{"id": "33542161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33542161", "title": "Aluminium dross recycling", "text": "Aluminium dross recycling\n\nAluminium dross, a byproduct of the aluminium smelting process, can be mechanically recycled to separate the residual aluminium metal from the aluminium oxide.\n\nThe mechanical process of recycling does not use any toxic chemicals previously used in the process of extracting the valuable aluminium in the dross.\n\nHot dross processing system whereby the majority of metal is recovered without chemically reducing the aluminium oxides. The dross is first crushed then separated into aluminium metal rich particles and aluminium oxide rich particles based on density. The metal rich particles are then melted in a furnace to remove the remaining oxide particles.\n\nRecycling aluminium dross mechanically is an environmentally sensitive method, and is not toxic. This is completely different from how aluminium metal used to be extracted from dross using an array of hazardous chemicals which resulted in a concentrated highly toxic 'salt cake' residue.\n\nAn operating aluminium dross recycling plant (news coverage) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_z8jlDgdCU\n\nA variety of products can be made from the residual aluminium dross after it is recycled into aluminium oxide. See more information on aluminium oxide. Aluminium oxide has a variety of industrial uses which includes being used in paint, dye, concrete, explosives, and fertilizer.\n\nAluminium dross recycling is a completely different process to strictly aluminium recycling. Aluminium recycling is where pure aluminium metal products (previously used in another form) are re-melted into aluminium ingots and then re-used to new aluminium products. While aluminium dross recycling is where the dross, a byproduct of the smelting process in the creation of aluminium from bauxite, can be mechanically recycled thus separating the residual aluminium metal from the aluminium oxide.\n"}
{"id": "532199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532199", "title": "Arousal", "text": "Arousal\n\nArousal is the physiological and psychological state of being awoken or of sense organs stimulated to a point of perception. It involves activation of the ascending reticular activating system (ARAS) in the brain, which mediates wakefulness, the autonomic nervous system, and the endocrine system, leading to increased heart rate and blood pressure and a condition of sensory alertness, mobility, and readiness to respond.\n\nArousal is mediated by several different neural systems. Wakefulness is regulated by the ARAS, which is composed of projections from five major neurotransmitter systems that originate in the brainstem and form connections extending throughout the cortex; activity within the ARAS is regulated by neurons that release the neurotransmitters acetylcholine, norepinephrine, dopamine, histamine, and serotonin. Activation of these neurons produces an increase in cortical activity and subsequently alertness.\n\nArousal is important in regulating consciousness, attention, alertness, and information processing. It is crucial for motivating certain behaviours, such as mobility, the pursuit of nutrition, the fight-or-flight response and sexual activity (the arousal phase of Masters and Johnson's human sexual response cycle). It is also important in emotion and has been included in theories such as the James-Lange theory of emotion. According to Hans Eysenck, differences in baseline arousal level lead people to be extraverts or introverts.\n\nThe Yerkes-Dodson law states that an optimal level of arousal for performance exists, and too little or too much arousal can adversely affect task performance. One interpretation of the Yerkes-Dodson Law is the Easterbrook cue-utilisation hypothesis. Easterbrook states that an increase of arousal decreases the number of cues that can be used.\n\nWakefulness is regulated by the ascending reticular activating system, which is composed of five major neurotransmitter systems – the acetylcholine, norepinephrine, dopamine, histamine, and serotonin systems – that originate in the brainstem and form connections which extend throughout the cerebral cortex. When stimulated, these systems produce cortical activity and alertness.\n\nThe noradrenergic system is a bundle of axons that originate in the locus coeruleus and ascends up into the neocortex, limbic system, and basal forebrain. Most of the neurons are projected to the posterior cortex which is important with sensory information, and alertness. The activation of the locus coeruleus and release of norepinephrine causes wakefulness and increases vigilance. The neurons that project into the basal forebrain impact cholinergic neurons that results in a flood of acetylcholine into the cerebral cortex.\n\nThe acetylcholinergic system has its neurons located in the pons and in the basal forebrain. Stimulation of these neurons result in cortical activity, shown from EEG records, and alertness. All of the other four neurotransmitters play a role in activating the acetylcholine neurons.\n\nAnother arousal system, the dopaminergic system, releases dopamine produced by the substantia nigra. The neurons arise in the ventral tegmental area in the midbrain, and projects to the nucleus accumbens, the striatum forebrain, limbic system, and prefrontal cortex. The limbic system is important for control of mood, and the nucleus accumbens signal excitement and arousal. The path terminating in the prefrontal cortex is important in regulating motor movements, especially reward oriented movements.\n\nThe serotonergic system has almost all of its serotonergic neurons originating in the raphe nuclei. This system projects to the limbic system and the prefrontal cortex. Stimulation of these axons and release of serotonin causes cortical arousal and impacts locomotion and mood.\n\nThe neurons of the histamergenic system are in the tuberomammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus. These neurons send pathways to the cerebral cortex, thalamus, and the basal forebrain, where they stimulate the release of acetylcholine into the cerebral cortex.\n\nAll of these systems are linked and show similar redundancy. The pathways described are ascending pathways, but there also arousal pathways that descend. One example is the ventrolateral preoptic area, which release GABA reuptake inhibitors, which interrupt wakefulness and arousal. Neurotransmitters of the arousal system, such as acetylcholine and norepinephrine, work to inhibit the ventrolateral preoptic area.\n\nArousal is important in regulating consciousness, attention, and information processing. It is crucial for motivating certain behaviors, such as mobility, the pursuit of nutrition, the fight-or-flight response and sexual activity (see Masters and Johnson's human sexual response cycle, where it is known as the \"arousal phase\"). Arousal is also an essential element in many influential theories of emotion, such as the James-Lange theory of emotion or the Circumplex Model. According to Hans Eysenck, differences in baseline arousal level lead people to be either extraverts or introverts. Later research suggests that extroverts and introverts likely have different \"arousability\". Their baseline arousal level is the same, but the response to stimulation is different.\n\nThe Yerkes–Dodson law states that there is a relationship between arousal and task performance, essentially arguing that there is an optimal level of arousal for performance, and too little or too much arousal can adversely affect task performance. One interpretation of the Yerkes–Dodson law is the Easterbrook cue-utilisation theory. It predicted that high levels of arousal will lead to attention narrowing, during which the range of cues from the stimulus and the environment decreases. According to this hypothesis, attention will be focused primarily on the arousing details (cues) of the stimulus, so that information central to the source of the emotional arousal will be encoded while peripheral details will not.\n\nIn positive psychology, arousal is described as a response to a difficult challenge for which the subject has moderate skills.\n\nEysenck's theory of arousal describes the different natural frequency or arousal states of the brains of people who are introverted versus people who are extroverted. The theory states that the brains of extroverts are naturally less stimulated, so these types have a predisposition to seek out situations and partake in behaviors that will stimulate arousal. Whereas extroverts are naturally under-stimulated and therefore actively engage in arousing situations, introverts are naturally over-stimulated and therefore avoid intense arousal. Campbell and Hawley (1982) studied the differences in introverts versus extroverts responses to particular work environments in the library. The study found that introverts were more likely to choose quiet areas with minimal to no noise or people. Extroverts were more likely to choose areas with much activity with more noise and people. Daoussiss and McKelvie's (1986) research showed that introverts performed worse on memory tasks when they were in the presence of music compared to silence. Extroverts were less affected by the presence of music. Similarly, Belojevic, Slepcevic and Jokovljevic (2001) found that introverts had more concentration problems and fatigue in their mental processing when work was coupled with external noise or distracting factors. The level of arousal surrounding the individuals greatly affected their ability to perform tasks and behaviors, with the introverts being more affected than the extroverts, because of each's naturally high and low levels of stimulation, respectively.\n\nNeuroticism or emotional instability and extroversion are two factors of the Big Five Personality Index. These two dimensions of personality describe how a person deals with anxiety-provoking or emotional stimuli as well as how a person behaves and responds to relevant and irrelevant external stimuli in their environment. Neurotics experience tense arousal which is characterized by tension and nervousness. Extroverts experience high energetic arousal which is characterized by vigor and energy. Gray (1981) claimed that extroverts have a higher sensitivity to reward signals than to punishment in comparison to introverts. Reward signals aim to raise the energy levels. Therefore, extroverts typically have a higher energetic arousal because of their greater response to rewards.\n\nHippocrates theorized that there are four personality types: choleric, melancholic, sanguine, and phlegmatic.\nPut in terms of the five factor level of personality, choleric people are high in neuroticism and high in extraversion. The choleric react immediately, and the arousal is strong, lasting, and can easily create new excitement about similar situations, ideas, or impressions. Melancholic people are high in neuroticism and low in extraversion (or more introverted). The melancholic are slow to react and it takes time for an impression to be made upon them if any is made at all. However, when aroused by something, melancholics have a deeper and longer lasting reaction, especially when exposed to similar experiences. Sanguine people are low in neuroticism (or more emotionally stable) and high in extraversion. The sanguine are quickly aroused and excited, like the cholerics, but unlike the cholerics, their arousal is shallow, superficial, and shortly leaves them as quickly as it developed. Phlegmatic people are low in neuroticism and low in extraversion. The phlegmatic are slower to react and the arousal is fleeting.\n\nThe contrasts in the different temperaments come from individuals variations in a person's brain stem, limbic system, and thalamocortical arousal system. These changes are observed by electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings which monitor brain activity. Limbic system activation is typically linked to neuroticism, with high activation showing high neuroticism. Cortical arousal is associated with introversion–extraversion differences, with high arousal associated with introversion. Both the limbic system and the thalamocortical arousal system are influenced by the brainstem activation. Robinson's study (1982) concluded that melancholic types had the greatest natural frequencies, or a \"predominance of excitation\", meaning that melancholics (who are characterized by introversion) have a higher internal level of arousal. Sanguine people (or those with high extraversion and low neuroticism) had the lowest overall levels of internal arousal, or a \"predominance of inhibition\". Melancholics also had the highest overall thalamocortical excitation, whereas cholerics (those with high extraversion and high neuroticism) had the lowest intrinsic thalamocortical excitation.\n\nThe differences in the internal system levels is the evidence that Eysenck used to explain the differences between the introverted and the extroverted. Ivan Pavlov, the founder of classical conditioning, also partook in temperament studies with animals. Pavlov's findings with animals are consistent with Eysenck's conclusions. In his studies, melancholics produced an inhibitory response to all external stimuli, which holds true that melancholics shut out outside arousal, because they are deeply internally aroused. Pavlov found that cholerics responded to stimuli with aggression and excitement whereas melancholics became depressed and unresponsive. The high neuroticism which characterizes both melancholics and cholerics manifested itself differently in the two types because of the different levels of internal arousal they had.\n\nThe Cannon–Bard theory is a theory of undifferentiated arousal, where the physical and emotional states occur at the same time in response to an event. This theory states that an emotionally provoking event results in both the physiological arousal and the emotion occurring concurrently. For example, if a person's dear family member dies, a potential physiological response would be tears falling down the person's face and their throat feeling dry; they are \"sad\". The Cannon–Bard theory states that the tears and the sadness both happen at the same time. The process goes: event (family member dies) → physiological arousal (tears) and emotion (sadness) simultaneously. The fact that people can experience different emotions when they have the same pattern of physiological arousal is one argument in favor of the Cannon-Bard theory. For example, a person may have a heart racing and rapid breathing when they are angry or afraid. Even though not completely in accordance with the theory, it is taken as one piece of evidence in favor of the Cannon–Bard theory that physiological reactions sometimes happen more slowly than experiences of emotion. For example, if you are in the forest or woods, a sudden sound can create an immediate response of fear, while the physical symptoms of fear follow that feeling, and do not precede it.\n\nThe James–Lange theory describes how emotion is caused by the bodily changes which come from the perception of the emotionally arousing experience or environment. This theory states that events cause the autonomic nervous system to induce physiological arousal, characterized by muscular tension, heart rate increases, perspiration, dryness of mouth, tears, etc. According to James and Lange, the emotion comes as a result of the physiological arousal. The bodily feeling as a reaction to the situation actually is the emotion. For example, if someone just deeply insulted a person and their family, the person's fists might ball up and they might begin to perspire and become tense all around. The person feels that their fists are balled and that they are tense. The person then realizes that they are angry. The process here is: event (insult) --> physiological arousal (balled fists, sweat, tension) --> interpretation (\"I have balled fists, and tension\") --> emotion (anger: \"I am angry\"). This type of theory emphasizes the physiological arousal as the key, in that the cognitive processes alone would not be sufficient evidence of an emotion.\n\nThe Schachter–Singer two-factor theory or the cognitive labeling theory takes into account both the physiological arousal and the cognitive processes that respond to an emotion-provoking situation. Schachter and Singer's theory states that an emotional state is the product of the physiological arousal and the cognition regarding the state of arousal. Thus, cognition determines how the physical response is labeled; for example, as \"anger\", \"joy\", or \"fear\". In this theory, emotion is seen as a product of the interaction between the state of arousal and how one's thought processes appraise the current situation. The physiological arousal does not provide the label for the emotion; cognition does. For example, if a person is being pursued by a serial killer, the person will likely be sweating and their heart will be racing, which is their physiological state. The person's cognitive label will come from assessing their quickly beating heart and sweat as \"fear\". Then they will feel the emotion of \"fear\", but only after it has been established through cognition. The process is: the event (serial killer chasing the person) --> physiological arousal (sweat, heart racing) --> cognitive label (reasoning; \"this is fear\") --> emotion (fear).\n\nArousal is involved in the detection, retention, and retrieval of information in the memory process. Emotionally arousing information can lead to better memory encoding, therefore influencing better retention and retrieval of information. Arousal is related to selective attention during the encoding process by showing that people are more subject to encode arousing information than neutral information. The selectivity of encoding arousing stimuli produces better long-term memory results than the encoding of neutral stimuli. In other words, the retention and accumulation of information is strengthened when exposed to arousing events or information. Arousing information is also retrieved or remembered more vividly and accurately.\n\nAlthough arousal improves memory under most circumstances, there are some considerations. Arousal at learning is associated more with long-term recall and retrieval of information than short-term recall of information. For example, one study found that people could remember arousing words better after one week of learning them than merely two minutes after learning them. Another study found that arousal affects the memory of people in different ways. Eysenck found an association between memory and the arousal of introverts versus extroverts. Higher levels of arousal increased the amount of words retrieved by extroverts and decreased the amount of words retrieved by introverts.\n\nA person's level of arousal when introduced to stimuli can be indicative of his or her preferences. One study found that familiar stimuli are often preferred to unfamiliar stimuli. The findings suggested that the exposure to unfamiliar stimuli was correlated to avoidance behaviors. The unfamiliar stimuli may lead to increased arousal and increased avoidance behaviors.\n\nOn the contrary, increased arousal can increase approach behaviors as well. People are said to make decisions based on their emotional states. They choose specific options that lead to more favorable emotional states. When a person is aroused, he or she may find a wider range of events appealing and view decisions as more salient, specifically influencing approach-avoidance conflict. The state of arousal might lead a person to view a decision more positively than he or she would have in a less aroused state.\n\nThe reversal theory accounts for the preference of either high or low arousal in different situations. Both forms of arousal can be pleasant or unpleasant, depending on a person's moods and goals at a specific time. Wundt's and Berlyne's hedonic curve differ from this theory. Both theorists explain a person's arousal potential in terms of his or her hedonic tone. These individual differences in arousal demonstrate Eysenck's theory that extroverts prefer increased stimulation and arousal, whereas introverts prefer lower stimulation and arousal.\n\nAltered experiences of arousal are associated with both anxiety and depression.\n\nDepression can influence a person's level of arousal by interfering with the right hemisphere's functioning. Arousal in women has been shown to be slowed in the left visual field due to depression, indicating the influence of the right hemisphere.\n\nArousal and anxiety have a different relationship than arousal and depression. People who suffer from anxiety disorders tend to have abnormal and amplified perceptions of arousal. The distorted perceptions of arousal then create fear and distorted perceptions of the self. For example, a person may believe that he or she will get sick from being so nervous about taking an exam. The fear of the arousal of nervousness and how people will perceive this arousal will then contribute to levels of anxiety.\n\nThis is caused by withdrawal from alcohol or barbiturates, acute encephalitis, head trauma resulting in coma, partial seizures in epilepsy, metabolic disorders of electrolyte imbalance, Intra-cranial space- occupying lesions, Alzheimer's disease, rabies, hemispheric lesions in stroke and multiple sclerosis.\n\nAnatomically this is a disorder of the limbic system, hypothalamus, temporal lobes, amygdala and frontal lobes. It is not to be confused with mania.\n\nThe effects of physiological arousal on cognition cause individuals to be active, attentive, or excited.\nThe term \"physiological\" refers to physiology and concerns the normal functioning of an organism. Physiological arousal refers to features of arousal reflected by physiological reactions, such as escalations in blood pressure and rate of respiration and lessened activity of the gastrointestinal system.\nThese terms are what allow for the effects physiological arousal has on cognition itself.\n\nCognition is internal mental representations best characterized as thoughts and ideas- resulting from and involved in multiple mental processes and operations including perception, reasoning, memory, intuition, judgement and decision making. While cognition is not directly observable, it is still amenable to study using the scientific method. Cognition is also something that plays a fundamental role in determining behavior. Goes into explaining cognitive functions and how they are internal and inferred from behavior using measure like accuracy in performing a task like recalling a list of words of the time taken to find some word on a page of text.\nThe study of cognitive functions derive from the information processing approach which argues that these functions that these functions involve operations occurring at various processing stages is typically based on a model of cognitive function of interest.\n\nPhysiological comes from physiology which is the study of the functioning of living organisms, animal or plant, and of the functioning of their constituent tissues or cells. This word was first used by the Greeks to describe a philosophical inquiry into the nature of things. The use of the term with specific reference to vital activities of healthy humans, which began in the 16th century, also applicable to many current aspects of physiology.\nPhysiological responses to fight or flight:\nWhen the body is initially challenged by a stressor it responds with physiological activation (also known as arousal) of a defense system to deal with the immediate stressor. \"If a stimulus is perceived as a threat, a more intense and prolonged discharge of the locus ceruleus which is the major nor adrenergic nucleus of the brain, giving rise to fibers innervating extensive areas throughout the neuraxis. Also referred as the Neuroaxis, is the axis in the central nervous system. activates the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system. (Thase & Howland 1995)\" (psychologistworld.org, n.d.) The activation of the sympathetic nervous system leads to the release of non-epinephrine from nerve endings acting on the heart, blood vessels, respiratory centers, and other sites. The ensuing physiological changes constitute a major part of the acute stress response. Which can often lead to as the fight or flight response.\nAnticipated behaviors are actions that are foreseen or predicted to happen in a specific situation due to different environmental factors. Furthermore, they are decided by one’s past experiences and knowledge.\n\nAnticipated behaviors examples\n-Someone sitting in the same seat every day during class.\n-Someone reaching their hand out towards you would indicate they are wanting to shake hands.\n- While driving a car you would anticipate people braking therefore you would brake as well.\nWhen a loud unexpected noise is created you are startled and flinch.\n- When a person sneezes you say “bless you”.\n\nA real life example of cognition is used whenever decision making is involved for example, a real life scenario of a cognitive decision would be when a traffic light is changing from green to yellow. One would either make a cognitive decision to run through the yellow light in hopes you could clear the intersection before the light turned red. However, one could make a different cognitive decision to stop when they see the yellow light to not run the light before it turned red.\n\nA real life example of the effects of physiological arousal on cognition is when you’re walking through the woods and you notice a rattlesnake in front of the walkway on the ground. You would feel alarmed and scared (physiological arousal).Your past experience and knowledge of poisonous snakes and dangerous predators provides the (cognition) of the situation. Based on your analysis of your position you label your arousal as fear.\nFear is explained to be an emotion that one might expect with alarm, it is also known as something to be afraid of or the feelings of apprehensiveness. Fear works when one senses danger, the brain reacts instantly, sending signals that activate the nervous system. This causes physical responses, such as a faster heartbeat, rapid breathing, and an increase in blood pressure. Blood pumps to muscle groups to prepare the body for physical action like running or fighting. Skin sweats to keep the body cool. Some people might notice sensations in the stomach, head, chest, legs, or hands. These physical sensations of fear can be mild or strong.\nA study done by Joan Vickers and Mark Williams analyzed how a group of elite biathlon shooters handled an experimental task. The goal was to determine why there might be a failure to perform in high pressure situations. Difficulties come about when trying to test performance pressure, physiological workload, anxiety, and visual attention in a controlled setting. Which is why they decided to test these elite biathlon shooters, due to the easy ability to stimulate the controlled experiment. In the low pressure stimulation the subjects were only told that the purpose of the test was to simply provide feedback and the fixation on the target at different power output levels. In the high pressure situation the shorter were told that the national team coach was going to observe the shooters, and their shooting percentages would be used to make the national team selections. Both groups were told that prizes would be rewarded to the most accurate shooters. To test physiological arousal that was being used, Vickers and Williams measured each shooters heart rate as well as the perceived exertion. Trying to determine if the failure to perform to whatever level of skill or ability the person has at the time, also known as choking; was indeed a factor in this test. Physiological arousal was measured and recorded through the athlete's heart rate and rate of perceived exertion. The findings showed that the biathletes developed the ability to decelerate their heart rate just before they shoot, most only shoot when HR is 80% or lower. Whereas the test was designed for shots to be taken with a heart rate 100% or above. The expectations were for the low pressure and high pressure groups to be more prone to choking compared to those who were able to maintain their heart rates. The findings showed exactly what was expected, the only exception was that the pressure applied did not necessarily have much of an effect. While it was clear that high pressure stimulations did appear far more anxious than those of low pressure stimulations.\n\nProblem solving is the cognitive process that someone uses to achieve a goal whenever a solution cannot be determined by others.\n\nFor example, you are with your buddies on a trip and get a flat tire. Everyone looks around nervously because nobody knows how to change a flat. But then you remember that you took an automotive class in college where you learned to change flat tires. You change the tire and solve the issue with your cognitive problem solving. Cognitively, the utilization of logical analysis and problem solving has been associated with higher levels of life satisfaction, better health, and lower depression in caregivers. A realistic appraisal and acceptance of the difficult situation is healthy and allows the caregiver to live his or her own life while accommodating the needs of the recipient. Less effective cognitive coping styles include avoidant-evasive, regressive, and an increased use of wishfulness and fantasizing by the caregiver, all of which have been related to higher levels of care burden (Hayley et al., 1987; Quayhagen & Quayhagen, 1988).\n\nCognitive appraisal is the stress perceived as imbalance between demands place on the individual and the individual and the individual's resources to cope. Lazarus argued that the experience of stress differs significantly between individuals depending on how they interpret an event and the outcome of a specific sequence of thinking patterns called appraisals.\n\nIt also refers to the personal interpretation of a situation that ultimately influences the extent to which the situation is perceived as stressful, process of assessing whether a situation or event threatens our well being, whether there are sufficient personal resources available for coping with the demand of the situation of whether our strategy for dealing with the situation is effective.\n\nThe three parts that it can be divided into are primary appraisal, secondary appraisal, and reappraisal. Primary Appraisal is an assessment of how significant an event is for a person, including whether it is a threat or opportunity, also including that no heightened physiological arousal occurs it means no stress will either. Secondary Appraisal considers one's ability to cope or take advantage of the situation. Cognitive Appraisal is a personal interpretation of a situation and possible reactions to it.\n\nTheir secondary appraisal determines what the person will do, and involves their perception of their options and resources.\n\nThese appraisals can be accurate or inaccurate, and helping a person arrive at more apt appraisals is a goal of some modes of cognitive behavioral therapy, This is a psychosocial intervention that is the most widely used evidence based practice for improving mental health guided by empirical research cognitive behavioral therapy focuses on the development of personal coping strategies that target solving current problems and changing unhelpful patterns in cognition, behaviors, and emotional regulation. Also known as regulation of emotion; is the ability to respond to the ongoing demands of experience with the range of emotions in a manner that is socially tolerable and sufficiently flexible to permit spontaneous reactions as well as the ability to delay spontaneous reactions as needed. It can also be defined as Extrinsic and Intrinsic processes responsible for monitoring, evaluating, and modifying emotional reactions. Emotional self-regulation belongs to the broader set of emotion-regulation processes, which includes the regulations of one's own feelings and the regulations of other people's feelings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "195552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195552", "title": "Artificial consciousness", "text": "Artificial consciousness\n\nArtificial consciousness (AC), also known as machine consciousness (MC) or synthetic consciousness (; ), is a field related to artificial intelligence and cognitive robotics. The aim of the theory of artificial consciousness is to \"Define that which would have to be synthesized were consciousness to be found in an engineered artifact\" .\n\nNeuroscience hypothesizes that consciousness is generated by the interoperation of various parts of the brain, called the neural correlates of consciousness or NCC, though there are challenges to that perspective. Proponents of AC believe it is possible to construct systems (e.g., computer systems) that can emulate this NCC interoperation.\n\nArtificial consciousness concepts are also pondered in the philosophy of artificial intelligence through questions about mind, consciousness, and mental states.\n\nAs there are many hypothesized types of consciousness, there are many potential implementations of artificial consciousness. In the philosophical literature, perhaps the most common taxonomy of consciousness is into \"access\" and \"phenomenal\" variants. Access consciousness concerns those aspects of experience that can be apprehended, while phenomenal consciousness concerns those aspects of experience that seemingly cannot be apprehended, instead being characterized qualitatively in terms of “raw feels”, “what it is like” or qualia ().\n\nType-identity theorists and other skeptics hold the view that consciousness can only be realized in particular physical systems because consciousness has properties that necessarily depend on physical constitution (; ).\n\nIn his article \"Artificial Consciousness: Utopia or Real Possibility\" Giorgio Buttazzo says that despite our current technology's ability to simulate autonomy, \"Working in a fully automated mode, they [the computers] cannot exhibit creativity, emotions, or free will. A computer, like a washing machine, is a slave operated by its components.\"\n\nFor other theorists (e.g., functionalists), who define mental states in terms of causal roles, any system that can instantiate the same pattern of causal roles, regardless of physical constitution, will instantiate the same mental states, including consciousness ().\n\nOne of the most explicit arguments for the plausibility of AC comes from David Chalmers. His proposal, found within his article , is roughly that the right kinds of computations are sufficient for the possession of a conscious mind. In the outline, he defends his claim thus: Computers perform computations. Computations can capture other systems' abstract causal organization.\n\nThe most controversial part of Chalmers' proposal is that mental properties are \"organizationally invariant\". Mental properties are of two kinds, psychological and phenomenological. Psychological properties, such as belief and perception, are those that are \"characterized by their causal role\". He adverts to the work of and in claiming that \"[s]ystems with the same causal topology…will share their psychological properties\".\n\nPhenomenological properties are not prima facie definable in terms of their causal roles. Establishing that phenomenological properties are amenable to individuation by causal role therefore requires argument. Chalmers provides his Dancing Qualia Argument for this purpose.\n\nChalmers begins by assuming that agents with identical causal organizations could have different experiences. He then asks us to conceive of changing one agent into the other by the replacement of parts (neural parts replaced by silicon, say) while preserving its causal organization. Ex hypothesi, the experience of the agent under transformation would change (as the parts were replaced), but there would be no change in causal topology and therefore no means whereby the agent could \"notice\" the shift in experience.\n\nCritics of AC object that Chalmers begs the question in assuming that all mental properties and external connections are sufficiently captured by abstract causal organization.\n\nIf it were suspected that a particular machine was conscious, its rights would be an ethical issue that would need to be assessed (e.g. what rights it would have under law). For example, a conscious computer that was owned and used as a tool or central computer of a building or large machine is a particular ambiguity. Should laws be made for such a case, consciousness would also require a legal definition (for example a machine's ability to experience pleasure or pain, known as sentience). Because artificial consciousness is still largely a theoretical subject, such ethics have not been discussed or developed to a great extent, though it has often been a theme in fiction (see below).\n\nThe rules for the 2003 Loebner Prize competition explicitly addressed the question of robot rights:\n61. If, in any given year, a publicly available open source Entry entered by the University of Surrey or the Cambridge Center wins the Silver Medal or the Gold Medal, then the Medal and the Cash Award will be awarded to the body responsible for the development of that Entry. If no such body can be identified, or if there is disagreement among two or more claimants, the Medal and the Cash Award will be held in trust \"until such time as the Entry may legally possess, either in the United States of America or in the venue of the contest, the Cash Award and Gold Medal in its own right\".\n\nThere are various aspects of consciousness generally deemed necessary for a machine to be artificially conscious. A variety of functions in which consciousness plays a role were suggested by Bernard Baars () and others. The functions of consciousness suggested by Bernard Baars are Definition and Context Setting, Adaptation and Learning, Editing, Flagging and Debugging, Recruiting and Control, Prioritizing and Access-Control, Decision-making or Executive Function, Analogy-forming Function, Metacognitive and Self-monitoring Function, and Autoprogramming and Self-maintenance Function. Igor Aleksander suggested 12 principles for artificial consciousness () and these are: The Brain is a State Machine, Inner Neuron Partitioning, Conscious and Unconscious States, Perceptual Learning and Memory, Prediction, The Awareness of Self, Representation of Meaning, Learning Utterances, Learning Language, Will, Instinct, and Emotion. The aim of AC is to define whether and how these and other aspects of consciousness can be synthesized in an engineered artifact such as a digital computer. This list is not exhaustive; there are many others not covered.\n\nAwareness could be one required aspect, but there are many problems with the exact definition of \"awareness\". The results of the experiments of neuroscanning on monkeys suggest that a process, not only a state or object, activates neurons. Awareness includes creating and testing alternative models of each process based on the information received through the senses or imagined, and is also useful for making predictions. Such modeling needs a lot of flexibility. Creating such a model includes modeling of the physical world, modeling of one's own internal states and processes, and modeling of other conscious entities.\n\nThere are at least three types of awareness: agency awareness, goal awareness, and sensorimotor awareness, which may also be conscious or not. For example, in agency awareness you may be aware that you performed a certain action yesterday, but are not now conscious of it. In goal awareness you may be aware that you must search for a lost object, but are not now conscious of it. In sensorimotor awareness, you may be aware that your hand is resting on an object, but are not now conscious of it.\n\nBecause objects of awareness are often conscious, the distinction between awareness and consciousness is frequently blurred or they are used as synonyms.\n\nConscious events interact with memory systems in learning, rehearsal, and retrieval.\nThe IDA model elucidates the role of consciousness in the updating of perceptual memory, transient episodic memory, and procedural memory. Transient episodic and declarative memories have distributed representations in IDA, there is evidence that this is also the case in the nervous system. In IDA, these two memories are implemented computationally using a modified version of Kanerva’s Sparse distributed memory architecture.\n\nLearning is also considered necessary for AC. By Bernard Baars, conscious experience is needed to represent and adapt to novel and significant events (). By Axel Cleeremans and Luis Jiménez, learning is defined as \"a set of philogenetically advanced adaptation processes that critically depend on an evolved sensitivity to subjective experience so as to enable agents to afford flexible control over their actions in complex, unpredictable environments\" ().\n\nThe ability to predict (or anticipate) foreseeable events is considered important for AC by Igor Aleksander. The emergentist multiple drafts principle proposed by Daniel Dennett in \"Consciousness Explained\" may be useful for prediction: it involves the evaluation and selection of the most appropriate \"draft\" to fit the current environment. Anticipation includes prediction of consequences of one's own proposed actions and prediction of consequences of probable actions by other entities.\n\nRelationships between real world states are mirrored in the state structure of a conscious organism enabling the organism to predict events. An artificially conscious machine should be able to anticipate events correctly in order to be ready to respond to them when they occur or to take preemptive action to avert anticipated events. The implication here is that the machine needs flexible, real-time components that build spatial, dynamic, statistical, functional, and cause-effect models of the real world and predicted worlds, making it possible to demonstrate that it possesses artificial consciousness in the present and future and not only in the past. In order to do this, a conscious machine should make coherent predictions and contingency plans, not only in worlds with fixed rules like a chess board, but also for novel environments that may change, to be executed only when appropriate to simulate and control the real world.\n\nSubjective experiences or qualia are widely considered to be \"the\" hard problem of consciousness. Indeed, it is held to pose a challenge to physicalism, let alone computationalism. On the other hand, there are problems in other fields of science which limit that which we can observe, such as the uncertainty principle in physics, which have not made the research in these fields of science impossible.\n\nThe term \"cognitive architecture\" may refer to a theory about the structure of the human mind, or any portion or function thereof, including consciousness. In another context, a cognitive architecture implements the theory on computers. An example is \"QuBIC: Quantum and Bio-inspired Cognitive Architecture for Machine Consciousness\". One of the main goals of a cognitive architecture is to summarize the various results of cognitive psychology in a comprehensive computer model. However, the results need to be in a formalized form so they can be the basis of a computer program. Also, the role of cognitive architecture is for the A.I. to clearly structure, build, and implement it's thought process.\n\nStan Franklin (1995, 2003) defines an autonomous agent as possessing functional consciousness when it is capable of several of the functions of consciousness as identified by Bernard Baars' Global Workspace Theory . His brain child IDA (Intelligent Distribution Agent) is a software implementation of GWT, which makes it functionally conscious by definition. IDA's task is to negotiate new assignments for sailors in the US Navy after they end a tour of duty, by matching each individual's skills and preferences with the Navy's needs. IDA interacts with Navy databases and communicates with the sailors via natural language e-mail dialog while obeying a large set of Navy policies. The IDA computational model was developed during 1996–2001 at Stan Franklin's \"Conscious\" Software Research Group at the University of Memphis. It \"consists of approximately a quarter-million lines of Java code, and almost completely consumes the resources of a 2001 high-end workstation.\" It relies heavily on \"codelets\", which are \"special purpose, relatively independent, mini-agent[s] typically implemented as a small piece of code running as a separate thread.\" In IDA's top-down architecture, high-level cognitive functions are explicitly modeled (see and for details). While IDA is functionally conscious by definition, Franklin does \"not attribute phenomenal consciousness to his own 'conscious' software agent, IDA, in spite of her many human-like behaviours. This in spite of watching several US Navy detailers repeatedly nodding their heads saying 'Yes, that's how I do it' while watching IDA's internal and external actions as she performs her task.\"\n\nCLARION posits a two-level representation that explains the distinction between conscious and unconscious mental processes.\n\nCLARION has been successful in accounting for a variety of psychological data. A number of well-known skill learning tasks have been simulated using CLARION that span the spectrum ranging from simple reactive skills to complex cognitive skills. The tasks include serial reaction time (SRT) tasks, artificial grammar learning (AGL) tasks, process control (PC) tasks, the categorical inference (CI) task, the alphabetical arithmetic (AA) task, and the Tower of Hanoi (TOH) task . Among them, SRT, AGL, and PC are typical implicit learning tasks, very much relevant to the issue of consciousness as they operationalized the notion of consciousness in the context of psychological experiments.\n\nBen Goertzel is pursuing an embodied AGI through the open-source OpenCog project. Current code includes embodied virtual pets capable of learning simple English-language commands, as well as integration with real-world robotics, being done at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.\n\nPentti considers classical rule-based computing inadequate for achieving AC: \"the brain is definitely not a computer. Thinking is not an execution of programmed strings of commands. The brain is not a numerical calculator either. We do not think by numbers.\" Rather than trying to achieve mind and consciousness by identifying and implementing their underlying computational rules, Haikonen proposes \"a special cognitive architecture to reproduce the processes of perception, inner imagery, inner speech, pain, pleasure, emotions and the cognitive functions behind these. This bottom-up architecture would produce higher-level functions by the power of the elementary processing units, the artificial neurons, without algorithms or programs\". Haikonen believes that, when implemented with sufficient complexity, this architecture will develop consciousness, which he considers to be \"a style and way of operation, characterized by distributed signal representation, perception process, cross-modality reporting and availability for retrospection.\" Haikonen is not alone in this process view of consciousness, or the view that AC will spontaneously emerge in autonomous agents that have a suitable neuro-inspired architecture of complexity; these are shared by many, e.g. and . A low-complexity implementation of the architecture proposed by was reportedly not capable of AC, but did exhibit emotions as expected. See for a comprehensive introduction to Haikonen's cognitive architecture. An updated account of Haikonen's architecture, along with a summary of his philosophical views, is given in .\n\nMurray Shanahan describes a cognitive architecture that combines Baars's idea of a global workspace with a mechanism for internal simulation (\"imagination\") . For discussions of Shanahan's architecture, see and and Chapter 20 of .\n\nSelf-awareness in robots is being investigated by Junichi Takeno at Meiji University in Japan. Takeno is asserting that he has developed a robot capable of discriminating between a self-image in a mirror and any other having an identical image to it, and this claim has already been reviewed . Takeno asserts that he first contrived the computational module called a MoNAD, which has a self-aware function, and he then constructed the artificial consciousness system by formulating the relationships between emotions, feelings and reason by connecting the modules in a hierarchy (Igarashi, Takeno 2007). Takeno completed a mirror image cognition experiment using a robot equipped with the MoNAD system. Takeno proposed the Self-Body Theory stating that \"humans feel that their own mirror image is closer to themselves than an actual part of themselves.\" The most important point in developing artificial consciousness or clarifying human consciousness is the development of a function of self awareness, and he claims that he has demonstrated physical and mathematical evidence for this in his thesis. He also demonstrated that robots can study episodes in memory where the emotions were stimulated and use this experience to take predictive actions to prevent the recurrence of unpleasant emotions (Torigoe, Takeno 2009).\n\nIgor Aleksander, emeritus professor of Neural Systems Engineering at Imperial College, has extensively researched artificial neural networks and claims in his book \"Impossible Minds: My Neurons, My Consciousness\" that the principles for creating a conscious machine already exist but that it would take forty years to train such a machine to understand language. Whether this is true remains to be demonstrated and the basic principle stated in \"Impossible Minds\"—that the brain is a neural state machine—is open to doubt.\n\nStephen Thaler proposed a possible connection between consciousness and creativity in his 1994 patent, called \"Device for the Autonomous Generation of Useful Information\" (DAGUI), or the so-called \"Creativity Machine\", in which computational critics govern the injection of synaptic noise and degradation into neural nets so as to induce false memories or confabulations that may qualify as potential ideas or strategies. He recruits this neural architecture and methodology to account for the subjective feel of consciousness, claiming that similar noise-driven neural assemblies within the brain invent dubious significance to overall cortical activity. Thaler's theory and the resulting patents in machine consciousness were inspired by experiments in which he internally disrupted trained neural nets so as to drive a succession of neural activation patterns that he likened to stream of consciousness.\n\nIn 2011, Michael Graziano and Sabine Kastler published a paper named \"Human consciousness and its relationship to social neuroscience: A novel hypothesis\" proposing a theory of consciousness as an attention schema. Graziano went on to publish an expanded discussion of this theory in his book \"Consciousness and the Social Brain\". This Attention Schema Theory of Consciousness, as he named it, proposes that the brain tracks attention to various sensory inputs by way of an attention schema, analogous to the well study body schema that tracks the spatial place of a person's body. This relates to artificial consciousness by proposing a specific mechanism of information handling, that produces what we allegedly experience and describe as consciousness, and which should be able to be duplicated by a machine using current technology. When the brain finds that person X is aware of thing Y, it is in effect modeling the state in which person X is applying an attentional enhancement to Y. In the attention schema theory, the same process can be applied to oneself. The brain tracks attention to various sensory inputs, and one's own awareness is a schematized model of one's attention. Graziano proposes specific locations in the brain for this process, and suggests that such awareness is a computed feature constructed by an expert system in the brain.\n\nThe most well-known method for testing machine intelligence is the Turing test. But when interpreted as only observational, this test contradicts the philosophy of science principles of theory dependence of observations. It also has been suggested that Alan Turing's recommendation of imitating not a human adult consciousness, but a human child consciousness, should be taken seriously.\n\nOther tests, such as ConsScale, test the presence of features inspired by biological systems, or measure the cognitive development of artificial systems.\n\nQualia, or phenomenological consciousness, is an inherently first-person phenomenon. Although various systems may display various signs of behavior correlated with functional consciousness, there is no conceivable way in which third-person tests can have access to first-person phenomenological features. Because of that, and because there is no empirical definition of consciousness, a test of presence of consciousness in AC may be impossible.\n\nIn 2014, Victor Argonov suggested a non-Turing test for machine consciousness based on machine's ability to produce philosophical judgments. He argues that a deterministic machine must be regarded as conscious if it is able to produce judgments on all problematic properties of consciousness (such as qualia or binding) having no innate (preloaded) philosophical knowledge on these issues, no philosophical discussions while learning, and no informational models of other creatures in its memory (such models may implicitly or explicitly contain knowledge about these creatures’ consciousness). However, this test can be used only to detect, but not refute the existence of consciousness. A positive result proves that machine is conscious but a negative result proves nothing. For example, absence of philosophical judgments may be caused by lack of the machine’s intellect, not by absence of consciousness.\n\nCharacters with artificial consciousness (or at least with personalities that imply they have consciousness), from works of fiction:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31338378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31338378", "title": "Boolean-valued", "text": "Boolean-valued\n\nBoolean-valued usually refers to:\n\n"}
{"id": "33944016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33944016", "title": "Canon (basic principle)", "text": "Canon (basic principle)\n\nThe concept of canon is very broad; in a general sense it refers to being a rule or a body of rules.\n\nThere are definitions that state it as: “the body of rules, principles, or standards accepted as axiomatic and universally binding in a field of study or art”. This can be related to such topics as literary canons or the canons of rhetoric, which is a topic within itself that describes the rules of giving a speech. There are five key principles, and when grouped together, are the principles set for giving speeches as seen with regard to Rhetoric. This is one such example of how the term canon is used in regard to rhetoric.\n\n"}
{"id": "14912231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14912231", "title": "Christianity and domestic violence", "text": "Christianity and domestic violence\n\nChristianity and domestic violence deals with the debate in Christian communities in relation to the recognition and response to domestic violence, which is complicated by a culture of silence and acceptance among abuse victims. There are some Bible verses that abusers use to justify discipline of their wives.\n\nChristian groups and authorities generally condemn domestic violence as inconsistent with the general Christian duty to love others and to the scriptural relationship between husband and wife.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, \"Men who abuse often use Ephesians 5:22, taken out of context, to justify their behavior, but the passage (v. 21-33) refers to the mutual submission of husband and wife out of love for Christ. Husbands should love their wives as they love their own body, as Christ loves the Church.\"\n\nSome Christian theologians, such as the Rev. Marie Fortune and Mary Pellauer, have raised the question of a close connection between patriarchal Christianity and domestic violence and abuse. Steven Tracy, author of \"Patriarchy and Domestic Violence\" writes: \"While patriarchy may not be the overarching cause of all abuse, it is an enormously significant factor, because in traditional patriarchy males have a disproportionate share of power... So while patriarchy is not the sole explanation for violence against women, we would expect that male headship would be distorted by insecure, unhealthy men to justify their domination and abuse of women.\"\n\nFew empirical studies have examined the relationship between religion and domestic violence, According to Dutton, no single factor explanation for wife assault was sufficient to explain the available data. A study by Dutton and Browning in the same year found that misogyny is correlated with only a minority of abusive male partners. Campbell's study in 1992 found no evidence of greater violence towards women in more patriarchal cultures. Pearson's study in 1997 observed \"Studies of male batterers have failed to confirm that these men are more conservative or sexist about marriage than nonviolent men\".\n\nIn \"Responding to Domestic Abuse,\" a report issued by the Church of England in 2006, suggests that patriarchy should be replaced rather than reinterpreted: \"Following the pattern of Christ means that patterns of domination and submission are being transformed in the mutuality of love, faithful care and sharing of burdens. 'Be subject to one another out of reverence for Christ'(Ephesians 5.21). Although strong patriarchal tendencies have persisted in Christianity, the example of Christ carries the seeds of their displacement by a more symmetrical and respectful model of male–female relations.\"\n\nBible verses are often used to justify domestic abuse, such as those that refer to male superiority and female submission. Others counter that the use of violence is a misinterpreted view of the male role. For instance, Eve (Genesis 2-3), is seen by some Christians to be disobedient to patriarchal God and man, and to many a generalized symbol of womanhood that must be submissive and subject to discipline, while others disagree with this interpretation.\n\nA subculture known as \"Christian domestic discipline\" (CDD) promotes spanking of wives by their husbands as a form of punishment. While its advocates rely on Biblical interpretations to support the practice, advocates for victims of domestic violence describe CDD as a form of abuse and controlling behavior. Others describe the practice as a simple sexual fetish and an outlet for sadomasochistic desires. Christan-conservative radio host Bryan Fischer said to the \"Huffington Post\" that it was a \"horrifying trendbizarre, twisted, unbiblical and un-Christian\"\n\nThere are a variety of responses by Christian leaders to how victims should handle abuse:\n\nA contributing factor to the disparity of responses to abuse is lack of training, many Christian seminaries had not educated future church leaders about how to manage violence against women. Once pastors began receiving training, and announced their participation in domestic violence educational programs, they immediately began receiving visits from women church members who had been subject to violence. The first Theological Education and Domestic Violence Conference, sponsored by the Center for the Prevention of Sexual and Domestic Violence, was held in 1985 to identify topics that should be covered in seminaries. First, church leaders will encounter sexual and domestic violence and they need to know what community resources are available. Secondly, they need to focus on ending the violence, rather than on keeping families together.\n\nThe American religious news-magazine \"Christianity Today\" has published articles lamenting U.S. churches for possibly making domestic abuse worse \"not in incidence, but in response\" due to inadequate understandings. In December 2017, academic W. Bradford Wilcox wrote for the publication, \"Domestic violence is still present in church-going homes... some local churches, clergy, and counselors fail to address abuse head-on for fear of breaking up a marriage.\" He also argued, \"Others steer clear of addressing the topic from the pulpit or in adult education for fear of broaching an uncomfortable subject. This silence around domestic violence has to end.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, when multiple programs were initiated to train church leaders about domestic violence, the response \"But no one ever comes to me with this problem\" often came up to frustrate efforts. Church leaders frequently believed that if no one reached out for assistance within their congregations that there was no problem for them to deal with; however, women often withheld discussing their problems over concern that it would not be handled appropriately. When women increasingly became pastors over the 20th century, many of them found that much of their time became devoted to handling domestic abuse and other forms of violence against women; \"crisis intervention\" became a vital topic for them.\n\nIn terms of regions of the United States, research has speculated that local societies with a general culture of violence and low socio-economic status, which may also be at least nominally religious, are more likely to produce abusive men. The role of working-class Scots-Irish American culture in areas such as Appalachia is cited.\n\nDiffering viewpoints between husband and wife may be an aggravating factor in terms of abuse, particularly when women hold beliefs in contrast to more ideologically hardline men.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48975", "title": "Cladogram", "text": "Cladogram\n\nA cladogram (from Greek \"clados\" \"branch\" and \"gramma\" \"character\") is a diagram used in cladistics to show relations among organisms. A cladogram is not, however, an evolutionary tree because it does not show how ancestors are related to descendants, nor does it show how much they have changed; many evolutionary trees can be inferred from a single cladogram. A cladogram uses lines that branch off in different directions ending at a clade, a group of organisms with a last common ancestor. There are many shapes of cladograms but they all have lines that branch off from other lines. The lines can be traced back to where they branch off. These branching off points represent a hypothetical ancestor (not an actual entity) which can be inferred to exhibit the traits shared among the terminal taxa above it. This hypothetical ancestor might then provide clues about the order of evolution of various features, adaptation, and other evolutionary narratives about ancestors. Although traditionally such cladograms were generated largely on the basis of morphological characters, DNA and RNA sequencing data and computational phylogenetics are now very commonly used in the generation of cladograms, either on their own or in combination with morphology.\n\nThe characteristics used to create a cladogram can be roughly categorized as either morphological (synapsid skull, warm blooded, notochord, unicellular, etc.) or molecular (DNA, RNA, or other genetic information). Prior to the advent of DNA sequencing, cladistic analysis primarily used morphological data. Behavioral data (for animals) may also be used.\n\nAs DNA sequencing has become cheaper and easier, molecular systematics has become a more and more popular way to infer phylogenetic hypotheses. Using a parsimony criterion is only one of several methods to infer a phylogeny from molecular data. Approaches such as maximum likelihood, which incorporate explicit models of sequence evolution, are non-Hennigian ways to evaluate sequence data. Another powerful method of reconstructing phylogenies is the use of genomic retrotransposon markers, which are thought to be less prone to the problem of reversion that plagues sequence data. They are also generally assumed to have a low incidence of homoplasies because it was once thought that their integration into the genome was entirely random; this seems at least sometimes not to be the case, however.\n\nResearchers must decide which character states are \"ancestral\" (\"plesiomorphies\") and which are derived (\"synapomorphies\"), because only synapomorphic character states provide evidence of grouping. This determination is usually done by comparison to the character states of one or more \"outgroups\". States shared between the outgroup and some members of the in-group are symplesiomorphies; states that are present only in a subset of the in-group are synapomorphies. Note that character states unique to a single terminal (autapomorphies) do not provide evidence of grouping. The choice of an outgroup is a crucial step in cladistic analysis because different outgroups can produce trees with profoundly different topologies.\n\nA homoplasy is a character state that is shared by two or more taxa due to some cause \"other\" than common ancestry. The two main types of homoplasy are convergence (evolution of the \"same\" character in at least two distinct lineages) and reversion (the return to an ancestral character state). Characters that are obviously homoplastic, such as white fur in different lineages of Arctic mammals, should not be included as a character in a phylogenetic analysis as they do not contribute anything to our understanding of relationships. However, homoplasy is often not evident from inspection of the character itself (as in DNA sequence, for example), and is then detected by its incongruence (unparsimonious distribution) on a most-parsimonious cladogram. Note that characters that are homoplastic may still contain phylogenetic signal.\n\nA well-known example of homoplasy due to convergent evolution would be the character, \"presence of wings\". Although the wings of birds, bats, and insects serve the same function, each evolved independently, as can be seen by their anatomy. If a bird, bat, and a winged insect were scored for the character, \"presence of wings\", a homoplasy would be introduced into the dataset, and this could potentially confound the analysis, possibly resulting in a false hypothesis of relationships. Of course, the only reason a homoplasy is recognizable in the first place is because there are other characters that imply a pattern of relationships that reveal its homoplastic distribution.\n\nA cladogram is the diagrammatic result of an analysis, which groups taxa on the basis of synapomorphies alone. There are many other phylogenetic algorithms that treat data somewhat differently, and result in phylogenetic trees that look like cladograms but are not cladograms. For example, phenetic algorithms, such as UPGMA and Neighbor-Joining, group by overall similarity, and treat both synapomorphies and symplesiomorphies as evidence of grouping, The resulting diagrams are phenograms, not cladograms, Similarly, the results of model-based methods (Maximum Likelihood or Bayesian approaches) that take into account both branching order and \"branch length,\" count both synapomorphies and autapomorphies as evidence for or against grouping, The diagrams resulting from those sorts of analysis are not cladograms, either.\n\nThere are several algorithms available to identify the \"best\" cladogram. Most algorithms use a metric to measure how consistent a candidate cladogram is with the data. Most cladogram algorithms use the mathematical techniques of optimization and minimization.\n\nIn general, cladogram generation algorithms must be implemented as computer programs, although some algorithms can be performed manually when the data sets are modest (for example, just a few species and a couple of characteristics).\n\nSome algorithms are useful only when the characteristic data are molecular (DNA, RNA); other algorithms are useful only when the characteristic data are morphological. Other algorithms can be used when the characteristic data includes both molecular and morphological data.\n\nAlgorithms for cladograms or other types of phylogenetic trees include least squares, neighbor-joining, parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference.\n\nBiologists sometimes use the term parsimony for a specific kind of cladogram generation algorithm and sometimes as an umbrella term for all phylogenetic algorithms.\n\nAlgorithms that perform optimization tasks (such as building cladograms) can be sensitive to the order in which the input data (the list of species and their characteristics) is presented. Inputting the data in various orders can cause the same algorithm to produce different \"best\" cladograms. In these situations, the user should input the data in various orders and compare the results.\n\nUsing different algorithms on a single data set can sometimes yield different \"best\" cladograms, because each algorithm may have a unique definition of what is \"best\".\n\nBecause of the astronomical number of possible cladograms, algorithms cannot guarantee that the solution is the overall best solution. A nonoptimal cladogram will be selected if the program settles on a local minimum rather than the desired global minimum. To help solve this problem, many cladogram algorithms use a simulated annealing approach to increase the likelihood that the selected cladogram is the optimal one.\n\nThe basal position is the direction of the base (or root) of a rooted phylogenetic tree or cladogram. A basal clade is the earliest clade (of a given taxonomic rank[a]) to branch within a larger clade.\n\nThe incongruence length difference test (ILD) is a measurement of how the combination of different datasets (e.g. morphological and molecular, plastid and nuclear genes) contributes to a longer tree. It is measured by first calculating the total tree length of each partition and summing them. Then replicates are made by making randomly assembled partitions consisting of the original partitions. The lengths are summed. A p value of 0.01 is obtained for 100 replicates if 99 replicates have longer combined tree lengths.\n\nSome measures attempt to measure the amount of homoplasy in a dataset with reference to a tree, though it is not necessarily clear precisely what property these measures aim to quantify\n\nThe consistency index (CI) measures the consistency of a tree to a set of data – a measure of the minimum amount of homoplasy implied by the tree. It is calculated by counting the minimum number of changes in a dataset and dividing it by the actual number of changes needed for the cladogram. A consistency index can also be calculated for an individual character \"i\", denoted c.\n\nBesides reflecting the amount of homoplasy, the metric also reflects the number of taxa in the dataset, (to a lesser extent) the number of characters in a dataset, the degree to which each character carries phylogenetic information, and the fashion in which additive characters are coded, rendering it unfit for purpose.\n\nc occupies a range from 1 to 1/[\"n.taxa\"/2] in binary characters with an even state distribution; its minimum value is larger when states are not evenly spread.\n\nThe retention index (RI) was proposed as an improvement of the CI \"for certain applications\" This metric also purports to measure of the amount of homoplasy, but also measures how well synapomorphies explain the tree. It is calculated taking the (maximum number of changes on a tree minus the number of changes on the tree), and dividing by the (maximum number of changes on the tree minus the minimum number of changes in the dataset).\n\nThe rescaled consistency index (RC) is obtained by multiplying the CI by the RI; in effect this stretches the range of the CI such that its minimum theoretically attainable value is rescaled to 0, with its maximum remaining at 1. The homoplasy index (HI) is simply 1 − CI.\n\nThis measures the amount of homoplasy observed on a tree relative to the maximum amount of homoplasy that could theoretically be present – 1 − (observed homoplasy excess) / (maximum homoplasy excess). A value of 1 indicates no homoplasy; 0 represents as much homoplasy as there would be in a fully random dataset, and negative values indicate more homoplasy still (and tend only to occur in contrived examples). The HER is presented as the best measure of homoplasy currently available.\n\n"}
{"id": "327443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327443", "title": "Compassion", "text": "Compassion\n\nCompassion motivates people to go out of their way to help the physical, mental, or emotional pains of another and themselves. Compassion is often regarded as having sensitivity, an emotional aspect to suffering, though when based on cerebral notions such as fairness, justice, and interdependence, it may be considered rational in nature and its application understood as an activity also based on sound judgment. There is also an aspect of equal dimension, such that individual's compassion is often given a property of \"depth\", \"vigour\", or \"passion\". The etymology of \"compassion\" is Latin, meaning \"co-suffering.\" Compassion involves \"feeling for another\" and is a precursor to empathy, the \"feeling as another\" capacity for better person centered acts of active compassion; in common parlance active compassion is the desire to alleviate another's suffering.\n\nCompassion involves allowing ourselves to be moved by suffering, and experiencing the motivation to help alleviate and prevent it. An act of compassion is defined by its helpfulness. Qualities of compassion are patience and wisdom; kindness and perseverance; warmth and resolve. It is often, though not inevitably, the key component in what manifests in the social context as altruism. Expression of compassion is prone to be hierarchical, paternalistic and controlling in responses. Difference between sympathy and compassion is that the former responds to suffering with sorrow and concern while the latter responds with warmth and care.\n\nThe English noun \"compassion\", meaning \"to love together with\", comes from Latin. Its prefix \"com-\" comes directly from \"com\", an archaic version of the Latin preposition and affix cum (= with); the \"-passion\" segment is derived from \"passus\", past participle of the deponent verb patior, patī, passus sum. Compassion is thus related in origin, form and meaning to the English noun patient (= one who suffers), from \"patiens\", present participle of the same patior, and is akin to the Greek verb πάσχειν (= \"paskhein\", to suffer) and to its cognate noun πάθος (= pathos). Ranked a great virtue in numerous philosophies, compassion is considered in almost all the major religious traditions as among the greatest of virtues.\n\nTheoretical perspectives of compassion have been developed through the years, the following three proposed perspectives show contrasts in their evolution and approaches to compassion.\n\nThe more one person knows about the human condition and the associated experiences, the more vivid the route to identification with suffering becomes. Identifying with another person is an essential process for human beings, it is commonly seen throughout the world as people adapt and change with new styles of clothing, language, behavior, etc., which is even illustrated by infants who begin to mirror the facial expressions and body movements of their mother as early as the first days of their lives. Personality psychology agrees that people are inherently different and distinct from one another, which leads to the conclusion that human suffering is always individual and unique. Suffering can result from psychological, social, and physical trauma and it happens in acute forms as often as chronically. Due to the inherent differences in people's personalities some may define their early stages of suffering to their external circumstances and those life events being quiet or not discussed. The later stages may involve the person expressing their victimization and searching for help. Suffering has been defined as the perception of a person's impending destruction or loss of integrity, which continues until the threat is vanished or the person's integrity can be restored. The importance of identifying with others for compassion is contrasted by the negative physical and psychological effects of abandonment. Compassion is often a characteristic element of democratic societies. Compassion is recognized through identifying with other people, the knowledge of human behavior, the perception of suffering, transfer of feelings, knowledge of goal and purpose changes in sufferers, and leads to the absence of the suffering from the group.\n\nThe compassion process is highly related to identifying with the other person because sympathizing with others is possible among people from other countries, cultures, locations, etc. A possible source of this process of identifying with others comes from a universal category called \"Spirit.\" Toward the late 1970s, very different cultures and nations around the world took a turn to religious fundamentalism, which has occasionally been attributed to \"Spirit\". The role of compassion as a factor contributing to individual or societal behavior has been the topic of continuous debate. In contrast to the process of identifying with other people, a complete absence of compassion may require ignoring or disapproving identification with other people or groups. Earlier studies established the links between interpersonal violence and cruelty which leads to indifference. This concept has been illustrated throughout history: The Holocaust, Genocide, European colonization of the Americas, etc. The seemingly essential step in these atrocities could be the defining of the victims as \"not human\" or \"not us.\" The atrocities committed throughout human history have only been relieved through the presence of compassion.\n\nCompassion may have the ability to induce feelings of kindness and forgiveness, which could give people the ability to stop situations that have the potential to be distressing and occasionally lead to violence.\n\nCompassion has become associated with and researched in the fields of positive psychology and social psychology . The Dalai Lama once said that \"compassion is a necessity, not a luxury\" and that \"it is a question of human survival\". Compassion is a process of connecting by identifying with another person. This identification with others through compassion can lead to increased motivation to do something in an effort to relieve the suffering of others.\n\nCompassion is an evolved function from the harmony of a three grid internal system: contentment-and-peace system, goals-and-drives system and threat-and-safety system. Paul Gilbert defines these collectively as necessary regulated systems for compassion. In examination of the motivated regulation of compassion in the context of large-scale crises, such as natural disasters and genocides, much research has established that people tend to feel more compassion for single identifiable victims than large masses of victims (the Identifiable victim effect). It is found that people only show less compassion for many victims than for single victims of disasters when they expect to incur a financial cost upon helping. This collapse of compassion depends on having the motivation and ability to regulate emotions. In laboratory research, psychologists are exploring how concerns about becoming emotionally exhausted may motivate people to curb their compassion for—and dehumanize—members of stigmatized social groups, such as homeless individuals and drug addicts.\n\nCompassion consists of three major requirements: People must feel that troubles that evoke their feelings are serious, the understanding that sufferers' troubles are not self-inflicted, and ability to picture oneself with the same problems in a non-blaming and non-shaming manner.\n\nIn a 2009 small fMRI experiment, Mary Helen Immordino-Yang and colleagues at the Brain and Creativity Institute studied strong feelings of compassion for social and physical pain in others. Both feelings involved an expected change in activity in the anterior insula, anterior cingulate, hypothalamus, and midbrain, but they also found a previously undescribed pattern of cortical activity on the posterior medial surface of each brain hemisphere, a region involved in the default mode of brain function, and implicated in self-related processes. Compassion for social pain in others was associated with strong activation in the interoceptive, inferior/posterior portion of this region, while compassion for physical pain in others involved heightened activity in the exteroceptive, superior/anterior portion. Compassion for social pain activated this superior/anterior section, to a lesser extent. Activity in the anterior insula related to compassion for social pain peaked later and endured longer than that associated with compassion for physical pain. Compassionate emotions in relation to others has effects on the prefrontal cortex, inferior frontal cortex, and the midbrain. Feelings and acts of compassion have been found to simulate areas known to regulate homeostasis, such as insular cortex and hypothalamus.\n\nIn one study conducted by Jill Rilling and Gregory Berns, neuroscientists at Emory University, subjects’ brain activity was recorded while they helped someone in need. It was found that while the subjects were performing compassionate acts the caudate nucleus and anterior cingulate regions of the brain were activated, the same areas of the brain associated with pleasure and reward. This research sheds light on how acting on compassion induces a positive feeling in people and how humans are innately wired to want to help the suffering.\n\nCompassion is one of the most important attributes for physicians practicing medical services. It has been suggested that felt compassion brings about the desire to do something to help the sufferer. That desire to be helpful is not compassion, but it does suggest that compassion is similar to other emotions by motivating behaviors to reduce the tension brought on by the emotion. Physicians generally identify their central duties as the responsibility to put the patient's interests first, including the duty not to harm, deliver proper care, and maintain confidentiality. Compassion is seen in each of those duties because of its direct relation to the recognition and treatment of suffering. Physicians who use compassion understand the effects of sickness and suffering on human behavior. Compassion may be closely related to love and the emotions evoked in both. This is illustrated by the relationship between patients and physicians in medical institutions. The relationship between suffering patients and their care-givers provides evidence that compassion is a social emotion, which is highly related to closeness between individuals.\n\nAccording to Figley, individuals with a higher capacity or responsibility to empathize with others may be at risk for \"compassion fatigue\" or stress, which is related to professionals and individuals who spend a significant amount of time responding to information related to suffering. However, newer research by Singer and Ricard suggests that it is lack of suitable distress tolerance which gets people fatigued in compassion activities. Research suggests that practice of nonjudgmental compassion can prevent fatigue and burnout.\n\nSelf-compassion is a process of self kindness and accepting suffering as a quality of being human. It has positive effects on subjective happiness, optimism, wisdom, curiosity, agreeableness, and extroversion. Kristin Neff and Christopher Germer have identified that there are three levels of activities that thwart self-compassion and they are self-criticism, self-isolation and self-absorption, they equate this to fight, flight and freeze responses. It is identified that people who lack of life skill equanimity that is akin with distress tolerance are prone to such spontaneous responses. Certain activities may increase feelings of and readiness to practice self-compassion; some of these activities include creating a loving-kindness rituals, practicing empathy, practice random acts of warmth and goodwill like tonglen, etc.\n\nFor increasing compassion in the workplace to self and others \"authentic leadership\" centered on humanism and nourishing quality interconnectedness are considered as the key. Judith Jordan's concept of \"self-empathy\" is similar to self-compassion, it implies the capacity to notice, care and respond towards the ones own felt needs. The strategies of self care involve valuing oneself, thinking about one's ideations of needs compassionately, and connecting with others in order to conversely experience renewal, support and validation. Research indicates that self-compassionate individuals experience greater psychological health than those who lack self-compassion.\n\nThe ancient Greek and Roman philosophers typically distrusted (feeling) compassion. In the view of many, reason alone was the proper guide to conduct. To some, compassion was an effect, neither admirable nor contemptible. Compassion historically is considered as a passion; Justitia is blindfolded because her virtue is dispassion and not compassion. In Roman society, in fact, compassion was often seen as a vice when it was inclined toward pity, as opposed to mercy. In other words, showing empathy toward someone who was seen as deserving was considered virtuous, whereas showing empathy to someone deemed unworthy was considered immoral (weak).\n\nIn classical literature of Hinduism, compassion is a virtue with many shades, each shade explained by different terms. Three most common terms are \"daya\" (दया), \"karuna\" (करुणा), and \"anukampa\" (अनुकम्पा). Other words related to compassion in Hinduism include \"karunya\", \"kripa\", and \"anukrosha\". Some of these words are used interchangeably among the schools of Hinduism to explain the concept of compassion, its sources, its consequences, and its nature. The virtue of compassion to all living beings, claim Gandhi and others, is a central concept in Hindu philosophy.\n\n\"Daya\" is defined by Padma Purana as the virtuous desire to mitigate the sorrow and difficulties of others by putting forth whatever effort necessary. Matsya Purana describes \"daya\" as the value that treats all living beings (including human beings) as one's own self, wanting the welfare and good of the other living being. Such compassion, claims Matsya Purana, is one of necessary paths to being happy. Ekadashi Tattvam explains \"daya\" is treating a stranger, a relative, a friend and a foe as one's own self; it argues that compassion is that state when one sees all living beings as part of one's own self, and when everyone's suffering is seen as one's own suffering. Compassion to all living beings, including to those who are strangers and those who are foes, is seen as a noble virtue. \"Karuna\", another word for compassion in Hindu philosophy, means placing one's mind in other's favor, thereby seeking to understand the other from their perspective. \"Anukampa\", yet another word for compassion, refers to one's state after one has observed and understood the pain and suffering in other. In Mahabharata, Indra praises Yudhishthira for his \"anukrosha\" — compassion, sympathy — for all creatures. Tulsidas contrasts \"daya\" (compassion) with \"abhiman\" (arrogance, contempt of others), claiming compassion is a source of \"dharmic\" life, while arrogance a source of sin. \"Daya\" (compassion) is not \"kripa\" (pity) in Hinduism, or feeling sorry for the sufferer, because that is marred with condescension; compassion is feeling one with the sufferer. Compassion is the basis for ahimsa, a core virtue in Hindu philosophy.\n\nCompassion in Hinduism is discussed as an absolute and relative concept. There are two forms of compassion: one for those who suffer even though they have done nothing wrong and one for those who suffer because they did something wrong. Absolute compassion applies to both, while relative compassion addresses the difference between the former and the latter. An example of the latter include those who plead guilty or are convicted of a crime such as murder; in these cases, the virtue of compassion must be balanced with the virtue of justice.\n\nThe classical literature of Hinduism exists in many Indian languages. For example, \"Tirukkuṛaḷ,\" written between 200 BC and AD 400, and sometimes called the Tamil Veda, is a cherished classic on Hinduism written in a South Indian language. It dedicates Chapter 25 of Book 1 to compassion, further dedicating separate chapters each for the resulting values of compassion, chiefly, vegetarianism or veganism (Chapter 26), doing no harm (Chapter 32), non-killing (Chapter 33), possession of kindness (Chapter 8), dreading evil deeds (Chapter 21), benignity (Chapter 58), the right scepter (Chapter 55), and absence of terrorism (Chapter 57), to name a few.\n\nCompassion for all life, human and non-human, is central to the Jain tradition. Though all life is considered sacred, human life is deemed the highest form of earthly existence. To kill any person, no matter their crime, is considered unimaginably abhorrent. It is the only substantial religious tradition that requires both monks and laity to be vegetarian. It is suggested that certain strains of the Hindu tradition became vegetarian due to strong Jain influences. The Jain tradition's stance on nonviolence, however, goes far beyond vegetarianism. Jains refuse food obtained with unnecessary cruelty. Many practice veganism. Jains run animal shelters all over India. The Lal Mandir, a prominent Jain temple in Delhi, is known for the Jain Birds Hospital in a second building behind the main temple.\n\nIn the Jewish tradition, God is the Compassionate and is invoked as the Father of Compassion: hence \"Raḥmana\" or Compassionate becomes the usual designation for His revealed word. (Compare, below, the frequent use of \"raḥman\" in the Quran). Sorrow and pity for one in distress, creating a desire to relieve it, is a feeling ascribed alike to man and God: in Biblical Hebrew, (\"riḥam,\" from \"reḥem,\" the mother, womb), \"to pity\" or \"to show mercy\" in view of the sufferer's helplessness, hence also \"to forgive\" (Hab. iii. 2), \"to forbear\" (Ex. ii. 6; I Sam. xv. 3; Jer. xv. 15, xxi. 7). The Rabbis speak of the \"thirteen attributes of compassion.\" The Biblical conception of compassion is the feeling of the parent for the child. Hence the prophet's appeal in confirmation of his trust in God invokes the feeling of a mother for her offspring (Isa. xlix. 15).\n\nA classic articulation of the Golden Rule (see above) came from the first century Rabbi Hillel the Elder. Renowned in the Jewish tradition as a sage and a scholar, he is associated with the development of the Mishnah and the Talmud and, as such, one of the most important figures in Jewish history. Asked for a summary of the Jewish religion in the \"while standing on one leg\" meaning in the most concise terms, Hillel stated: \"That which is hateful to you, do not do to your fellow. That is the whole Torah. The rest is the explanation; go and learn.\" Post 9/11, the words of Rabbi Hillel are frequently quoted in public lectures and interviews around the world by the prominent writer on comparative religion Karen Armstrong.\n\nMany Jewish sources speak of the importance of compassion for animals. Significant rabbis who have done so include Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch, Rabbi Simhah Zissel Ziv, and Rabbi Moshe Cordovero.\n\nThe first of what in English are called the Four Noble Truths is the truth of suffering or dukkha (unsatisfactoriness or stress). Dukkha is identified as one of the three distinguishing characteristics of all conditioned existence. It arises as a consequence of the failure to adapt to change or anicca (the second characteristic) and the insubstantiality, lack of fixed identity, the horrendous lack of certainty of anatta (the third characteristic) to which all this constant change in turn gives rise. Compassion made possible by observation and accurate perception is the appropriate practical response. The ultimate and earnest wish, manifest in the Buddha, both as archetype and as historical entity, is to relieve the suffering of all living beings everywhere.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has said, \"If you want others to be happy, practice compassion. If you want to be happy, practice compassion.\" The American monk Bhikkhu Bodhi states that compassion \"supplies the complement to loving-kindness: whereas loving-kindness has the characteristic of wishing for the happiness and welfare of others, compassion has the characteristic of wishing that others be free from suffering, a wish to be extended without limits to all living beings. Like metta, compassion arises by entering into the subjectivity of others, by sharing their interiority in a deep and total way. It springs up by considering that all beings, like ourselves, wish to be free from suffering, yet despite their wishes continue to be harassed by pain, fear, sorrow, and other forms of dukkha.\"\n\nThe Christian Bible's Second Epistle to the Corinthians is but one place where God is spoken of as the \"Father of compassion\" and the \"God of all comfort.\" It reads as follows: 2 Corinthians 1:3-7 \"Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our troubles, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves received from God. For just as the sufferings of Christ flow over into our lives, so also through Christ our comfort overflows. If we are distressed, it is for your comfort and salvation; if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which produces in you patient endurance of the same sufferings we suffer. And our hope for you is firm, because we know that just as you share in our sufferings, so also you share in our comfort.\" Jesus embodies for Christians, the very essence of compassion and relational care. Christ challenges Christians to forsake their own desires and to act compassionately towards others, particularly those in need or distress. Most significantly, he demonstrated compassion to those his society had condemned - tax collectors, prostitutes and criminals.\n\nConversely, a 2012 study of the historical Jesus has claimed that the founder of Christianity sought to elevate Judaic compassion as the supreme human virtue, capable of reducing suffering and fulfilling our God-ordained purpose of transforming the world into something more worthy of its creator.\n\nIn the Muslim tradition, foremost among God's attributes are mercy and compassion or, in the canonical language of Arabic, \"Rahman\" and \"Rahim\". Each of the 114 chapters of the Quran, with one exception, begins with the verse, \"In the name of Allah the Compassionate, the Merciful.\"\n\nThe Arabic word for compassion is \"rahmah\". As a cultural influence, its roots abound in the Quran. A good Muslim is to commence each day, each prayer and each significant action by invoking Allah the Merciful and Compassionate, i.e., by reciting \"Bism-i-llah a-Rahman-i-Rahim\". The womb and family ties are characterized by compassion and named after the exalted attribute of Allah \"Al-Rahim\" (The Compassionate).\n\n"}
{"id": "27143710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27143710", "title": "Cultural contracts", "text": "Cultural contracts\n\nCultural contracts refer to the degree that cultural values are exchanged between groups. It extends identity negotiation theory and uncertainty reduction theory by focusing defining the negotiation experience from the perspective of minority groups when dealing with majority cultural norms. Cultural contracts theory was developed in 1999 by Dr. Ronald L. Jackson, an identity scholar and a professor in media and cinema studies at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.\n\nCultural contracts first appeared in Communication Quarterly in 1999. The theory is inspired by Ting-Toomey's (1986) identity validation model (IDM) that emerged from a study of European American and African American communication experiences. Both theories are rooted in the exchanges between strangers as described in Berger and Calabrese's (1975) uncertainty reduction theory. Cultural contracts focuses specifically on the exchanges between traditionally marginalized groups and majority groups in power in American society from the standpoint of the minority member. The theory is not limited to oral communication. Any value that makes up an individual's worldview, including behavior and other cultural norms, can be negotiated and subjected to a cultural contract.\n\nCultural contracts suggests that mainstream and marginalized identities are in natural conflict. In order to achieve communication, individuals must decide how much of their values will be negotiated. This results in one of three contracts by the minority identity: ready-to-sign contracts (assimilating to mainstream values); quasi-completed contracts (adapting marginalized values to accommodate mainstream values); and co-completed contracts (validating both mainstream and marginalized values). Most individuals are not aware that they create or sign cultural contracts.\n\nEach contract is a “result of how identities have been personally and socially constructed and exposed.\" The first contract is a ready-to-sign contract, or assimilation, which occurs when individuals replace their culture identity for the dominant culture. This contract can be temporary or long-term and benefits the majority. There is no room for negotiating marginalized identity with mainstream ideals in this contract with no perceived benefit to the marginalized group.Quasi-completed contracts (adaptation) result in temporarily incorporating a small part of an individual's value to the mainstream value, and vice versa. This is usually a short-term contract since neither identity is dominant in this interaction. Lastly, co-completed contracts (mutual validation) result in blending values together. Cultural differences are acknowledged and valued in this contract. In certain instance, values are deeply penetrated and are not up for exchange. Others are more surface and the perceived benefits of the contract do not conflict with our core identity. This will determine if an individual is willing to sign a cultural contract or remain in conflict. The contracts can be signed one or two ways: the signee perceives a benefit in accommodating or assimilating, or the signee is forced to accommodate or assimilate.\n\nApplications. In addition to identity research, cultural contracts theory has been used in higher education scholarship to explore the relationships between White students and African American faculty The theory has also been used to explore the cultural contracts African American women sign in their beauty and hair choices.\n"}
{"id": "8212629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8212629", "title": "David Roediger", "text": "David Roediger\n\nDavid R. Roediger (born July 13, 1952) is the Foundation Distinguished Professor of American Studies and History at the University of Kansas, where he has been since the fall of 2014. Previously, he was an American Kendrick C. Babcock Professor of History at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). His research interests include the construction of racial identity, class structures, labor studies, and the history of American radicalism. He writes from a Marxist theoretical framework.\n\nRoediger was born on July 13, 1952 in Columbia, Illinois. He attended local public schools through high school. He earned a bachelor of science degree in education from Northern Illinois University in 1975. He went on to do graduate study and earned a PhD in history from Northwestern University in 1980, where he wrote a dissertation under the direction of George M. Fredrickson.\n\nHe was assistant editor of the Frederick Douglass Papers at Yale University from 1979 to 1980.\n\nAfter receiving his doctorate, Roediger was a lecturer and assistant professor of history at Northwestern University from 1980 to 1985. He served as an assistant professor at the University of Missouri in 1985, rising to full professor in 1992. He moved to the University of Minnesota in 1995, and was chair of the university's American Studies Program from 1996 to 2000.\n\nIn 2000, he was appointed professor of history at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Roediger has also served as the director for the Center on Democracy in a Multiracial Society at UIUC. Beginning in the fall of 2014, he will be the Foundation Distinguished Professor of American Studies and History at Kansas University. \nRoediger is a member of the board of directors of the Charles H Kerr Company Publishers, a position he has held since 1992.\n\nRoediger's research interests primarily concern race and class in the United States, although he has also written on radicalism in American history and politics.\n\nIn 1989, Roediger and historian Philip Foner co-authored \"Our Own Time: A History of American Labor and the Working Day,\" a book that provides a highly detailed account of the movement to shorten the working day in the United States. The work broke new ground by combining labor history with a study of culture and the nature of work. The book also extended the history of the eight-hour day movement to colonial times. The authors argued that debate over the length of the work-day or work-week has been the central issue of the American labor movement during periods of high growth.\n\nRoediger's book, \"The Wages of Whiteness: Race and the Making of the American Working Class\", was published in 1991. Along with Alexander Saxton's \"Rise and Fall of the White Republic\"(1990) and Toni Morrison's \"Playing in the Dark: Whiteness and the Literary Imagination\" (1992), this work is often cited as the starting point of contemporary whiteness studies.\n\nTheodore W. Allen's “Class Struggle and the Origin of Racial Slavery: The Invention of the White Race\" (1975), a pamphlet that later was expanded into his seminal two-volume work “The Invention of the White Race,” Vol. 1: “Racial Oppression and Social Control” (1994, 2012) and “The Invention of the White Race,” Vol. 2: “The Origin of Racial Oppression in Anglo-America” (1997, 2012); has also been influential in this field. The argument was also in some regards anticipated by Abram Lincoln Harris' radical scholarship in the 1920s. Allen later wrote of Roediger's work: \"...because of its almost universal acceptance for use in colleges and universities, has served as the single most effective instrument in the socially necessary consciousness-raising function of objectifying \"whiteness,\" and in popularizing the \"race-as-a-social-construct\" thesis. As one who has been the beneficiary of kind supportive comments from him for my own efforts in this field of historical investigation, I undertake this critical essay with no other purpose than furthering the our common aim of the disestablishment of white identity, and the overthrow of white supremacism in general.\"\n\nIn the work, Roediger argued that \"whiteness\" is a historical phenomenon in the United States, as many different ethnicities now considered \"white\" were not initially perceived as such here. The Irish, for example, as Roman Catholics and from rural areas, were not considered \"white\" - meaning accepted as members of the Anglo-American Protestant majority society - until they began to distinguish themselves from black slaves and freedmen; from the New York Draft Riots of 1863, to riots in Philadelphia against black voting, and the Chicago Race Riot of 1919, ethnic Irish were prominent in violent confrontations against black Americans, with whom they competed for jobs, physical territory and political power. Roediger believes their struggle reflects the emergence of the modern theory of color consciousness, through which notions of \"nations\" and \"races\" were increasingly linked to color as the primary category of human difference. Roediger claims that the social construction of the concept of a white race in the United States was a conscious effort by slave owners to gain distance from those they enslaved, who were generally non-European and non-Christian. In addition, white working peoples gained distance from their Southern proletarian complements, the slaves. By the 18th century, he says, \"white\" had become well-established as a racial term in the United States; by the end of the 19th, it had become an all-encompassing one.\n\nWeaving together economic theory, psychology, and the histories of immigration, industrialization, class formation and slavery, Roediger in this work addressed what has become a common question in labor history, specifically, and American political culture more generally: why, historically, have working class blacks and whites not found common cause in their shared suffering at the bottom of the social ladder? (W.E.B. DuBois also posed this question in his seminal work, \"Black Reconstruction\" (1935), as he saw a failure of labor in creating connections across racial lines.) In the nineteenth-century context where the small-scale, autonomous craftsmen were being replaced, slowly but inexorably, by the factory system - with great consequences for the \"liberty\" of ordinary Americans, Roediger suggested that for workers to embrace \"whiteness\" and a caricatured representation of black slaves provided them with a meaningful symbolic \"wage,\" replacing the status values of independence and craft skill for workers.\n\nThis idea that \"whiteness\" has enormous surplus value for the working class has influenced a generation of scholars including, most recently, cultural critic Thomas Frank. Most immediately, it was considered by scholars to have contributed to what analysts had observed to be the splitting of the civil rights consensus of the national Democratic Party and the shift among many of the white working class to vote for Republican Ronald Reagan as president in 1980, pushing him to victory.\n\n\"Wages of Whiteness\" won the Merle Curti Award in 1992 from the Organization of American Historians, for the best work of social history in 1991.\n\nRoediger is researching the interrelation between labor management and the formation of racial identities in the U.S.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13989683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13989683", "title": "Declaration of Table Mountain", "text": "Declaration of Table Mountain\n\nThe Declaration of Table Mountain is a statement on press freedom in Africa. The statement was issued by the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA) and World Editors Forum (WEF) at the 60th meeting of the World Newspaper Conference and 14th World Editors Forum Conference in Cape Town, South Africa, 3–6 June 2007. It is named after Table Mountain, at the southern tip of the African continent.\n\nIn country after country, the African press is crippled by a panoply of repressive measures, from the jailing and persecution of journalists to the widespread scourge of 'insult laws' and criminal defamation. As the start of an intensive campaign to improve this appalling situation, the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers (WAN-IFRA) adopted the Declaration of Table Mountain on 3 June 2007 in Cape Town, South Africa, during its annual meeting.\n\nThrough this Declaration, WAN-IFRA has stated its conviction that Africa urgently needs a strong, free and independent press to act as a watchdog over public institutions, a crucial role that the press is hindered from and punished for playing by the widespread resort to 'insult laws' and criminal defamation, in particular.\n\nMajor African and international non-governmental organisations that, day after day, defend and promote freedom of expression and freedom of the press have now endorsed the Declaration and expressed their readiness to contribute to this campaign. Together, with determination, we will now aggressively press our case in the hope for a better future for African media freedom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1631852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631852", "title": "Denial", "text": "Denial\n\nDenial, in ordinary English usage, is asserting that a statement or allegation is not true. The same word, and also abnegation (), is used for a psychological defense mechanism postulated by psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud, in which a person is faced with a fact that is too uncomfortable to accept and rejects it instead, insisting that it is not true despite what may be overwhelming evidence. An individual that exhibits such behavior is described as a denialist or true believer. Denial also could mean denying the happening of an event or the reliability of information, which can lead to a feeling of aloofness and to the ignoring of possibly beneficial information. \n\nThe subject may use:\n\nThe concept of denial is particularly important to the study of addiction.\n\nThe theory of denial was first researched seriously by Anna Freud. She classified denial as a mechanism of the immature mind, because it conflicts with the ability to learn from and cope with reality. Where denial occurs in mature minds, it is most often associated with death, dying and rape. More recent research has significantly expanded the scope and utility of the concept. Elisabeth Kübler-Ross used denial as the first of five stages in the psychology of a dying patient, and the idea has been extended to include the reactions of survivors to news of a death.\n\nMany contemporary psychoanalysts treat denial as the first stage of a coping cycle. When an unwelcome change occurs, a trauma of some sort, the first impulse to disbelieve begins the process of coping. That denial, in a healthy mind, slowly rises to greater consciousness. Gradually becoming a subconscious pressure, just beneath the surface of overt awareness, the mechanism of coping then involves repression, while the person accumulates the emotional resources to fully face the trauma. Once faced, the person deals with the trauma in a stage alternately called acceptance or enlightenment, depending on the scope of the issue and the therapist's school of thought. After this stage, once sufficiently dealt with, or dealt with for the time being, the trauma must sink away from total conscious awareness again. Left out of the conscious mind, the process of sublimation involves a balance of neither quite forgetting nor quite remembering. This allows the trauma to re-emerge in consciousness if it involves an ongoing process such as a protracted illness. Alternately, sublimation may begin the full resolution process, where the trauma finally sinks away into eventual forgetfulness. Occasionally this entire cycle has been referred to in modern parlance as \"denial\", confusing the full cycle with only one stage of it. To further muddy discourse, the terms \"denial\" and \"cycle of denial\" sometimes get used to refer to an unhealthy, dysfunctional cycle of unresolved coping, particularly with regard to addiction and compulsion.\n\nUnlike some other defense mechanisms postulated by psychoanalytic theory (for instance, repression), the general existence of denial is fairly easy to verify, even for non-specialists. However, denial is one of the most controversial defense mechanisms, since it can be easily used to create unfalsifiable theories: anything the subject says or does that appears to disprove the interpreter's theory is explained, not as evidence that the interpreter's theory is wrong, but as the subject's being \"in denial\". However, researchers note that in some cases of corroborated child sexual abuse, the victims sometimes make a series of partial confessions and recantations as they struggle with their own denial and the denial of abusers or family members. Use of denial theory in a legal setting, therefore, is carefully regulated and experts' credentials verified. \"Formulaic guilt\" simply by \"being a denier\" has been castigated by English judges and academics. The main objection is that denial theory is founded on the premise that that which the supposed denier is denying is truth. This usurps the judge (and jury) as triers of fact.\n\nWhat makes denial denial and not just a refusal to admit to or accept a truth or fact rests in the degree of an individual's awareness of the existence of the truth or fact. In denial, an individual does not see or is mostly unconscious of existence of the truth or fact. The choice to refuse reality, then, is unconscious as well. Refusal to admit to or accept a truth or fact differs from denial in that the individual recognizes or is conscious of the existence of the truth or fact but consciously refuses to accept it as such.\nFreud employs the term ' (usually translated either as \"disavowal\" or as \"denial\") as distinct from ' (usually translated as \"denial\" or as \"abnegation\"). In \"Verleugnung\", the defense consists of denying something that affects the individual and is a way of affirming what he or she is apparently denying. For Freud, \"Verleugnung\" is related to psychoses, whereas \"Verdrängung\" is a neurotic defense mechanism. Freud broadened his clinical work on disavowal beyond the realm of psychosis. In \"Fetishism\" (1927), he reported a case of two young men each of whom denied the death of his father. Freud notes that neither of them developed a psychosis, even though \"a piece of reality which was undoubtedly important has been disavowed [\"verleugnet\"], just as the unwelcome fact of women's castration is disavowed in fetishists.\"\n\nThe concept of denial is important in twelve-step programs, where the abandonment or reversal of denial forms the basis of the first, fourth, fifth, eighth and tenth steps. The ability to deny or minimize is an essential part of what enables an addict to continue his or her behavior despite evidence that—to an outsider—appears overwhelming. This is cited as one of the reasons that compulsion is seldom effective in treating addiction—the habit of denial remains.\n\nUnderstanding and avoiding denial is also important in the treatment of various diseases. The American Heart Association cites denial as a principal reason that treatment of a heart attack is delayed. Because the symptoms are so varied, and often have other potential explanations, the opportunity exists for the patient to deny the emergency, often with fatal consequences. It is common for patients to delay mammograms or other tests because of a fear of cancer, even though this is clearly maladaptive. It is the responsibility of the care team, and of the nursing staff in particular, to train at-risk patients to avoid this behavior.\n\nIn this form of denial, someone avoids a fact by utilizing deception. This lying can take the form of an outright falsehood (commission), leaving out certain details to tailor a story (omission), or by falsely agreeing to something (assent). Someone who is in denial of fact is typically using lies to avoid facts they think may be painful to themselves or others.\n\nThis form of denial involves avoiding personal responsibility by:\n\nSomeone using denial of responsibility is usually attempting to avoid potential harm or pain by shifting attention away from themselves.\n\nDenial of impact involves a person's avoiding thinking about or understanding the harms of his or her behavior has caused to self or others, i.e. denial of consequences. Doing this enables that person to avoid feeling a sense of guilt and it can prevent him or her from developing remorse or empathy for others. Denial of impact reduces or eliminates a sense of pain or harm from poor decisions.\n\nMany who use this type of denial will say things such as, \"it just happened\". Denial of cycle is where a person avoids looking at their decisions leading up to an event or does not consider their pattern of decision making and how harmful behavior is repeated. The pain and harm being avoided by this type of denial is more of the effort needed to change the focus from a singular event to looking at preceding events. It can also serve as a way to blame or justify behavior (see above).\n\nThis form of denial attempts to divert pain by claiming that the level of awareness was inhibited by some mitigating variable. This is most typically seen in addiction situations where drug or alcohol abuse is a factor, though it also occasionally manifests itself in relation to mental health issues or the pharmaceutical substances used to treat mental health issues. This form of denial may also overlap with denial of responsibility.\n\nThis can be a difficult concept for many people to identify with in themselves, but is a major barrier to changing hurtful behaviors. Denial of denial involves thoughts, actions and behaviors which bolster confidence that nothing needs to be changed in one's personal behavior. This form of denial typically overlaps with all of the other forms of denial, but involves more self-delusion. Denial at this level can have significant consequences both personally and at a societal level.\n\nHarassment covers a wide range of offensive behaviour. It is commonly understood as behaviour intended to disturb or upset. In the legal sense, it is behaviour which \"is\" found threatening or disturbing.\n\n\"DARVO\" is an acronym used to describe a common strategy of abusers: deny the abuse, then attack the victim for attempting to make them accountable for their offense, thereby reversing victim and offender. This may involve gaslighting and victim blaming.\n\nPsychologist Jennifer Freyd writes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55824030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55824030", "title": "Digeponics", "text": "Digeponics\n\nDigeponics (pronounced die-jeh-ponics, as in digestion) is a method of agriculture which integrates the products of anaerobic digestion, including CO and digestate, with greenhouse cultivation of vegetables.\n\nDigeponics was developed in Norway by the \"Food to Waste to Food\" (F2W2F) program, a part of the EU Eco-innovation Initiative, in partnership with the waste management company Lindum AS.\n\nThe method involves the use of various products of anaerobic digestion in the cultivation of vegetables in a greenhouse environment. The more widely used aspects include the use of biogas for electricity production, which is used for lighting and heating the greenhouse in the winter months, as well as the introduction of carbon dioxide into the greenhouse, which is a byproduct of biogas combustion, for increased plant growth. The more novel aspect of this method is the use of a \"mix of vermicompost and garden waste compost fertilized by (non-separated) digestate in a circulating system including earth worms in the substrate and aeration in a biofilter buffer tank.\" \n\nResearch conducted on digeponics found that this method, and others like it, could meet or exceed the production rates of mineral fertilizers. For tomato production, digeponics yielded 5430 g, compared to 4920 g for mineral fertilizers. For cucumber production, digeponics yielded 19560g, compared to 8502g for mineral fertilizers.\n\nIn addition to increased yields, this method can provide decreased energy costs and very low carbon emissions, by producing energy on site from renewable carbon neutral sources that are readily available to the farmer, and could even provide an additional source of income by charging tipping fees for organic waste collection and selling excess electricity or gas back into the grid. Methane emissions were shown to be reduced by 98%, compared to landfilling of organic waste, and carbon emissions were reduced 95%, compared with conventional tomato greenhouse production.\n"}
{"id": "516133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=516133", "title": "Equipartition theorem", "text": "Equipartition theorem\n\nIn classical statistical mechanics, the equipartition theorem relates the temperature of a system to its average energies. The equipartition theorem is also known as the law of equipartition, equipartition of energy, or simply equipartition. The original idea of equipartition was that, in thermal equilibrium, energy is shared equally among all of its various forms; for example, the average kinetic energy per degree of freedom in translational motion of a molecule should equal that in rotational motion.\n\nThe equipartition theorem makes quantitative predictions. Like the virial theorem, it gives the total average kinetic and potential energies for a system at a given temperature, from which the system's heat capacity can be computed. However, equipartition also gives the average values of individual components of the energy, such as the kinetic energy of a particular particle or the potential energy of a single spring. For example, it predicts that every atom in a monatomic ideal gas has an average kinetic energy of (3/2)\"k\"\"T\" in thermal equilibrium, where \"k\" is the Boltzmann constant and \"T\" is the (thermodynamic) temperature. More generally, equipartition can be applied to any classical system in thermal equilibrium, no matter how complicated. It can be used to derive the ideal gas law, and the Dulong–Petit law for the specific heat capacities of solids. The equipartition theorem can also be used to predict the properties of stars, even white dwarfs and neutron stars, since it holds even when relativistic effects are considered.\n\nAlthough the equipartition theorem makes accurate predictions in certain conditions, it is inaccurate when quantum effects are significant, such as at low temperatures. When the thermal energy \"k\"\"T\" is smaller than the quantum energy spacing in a particular degree of freedom, the average energy and heat capacity of this degree of freedom are less than the values predicted by equipartition. Such a degree of freedom is said to be \"frozen out\" when the thermal energy is much smaller than this spacing. For example, the heat capacity of a solid decreases at low temperatures as various types of motion become frozen out, rather than remaining constant as predicted by equipartition. Such decreases in heat capacity were among the first signs to physicists of the 19th century that classical physics was incorrect and that a new, more subtle, scientific model was required. Along with other evidence, equipartition's failure to model black-body radiation—also known as the ultraviolet catastrophe—led Max Planck to suggest that energy in the oscillators in an object, which emit light, were quantized, a revolutionary hypothesis that spurred the development of quantum mechanics and quantum field theory.\n\nThe name \"equipartition\" means \"equal division,\" as derived from the Latin \"equi\" from the antecedent, æquus (\"equal or even\"), and partition from the noun, \"partitio\" (\"division, portion\"). The original concept of equipartition was that the total kinetic energy of a system is shared equally among all of its independent parts, \"on the average\", once the system has reached thermal equilibrium. Equipartition also makes quantitative predictions for these energies. For example, it predicts that every atom of an inert noble gas, in thermal equilibrium at temperature \"T\", has an average translational kinetic energy of (3/2)\"k\"\"T\", where \"k\" is the Boltzmann constant. As a consequence, since kinetic energy is equal to 1/2(mass)(velocity), the heavier atoms of xenon have a lower average speed than do the lighter atoms of helium at the same temperature. Figure 2 shows the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution for the speeds of the atoms in four noble gases.\n\nIn this example, the key point is that the kinetic energy is quadratic in the velocity. The equipartition theorem shows that in thermal equilibrium, any degree of freedom (such as a component of the position or velocity of a particle) which appears only quadratically in the energy has an average energy of \"k\"\"T\" and therefore contributes \"k\" to the system's heat capacity. This has many applications.\n\nThe (Newtonian) kinetic energy of a particle of mass \"m\", velocity v is given by\n\nwhere \"v\", \"v\" and \"v\" are the Cartesian components of the velocity v. Here, \"H\" is short for Hamiltonian, and used henceforth as a symbol for energy because the Hamiltonian formalism plays a central role in the most general form of the equipartition theorem.\n\nSince the kinetic energy is quadratic in the components of the velocity, by equipartition these three components each contribute \"k\"\"T\" to the average kinetic energy in thermal equilibrium. Thus the average kinetic energy of the particle is (3/2)\"k\"\"T\", as in the example of noble gases above.\n\nMore generally, in an ideal gas, the total energy consists purely of (translational) kinetic energy: by assumption, the particles have no internal degrees of freedom and move independently of one another. Equipartition therefore predicts that the average total energy of an ideal gas of \"N\" particles is (3/2) \"N k\" \"T\".\n\nIt follows that the heat capacity of the gas is (3/2) \"N k\" and hence, in particular, the heat capacity of a mole of such gas particles is (3/2)\"N\"\"k\" = (3/2)\"R\", where \"N\" is the Avogadro constant and \"R\" is the gas constant. Since \"R\" ≈ 2 cal/(mol·K), equipartition predicts that the molar heat capacity of an ideal gas is roughly 3 cal/(mol·K). This prediction is confirmed by experiment.\n\nThe mean kinetic energy also allows the root mean square speed \"v\" of the gas particles to be calculated:\n\nwhere \"M\" = \"N\"\"m\" is the mass of a mole of gas particles. This result is useful for many applications such as Graham's law of effusion, which provides a method for enriching uranium.\n\nA similar example is provided by a rotating molecule with principal moments of inertia \"I\", \"I\" and \"I\". The rotational energy of such a molecule is given by\nwhere \"ω\", \"ω\", and \"ω\" are the principal components of the angular velocity. By exactly the same reasoning as in the translational case, equipartition implies that in thermal equilibrium the average rotational energy of each particle is (3/2)\"k\"\"T\". Similarly, the equipartition theorem allows the average (more precisely, the root mean square) angular speed of the molecules to be calculated.\n\nThe tumbling of rigid molecules—that is, the random rotations of molecules in solution—plays a key role in the relaxations observed by nuclear magnetic resonance, particularly protein NMR and residual dipolar couplings. Rotational diffusion can also be observed by other biophysical probes such as fluorescence anisotropy, flow birefringence and dielectric spectroscopy.\n\nEquipartition applies to potential energies as well as kinetic energies: important examples include harmonic oscillators such as a spring, which has a quadratic potential energy\n\nwhere the constant \"a\" describes the stiffness of the spring and \"q\" is the deviation from equilibrium. If such a one-dimensional system has mass \"m\", then its kinetic energy \"H\" is\n\nwhere \"v\" and \"p\" = \"mv\" denote the velocity and momentum of the oscillator. Combining these terms yields the total energy\n\nEquipartition therefore implies that in thermal equilibrium, the oscillator has average energy\n\nwhere the angular brackets formula_8 denote the average of the enclosed quantity,\n\nThis result is valid for any type of harmonic oscillator, such as a pendulum, a vibrating molecule or a passive electronic oscillator. Systems of such oscillators arise in many situations; by equipartition, each such oscillator receives an average total energy \"k\"\"T\" and hence contributes \"k\" to the system's heat capacity. This can be used to derive the formula for Johnson–Nyquist noise and the Dulong–Petit law of solid heat capacities. The latter application was particularly significant in the history of equipartition.\n\nAn important application of the equipartition theorem is to the specific heat capacity of a crystalline solid. Each atom in such a solid can oscillate in three independent directions, so the solid can be viewed as a system of 3\"N\" independent simple harmonic oscillators, where \"N\" denotes the number of atoms in the lattice. Since each harmonic oscillator has average energy \"k\"\"T\", the average total energy of the solid is 3\"Nk\"\"T\", and its heat capacity is 3\"Nk\".\n\nBy taking \"N\" to be the Avogadro constant \"N\", and using the relation \"R\" = \"N\"\"k\" between the gas constant \"R\" and the Boltzmann constant \"k\", this provides an explanation for the Dulong–Petit law of specific heat capacities of solids, which stated that the specific heat capacity (per unit mass) of a solid element is inversely proportional to its atomic weight. A modern version is that the molar heat capacity of a solid is \"3R\" ≈ 6 cal/(mol·K).\n\nHowever, this law is inaccurate at lower temperatures, due to quantum effects; it is also inconsistent with the experimentally derived third law of thermodynamics, according to which the molar heat capacity of any substance must go to zero as the temperature goes to absolute zero. A more accurate theory, incorporating quantum effects, was developed by Albert Einstein (1907) and Peter Debye (1911).\n\nMany other physical systems can be modeled as sets of coupled oscillators. The motions of such oscillators can be decomposed into normal modes, like the vibrational modes of a piano string or the resonances of an organ pipe. On the other hand, equipartition often breaks down for such systems, because there is no exchange of energy between the normal modes. In an extreme situation, the modes are independent and so their energies are independently conserved. This shows that some sort of mixing of energies, formally called \"ergodicity\", is important for the law of equipartition to hold.\n\nPotential energies are not always quadratic in the position. However, the equipartition theorem also shows that if a degree of freedom \"x\" contributes only a multiple of \"x\" (for a fixed real number \"s\") to the energy, then in thermal equilibrium the average energy of that part is \"k\"\"T\"/\"s\".\n\nThere is a simple application of this extension to the sedimentation of particles under gravity. For example, the haze sometimes seen in beer can be caused by clumps of proteins that scatter light. Over time, these clumps settle downwards under the influence of gravity, causing more haze near the bottom of a bottle than near its top. However, in a process working in the opposite direction, the particles also diffuse back up towards the top of the bottle. Once equilibrium has been reached, the equipartition theorem may be used to determine the average position of a particular clump of buoyant mass \"m\". For an infinitely tall bottle of beer, the gravitational potential energy is given by\n\nwhere \"z\" is the height of the protein clump in the bottle and \"g\" is the acceleration due to gravity. Since \"s\" = 1, the average potential energy of a protein clump equals \"k\"\"T\". Hence, a protein clump with a buoyant mass of 10 MDa (roughly the size of a virus) would produce a haze with an average height of about 2 cm at equilibrium. The process of such sedimentation to equilibrium is described by the Mason–Weaver equation.\n\nThe equipartition of kinetic energy was proposed initially in 1843, and more correctly in 1845, by John James Waterston. In 1859, James Clerk Maxwell argued that the kinetic heat energy of a gas is equally divided between linear and rotational energy. In 1876, Ludwig Boltzmann expanded on this principle by showing that the average energy was divided equally among all the independent components of motion in a system. Boltzmann applied the equipartition theorem to provide a theoretical explanation of the Dulong–Petit law for the specific heat capacities of solids.\n\nThe history of the equipartition theorem is intertwined with that of specific heat capacity, both of which were studied in the 19th century. In 1819, the French physicists Pierre Louis Dulong and Alexis Thérèse Petit discovered that the specific heat capacities of solid elements at room temperature were inversely proportional to the atomic weight of the element. Their law was used for many years as a technique for measuring atomic weights. However, subsequent studies by James Dewar and Heinrich Friedrich Weber showed that this Dulong–Petit law holds only at high temperatures; at lower temperatures, or for exceptionally hard solids such as diamond, the specific heat capacity was lower.\n\nExperimental observations of the specific heat capacities of gases also raised concerns about the validity of the equipartition theorem. The theorem predicts that the molar heat capacity of simple monatomic gases should be roughly 3 cal/(mol·K), whereas that of diatomic gases should be roughly 7 cal/(mol·K). Experiments confirmed the former prediction, but found that molar heat capacities of diatomic gases were typically about 5 cal/(mol·K), and fell to about 3 cal/(mol·K) at very low temperatures. Maxwell noted in 1875 that the disagreement between experiment and the equipartition theorem was much worse than even these numbers suggest; since atoms have internal parts, heat energy should go into the motion of these internal parts, making the predicted specific heats of monatomic and diatomic gases much higher than 3 cal/(mol·K) and 7 cal/(mol·K), respectively.\n\nA third discrepancy concerned the specific heat of metals. According to the classical Drude model, metallic electrons act as a nearly ideal gas, and so they should contribute (3/2) \"N\"\"k\" to the heat capacity by the equipartition theorem, where \"N\" is the number of electrons. Experimentally, however, electrons contribute little to the heat capacity: the molar heat capacities of many conductors and insulators are nearly the same.\n\nSeveral explanations of equipartition's failure to account for molar heat capacities were proposed. Boltzmann defended the derivation of his equipartition theorem as correct, but suggested that gases might not be in thermal equilibrium because of their interactions with the aether. Lord Kelvin suggested that the derivation of the equipartition theorem must be incorrect, since it disagreed with experiment, but was unable to show how. In 1900 Lord Rayleigh instead put forward a more radical view that the equipartition theorem and the experimental assumption of thermal equilibrium were \"both\" correct; to reconcile them, he noted the need for a new principle that would provide an \"escape from the destructive simplicity\" of the equipartition theorem. Albert Einstein provided that escape, by showing in 1906 that these anomalies in the specific heat were due to quantum effects, specifically the quantization of energy in the elastic modes of the solid. Einstein used the failure of equipartition to argue for the need of a new quantum theory of matter. Nernst's 1910 measurements of specific heats at low temperatures supported Einstein's theory, and led to the widespread acceptance of quantum theory among physicists.\n\nThe most general form of the equipartition theorem states that under suitable assumptions (discussed below), for a physical system with Hamiltonian energy function \"H\" and degrees of freedom \"x\", the following equipartition formula holds in thermal equilibrium for all indices \"m\" and \"n\":\n\nHere \"δ\" is the Kronecker delta, which is equal to one if \"m\" = \"n\" and is zero otherwise. The averaging brackets formula_8 is assumed to be an ensemble average over phase space or, under an assumption of ergodicity, a time average of a single system.\n\nThe general equipartition theorem holds in both the microcanonical ensemble, when the total energy of the system is constant, and also in the canonical ensemble, when the system is coupled to a heat bath with which it can exchange energy. Derivations of the general formula are given later in the article.\n\nThe general formula is equivalent to the following two:\n\nIf a degree of freedom \"x\" appears only as a quadratic term \"ax\" in the Hamiltonian \"H\", then the first of these formulae implies that\nwhich is twice the contribution that this degree of freedom makes to the average energy formula_15. Thus the equipartition theorem for systems with quadratic energies follows easily from the general formula. A similar argument, with 2 replaced by \"s\", applies to energies of the form \"ax\".\n\nThe degrees of freedom \"x are coordinates on the phase space of the system and are therefore commonly subdivided into generalized position coordinates \"q\" and generalized momentum coordinates \"p\", where \"p\" is the conjugate momentum to \"q\". In this situation, formula 1 means that for all \"k\",\n\nUsing the equations of Hamiltonian mechanics, these formulae may also be written\n\nSimilarly, one can show using formula 2 that\n\nand\n\nThe general equipartition theorem is an extension of the virial theorem (proposed in 1870), which states that\n\nwhere \"t\" denotes time. Two key differences are that the virial theorem relates \"summed\" rather than \"individual\" averages to each other, and it does not connect them to the temperature \"T\". Another difference is that traditional derivations of the virial theorem use averages over time, whereas those of the equipartition theorem use averages over phase space.\n\nIdeal gases provide an important application of the equipartition theorem. As well as providing the formula\nfor the average kinetic energy per particle, the equipartition theorem can be used to derive the ideal gas law from classical mechanics. If q = (\"q\", \"q\", \"q\") and p = (\"p\", \"p\", \"p\") denote the position vector and momentum of a particle in the gas, and\nF is the net force on that particle, then\nwhere the first equality is Newton's second law, and the second line uses Hamilton's equations and the equipartition formula. Summing over a system of \"N\" particles yields\n\nBy Newton's third law and the ideal gas assumption, the net force on the system is the force applied by the walls of their container, and this force is given by the pressure \"P\" of the gas. Hence\n\nwhere d\"S\" is the infinitesimal area element along the walls of the container. Since the divergence of the position vector q is\n\nthe divergence theorem implies that\n\nwhere d\"V\" is an infinitesimal volume within the container and \"V\" is the total volume of the container.\n\nPutting these equalities together yields\n\nwhich immediately implies the ideal gas law for \"N\" particles:\n\nwhere \"n\" = \"N\"/\"N\" is the number of moles of gas and \"R\" = \"N\"\"k\" is the gas constant. Although equipartition provides a simple derivation of the ideal-gas law and the internal energy, the same results can be obtained by an alternative method using the partition function.\n\nA diatomic gas can be modelled as two masses, \"m\" and \"m\", joined by a spring of stiffness \"a\", which is called the \"rigid rotor-harmonic oscillator approximation\". The classical energy of this system is\n\nwhere p and p are the momenta of the two atoms, and \"q\" is the deviation of the inter-atomic separation from its equilibrium value. Every degree of freedom in the energy is quadratic and, thus, should contribute \"k\"\"T\" to the total average energy, and \"k\" to the heat capacity. Therefore, the heat capacity of a gas of \"N\" diatomic molecules is predicted to be 7\"N\"·\"k\": the momenta p and p contribute three degrees of freedom each, and the extension \"q\" contributes the seventh. It follows that the heat capacity of a mole of diatomic molecules with no other degrees of freedom should be (7/2)\"N\"\"k\" = (7/2)\"R\" and, thus, the predicted molar heat capacity should be roughly 7 cal/(mol·K). However, the experimental values for molar heat capacities of diatomic gases are typically about 5 cal/(mol·K) and fall to 3 cal/(mol·K) at very low temperatures. This disagreement between the equipartition prediction and the experimental value of the molar heat capacity cannot be explained by using a more complex model of the molecule, since adding more degrees of freedom can only \"increase\" the predicted specific heat, not decrease it. This discrepancy was a key piece of evidence showing the need for a quantum theory of matter.\n\nEquipartition was used above to derive the classical ideal gas law from Newtonian mechanics. However, relativistic effects become dominant in some systems, such as white dwarfs and neutron stars, and the ideal gas equations must be modified. The equipartition theorem provides a convenient way to derive the corresponding laws for an extreme relativistic ideal gas. In such cases, the kinetic energy of a single particle is given by the formula\n\nTaking the derivative of \"H\" with respect to the \"p\" momentum component gives the formula\n\nand similarly for the \"p\" and \"p\" components. Adding the three components together gives\n\nwhere the last equality follows from the equipartition formula. Thus, the average total energy of an extreme relativistic gas is twice that of the non-relativistic case: for \"N\" particles, it is 3 \"Nk\"\"T\".\n\nIn an ideal gas the particles are assumed to interact only through collisions. The equipartition theorem may also be used to derive the energy and pressure of \"non-ideal gases\" in which the particles also interact with one another through conservative forces whose potential \"U\"(\"r\") depends only on the distance \"r\" between the particles. This situation can be described by first restricting attention to a single gas particle, and approximating the rest of the gas by a spherically symmetric distribution. It is then customary to introduce a radial distribution function \"g\"(\"r\") such that the probability density of finding another particle at a distance \"r\" from the given particle is equal to 4π\"r\"\"ρg\"(\"r\"), where \"ρ\" = \"N\"/\"V\" is the mean density of the gas. It follows that the mean potential energy associated to the interaction of the given particle with the rest of the gas is\n\nThe total mean potential energy of the gas is therefore formula_34, where \"N\" is the number of particles in the gas, and the factor is needed because summation over all the particles counts each interaction twice.\nAdding kinetic and potential energies, then applying equipartition, yields the \"energy equation\"\n\nA similar argument, can be used to derive the \"pressure equation\"\n\nAn anharmonic oscillator (in contrast to a simple harmonic oscillator) is one in which the potential energy is not quadratic in the extension \"q\" (the generalized position which measures the deviation of the system from equilibrium). Such oscillators provide a complementary point of view on the equipartition theorem. Simple examples are provided by potential energy functions of the form\n\nwhere \"C\" and \"s\" are arbitrary real constants. In these cases, the law of equipartition predicts that\n\nThus, the average potential energy equals \"k\"\"T\"/\"s\", not \"k\"\"T\"/2 as for the quadratic harmonic oscillator (where \"s\" = 2).\n\nMore generally, a typical energy function of a one-dimensional system has a Taylor expansion in the extension \"q\":\n\nfor non-negative integers \"n\". There is no \"n\" = 1 term, because at the equilibrium point, there is no net force and so the first derivative of the energy is zero. The \"n\" = 0 term need not be included, since the energy at the equilibrium position may be set to zero by convention. In this case, the law of equipartition predicts that\n\nIn contrast to the other examples cited here, the equipartition formula\ndoes \"not\" allow the average potential energy to be written in terms of known constants.\n\nThe equipartition theorem can be used to derive the Brownian motion of a particle from the Langevin equation. According to that equation, the motion of a particle of mass \"m\" with velocity v is governed by Newton's second law\n\nwhere F is a random force representing the random collisions of the particle and the surrounding molecules, and where the time constant τ reflects the drag force that opposes the particle's motion through the solution. The drag force is often written F = −γv; therefore, the time constant τ equals \"m\"/γ.\n\nThe dot product of this equation with the position vector r, after averaging, yields the equation\n\nfor Brownian motion (since the random force F is uncorrelated with the position r). Using the mathematical identities\n\nand\n\nthe basic equation for Brownian motion can be transformed into\n\nwhere the last equality follows from the equipartition theorem for translational kinetic energy:\n\nThe above differential equation for formula_48 (with suitable initial conditions) may be solved exactly:\n\nOn small time scales, with \"t\" « \"τ\", the particle acts as a freely moving particle: by the Taylor series of the exponential function, the squared distance grows approximately \"quadratically\":\n\nHowever, on long time scales, with \"t\" » \"τ\", the exponential and constant terms are negligible, and the squared distance grows only \"linearly\":\n\nThis describes the diffusion of the particle over time. An analogous equation for the rotational diffusion of a rigid molecule can be derived in a similar way.\n\nThe equipartition theorem and the related virial theorem have long been used as a tool in astrophysics. As examples, the virial theorem may be used to estimate stellar temperatures or the Chandrasekhar limit on the mass of white dwarf stars.\n\nThe average temperature of a star can be estimated from the equipartition theorem. Since most stars are spherically symmetric, the total gravitational potential energy can be estimated by integration\n\nwhere \"M\"(\"r\") is the mass within a radius \"r\" and \"ρ\"(\"r\") is the stellar density at radius \"r\"; \"G\" represents the gravitational constant and \"R\" the total radius of the star. Assuming a constant density throughout the star, this integration yields the formula\n\nwhere \"M\" is the star's total mass. Hence, the average potential energy of a single particle is\n\nwhere \"N\" is the number of particles in the star. Since most stars are composed mainly of ionized hydrogen, \"N\" equals roughly \"M\"/\"m\", where \"m\" is the mass of one proton. Application of the equipartition theorem gives an estimate of the star's temperature\n\nSubstitution of the mass and radius of the Sun yields an estimated solar temperature of \"T\" = 14 million kelvins, very close to its core temperature of 15 million kelvins. However, the Sun is much more complex than assumed by this model—both its temperature and density vary strongly with radius—and such excellent agreement (≈7% relative error) is partly fortuitous.\n\nThe same formulae may be applied to determining the conditions for star formation in giant molecular clouds. A local fluctuation in the density of such a cloud can lead to a runaway condition in which the cloud collapses inwards under its own gravity. Such a collapse occurs when the equipartition theorem—or, equivalently, the virial theorem—is no longer valid, i.e., when the gravitational potential energy exceeds twice the kinetic energy\n\nAssuming a constant density ρ for the cloud\n\nyields a minimum mass for stellar contraction, the Jeans mass \"M\"\n\nSubstituting the values typically observed in such clouds (\"T\" = 150 K, ρ = 2 g/cm) gives an estimated minimum mass of 17 solar masses, which is consistent with observed star formation. This effect is also known as the Jeans instability, after the British physicist James Hopwood Jeans who published it in 1902.\n\nThe original formulation of the equipartition theorem states that, in any physical system in thermal equilibrium, every particle has exactly the same average kinetic energy, (3/2)\"k\"\"T\". This may be shown using the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution (see Figure 2), which is the probability distribution\n\nfor the speed of a particle of mass \"m\" in the system, where the speed \"v\" is the magnitude formula_60 of the velocity vector formula_61\n\nThe Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution applies to any system composed of atoms, and assumes only a canonical ensemble, specifically, that the kinetic energies are distributed according to their Boltzmann factor at a temperature \"T\". The average kinetic energy for a particle of mass \"m\" is then given by the integral formula\n\nas stated by the equipartition theorem. The same result can also be obtained by averaging the particle energy using the probability of finding the particle in certain quantum energy state.\n\nMore generally, the equipartition theorem states that any degree of freedom \"x\" which appears in the total energy \"H\" only as a simple quadratic term \"Ax\", where \"A\" is a constant, has an average energy of ½\"k\"\"T\" in thermal equilibrium. In this case the equipartition theorem may be derived from the partition function \"Z\"(\"β\"), where \"β\" = 1/(\"k\"\"T\") is the canonical inverse temperature. Integration over the variable \"x\" yields a factor\n\nin the formula for \"Z\". The mean energy associated with this factor is given by\n\nas stated by the equipartition theorem.\n\nGeneral derivations of the equipartition theorem can be found in many statistical mechanics textbooks, both for the microcanonical ensemble and for the canonical ensemble.\nThey involve taking averages over the phase space of the system, which is a symplectic manifold.\n\nTo explain these derivations, the following notation is introduced. First, the phase space is described in terms of generalized position coordinates \"q\" together with their conjugate momenta \"p\". The quantities \"q\" completely describe the configuration of the system, while the quantities (\"q\",\"p\") together completely describe its state.\n\nSecondly, the infinitesimal volume\n\nof the phase space is introduced and used to define the volume Σ(\"E\", Δ\"E\") of the portion of phase space where the energy \"H\" of the system lies between two limits, \"E\" and \"E\" + Δ\"E\":\n\nIn this expression, Δ\"E\" is assumed to be very small, Δ\"E\" « \"E\". Similarly, Ω(\"E\") is defined to be the total volume of phase space where the energy is less than \"E\":\n\nSince Δ\"E\" is very small, the following integrations are equivalent\n\nwhere the ellipses represent the integrand. From this, it follows that Γ is proportional to Δ\"E\"\n\nwhere \"ρ\"(\"E\") is the density of states. By the usual definitions of statistical mechanics, the entropy \"S\" equals \"k\" log \"Ω\"(\"E\"), and the temperature \"T\" is defined by\n\nIn the canonical ensemble, the system is in thermal equilibrium with an infinite heat bath at temperature \"T\" (in kelvins). The probability of each state in phase space is given by its Boltzmann factor times a normalization factor formula_71, which is chosen so that the probabilities sum to one\n\nwhere \"β\" = 1/\"k\"\"T\". Integration by parts for a phase-space variable \"x\" (which could be either \"q\" or \"p\") between two limits \"a\" and \"b\" yields the equation\n\nwhere d\"Γ\" = d\"Γ\"/d\"x\", i.e., the first integration is not carried out over \"x\". The first term is usually zero, either because \"x\" is zero at the limits, or because the energy goes to infinity at those limits. In that case, the equipartition theorem for the canonical ensemble follows immediately\n\nHere, the averaging symbolized by formula_75 is the ensemble average taken over the canonical ensemble.\n\nIn the microcanonical ensemble, the system is isolated from the rest of the world, or at least very weakly coupled to it. Hence, its total energy is effectively constant; to be definite, we say that the total energy \"H\" is confined between \"E\" and \"E\"+d\"E\". For a given energy \"E\" and spread d\"E\", there is a region of phase space Σ in which the system has that energy, and the probability of each state in that region of phase space is equal, by the definition of the microcanonical ensemble. Given these definitions, the equipartition average of phase-space variables \"x\" (which could be either \"q\"or \"p\") and \"x\" is given by\n\nwhere the last equality follows because \"E\" is a constant that does not depend on \"x\". Integrating by parts yields the relation\n\nsince the first term on the right hand side of the first line is zero (it can be rewritten as an integral of \"H\" − \"E\" on the hypersurface where \"H\" = \"E\").\n\nSubstitution of this result into the previous equation yields\n\nSince formula_79 the equipartition theorem follows:\n\nThus, we have derived the general formulation of the equipartition theorem\n\nwhich was so useful in the applications described above.\n\nThe law of equipartition holds only for ergodic systems in thermal equilibrium, which implies that all states with the same energy must be equally likely to be populated. Consequently, it must be possible to exchange energy among all its various forms within the system, or with an external heat bath in the canonical ensemble. The number of physical systems that have been rigorously proven to be ergodic is small; a famous example is the hard-sphere system of Yakov Sinai. The requirements for isolated systems to ensure ergodicity—and, thus equipartition—have been studied, and provided motivation for the modern chaos theory of dynamical systems. A chaotic Hamiltonian system need not be ergodic, although that is usually a good assumption.\n\nA commonly cited counter-example where energy is \"not\" shared among its various forms and where equipartition does \"not\" hold in the microcanonical ensemble is a system of coupled harmonic oscillators. If the system is isolated from the rest of the world, the energy in each normal mode is constant; energy is not transferred from one mode to another. Hence, equipartition does not hold for such a system; the amount of energy in each normal mode is fixed at its initial value. If sufficiently strong nonlinear terms are present in the energy function, energy may be transferred between the normal modes, leading to ergodicity and rendering the law of equipartition valid. However, the Kolmogorov–Arnold–Moser theorem states that energy will not be exchanged unless the nonlinear perturbations are strong enough; if they are too small, the energy will remain trapped in at least some of the modes.\n\nAnother way ergodicity can be broken is by the existence of nonlinear soliton symmetries. In 1953, Fermi, Pasta, Ulam and Tsingou conducted computer simulations of a vibrating string that included a non-linear term (quadratic in one test, cubic in another, and a piecewise linear approximation to a cubic in a third). They found that the behavior of the system was quite different from what intuition based on equipartition would have led them to expect. Instead of the energies in the modes becoming equally shared, the system exhibited a very complicated quasi-periodic behavior. This puzzling result was eventually explained by Kruskal and Zabusky in 1965 in a paper which, by connecting the simulated system to the Korteweg–de Vries equation led to the development of soliton mathematics.\n\nThe law of equipartition breaks down when the thermal energy \"kT\" is significantly smaller than the spacing between energy levels. Equipartition no longer holds because it is a poor approximation to assume that the energy levels form a smooth continuum, which is required in the derivations of the equipartition theorem above. Historically, the failures of the classical equipartition theorem to explain specific heats and blackbody radiation were critical in showing the need for a new theory of matter and radiation, namely, quantum mechanics and quantum field theory.\n\nTo illustrate the breakdown of equipartition, consider the average energy in a single (quantum) harmonic oscillator, which was discussed above for the classical case. Neglecting the irrelevant zero-point energy term, its quantum energy levels are given by \"E = nhν\", where \"h\" is the Planck constant, \"ν\" is the fundamental frequency of the oscillator, and \"n\" is an integer. The probability of a given energy level being populated in the canonical ensemble is given by its Boltzmann factor\n\nwhere \"β\" = 1/\"k\"\"T\" and the denominator \"Z\" is the partition function, here a geometric series\n\nIts average energy is given by\n\nSubstituting the formula for \"Z\" gives the final result\n\nAt high temperatures, when the thermal energy \"k\"\"T\" is much greater than the spacing \"hν\" between energy levels, the exponential argument \"βhν\" is much less than one and the average energy becomes \"k\"\"T\", in agreement with the equipartition theorem (Figure 10). However, at low temperatures, when \"hν\" » \"k\"\"T\", the average energy goes to zero—the higher-frequency energy levels are \"frozen out\" (Figure 10). As another example, the internal excited electronic states of a hydrogen atom do not contribute to its specific heat as a gas at room temperature, since the thermal energy \"k\"\"T\" (roughly 0.025 eV) is much smaller than the spacing between the lowest and next higher electronic energy levels (roughly 10 eV).\n\nSimilar considerations apply whenever the energy level spacing is much larger than the thermal energy. This reasoning was used by Max Planck and Albert Einstein, among others, to resolve the ultraviolet catastrophe of blackbody radiation. The paradox arises because there are an infinite number of independent modes of the electromagnetic field in a closed container, each of which may be treated as a harmonic oscillator. If each electromagnetic mode were to have an average energy \"k\"\"T\", there would be an infinite amount of energy in the container. However, by the reasoning above, the average energy in the higher-frequency modes goes to zero as \"ν\" goes to infinity; moreover, Planck's law of black body radiation, which describes the experimental distribution of energy in the modes, follows from the same reasoning.\n\nOther, more subtle quantum effects can lead to corrections to equipartition, such as identical particles and continuous symmetries. The effects of identical particles can be dominant at very high densities and low temperatures. For example, the valence electrons in a metal can have a mean kinetic energy of a few electronvolts, which would normally correspond to a temperature of tens of thousands of kelvins. Such a state, in which the density is high enough that the Pauli exclusion principle invalidates the classical approach, is called a degenerate fermion gas. Such gases are important for the structure of white dwarf and neutron stars. At low temperatures, a fermionic analogue of the Bose–Einstein condensate (in which a large number of identical particles occupy the lowest-energy state) can form; such superfluid electrons are responsible for superconductivity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4810776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4810776", "title": "Ethical trade", "text": "Ethical trade\n\nThe term \"ethical trade\" first gained currency in the mid-1990s, where it was used as a term for socially responsible sourcing. Ethical trade addresses the ethical aspects of organisations including worker welfare, agricultural practice, natural resource conservation, and sustainability of the environment. Since then, numerous multinational organisations have adopted ethical trade policies by outsourcing to auditing companies to monitor the conditions of workers in their supply chains. The leading alliance of these companies, trade unions and non-governmental organisations is the Ethical Trading Initiative. to support business\n\nEthical Trading Initiative (ETI) is a UK-based organisation that reaches out to 9.8 million workers per year. Since their inception in 1998, they have supported ethical trade in global supply chains by introducing legal protection for 600,000 migrant workers in the UK, aided movements for the increase of real wages in parts of Bangladesh, and contributed to more than 133,000 improvements to the welfare of workers worldwide. ETI are committed to implementing ethical trade by enforcing corporates to implement the ETI base code in their supply chains. The ETI base code reflects the commitment to ethical trade by stipulating the need for freely chosen employment, freedom of association, safe working conditions, and reasonable working hours.\n\nIn 2011, the UN Human Rights Council endorsed a set of principles known as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in an attempt to address the issue of human rights in businesses. The principles were proposed by Professor John Ruggie from Harvard University after six years of research. They are based on 47 consultations and site visits in more than 20 countries, and involve governments, companies, business associations, civil society, and investors. They have been considered \"an authoritative global reference point for business and human rights\" by Oxfam and implement ethical trade by ensuring that governments and companies have a collective responsibility to protect human rights in business enterprises.\n\nThe International Labour Organization (ILO) is a specialised agency of the United Nations dedicated to improving the standards of living of workers throughout the world. Established in 1919, the ILO have made significant contributions in addressing issues such as excessive working hours, unemployment, minimum age, and work for women. The tripartite structure of the ILO is unique in that it ensures employees and workers have an equal voice alongside governments in terms of addressing ILO's policies and programs. They aim to adopt international labour standards in member states regarding the ethical aspects of business practices, including the abolition of forced labour, workplace discrimination, and the protection of migrant workers.\n\nOn 17 September 2014, over 500 textile workers rallied for an increase in minimum wages in the industrial suburb of Phnom Penh, Cambodia. The frequent protests regarding the poor working conditions and decline in real wages have become a critical issue for the Cambodian Prime Minister, as the prolonged strikes could result in reduced orders from retail firms such as Gap Inc, Nike and H & M that outsource to Cambodian factories. Recent findings gathered from workers indicate that over 33% of garment workers are medically underweight, earning around £51 per month as minimum wage, and subjected to the conditions of modern-day slavery. The general secretory of the Trade Union Congress, Frances O'Grady, stated that \"European-based corporations have a responsibility to ensure that workers' rights are respected in their supply chains.\" Hence outlining the need for ethical trade practices.\n\nThe death of a temporary foreign worker, Ivan Guerrero, on a farm in Quebec once again raised questions about the working conditions of migrants. Gurrerro expressed the hardships he faced through a video he recorded in 2013 with Somos Hermanos, a group dedicated to improving the conditions of migrant workers. In the video Guerrero makes reference to excessive working hours, unpaid overtime, and lack of freedom. In response to the complaint, Guerrero's employer declined a formal interview. Instead stating that \"they were hired to work and not to party\" and that he did not call the police as he failed to realise Guerrero was missing.\n\nThe number of cases of human trafficking involving forced labour has increased to 42% in England and Wales, a 2011 study from The Salvation Army reported. According to Karen Bradley, the minister for modern slavery and organised crime, \"there are more people in slavery today than at any other time in human history.\" Over 80% of the cases of forced labour involved men, with the majority of victims contacting the charity from parts of Eastern Europe. Bradley said the move towards eliminating modern slavery would include a modern slavery bill going to Parliament, placing a weighty responsibility on large companies to ensure that their supply chains are free from slavery.\n\nIn 2006, findings published by the Institute of Development Studies at Sussex University showed that the ETI base code, signed by some of Britain's leading companies, failed to prevent the exploitation of workers in their supply chains. British and foreign workers employed by companies such as Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Gap Inc. and Sainsbury's were treated harshly by their employees, remained on low incomes, and had no union representation. The authors of the study stated that \"in general codes had almost no impact in terms of ensuring workers receive a living wage\" and urged British retailers to \"take responsibility for ensuring prices paid to suppliers are sufficient to cover labour costs based on a living wage.\" Therefore, raising questions on whether ethical trade has had any impact on the conditions of workers in disadvantaged areas.\n\nHowever, the Institute of Development Studies also concluded that there have been some major improvements for workers. Neil Kearney, General Secretary of the International, Textile, Garment and Leather Workers’ Federation, stated that progress had been made \"particularly with regard to the issues of health and safety and child labour.\" In Vietnam, local communities have benefited from improvements to health and safety as well as reductions in working hours. Improvements have also been made particularly in regards to fire safety, medical services, and infrastructure. In South Africa two farms implemented a policy on ethical treatment due to the ETI base code, but major improvements are still yet to be made in regards to child labour, trade unions, and communication between farms and organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5392947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5392947", "title": "Fear of crime", "text": "Fear of crime\n\nThe fear of crime refers to the fear of being a victim of crime as opposed to the actual probability of being a victim of crime. \nThe fear of crime, along with fear of the streets and the fear of youth, is said to have been in Western culture for \"time immemorial\". While fear of crime can be differentiated into public feelings, thoughts and behaviors about the personal risk of criminal victimization, distinctions can also be made between the tendency to see situations as fearful, the actual experience while in those situations, and broader expressions about the cultural and social significance of crime and symbols of crime in people's neighborhoods and in their daily, symbolic lives.\n\nImportantly, feelings, thoughts and behaviors can have a number of functional and dysfunctional effects on individual and group life, depending on actual risk and people's subjective approaches to danger. On a negative side, they can erode public health and psychological well-being; they can alter routine activities and habits; they can contribute to some places turning into 'no-go' areas via a withdrawal from community; and they can drain community cohesion, trust and neighborhood stability. Some degree of emotional response can be healthy: psychologists have long highlighted the fact that some degree of worry can be a problem-solving activity, motivating care and precaution, underlining the distinction between low-level anxieties that motivate caution and counter-productive worries that damage well-being.\n\nFactors influencing the fear of crime include the psychology of risk perception, circulating representations of the risk of victimization (chiefly via interpersonal communication and the mass media), public perceptions of neighborhood stability and breakdown, the influence of neighbourhood context, and broader factors where anxieties about crime express anxieties about the pace and direction of social change. There are also some wider cultural influences. For example, some have argued that modern times have left people especially sensitive to issues of safety and insecurity.\n\nFear of crime has had a profound impact on the U.S. incarceration rate, having inspired the \"tough on crime\" policies of the 1980s that led to Draconian sentences being widespread. It should be noted that crime rates started decreasing before the new sentencing policies were implemented. Also significant is how despite the decrease in crime, media coverage of crime increased by 600% between 1998 and 2008. The media's \"culture of fear\" has largely been dominated by frequent stories of crime and punishment.\n\nThe core aspect of fear of crime is the range of emotions that is provoked in citizens by the possibility of victimization. While people may feel angry and outraged about the extent and prospect of crime, surveys typically ask people \"who they are afraid of\" and \"how worried they are\". Underlying the answers that people give are (more often than not) two dimensions of 'fear': (a) those everyday moments of worry that transpire when one feels personally threatened; and (b) some more diffuse or 'ambient' anxiety about risk. While standard measures of worry about crime regularly show between 30% and 50% of the population of England and Wales express some kind of worry about falling victim, probing reveals that few individuals actually worry for their own safety on an everyday basis. One thus can distinguish between fear (an emotion, a feeling of alarm or dread caused by an awareness or expectation of danger) and some broader anxiety. However it should be noted that some people may be more willing to admit their worries and vulnerabilities than others.\n\nConcern about crime can be differentiated from perceptions of the risk of personal victimization (i.e. cognitive aspects of fear of crime). Concern about crime includes public assessments of the size of the crime problem. An example of a question that could be asked is whether crime has increased, decreased or stayed the same in a certain period (and/or in a certain area, for instance the respondents own neighborhood). Between 1972 and 2001, the Gallup Poll shows that American respondents think crime has decreased. By contrast, the cognitive side of fear of crime includes public perceptions of the likelihood of falling victim, public senses of control over the possibility, and public estimations of the seriousness of the consequences of crime. People who feel especially vulnerable to victimization are likely to feel that they are especially likely to be targeted by criminals (i.e. victimization is likely), that they are unable to control the possibility (i.e. they have low self-efficacy), and that the consequences would be especially severe. Additionally, these three different components of risk perception may interact: the impact of perceived likelihood on subsequent emotional response (worry, fear, anxiety, etc.) is likely to be especially strong among those who feel that consequences are high and self-efficacy is low.\n\nA third way to measure fear of crime is to ask people whether they ever avoid certain areas, protect certain objects or take preventive measures. This way, measuring fear of crime can become a relatively straightforward thing, because the questions asked tap into actual behavior and 'objective' facts, such as the amount of money spent on a burglar-alarm or extra locks. Although, some researchers such as Jesse Omoregie argue that measuring fear of crime can be problematic as there are various factors like social desirability effects, respondents downplaying or over-exaggerating their fear which can affect the reliability of data. Some degree of 'fear' might be healthy for some people, creating a 'natural defence' against crime. In short, when the risk of crime is real, a specific level of 'fear' might actually be 'functional': worry about crime might stimulate precaution which then makes people feel safer and lowers their risk of crime. The fear of crime is a very important feature in criminology.\n\nPerhaps the biggest influence on fear of crime is public concern about neighbourhood disorder, social cohesion and collective efficacy. The incidence and risk of crime has become linked with perceived problems of social stability, moral consensus, and the collective informal control processes that underpin the social order of a neighborhood. Such 'day-to-day' issues ('young people hanging around', 'poor community spirit', 'low levels of trust and cohesion') produce information about risk and generate a sense of unease, insecurity and distrust in the environment (incivilities signal a lack of conventional courtesies and low-level social order in public places). Moreover, many people express through their fear of crime some broader concerns about neighbourhood breakdown, the loss of moral authority, and the crumbling of civility and social capital.\n\nPeople can come to different conclusions about the same social and physical environment: two individuals who live next door to each other and share the same neighbourhood can view local disorder quite differently. Why might people have different levels of tolerance or sensitivity to these potentially ambiguous cues? UK research has suggested that broader social anxieties about the pace and direction of social change may shift levels of tolerance to ambiguous stimuli in the environment. Individuals who hold more authoritarian views about law and order, and who are especially concerned about a long-term deterioration of community, may be more likely to perceive disorder in their environment (net of the actual conditions of that environment). They may also be more likely to link these physical cues to problems of social cohesion and consensus, of declining quality of social bonds and informal social control.\n\nHearing about events; knowing others who have been victimised– these are thought to raise perceptions of the risk of victimisation. This has been described as a 'crime multiplier', or processes operating in the residential environment that would 'spread' the impacts of criminal events. Such evidence exists that hearing of friends' or neighbours' victimisation increases anxiety that indirect experiences of crime may play a stronger role in anxieties about victimisation than direct experience. However, there is a cautionary note: '… many residents of a neighbourhood only know of [crime] indirectly via channels that may inflate, deflate, or garble the picture.' A subject's criminal risk perception is exaggerated by peer-communication on crime and only moderated by the own experience.\n\nPublic perceptions of the risk of crime are no doubt also strongly shaped by mass media coverage. Individuals pick up from media and interpersonal communication circulating images of the criminal event - the perpetrators, victims, motive, and representations of consequential, uncontrollable, and sensational crimes. The notion of 'stimulus similarity' may be key: if the reader of a newspaper identifies with the described victim, or feels that their own neighbourhood bears resemblance to the one described, then the image of risk may be taken up, personalised and translated into personal safety concerns.\n\nYet the relationship between fear of crime and mass media is unclear, at least in its causal ordering. To put the dilemma in simple terms: do people fear crime because a lot of crime is being shown on television, or does television just provide footage about crimes because people fear crime and want to see what's going on? The complex nature of crime could allow the media to exploit social naivety, covering crime not only selective, but also distorting the everyday world of crime. Some say the media contribute to the climate of fear that is created, because the actual frequency of victimisation is a tiny fraction of potential crime.\n\nWith crime accounting for up to 25 per cent of news coverage, the quality and angle of the coverage becomes an issue. The media displays violent crime disproportionately, whilst neglecting minor crimes. The reality is violent crime has been declining in the past 10 years The profile of offenders in the media is distorted, causing misunderstanding of criminal offending.\n\nUnfortunately, however, despite an abundant literature on media effects – particularly the 'mean world' hypothesis – little work has been done into how representations, imagery and symbols of crime circulate in society, transmitted and transformed by multiple actors with a wide array of effects, only to translate into personal fears about crime. Perhaps future work will take account of the transmission mechanisms through which representations, beliefs and attitudes about societal risks are propagated in different social and cultural contexts.\n\nFear of crime can also be understood from a social constructionist perspective. The term and concept of fear of crime did not, for example, enter the public or political lexicon until the mid-1960s. That is not to say individuals did not fear crime victimization prior to this period, clearly they did at various points in history to varying degrees. However it demonstrates that fear of crime only became part of a political economy when researchers began to measure and analyse it under the auspice of The US President's Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice which reported in 1967 Once fear of crime had a name it could be deployed as a political tactic in a law and order politics. It also became something that citizens could experience as an emotional response to the threat of victimisation. The formation of a 'fear of crime feedback loop' then allowed more citizens to be surveyed as fearful, more politicians to be able to use crime fear as a political issue, security products to be sold on the back of crime fear and so on in an ever-increasing spiral that popularised crime fear. Moreover, once citizens were seen as being motivated by concerns about crime fear of crime could be used as a responsibilising technique to activate citizens to conduct themeselves or consume products in ways that reduce their vulnerability to crime victimisation. This approach to understanding fear of crime does not deny the experiences of individuals who fear crime victimisation but suggests that such experiences have to be understood as being intimately connected to broader socio-political contexts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6082997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6082997", "title": "Filling-in", "text": "Filling-in\n\nIn vision, filling-in phenomena are those responsible for the completion of missing information across the physiological blind spot, and across natural and artificial scotomata. There is also evidence for similar mechanisms of completion in normal visual analysis. Classical demonstrations of perceptual filling-in involve filling in at the blind spot in monocular vision, and images stabilized on the retina either by means of special lenses, or under certain conditions of steady fixation. For example, naturally in monocular vision at the physiological blind spot, the percept is not a hole in the visual field, but the content is “filled-in” based on information from the surrounding visual field. When a textured stimulus is presented centered on but extending beyond the region of the blind spot, a continuous texture is perceived. This partially inferred percept is paradoxically considered more reliable than a percept based on external input. (Ehinger \"et al.\" 2017).\n\nA second type of example relates to entirely stabilized stimuli. Their colour and lightness fade until they are no longer seen and the area fills in with the colour and lightness of the surrounding region. A famous example of fading under steady fixation is Troxler's fading. When steadily fixating on the central dot for many seconds, the peripheral annulus will fade and will be replaced by the colour or texture of the background. Since the adapted region is actively filled-in with background colour or texture, the phenomenon cannot be fully explained by local processes such as adaptation.\n\nThere is general agreement that edges play a central role in determining the apparent colour and lightness of surfaces through similar filling-in mechanisms. However, the way in which their influence is performed is still unclear. Two different theories have been put forward to explain the filling-in completion phenomenon.\n\nOne theory, addressed as the \"isomorphic filling-in theory\" according to the definition of Von der Heydt, Friedman \"et al.\" (2003), postulates that perception is based on an image representation held in a two dimensional array of neurons, typically arranged retinotopically, in which colour signals spread in all directions except across borders formed by contour activity. The process is thought to be analogous to physical diffusion, with contours acting as diffusion barriers for the colour and brightness signals. An alternative hypothesis is that image information is transformed at the cortical level into an oriented feature representation. Form and colour would be derived at a subsequent stage, not as the result of an isomorphic filling-in process, but as an attribute of an object or proto-object. This theory is called the symbolic filling-in theory.\n\nAccording to the isomorphic filling-in theory, colour is represented by the activity of cells whose receptive fields point at the surface, but it is assumed that these cells receive additional activation through horizontal connections that keeps their activity level high despite mechanisms of lateral inhibition tending to suppress surface activity and despite the transient nature of the afferent signals. The lateral activation comes from receptive fields at contrast borders. These signals are strong because receptive fields are exposed to contrast, and reliable because the border produces continuous light modulation even during fixation, due to small residual eye movements. In the alternative symbolic hypothesis, there is no spreading of activity, but all the information would be carried by the relevant features, that would be tagged with information on contrast polarity, colour and lightness of the surfaces they enclose. Despite the many attempts to verify the two different models by psychophysical and physiological experiments, the mechanisms of colour and lightness filling-in are still debated.\n\nThere are at least three different kinds of experiments whose results support the idea that a real spreading of neural activity in early visual areas is the basis for filling-in of visual information.\n\nKomatsu and colleagues (Komatsu et al., 2000) recorded activity of cells of the blind spot representation in monkey striate cortex (area V1) and found some cells, in layers 4–6, that responded to large stimuli covering the blind spot (the condition under which filling-in is perceived), but not to small stimuli near the blind spot. A neuronal circuitry seems to exist that elaborates and transmits colour and brightness information through the blind region.\n\nThough intriguing, these results cannot be easily generalized to similar phenomena, such as the filling-in of illusory contours or the filling-in through artificial scotomata or adapted edges (such as in the Troxler's effect). All these phenomena are indeed similar, and probably rely on similar neural circuitries but they are not identical. For instance, an obvious difference between filling-in across the blind spot and filling-in of occluded edges is that filling-in across the blind spot is modal (i.e. you literally see the filled-in section), while filling-in across occluders is amodal. Filling-in across the blind spot was found to be different also from filling-in across cortical scotomata in two patients examined by Ramachandran (Ramachandran 1992; Ramachandran, Gregory \"et al.\" 1993). In these subjects, some features filled in the scotoma faster than others, and in some circumstances filling-in took some seconds before it was completed (while filling-in across the blind spot is immediate). Together these data suggested that mechanisms for the filling-in of colours, motion and texture can be dissociated and may correspond to processes in higher-order areas that are specialized for these attributes.\n\nStriking evidence implying a spreading of neural activity like the one postulated by isomorphic filling-in theory is given by experiments of backward masking after brief presentations of uniform surfaces or textures. The working hypothesis of these experiments is that if a response initially biased toward the boundaries fills-in to represent the interiors of uniform surfaces, it may be possible to interfere with the filling-in process and leave the percept at an incomplete stage.\n\nParadiso and Nakayama (1991) performed an experiment to verify this hypothesis. They presented a large disk of uniform brightness on a black background. The stimulus was briefly flashed and, after a variable stimulus offset asynchrony, a masking stimulus was presented. The mask consisted of a circle on a black background with the masking contours positioned within the boundaries of the large uniform disk. This experiment is grounded on the assumption that filling-in consists of a spreading of neural activity from the boundaries of luminance and through the surfaces, that is stopped when another luminance-contrast border is reached (this is proposed by many models of brightness perception, see for example Walls 1954, Gerrits and Vendrik 1970, Cohen and Grossberg 1984), and that the process takes some time to be completed.\n\nSubjects were asked to match the brightness at the centre of the disk with a palette of grey scales. When the delay between target and mask presentation was long enough, the mask had no effect on the apparent brightness of the stimulus, but for stimulus offset asynchronies of 50–100 ms, the surface of the disk inside the masking annulus appeared unfilled. Moreover, the minimum target-mask delay at which the masking was effective increased with target size, suggesting that there would be a spreading phenomenon and that the farther the features delimiting a region, the more time is necessary for the filling-in to be completed. These results are supported also by further experiments on temporal limits of brightness induction in simultaneous contrast (De Valois, Webster \"et al.\" 1986; Rossi and Paradiso 1996; Rossi, Rittenhouse \"et al.\" 1996), as well as by a similar experiment performed by Motoyoshi (1999) on filling-in of texture.\n\nAn isomorphic filling-in theory calls for the existence of surface responsive neurons in early retinotopic visual areas. The activity of such neurons would be raised by elements capable of responding to the luminance of the surface also in the absence of edges; and would be strongly modulated by spreading of activity from the luminance borders enclosing the surface.\n\nElectro-physiological recordings in retinal ganglion cells, LGN and primary visual cortex showed that neurons of these areas responded to luminance modulation within the receptive field even in the absence of contrast borders.\n\nIn a second condition, a uniform grey patch was placed on the receptive field (extending 3–5 degrees beyond the receptive field boundary on either side), and two flanking patches modulated sinusoidally in time from dark to light. With such stimuli, the brightness of the central patch appears to modulate, despite the absence of luminance change. In this condition, cat retinal ganglion cells and lateral geniculate nucleus cells, having their receptive fields centred in the uniform grey patch, did not respond; on the other hand, primary visual cortex neurons were modulated by luminance changes far outside their receptive fields. Together, these results suggest that neurons in the retina and LGN are responsive to luminance modulation, but their response does not correlate with perceived brightness. On the other hand, striate neurons responded to stimulus conditions producing changes in brightness in the area corresponding to the receptive field.\n\nThe behaviour of primary visual cortex neurons seems to be in agreement with the one hypothesized by an isomorphic filling-in theory in that they both respond to luminance of the surfaces also in the absence of borders, and their activity is modulated by that of edges far outside the receptive field. Moreover, when the temporal frequency of luminance modulation in the surrounding patches exceeded a threshold value, the induced response disappeared, suggesting that it was the result of a spreading of activity, taking a finite time to happen, likely explainable in the context of isomorphic filling-in.\n\n\"Perceptual filling-in\", in its simplest definition, is simply the filling-in of information that is not directly given to the sensory input. The missing information is inferred or extrapolated from visual data acquired in a different part of the visual field. Examples of filling-in phenomena include lightness assignment to surfaces from information of contrast across the edges and completion of features and textures across the blind spot, based on the features and textures that are detected in the visible part of the image. In this definition, it is clear that a filling-in process involves a rearrangement of visual information, in which activity in one region of the visual field (i.e. edges) is assigned to other regions (surfaces). In any event, the total amount of information available is not increased, being determined by the retinal input, and any rearrangement of information is useful only if it brings the information contained in the image into a form that is more easily analyzed by our brain.\n\nDennett and Kinsbourne (Dennett 1992; Dennett and Kinsbourne 1992) opposed to the idea that an active filling-in process would take place in our brain on philosophical grounds. They argued that such an idea would be the result of the false belief that in our brain there is a spectator, a sort of homunculus similar to ourselves, needing a filled-in image representation. From a scientific viewpoint, Dennett's homunculus may correspond to higher-order scene representation or decision-making mechanisms. The question is whether or not such mechanisms need a filled in, gap free representation of the image to function optimally (Ramachandran 2003).\n\nThe symbolic filling-in theory postulates that such a \"homunculus\" need not exist, and that image information is transformed at the cortical level into an oriented feature representation. Surface form and colour are not coded at this stage, but would be derived only at a symbolic level of representation, as attributes of objects or proto-objects.\n\nWhen experiencing perceptual filling-in, the colour of an adapted surface is gradually replaced by the colour or texture of outside the surface. Friedman \"et al.\" (Friedman 1998; Friedman, Zhou \"et al.\" 1999) performed an experiment aimed at determining if surface activity of cells in monkey primary visual cortex changed in accordance with perceptual change or simply followed the modulation of the colour presented to the retina. Stimuli consisted of a disk-ring configuration similar to that illustrating the Troxler effect, but where the inner and outer part of the annulus have two physically different colours. After a few seconds of (peripheral) fixation, the disk tends to disappear, whereas the outer contour of the ring is perceived much longer, and the area of the disk is filled-in with the colour of the ring (Krauskopf 1967). These stimuli where intermixed with control stimuli, in which the physical colour of the disk was gradually changed to that of the ring. The animals were instructed to signal a colour change, and their responses to control stimuli and to test stimuli were compared in order to determine if monkeys perceive colour filling-in under steady fixation like humans.\n\nThe authors recorded the activity of surface- and edge-cells (cells whose receptive fields pointed either to the filled-in surface or to the border between the disk and the ring) in the visual cortices V1 and V2 while the monkey was performing the filling-in task. The activity of surface-cells correlated with the physical stimulus change in both areas V1 and V2, but not with the perceived colour change induced by filling-in. The activity of edge-cells followed the stimulus contrast when the disk colour changed physically; when the colours were constant, the edge signals also decayed, but more slowly. Together, the data was incompatible with the isomorphic filling-in theory, which assumes that colour signals spread from the borders into uniform regions.\n\nThe neuronal activity in different brain areas can be recorded in humans through non-invasive techniques, like fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging). Perna \"et al.\" (2005) used fMRI to investigate the neuronal mechanisms responsible for the Craik–O'Brien–Cornsweet illusion. These authors recorded the activity in different brain areas when observers were presented with a Cornsweet visual stimulus, and compared the activities with those elicited by a similar image, which however did not elicit any brightness filling-in.\n\nContrary to the predictions of isomorphic filling-in, these authors found an identical response to the stimulus that induced filling-in and to the control stimulus in early visual cortex.\n\nRecently, Cornelissen \"et al.\" (2006) performed a similar experiment involving the simultaneous contrast illusion. These authors presented observers in an fMRI scan with simultaneous contrast stimuli composed of a central circle of uniform luminance and a peripheral region whose luminance was modulated in time (and also tested other conditions where the modulated and the constant regions were inverted). The brain activity was recorded in primary visual cortex in a retinotopic position corresponding to the perceptually filled-in region. Also in this condition, no activity was found at this level in response to the filled-in signal.\n\n"}
{"id": "29983664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29983664", "title": "Frank S. Emi", "text": "Frank S. Emi\n\nFrank Seishi Emi (September 23, 1916 – December 1, 2010) was a Japanese American civil rights activist. He was a leading figure of the Heart Mountain Fair Play Committee, an ad hoc group who protested the drafting of Japanese Americans incarcerated during World War II. Emi argued it was unconstitutional to conscript men who had been stripped of their civil rights into military service and advised Nisei who received draft orders to demand they be released from camp before reporting for duty. He was convicted of conspiring to violate the Selective Service Act and served eighteen months of a four-year sentence in federal prison. For many years, Emi and his fellow draft resisters were condemned as troublemakers by the Japanese American Citizens League and the larger Japanese American community, but his legacy has more recently come to be seen as an important example of civil disobedience.\n\nFrank Seishi Emi was born in Los Angeles on September 23, 1916. When he was four years old, his family moved to the San Fernando Valley, where they farmed and eventually opened a produce market. He attended San Fernando High School for two years, until his family moved again to open a grocery store in Long Beach. He graduated from Long Beach Polytechnic High School and entered the Los Angeles City College's pharmacy program. After his father was seriously injured in a car accident, Emi left school to run the family's produce market in downtown Los Angeles.\n\nBy 1941, Emi was running a successful business. He had just invested $25,000 to expand the market when Pearl Harbor was attacked on December 7, 1941. He was not immediately worried, recalling later, \"we didn't have an inkling that we ourselves were going to be bothered because we Nisei had been born here in this country and we were citizens.\" However, after Executive Order 9066 put into motion the removal of Japanese Americans from the West Coast, he was forced to sell the family business for $1,500, about six cents for each dollar of the produce market's real value. Emi moved into his parents' house with his wife and two children once evacuation orders began to circulate in early 1942, to ensure the family would not be separated and sent to different camps. They were held at the hastily constructed Pomona Assembly Center for three months, before being sent to the Heart Mountain Relocation Center, halfway between the cities of Cody and Powell in Wyoming, in September 1942.\n\nIn early 1943, the War Relocation Authority began to distribute a \"Leave Clearance Form,\" better known as the loyalty questionnaire because of two controversial questions that attempted to discern the loyalty of imprisoned Japanese Americans. Question 27 asked whether men would be willing to serve in the armed forces, while Question 28 asked inmates to forswear their allegiance to the Emperor of Japan. While many gave unqualified affirmative responses, many, like Emi, were confused and offended by the questions' implications. Emi's response to both was, \"Under the present conditions and circumstances, I am unable to answer this question,\" and he encouraged others to do the same, posting fliers with suggested answers around Heart Mountain. Also in 1943, with new soldiers to replace those who had died in combat in high demand, the previous restrictions against Nisei men (listed as enemy aliens ineligible for service after Pearl Harbor) were set aside in order to create a segregated unit of Japanese American volunteers. Given the nickname \"Go For Broke\" for its soldier's willingness to put their lives at risk in battle, the unit suffered an extremely high casualty rate and soon required fresh troops. A 1944 amendment to the Selective Service Act reinstated the draft for men in camp when only 1,181 inmates volunteered.\n\nEmi and five other Heart Mountain inmates joined Kiyoshi Okamoto, a vocal protestor against the loyalty questionnaire and the incarceration who called himself a \"Fair Play Committee of One,\" to form the Heart Mountain Fair Play Committee. The Committee encouraged other inmates to refuse military service until their full citizenship rights were restored, and held public meetings to discuss the unconstitutionality of their confinement. As more young men joined the Committee and refused to comply with draft orders, the federal government took action.\n\nOn March 25, 1944, twelve Heart Mountain inmates who had not reported for their draft physicals were arrested by U.S. Marshals. Undeterred, more young men followed their example, and Emi and two other Committee members who had not received drafted notices (Emi was married with children) attempted to walk out of camp to highlight their status as prisoners. Later that year, sixty-three Heart Mountain resisters were arrested after failing to show up for their induction and were subsequently tried in federal court and convicted of felony draft evasion and, at the suggestion of the Japanese American Citizens League, whose leaders had lobbied the government to permit Nisei men to join the war effort, the added charge of sedition. A total of 300 draft resisters from Heart Mountain and seven other WRA camps were arrested and stood trial for these charges; almost all served at least two years in federal prison. The seven leaders of the Fair Play Committee, who were not eligible for the draft because of their age or domestic status, were convicted of conspiracy to violate the Selective Service Act and sentenced to four years in federal prison. Emi served 18 months at the U.S. Penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, before his and the other leader's sentences were overturned by a federal appeals court in December 1945.\n\nOutside prison, Emi and his fellow draft resisters found that most of their peers viewed them with disdain and considered their wartime resistance a sign of disloyalty and cowardice, a stain on the Japanese American community in general and the legacy of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team in particular. This stigma would not begin to change until the late 1970s and early 1980s, when a younger generation of Sansei began to push for redress and a reexamination of their parents' and grandparents' wartime experiences. In 2000, the Japanese American Citizens League reversed their stance and offered Emi and the other resisters a formal apology.\n\nAfter the war, Frank Emi worked as a gardener and a grocery clerk before beginning a career with the postal service. After retiring from the post office, he worked at a state unemployment office until 1982. Promoted to 8th-degree black belt in 2008, he was also the head instructor of the Hollywood Judo Dojo and was credited for producing several national judo athletes.\n\nEmi died on December 1, 2010, in West Covina, California, the last surviving member of the Heart Mountain Fair Play Committee.\n"}
{"id": "219447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219447", "title": "German idealism", "text": "German idealism\n\nGerman idealism (also known as post-Kantian idealism, post-Kantian philosophy, or simply post-Kantianism) was a philosophical movement that emerged in Germany in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. It began as a reaction to Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason.\" German idealism was closely linked with both Romanticism and the revolutionary politics of the Enlightenment.\n\nThe most notable thinkers in the movement were Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, and the proponents of Jena Romanticism (Friedrich Hölderlin, Novalis, and Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel). Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi, Gottlob Ernst Schulze, Karl Leonhard Reinhold, Salomon Maimon and Friedrich Schleiermacher also made major contributions.\n\nThe word \"idealism\" has multiple meanings. The philosophical meaning of idealism is that the properties we discover in objects depend on the way that those objects appear to us, as perceiving subjects. These properties only belong to the perceived appearance of the objects, and not something they possess \"in themselves\". The notion of a \"thing in itself\" should be understood here as an option of a set of functions for an operating mind, such that we consider something that appears without respect to the \"specific manner\" in which it appears. The term \"idea-ism\" is closer to this intended meaning than the common notion of idealism. The question of what properties a thing might have \"independently of the mind\" is thus unknowable and a moot point, within the idealist tradition.\n\nKant's work purported to bridge the two dominant philosophical schools in the 18th century: 1) rationalism, which held that knowledge could be attained by reason alone \"a priori\" (prior to experience), and 2) empiricism, which held that knowledge could be arrived at only through the senses \"a posteriori\" (after experience), as expressed by philosopher David Hume, whom Kant sought to rebut. Kant's solution was to propose that while we can know, via sensory experience, particular facts about the world (which he termed phenomena), we cannot know the \"form\" they must take prior to any experience (which he called noumena). That is, we cannot know \"what\" objects we will encounter, but we can know \"how\" we will encounter them. Kant called his mode of philosophising \"critical philosophy\", in that it was supposedly less concerned with setting out positive doctrine than with critiquing the limits to the theories we \"can\" set out. The conclusion he presented, as above, he called \"transcendental idealism\". This distinguished it from classical idealism and subjective idealism such as George Berkeley's, which held that external objects have actual being or real existence only when they are perceived by an observer. Kant said that there are things-in-themselves, noumena, that is, things that exist other than being merely sensations and ideas in our minds. Kant held in the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" that the world of appearances (phenomena) is empirically real and transcendentally ideal. The mind plays a central role in influencing the way that the world is experienced: we perceive phenomena through time, space and the categories of the understanding. It is this notion that was taken to heart by Kant's philosophical successors.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer considered himself to be a transcendental idealist. In his major work \"The World as Will and Representation\" he discusses his indebtedness to Kant, and the work includes Schopenhauer's extensive analysis of the \"Critique\". The Young Hegelians, a number of philosophers who developed Hegel's work in various directions, were in some cases idealists. On the other hand, Karl Marx, who was numbered among them, had professed himself to be a materialist, in opposition to idealism. Another member of the Young Hegelians, Ludwig Feuerbach, advocated for materialism, and his thought was influential in the development of historical materialism, where he is often recognized as a bridge between Hegel and Marx.\n\nKant's transcendental idealism consisted of taking a point of view outside and above oneself (transcendentally) and understanding that the mind directly knows only phenomena or ideas. Whatever exists other than mental phenomena, or ideas that appear to the mind, is a thing-in-itself and cannot be directly and immediately known.\n\nKant had criticized pure reason. He wanted to restrict reasoning, judging, and speaking only to objects of possible experience. The main German Idealists, who had been theology students, reacted against Kant’s stringent limits. \"It was Kant’s criticism of all attempts to prove the existence of God which led to the romantic reaction of Fichte, Schelling, and Hegel.\"\n\nIn 1787, Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi addressed, in his book \"On Faith, or Idealism and Realism\", Kant's concept of \"thing-in-itself\". Jacobi agreed that the objective thing-in-itself cannot be directly known. However, he stated, it must be taken on belief. A subject must believe that there is a real object in the external world that is related to the representation or mental idea that is directly known. This belief is a result of revelation or immediately known, but logically unproved, truth. The real existence of a thing-in-itself is revealed or disclosed to the observing subject. In this way, the subject directly knows the ideal, subjective representations that appear in the mind, and strongly believes in the real, objective thing-in-itself that exists outside the mind. By presenting the external world as an object of belief, Jacobi legitimized belief. \"…[B]y reducing the external world to a matter of faith, he wanted merely to open a little door for faith in general...\"\n\nKarl Leonhard Reinhold published two volumes of \"Letters Concerning the Kantian Philosophy\" in 1790 and 1792. They provided a clear explication of Kant's thoughts, which were previously inaccessible due to Kant's use of complex or technical language.\n\nReinhold also tried to prove Kant's assertion that humans and other animals can know only images that appear in their minds, never \"things-in-themselves\" (things that are not mere appearances in a mind). In order to establish his proof, Reinhold stated an axiom that could not possibly be doubted. From this axiom, all knowledge of consciousness could be deduced. His axiom was: \"Representation is distinguished in consciousness by the subject from the subject and object, and is referred to both.\"\n\nHe thereby started, not from definitions, but, from a principle that referred to mental images or representations in a conscious mind. In this way, he analyzed knowledge into (1) the knowing subject, or observer, (2) the known object, and (3) the image or representation in the subject's mind. In order to understand transcendental idealism, it is necessary to reflect deeply enough to distinguish experience as consisting of these three components: subject, subject's representation of object, and object.\n\nKant noted that a mental idea or representation must be a representation of something, and deduced that it is of something external to the mind. He gave the name of \"Ding an sich\", or thing-in-itself to that which is represented. However, Gottlob Ernst Schulze wrote, anonymously, that the law of cause and effect only applies to the phenomena within the mind, not between those phenomena and any things-in-themselves outside the mind. That is, a thing-in-itself cannot be the cause of an idea or image of a thing in the mind. In this way, he discredited Kant's philosophy by using Kant's own reasoning to disprove the existence of a thing-in-itself.\n\nAfter Schulze had seriously criticized the notion of a thing-in-itself, Johann Gottlieb Fichte (1762–1814) produced a philosophy similar to Kant's, but without a thing-in-itself. Fichte asserted that our representations, ideas, or mental images are merely the productions of our ego, or knowing subject. For him, there is no external thing-in-itself that produces the ideas. On the contrary, the knowing subject, or ego, is the cause of the external thing, object, or non-ego.\n\nFichte's style was a challenging exaggeration of Kant's already difficult writing. Also, Fichte claimed that his truths were apparent to intellectual, non-perceptual, intuition. That is, the truth can be immediately seen by the use of reason.\n\nSchopenhauer, a student of Fichte's, wrote of him:\n\nSchelling attempted to rescue theism from Kant’s refutation of the proofs for God’s existence. \"Now the philosophy of Schelling from the first admitted the possibility of a knowledge of God, although it likewise started from the philosophy of Kant, which denies such knowledge.\" \n\nWith regard to the experience of objects, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling (1775–1854) claimed that the Fichte's \"I\" needs the Not-I, because there is no subject without object, and vice versa. So the ideas or mental images in the mind are identical to the extended objects which are external to the mind. According to Schelling's \"absolute identity\" or \"indifferentism\", there is no difference between the subjective and the objective, that is, the ideal and the real.\n\nIn 1851, Arthur Schopenhauer criticized Schelling's absolute identity of the subjective and the objective, or of the ideal and the real. \"...[E]verything that rare minds like Locke and Kant had separated after an incredible amount of reflection and judgment, was to be again poured into the pap of that absolute identity. For the teaching of those two thinkers [Locke and Kant] may be very appropriately described as the doctrine of the \"absolute diversity of the ideal and the real, or of the subjective and the objective\".\"\n\nFriedrich Schleiermacher was a theologian who asserted that the ideal and the real are united in God. He understood the ideal as the subjective mental activities of thought, intellect, and reason. The real was, for him, the objective area of nature and physical being. Schleiermacher declared that the unity of the ideal and the real is manifested in God. The two divisions do not have a productive or causal effect on each other. Rather, they are both equally existent in the absolute transcendental entity which is God.\n\nSalomon Maimon influenced German idealism by criticizing Kant's dichotomies, claiming that Kant did not explain how opposites such as sensibility and understanding could relate to each other.\nMaimon claimed that the dualism between these faculties was analogous to the old Cartesian dualism between the mind and body, and that all the problems of the older dualism should hold \"mutatis mutandis\" for the new one. Such was the heterogeneity between understanding and sensibility, Maimon further argued, that there could be no criterion to determine how the concepts of the understanding apply to the intuitions of sensibility. By thus pointing out these problematic dualisms, Maimon and the neo-Humean critics left a foothold open for skepticism within the framework of Kant’s own philosophy. For now the question arose how two such heterogeneous realms as the intellectual and the sensible could be known to correspond with one another. The problem was no longer how we know that our representations correspond with things in themselves but how we know that \"a priori\" concepts apply to \"a posteriori\" intuitions.\n\nSchelling and Hegel, however, tried to solve this problem by claiming that opposites are absolutely identical. Maimon's concept of an infinite mind as the basis of all opposites was similar to the German idealistic attempt to rescue theism by positing an Absolute Mind or Spirit.\n\nMaimon’s metaphysical concept of \"infinite mind\" was similar to Fichte’s \"Ich\" and Hegel’s \"Geist.\" Maimon ignored the results of Kant’s criticism and returned to pre-Kantian transcendent speculation. \nWhat characterizes Fichte’s, Schelling’s, and Hegel’s speculative idealism in contrast to Kant's critical idealism is the recurrence of metaphysical ideas from the rationalist tradition. What Kant forbade as a violation of the limits of human knowledge, Fichte, Schelling, and Hegel saw as a necessity of the critical philosophy itself. Now Maimon was the crucial figure behind this transformation. By reviving metaphysical ideas from within the problematic of the critical philosophy, he gave them a new legitimacy and opened up the possibility for a critical resurrection of metaphysics.\n\nMaimon is said to have Influenced Hegel’s writing on Spinoza. \"[T]here seems to be a striking similarity between Maimon’s discussion of Spinoza in the \"Lebensgeschichte\" (Maimon's autobiography) and Hegel’s discussion of Spinoza in the \"Lectures in the History of Philosophy\".\"\n\nGeorg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770–1831) was a German philosopher born in Stuttgart, Württemberg, in present-day southwest Germany. Hegel responded to Kant's philosophy by suggesting that the unsolvable contradictions given by Kant in his Antinomies of Pure Reason applied not only to the four areas Kant gave (world as infinite vs. finite, material as composite vs. atomic, etc.) but in all objects and conceptions, notions and ideas. To know this he suggested makes a \"vital part in a philosophical theory.\" Given that abstract thought is thus limited, he went on to consider how historical formations give rise to different philosophies and ways of thinking. For Hegel, thought fails when it is only given as an abstraction and is not united with considerations of historical reality. In his major work \"The Phenomenology of Spirit\" he went on to trace the formation of self-consciousness through history and the importance of other people in the awakening of self-consciousness (see master-slave dialectic). Thus Hegel introduces two important ideas to metaphysics and philosophy: the integral importance of history and of the Other person. His work is theological in that it replaces the traditional concept of God with that of an Absolute Spirit. Spinoza, who changed the anthropomorphic concept of God into that of an abstract, vague, underlying Substance, was praised by Hegel whose concept of Absolute fulfilled a similar function. Hegel claimed that \"You are either a Spinozist or not a philosopher at all\". Reality results from God’s thinking, according to Hegel. Objects that appear to a spectator originate in God’s mind.\n\nNeo-Kantianism refers broadly to a revived type of philosophy along the lines of that laid down by Immanuel Kant in the 18th century, or more specifically by Schopenhauer's criticism of the Kantian philosophy in his work \"The World as Will and Representation\" (1818), as well as by other post-Kantian philosophers such as Jakob Friedrich Fries and Johann Friedrich Herbart. It has some more specific reference in later German philosophy.\n\nHegel was hugely influential throughout the nineteenth century; by its end, according to Bertrand Russell, \"the leading academic philosophers, both in America and Britain, were largely Hegelian\". His influence has continued in contemporary philosophy but mainly in Continental philosophy.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer contended that Spinoza had a great influence on post-Kantian German idealists. Schopenhauer wrote: \"In consequence of Kant's criticism of all speculative theology, almost all the philosophizers in Germany cast themselves back on to Spinoza, so that the whole series of unsuccessful attempts known by the name of post-Kantian philosophy is simply Spinozism tastelessly got up, veiled in all kinds of unintelligible language, and otherwise twisted and distorted.\"\n\nAccording to Schopenhauer, Kant's original philosophy, with its refutation of all speculative theology, had been transformed by the German Idealists. Through the use of his technical terms, such as \"transcendental,\" \"transcendent,\" \"reason,\" \"intelligibility,\" and \"thing-in-itself\" they attempted to speak of what exists beyond experience and, in this way, to revive the notions of God, free will, and immortality of soul. Kant had effectively relegated these ineffable notions to faith and belief.\n\nIn England, during the nineteenth century, philosopher Thomas Hill Green embraced German Idealism in order to salvage Christian monotheism as a basis for morality. His philosophy attempted to account for an eternal consciousness or mind that was similar to Berkeley's concept of God and Hegel's Absolute. John Rodman, in the introduction to his book on Thomas Hill Green's political theory, wrote: \"Green is best seen as an exponent of German idealism as an answer to the dilemma posed by the discrediting of Christianity….\"\n\n\"German idealism was initially introduced to the broader community of American \"literati\" through a Vermont intellectual, James Marsh. Studying theology with Moses Stuart at Andover Seminary in the early 1820s, Marsh sought a Christian theology that would 'keep alive the heart in the head.' \" Some American theologians and churchmen found value in German Idealism's theological concept of the infinite Absolute Ideal or \"Geist\" [Spirit]. It provided a religious alternative to the traditional Christian concept of the Deity. \"…[P]ost–Kantian idealism can certainly be viewed as a religious school of thought….\" The Absolute Ideal \"Weltgeist\" [World Spirit] was invoked by American ministers as they \"turned to German idealism in the hope of finding comfort against English positivism and empiricism.\" German idealism was a substitute for religion after the Civil War when \"Americans were drawn to German idealism because of a 'loss of faith in traditional cosmic explanations.' \" \"By the early 1870s, the infiltration of German idealism was so pronounced that Walt Whitman declared in his personal notes that 'Only Hegel is fit for America — is large enough and free enough.' \"\n\nAccording to José Ortega y Gasset, with Post-Kantian German Idealism, \"…never before has a lack of truthfulness played such a large and important role in philosophy.\" \"They did whatever they felt like doing with concepts. As if by magic they changed anything into any other thing.\" According to Ortega y Gasset, \"…the basic force behind their work was not strictly and exclusively the desire for truth….\" Ortega y Gasset quoted Schopenhauer's \"Parerga and Paralipomena\", Volume II, in which Schopenhauer wrote that Fichte, Schelling, and Hegel forgot \"the fact that one can feel an authentic and bitter seriousness\" for philosophy. Schopenhauer, in Ortega y Gasset's quote, hoped that philosophers like those three men could learn \"true and fruitful seriousness, such that the problem of existence would capture the thinker and bestir his innermost being.\"\n\nGeorge Santayana had strongly-held opinions regarding this attempt to overcome the effects of Kant's transcendental idealism.\n\nIn the first sentence of his \"The Refutation of Idealism\", G. E. Moore wrote: \"Modern Idealism, if it asserts any general conclusion about the universe at all, asserts that it is spiritual,\" by which he means \"that the whole universe possesses all the qualities the possession of which is held to make us so superior to things which seem to be inanimate.\" He does not directly confront this conclusion, and instead focuses on what he considers the distinctively Idealist premise that \"esse is percipere\" or that to be is to be perceived. He analyzes this idea and considers it to conflate ideas or be contradictory.\n\nSlavoj Žižek sees German Idealism as the pinnacle of modern philosophy, and as a tradition that contemporary philosophy must recapture: \"[T]here is a unique philosophical moment in which philosophy appears 'as such' and which serves as a key—as the only key—to reading the entire preceding and following tradition as philosophy... This moment is the moment of German Idealism...\"\n\nHannah Arendt stated that Immanuel Kant distinguished between \"Vernunft\" (\"reason\") and \"Verstand\" (\"intellect\"): these two categories are equivalents of \"the urgent need of\" reason, and the \"mere quest and desire for knowledge\". Differentiating between reason and intellect, or the need to reason and the quest for knowledge, as Kant has done, according to Arendt \"coincides with a distinction between two altogether different mental activities, thinking and knowing, and two altogether different concerns, meaning, in the first category, and cognition, in the second\". These ideas were also developed by Kantian philosopher, Wilhelm Windelband, in his discussion of the approaches to knowledge named \"nomothetic\" and \"idiographic\".\n\nKant's insight to start differentiating between approaches to knowledge that attempt to understand meaning (derived from reason), on the one hand, and to derive laws (on which knowledge is based), on the other, started to make room for \"speculative thought\" (which in this case, is not seen as a negative aspect, but rather an indication that knowledge and the effort to derive laws to explain objective phenomena has been separated from \"thinking\"). This new-found room for \"speculative thought\" (reason, or thinking) touched-off the rise of German idealism. However, the new-found \"speculative thought\", reason or thinking of German idealism \"again became a field for a new brand of specialists committed to the notion that philosophy's 'subject proper' is 'the actual knowledge of what truly is'. Liberated by Kant from the old school of dogmatism and its sterile exercises, they erected not only new systems but a new 'science' - the original title of the greatest of their works, Hegel's \"Phenomenology of the mind\", was \"Science of the experience of consciousness\" - eagerly blurring Kant's distinction between reason's concern with the unknowable and the intellect's concern with cognition. Pursuing the Cartesian ideal of certainty as though Kant had never existed, they believed in all earnest that the results of their speculations possessed the same kind of validity as the results of cognitive processes\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3817992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3817992", "title": "Giving circle", "text": "Giving circle\n\nA giving circle is a form of participatory philanthropy where groups of individuals donate their own money or time to a pooled fund, decide together where to give these away to charity or community projects and, in doing so, seek to increase their awareness of and engagement in the issues covered by the charity or community project. Many circles, in addition to donating their money, also contribute their time and skills to support local causes.\n\nThe current manifestation of giving circles is a relatively new trend, but it is built on traditions dating back hundreds of years to mutual aid societies and other forms of giving for the community. In the United States, giving circles were initially composed of women; they are now more diverse in race, age and gender, although women continue to make up the majority of members.\n\nThe structure of the circles can be informal or formal. On the informal side, circles may vote and choose an organization to support and each member writes an individual check. Formal circles may have their money housed at a local community foundation and have staff that support the work of the circle. Giving circles can range in size from a handful of members to several hundred.\n\nIndividual donors who join or form a giving circle typically seek to build community within their circle through social events, in addition to the economic impacts of the groups.\n\nIn a 2007 study, the Forum of Regional Associations of Grantmakers' New Ventures in Philanthropy initiative identified approximately 400 giving circles in the United States, more than double the number from two years earlier.\n\nA survey of 160 circles, published in 2008, found they had leveraged nearly $100 million, $13 million of this in 2006 alone. Nearly 12,000 people took part in the 160 giving circles surveyed. Nearly half of circles have male participants, and the popularity of giving circles is also growing among racial, ethnic and tribal communities as well as in the gay and lesbian community.\n\nAnother study conducted in 2005 by Angela M. Eikenberry, an associate professor at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, found that giving circles generally bring both long-time and new philanthropists to organized philanthropy. For both groups, participation seems to increase levels of giving while bringing “new money” to the nonprofit sector; especially to small and locally based organizations. Members also seem to learn about and give to organizations and individuals, and in areas of interest, they most likely would not have given to otherwise. In addition, members are more thoughtful, focused and strategic in their personal giving because of educational experiences in the giving circle. These findings are based on 30 interviews with giving circle participants, staff, and philanthropic professionals working with giving circles, document analysis, and secondary data.\n\nResearch by Eikenberry and Jessica Bearman, published in 2009, and largely based on a survey of giving circle members compared to a control group, found that giving circles influence members to give more and to give more strategically. Their members give to a wide array of organizations and are highly engaged in the community. Giving circles increase members’ knowledge about philanthropy, nonprofits, and the community but have a mixed influence on members’ attitudes about philanthropy, nonprofit and government roles, and political/social abilities and values. Level of engagement, length of engagement, and size of the giving circle seem to matter most, when it comes to understanding giving circles’ effects on members.\n\nExamples of giving circles include the Zawadi giving circle in New Orleans, where 12 African American members collectively donated $24,000 over a two-year period. Their money has provided intensive math tutoring for students at a local school, along with other projects.\n\nThe Queer Youth Fund, established in 2002 and based in Los Angeles, California, has invested more than $3 million in grants to small youth-led organizations in the United States and Canada that promote equality and justice for lesbian, gay, transgender, queer and questioning (LGBTQQ) youth.\n\nFounded in 2004, The African American Giving Circle of the Washington Area Women's Foundation has awarded over $120,000 in grants to community-based organizations in Washington, D.C. serving African American women and girls.\n\nDining for Women (DFW) is a giving circle headquartered in Greenville, South Carolina with chapters in other parts of the United States, which raises monthly for international charities that support women and girls facing extreme challenges in developing countries.\n\nIn 2006, Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders in Philanthropy (AAPIP) established a giving circle movement that has resulted in the distribution of over $2.2 million to Asian American communities across the United States. Included in this growing network of giving circles are the Lunar Giving Circle in San Francisco, Asian Giving Circle in Chicago, Cherry Blossom Giving Circle in Washington, D.C., and GVNGTogether in Boston, Massachusetts. In 2016, the Asian Women Giving Circle (AWGC) was studied by a Capstone team from NYU's Wagner School of public service. The team members were Carlos Rodriguez, Janice Lam, David Portalatin, Nicole Moriarty, and Paulina Toro.\n\nAmplifier Giving (www.AmplifierGiving.org) is the first concerted effort to network Jewish giving circles, catalyze the creation of new giving circles, educate circle members on best practices in philanthropy, and create a platform to connect NGOs and Jewish giving circles to each other efficiently and effectively. The Amplifier network includes 50 giving circles and 369 organizations. The Amplifier website has a circle and organization directory, online common grant application system, and a resource library with information about how to start and sustain a giving circle.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported in 2013 that a giving circle, Women for Social Innovation, is providing seed money for social innovators helping women, girls and families in Greater Philadelphia.\n\nIn 2014, the Latino Community Foundation launched the first Latino Giving Circle Network in the United States. As of August 2016, there are over 220 members in this network, which focuses on investing in Latino-led organization in California.\n\nThe Kew Giving Circle in Kew, south west London, started meeting in January 1999 and is still active. It is the first recorded giving circle in the United Kingdom. Its members contribute to a pooled Charities Aid Foundation account and meet to agree payments from the account to their selected charities.\n\nThe Funding Network is the largest known and first open giving circle in the UK. It is a charity that runs \"Dragons' Den\"-style events to bring together potential donors and charities to fund positive social change. It has raised over £5 million for over 700 projects across the globe.\n\nThe number of giving circles in Asia is growing. The first study to describe and document Asian giving circles was published in 2013 by Dr Rob John at the National University of Singapore (NUS) Business School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13353302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13353302", "title": "Guardian of the Threshold", "text": "Guardian of the Threshold\n\nThe Guardian of the Threshold is a menacing figure that is described by a number of esoteric teachers. The term \"Guardian of the Threshold\", often called \"dweller on the threshold\", indicates a spectral image which is supposed to manifest itself as soon as \"the student of the spirit ascends upon the path into the higher worlds of knowledge\". \"The Guardian of the Threshold\" is also the title of the third play (of a tetralogy of \"Mystery Dramas\") written by Rudolf Steiner in 1912.\n\nThe \"Dweller of the Threshold\" (or \"Guardian of the Threshold\") is a literary invention of the English mystic and novelist Edward Bulwer-Lytton, found in his romance \"Zanoni\" (1842). Shortly after publication of the book, the term gained wide currency in theosophical circles. The Guardian of the Threshold is a spectral figure and is the abstract of the debit and credit book of the individual. \"It is the combined evil influence that is the result of the wicked thoughts and acts of the age in which any one may live, and it assumes to each student a definite shape at each appearance, being always either of one sort or changing each time\" \"This Dweller of the Threshold meets us in many shapes. It is the Cerberus guarding the entrance to Hades; the Dragon which St. Michael (spiritual will-power) is going to kill; the Snake which tempted Eve, and whose head will be crushed by the heel of the woman; the Hobgoblin watching the place where the treasure is buried, etc. He is the king of evil, who will not permit that within his kingdom a child should grow up, which might surpass him in power; the Herod before whose wrath the divine child Christ has to flee into a foreign country, and is not permitted to return to his home (the soul) until the king (Ambition, Pride, Vanity, Self-righteousness, etc.) is dethroned or dead.\" According to Max Heindel, the Dweller on the Threshold must be confronted by every aspirant—usually at an early stage of his progress into the unseen worlds—and is one of the main causes of obsession.\n\nIn Rudolf Steiner's play \"The Guardian of the Threshold\", first performed in 1912 and the third in a series of four \"Mystery Dramas\", the appearance of the Guardian is connected with Lucifer and Ahriman. Steiner explained that the meeting with the Guardian of the Threshold as presented in those dramas was to show that a person (man or woman) who had made the soul clairvoyant, must go back and forth across that threshold and know how to be rightly in the spiritual world on the far side, as well as on this side in the physical world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3537808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3537808", "title": "Helena Cronin", "text": "Helena Cronin\n\nHelena Cronin (born 1942) is a British Darwinian philosopher and rationalist. She is the co-director of the Centre for Philosophy of Natural and Social Science and the Darwin Centre at the London School of Economics. She achieved prominence with her book, \"The Ant and the Peacock: Altruism and Sexual Selection from Darwin to Today\" (1991) and has published and broadcast widely since.\n\nCronin attended Henrietta Barnett School in Hampstead Garden Suburb.\n\nCronin is co-editor of \"Darwinism Today\", a series of short books in evolutionary theory. She writes popular articles, such as in \"The Guardian\" as well as in technical journals. She is a Patron of Humanists UK.\n\nShe ran a series of seminars, \"effectively a salon at the London School of Economics specialising in the implications of Darwinian theory for humans\" according to Times Higher Education, which adds \"as an academic promoter Helena Cronin has few equals.\" The seminars featured Richard Dawkins, David Haig, Daniel Dennett, Steven Pinker and Matt Ridley among others.\n\nCronin was married to another academic, the late dental epidemiologist Aubrey Sheiham, professor of dental public health at University College London. Her first cousin is Professor Sir Michael Marmot, an epidemiologist.\n\nCronin's strong rationalistic views brought her prominence in a number of areas, such as sexual selection, Darwinism, the relative abilities of males and females, and gay rights. These are discussed in turn below.\n\nThe evolutionary zoologist Mark Ridley, reviewing \"The Ant and the Peacock\" in the \"New York Times\", writes that it is a \"fine book\" in which Cronin uses our modern understanding of altruism (the ant) and \"dangerously gaudy sexual ornamentation\" (the peacock). Ridley notes that there are two reasons for sex differences like the peacock's train, and that Cronin explains them through the debate of Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace. Darwin proposed female choice: female aesthetics drive male displays. Wallace both \"ignored Darwin's problem\" (ornamentation) and \"denied Darwin's solution\" (female choice rather than natural selection). Instead, Ridley observes, Cronin explains that Wallace preferred the explanation that peacock's tails \"crop up almost automatically\"; he believed that female choice was both unnecessary and impossible. Ridley finds Cronin \"quite amusing as she reviews the 'misogynistic opinion' of the critics of female choice\", citing Cronin's example of the universally unpleasant 19th century anti-Darwinian St. George Mivart, \"such is the instability of a vicious feminine caprice, that no constancy of coloration could be produced by its selective action.\" But curiously (notes Ridley), Darwin and Wallace swapped roles in Cronin's problem of the ant, where Darwin argued for natural selection, while Cronin quotes Wallace arguing that for human \"intellectual and moral faculties\", \"we can only find an adequate cause in the unseen universe of Spirit.\" In Ridley's opinion, \"The subtlest and most original insights in \"The Ant and the Peacock\" concern differences between Darwin's ideas and modern ideas.\" Ridley finds that Cronin \"moves easily between the Victorians and ourselves\", not entirely avoiding the danger of anachronism, \"the historian's mortal sin\", that this movement creates. He suspects that the book will therefore \"appeal more to philosophically minded readers than to historians,\" but grants that \"luckily\" evolution is \"one of the more philosophical of scientific ideas\", and Wallace and Darwin can survive being treated as our contemporaries.\n\nThe review of \"The Ant and the Peacock\" in \"Biology and Philosophy\" comments that Cronin's book is \"Beautifully written, [with] good strong examples, a nice sense of history, flashes of humour, plain forthright conclusions.\"\n\nNils K. Oeijord, in his book \"Why Gould was Wrong\", notes that Steven Jay Gould \"was really a strange thinker.\" Oeijord continues, \"Example: Many have wondered at Gould's verbally violent review of \"The Ant and the Peacock\" (1991) by Helena Cronin. He attacked Cronin for explaining human altruism as natural! He accused Cronin of errors, omissions, tricks, falsities, rhetorical flourishes, etc. But all these things are typically Gould's ways of writing books!\" Oeijord notes that Cronin was just presenting \"the new consensus in evolutionary biology—the gene-selectionist approach\" to which Gould simply had to fight back; but \"two scientific giants\", John Maynard Smith and Daniel Dennett defended Cronin against Gould's charges.\n\nThe English evolutionary anthropologist Camilla Power, in \"A reply to Helena Cronin\", described Cronin as \"authoress of 'The Ant and the Peacock' [who] was pontificating .. on how Darwinian theory should inform Blairite social policy...this is a Darwinian's response\". Power sets out to \"nail a few myths\". She attacks Cronin's claim that women are disposed to wanting a single mate, noting that monogamy is rarer than biologists thought: females resist male efforts to control them; human females too seek \"extra-pair copulations (EPCs) in the jargon of evolutionary ecology\", while among indigenous peoples in the Amazon, females seek \"backup fathers for each offspring\". Power observes that men do not necessarily run around, but guard existing mates to limit female choice, contrary to Cronin's view; and among the Aka in the Central African rainforest, men often share in childcare. \"Human male strategies are quasi-female by primate standards.\" Power then attacks Cronin's view of the lone mother, showing that grandmothers assist their daughters' offspring. Power is critical of Cronin's \"mysterious statement about women\" that \"'They are the species as it existed before sexual selection drove men apart'\", observing that human nature evolved in \"small-scale, face-to-face societies where no one was richer or poorer.\"\n\nEdge, in its \"Annual Question\" in 2008, hosted Cronin in a piece entitled \"More dumbbells but more Nobels: Why men are at the top\":\n\nThe El Salvador newspaper \"La Pagina\", discussing the debate about a gay rights law, cited Cronin and Alfred Kinsey as authorities on the issues involved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1218867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218867", "title": "Hodograph", "text": "Hodograph\n\nA hodograph is a diagram that gives a vectorial visual representation of the movement of a body or a fluid. It is the locus of one end of a variable vector, with the other end fixed. The position of any plotted data on such a diagram is proportional to the velocity of the moving particle. It is also called a velocity diagram. It appears to have been used by James Bradley, but its practical development is mainly from Sir William Rowan Hamilton, who published an account of it in the \"Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy\" in 1846.\n\nIt is used in physics, astronomy and fluid mechanics to plot deformation of material, motion of planet or any other data that involves the velocities of different parts of a body.\n\nSee Swinging Atwood's machine\n\nIn meteorology, hodographs are used to plot winds from soundings of the Earth's atmosphere. It is a polar diagram where wind direction is indicated by the angle from the center axis and its strength by the distance from the center. In the figure to the right, at the bottom one finds values of wind at 4 heights above ground. They are plotted by the vectors formula_1 to formula_2. One has to notice that direction are plotted as mentioned in the upper right corner.\n\nWith the hodograph and thermodynamic diagrams like the tephigram, meteorologists can calculate:\n\n\nHodograph transformation is a technique used to transform nonlinear partial differential equations into linear version. It consists of interchanging the dependent and independent variables in the equation to achieve linearity.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25474070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25474070", "title": "Human trophy collecting", "text": "Human trophy collecting\n\nThe practice of human trophy collecting involves the acquisition of human remains. The intent may be to demonstrate dominance over the deceased, such as scalp-taking or forming necklaces of human ears or teeth, or to commemorate the deceased, such as the veneration of the relics of saints. It can be done to prove one's success in battle, or to show off one's power to others. Murderers' collection of their victims' body parts have also been described as a form of trophy-taking; the FBI draws a distinction between souvenirs and trophies in this regard.\n\nWhile older customs generally included the burial of human war trophies along with the collector, such items have been sold in modern times.\n\nHeadhunting has been practiced across the Americas, Europe, Asia, and Oceania for millennia. One analysis of the practice in early North American societies linked it to social distance from the victim. \n\nIn North America, it was common practice before, during or after the lynching of African-Americans for those involved to take souvenirs such as body parts, skin, bones, etc.\n\n\"Well, these white guys would sometimes take the dog-tag chain and fill that up with ears. For different reasons. They would take the ear off to make sure the VC was dead. And to confirm that they had a kill. And to put some notches on they guns.\"\n\n\"If we were movin' through the jungle, they'd just put the bloody ear on the chain and stick the ear in their pocket and keep on going. Wouldn't take time to dry it off. Then when we get back, they would nail 'em up on the walls to our hootch, you know, as a trophy. They was rotten and stinkin' after awhile, and finally we make 'em take 'em down.\"\n\nBody-snatching may sometimes be conducted in order to retain a body part as a trophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2985420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2985420", "title": "Japanese units of measurement", "text": "Japanese units of measurement\n\nTraditional Japanese units of measurement or the shakkanhō (, \"\"shaku–kan\" system\") is the traditional system of measurement used by the people of the Japanese archipelago. It is largely based on the Chinese system, which spread to Japan and the rest of the Sinosphere in antiquity. It has remained mostly unaltered since the adoption of the measures of the Tang Dynasty in 701. Following the Meiji Restoration, Imperial Japan adopted the metric system and defined the traditional units in metric terms on the basis of a prototype metre and kilogram. The present values of most Korean and Taiwanese units of measurement derive from these values as well, owing to their occupations by the Japanese.\n\nFor a time in the early 20th century, the traditional, metric, and English systems were all legal in Japan. Although commerce has since been legally restricted to using the metric system, the old system is still used in some instances. The old measures are common in carpentry and agriculture, with tools such as chisels, spatels, saws, and hammers manufactured in \"sun\" and \"bu\" sizes. Floorspace is expressed in terms of tatami mats, and land is sold on the basis of price in \"tsubo\". Many rice cookers are sold with measuring cups of 1\"gō\".\n\nCustomary Japanese units are a local adaption of the traditional Chinese system, which was adopted at a very early date. They were imposed and adjusted at various times by local and imperial statutes. The details of the system have varied over time and location in Japan's history.\n\nJapan signed the Treaty of the Metre in 1885, with its terms taking effect in 1886. It received its prototype metre and kilogram from the International Bureau of Weights and Measures in 1890. The next year, a weights and measurements law codified the Japanese system, taking its fundamental units to be the \"shaku\" and \"kan\" and deriving the others from them. The law codified the values of the traditional and metric units in terms of one another, but retained the traditional units as the formal standard and metric values as secondary.\n\nIn 1909, English units were also made legal within the Empire of Japan. Following World War I, the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce established a Committee for Weights and Measures and Industrial Standards, part of whose remit was to investigate which of Japan's three legal systems should be adopted. Upon its advice, the Imperial Diet established the metric system as Japan's legal standard, effective 1 July 1924, with use of the other systems permitted as a transitional measure. The government and \"leading industries\" were to convert within the next decade, with others following in the decade after that. Public education—at the time compulsory through primary school—began to teach the metric system. Governmental agencies and the Japanese Weights and Measures Association undertook a gradual course of education and conversion but opposition became vehemently outspoken in the early 1930s. Nationalists decried the \"foreign\" system as harmful to Japanese pride, language, and culture, as well as restrictive to international trade. In 1933, the government pushed the deadline for the conversion of the first group of industries to 1939; the rest of the country was given until 1954. Emboldened, the nationalists succeeded in having an Investigating Committee for Weights and Measures Systems established. In 1938, it advised that the government should continue to employ the \"Shaku–Kan\" system alongside the metric one. The next year, the imperial ordinance concerning the transition to the metric system was formally revised, indefinitely exempting real estate and historical objects and treasures from any need for metric conversion. The deadline for compulsory conversion in all other fields was moved back to 31 December 1958.\n\nFollowing its defeat in World War II, Japan was occupied by America and saw an expanded use of US customary units. Gasoline was sold by the gallon and cloth by the yard. The Diet revisited the nation's measurements and, with the occupation's approval, promulgated a Measurements Law in June 1951 that reaffirmed its intention to continue Japan's metrication, effective on the first day of 1959. An unofficial and \"ad hoc\" Metric System Promotion Committee was established by interested scholars, public servants, and businessmen in August 1955, undertaking a public awareness campaign and seeking to accomplish as much of the conversion ahead of schedule as possible. Its first success was the conversion of candy sales in Tokyo department stores from the \"momme\" to the gram in September 1956; others followed, with NHK taking the lead in media use.\n\nWith the majority of the public now exposed to it since childhood, the metric system became the sole legal measurement system in most fields of Japanese life on 1 January 1959. Redrafting of laws to use metric equivalents had already been accomplished, but conversion of the land registries required until 31 March 1966 to complete. Industry transitioned gradually at its own expense, with compliance sometimes being nominal, as in the case of screws becoming \"¼ screws\". Since the original fines for noncompliance were around $140 and governmental agencies mostly preferred to wait for voluntary conversion, metric use by December 1959 was estimated at only 85%. Since research showed that individual Japanese did not intend to actually use the metric units when given other options, however, sale and verification of devices marked with non-metric units (such as rulers and tape measures noting \"shaku\" and \"sun\") were criminalised after 1961. \n\nSome use of the traditional units continues. Some Japanese describe their weight in terms of \"kan\". Homes continue to be reckoned in terms of \"tsubo\", even on the national census as late as 2005, although the practice was discontinued in 2010. English units continue to be employed in aviation, munitions, and various sports, including golf and baseball.\n\nThe base unit of Japanese length is the \"shaku\" based upon the Chinese \"chi\", with other units derived from it and changing over time based on its dimensions. The \"chi\" was originally a span taken from the end of the thumb to the tip of an outstretched middle finger, but which gradually increased in length to about , just a few centimeters longer than the size of a foot.\n\nAs in China and Korea, Japan employed different \"shaku\" for different purposes. The \"carpentry\" \"shaku\" (, \"kanejaku\") was used for construction. It was a little longer in the 19th century prior to its metric redefinition. The \"cloth\" or \"whale\" \"shaku\" (, \"kujirajaku\"), named for tailors' and fabric merchants' baleen rulers, was ¼ longer and used in measuring cloth. (A longer unit of about 25cloth \"shaku\" was the \"tan\".) Traditional Japanese clothing was reckoned using the \"traditional clothing\" \"shaku\" (, \"gofukujaku\"), about longer than the carpentry \"shaku\". The Shōsōin in Nara has ivory 1-\"shaku\" rulers, the .\n\nThe Japanese ri is now much longer than the Chinese or Korean li, comprising 36 \"chō\", 2160 \"ken\", or 12,960\"shaku\". A still longer unit was formerly standard in Ise on Honshu and throughout the 9 provinces of Kyushu, which comprised 50 \"chō\", 3000 \"ken\", or 18,000\"shaku\". The imperial nautical mile of 6080feet (1853.19m) was also formerly used by the Japanese in maritime contexts as a \"marine ri\". A fourth and shorter ri of about 600m is still evident in some beach names. The \"99-Ri\" beach at Kujukuri is about 60 km. The \"7-Ri\" beach at Shichiri is 4.2 km long.\n\nThe traditional units are still used for construction materials in Japan. For example, plywood is usually manufactured in (about ) sheets known in the trade as , or 3 × 6 \"shaku\". Each sheet is about the size of one tatami mat. The thicknesses of the sheets, however, are usually measured in millimetres. The names of these units also live in the name of the bamboo flute , literally \"shaku eight\", which measures one \"shaku\" and eight \"sun\", and the Japanese version of the Tom Thumb story, , literally \"one \"sun\" boy\", as well as in many Japanese proverbs.\n\nThe base unit of Japanese area is the \"tsubo\", equivalent to a square ken or 36 square \"shaku\". It is twice the size of the \"jō\", the area of the Nagoya tatami mat. Both units are used informally in discussing real estate floorspace. Due to historical connections, the tsubo is still used as the official base unit of area in Taiwan.\n\nIn agricultural contexts, the \"tsubo\" is known as the \"bu\". The larger units remain in common use by Japanese farmers when discussing the sizes of fields.\n\nThe base unit of Japanese volume is the \"shō\", although the \"gō\" now sees more use since it is reckoned as the appropriate size of a serving of rice or sake. Sake bottles are now marketed as containing 1800mL exactly.\n\nThe \"koku\" is historically important: since it was reckoned as the amount of rice necessary to feed a person for a single year, it was used to compute agricultural output and official salaries. The \"koku\" of rice was sometimes reckoned as 3000\"sacks\". By the 1940s the shipping \"koku\" was of the shipping ton of 40 or 42ft³ (i.e., ); the \"koku\" of timber was about 10ft³ (); and the \"koku\" of fish, like many modern bushels, was no longer reckoned by volume but computed by weight (40\"kan\"). The \"shakujime\" of timber was about 12ft³ () and the \"taba\" about 108ft³ ( or ).\n\nThe base unit of Japanese weight or mass is the \"kan\", although the \"momme\" is in more common use. It is a recognized unit in the international pearl industry.\n\nThe Japanese form of the Chinese tael was the \"ryō\" (). It was customarily reckoned as around 4 or 10momme but, because of its importance as a fundamental unit of the silver and gold bullion used as currency in medieval Japan, it varied over time and location from those notional values.\n\nEnglish units—both US and imperial—see use in some Japanese contexts. Feet and inches are used for most non-sport bicycles, whose tire sizes follow a British system; for sizes of magnetic tape and many pieces of computer hardware; for photograph sizes; and for the sizes of display screens for electronic devices. Photographic prints, however, are usually rounded to the nearest millimetre and screens are not \"described\" in terms of inches but \"type\" (, \"gata\"). For instance, a television whose screen has a 17-inch diagonal is described as a \"17-type\" (17) and one with a 32-inch widescreen screen is called a \"32-vista-type\" (32V).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18414305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18414305", "title": "Karl Duncker", "text": "Karl Duncker\n\nKarl Duncker (2 February 1903, in Leipzig – 23 February 1940) was a Gestalt psychologist. He attended Friedrich-Wilhelms-University from 1923 to 1923, and spent 1925–1926 at Clark University in Worcester, MA as a visiting professor, where he received a masters in arts degree. \nUntil 1935 he was a student and assistant of the founders of Gestalt psychology in Berlin: Max Wertheimer, Wolfgang Köhler and Kurt Koffka.\nIn 1935, exiled by the Nazis, he got an assistantship in Cambridge with Frederic Charles Bartlett and later immigrated to the US, where he was again an assistant of Wolfgang Köhler’s at Swarthmore College. He committed suicide in 1940 at 37 years of age. He had been suffering from depression for some time and had received professional treatment.\n\nHis younger brother Wolfgang Duncker, a communist in exile in Moscow, was arrested in 1938 during the Great Purges and died in the Gulag. Their parents were the well-known socialist and later communist propagandists Hermann and Käte Duncker.\n\nDuncker coined the term functional fixedness for describing the difficulties in visual perception and in problem solving that arise from the fact that one element of a whole situation already has a (fixed) function which has to be changed for making the correct perception or for finding the solution to the problem.\n\nIn his \"candle problem\" the situation was defined by the objects: a candle, a box of thumb-tacks and a book of matches. The task was to fix the candles on the wall without any additional elements. The difficulty of this problem arises from the functional fixedness of the box, which originally contained thumb-tacks. It is a container in the problem situation but must be used as a shelf in the solution situation.\n\nOther examples for this type of mental restructuring are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34032940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34032940", "title": "Logan plot", "text": "Logan plot\n\nA Logan plot (or Logan graphical analysis) is a graphical analysis technique based on the compartment model that uses linear regression to analyze pharmacokinetics of tracers involving reversible uptake. It is mainly used for the evaluation of nuclear medicine imaging data after the injection of a labeled ligand that binds reversibly to specific receptor or enzyme.\n\nIn conventional compartmental analysis, an iterative method is used to fit the individual model parameters in the solution of a compartmental model of specific configuration to the measurements with a measured plasma time-activity curve that serves as an forcing (input) function, and the binding of the tracer can then be described. Graphical analysis is a simplified method that transforms the model equations into a linear equation evaluated at multiple time points and provides fewer parameters (i.e., slope and intercept). Although the slope and the intercept can be interpreted in terms of a combination of model parameters if a compartmental model configuration is assumed, the graphical methods are independent of any specific model configuration. In case of irreversible tracers, certain fraction of the radioactivity is trapped in the tissue or the binding site during the course of the experiment, whereas reversible tracers show uptake and loss from all compartments throughout the study. The theoretical foundation of graphical analysis for irreversible tracers (also called Patlak graphical analysis or Patlak plot) was laid by Clifford Patlak and his colleagues at NIH. Based on the original work of Patlak, Jean Logan and her colleagues from Brookhaven National Laboratory extended the method to tracers with reversible kinetics.\n\nThe kinetics of radiolabeled compounds in a compartmental system can be described in terms of a set of first-order, constant-coefficient, ordinary differential equations. The time course of the activity in the multicompartmental system driven by a metabolite-corrected plasma input function formula_1 can be described by:\n\nwhere formula_3 is a column vector of activity concentration for each compartment at time formula_4, formula_5 is the matrix of the transfer constants between compartments, and formula_6 is the vector of plasma-to-tissue transfer constants. Patlak and Blasberg showed that the above equation can be written as:\n\nwhere formula_8 represents a row vector of 1s and formula_9. The total activity in the region of interest, formula_10, is a combination of radioactivities from all compartments plus a plasma volume fraction (formula_11) and thus:\n\nBy dividing both sides by formula_10, one obtains the following linear equation:\n"}
{"id": "171302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171302", "title": "Nostalgia", "text": "Nostalgia\n\nNostalgia is a sentimentality for the past, typically for a period or place with happy personal associations. The word \"nostalgia\" is learned formation of a Greek compound, consisting of (\"nóstos\"), meaning \"homecoming\", a Homeric word, and (\"álgos\"), meaning \"pain\" or \"ache\", and was coined by a 17th-century medical student to describe the anxieties displayed by Swiss mercenaries fighting away from home. Described as a medical condition—a form of melancholy—in the Early Modern period, it became an important trope in Romanticism.\n\nNostalgia is associated with a yearning for the past, its personalities, and events, especially the \"good old days\" or a \"warm childhood\".\n\nThe scientific literature on nostalgia usually refers to nostalgia regarding the personal life and has mainly studied the effects of nostalgia induced during the studies. Smell and touch are strong evokers of nostalgia due to the processing of these stimuli first passing through the amygdala, the emotional seat of the brain. These recollections of one's past are usually important events, people one cares about, and places where one has spent time. Music and weather can also be strong triggers of nostalgia. Nostalgic preferences, the belief that the past was better than the present, have been linked to biases in memory.\n\nNostalgia's definition has changed greatly over time. Consistent with its Greek word roots meaning \"homecoming\" and \"pain,\" nostalgia was for centuries considered a potentially debilitating and sometimes fatal medical condition expressing extreme homesickness. The modern view is that nostalgia is an independent, and even positive, emotion that many people experience often. Occasional nostalgia has been found to have many functions, such as to improve mood, increase social connectedness, enhance positive self-regard, and provide existential meaning. Many nostalgic reflections serve more than one function, and overall seem to benefit those who experience them. Such benefits may lead to a chronic disposition or personality trait of \"nostalgia proneness.\"\n\nAlthough nostalgia is often triggered by negative feelings, it results in increasing one's mood and heightening positive emotions, which can stem from feelings of warmth or coping resulting from nostalgic reflections. One way to improve mood is to effectively cope with problems that hinder one's happiness. Batcho (2013) found that nostalgia proneness positively related to successful methods of coping throughout all stages—planning and implementing strategies, and reframing the issue positively. These studies led to the conclusion that the coping strategies that are likely among nostalgia prone people often lead to benefits during stressful times. Nostalgia can be connected to more focus on coping strategies and implementing them, thus increasing support in challenging times.\n\nNostalgia also sometimes involves memories of people you were close to, and thus it can increase one's sense of social support and connections. Nostalgia is also triggered specifically by feelings of loneliness, but counteracts such feelings with reflections of close relationships. According to Zhou et al. (2008), lonely people often have lesser perceptions of social support. Loneliness, however, leads to nostalgia, which actually increases perceptions of social support. Thus, Zhou and colleagues (2008) concluded that nostalgia serves a restorative function for individuals regarding their social connectedness.\n\nNostalgia serves as a coping mechanism and helps people to feel better about themselves. Vess et al. (2012) found that the subjects who thought of nostalgic memories showed a greater accessibility of positive characteristics than those who thought of exciting future experiences. Additionally, in a second study conducted, some participants were exposed to nostalgic engagement and reflection while the other group was not. The researchers looked again at self-attributes and found that the participants who were not exposed to nostalgic experiences reflected a pattern of selfish and self-centered attributes. Vess et al. (2012), however, found that this effect had weakened and become less powerful among the participants who engaged in nostalgic reflection.\n\nNostalgia helps increase one's self-esteem and meaning in life by buffering threats to well-being and also by initiating a desire to deal with problems or stress. Routledge (2011) and colleagues found that nostalgia correlates positively with one's sense of meaning in life. The second study revealed that nostalgia increases one's perceived meaning in life, which was thought to be mediated by a sense of social support or connectedness. Thirdly, the researchers found that threatened meaning can even act as a trigger for nostalgia, thus increasing one's nostalgic reflections. By triggering nostalgia, though, one's defensiveness to such threat is minimized as found in the fourth study. The final two studies found that nostalgia is able to not only create meaning, but buffer threats to meaning by breaking the connection between a lack of meaning and one's well being. Follow-up studies also completed by Routledge in 2012 not only found meaning as a function of nostalgia, but also concluded that nostalgic people have greater perceived meaning, search for meaning less, and can better buffer existential threat.\n\nNostalgia makes people more willing to engage in growth-oriented behaviors and encourages them to view themselves as growth-oriented people. Baldwin & Landau (2014) found that nostalgia leads people to rate themselves higher on items like \"I am the kind of person who embraces unfamiliar people, events, and places.\" Nostalgia also increased interest in growth-related behavior such as \"I would like to explore someplace that I have never been before.\" In the first study, these effects were statistically mediated by nostalgia-induced positive affect—the extent to which nostalgia made participants feel good. In the second study, nostalgia led to the same growth outcomes but the effects were statistically mediated by nostalgia-induced self-esteem.\n\nOne recent study critiques the idea of nostalgia, which in some forms can become a defense mechanism by which people avoid the historical facts. This study looked at the different portrayals of apartheid in South Africa and argued that nostalgia appears as two ways, 'restorative nostalgia' a wish to return to that past, and 'reflective nostalgia' which is more critically aware.\n\nReliving past memories may provide comfort and contribute to mental health. One notable recent medical study has looked at the physiological effects thinking about past 'good' memories can have. They found that thinking about the past 'fondly' actually increased perceptions of physical warmth.\n\nIn a 2014 study conducted by Routledge, he and a team observed that the more people reported having major disruptions and uncertainties in their lives, the more they nostalgically longed for the past. Routledge suggests that by invoking the idea of an idealized past, politicians can provoke the social and cultural anxieties and uncertainties that make nostalgia especially attractive — and effective — as a tool of political persuasion.\n\nThe term was coined in 1688 by Johannes Hofer (1669–1752) in his Basel dissertation. Hofer introduced \"nostalgia\" or \"mal du pays\" \"homesickness\" for the condition also known as \"mal du Suisse\" \"Swiss illness\" or \"Schweizerheimweh\" \"Swiss homesickness,\" because of its frequent occurrence in Swiss mercenaries who in the plains of lowlands France or Italy were pining for their native mountain landscapes. Symptoms were also thought to include fainting, high fever, indigestion, stomach pain, and death. Military physicians hypothesized that the malady was due to damage to the victims' brain cells and ear drums by the constant clanging of cowbells in the pastures of Switzerland.\n\nEnglish \"homesickness\" is a loan translation of \"nostalgia\". Sir Joseph Banks used the word in his journal during the first voyage of Captain Cook. On 3 September 1770 he stated that the sailors \"were now pretty far gone with the longing for home which the Physicians have gone so far as to esteem a disease under the name of Nostalgia,\" but his journal was not published in his lifetime (see Beaglehole, J. C. (ed.). The Endeavour Journal of Joseph Banks 1768–1771, Public Library of New South Wales/Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 1962, vol. ii, p. 145). Cases resulting in death were known and soldiers were sometimes successfully treated by being discharged and sent home. Receiving a diagnosis was, however, generally regarded as an insult. In 1787 Robert Hamilton (1749–1830, physician of Ipswich) described a case of a soldier suffering from nostalgia, who received sensitive and successful treatment:\n\nIn the eighteenth century, scientists were looking for a locus of nostalgia, a nostalgic bone. By the 1850s nostalgia was losing its status as a particular disease and coming to be seen rather as a symptom or stage of a pathological process. It was considered as a form of melancholia and a predisposing condition among suicides. Nostalgia was, however, still diagnosed among soldiers as late as the American Civil War. By the 1870s interest in nostalgia as a medical category had almost completely vanished. Nostalgia was still being recognized in both the First and Second World Wars, especially by the American armed forces. Great lengths were taken to study and understand the condition to stem the tide of troops leaving the front in droves (see the BBC documentary \"Century of the Self\").\n\nNostalgia is triggered by something reminding an individual of an event or item from their past. The resulting emotion can vary from happiness to sorrow. The term of \"feeling nostalgic\" is more commonly used to describe pleasurable emotions associated with and/or a longing to go back to a particular period of time, although the former may also be true.\n\nSwiss nostalgia was linked to the singing of Kuhreihen, which were forbidden to Swiss mercenaries because they led to \"nostalgia\" to the point of desertion, illness or death. The 1767 \"Dictionnaire de Musique\" by Jean-Jacques Rousseau claims that Swiss mercenaries were threatened with severe punishment to prevent them from singing their Swiss songs. It became somewhat of a \"topos\" in Romantic literature, and figures in the poem \"Der Schweizer\" by Achim von Arnim (1805) and in Clemens Brentano's \"Des Knaben Wunderhorn\" (1809) as well as in the opera \"Le Chalet\" by Adolphe Charles Adam (1834) which was performed for Queen Victoria under the title \"The Swiss Cottage\". The Romantic connection of \"nostalgia\", the \"Kuhreihen\" and the Swiss Alps was a significant factor in the enthusiasm for Switzerland, the development of early tourism in Switzerland and Alpinism that took hold of the European cultural elite in the 19th century. German Romanticism coined an opposite to \"Heimweh\", \"Fernweh\" \"far-sickness,\" \"longing to be far away,\" like \"wanderlust\" expressing the Romantic desire to travel and explore.\n\nHearing an old song can bring back memories for a person. A song heard once at a specific moment and then not heard again until a far later date will give the listener a sense of nostalgia for the date remembered and events which occurred then.\n\nIn media and advertising, nostalgia-evoking images, sounds, and references can be used strategically to create a sense of connectedness between consumers and products with the goal of convincing the public to consume, watch, or buy advertised products. Modern technology facilitates nostalgia-eliciting advertising through the subject, style, and design of an advertisement. The feeling of longing for the past is easily communicated through social media and advertising because these media require the participation of multiple senses, are able to represent their ideas entirely, and therefore become more reminiscent of reality.\n\nDue to efficient advertising schemes, consumers need not have experienced a specific event or moment in time in order to feel nostalgic for it. This is due to a phenomenon referred to as vicarious nostalgia. Vicarious nostalgia is a feeling of wistful yearning for a moment that occurred prior to, or outside of, the span of one's memory, but is relatable (has sentimental value) due to repeated mediated exposure to it. The constant propagating of advertisements and other media messages makes vicarious nostalgia possible, and changes the ways we understand advertisements and subsequently, the way consumers use their purchasing power.\n\nExamples of nostalgia used for provoking public interest include entertainment websites like DoYouRemember, revamps of old movies or TV shows, or books. Vintage, rustic and old-fashioned design styles can also be seen in nostalgia-based ad campaigns that companies such as Coca-Cola and Levi Strauss & Co. use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2060392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2060392", "title": "Pair by association", "text": "Pair by association\n\nIn relation to psychology, pair by association is the action of associating a stimulus with an arbitrary idea or object, eliciting a response, usually emotional. This is done by repeatedly pairing the stimulus with the arbitrary object.\n\nFor example, repeatedly pairing images of beautiful women in bathing suits elicits a sexual response in most men. Advertising agencies repeatedly pair products with attractive women in television commercials with the intention of eliciting an emotional or sexually aroused response in the consumer. This causes the consumer to be more likely to buy the product than when presented with a similar product without such an association.\n\nThe hippocampal area, beyond its importance in episodic memory is in part responsible in the creation and storage of associations in the memory, especially for item associations. Furthermore, as stated by Gilbert & Kesner, the associations that are created are those that might be \"“critical”\" in paired-associative learning. Through studies on rats, it has been found that lesions to the hippocampus lead to object-place associative learning impairments. The findings of hippocampal damage that lead to impairments in the association between object-place as Gilbert & Kesner state have been seen in not only rodents but also non-human primates and humans . It should be noted that previously learned associations made before the damage to the hippocampal area were not affected with impairment. Gilbert & Kesner have suggested in their work that this ability to still recall previously stored associations may be due to modified synapses in an \"“auto associative network”\".\n\nPaired association learning can be defined as a system of learning in which items (such as words, letters, numbers, symbols etc.) are matched so that presentation of one member of the pair will cue the recall of the other member. It is this learning which constitutes the basics in a paired-associate task. These tasks can be divided into the following: visual-visual, verbal-verbal, and visual-verbal. In visual-visual both members of the pair are in a visual form (e.g. the picture of a blue circle paired with that of a picture of a yellow triangle). The verbal-verbal is when the members of the pair are both verbally presented (e.g. listening to the word cat followed by the word hat spoken to a participant). The last form, visual-verbal is when one member of the pair is spoken out loud while the other member is presented in a visual form (e.g. listening to the word box and seeing a picture of a house). It should be noted that visual associative learning has a positive association with age. In school age children, their visual association ability grows in conjunction with their age; younger children made more errors while older children made less.\nThe paired association task broken down to its basics is: a stimuli, response, and the consequence of the cue association. This is best seen in a study where Naya, Sakai, & Miyashita performed one version of the task on monkeys. In the study a primate was given a visual-visual paired-associate task where they were shown all the pairs in the set. Then after a long delay they displayed one picture of a pair to the primate. When the correct picture was paired by the monkey, showing that the pictures were cueing the response, they were given rewards in the form of food. What this study shows is that it is possible for associations to occur for two previously unrelated items. The monkeys showed they had actually remembered what was shown to them. In visual associative learning, the efficiency of the participant/subject in making these connections actually will decrease as the “memory load” increases. The more items/the higher the complexity that one has to keep in their memory leads to poorer performance on paired associative learning tasks.\nGluck, Mercado, and Myers explain how paired-association is possibly tied to encoding rather than retrieval. In the study presented by Gluck et al., there was a paired associates test where after studying word pairs the participants were presented with one word from the pair and required to recall the match there was a noticeable difference in accuracy between the young adult and older adults. At the start of the study each pair was shown for 15 seconds, in this the older adults had much worse performance; their recall abilities paled in comparison to the younger adults. This however did change when the time was doubled to that of 30 seconds; here the elderly were able to have a much improved performance level. It is an accepted understanding that in associative learning there is a negative regression, as one ages their performance levels decrease. The regression remains even after addressing the possible interfering variables such as attention or spatial memory.\n\nWhen the paired association task is performed, there are ways in which the performance in the task can be either negatively or positively affected. Associations suffer when an item is shared between associations; double function pairs such as AB and BC will be harder to recall later than control pairs such as AB and CD. As Caplan et al., state double function pairs create what is called association ambiguity, a sharing of a common member in the pair, which leads to interference. The brain has difficulty in processing the pairs to the point that in some cases one pair will be remembered at the expense of the other pair. An example is in the two word pairs CAR-HORN and CAR-DOG. In this word pair a participant would remember 1 pair primarily while forgetting the other pair. Memory for ambiguous pairs will often suffer compared to unambiguous pairs in both situations of e.g. AB and BC or AB and AC. One matter that is not affected is a cue recall in either direction, forward (cue A, recall B) or backward (cue B, recall A); either direction will not affect the accuracy of the recall. This also holds true for double function pairs.\nAdditionally, there is ongoing research into the effects ecstasy/polystimulant use has on paired-associate task/learning. In a study by Gallagher et al., it was found that those who used ecstasy/polydrugs had in general more false positive responses, clicking yes (in agreement) when asked if a word pair had been previously presented even if the reality was false, compared to non-users. It was proposed that because creating the association between word pairs requires executive resources, which has been known to be hampered in ecstasy users. This is what has prevented the binding of word pairs. However, as stated by the author, it is not possible to fully attribute these deficits in the task, but it bears noting that there are differences occurring.\nAn association can be improved with the aid of the production effect which is a finding where speaking a word out loud leads to enhancements in memory compared to reading a word silently. The production effect is not limited to speaking a word aloud; mouthing, writing, whispering, spelling, and typing all lead to an enhanced memory though the level will not be the same as reading aloud. In accordance with Putnam et al., the enhancement in recall in the production effect is because reading aloud creates a more distinctive memory in the encoding process. Moreover, the production effect improved not only pair recognition but also paired-associate recall. These findings hint at a positive link between the production effect and the association between pairs in relation to paired-associate task/learning; using one of the elements in the production effect leads to improved encoding of associations.\n\nBehaviorists will often use paired association tests to determine the strength of verbal behavior, in particular, B.F Skinner's concept of the verbal response class called intraverbals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48636", "title": "Partition of unity", "text": "Partition of unity\n\nIn mathematics, a partition of unity of a topological space \"X\" is a set \"R\" of continuous functions from \"X\" to the unit interval [0,1] such that for every point, formula_1,\nPartitions of unity are useful because they often allow one to extend local constructions to the whole space. They are also important in the interpolation of data, in signal processing, and the theory of spline functions.\n\nThe existence of partitions of unity assumes two distinct forms:\n\n\nThus one chooses either to have the supports indexed by the open cover, or compact supports. If the space is compact, then there exist partitions satisfying both requirements.\n\nA finite open cover always has a continuous partition of unity subordinated to it, provided the space is locally compact and Hausdorff. \nParacompactness of the space is a necessary condition to guarantee the existence of a partition of unity subordinate to any open cover. Depending on the category to which the space belongs, it may also be a sufficient condition. The construction uses mollifiers (bump functions), which exist in continuous and smooth manifolds, but not in analytic manifolds. Thus for an open cover of an analytic manifold, an analytic partition of unity subordinate to that open cover generally does not exist. \"See\" analytic continuation.\n\nIf \"R\" and \"S\" are partitions of unity for spaces \"X\" and \"Y\", respectively, then the set of all pairwise products formula_3 is a partition of unity for the cartesian product space \"X\"×\"Y\".\n\nWe can construct a partition of unity on formula_4 by looking at a chart on the complement of a point formula_5 sending formula_6 to formula_7 with center formula_8. Now, let formula_9 be a bump function on formula_7 defined byformula_11then, both this function and formula_12 can be extended uniquely onto formula_4 by setting formula_14. Then, the set formula_15forms a partition of unity over formula_4.\n\nSometimes a less restrictive definition is used: the sum of all the function values at a particular point is only required to be positive, rather than 1, for each point in the space. However, given such a set of functions, one can obtain a partition of unity in the strict sense by dividing every function by the sum of all functions (which is defined, since at any point it has only a finite number of terms).\n\nA partition of unity can be used to define the integral (with respect to a volume form) of a function defined over a manifold: One first defines the integral of a function whose support is contained in a single coordinate patch of the manifold; then one uses a partition of unity to define the integral of an arbitrary function; finally one shows that the definition is independent of the chosen partition of unity.\n\nA partition of unity can be used to show the existence of a Riemannian metric on an arbitrary manifold.\n\nMethod of steepest descent employs a partition of unity to construct asymptotics of integrals.\n\nLinkwitz–Riley filter is an example of practical implementation of partition of unity to separate input signal into two output signals containing only high- or low-frequency components.\n\nThe Bernstein polynomials of a fixed degree \"m\" are a family of \"m\"+1 linearly independent polynomials that are a partition of unity for the unit interval formula_17.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12813182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12813182", "title": "Peace flag", "text": "Peace flag\n\nThere have been several designs for a peace flag.\n\n\"The Peace Flag\" is an initiative that aims to unify all nations underneath one common symbol on International Peace Day.\nWhile there are various icons of peace – the olive branch, the dove – there is no official world flag of peace adopted by the United Nations. That’s why this initiative has proposed that, for one day a year on 21 September, every country raises an all-white version of their national flag to represent that we are all one. In 2013, embassies of Colombia, Equatorial Guinea and Ecuador in London officially agreed to support The Peace Flag initiative by raising a colorless version of their respective flags on September 21. The initiative was nominated for a White Pencil in 2012 at D&AD for its contribution towards peace, in support of Peace One Day.\n\nThe white flag is recognized in most of the world as a flag of surrender, truce or ceasefire. The first mention of a white flag used in this context is made during the Eastern Han dynasty (AD 25–220). A white flag was also used by the anti-war movement during the US Civil War in 1861.\n\nIn 1891, the third Universal Peace Congress in Rome devised a generalized Peace Flag design, which was simply the home nation's flag bordered in white to signify non-violent conflict resolution. This was used (although not officially adopted) by the American Peace Society and the Universal Peace Union. It was designed by Henry Pettit.\n\nIn the 1890s, expatriate American Cora Slocomb di Brazza Savorgnan, the Countess Di Brazza, invented a universal peace flag with three upright bands: yellow, purple, and white, which became the peace flag of the International Peace Bureau. Originally, there was a complicated symbol on the middle band: \"a shield ... surmounted by a man's and a woman's clasped hands, sustained by a pair of dove wings with a white star aloft; on the shield can appear any device chosen by the association adopting the flag, or simply the number of enrollment among the users of the flag, or the motto \"Pro Concordia Labor\" (For Peace I Work), or this motto may be placed upon a ribbon on the flag beneath the shield, or on a streamer (white) from the flag staff (blue, the color of promise) surmounted by a star with the motto of the association or individual using the flag upon the other white streamer\".\n\nThis flag was adopted by the International Council of Women in 1896. In 1904, it lost the complicated design and became a simple tricolor.\n\nJames William van Kirk, a Methodist minister from Youngstown (Ohio, USA), designed the first world peace flag of the Earth, using rainbow stripes, stars and a globe. In 1913 and 1929, he made a peace tour through Europe with his flag. He traveled around the world arguing for \"the brotherhood of man and the Fatherhood of God\".\n\nThe Universal Peace Congress eventually came to adopt Kirk's flag as its official World Peace Flag, and it was subsequently adopted by the American Peace Society as well as other groups. It consisted of \"the earth on a blue field covered with white stars; a white band crossed the globe and to the left was broken up into a spectrum representing the variations of the human race — different, but united in peace\".\n\nIn 1938, Kirk authored an autobiography, \"Stranger than fiction : four times around the world, designer of world flag, a world builder, at 80 years makes a new start in life\".\n\nThe \"banner of peace\" is a symbol of the Roerich Pact. This pact was the first international treaty dedicated to the protection of artistic and scientific institutions and historical monuments. It was signed on April 15, 1935. The banner of peace was proposed by Nicholas Roerich for an international pact for the protection of culture values.\n\nThe most common recent design is a rainbow flag representing peace, first used in Italy at a peace march in 1961. The flag was inspired by similar multi-coloured flags used in demonstrations against nuclear weapons. A previous version had featured a dove drawn by Pablo Picasso.\n\nThe most common variety has seven colours — purple, blue, azure, green, yellow, orange, and red — and is emblazoned in bold with the Italian word \"PACE\", meaning \"peace\".\n\nIt became popular with the \"Pace da tutti i balconi\" (\"peace from every balcony\") campaign in 2002, started as a protest against the impending war in the world. The flag was flown from balconies in all Italian cities by citizens against the war. Its use spread to other countries too, and the Italian \"Pace\" was sometimes, but not everywhere, replaced with the corresponding translation in the local languages.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, producer Franco Belsito had produced about 1,000 flags per year for 18 years, and suddenly had to cope with a demand in the range of the millions.\n\nCommon variations include moving the purple stripe down below the azure one, and adding a white stripe on top.\n\nThe seven-color peace flag is not to be confused with the similar six-color gay pride flag, which does not have azure (it has turquoise) and the colors are in opposite order: with red at the top.\n\nRobert A. Heinlein, in his 1947 short story \"The Green Hills of Earth\", referred to \"Terra's [Earth's] rainbow banner\".\n\nThe first large peace flag was made in Lecce, Salento, Italy by the association \"GPace - Youth for peace\" on Saturday, 14 November 2009. It was 21 m wide and 40 m long. Three years later this record was broken. On September the 21st 2012 the Belgian Peace Organisation Vrede vzw, Vredeshuis Ghent and five city schools unfolded the worlds largest peace flag (30 m wide and 50 m long) in the historic center of Ghent. The action aimed to reinforce the demand to disarm in order to make room for sustainable development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37528165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37528165", "title": "Plebanski tensor", "text": "Plebanski tensor\n\nThe Plebanski tensor is a order 4 tensor in general relativity constructed from the trace-free Ricci tensor. It was first defined by Jerzy Plebański in 1964.\n\nLet formula_1 be the trace-free Ricci tensor:\n\nThen the Plebanski tensor is defined as\n\nThe advantage of the Plebanski tensor is that it shares the same symmetries as the Weyl tensor. It therefore becomes possible to classify different spacetimes based on additional algebraic symmetries of the Plebanski tensor in a manner analogous to the Petrov classification.\n"}
{"id": "14660345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14660345", "title": "Realistic conflict theory", "text": "Realistic conflict theory\n\nRealistic conflict theory (initialized RCT), also known as realistic group conflict theory (initialized RGCT), is a social psychological model of intergroup conflict. The theory explains how intergroup hostility can arise as a result of conflicting goals and competition over limited resources, and it also offers an explanation for the feelings of prejudice and discrimination toward the outgroup that accompany the intergroup hostility. Groups may be in competition for a real or perceived scarcity of resources such as money, political power, military protection, or social status. \n\nFeelings of resentment can arise in the situation that the groups see the competition over resources as having a zero-sums fate, in which only one group is the winner (obtained the needed or wanted resources) and the other loses (unable to obtain the limited resource due to the \"winning\" group achieving the limited resource first). The length and severity of the conflict is based upon the perceived value and shortage of the given resource. According to RCT, positive relations can only be restored if superordinate goals are in place.\n\nThe theory was officially named by Donald Campbell, but has been articulated by others since the middle of the 20th century. In the 1960s, this theory developed from Campbell's recognition of social psychologists' tendency to reduce all human behavior to hedonistic goals. He criticized psychologists like John Thibaut, Harold Kelley, and George Homans, who emphasized theories that place food, sex, and pain avoidance as central to all human processes. According to Campbell, hedonistic assumptions do not adequately explain intergroup relations. Campbell believed that these social exchange theorists oversimplified human behavior by likening interpersonal interaction to animal behavior. Similar to the ideas of Campbell, other researchers also began recognizing a problem in the psychological understanding of intergroup behavior. These researchers noted that prior to Campbell, social exchange theorists ignored the essence of social psychology and the importance of interchanges between groups. To the contrary of prior theories, RCT takes into account the sources of conflict between groups, which include, incompatible goals and competition over limited resources.\n\nThe 1954 Robbers Cave Experiment by Muzafer Sherif and Carolyn Wood Sherif represents one of the most widely known demonstrations of RCT. The Sherifs' study was conducted over three weeks in a 200-acre summer camp in Robbers Cave State Park, Oklahoma, focusing on intergroup behavior. In this study, researchers posed as camp personnel, observing 22 eleven- and twelve-year-old boys who had never previously met and had comparable backgrounds.\n\nThe experiment was divided into three stages. The first stage being \"ingroup formation\", in which upon arrival the boys were split into two approximately equal groups based on similarities. Each group was unaware of the other group's presence. The second stage was the \"friction phase\", wherein the groups were entered in competition with one another in various camp games. Valued prizes were awarded to the winners. This caused both groups to develop negative attitudes and behaviors towards the outgroup. The third and final stage was the \"integration stage\". During this stage, tensions between the groups were reduced through teamwork-driven tasks that required intergroup cooperation.\n\nThe Sherifs made several conclusions based on the three-stage Robbers Cave Experiment. From the study, he determined that because the groups were created to be approximately equal, individual differences are not necessary or responsible for intergroup conflict to occur. As seen in the study when the boys were competing in camp games for valued prizes, Sherif noted that hostile and aggressive attitudes toward an outgroup arise when groups compete for resources that only one group can attain. Sherif also establishes that contact with an outgroup is insufficient, by itself, to reduce negative attitudes. Finally, he concludes that friction between groups can be reduced along with positive intergroup relations maintained, only in the presence of superordinate goals that promote united, cooperative action.\n\nHowever a further review of the Robber's Cave Experiments, which were in fact a series of three separate experiments carried out by the Sherifs and colleagues reveals additional deliberations. In two earlier studies the boys ganged up on a common enemy, and in fact on occasion ganged up on the experimenters themselves showing an awareness of being manipulated. In addition, Michael Billig argues that in addition to the two groups of boys, the experimenters themselves form a third group, and one that is arguably the most powerful of the three and that they in fact become the outgroup themselves in the aforementioned experiment. \n\nLutfy Diab repeated the experiment with 18 boys from Beirut. The 'Blue Ghost' and 'Red Genies' groups each contained 5 Christians and 4 Muslims. Fighting soon broke out, not Christian vs Muslim but Blue vs Red. \n\nRCT offers an explanation for negative attitudes toward racial integration and efforts to promote diversity. This is illustrated in the data collected from the Michigan National Election Studies survey. According to the survey, most whites held negative attitudes toward school districts' attempts to integrate schools via school busing in the 1970s. In these surveys, there was a general perceived threat that whites had of African Americans. It can be concluded that, contempt towards racial integration was due to a perception of blacks as a danger to valued lifestyles, goals, and resources, rather than symbolic racism or prejudice attitudes formulated during childhood.\n\nRCT can also provide an explanation for why competition over limited resources in communities can present potentially harmful consequences in establishing successful organizational diversity. In the workplace, this is depicted by the concept that increased racial heterogeneity among employees is associated with job dissatisfaction among majority members. Since organizations are affixed in the communities to which their employees belong, the racial makeup of employees' communities affect attitudes toward diversity in the workplace. As racial heterogeneity increases in a white community, white employees are less accepting of workplace diversity. RCT provides an explanation of this pattern because in communities of mixed races, members of minority groups are seen as competing for economic security, power, and prestige with the majority group.\n\nRCT can help explain discrimination against different ethnic and racial groups. An example of this is shown in cross-cultural studies that determined that violence between different groups escalates in relationship to shortages in resources. When a group have a notion that resources are limited and only available for possession by one group, this leads to attempts to remove the source of competition. Groups can attempt to remove their competition by increasing their groups capabilities (e.g. skill training), decreasing the abilities of the outgroups competition (e.g. expressing negative attitudes or applying punitive tariffs), or by decreasing proximity to the outgroup (e.g. denying immigrant access).\n\nRealistic conflict theory originally only described the results of competition between two groups of equal status. John Duckitt suggests that the theory be expanded to include competition between groups of unequal status. To demonstrate this, Duckitt created a scheme of types of realistic conflict with groups of unequal status and their resulting correlation with prejudice.\n\nDuckitt concluded that there are at least two types of conflict based on ingroups competition with an outgroup. The first is 'competition with an equal group' and is explained by realistic conflict theory. Thus being, group-based threat that leads ingroup members to feel hostile towards the outgroup which can lead to conflict as the ingroup focuses on acquiring the threatened resource. The second type of conflict is 'domination of the outgroup by the ingroup'. This occurs when the ingroup and outgroup do not have equal status. If domination occurs, there are two responses the subordinate group may have. One is stable oppression, in which the subordinate group accepts the dominating group's attitudes on some focal issue and sometimes, the dominant group's deeper values to avoid further conflict. The second response that may occur is unstable oppression. This occurs when the subordinate group rejects the lower status forced upon them, and sees the dominating group as oppressive. The dominant group then may view the subordinates' challenge as either justified or unjustified. If it is seen as unjustified, the dominant group will likely respond to the subordinates' rebellion with hostility. If the subordinates' rebellion is viewed as justified, the subordinates are given the power to demand change. An example of this would be the eventual recognition of the civil rights movement in the 1960s in the United States.\n\nWhen group conflict extends to nations or tribes, regality theory argues that the collective danger leads citizens to start having strong feelings of national or tribal identity, preferring strong, hierarchical political system, adopting strict discipline and punishment of deviants, and expressing xenophobia and strict religious and sexual morality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34987291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34987291", "title": "Rhyme-as-reason effect", "text": "Rhyme-as-reason effect\n\nThe rhyme-as-reason effect (or \"Eaton-Rosen\" phenomenon) is a cognitive bias whereupon a saying or aphorism is judged as more accurate or truthful when it is rewritten to rhyme.\n\nIn experiments, subjects judged variations of sayings which did and did not rhyme, and tended to evaluate those that rhymed as more truthful (controlled for meaning). For example, the statement \"What sobriety conceals, alcohol reveals\" was judged to be more accurate than by different participants who saw \"What sobriety conceals, alcohol unmasks\". \n\nThe effect could be caused by the \"Keats\" heuristic, according to which a statement's truth is evaluated according to aesthetic qualities; or the fluency heuristic, according to which things could be preferred due their ease of cognitive processing.\n\nFor an example of the persuasive quality of the rhyme-as-reason effect, see \"If it doesn't fit, you must acquit\" the signature phrase used by Johnnie Cochran to gain acquittal for O.J. Simpson in Simpson's murder trial.\n"}
{"id": "10438077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10438077", "title": "Robin Hood effect", "text": "Robin Hood effect\n\nThe Robin Hood effect is an economic occurrence where income is redistributed so that economic inequality is reduced. The effect is named after Robin Hood, said to have stolen from the rich to give to the poor.\n\nA Robin Hood effect can be caused by a large number of different policies or economic decisions, not all of which are specifically aimed at reducing inequality. This article lists only some of these.\n\nSimon Kuznets argued that one major factor behind levels of economic inequality is the stage of economic development of a country. Kuznets described a curve-like relationship between level of income and inequality, as shown. That theory prescribes that countries with very low levels of development will have relatively equal distributions of wealth.\n\nAs a country develops, it necessarily acquires more capital, and the owners of this capital will then have more wealth and income, which introduces inequality. However, eventually various possible redistribution mechanisms such as trickle down effects and social welfare programs will lead to a Robin Hood effect, with wealth redistributed to the poor. Therefore, more developed countries move back to lower levels of inequality.\n\nMany countries have an income tax system where the first part of a worker's salary is taxed very little or not at all, while those on higher salaries must pay a higher tax rate on earnings over a certain threshold, known as progressive taxation. This has the effect of the better-off population paying a higher proportion of their salary in tax, effectively subsidising the less-well off, leading to a Robin Hood effect.\n\nSpecifically, a progressive tax is a tax by which the tax rate increases as the taxable base amount increases. \"Progressive\" describes a distribution effect on income or expenditure, referring to the way the rate progresses from low to high, where the average tax rate is less than the marginal tax rate. It can be applied to individual taxes or to a tax system as a whole; a year, multi-year, or lifetime. Progressive taxes attempt to reduce the tax incidence of people with a lower ability-to-pay, as they shift the incidence increasingly to those with a higher ability-to-pay.\n\nIn many developing countries, mobile communications networks tend to experience a large network externality, which regulators and operators seek to correct by subsidising subscriptions through increased prices for call termination. That then allows the less-well off in that country to gain access to communications services, often for free (on a prepay tariff). The additional cost is then levied on subscribers who make calls to these new subscribers; the call originators tend to be better-off. Therefore, despite there being no direct transfer of money, there is a strong Robin Hood effect, with the better-off subsidising the less well-off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57063876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57063876", "title": "Sandra Bundy", "text": "Sandra Bundy\n\nSandra Bundy is best known for her part in landmark case \"Bundy v. Jackson\", which was the first federal appeals court case to hold that workplace sexual harassment was employment discrimination and a violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\n\nSandra Bundy was born on March 12, 1934 and grew up in Washington, D.C. Her father left the family when she was still a child. She has said she believes a lack of a father figure may have contributed to her problems with relationships later in life. She graduated in 1952 from Armstrong Technical, a D.C. public high school that is now closed. Bundy studied for two years at the (now) University of the District of Columbia, but did not complete her degree.\n\nBundy was married five times. Two of her husbands beat her, giving her concussions. She had five children, though one daughter died as a toddler after a neighborhood boy lit the 3-year-old's dress on fire with matches. None of her children's fathers stayed in Bundy's life or paid child support.\n\nBundy participated in the Civil Rights movement in the 1960s, including attending marches. She also started a union supporting an end to racial segregation in the workforce.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Bundy worked as a U.S. Department of Commerce clerk during the day, and as a grocery store cashier at night, but was still having major financial problems and filed for bankruptcy. Her boss at the U.S. Department of Commerce said she couldn't receive any more promotions because she lacked a college degree and she decided to find a new job.\n\nBundy, then a single mother of four children, joined the city government believing it offered opportunities for advancement and was hired by the District of Columbia Department of Corrections (DCDC) in 1970. She earned a yearly salary of $10,500, which was more than twice the starting salary of her old job, and was able to quit her second job as a night cashier. She was promoted several times and became a vocational rehabilitation specialist and helped former inmates find jobs.\n\nBundy alleges that four supervisors sexually harassed her between 1972-1975, including Arthur Burton, James Gainey, Lawrence Swain and Delbert Jackson. \n\nHer supervisor Arthur Burton began making sexual comments about her in 1974, and asked her several times to leave work and go home with him, though Bundy said no every time. One time Burton called Bundy's home in the evening, though her number was unlisted, and then hung up on her when she refused to meet with him.\n\nAfter a time, Bundy's former colleague James Gainey became her new supervisor. He began doing things in the office that made her uncomfortable, like patting her buttocks and calling her “fine Momma.” He once invited her on a vacation, which she refused. He often asked her to sleep with him, and once said, \"I’ve got a pocketful of money. Let’s take the afternoon off to a motel and lay up.\" She said no to each of his advances.\n\nBundy's supervisors regularly criticized her for taking too much time off and poor work performance, though she had never received such criticisms before rejecting their advances. At one point, Gainey threatened to fire her. Bundy later learned she’d been overlooked for a promotion while her male colleagues had moved up or been recommended. When she complained to her supervisors' superior Lawrence Swain, he told her that \"any man in his right mind would want to rape you.\" The next time she complained to him, he ignored her complaints and asked if she was dating anyone, adding, “Because if not, I want to take you to bed myself.” On the advice of a female colleague, she began keeping a diary and recording each incident.\n\nBundy began having trouble sleeping, and lost weight. She often cried and once contemplated suicide. She started seeing a psychiatrist, and was prescribed medication for anxiety and depression.\n\nYears earlier, a colleague named Delbert Jackson had made several unsuccessful passes at Bundy and tried to get her to drink with him (she didn't drink), but when he was promoted to director of the DCDC she got desperate and went to him for help in April 1975. However, he and other boardmembers refused to concede she had a case. \n\nBundy sought help from the Equal Employment Opportunity officers at the DCDC, but they cautioned her against bringing unwarranted complaints. Bundy's black co-workers criticized her for bringing forth the suit. However, Bundy filed an informal and then a formal complaint. \n\nWhen no action was taken, Bundy met with lawyer Robert Adler, who agreed to take on the case even though there was no legal precedent and Bundy didn't have much money to offer. Bundy filed suit in 1977 in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia seeking declaratory and injunctive relief. \"Bundy v. Jackson\" was heavily covered by the press and although it initially lost in court, after being appealed it became the first federal appeals court case to hold that workplace sexual harassment was employment discrimination and a violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Five years later the Supreme Court agreed with this holding in \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson.\"\n\nA feature film about her life called \"Silence Breaker: The Sandra Bundy Story\", was announced by Adaptive Studios and EnLight Productions in March 2018.\n\nBundy lives near Washington, DC. She has a piano and enjoys gardening, which she has said is \"therapy for me.\"\n"}
{"id": "1875075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875075", "title": "Self-control", "text": "Self-control\n\nSelf-control, an aspect of inhibitory control, is the ability to regulate one's emotions, thoughts, and behavior in the face of temptations and impulses. As an executive function, self-control is a cognitive process that is necessary for regulating one's behavior in order to achieve specific goals.\n\nA related concept in psychology is emotional self-regulation. Self-control is like a muscle. According to studies, self-regulation, whether emotional or behavioral, was proven to be a limited resource which functions like energy. In the short term, overuse of self-control will lead to depletion. However, in the long term, the use of self-control can strengthen and improve over time.\n\nSelf-control is also a key concept in the general theory of crime, a major theory in criminology. The theory was developed by Michael Gottfredson and Travis Hirschi in their book titled \"A General Theory of Crime\", published in 1990. Gottfredson and Hirschi define self-control as the differential tendency of individuals to avoid criminal acts independent of the situations in which they find themselves. Individuals with low self-control tend to be impulsive, insensitive towards others, risk takers, short-sighted, and nonverbal. The general theory of crime holds that self-control is established in early childhood through three major factors: the strength of the parent-to-child emotional bond, adequate supervision by parents, parents' ability to recognize punishable behavior, and appropriate discipline by parents.\n\nDesire is an affectively charged motivation toward a certain object, person, or activity, but not limited to, that associated with pleasure or relief from displeasure. Desires vary in strength and duration. A desire becomes a temptation when it impacts or enters the individual's area of self-control, if the behavior resulting from the desire conflicts with an individual’s values or other self-regulatory goals. A limitation to research on desire is the issue of individuals desiring different things. New research looked at what people desire in real world settings. Over one week, 7,827 self-reports of desires were collected and indicated significant differences in desire frequency and strength, degree of conflict between desires and other goals, and the likelihood of resisting desire and success of the resistance. The most common and strongly experienced desires are those related to bodily needs like eating, drinking, and sleeping. This study has many implications related to self-control and the everyday things that interfere with people’s ability to stay on task. This is a big reason why self-control is considered to be a public speaker's worst nightmare.\n\nDesires that conflict with overarching goals or values are known as temptations. Self-control dilemmas occur when long-term goals and values clash with short-term temptations. Counteractive Self-Control Theory states that when presented with such a dilemma, we lessen the significance of the instant rewards while momentarily increasing the importance of our overall values. When asked to rate the perceived appeal of different snacks before making a decision, people valued health bars over chocolate bars. However, when asked to do the rankings after having chosen a snack, there was no significant difference of appeal. Further, when college students completed a questionnaire prior to their course registration deadline, they ranked leisure activities as less important and enjoyable than when they filled out the survey after the deadline passed. The stronger and more available the temptation is, the harsher the devaluation will be.\n\nOne of the most common self-control dilemmas involves the desire for unhealthy or unneeded food consumption versus the desire to maintain long-term health. An indication of unneeded food could also be over expenditure on certain types of consumption such as eating away from home. Not knowing how much to spend, or overspending one’s budget on eating out can be an symptom of a lack of self control. Experiment participants rated a new snack as significantly less healthy when it was described as very tasty compared to when they heard it was just slightly tasty. Without knowing anything else about a food, the mere suggestion of good taste triggers counteractive self-control and prompted them to devalue the temptation in the name of health. Further, when presented with the strong temptation of one large bowl of chips, participants both perceived the chips to be higher in calories and ate less of them than did participants who faced the weak temptation of three smaller chip bowls, even though both conditions represented the same amount of chips overall. Weak temptations are falsely perceived to be less unhealthy, so self-control is not triggered and desirable actions are more often engaged in, supporting the counteractive self-control theory. Weak temptations present more of a challenge to overcome than strong temptations, because they appear less likely to compromise long-term values.\n\nThe decrease in an individual's liking of and desire for a substance following repeated consumption of that substance is known as satiation. Satiation rates when eating depend on interactions of trait self-control and healthiness of the food. After eating equal amounts of either clearly healthy (raisins and peanuts) or unhealthy (M&Ms and Skittles) snack foods, people who scored higher on trait self-control tests reported feeling significantly less desire to eat more of the unhealthy foods than they did the healthy foods. Those with low trait self-control satiated at the same pace regardless of health value. Further, when reading a description emphasizing the sweet flavor of their snack, participants with higher trait self-control reported a decrease in desire faster than they did after hearing a description of the healthy benefits of their snack. Once again, those with low self-control satiated at the same rate regardless of health condition. Perceived unhealthiness of the food alone, regardless of actual health level, relates to faster satiation, but only for people with high trait self-control.\n\nThinking that is characterized by high construals, whenever individuals \"are obliged to infer additional details of content, context, or meaning in the actions and outcomes that unfold around them\", will view goals and values in a global, abstract sense. Whereas low level construals emphasize concrete, definitive ideas and categorizations. Different construal levels determine our activation of self-control in response to temptations. One technique for inducing high-level construals is asking an individual a series of \"why?\" questions that will lead to increasingly abstracted responses, whereas low-level construals are induced by \"how?\" questions leading to increasingly concrete answers. When taking an Implicit Association Test, people with induced high-level construals are significantly faster at associating temptations (such as candy bars) with \"bad,\" and healthy choices (such as apples) with \"good\" than those in the low-level condition. Further, higher-level construals also show a significantly increased likelihood of choosing an apple for snack over a candy bar. Without any conscious or active self-control efforts, temptations can be dampened by merely inducing high-level construals. It is suggested that the abstraction of high-level construals reminds people of their overall, lifelong values, such as a healthy lifestyle, which deemphasizes the current tempting situation.\n\nPositive correlation between linguistic capability and self-control has been inferred from experiments with common chimpanzees.\n\nHuman self-control research is typically modeled by using a token economy system. A token economy system is a behavioral program in which individuals in a group can earn tokens for a variety of desirable behaviors and can cash in the tokens for various backup, positive reinforcers. The difference in research methodologies with humans - using tokens or conditioned reinforcers versus non-humans using sub-primary forces suggested procedural artifacts as a possible suspect. One aspect of these procedural differences was the delay to the exchange period (Hyten et al. 1994). Non-human subjects can and most likely would access their reinforcement immediately. The human subjects had to wait for an \"exchange period\" in which they could exchange their tokens for money, usually at the end of the experiment. When this was done with the non-human subjects, in the form of pigeons, they responded much like humans in that males showed much less control than females. (Jackson & Hackenberg 1996). Logue, (1995), who is discussed more below, points out that in her study done on self-control it was male children who responded with less self-control than female children. She then states, that in adulthood, for the most part, the sexes equalize on their ability to exhibit self-control. This could imply a human's ability to exert more self-control as they mature and become aware of the consequences associated with impulsivity. This suggestion is further examined below.\n\nMost of the research in the field of self-control assumes that self-control is in general better than impulsiveness. As a result, almost all research done on this topic is from this standpoint and very rarely is impulsiveness the more adaptive response in experimental design.\n\nSelf-control is a measurable variable in humans. In the worst circumstances people with the most or high self-control and resilience have the best odds of defying the odds they are faced with, which could be poverty, bad schooling, unsafe communities, etc. Those at a disadvantage with high self-control go on to higher education and professional jobs, but this seems to have a negative effect on their health.\n\nWhen looking at people who come from advantage backgrounds with high self-control, we see a different phenomenon happening. Those who come from an advantaged background tend to be high-achieving and with their achievement comes good health. The psychological phenomenon known as “John Henryism” posits that when goal-oriented, success-minded people strive ceaselessly in the absence of adequate support and resources, they can—like the mighty 19th-century folk legend who fell dead of an aneurysm after besting a steam-powered drill in a railroad-spike-driving competition—work themselves to death. Or, at least, toward it. In the 1980s Sherman James a socio-epidemiologist from North Carolina found that black Americans in the state suffered disproportionately from heart disease and strokes. He too landed on \"John Henryism\" as the cause of this phenomenon.\n\nMore recently some in the field of developmental psychology have begun to think of self-control in a more complicated way that takes into account that sometimes impulsiveness is the more adaptive response. In their view, a normal individual should have the capacity to be either impulsive or controlled depending on which is the most adaptive. However, this is a recent shift in paradigm and there is little research conducted along these lines.\n\nB.F. Skinner's \"Science and Human Behavior\" provides a survey of nine categories of self-control methods.\n\nThe manipulation of the environment to make some responses easier to physically execute and others more difficult illustrate this principle. This can be referred to as physical guidance which is the application of physical contact to induce an individual to go through the motions of a desired behavior. This concept can also be referred to as a physical prompt. Examples of this include clapping one’s hand over one’s own mouth, placing one’s hand in one’s pocket to prevent fidgeting, and using a ‘bridge’ hand position to steady a pool shot all represent physical methods to affect behavior.\n\nManipulating the occasion for behavior may change behavior as well. Removing distractions that induce undesired actions or adding a prompt to induce it are examples. Hiding temptation and reminders are two more. The need to hide temptation is a result of its effect on the mind. A common theme among studies of desire is an investigation of the underlying cognitive processes of a craving for an addictive substance, such as nicotine or alcohol. In order to better understand the cognitive processes involved, the Elaborated Intrusion (EI) theory of craving was developed. According to the EI theory, craving persists because individuals develop mental images of the coveted substance that are instantly pleasurable, but which also increase their awareness of deficit. The result is a cruel circle of desire, imagery, and preparation to satisfy the desire. This quickly escalates into greater expression of the imagery that incorporates working memory, interferes with performance on simultaneous cognitive tasks, and strengthens the emotional response. Essentially the mind is consumed by the craving for a desired substance, and this craving in turn interrupts any concurrent cognitive tasks. Obviously a craving for nicotine or alcohol is an extreme case, but nevertheless the EI theory holds true for more normal motivations and desires.\n\nDeprivation is the time in which an individual does not receive a reinforcer, while satiation occurs when an individual has received a reinforcer to such a degree that it will temporarily have no reinforcing power over them. If we deprive ourselves of a stimulus, the value of that reinforcement increases. For example, if an individual has been deprived of food, they may go to extreme measures to get that food, such as stealing. On the other hand, when we have an exceeding amount of a reinforcer, that reinforcement loses its value; if an individual eats a large meal, they may no longer be enticed by the reinforcement of dessert.\n\nOne may manipulate one's own behavior by affecting states of deprivation or satiation. By skipping a meal before a free dinner one may more effectively capitalize on the free meal. By eating a healthy snack beforehand the temptation to eat free \"junk food\" is reduced.\n\nAlso noteworthy is the importance of imagery in desire cognition during a state of deprivation. A study conducted on this topic involved smokers divided into two groups. The control group was instructed to continue smoking as usual until they arrived at the laboratory, where they were then asked to read a multisensory neutral script, meaning it was not related to a craving for nicotine. The experimental group, however, was asked to abstain from smoking before coming to the laboratory in order to induce craving and upon their arrival were told to read a multisensory urge-induction script intended to intensify their nicotine craving. Once the participants finished reading the script they rated their craving for cigarettes. Next they formulated visual or auditory images when prompted with verbal cues such as \"a game of tennis\" or \"a telephone ringing.\" After this task the participants again rated their craving for cigarettes. The study found that the craving experienced by the abstaining smokers was decreased to the control group's level by visual imagery but not by auditory imagery alone. That mental imagery served to reduce the level of craving in smokers illustrates that it can be used as a method of self-control during times of deprivation.\n\nWe manipulate emotional conditions in order to induce certain ways of responding. One example of this can be seen in theatre. Actors often elicit tears from painful memories if it is necessary for the character they are playing. This idea is similar to the notion if we read a letter, book, listen to music, watch a movie, in order to get us in the \"mood\" so we can be in the proper state of mind for a certain event or function. Additionally, treating an activity as \"work\" or \"fun\" can have an effect on the difficulty of self-control.\n\nIn order to analyze the possible effects of the cognitive transformation of an object on desire, a study was conducted based on a well-known German chocolate product. The study involved 71 undergraduate students, all of whom were familiar with the chocolate product. The participants were randomly assigned to one of three groups: the control condition, the consummatory condition, and the nonconsummatory transformation condition. Each group was then given three minutes to complete their assigned task. The participants in the control condition were told to read a neutral article about a location in South America that was devoid of any words associated with food consumption. Those in the consummatory condition were instructed to imagine as clearly as possible how consuming the chocolate would taste and feel. The participants in the nonconsummatory transformation condition were told to imagine as clearly as possible odd settings or uses for the chocolate. Next, all the participants underwent a manipulation task that required them to rate their mood on a five-point scale in response to ten items they viewed. Following the manipulation task, participants completed automatic evaluations that measured their reaction time to six different images of the chocolate, each of which was paired with a positive or a negative stimuli. The results showed that the participants instructed to imagine the consumption of the chocolate demonstrated higher automatic evaluations toward the chocolate than did the participants told to imagine odd settings or uses for the chocolate, and participants in the control condition fell in-between the two experimental conditions. This indicates that the manner in which one considers an item influences how much it is desired.\n\nAversive stimulation is used as a means of increasing or decreasing the likelihood of target behavior. Similar to all methods of self-management, there is a controlling response, and a controlled response. An averse stimuli is sometimes referred to as a punisher or simply an aversive. Closely related to the idea of a punisher is the concept of punishment. Punishment is the idea that in a given situation, someone does something that is immediately followed by a punisher, then that person is less likely to do the same thing again when she or he next encounters a similar situation. An example of this can be seen when a teenage stays out past curfew. After staying out past curfew the teenagers parents ground the teenager. Because the teenager has been punished for his or her behavior he or she is less likely to stay out past their curfew again, thus decreasing the likelihood of the target behavior.\n\nCertain types of drugs affect self-controls. Stimulants, such as methylphenidate and amphetamine, improve inhibitory control in general and are used to treat ADHD. Similarly, depressants, such as alcohol, represent barriers to self-control through sluggishness, slower brain function, poor concentration, depression and disorientation.\n\nOperant conditioning sometimes referred to as Skinnerian conditioning is the process of strengthening a behavior by reinforcing it or weakening it by punishing it. By continually strengthening and reinforcing a behavior, or weakening and punishing a behavior an association as well as a consequence is made. Similarly, a behavior that is altered by its consequences is known as operant behavior There are multiple components of operant conditioning; these include reinforcement such as positive reinforcers and negative reinforcers. A positive reinforcer is a stimulus which, when presented immediately following a behavior, causes the behavior to increase in frequency. Negative reinforcers are a stimulus whose removal immediately after a response cause the response to be strengthened or to increase in frequency. Additionally, components of punishment are also incorporated such as positive punishment and negative punishment. Examples of operant conditioning can be seen every day. When a student tells a joke to one of his peers and they all laugh at this joke, this student is more likely to continue this behavior of telling jokes because his joke was reinforced by the sound of their laughing. However, if a peer tells the student his joke is \"silly\" or \"stupid\", he will be punished by telling the joke and his likelihood to tell another joke is greatly decreased. Another example of operant conditioning can be seen in the form of quitting a habit such as smoking. By using this technique to quit smoking, self-discipline must be displayed as the smoker must stop giving into their addiction.\n\nSelf-punishment of responses would include the arranging of punishment contingent upon undesired responses. This might be seen in the behavior of whipping oneself which some monks and religious persons do. This is different from aversive stimulation in that, for example, the alarm clock generates escape from the alarm, while self-punishment presents stimulation after the fact to reduce the probability of future behavior.\n\nPunishment is more like conformity than self-control because with self-control there needs to be an internal drive, not an external source of punishment that makes the person want to do something. There is external locus of control which is similar to determinism and there is internal locus of control which is similar to free will. With a learning system of punishment the person does not make their decision based upon what they want, rather they base it on the external factors. When you use a negative reinforcement you are more likely to influence their internal decisions and allow them to make the choice on their own whereas with a punishment the person will make their decisions based upon the consequences and not exert self-control. The best way to learn self-control is with free will where people are able to perceive they are making their own choices.\n\nSkinner noted that various philosophies and religions exemplified this principle by instructing believers to love their enemies. When we are filled with rage or hatred we might control ourselves by 'doing something else' or more specifically something that is incompatible with our response.\n\nFunctional imaging of the brain has shown that self-control is correlated with an area in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC), a part of the frontal lobe. This area is distinct from those involved in generating intentional actions, attention to intentions, or select between alternatives. This control occurs through the top-down inhibition of premotor cortex. There is some debate about the mechanism of self-control and how it emerges. Traditionally, researchers believed the bottom-up approach guided self-control behavior. The more time a person spends thinking about a rewarding stimulus, the more likely he or she will experience a desire for it. Information that is most important gains control of working memory, and can then be processed through a top-down mechanism. Increasing evidence suggests that top down processing plays a strong role in self-control. Specifically, top-down processing can actually regulate bottom-up attentional mechanisms. To demonstrate this, researchers studied working memory and distraction by presenting participants with neutral or negative pictures and then a math problem or no task. They found that participants reported less negative moods after solving the math problem compared to the no task group, which was due to an influence on working memory capacity.\n\nThere are many researchers working on identifying the brain areas involved in the exertion of self-control; many different areas are known to be involved. In relation to self-control mechanisms, the reward centers in the brain compare external stimuli versus internal need states and a person’s learning history. At the biological level, a loss of control is thought to be caused by a malfunctioning of a decision mechanism. A mechanistic explanation of self-control is still in its infancy. However, there is strong demand for knowledge about these mechanism because knowledge of these mechanisms would have tremendous clinical application.\nMuch of the work on how the brain reaches decisions is based on evidence from perceptual learning.\n\nMany of the tasks that subjects are tested on are not tasks typically associated with self-control, but are more general decision tasks. Nevertheless, the research on self-control is informed by more general research on decision tasks. Sources for evidence on the neural mechanisms of self-control include fMRI studies on human subject, neural recordings on animals, lesion studies on humans and animals, and clinical behavioral studies on humans with self-control disorders.\n\nThere is broad agreement that the cortex is involved in self-control. The details of the final model have yet to be worked out. However, there are some enticing findings that suggest a mechanistic account of self-control could prove to have tremendous explanatory value. What follows is a survey of some of the important recent literature on the brain regions involved in self-control.\n\nThe prefrontal cortex is located in the most anterior portion of the frontal lobe in the brain. It forms a larger portion of the cortex in humans. The dendrites in the prefrontal cortex contain up to 16 times as many dendritic spines as neurons in other cortical areas. Due to this, the prefrontal cortex integrates a large amount of information. The orbitofrontal cortex cells are important factors for self-control. If an individual has the choice between an immediate reward or a more valuable reward which they can receive later, an individual would most likely try to control the impulse to take that immediate reward. If an individual has a damaged orbitofrontal cortex, this impulse control will most likely not be as strong, and they may be more likely to take the immediate reinforcement. Additionally, we see lack of impulse control in children because the prefrontal cortex develops slowly.\n\nTodd A. Hare \"et al.\" use functional MRI techniques to show that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) are crucially involved in the exertion of self-control. They found that activity in the vmPFC was correlated with goal values and that the exertion of self-control required the modulation of the vmPFC by the DLPFC. The study found that a lack of self-control was strongly correlated with reduced activity in the DLPFC. Hare’s study is especially relevant to the self-control literature because it suggests that an important cause of poor self-control is a defective DLPFC.\n\nAlexandra W. Logue is interested in how outcomes change the possibilities of a self-control choice being made. Logue identifies three possible outcome effects: outcome delays, outcome size, and outcome contingencies. The delay of an outcome results in the perception that the outcome is less valuable than an outcome which is more readily achieved. The devaluing of the delayed outcome can cause less self-control. A way to increase self-control in situations of a delayed outcome is to pre-expose an outcome. Pre-exposure reduces the frustrations related to the delay of the outcome. An example of this is signing bonuses.\n\nOutcome size deals with the relative, perceived size of possible outcomes. There tends to be a relationship between the value of the incentive and the desired outcome; the larger the desired outcome, the larger the value. Some factors that decrease value include delay, effort/cost, and uncertainty. The decision tends to be based on the option with the higher value at the time of the decision.\n\nFinally, Logue defines the relationship between responses and outcomes as outcome contingencies. Outcome contingencies also impact the degree of self-control that a person exercises. For instance, if a person is able to change his choice after the initial choice is made, the person is far more likely to take the impulsive, rather than self-controlled, choice. Additionally, it is possible for people to make precommitment action. A precommitment action is an action meant to lead to a self-controlled action at a later period in time. When a person sets an alarm clock, they are making a precommitted response to wake up early in the morning. Hence, that person is more likely to exercise the self-controlled decision to wake up, rather than to fall back in bed for a little more sleep.\n\nCassandra B. Whyte studied locus of control and academic performance and determined that internals tend to achieve at a higher level. Internals may perceive they have options from which to choose, thus facilitating more hopeful decision-making behavior as opposed to dependence on externally determined outcomes that require less commitment, effort, or self-control.\n\nMany things affect one's ability to exert self-control, but it seems that self-control requires sufficient glucose levels in the brain. Exerting self-control depletes glucose. Reduced glucose, and poor glucose tolerance (reduced ability to transport glucose to the brain) are correlated with lower performance in tests of self-control, particularly in difficult new situations. Self-control demands that an individual work to overcome thoughts, emotions, and automatic responses/impulses. These strong efforts require higher blood glucose levels. Lower blood glucose levels can lead to unsuccessful self-control abilities. Alcohol causes a decrease of glucose levels in both the brain and the body, and it also has an impairing effect on many forms of self-control. Furthermore, failure of self-control occurs most likely during times of the day when glucose is used least effectively. Self-control thus appears highly susceptible to glucose.\n\nAn alternative explanation of the limited amounts of glucose that are found is that this depends on the allocation of glucose, not on limited supply of glucose. According to this theory, the brain has sufficient resources of glucose and also has the possibility of delivering the glucose, but the personal priorities and motivations of the individual cause the glucose to be allocated to other sites. This theory has not been tested yet.\n\nIn the 1960s, Walter Mischel tested four-year-old children for self-control in \"The Marshmallow Test\": the children were each given a marshmallow and told that they can eat it anytime they want, but if they waited 15 minutes, they would receive another marshmallow. Follow up studies showed that the results correlated well with these children's success levels in later life.\n\nA strategy used in the marshmallow test was the focus on \"hot\" and \"cool\" features of an object. The children were encouraged to think about the marshmallow's \"cool features\" such as its shape and texture, possibly comparing it to a cotton ball or a cloud. The \"hot features\" of the marshmallow would be its sweet, sticky tastiness. These hot features make it more difficult to delay gratification. By focusing on the cool features, the mind is adverted from the appealing aspects of the marshmallow, and self-control is more plausible.\n\nYears later Dr. Mischel reached out to the participants of his study who were then in their 40's. He found that those who showed less self-control by taking the single marshmallow in the initial study were more likely to develop problems with relationships, stress, and drug abuse later in life. Dr. Mischel carried out the experiment again with the same participants in order to see which parts of the brain were active during the process of self-control. The participants received scans through M.R.I to show brain activity. The results showed that those who exhibited lower levels of self-control had higher brain activity in the ventral striatum, the area that deals with positive rewards.\n\nReviews concluded that self-control is correlated with various positive life outcomes, such as happiness, adjustment and various positive psychological factors. Self-control was also negatively correlated with sociotropy which in turn is correlated with depression.\n\nThere's conflicting evidence about whether will power is finite, infinite or self-reinforcing resource, a phenomenon sometimes termed ego depletion or reverse ego depletion . However, belief that will-power is infinite or self-reinforcing is associated with greater will power, voluntary executive function.\n\nExerting self-control through the executive functions in decision making is held in some theories to deplete one's ability to do so in the future. Ego depletion is the view that high self-control requires energy and focus, and over an extended period of self-control demands, this self-control can lessen. There are ways to help this ego depletion. One way is through rest and relaxation from these high demands. Additionally, training self-control with certain behaviors can also help to strengthen an individual’s self-control. This seems to be particularly effective in those who would otherwise have difficulty controlling their impulses in the domain of interest. Another way to overcome unwanted desires is to change the method with which we approach desire. One study in particular analyzed the impact of approaching a temptation by defining it in abstract, general terms as opposed to specific, concrete details. For the purposes of the study, approaching a situation using general terms was defined as the high-level construal condition whereas using specific details was termed the low-level construal condition. The study involved 42 college students who were randomly assigned to either the high-level or low-level construal condition. The participants were then presented with a packet that described five scenarios, each one involving a unique self-control conflict. For those participants in the high-level construal condition the scenarios were described using only general terms and for those in the low-level construal condition the scenarios were described using only specific details. After imagining themselves in each scenario, the participants were asked to indicate how bad they would feel if they indulged in the temptation using a six-point scale ranging from \"not at all bad\" to \"very bad.\" The data showed that participants in the high-level construal condition reported greater negative evaluations of temptations than did participants in the low-level construal conditions. This implies that individuals using high-level construals are better able to place a temptation in context and properly evaluate its long-term impact, and therefore are more likely to maintain self-control.\n\nKelly McGonigal defines willpower as \"the ability to do what you really want to do when part of you really doesn’t want to do it.\" It consists of three competing elements: 1) I will – the ability to do what you need to do; 2) I won’t – the other side of self-control; the ability to resist temptation; and 3) I want – your true want, the ability to remember the big picture of your life. Willpower is a resource that gets depleted, particularly when you are rundown or hungry. However, you may increase your capacity for willpower by engaging in activities such as mindfulness, meditation and exercise and/or by ensuring good nutrition and adequate sleep.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218407", "title": "Sexual assault", "text": "Sexual assault\n\nSexual assault is an act in which a person intentionally sexually touches another person without that person's consent, or coerces or physically forces a person to engage in a sexual act against their will. It is a form of sexual violence which includes rape (forced vaginal, anal or oral penetration or drug facilitated sexual assault), groping, child sexual abuse or the torture of the person in a sexual manner.\nGenerally, sexual assault is defined as unwanted sexual contact. The Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network defines sexual assault as \"unwanted sexual contact that stops short of rape or attempted rape. This includes sexual touching and fondling.\"\n\nThe National Center for Victims of Crime states:\n\nIn the United States, the definition of sexual assault varies widely among the individual states. However, in most states sexual assault occurs when there is lack of consent from one of the individuals involved. Consent must take place between two adults who are not incapacitated and can change during any time during the sexual act.\n\nChild sexual abuse is a form of child abuse in which an adult or older adolescent abuses a child for sexual stimulation. Forms of child sexual abuse include asking or pressuring a child to engage in sexual activities (regardless of the outcome), indecent exposure of the genitals to a child, displaying pornography to a child, actual sexual contact against a child, physical contact with the child's genitals, viewing of the child's genitalia without physical contact or using a child to produce child pornography.\n\nThe effects of child sexual abuse include depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, propensity to re-victimization in adulthood, physical injury to the child, and increased risk for future interpersonal violence perpetration among males, among other problems. Sexual abuse by a family member is a form of incest. It is more common than other forms of sexual assault on a child and can result in more serious and long-term psychological trauma, especially in the case of parental incest.\n\nApproximately 15 to 25 percent of women and 5 to 15 percent of men were sexually abused when they were children. Most sexual abuse offenders are acquainted with their victims. Approximately 30 percent of the perpetrators are relatives of the child- most often brothers, fathers, mothers, sisters and uncles or cousins. Around 60 percent are other acquaintances such as friends of the family, babysitters, or neighbors. Strangers are the offenders in approximately 10 percent of child sexual abuse cases.\n\nStudies have shown that the psychological damage is particularly severe when sexual assault is committed by parents against children due to the incestuous nature of the assault. Incest between a child or adolescent and a related adult has been identified as the most widespread form of child sexual abuse with a huge capacity for damage to a child. Often, sexual assault on a child is not reported by the child for several of the following reasons:\n\n\nMany states have criminalized sexual contact between teachers or school administrators and students, even if the student is over the age of consent.\n\nDomestic violence is a crime of power and intimidation. It is strongly correlated with sexual assault. Not only can domestic abuse be emotional, physical, psychological and financial, but it can be sexual. Some of the signs of sexual abuse are similar to those of domestic violence.\n\nElderly sexual assault is victimization of persons over the age of 60, most of whom suffer from decreased functionality, frailty and weakness, and therefore are reliant on caretakers. Only 30 percent of people age 65 or older who are victimized report the assault to the police. The most common assailants are caretakers, adult children, spouses and fellow facility residents.\nSigns that an elder is being assaulted include increased vaginal tearing, bleeding, bruising, infection, pelvic injury, soft tissue or bone injury. Also, an altered mood might be an indication of sexual assault. These symptoms include extreme agitation, post-traumatic stress disorder, withdrawal, panic attacks, STDs, exacerbation of existing illness, sleep disturbances and longer recovery times.\n\nThe term \"groping\" is used to define the touching or fondling of another person in a sexual way without the person's consent. Groping may occur under or over clothing.\n\nOutside of law, the term rape, \"an assault by a person involving sexual intercourse with another person without that person's consent\", is often used interchangeably with sexual assault. Although closely related, the two terms are technically distinct in most jurisdictions. Assault typically includes rape and other forms of non-consensual sexual activity.\n\nAbbey \"et al.\" state that female victims are much more likely to be assaulted by an acquaintance, such as a friend or co-worker, a dating partner, an ex-boyfriend or a husband or other intimate partner than by a complete stranger. In a study of hospital emergency room treatments for rape, Kaufman \"et al.\" stated that the male victims as a group sustained more physical trauma and were more likely to have been a victim of multiple assaults from multiple assailants. It was also stated that male victims were more likely to have been held captive longer.\n\nIn the U.K., attempted rape under the Criminal Attempts Act 1981 is a 'sexual offence' within section 31(1) of the Criminal Justice Act 1991.\n\nSexual harassment is intimidation, bullying or coercion of a sexual nature. It may also be defined as the unwelcome or inappropriate promise of rewards in exchange for sexual favors. In the United States, sexual harassment is a form of discrimination which violates Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The legal and social definition of what constitutes sexual harassment differ widely by culture. Sexual harassment includes a wide range of behaviors from seemingly mild transgressions to serious forms of abuse. Some forms of sexual harassment overlap with sexual assault. According to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC): \"Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitutes sexual harassment when submission to or rejection of this conduct explicitly or implicitly affects an individual's employment, unreasonably interferes with an individual's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment.\"\n\nMass sexual assault takes place in public places and in crowds. It involves large groups of men surrounding and assaulting a woman, groping, manual penetration, and frottage, but usually stopping short of penile rape.\n\nAside from physical traumas, rape and other sexual assault often result in long-term emotional effects, particularly in child victims. These can include:\ndenial, learned helplessness, genophobia, anger, self-blame, anxiety, shame, nightmares, fear, depression, flashbacks, guilt, rationalization, moodswings, numbness, promiscuity, loneliness, social anxiety, difficulty trusting oneself or others, difficulty concentrating. Being the victim of sexual assault may lead to the development of posttraumatic stress disorder, addiction, major depressive disorder or other psychopathologies.\nFamily and friends experience emotional scarring including a strong desire for revenge, a desire to \"fix' the problem and/or move on, and a rationalization that \"it wasn't that bad\".\n\nWhile sexual assault, including rape, can result in physical trauma, many people who experience sexual assault will not suffer any physical injury. Rape myths suggest that the stereotypical victim of sexual violence is a bruised and battered young woman. The central issue in many cases of rape or other sexual assault is whether or not both parties consented to the sexual activity or whether or not both parties had the capacity to do so. Thus, physical force resulting in visible physical injury is not always seen. This stereotype can be damaging because people who have experienced sexual assault but have no physical trauma may be less inclined to report to the authorities or to seek health care. However, women who experienced rape or physical violence by a partner were more likely than people who had not experienced this violence to report frequent headaches, chronic pain, difficulty sleeping, activity limitation, poor physical health, and poor mental health.\n\nDue to rape or sexual assault, or the threat of, there are many resulting impacts on income and commerce at the macro level. Each sexual assault (excluding child abuse) costs $5,100 in tangible losses (lost productivity, medical and mental health care, police/fire services, and property damage) plus $81,400 in lost quality of life. This issue has been addressed in the Supreme Court. In his dissenting opinion of the U.S. Supreme Court case \"U.S. v. Morrison\", Justice Souter explained that 75% of women never go to the movies alone at night and nearly 50% will not ride public transportation out of fear of rape or sexual assault. It also stated that less than 1% of victims collect damages and 50% of women lose their jobs or quit after the trauma. The court ruled in \"U.S. v. Morrison\" that Congress did not have the authority to enact part of the Violence Against Women Act because it did not have a direct impact on commerce. The Commerce Clause of Article I Section VII of the U.S. Constitution gives authority and jurisdiction to the Federal government in matters of interstate commerce. As a result, the victim was unable to sue her attacker in Federal Court.\n\nSexual assault also has adverse economic effects for survivors on the micro level. For instance, survivors of sexual assault often require time off from work and face increased rates of unemployment. Survivors of rape by an intimate partner lose an average of $69 per day due to unpaid time off from work. Sexual assault is also associated with numerous negative employment consequences, including unpaid time off, diminished work performance, job loss, and inability to work, all of which can lead to lower earnings for survivors.\n\nIn the emergency room, emergency contraceptive medications are offered to women raped by men because about 5% of such rapes result in pregnancy. Preventative medication against sexually transmitted infections are given to victims of all types of sexual assault (especially for the most common diseases like chlamydia, gonorhea, trichomoniasis and bacterial vaginosis) and a blood serum is collected to test for STIs (such as HIV, hepatitis B and syphilis). Any survivor with abrasions are immunized for tetanus if 5 years have elapsed since the last immunization. Short-term treatment with a benzodiazepine may help with acute anxiety and antidepressants may be helpful for symptoms of PTSD, depression and panic attacks. Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) has also been proposed as a psychiatric treatment for victims of sexual assault. With regard to long term psychological treatment, prolonged exposure therapy has been tested as a method of long-term PTSD treatment for victims of sexual abuse.\n\nAfter the assault, victims may become the target of slut-shaming to cyberbullying. In addition, their credibility may be challenged. During criminal proceedings, publication bans and rape shield laws may operate to protect victims from excessive public scrutiny. Negative social responses to victims’ disclosures of sexual assault have the potential to lead to posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms. Social isolation, following a sexual assault, can result in the victim experiencing a decrease in their self-esteem and likelihood of rejecting unwanted sexual advances in the future.\n\nSexual harassment and assault may be prevented by secondary school, college, workplace and public education programs. At least one program for fraternity men produced \"sustained behavioral change\". At least one study showed that creative campaigns with attention grabbing slogans and images that market consent are effective tools to raise awareness of campus sexual assault and related issues.\n\nSeveral research based rape prevention programs have been tested and verified through scientific studies. The rape prevention programs that have the strongest empirical data in the research literature include the following:\n\nThe Men's and Women's Programs, also known as the One in Four programs, were written by John Foubert. and is focused on increasing empathy toward rape survivors and motivating people to intervene as bystanders in sexual assault situations. Published data shows that high-risk persons who saw the Men's and Women's Program committed 40% fewer acts of sexually coercive behavior than those who didn’t. They also committed acts of sexual coercion that were 8 times less severe than a control group. Further research also shows that people who saw the Men's and Women's Program reported more efficacy in intervening and greater willingness to help as a bystander after seeing the program. Several additional studies are available documenting its efficacy.\n\nBringing in the Bystander was written by Victoria Banyard. Its focus is on who bystanders are, when they have helped, and how to intervene as a bystander in risky situations. The program includes a brief empathy induction component and a pledge to intervene in the future. Several studies show strong evidence of favorable outcomes including increased bystander efficacy, increased willingness to intervene as a bystander, and decreased rape myth acceptance.\n\nThe MVP: Mentors in Violence Prevention was written by Jackson Katz. This program focuses on discussing a male bystander who didn't intervene when woman was in danger. An emphasis is placed on encouraging men to be active bystanders rather than standing by when they notice abuse. The bulk of the presentation is on processing hypothetical scenarios. Outcomes reported in research literature include lower levels of sexism and increased belief that participants could prevent violence against women.\n\nThe Green Dot program was written by Dorothy Edwards. This program includes both motivational speeches and peer education focused on bystander intervention. Outcomes show that program participation is associated with reductions in rape myth acceptance and increased bystander intervention.\n\nThe city of Edmonton, Canada, initiated a public education campaign aimed at potential perpetrators. Posters in bar bathrooms and public transit centers reminded men that \"It's not sex when she's wasted\" and \"It's not sex when he changes his mind\". The campaign was so effective that it spread to other cities. \"The number of reported sexual assaults fell by 10 per cent last year in Vancouver, after the ads were featured around the city. It was the first time in several years that there was a drop in sexual assault activity.\"\n\nPresident Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden introduced in September 2014 a nationwide campaign against sexual assault entitled \"It's on us\". The campaign includes tips against sexual assault, as well as broad scale of private and public pledges to change to provoke a cultural shift, with a focus on student activism, to achieve awareness and prevention nationwide. UC Berkeley, NCAA and Viacom have publicly announced their partnership.\n\nA United Nations report compiled from government sources showed that more than 250,000 cases of rape or attempted rape were recorded by police annually. The reported data covered 65 countries.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Justice's National Crime Victimization Survey states that on average there are 237,868 victims (age 12 or older) of sexual assault and rape each year. According to RAINN, every 107 seconds someone in America is sexually assaulted. Sexual assault in the United States military also is a salient issue. Some researchers assert that the unique professional and socially-contained context of military service can heighten the destructive nature of sexual assault, and, therefore, improved support is needed for these victims.\n\nThe victims of sexual assault:\n\nAge\n\nBy gender\nA study from 1998 finds that,\n\nIt has been estimated that one in six American women has been or will be sexually assaulted during her life. Largely because of child and prison rape, approximately ten percent of reported rape victims are male.\n\nLGBT\n\nLGBT identifying individuals, with the exception of lesbian women, are more likely to experience sexual assault on college campuses than heterosexual individuals.\n\n\nEffects\n\nThe reporting of sexual assault:\n\nThe assailants:\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Justice 1997 Sex Offenses and Offenders Study,\n\nIn 2001,\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Justice 2005 National Crime Victimization Study\n\nCollege\nIn the United States, several studies since 1987 have indicated that one in four college women have experienced rape or attempted rape at some point in their lifetime. These studies are based on anonymous surveys of college women, not reports to the police, and the results are disputed. In one study, nearly two thirds of students reported knowing victims of rape and over half reported knowing perpetrators of sexual assault. One in ten reported knowing a victim of rape when alcohol was not involved and 22.6% reported knowing a victim of alcohol-facilitated rape. In the documentary \"The Hunting Ground\", the prevalence of sexual assault on college campuses is brought to attention. The schools poor judicial systems are scrutinized for not helping the victims and trying to keep these issues from the public.\n\nIn 2015, Texas A&M University professor Jason Lindo and his colleagues analyzed over two decades worth of FBI data, noting that reports of rape increased 15-57% around the times of major American Football games at Division 1 schools while attempting to find a link between campus rape and alcohol.\n\nA 2006 report from the U.S. Department of Justice titled \"The Sexual Victimization of College Women\" reports that 3.1% of undergraduates survived rape or attempted rape during a 6–7 month academic year with an additional 10.1% surviving rape prior to college and an additional 10.9% surviving attempted rape prior to college. With no overlap between these groups, these percentages add to 24.1%, or \"One in Four\".\n\nKoss, Gidycz & Wisniewski published a study in 1987 where they interviewed approximately 6,000 college students on 32 college campuses nationwide. They asked several questions covering a wide range of behaviors. From this study 15% of college women answered \"yes\" to questions about whether they experienced something that met the definition of rape. An additional 12% of women answered \"yes\" to questions about whether they experienced something that met the definition of attempted rape, thus the statistic One in Four.\n\nA point of contention lies in the leading nature of the questions in the study conducted by Koss, Gidycz & Wisniewski. Koss herself later admitted that the question that had garnered the largest \"rape\" result was flawed and ultimately rendered the study invalid. Most prominently the problem was that many respondents who had answered yes to several questions had their responses treated as having been raped. The issue being that these same respondents did not feel they had been victimized and never sought redress for grievances. The resultant change shows a prevalence of only 1 in 22 college women having been raped or attempted to be raped during their time at college.\n\nIn 1995, the CDC replicated part of this study, however they examined rape only, and did not look at attempted rape. They used a two-stage cluster sample design to produce a nationally representative sample of undergraduate college students aged greater than or equal to 18 years. The first-stage sampling frame contained 2,919 primary sampling units (PSUs), consisting of 2- and 4-year colleges and universities. The second sampling stage consisted of a random sample drawn from the primary sample unit frame enrolled in the 136 participating colleges and universities to increase the sample size to 4,609 undergraduate college students aged greater than or equal to 18 years old with a representative sample demographic matching the national demographic. Differential sampling rates of the PSU were used to ensure sufficient numbers of male and female, black and Hispanic students in the total sample population. After differential sample weighting, female students represented 55.5% of the sample; white students represented 72.8% of the sample, black students 10.3%, Hispanic students 7.1%, and 9.9% were other. It was determined that nationwide, 13.1% of college students reported that they had been forced to have sexual intercourse against their will during their lifetime. Female students were significantly more likely than male students to report they had ever been forced to have sexual intercourse; 20% of approximately 2500 females (55% of 4,609 samples) and 3.9% of males reported experiencing rape thus far in the course of their lifetime.\n\nOther studies concerning the annual incidence of rape, some studies conclude an occurrence of 5%. The National Survey of Children’s Exposure to Violence found that in the 2013–2014 academic year, 4.6% of girls ages 14 – 17 experienced sexual assault or sexual abuse. In another study, Mohler-Kuo, Dowdall, Koss & Weschler (2004) found in a study of approximately 25,000 college women nationwide that 4.7% experienced rape or attempted rape during a single academic year. This study did not measure lifetime incidence of rape or attempted rape. Similarly, Kilpatrick, Resnick, Ruggiero, Conoscenti, & McCauley (2007) found in a study of 2,000 college women nationwide that 5.2% experienced rape every year.\n\nChildren\n\nOther research has found that about 80,000 American children are sexually abused each year.\n\nWithin Australia, the term sexual assault is used to describe a variation of sexual offences. This is due to a variety of definitions and use of terminology to describe sexual offences within territories and states as each territory and state have their own legislation to define rape, attempted rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual assault, sexual penetration or intercourse without consent and sexual violence.\n\nIn the State of New South Wales, sexual assault is a statutory offence punishable under s 61I of the Crimes Act 1900. The term \"sexual assault\" is equivalent to \"rape\" in ordinary parlance, while all other assaults of a sexual nature are termed \"indecent assault\".\n\nTo be liable for punishment under the Crimes Act 1900, an offender must intend to commit an act of sexual intercourse as defined under s 61H(1) while having one of the states of knowledge of non-consent defined under s 61HA(3). But note that s 61HA(3) is an objective standard which only require the person has no reasonable grounds for believing the other person is consenting. The maximum penalty for sexual assault is 14 years imprisonment.\n\nAggravated sexual assault is sexual intercourse with another person without the consent of the other person and in circumstances of aggravation. The maximum penalty is imprisonment for 20 years under s 61J of the Crimes Act.\n\nIn the state of Victoria, rape is punishable under s 38 of the Crimes Act 1958, with a maximum penalty of 25 years imprisonment.\n\nIn the state of South Australia, rape is punishable under s 48 of the Criminal Law Consolidation Act 1935 (SA) with a maximum term of life imprisonment.\n\nIn the state of Western Australia, sexual penetration is punishable under s 325 the Criminal Code Act 1913 with a maximum sentence of 14 years imprisonment.\n\nIn the Northern Territory, offences of sexual intercourse and gross indecency without consent are punishable under s 192 of the Criminal Code Act 1983 and punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.\n\nIn Queensland, rape and sexual assault are punishable under s 349, Chapter 32 of the Criminal Code Act 1899 with a maximum penalty of life imprisonment.\n\nIn Tasmania, rape is punishable under s 185 of the Criminal Code Act 1924 with a maximum punishment of 21 years under s389 of the Criminal Code Act 1924.\n\nIn the Australian Capital Territory, sexual assault is punishable under Part 3 of the Crimes Act 1900 with a maximum punishment of 17 years.\n\nSexual assault is considered a gendered crime which results in 85% of sexual assaults never coming to the attention of the criminal justice system according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. This is due to low reporting rates, treatment of victims and distrust of the criminal justice system, difficulty in obtaining evidence and the belief in sexual assault myths.\n\nHowever, once a person is charged, the public prosecutor will decide whether the case will proceed to trial based on whether there is sufficient evidence and whether a case is in the public interest. Once the matter has reached trial, the matter will generally be heard in the District Court. This is because sexually violent crimes are mostly categorised as indictable offences (serious offences), as opposed to summary offences (minor offences). Sexual offences can also be heard in the Supreme Court, but more generally if the matter is being heard as an appeal.\n\nOnce the matter is being heard, the prosecution must provide evidence which proves “beyond reasonable doubt” that the offence was committed by the defendant. The standard of proof is vital in checking the power of the State. While as previously stated that each jurisdiction (State and Territory) has its own sexual offence legislation, there are many common elements to any criminal offence that advise on how the offence is defined and what must be proven by the prosecution in order to find the defendant guilty. These elements are known as Actus Reus which comprises the physical element (see Ryan v Regina [1967]) and the Mens Rea which comprises the mental element (see He Kaw Teh (1985)).\n\nNotable sexual assault cases which have resulted in convictions are Regina v Bilal Skaf [2005] and Regina v Mohommed Skaf [2005] which were highly visible in New South Wales within the media the 2000s. These cases were closely watched by the media and led to legislative changes such as the passing of the Crimes Amendment (Aggravated Sexual Assault in Company) Act 2001 No 62 which dramatically increased the sentences for ‘gang rapists’ by creating a new category of crime known as Aggravated Sexual Assault in Company. Changes were also made to the Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Act 1999. This change is known as the Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Amendment (Victim Impact Statements) Act 2004 No 3 which expands the category of offences in respect of which a Local Court may receive and consider Victim Impact Statements to include some indictable offences which are usually dealt with summarily.\n\nSexual assault is defined as sexual contact with another person without that other person's consent. Consent is defined in section 273.1(1) as \"the voluntary agreement of the complainant to engage in the sexual activity in question\".\n\nSection 265 of the Criminal Code defines the offences of assault and sexual assault.\n\nSection 271 criminalizes \"Sexual assault\", section 272 criminalizes \"Sexual assault with a weapon, threats to a third party or causing bodily harm\" and section 273 criminalizes \"Aggravated sexual assault\".\n\nThe absence of consent defines the crime of sexual assault. Section 273.1 (1) defines consent, section 273.1 (2) outlines certain circumstances where \"no consent\" is obtained, while section 273.1 (3) states that subsection (2) \"does not limit\" the circumstances where \"no consent\" is obtained (i.e. subsection (2) describes \"some\" circumstances which deem the act to be non-consensual, but other circumstances, not described in this section, can also deem the act as having been committed without consent). \"No consent\" to sexual assault is also subject to Section 265 (3), which also outlines several situations where the act is deemed non-consensual. In 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada in \"R. v. J.A.\" interpreted the provisions below to find that a person must have an active mind during the sexual activity in order to consent, and that they cannot give consent in advance.\n\n\n\"273.1\" (1) Subject to subsection (2) and subsection 265(3), “consent” means, for the purposes of sections 271, 272 and 273, \"the voluntary agreement of the complainant to engage in the sexual activity in question\".\n\n\"Where no consent obtained\"\n\n(2) No consent is obtained, for the purposes of sections 271, 272 and 273, where\n(a) the agreement is expressed by the words or conduct of a person other than the complainant;\n(b) the complainant is incapable of consenting to the activity;\n(c) the accused induces the complainant to engage in the activity by abusing a position of trust, power or authority;\n(d) the complainant expresses, by words or conduct, a lack of agreement to engage in the activity; or\n(e) the complainant, having consented to engage in sexual activity, expresses, by words or conduct, a lack of agreement to continue to engage in the activity.\n\n\"Subsection (2) not limiting\"\n\n(3) Nothing in subsection (2) shall be construed as limiting the circumstances in which no consent is obtained.\n\n\n\"Consent\"\n\n(3) For the purposes of this section, no consent is obtained where the complainant submits or does not resist by reason of\n(a) the application of force to the complainant or to a person other than the complainant;\n(b) threats or fear of the application of force to the complainant or to a person other than the complainant;\n(c) fraud; or\n(d) the exercise of authority.\n\nIn accordance with 265 (4) an accused may use the defence that he or she believed that the complainant consented, but such a defence may be used only when \"a judge, if satisfied that there is sufficient evidence and that, if believed by the jury, the evidence would constitute a defence, shall instruct the jury when reviewing all the evidence relating to the determination of the honesty of the accused's belief, to consider the presence or absence of reasonable grounds for that belief\"; furthermore according to section 273.2(b) the accused must show that he or she took reasonable steps in order to ascertain the complainant's consent, also 273.2(a) states that if the accused's belief steams from self-induced intoxication, or recklessness or wilful blindness than such belief is not a defence.\n\n\"Accused’s belief as to consent\"\n\n(4) Where an accused alleges that he or she believed that the complainant consented to the conduct that is the subject-matter of the charge, a judge, if satisfied that there is sufficient evidence and that, if believed by the jury, the evidence would constitute a defence, shall instruct the jury, when reviewing all the evidence relating to the determination of the honesty of the accused’s belief, to consider the presence or absence of reasonable grounds for that belief.\n\n\n273.2 It is not a defence to a charge under section 271, 272 or 273 that the accused believed that the complainant consented to the activity that forms the subject-matter of the charge, where\n(a) the accused’s belief arose from the accused’s\n\n(i) self-induced intoxication, or\n\n(ii) recklessness or wilful blindness; or\n(b) the accused did not take reasonable steps, in the circumstances known to the accused at the time, to ascertain that the complainant was consenting.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Newfoundland and Labrador jury ruled in favour of a defense that added to the interpretation of the consent laws. The defenses stated and the Jury was reminded by Justice Valerie Marshall:\n\n\nThe coined phrase regarding this defense was \"Moral vs. legal consent\"\n\nBefore 1997, the definition of rape was: \"\"Whoever compels a woman to have extramarital intercourse with him, or with a third person, by force or the threat of present danger to life or limb, shall be punished by not less than two years’ imprisonment\".\"\n\nIn 1997, a broader definition was adopted with the 13th criminal amendment, section 177–179, which deals with sexual abuse. Rape is generally reported to the police, although it is also allowed to be reported to the prosecutor or District Court.\n\nThe Strafgesetzbuch reads:\n\n\nSubsections (3), (4) and (5) provide additional stipulations on sentencing depending on aggravating or mitigating circumstances.\n\nSection 178 provides that \"\"If the offender through sexual assault or rape (section 177) causes the death of the victim at least by gross negligence the penalty shall be imprisonment for life or not less than ten years\".\"\n\nAs in many other jurisdictions, the term sexual assault is generally used to describe non-penetrative sexual offences. Section 2 of the Criminal Law (Rape) Act of 1981 states that a man has committed rape if he has sexual intercourse with a woman who at the time of the intercourse does not consent to it, and at that time he knows that she does not consent to the intercourse or he is reckless as to whether she does or does not consent to it. Under Section 4 of the Criminal Law (Rape Amendment) Act of 1990, rape means a sexual assault that includes penetration (however slight) of the anus or mouth by the penis or penetration (however slight) of the vagina by any object held or manipulated by another person. The maximum penalty for rape in Ireland is imprisonment for life.\n\nThe Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act created the offence of sexual assault, replacing a common-law offence of indecent assault. \"Sexual assault\" is defined as the unlawful and intentional sexual violation of another person without their consent. The Act's definition of \"sexual violation\" incorporates a number of sexual acts, including any genital contact that does not amount to penetration as well as any contact with the mouth designed to cause sexual arousal. Non-consensual acts that involve actual penetration are rape rather than sexual assault.\n\nUnlawfully and intentionally inspiring the belief in another person that they will be sexually violated also amounts to sexual assault. The Act also created the offences of \"compelled sexual assault\", when a person forces a second person to commit an act of sexual violation with a third person; and \"compelled self-sexual assault\", when a person forces another person to masturbate or commit various other sexual acts on theirself.\n\nSexual assault is a statutory offence in England and Wales. It is created by section 3 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 which defines \"sexual assault\" as when a person (A)\n\nWhether a belief is reasonable is to be determined having regard to all the circumstances, including any steps A has taken to ascertain whether B consents.\n\nSections 75 and 76 apply to an offence under this section.\n\nA person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—\n\nSection 74 of the Sexual Offenses Act explains that \"a person consents if he agrees by choice and has the freedom and capacity to make that choice\".\n\nSection 75 clarifies what consent means\n\n75 Evidential presumptions about consent\n\n(1)If in proceedings for an offence to which this section applies it is proved—\n(a)that the defendant did the relevant act,\n(b)that any of the circumstances specified in subsection (2) existed, and\n(c)that the defendant knew that those circumstances existed, the complainant is to be taken not to have consented to the relevant act unless sufficient evidence is adduced to raise an issue as to whether he consented, and the defendant is to be taken not to have reasonably believed that the complainant consented unless sufficient evidence is adduced to raise an issue as to whether he reasonably believed it.\n\n(2)The circumstances are that—\n(a)any person was, at the time of the relevant act or immediately before it began, using violence against the complainant or causing the complainant to fear that immediate violence would be used against him;\n(b)any person was, at the time of the relevant act or immediately before it began, causing the complainant to fear that violence was being used, or that immediate violence would be used, against another person;\n(c)the complainant was, and the defendant was not, unlawfully detained at the time of the relevant act;\n(d)the complainant was asleep or otherwise unconscious at the time of the relevant act;\n(e)because of the complainant’s physical disability, the complainant would not have been able at the time of the relevant act to communicate to the defendant whether the complainant consented;\n(f)any person had administered to or caused to be taken by the complainant, without the complainant’s consent, a substance which, having regard to when it was administered or taken, was capable of causing or enabling the complainant to be stupefied or overpowered at the time of the relevant act.\n\n(3)In subsection (2)(a) and (b), the reference to the time immediately before the relevant act began is, in the case of an act which is one of a continuous series of sexual activities, a reference to the time immediately before the first sexual activity began.\n\nSexual assault is a statutory offence. It is created by article 7 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008. Sexual assault is defined as follows:\nSexual assault is a statutory offence. It is created by section 3 of the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009.\nSexual assault is defined as follows:\n\nThe United States Department of Justice defines sexual assault as \"any type of sexual contact or behavior that occurs without the explicit consent of the recipient. Falling under the definition of sexual assault are sexual activities as forced sexual intercourse, forcible sodomy, child molestation, incest, fondling, and attempted rape.\"\n\nEvery U.S. state has its own code of laws, and thus the definition of conduct that constitutes a crime, including a sexual assault, may vary to some degree by state. Some states may refer to sexual assault as \"sexual battery\" or \"criminal sexual conduct\".\n\nThe Texas Penal Code, Sec. 22.011(a) defines sexual assault as\n"}
{"id": "56739018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56739018", "title": "Sharp power", "text": "Sharp power\n\nSharp power is the use of manipulative diplomatic policies by one country to influence and undermine the political system of a target country. Sharp power can include attempts by one country to manipulate and manage information about itself in the news media and educational systems of another country, for the purpose of misleading or dividing public opinion in a target country, or for masking or diverting attention away from negative information about itself. \n\nSharp power is distinguished from soft power, which are attractive policies that project a positive impression of one country and promote greater understanding with another country, ultimately to influence the decisions of another country through persuasion. Soft power policies can include student exchanges and the sponsoring of cultural and sporting events. Sharp power is also distinct from hard power, which are coercive policies by one country to compel another country into taking action or changing its decisions. Hard power can include military force, economic sanctions, and diplomatic threats. \n\nThe term \"sharp power\" was coined in November of 2017 by the National Endowment for Democracy, and published in an article in Foreign Affairs Magazine, to describe aggressive and subversive policies employed by authoritarian governments as a projection of state power in democratic countries, policies that cannot be described as either hard power or soft power. The NED article specifically names the Russian state-funded RT News Network and the Chinese state-sponsored Confucius Institute educational partnerships as examples of sharp power. According NED, autocratic states \"are not necessarily seeking to 'win hearts and minds,' the common frame of reference for soft power efforts, but they are surely seeking to manipulate their target audiences by distorting the information that reaches them.\" \n\nSince 2018, the term \"sharp power\" has been used in news articles, scholarly discussions, and Congressional hearings. Even representatives of the Chinese Communist Party have used the term, dismissing Western claims that their country has engaged in sharp power practices. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3066287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3066287", "title": "Silent service code", "text": "Silent service code\n\nThe silent service code is a way for a diner to \"talk\" to servers during a meal without saying a word, mainly to tell them that the diner is finished. This will prevent any embarrassing situations where the server would take a meal prematurely.\n\nTo tell a server you have finished place your napkin to the left of your plate, and place all your utensils together in a \"4-o'clock\" position on your plate.\n\nUtensils crossed on a plate signify that a diner is still eating.\n\nIf you must leave during the meal, you should place the napkin on your chair to avoid any confusion.\n\nThe code is almost always taught during business dining etiquette classes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4203956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4203956", "title": "Social defence", "text": "Social defence\n\nThe term \"social defence\" is used to describe non-military action by a society or social group, particularly in a context of a sustained campaign against outside attack or dictatorial rule – or preparations for such a campaign in the event of external attack or usurpation. There are various near-synonyms, including \"non-violent defence\", \"civilian defence\", \"civilian-based defence\", and \"defence by civil resistance\". Whatever term is used, this approach involves preparations for and use of a range of actions – which can be variously called nonviolent resistance and civil resistance – for national defence against invasion, coup d'état and other threats.\n\nWritings about this concept include works by Theodor Ebert (Germany), Brian Martin (Australia), Adam Roberts (UK), Gene Sharp (US), Heinz Vetschera (Austria), and others.\n\nA number of studies have considered the possible application to particular countries of the idea of a defence policy based on civil resistance. In the United Kingdom, in 1959 Commander Sir Stephen King-Hall supported unilateral nuclear disarmament by Britain, and proposed an alternative containing some reliance on conventional force plus \"a defence system of non-violence against violence\". In 1983 an independent non-governmental body in the UK, the Alternative Defence Commission, examined the idea thoroughly and saw possibilities in it, but came out in favour of NATO countries adopting a posture of \"defensive deterrence\" – i.e. deterrence based on non-nuclear weapons and strategies, including an element of military defence in depth. Regarding Sweden, Adam Roberts did an officially-commissioned study in 1972 which concluded: \"Civil resistance would be unlikely to be effective in replacing some of the functions of the Swedish armed forces – for example the defence of sparsely populated parts of the country. However, it might be the best means of resisting alien control in certain types of circumstance (e.g. total occupation by a super-power, attack by a liberal democratic state, occupation with the aim of economic exploitation; or occupation of urban and highly developed areas).\" Since the end of the Cold War the idea of defence by civil resistance has been pursued in a number of countries, including the Baltic states. However, with the partial and limited exception of Sweden, it has generally not attracted support from major political parties, and it has not been adopted as a major plank in the security policy of any country. In a 2009 survey of various studies of the viability of defence by civil resistance, Adam Roberts concludes by raising a question, not about the utility of civil resistance generally, but about its capacity to be a complete substitute for military force.\n\n\"Social defence\" as defined and summarized here is distinct from certain other usages of this term. For example, within the framework of its system of Total Defence, the Singapore government's civil defence/national security policy uses the term \"social defence\" as a synonym for social inclusion policies.\n\n"}
{"id": "33210860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33210860", "title": "Somatocentrism", "text": "Somatocentrism\n\nSomatocentrism is a cultural value system in which biological determinism is the basis for social organization. The phenotypical variation of an individual in this system determines the individual’s social identity and social relations, although it doesn’t necessarily denote their social position. \n\nThe term ‘somatocentric’ is derived from \nIn this system, the physical body of an individual is heavily emphasized, and valued in determining the social identity of the individual.\n\nA necessary precondition for individuals in a somatocentric system is the privileging of sight over other senses in perceiving reality. Using vision as the primary sense for constructing reality may cause one to miss complex and hidden nuances of existence, limiting perception. A comparison of sight and hearing shows that sight is mono-directional and exclusive, while sound is proximate, fluid, and inclusive.\n\nPrivileging sight over other senses facilitates a type of self-image that focus on the individual's body, as vision is the primary means to delineate phenotypical difference. Identifying these differences this way may lead to attributing social value to individuals who look a certain way.\n\nBody image is a subjective picture of one’s own physical appearance established both by self-awareness and by noting the reactions of others. Preoccupation with body image and the physical appearance of one’s body denotes how much value one ascribes to their phenotypical traits. Body image may be valued highly, and more often than not, dissatisfaction with one’s own body image perverts that value with other social effects.\n\nPeople who suffer from Body Dysmorphic Disorder (or BDD) fixate on a defect in their appearance. People with BDD are affected daily with stress and anxiety, which may impair their role in the social and occupational areas of their life. The amount of social value ascribed to the importance of body image affects the level of stress someone suffering from BDD feels. \nStudies show that in some cultures, people who are relatively taller than others get relatively better treatment by their peers. \n\nA study conducted in Australia found that tall people earn higher wages than their equally competent shorter co-workers. A study conducted in Southampton of ninety two normal teens who were shorter than their peers revealed that the shorter boys were twice as likely to be bullied than their average height controls matched by sex and age. The findings of these studies reveal a correlation between height and social value, indicating somatocentric issues.\n\nThe American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists define ‘short stature’ as being two standard deviations below the average for a particular age and sex; in America, a male shorter than 5’7’’ and a female shorter than 5’2’’ are both short statured. Groups have been formed by people who feel short, such as The National Organization of Short Statured Adults (NOSSA). One of the primary functions of this group is to inform its members of the sociological and psychological aspects of being short statured as research continues.\n\nRacism is defined by a belief that race is the primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial differences produce an inherent superiority of a particular race. Racial differences are most easily compared by the phenotypical differences between peoples of a different race, i.e. skin tone, facial features, hair color, and body type. To place social value on any trait, whether positive or negative, is a product of somatocentric values.\n\nA somatocentric culture may create social constructs based on the interpretation of biological differences between its individuals. The concept of ‘gender’ is an example of a construct that may arise from somatocentricity. Sex and gender are loosely related as they both deal with the male and the female; however, one considers empirical distinction, while the other considers social distinction.\n\nA sex refers to biological distinctions between males and females. Certain biological structures are unique to either females or males; in humans, the ovary being unique to the former, the prostate gland being unique to the latter. Biological differences between males and females govern the action of reproduction in any species that repopulates via sexual reproduction, and in some cases, influence the action of child-rearing.\n\nBy contrast, gender roles, gender identities, and the concepts of masculine and feminine are all social constructs which may be extrapolated from phenotypical differences between men and women.\n\nFor example, in Western culture, women may fill domestic social roles, with an emphasis on childcare. Women are also unique members of a population that are outfitted with breasts which help feed infants, while men lack these organs. While it is logical to assert that women may be biologically better suited for postnatal care of an infant than men, it does not follow from the ability to breast-feed that women are better suited to domestic social roles than men.\n\nMasculinity and femininity are also engendered concepts that may draw from phenotypical difference between male and female. A person who exhibits physical strength may be deemed masculine, while a person who exhibits gentleness may be deemed feminine. Attributing significance to the phenotypical difference between the size or shape of men and women creates a binary between the two that allows the casual observer to presume social significance of a person in terms of this arbitrary scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "20896480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20896480", "title": "Stefan Molyneux", "text": "Stefan Molyneux\n\nStefan Basil Molyneux (; born September 24, 1966) is a Canadian podcaster and YouTuber. Molyneux, a self-published author, usually speaks on the topics of anarcho-capitalism, politics, relationships, race and intelligence, multiculturalism, libertarianism, anti-feminism, and familial relationships.\n\nA supporter of Donald Trump's presidential campaign, he has been described as alt-right by \"Politico\" and \"The Washington Post\", and far-right and right-wing by CNN. The \"Freedomain Radio\" internet community which he leads has been described as a cult. Molyneux formerly worked in the software industry.\n\nMolyneux was born in Ireland and raised mainly in London before moving to Canada at age 11. Molyneux attended the Glendon College of York University, where he was an actor at Theatre Glendon and a member of the Debating Society. He then attended the National Theatre School of Canada in Montreal. In 1991, Molyneux received a B.A. in History from McGill University, where he was active in the McGill Debating Union. He then went on to receive an M.A. in History from University of Toronto in 1993.\n\nIn early 1995, Molyneux and his brother Hugh founded Caribou Systems Corporation, a Toronto-based provider of environmental database software. The company was sold in 2000.\n\nIn 2005, Molyneux began a podcast called \"Freedomain Radio\" (\"FDR\"). He uses the same name for the website on which he distributes his own writings, hosts podcast archives, and provides an Internet forum for \"FDR\" listeners. Molyneux also produces videos and commentary on current events, and he presents a weekly call-in show on which listeners can ask questions or discuss personal issues. Molyneux funds his efforts by soliciting direct payment from listeners and viewers.\n\nIn 2017, Molyneux interviewed James Damore, the Google employee who was fired after writing the Google's Ideological Echo Chamber memo.\n\nIn July 2018, Molyneux and Canadian internet personality Lauren Southern toured the Australian cities of Sydney and Melbourne. NITV quotes Simon Copland, an SBS freelance writer, who thinks that Molyneux disparaged pre-colonisation Australian Aboriginal culture, calling it \"very violent\", and downplayed massacres perpetrated against Aborigines, saying that the European takeover of Australia had been less violent than other such takeovers, and that the settlers \"were trying to stop infanticide and mass rape\". Molyneux and Southern subsequently traveled to New Zealand for their speaking engagement at Auckland's Powerstation theatre. The event was cancelled at the last minute when the Powerstation's owner rescinded the booking, citing opposition from local groups and the offensive content of their speech.\n\nMolyneaux has frequently hosted prominent white supremacists on his podcast, such as Peter Brimelow (founder of the white nationalist website VDare) and Jared Taylor (founder of the white supremacist magazine American Renaissance).\n\nMolyneux was a panelist at a 2014 Detroit conference held by the men's rights movement and manosphere organization, A Voice for Men. According to Jessica Roy of \"Time\" magazine, Molyneux argued that violence in the world is the result of how women treat their children, and that \"If we could just get people to be nice to their babies for five years straight, that would be it for war, drug abuse, addiction, promiscuity, sexually transmitted diseases, ... Almost all would be completely eliminated, because they all arise from dysfunctional early childhood experiences, which are all run by women.\"\n\nMolyneux has been described as a part of the \"alt-right\" by \"Politico\", \"Metro\", \"NY Magazine,\" \"Vanity Fair,\" and \"CBS,\" and has been described as \"one of the alt-right's biggest YouTube stars\" by \"Washington Post\" columnist J. J. McCullough. \"Business Insider\" and BuzzFeed have characterized Molyneux as far-right. In a 2016 YouTube video, Molyneux has denied that he identifies with the alt-right movement. Data & Society, a research institute, described Molyneux as \"a Canadian talk show host who promotes scientific racism\".\n\nMolyneux refers to the family that people are born into as their \"family of origin\" or \"FOO\". Molyneux suggests that family of origin relationships may not necessarily be desirable, and in some circumstances may even be detrimental, and thus, for those individuals having suffered abusive childhood relationships, it would be advantageous for them to sever such involuntary relationships as adults, or \"deFOO\". In this way, he views all adult relationships as being voluntary and discretionary rather than obligatory. According to a 2008 article in \"The Guardian\", both Molyneux and his wife have \"deFOOed\".\n\nMolyneux theorizes that the pursuit of virtue in our personal lives could bring about a stateless society that abhors the initiation of force (see non-aggression principle). In addition, the free market (see anarcho-capitalism), polycentric legal systems and private \"dispute resolution organizations\" (DROs) could be empowered to find new and more peaceful ways of adjudicating common law infractions and contractual disputes.\n\nIn 2012, libertarian philosopher David Gordon gave a critical examination of Molyneux's 2007 \"Universally Preferable Behaviour: A Rational Proof for Secular Ethics\" in \"The Mises Review\", stating, \"He fails, and fails miserably. His arguments are often preposterously bad.\" Gordon would reply again to Molyneux's own response to the criticisms.\n\nMolyneux believes in the White genocide conspiracy theory. In a 2018 interview with Lauren Southern about violence against white farmers in South Africa, he stated that the media and NGOs were under-reporting the subject because they \"don’t want to scare the whites in the west with what happens when whites become a minority in a highly aggressive and tribalised world\".\n\nAfter portrait painter Kehinde Wiley was chosen to paint Barack Obama's presidential portrait, Molyneux called Wiley a \"white genocide fetish artist\", noting that in 2012 Wiley had created two paintings of black women holding up the severed heads of white women, which Wiley later referred to as \"sort of a play on the 'kill whitey' thing\".\n\nAccording to Steven Hassan, a mental health counselor with experience on cults, \"Partly what's going on with the people on the Internet who are indoctrinated, they spend lots of hours on the computer. Videos can have them up all night for several nights in a row. Molyneux knows how to talk like he knows what he's talking about, despite very little academic research. He cites this and cites that, and presents it as the whole truth. It dismantles people's sense of self and replaces it with his sense of confidence about how to fix the world.\"\n\nIn 2009, Tu Thanh Ha wrote that Molyneux was called the leader of a \"therapy cult\" following \"Freedomain Radio (FDR)\" community member Tom Bell breaking off all contact with his family. In April 2008, Bell had called in to the show asking about his veganism and his feeling of disgust towards people that eat meat. Molyneux suggested that this disgust could have come from witnessing an authority figure who was cruel to animals. Bell responded by describing memories of his father being verbally and physically cruel to the family cat, causing him to feel intimidated by the father, and then described his emotional detachment toward his mother and the rest of his family.\n\nThe following month, Bell left a note stating he no longer wanted contact and left home. It was reported that, of the estimated 50,000 users of the website, about 20 (0.04%) \"FDR\" members had also \"deFOOed\" (disassociate from family of origin), and that many parents chose not to speak to the media in an effort to avoid alienating their children further. A representative of the British Cult Information Centre said they were following \"FDR\", and noted that one sign of cults was that they cut people off from their families. Molyneux responded by saying, \"If I advised a wife to leave an abusive husband, there would not be articles about how I am a cult leader.\"\n\nMolyneux and FOO were subjects of an investigative documentary by Channel 5 in the United Kingdom, which aired on August 20, 2015.\n\nMolyneux and \"deFOOing\" were one of three subjects featured on the February 18, 2016 episode of the documentary series \"Dark Net\". The episode calls \"Freedomain Radio\" a cult.\n\n"}
{"id": "17996959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17996959", "title": "Sustainable consumption", "text": "Sustainable consumption\n\nAs a compliment to analyses of production and its processes, Sustainable Consumption (SC) is the study of resource and energy use (domestic or otherwise). As the term sustainability would imply, those who study SC seek to apply the concept of “continuance”—the capacity to meet both present and future human generational needs. SC, then, would also include analyses of efficiency, infrastructure, and waste, as well as access to basic services, green and decent jobs and a better quality of life for all. It shares a number of common features with and is closely linked to the terms sustainable production and sustainable development. Sustainable consumption as part of sustainable development is a prerequisite in the worldwide struggle against sustainability challenges such as climate change, resource depletion, famines or environmental pollution.\n\nSustainable development as well as sustainable consumption rely on certain premises such as:\n\n\nThe definition proposed by the 1994 Oslo Symposium on Sustainable Consumption defines it as \"the use of services and related products which respond to basic needs and bring a better quality of life while minimizing the use of natural resources and toxic materials as well as emissions of waste and pollutants over the life cycle of the service or product so as not to jeopardize the needs of future generations.\"\n\nIn order to achieve sustainable consumption, two developments have to take place: it requires both an increase in the efficiency of consumption as well as a change in consumption patterns and reductions in consumption levels in industrialized countries as well as rich social classes in developing countries which have also a large ecological footprint and give examples for increasing middle classes in developing countries. The first prerequisite is not sufficient on its own and can be named weak sustainable consumption. Here, technological improvements and eco-efficiency support a necessary reduction in resource consumption. Once this aim has been met, the second prerequisite, the change in patterns and reduction of levels of consumption is indispensable. Strong sustainable consumption approaches also pay attention to the social dimension of well-being and assess the need for changes based on a risk-averse perspective. In order to achieve what can be termed strong sustainable consumption, changes in infrastructures as well as the choices customers have are required. In the political arena, weak sustainable consumption has been discussed whereas strong sustainable consumption is missing from all debates.\n\nThe so-called attitude-behaviour or values-action gap describes a significant obstacle to changes in individual customer behavior. Many consumers are well aware of the importance of their consumption choices and care about environmental issues, however, most of them do not translate their concerns into their consumption patterns as the purchase-decision making process is highly complicated and relies on e.g. social, political and psychological factors. Young et al. identified a lack of time for research, high prices, a lack of information and the cognitive effort needed as the main barriers when it comes to green consumption choices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39284743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39284743", "title": "The Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale", "text": "The Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale\n\nThe Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale (PIWBS) is a self-report inventory with a Likert scale format, designed to assess five distinct dimensions of identity and subjective well-being among Pacific populations in New Zealand:\n\nThe PIWBS was developed by Sam Manuela, a doctoral candidate at The University of Auckland. The scale aims to provide a culturally sensitive, valid and reliable self-report inventory of Pacific identity and subjective well-being which aids the understanding and predicting of Pacific outcomes. The measure contributes to Pacific studies by providing a quantitative, within-cultural research tool for Pacific peoples from a Pacific perspective. The PIWBS is associated with the New Zealand Attitudes and Values Study.\n\nThe dimensions, Group Membership Evaluation, Pacific Connectedness and Belonging, and Religious Centrality and Embeddness all relate to identity. Answers to questions relating to identity are rated on a Likert scale ranging from 1 to 7 (1 = strongly disagree and 7 = strongly agree). The dimensions, Perceived Familial Wellbeing and Perceived Societal Wellbeing both relate to wellbeing. Answers to questions relating to wellbeing are rated on a Likert scale ranging from 1 to 7 (1 = completely dissatisfied and 7 = completely satisfied).\n\nThis factor reflects subjective evaluations of membership within the Pacific group. Positive group evaluations are shown through pride in one's ethnic identity and culture, and represent a secure ethnic identity. This factor includes an evaluation of positive effect brought about by Pacific group membership, and an evaluation of the extent to which one's Pacific identity is seen as a central and defining aspect of self-concept. High scores on this factor would indicate that positive/worthwhile feelings are derived from Pacific identification, and that affiliation with a Pacific group is seen as a desirable aspect of self-concept and is central to identity.\n\n\nThis factor is a measure of an individual's sense of belonging and connectedness with Pacific others and groups. These feelings derive from shared experiences and commonalities and are particularly apparent among youth. This factor, which assesses the extent to which the individual believes the self to be an integral part of a Pacific group, is made up of two distinct dimensions. The first dimension concerns perceived connections/relationships with others, and the second dimension concerns an individual's subjective sense of belonging at a broader level. High scores on this factor would indicate that the individual feels similar to Pacific others, and perceives themselves to be an integral member of the wider, general group, and have a feeling of belonging.\n\n\nThis factor assesses the individual's evaluation of the extent to which religion is central to their identity as Pacific, and the extent to which they believe religion to be entwined with Pacific culture. Religion is an important aspect of Pacific identity, having a huge influence on many Pacific communities by providing social connections and support, and fulfilling cultural and religious needs. This factor focuses on Christianity-based religions which are the most common in Pacific societies. High scores on this factor would indicate that the individual feels that Christianity-based religion is a central aspect of self-identity, and is strongly linked to their Pacific culture.\n\n\nThis factor assesses the individual's subjective satisfaction with their family, and the subjective well-being of and within their family. Family offers physical, mental, cultural, spiritual and social nurturance, and is an integral aspect of Pacific self-concept, closely tied to wellbeing. This factor assesses a variety of Pacific family values including respect, communication, relationships and happiness. High scores in this factor would indicate that the individual feels a strong sense of support from their family, and that the individual perceives their family as a whole to have a high level of wellbeing.\n\n\nThis factor reflects the individual's satisfaction with society and the support it offers. Satisfaction with society has a strong influence on the subjective wellbeing of Pacific people. Perceived support from society is assessed on various levels, from the local community level to the national government level and responses indicate how supported and integrated the Pacific individual feels in New Zealand. High scores on this factor would indicate that the individual feels satisfied, supported and accepted by all levels of New Zealand society.\n\n\nThe Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale was developed and validated using exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA). The initial pool of 125 questions was developed based on previous Pacific research, a variety of other wellbeing and identity scales, discussions with Pacific peoples and the Multi-dimensional Model of Maori Identity and Cultural Engagement. \n\nExploratory factor analysis (EFA) was conducted to organise the 125 possible questions into groups (factors) based on similarity of topic. Individual items that did not fit a group well or that related to more than one group were not used. Thirty-one questions were retained which were found to measure the five distinct, yet interconnected factors of Pacific identity and wellbeing. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was later used to confirm the structure of the PIWBS. All 31 items were found to be strongly related to the predicted factors. \nCronbach's alpha (internal reliability) measures the extent to which all the questions in a section measure the same construct/factor consistently. The five factors of the PIWBS showed excellent internal reliability, with Cronbach's alphas all above α = 0.85. The minimum accepted standard of internal reliability is α = 0.70. \n\nThe PIWBS has been used in several studies to investigate the low levels of subjective well-being found among Pacific peoples who identify with multiple ethnic groups. Differences were found in levels of subjective well-being depending on the number of ethnic groups the individual associated with. For example, people who identified only as Pacific had higher levels of wellbeing than people who identified as both Pacific and non-Pacific (e.g. New Zealand European). However, there were no differences in wellbeing levels between people who identified as only Pacific, and people who identified with two Pacific groups (e.g. Tongan and Samoan). This suggests that lower wellbeing only occurred when the two ethnic groups associated with, were very different (e.g. Pacific and New Zealand European).\n\nIdentity Tension Effect: Associating with both a Pacific group and a majority ethnic group (e.g. New Zealand European) may lead to negative feelings about Pacific aspects of identity. This is because people who identify with multiple ethnic groups tend to be more likely to internalise negative stereotypes about Pacific people held by the majority. This can lead to identity confusion and lowered self-esteem. \n\nPopulation projections suggest that the Pacific community will grow by 60% by 2026. Approximately one third of Pacific people identify as both Pacific and non-Pacific. This means that a growing percentage of the New Zealand population may be at risk of a number of negative outcomes. These outcomes include both lower self-esteem, as well as decreased feelings of support from family. Through applied research interventions such as challenging negative stereotypes and promoting positive stereotypes about Pacific peoples, it may be possible to address this problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "934357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934357", "title": "Vallespir", "text": "Vallespir\n\nVallespir () is a historical Catalan comarca of Northern Catalonia, part of the French department of Pyrénées-Orientales. The capital of the comarca is Ceret, and it borders Conflent, Rosselló, Alt Empordà, Garrotxa and Ripollès. It is in the Tech River valley. The main towns in the Vallespir are Ceret, Amelie Les Bains, Arles Sur Tech and Prats De Mollo La Preste\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "3539451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3539451", "title": "Van der Corput sequence", "text": "Van der Corput sequence\n\nA van der Corput sequence is an example of the simplest one-dimensional low-discrepancy sequence over the unit interval; it was first described in 1935 by the Dutch mathematician J. G. van der Corput. It is constructed by reversing the base-\"n\" representation of the sequence of natural numbers (1, 2, 3, …).\n\nThe \"b\"-ary representation of the positive integer \"n\" (≥ 1) is\n\nwhere \"b\" is the base in which the number \"n\" is represented, and 0 ≤ \"d\"(\"n\") < \"b\", i.e. the \"k\"-th digit in the \"b\"-ary expansion of \"n\".\nThe \"n\"-th number in the van der Corput sequence is\n\nFor example, to get the decimal van der Corput sequence, we start by dividing the numbers 1 to 9 in tenths (\"x\"/10), then we change the denominator to 100 to begin dividing in hundredths (\"x\"/100). In terms of numerator, we begin with all two-digit numbers from 10 to 99, but in backwards order of digits. Consequently, we will get the numerators grouped by the end digit. Firstly, all two-digit numerators that end with 1, so the next numerators are 01, 11, 21, 31, 41, 51, 61, 71, 81, 91. Then the numerators ending with 2, so they are 02, 12, 22, 32, 42, 52, 62, 72, 82, 92. An after the numerators ending in 3: 03, 13, 23 and so on...\n\nThus, the sequence begins\n\nor in floating-point representation:\n\nThe same can be done for the binary numeral system, and the binary van der Corput sequence is\n\nor, equivalently,\n\nThe elements of the van der Corput sequence (in any base) form a dense set in the unit interval; that is, for any real number in [0, 1], there exists a subsequence of the van der Corput sequence that converges to that number. They are also equidistributed over the unit interval.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41681462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41681462", "title": "Von Neumann–Wigner interpretation", "text": "Von Neumann–Wigner interpretation\n\nThe von Neumann–Wigner interpretation, also described as \"consciousness causes collapse [of the wave function]\", is an interpretation of quantum mechanics in which consciousness is postulated to be necessary for the completion of the process of quantum measurement.\n\nIn the orthodox Copenhagen interpretation, quantum mechanics predicts only the probabilities for different outcomes of pre-specified observations. What constitutes an \"observer\" or an \"observation\" is not directly specified by the theory, and the behavior of a system upon observation is completely different than its usual behavior: the wavefunction that describes a system spreads out into an ever-larger superposition of different possible situations. However, during observation, the wavefunction describing the system collapses to one of several options. If there is no observation, this collapse does not occur, and none of the options ever becomes less likely.\n\nIt can be predicted using quantum mechanics, absent a collapse postulate, that an observer observing a quantum superposition will turn into a superposition of different observers seeing different things. The observer will have a wavefunction which describes all the possible outcomes. Still, in actual experience, an observer never senses a superposition, but always senses that one of the outcomes has occurred with certainty. This apparent conflict between a wavefunction description and classical experience is called the problem of observation (see Measurement problem).\n\nIn his 1932 book \"The Mathematical Foundations of Quantum Mechanics\", John von Neumann argued that the mathematics of quantum mechanics allows the collapse of the wave function to be placed at any position in the causal chain from the measurement device to the \"subjective perception\" of the human observer. In 1939, Fritz London and Edmond Bauer argued for the latter boundary (consciousness). In the 1960s, Eugene Wigner reformulated the \"Schrödinger's cat\" thought experiment as \"Wigner's friend\" and proposed that the consciousness of an observer is the demarcation line that precipitates collapse of the wave function, independent of any realist interpretation. See Consciousness and measurement. The non-physical mind is postulated to be the only true measurement apparatus. Rudolf Peierls was also a proponent of this interpretation.\n\nThis interpretation has been summarized thus:\n\nThe rules of quantum mechanics are correct but there is only one system which may be treated with quantum mechanics, namely the entire material world. There exist external observers which cannot be treated within quantum mechanics, namely human (and perhaps animal) \"minds\", which perform measurements on the brain causing wave function collapse.\nHenry Stapp has argued for the concept as follows:\n\nFrom the point of view of the mathematics of quantum theory it makes no sense to treat a measuring device as intrinsically different from the collection of atomic constituents that make it up. A device is just another part of the physical universe... Moreover, the conscious thoughts of a human observer ought to be causally connected \"most directly and immediately\" to what is happening in his brain, not to what is happening out at some measuring device... Our bodies and brains thus become ... parts of the quantum mechanically described physical universe. Treating the entire physical universe in this unified way provides a conceptually simple and logically coherent theoretical foundation...\n\nThere are other possible solutions to the \"Wigner's friend\" thought experiment, which do not require consciousness to be different from other physical processes. Moreover, Wigner actually shifted to those interpretations (and away from \"consciousness causes collapse\") in his later years. This was partly because he was embarrassed that \"consciousness causes collapse\" can lead to a kind of solipsism, but also because he decided that he had been wrong to try to apply quantum physics at the scale of everyday life (specifically, he rejected his initial idea of treating macroscopic objects as isolated systems). See Consciousness and Superposition.\n\nTo many scientists this interpretation fails to compete with other interpretations of quantum mechanics because \"consciousness causes collapse\" relies upon an interactionist form of dualism that is inconsistent with the materialism presupposed by many physicists. The measurement problem notwithstanding, they point to a causal closure of physics, suggesting a problem with how consciousness and matter might interact, reminiscent of objections to Descartes' substance dualism.\n\nThe interpretation has also been criticized for not explaining which things have sufficient consciousness to collapse the wave function. Also, it posits an important role for the conscious mind, and it has been questioned how this could be the case for the earlier universe, before consciousness had evolved or emerged. It has been argued that \"[consciousness causes collapse] does not allow sensible discussion of Big Bang cosmology or biological evolution\". For example, Roger Penrose remarked: \"[T]he evolution of conscious life on this planet is due to appropriate mutations having taken place at various times. These, presumably, are quantum events, so they would exist only in linearly superposed form until they finally led to the evolution of a conscious being—whose very existence depends on all the right mutations having 'actually' taken place!\"\n\nOthers further suppose a universal mind (see also panpsychism and panexperientialism). To most physicists, this merely pushes the problem back, which some see as a fatal unparsimonious move in a competition with other theories.\n\nRecently, it has been argued that the results of delayed-choice quantum eraser experiments preclude this interpretation. However, the experiment has also been used to argue for support of this interpretation. Other researchers have expressed similar objections to the introduction of any subjective element in the collapse of the wavefunction.\n\nA poll was conducted at a quantum mechanics conference in 2011 using 33 participants (including physicists, mathematicians, and philosophers). Researchers found that 6% of participants (2 of the 33) indicated that they believed the observer \"plays a distinguished physical role (e.g., wave-function collapse by consciousness)\". This poll also states that 55% (18 of the 33) indicated that they believed the observer \"plays a fundamental role in the application of the formalism but plays no distinguished physical role\". They also mention that \"Popular accounts have sometimes suggested that the Copenhagen interpretation attributes such a role to consciousness. In our view, this is to misunderstand the Copenhagen interpretation.\"\n\nMany of the originators of quantum mechanical theory held that humans can effectively interrogate nature through interacting with it, and that in this regard quantum mechanics is not different from classical mechanics. In addition, Werner Heisenberg maintained that wave function collapse, \"The discontinuous change in the probability function\", takes place when the result of a measurement is registered in the mind of an observer. However, this is because he understood the probability function as an artifact of human knowledge: he also argued that the reality of the material transition from \"possible\" to \"actual\" was mind-independent. Albert Einstein, who believed in realism, and did not accept the theoretical completeness of quantum mechanics, similarly appealed for the merely epistemic conception of the wave function:\n\n“[I advocate] that one conceives of the psi-function [i.e., wavefunction] only as an incomplete description of a real state of affairs, where the incompleteness of the description is forced by the fact that observation of the state is only able to grasp part of the real factual situation. Then one can at least escape the singular conception that observation (conceived as an act of consciousness) influences the real physical state of things; the change in the psi-function through observation then does not correspond essentially to the change in a real matter of fact but rather to the alteration in \"our knowledge\" of this matter of fact.”\n\nHeisenberg and Bohr described quantum mechanics in logical positivist terms. Bohr also took an active interest in the philosophical implications of quantum theories such as his complementarity, for example. He believed quantum theory offers a complete description of nature, albeit one that is simply ill-suited for everyday experiences - which are better described by classical mechanics and probability. Bohr never specified a demarcation line above which objects cease to be quantum and become classical. He believed that it was not a question of physics, but one of philosophy or convenience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56626792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56626792", "title": "World Institute of Sustainable Development Planners", "text": "World Institute of Sustainable Development Planners\n\nWorldwide Institute of Sustainable Development Planner (WISDP) was established in Oct 2017 and is a partner of UNESCO Hong Kong Association (UNESCO HK). WISDP is a learning and research institute cooperates with United Nations’ sustainable development policy to support training, recognition and promotion of sustainable development planning for individual and organization. WISDP supports the implementation of United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals (17 SDGs) and provides sustainable development training, membership, certification, and continuing professional development (CPD) of sustainable development planning to business, industries, education, NGOs and government. WISDP is initiated and supported by advocates of UN Agenda 2030 and the 17 SDGs. They include UNESCO Hong Kong Association, UNESCO Office of Pacific States, UNESCO Chair in the Political Economy of Education]], the UNESCO Chair in TVET & Lifelong Learning, Members of Working Groups of UNPRME (UN [[Principles for Responsibility of Management Education), Members of UN Global Compact, and Members of UNOSSCO (UN Organization of South-South Cooperation).\n\nUNESCO Hong Kong Association (UNESCO HK) is dedicated to facilitating and achieving UNESCO's mission, creating conditions for dialogue among [[civilizations]], cultures and peoples based upon respect for commonly shared values. It is through this dialogue that the world can achieve global visions of [[sustainable development]] encompassing observance of human rights, mutual respect and the alleviation of poverty. It strives to work towards the building of peace and to facilitate the sustainable development of society, economy and environment through education, sciences and culture.\n\nThe United Nation 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was formed by 2015 and established 17 [[Sustainable Development Goals]] (17 SDGs) and 169 work targets to push the sustainable development for year 2030 worldwide. To push and support the sustainable development of United Nations, a partner of UNESCO HK, WISDP was established in October, 2017 to cooperate with UNESCO HK to push and facilitate the development, planning and implementation of 17 SDGs. WISDP is a worldwide study and [[research institute]] to drive the training and professional recognition of sustainable development to industries, business, education and public service.\n\nWISDP was registered in Hong Kong with the company name, WORLD INSTITUTE OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PLANNERS LIMITED and was incorporated on 12-OCT-2017 is a [[company limited by guarantee]]. WISDP was formally launched in February 2018 and partner with training institutes to provide different levels of sustainable development training to industries and business. WISDP also establish memberships and certification processes to recognize the training, experiences and contributions of sustainable development for individuals and organizations.\n\nUnited Nations established the training and initiatives of sustainable development to keep the sustainability of the earth as well as the human development. Sustainable development implies economic growth together with the protection of environmental quality and social situation, each reinforcing the other. It is crucial to harmonize three core elements: economic growth, social inclusion and environmental protection. The earth is the home of human being and we need to protect make the sustainability of the earth through sustainable development culture and planning.\n\nWISDP is a [[Learned Society]] fostering and advocating UN Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and the 17 [[Sustainable Development Goals]] in accordance with the three components of Environment, Society and Economy. Training is provided for professionals according to their needs and successful trainees are awarded professional membership from WISDP and UNESCO HK Association, and subject to adequate relevant work experience, they are entitled to become Certified Sustainable Development Planners (CSDP). Opportunities are provided for awardees to apply for Fellowship status after a number of years of [[continuing professional development]] (CPD).\n\nIn 2018, WISDP Divisions launched training programmes and lead to professional memberships. The training programmes incLuded Corporate Social responsibility (CSR), Sustainable Finance and Investment, Health Society and [[Wellness (medicine)|Wellness]], Early Childhood Education, Sustainability in Engineering and sustainable development in Insurance.\n\nWISDP partnered with universities, training institutes and professional bodies to promote and develop sustainable development planning knowledge to business sector, industries and education. The study levels includes diploma, certificate and continuing professional development training.\n\nWISDP also push and promote sustainable development to business organizations. WISDP support corporations to promote and implement sustainable leadership, processes, products, services as well as business strategies. Corporations may join the WISDP membership to cooperate with their sustainable development programmes and WISDP will award to the corporations, which contributed sustainable development to the industries and society.\n\nWISDP is set up as a professional organization and membership for practising sustainable development planning. Principally individual who support and experienced sustainable development planners may join the membership. WISDP offer various categories of membership to recognize different levels of sustainable development. WISDP welcome to people who are not practising but are interested in the profession or students who aspire to join the profession in the future.\n\n\n[[Category:UNESCO]]\n[[Category:2017 establishments in Hong Kong]]\n[[Category:Sustainable development]]"}
{"id": "34350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34350", "title": "Yoko Ono", "text": "Yoko Ono\n\nYoko Ono (, ; born February 18, 1933) is a Japanese multimedia artist, singer, songwriter, and peace activist who is also known for her work in performance art and filmmaking. She performs in both English and Japanese. She is known for having been the second wife of singer-songwriter John Lennon of the Beatles.\n\nOno grew up in Tokyo and also spent several years in New York City. She studied at Gakushuin University, but withdrew from her course after two years and moved to New York in 1953 to live with her family. She spent some time at Sarah Lawrence College and then became involved in New York City's downtown artists scene, which included the Fluxus group. She first met Lennon in 1966 at her own art exhibition in London, and they became a couple in 1968 and wed the following year. With their performance \"Bed-Ins for Peace\" in Amsterdam and Montreal in 1969, Ono and Lennon famously used their honeymoon at the Hilton Amsterdam as a stage for public protests against the Vietnam War. The feminist themes of her music have influenced musicians as diverse as the B-52s and Meredith Monk. She achieved commercial and critical acclaim in 1980 with the chart-topping album \"Double Fantasy\", a collaboration with Lennon that was released three weeks before his murder.\nPublic appreciation of Ono's work has shifted over time and was helped by a retrospective at a Whitney Museum branch in 1989 and the 1992 release of the six-disc box set \"Onobox.\" Retrospectives of her artwork have also been presented at the Japan Society in New York City in 2001, in Bielefeld, Germany, and the UK in 2008, Frankfurt, and Bilbao, Spain, in 2013 and The Museum of Modern Art in New York City in 2015. She received a Golden Lion Award for lifetime achievement from the Venice Biennale in 2009 and the 2012 Oskar Kokoschka Prize, Austria's highest award for applied contemporary art.\n\nAs Lennon's widow, Ono works to preserve his legacy. She funded Strawberry Fields in Manhattan's Central Park, the Imagine Peace Tower in Iceland, and the John Lennon Museum in Saitama, Japan (which closed in 2010). She has made significant philanthropic contributions to the arts, peace, Philippine and Japan disaster relief, and other causes. In 2012 Ono received the Dr. Rainer Hildebrandt Human Rights Award. The award is given annually in recognition of extraordinary, nonviolent commitment to human rights. Ono continued her social activism when she inaugurated a biennial $50,000 LennonOno Grant for Peace in 2002. She also co-founded the group Artists Against Fracking in 2012. She has a daughter, Kyoko Chan Cox, from her marriage to Anthony Cox and a son, Sean Taro Ono Lennon, from her marriage to Lennon. She collaborates musically with Sean.\n\nOno was born on February 18, 1933, in Tokyo, Japan, to and , a wealthy banker and former classical pianist. Isoko's maternal grandfather was an affiliate of the Yasuda clan and zaibatsu. Eisuke came from a long line of samurai warrior-scholars. The kanji translation of \"Yōko\" () means \"ocean child\".\n\nTwo weeks before Ono's birth, Eisuke was transferred to San Francisco by his employer, the Yokohama Specie Bank. The rest of the family followed soon after, with Ono meeting her father when she was two. Her younger brother Keisuke was born in December 1936. Ono was enrolled in piano lessons from the age of 4. In 1937, the family was transferred back to Japan and Ono enrolled at Tokyo's elite Gakushuin (also known as the Peers School), one of the most exclusive schools in Japan.\n\nThe family moved to New York City in 1940. The next year, Eisuke was transferred from New York City to Hanoi, and the family returned to Japan. Ono was enrolled in Keimei Gakuen, an exclusive Christian primary school run by the Mitsui family. She remained in Tokyo throughout World War II and the great fire-bombing of March 9, 1945, during which she was sheltered with other family members in a special bunker in Tokyo's Azabu district, away from the heavy bombing. Ono later went to the Karuizawa mountain resort with members of her family.\n\nStarvation was rampant in the destruction that followed the Tokyo bombings; the Ono family was forced to beg for food while pulling their belongings with them in a wheelchair. Ono said it was during this period in her life that she developed her \"aggressive\" attitude and understanding of \"outsider\" status. Other stories tell of her mother bringing a large number of goods with them to the countryside, where they were bartered for food. In one anecdote, her mother traded a German-made sewing machine for of rice to feed the family. During this time, Ono's father, who had been in Hanoi, was believed to be in a prisoner of war camp in China. However, unbeknownst to them, he remained in the city. Ono told Amy Goodman of \"Democracy Now\" on October 16, 2007, that \"He was in French Indochina, which is Vietnam actually... in Saigon. He was in a concentration camp.\"\n\nBy April 1946, Gakushuin was reopened and Ono re-enrolled. The school, located near the Tokyo Imperial Palace, had not been damaged by the war, and Ono found herself a classmate of Prince Akihito, the future emperor of Japan. She graduated in 1951 and was accepted into the philosophy program of Gakushuin University as the first woman to enter the department. However, she left the school after two semesters.\n\nAfter the war ended in 1945, Ono remained in Japan when her family moved to the United States and settled in Scarsdale, New York, an affluent town 25 miles north of midtown Manhattan. When Ono later rejoined her family, she enrolled at nearby Sarah Lawrence College. Ono's parents approved of her college choice but she said that they disapproved of her lifestyle and chastised her for befriending people that they felt were beneath her. In spite of her parents' disapproval, Ono loved meeting artists, poets, and others who represented the bohemian lifestyle to which she aspired. She visited galleries and art happenings in the city; this whetted her desire to publicly display her own artistic endeavors. American avant-garde artist, composer, and musician La Monte Young was her first important contact in the New York art world; he helped Ono start her career by using her Chambers Street loft in Tribeca as a performance space. After Ono set a painting on fire at one performance, her mentor John Cage advised her to treat the paper with flame retardant.\n\nIn 1956, Ono left college to elope with Japanese composer Toshi Ichiyanagi, a star in Tokyo's experimental community. After living apart for several years, they filed for divorce in 1962. Ono returned home to live with her parents and was suffering from clinical depression when she was briefly placed into a Japanese mental institution. Later that year, on November 28, 1962, Ono married Anthony Cox, an American jazz musician, film producer, and art promoter, who was instrumental in securing her release from the institution. Ono's second marriage was annulled on March 1, 1963, because she had neglected to finalize her divorce from Ichiyanagi. After finalizing that divorce, Cox and Ono married again on June 6, 1963. She gave birth to their daughter Kyoko Chan Cox two months later on August 8, 1963.\n\nThe marriage quickly fell apart, but the Coxes stayed together for the sake of their joint careers. They performed at Tokyo's Sogetsu Hall, with Ono lying atop a piano played by John Cage. Soon, the couple returned to New York with Kyoko. In the early years of the marriage, Ono left most of Kyoko's parenting to Cox while she pursued her art full-time, with Cox also managing her publicity. Ono and Cox divorced on February 2, 1969, and she married John Lennon later that same year. In the midst of a 1971 custody battle, Cox disappeared with their eight-year-old daughter. He won custody after successfully claiming that Ono was an unfit mother due to her drug use. Ono's ex-husband changed Kyoko's name to \"Ruth Holman\" and subsequently raised the girl in an organization known as the Church of the Living Word (or \"the Walk\"). Ono and Lennon searched for Kyoko for years, but to no avail. She finally saw Kyoko again many years later in 1998.\n\nFluxus, a loose association of Dada-inspired avant-garde artists that developed in the early 1960s, was active in New York and Europe. Ono visited London to meet artist and political activist Gustav Metzger's Destruction in Art Symposium in September 1966, as the only woman artist chosen to perform her own events and only one of two invited to speak.\n\nThere are two versions of the story of how Lennon and Ono first met. According to the first account, on November 9, 1966 Lennon went to the Indica Gallery in London, where Ono was preparing her conceptual art exhibit, and they were introduced by gallery owner John Dunbar. Lennon was initially unimpressed with the exhibits he saw, including a pricey bag of nails, but one piece, \"Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting\", had a ladder with a spyglass at the top. When he climbed the ladder, Lennon felt a little foolish, but he looked through the spyglass and saw the word \"YES\" which he said meant he didn't walk out, as it was positive, whereas most concept art he encountered was \"anti\" everything.\n\nLennon was also intrigued by Ono's \"Hammer a Nail\". Viewers hammered a nail into a wooden board, creating the art piece. Although the exhibition had not yet opened, Lennon wanted to hammer a nail into the clean board, but Ono stopped him. Dunbar asked her, \"Don't you know who this is? He's a millionaire! He might buy it.\" Ono supposedly had not heard of the Beatles, but relented on the condition that Lennon pay her five shillings, to which Lennon replied, \"I'll give you an imaginary five shillings and hammer an imaginary nail in.\"\n\nPaul McCartney told a second version of the first meeting of Ono and Lennon. In 1965, Ono was in London and compiling original musical scores for a book entitled \"Notations\"; John Cage was working on the book. McCartney declined to give her any of his own manuscripts but suggested that Lennon might oblige. Lennon did, giving Ono the original handwritten lyrics to \"The Word\".\n\nIn a 2002 interview, she said, \"I was very attracted to him. It was a really strange situation.\" The two began corresponding and, in September 1967, Lennon sponsored Ono's solo show at Lisson Gallery in London. When Lennon's wife Cynthia asked for an explanation of why Ono was telephoning them at home, he told her that Ono was only trying to obtain money for her \"avant-garde bullshit\". In early 1968, while the Beatles were making their famous visit to India, Lennon wrote the song \"Julia\" and included a reference to Ono: \"Ocean child calls me\", referring to the translation of Yoko's Japanese spelling. In May 1968, while his wife was on holiday in Greece, Lennon invited Ono to visit. They spent the night recording what would become the \"Two Virgins\" album, after which, he said, they \"made love at dawn\". When Lennon's wife returned home, she found Ono wearing her bathrobe and drinking tea with Lennon, who simply said, \"Oh, hi.\"\n\nOn September 24 and 25, 1968, Lennon wrote and recorded \"Happiness Is a Warm Gun\", which contains sexual references to Ono. A few weeks after Lennon's divorce from Cynthia was granted, Ono became pregnant, but she suffered the miscarriage of a male child on November 21, 1968.\n\nDuring the last two years that the Beatles performed, Lennon and Ono created and attended their own public protests against the Vietnam War. On March 20, 1969, they were married at the registry office in Gibraltar and spent their honeymoon in Amsterdam, campaigning with a week-long Bed-In for Peace. They planned another Bed-In in the US, but were denied entry to the country. They held one instead at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel in Montreal, where they recorded \"Give Peace a Chance\". Lennon later stated his regrets about feeling \"guilty enough to give McCartney credit as co-writer on my first independent single instead of giving it to Yoko, who had actually written it with me.\" The famous couple often combined advocacy with performance art, such as in \"bagism\", first introduced during a Vienna press conference, where they satirised prejudice and stereotyping by wearing a bag over their entire bodies. Lennon detailed this period in the Beatles' song \"The Ballad of John and Yoko\".\n\nLennon changed his name by deed poll on April 22, 1969, switching out \"Winston\" for \"Ono\" as a middle name. Although he used the name John Ono Lennon thereafter, official documents referred to him as John Winston Ono Lennon, since he was not permitted to revoke a name given at birth. The couple settled at Tittenhurst Park at Sunninghill, Berkshire, in southeast England. When Ono was injured in a car accident, Lennon arranged for a king-sized bed to be brought to the recording studio as he worked on the Beatles' last recorded album, \"Abbey Road\".\n\nThe two artists collaborated on many albums, beginning in 1968 when Lennon was still a Beatle, with \"\", an album of experimental musique concrète. The same year, the couple contributed an experimental piece to \"The White Album\" called \"Revolution 9\". Also on \"The White Album,\" Ono contributed backing vocals on \"Birthday\", and one line of lead vocals on \"The Continuing Story of Bungalow Bill\". The latter marked the only occasion in a Beatles recording in which a woman sings lead vocals.\n\nOno influenced Lennon to produce more \"autobiographical\" output and, after \"The Ballad of John and Yoko\", they decided it would be better to form their own band rather than put the material out under the Beatles name. In 1969, the Plastic Ono Band's first album, \"Live Peace in Toronto 1969\", was recorded during the Toronto Rock and Roll Revival festival. This first incarnation of the group also consisted of guitarist Eric Clapton, bass player Klaus Voormann, and drummer Alan White. The first half of their performance consisted of rock standards. During the second half, Ono took to the microphone and performed an avant-garde set along with the band, finishing with music that consisted mainly of feedback, while she screamed and sang.\n\nOno released her first solo album, \"Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band\", in 1970 as a companion piece to Lennon's better-known \"John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band\". The two albums also had companion covers: Ono's featured a photo of her leaning on Lennon, and Lennon's a photo of him leaning on Ono. Her album included raw, harsh vocals, which bore a similarity with sounds in nature (especially those made by animals) and free jazz techniques used by wind and brass players. Performers included Ornette Coleman, other renowned free jazz performers, and Ringo Starr. Some songs on the album consisted of wordless vocalizations, in a style that would influence Meredith Monk and other musical artists who have used screams and vocal noise in lieu of words. The album reached No. 182 on the US charts.\n\nWhen Lennon was invited to play with Frank Zappa at the Fillmore (then the Filmore West) on June 5, 1971, Ono joined them. Later that year, she released \"Fly\", a double album. In it, she explored slightly more conventional psychedelic rock with tracks including \"Midsummer New York\" and \"Mind Train\", in addition to a number of Fluxus experiments. She also received minor airplay with the ballad \"Mrs. Lennon\". The track \"Don't Worry, Kyoko (Mummy's Only Looking for Her Hand in the Snow)\" was an ode to Ono's missing daughter, and featured Eric Clapton on guitar. In the late 1960s, while studying with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in Majorca, Spain, Ono's ex-husband Anthony Cox accused Ono of abducting their daughter Kyoko from his hotel. Accusations flew between the two, as well as the matter of custody. Cox eventually moved away with Kyoko; Ono would not see her daughter until 1998. It was during this time that she wrote \"Don't Worry Kyoko\", which also appears on Lennon and Ono's album \"Live Peace in Toronto 1969\", in addition to \"Fly\". Kyoko is also referenced in the first line of \"Happy Christmas (War Is Over)\" when Yoko whispers \"Happy Christmas, Kyoko\", followed by Lennon whispering, \"Happy Christmas, Julian.\" The song reached No. 4 in the UK, where its release was delayed until 1972, and has periodically reemerged on the UK Singles Chart. Originally a protest song about the Vietnam War, \"Happy Xmas (War Is Over)\" has since become a Christmas standard. That August the couple appeared together at a benefit in Madison Square Garden with Roberta Flack, Stevie Wonder, and Sha Na Na for mentally handicapped children organized by WABC-TV's Geraldo Rivera.\n\nIn a 2018 issue of Portland Magazine, editor Colin W. Sargent writes of interviewing Yoko while she was visiting Portland, Maine in 2005. She spoke of driving along the coast with Lennon and dreamed of buying a house in Maine. \"We talked excitedly in the car. We were looking for a house on the water… We did examine the place! We kept driving north along the water until I don't really remember the name of the town. We went quite a ways up, actually, because it was so beautiful.\"\n\nAfter the Beatles disbanded in 1970, Ono and Lennon lived together in London and then moved permanently to Manhattan in order to escape tabloid racism towards Ono. Their relationship became strained because Lennon was facing the threat of deportation due to drug charges that had been filed against him in England, and because of Ono's separation from her daughter. The couple separated in July 1973, with Ono pursuing her career and Lennon living between Los Angeles and New York with personal assistant May Pang; Ono had given her blessing to Lennon and Pang.\n\nBy December 1974, Lennon and Pang considered buying a house together, and he refused to accept Ono's phone calls. The next month, Lennon agreed to meet with Ono, who claimed to have found a cure for smoking. After the meeting, he failed to return home or call Pang. When Pang telephoned the next day, Ono told her Lennon was unavailable, because he was exhausted after a hypnotherapy session. Two days later, Lennon reappeared at a joint dental appointment with Pang; he was stupefied and confused to such an extent that Pang believed he had been brainwashed. He told her his separation from Ono was now over, though Ono would allow him to continue seeing her as his mistress.\n\nOno and Lennon's son, Sean, was born on October 9, 1975, which coincidentally was Lennon's 35th birthday. John did not help relations with his first son when he described Julian in 1980 as being part of the \"ninety percent of the people on this planet [who resulted from an unplanned pregnancy]\" and that \"Sean is a planned child, and therein lies the difference.\" He said, \"I don't love Julian any less as a child. He's still my son, whether he came from a bottle of whiskey or because they didn't have pills in those days.\" John and Julian maintained a low profile for the next five years. Sean has followed in his parents' footsteps with a career in music; he performs solo work, works with Ono and formed a band, the Ghost of a Saber Tooth Tiger.\n\nFollowing Sean's birth in 1975, Lennon took a hiatus from the music industry and became a househusband to care for his infant son. He resumed his songwriting career shortly before his December 1980 murder, which Ono witnessed at close range. She stated the couple was thinking about going out to dinner after spending several hours in a recording studio, but decided to return to their apartment instead, because Lennon wanted to see Sean before he was put to bed. Following her husband's murder, Ono went into complete seclusion for an extended period.\nOno funded the construction and maintenance of the Strawberry Fields memorial in Manhattan's Central Park, directly across from the Dakota Apartments, which was the scene of the murder and remains Ono's residence to this day. It was officially dedicated on October 9, 1985, which would have been his 45th birthday. In 1990, Ono collaborated with music consultant Jeff Pollack to honor what would have been Lennon's 50th birthday with a worldwide broadcast of Imagine. Over 1,000 stations in over 50 countries participated in the simultaneous broadcast. Ono felt the timing was perfect, considering the escalating conflicts in the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and Germany.\n\nIn 2000, she founded the John Lennon Museum in Saitama, Saitama, Japan. In March 2002, she was present with Cherie Blair at the unveiling of a seven-foot statue of Lennon, to mark the renaming of Liverpool airport to Liverpool John Lennon Airport. (Julian and Cynthia Lennon were present at the unveiling of the John Lennon Peace Monument next to ACC Liverpool in the same city eight years later.) On October 9, 2007, she dedicated a new memorial called the Imagine Peace Tower, located on the island of Viðey, 1 km outside the Skarfabakki harbour in Reykjavík, Iceland. Each year, between October 9 and December 8, it projects a vertical beam of light high into the sky. In 2009, Ono created an exhibit called \"John Lennon: The New York City Years\" for the NYC Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Annex. The exhibit used music, photographs, and personal items to depict Lennon's life in New York, and a portion of the cost of each ticket was donated to Spirit Foundation, a charitable foundation set up by Lennon and Ono.\n\nEvery time Lennon's killer Mark David Chapman has a parole hearing – which is mandated by law every two years – Ono has come out strongly against his release from prison. She is the widow of the victim, and her opinion has a strong influence on the parole board's decision to keep Chapman behind bars.\n\nOno is often associated with the Fluxus group, which was founded by George Maciunas, who was her friend during the 1960s. Maciunas admired and enthusiastically promoted her work and gave Ono her U.S. show at his AG Gallery in 1961. He formally invited her to join the Fluxus group, but she declined because she wanted to remain independent. She did, however, collaborate with him, Charlotte Moorman, George Brecht, and the poet Jackson Mac Low, among others associated with the group.\n\nJohn Cage and Marcel Duchamp were significant influences on Ono's art. She learned of Cage at Sarah Lawrence and met him through his student Ichiyanagi Toshi in Cage's legendary experimental composition class at the New School for Social Research: She was thus introduced to more of Cage's unconventional neo-Dadaism first hand and his New York City protégés Allan Kaprow, Brecht, Mac Low, Al Hansen and the poet Dick Higgins.\n\nAfter Cage finished teaching at the New School in the summer of 1960, Ono was determined to rent a place to present her works along with the work of other avant-garde artists in the city. She eventually found an inexpensive loft in downtown Manhattan at 112 Chambers Street and used the apartment as a studio and living space. Ono supported herself through secretarial work and lessons in the traditional Japanese arts at the Japan Society, and she allowed composer La Monte Young to organize concerts in the loft. They both began organizing a series of events there from December 1960 through June 1961; the events were attended by people such as Marcel Duchamp and Peggy Guggenheim. Ono and Young both claimed to have been the primary curator of these events, with Ono claiming to have been eventually pushed into a subsidiary role by Young. The Chambers Street series hosted some of Ono's earliest conceptual artwork, including \"Painting to Be Stepped On\", which was a scrap of canvas on the floor that became a completed artwork upon the accrual of footprints. With that work, Ono suggested that a work of art no longer needed to be mounted on a wall and inaccessible. She showed this work and other instructional work again at Macunias's AG Gallery in July 1961.\n\nOno is credited for the album cover art for \"Nirvana Symphony\" by Toshiro Mayuzumi (Time Records, 1962).\n\nOno was a pioneer of conceptual art and performance art. A seminal performance work is \"Cut Piece,\" first performed in 1964 at the Yamaichi Concert Hall in Kyoto, Japan. The piece consisted of Ono, dressed in her best suit, kneeling on a stage with a pair of scissors in front of her. She invited and then instructed audience members to join her on stage and cut pieces of her clothing off. Confronting issues of gender, class and cultural identity, Ono sat silently until the piece concluded at her discretion. The piece was subsequently performed at the Sogetsu Art Centre in Tokyo that same year, New York's Carnegie Hall in 1965 and London's Africa Center as part of the Destruction in Art Symposium in 1966. Of the piece, John Hendricks in the catalogue to Ono's Japan Society retrospective wrote: \"[\"Cut Piece\"] unveils the interpersonal alienation that characterizes social relationships between subjects, dismantling the disinterested Kantian aesthetic model... It demonstrates the reciprocity between artists, objects, and viewers and the responsibility beholders have to the reception and preservation of art.\"\n\nOther performers of the piece have included Charlotte Moorman and John Hendricks. Ono reprised the piece in Paris in 2003, in the low post-9/11 period between the US and France, saying she hoped to show that this is \"a time where we need to trust each other\". In 2013, the Canadian singer, Peaches reprised it at the multi-day Meltdown festival at the Southbank Centre in London, which Ono curated.\n\nOno's small book titled \"Grapefruit\" is another seminal piece of conceptual art. First published in 1964, the book reads as a set of instructions through which the work of art is completed-either literally or in the imagination of the viewer participant. One example is \"Hide and Seek Piece: Hide until everybody goes home. Hide until everybody forgets about you. Hide until everybody dies.\" \"Grapefruit\" has been published several times, most widely distributed by Simon & Schuster in 1971, who reprinted it again in 2000. , art critic for \"The Village Voice\" and \"Vogue\", called \"Grapefruit\" \"one of the monuments of conceptual art of the early 1960s\". He noted that her conceptual approach was made more acceptable when white male artists like Joseph Kosuth and Lawrence Weiner came in and \"did virtually the same things\" she did, and that her take also has a poetic and lyrical side that sets it apart from the work of other conceptual artists.\n\nOno would enact many of the book's scenarios as performance pieces throughout her career, which formed the basis for her art exhibitions, including the highly publicized retrospective exhibition, \"This Is Not Here\" in 1971 at the Everson Museum in Syracuse, New York, that was nearly closed when it was besieged by excited Beatles fans, who broke several of the art pieces and flooded the toilets. It was her last major exhibition until 1989's \"\" retrospective at the Whitney.\n\nNearly fifty years later in July 2013, she released a sequel to \"Grapefruit\", another book of instructions, \"Acorn\" via OR Books.\n\nOno was also an experimental filmmaker who made 16 short films between 1964 and 1972, gaining particular renown for a 1966 Fluxus film called simply \"No. 4\", often referred to as \"Bottoms.\" The five-and-a-half-minute film consists of a series of close-ups of human buttocks walking on a treadmill. The screen is divided into four almost equal sections by the elements of the gluteal cleft and the horizontal gluteal crease. The soundtrack consists of interviews with those who are being filmed, as well as those considering joining the project. In 1996, the watch manufacturing company Swatch produced a limited edition watch that commemorated this film.\n\nIn March 2004, the ICA London, showed most of her films from this period in their exhibition \"The Rare Films of Yoko Ono.\" She also acted in an obscure exploitation film in 1965, \"Satan's Bed\".\n\nAnother example of Ono's participatory art was her \"Wish Tree\" project, in which a tree native to the installation site is installed. Her 1996 \"Wish Piece\" had the following instructions:\n\nHer \"Wish Tree\" installation in the Sculpture Garden of the Museum of Modern Art, New York, established in July 2010, has attracted contributions from all over the world. Other installation locations include London; St. Louis; Washington, DC; San Francisco; the Stanford University campus in Palo Alto, California; Japan; Venice;, Dublin, and Miami at the Fairchild Tropical garden in 2010 https://www.fairchildgarden.org/portals/0/docs/education/adventure_program/artgardenprogram.pdf.\n\nIn 2014 Ono's \"Imagine Peace\" exhibit opened at the Bob Rauschenburg Gallery at Florida SouthWestern State College in Fort Myers, FL. Ono installed a billboard on U.S. Route 41 in Fort Myers to promote the show and peace. When the exhibit closed, wishes that had been placed on the installed Wish Trees were sent to the Imagine Peace Tower in Iceland and added to the millions of wishes already there.\n\nIn 2015, Ono created the piece \"Arising\" in Venice. As part of the exhibition \"Personal Structures\", organised by Global Art Affairs, the installation was on view from June 1 through November 24, 2013, at the European Cultural Centre's Palazzo Bembo. In this feminist work of art, female silicon bodies were burnt in the Venetian lagoon, evoking the imagery of mythical phoenixes. When asked for the resemblance between the naming of her record \"Rising\" and this piece, Ono responded: \"\"Rising\" was telling all people that it is time for us to rise and fight for our rights. But in the process of fighting together, women are still being treated separately in an inhuman way. It weakens the power of men and women all together. I hope \"Arising\" will wake up Women Power, and make us, men and women, heal together.\"\n\nIn October 2016, Ono unveiled her first permanent art installation in the United States; the collection is located in Jackson Park, Chicago and promotes peace. Ono was inspired during a visit to the Garden of the Phoenix in 2013 and feels a connection to the city of Chicago.\n\nJohn Lennon once described his wife as \"the world's most famous unknown artist: everybody knows her name, but nobody knows what she does\". Her circle of friends in the New York art world has included Kate Millett, Nam June Paik, Dan Richter, Jonas Mekas, Merce Cunningham, Judith Malina, Erica Abeel, Fred DeAsis, Peggy Guggenheim, Betty Rollin, Shusaku Arakawa, Adrian Morris, Stefan Wolpe, Keith Haring, and Andy Warhol (she was one of the speakers at Warhol's 1987 funeral), as well as George Maciunas and La Monte Young. In addition to Mekas, Maciunas, Young, and Warhol, she has also collaborated with DeAsis, Yvonne Rainer, and Zbigniew Rybczyński.\n\nIn 1989, the Whitney Museum held a retrospective of her work, Yoko Ono: Objects, Films, marking Ono's reentry into the New York art world after a hiatus. At the suggestion of Ono's live-in companion at the time, interior decorator Sam Havadtoy, she recast her old pieces in bronze after some initial reluctance. \"I realized that for something to move me so much that I would cry, there's something there. There seemed like a shimmering air in the 60s when I made these pieces, and now the air is bronzified. Now it's the 80s, and bronze is very 80s in a way - solidity, commodity, all of that. For someone who went through the 60s revolution, there has of course been an incredible change. . . . I call the pieces petrified bronze. That freedom, all the hope and wishes are in some ways petrified.\"\n\nOver a decade later, in 2001, Y E S YOKO ONO, a 40-year retrospective of Ono's work, received the International Association of Art Critics USA Award for Best Museum Show Originating in New York City, considered one of the highest accolades in the museum profession. YES refers to the title of a 1966 sculptural work by Yoko Ono, shown at Indica Gallery, London: viewers climb a ladder to read the word \"yes\", printed on a small canvas suspended from the ceiling. The exhibition's curator Alexandra Munroe wrote that \"John Lennon got it, on his first meeting with Yoko: when he climbed the ladder to peer at the framed paper on the ceiling, he encountered the tiny word YES. 'So it was positive. I felt relieved.'\" The exhibition traveled to 13 museums in the U.S., Canada, Japan, and Korea from 2000 through 2003. In 2001, she also received an honorary Doctorate of Laws from Liverpool University and, in 2002, was presented with the honorary degree of Doctor of Fine Arts from Bard College,\nas well as the Skowhegan Medal for work in assorted media. The next year, she was awarded the fifth MOCA Award to Distinguished Women in the Arts from the Museum of Contemporary Art Los Angeles. In 2005, she received a lifetime achievement award from the Japan Society of New York, which had hosted \"Yes Yoko Ono\" and where she had worked in the late 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nIn 2008, she showed a large retrospective exhibition,\" Between The Sky and My Head,\" at the Kunsthalle Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Germany, and the Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art in Gateshead, England. The following year, she showed a selection of new and old work as part of her show \"Anton's Memory\" in Venice, Italy. She also received a Golden Lion Award for lifetime achievement from the Venice Biennale in 2009. In 2012, Ono held a major exhibition of her work \"To The Light\" at the Serpentine Galleries, London. She was also the winner of the 2012 Oskar Kokoschka Prize, Austria's highest award for applied contemporary art. In February 2013, to coincide with her 80th birthday, the largest retrospective of her work, \"Half-a-Wind Show,\" opened at the Schirn Kunsthalle Frankfurt\nand travelled to Denmark's Louisiana Museum of Modern Art, Austria's Kunsthalle Krems, and Spain's Guggenheim Museum Bilbao.\nIn 2014 she contributed several artworks to the triennial art festival in Folkestone, England. In 2015 the Museum of Modern Art in New York City held a retrospective exhibition of her early work, \"Yoko Ono: One Woman Show, 1960- 1971\".\n\nOno studied piano from the age of 4 to 12 or 13. She attended kabuki performances with her mother, who was trained in shamisen, koto, otsuzumi, kotsuzumi, nagauta, and could read Japanese musical scores. At 14 Yoko took up vocal training in lieder-singing. At Sarah Lawrence, she studied poetry with Alastair Reid, English literature with Kathryn Mansell, and music composition with the Viennese-trained André Singer. Of this time Ono has said that her heroes were the twelve-tone composers Arnold Schoenberg and Alban Berg. She said, \"I was just fascinated with what they could do. I wrote some twelve-tone songs, then my music went into [an] area that my teacher felt was really a bit off track, and... he said, 'Well, look, there are people who are doing things like what you do and they're called avant-garde.'\" Singer introduced her to the work of Edgar Varèse, John Cage, and Henry Cowell. She left college and moved to New York in 1957, supporting herself through secretarial work and lessons in the traditional Japanese arts at the Japan Society.\n\nShe met Cage through Ichiyanagi Toshi in Cage's legendary composition class at the New School for Social Research, and in the summer of 1960, she found a cheap loft in downtown Manhattan at 112 Chambers Street and allowed composer La Monte Young to organize concerts in the loft with her, with people like Marcel Duchamp and Peggy Guggenheim attending. Ono only presented work once during the series. In 1961, years before meeting Lennon, Ono had her first major public performance in a concert at the 258-seat Carnegie Recital Hall (smaller than the \"Main Hall\"). This concert featured radical experimental music and performances. She had a second engagement at the Carnegie Recital Hall in 1965, in which she debuted \"Cut Piece.\" She premiered \"The Fog Machine\" during her \"Concert of Music for the Mind\" at the Bluecoat Society of Arts in Liverpool, England in 1967.\n\nIn early 1980, John Lennon heard Lene Lovich and the B-52's' \"Rock Lobster\" while on vacation in Bermuda. The latter reminded him of Ono's musical sound and he took this as an indication that she had reached the mainstream (the band in fact had been influenced by Ono). In addition to her collaborations with experimental artists including John Cage and jazz legend Ornette Coleman, many other musicians, particularly those of the new wave movement, have paid tribute to Ono (both as an artist in her own right, and as a muse and iconic figure). For example, Elvis Costello recorded a version of Ono's song \"Walking on Thin Ice\", the B-52's (who drew from her early recordings) covered \"Don't Worry, Kyoko (Mummy's Only Looking for Her Hand in the Snow)\" (shortening the title to \"Don't Worry\"), and Sonic Youth included a performance of Ono's early conceptual \"Voice Piece for Soprano\" on their experimental album \"\".\n\nOn the evening of December 8, 1980, Lennon and Ono were in the Record Plant Studio and working on Ono's song \"Walking on Thin Ice\". When they returned to The Dakota (their home in Manhattan), Lennon was shot dead by Mark David Chapman, a deranged fan who had been stalking Lennon for two months. \"Walking on Thin Ice (For John)\" was released as a single less than a month later, and became Ono's first chart success, peaking at No. 58 and gaining major underground airplay. In 1981, she released the album \"Season of Glass\", which featured the striking cover photo of Lennon's bloody spectacles next to a half-filled glass of water, with a window overlooking Central Park in the background. This photograph sold at an auction in London in April 2002 for about $13,000. In the liner notes to \"Season of Glass\", Ono explained that the album was not dedicated to Lennon because \"he would have been offended—he was one of us.\" The album received highly favorable reviews and reflected the public's mood after Lennon's assassination.\n\nIn 1982, she released \"It's Alright\". The cover featured Ono in her famous wrap-around sunglasses, looking towards the sun, while on the back the ghost of Lennon looks over her and their son. The album scored minor chart success and airplay with the single \"Never Say Goodbye\".\n\nIn 1984, a tribute album titled \"Every Man Has a Woman\" was released, featuring a selection of Ono songs performed by artists such as Elvis Costello, Roberta Flack, Eddie Money, Rosanne Cash, and Harry Nilsson. It was one of Lennon's projects that he never got to finish. Later that year, Ono and Lennon's final album, \"Milk and Honey\", was released as an unfinished demo. It peaked at No. 3 in the UK and No. 11 in the U.S., going gold in both countries as well as in Canada.\n\nOno's final album of the 1980s was \"Starpeace\", a concept album that she intended as an antidote to Ronald Reagan's \"Star Wars\" missile defense system. On the cover, a warm, smiling Ono holds the Earth in the palm of her hand. \"Starpeace\" became Ono's most successful non-Lennon effort. The single \"Hell in Paradise\" was a hit, reaching No. 16 on the US dance charts and No. 26 on the Billboard Hot 100, and the video, directed by Zbigniew Rybczyński received major airplay on MTV and won \"Most Innovative Video\" at Billboard Music Video Awards in 1986. In 1986, Ono set out on a goodwill world tour for \"Starpeace\", primarily visiting Eastern European countries.\n\nOno went on a musical hiatus until she signed with Rykodisc in 1992 and released the comprehensive six-disc box set \"Onobox\". It included remastered highlights from all of Ono's solo albums, as well as unreleased material from the 1974 \"lost weekend\" sessions. She also released a one-disc sampler of highlights from \"Onobox\", simply titled \"Walking on Thin Ice\". That year, she sat down for an extensive interview with music journalist Mark Kemp for a cover story in the alternative music magazine \"Option.\" The story took a revisionist look at Ono's music for a new generation of fans more accepting of her role as a pioneer in the merger of pop and the avant-garde.\n\nIn 1994, Ono produced her own off-Broadway musical entitled \"New York Rock\", which featured Broadway renditions of her songs. In 1995, she released \"Rising\", a collaboration with her son Sean and his then-band, Ima. \"Rising\" spawned a world tour that traveled through Europe, Japan, and the United States. The following year, she collaborated with various alternative rock musicians for an EP entitled \"Rising Mixes\". Guest remixers of \"Rising\" material included Cibo Matto, Ween, Tricky, and Thurston Moore. In 1997, Rykodisc reissued all her solo albums on CD, from \"Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band\" through \"Starpeace\". Ono and her engineer Rob Stevens personally remastered the audio, and various bonus tracks were added, including outtakes, demos, and live cuts.\n\nOno's feminist concept album \"Blueprint for a Sunrise\" was released in the year 2001. In 2002, Ono joined The B-52's in New York for their 25th anniversary concerts; she came out for the encore and performed \"Rock Lobster\" with the band. Starting the next year, some DJs remixed other Ono songs for dance clubs. For the remix project, she dropped her first name and became known simply as \"ONO\", in response to the \"Oh, no!\" jokes that dogged her throughout her career. Ono had great success with new versions of \"Walking on Thin Ice\", remixed by top DJs and dance artists including Pet Shop Boys, Orange Factory, Peter Rauhofer, and Danny Tenaglia.\n\nIn April 2003, Ono's \"Walking on Thin Ice (Remixes)\" was rated number 1 on Billboard's Dance/Club Play chart, gaining Ono her first no. 1 hit. She returned to no. 1 on the same chart in November 2004 with \"Everyman ... Everywoman ...\", a reworking of her song \"Every Man Has a Woman Who Loves Him\", in January 2008, with \"No No No\", and in August 2008, with \"Give Peace a Chance\". In June 2009, at the age of 76, Ono scored her fifth no. 1 hit on the Dance/Club Play chart with \"I'm Not Getting Enough\".\n\nOno released the album \"Yes, I'm a Witch\" in 2007, a collection of remixes and covers from her back catalog by various artists including The Flaming Lips, Cat Power, Anohni, DJ Spooky, Porcupine Tree, and Peaches, released in February 2007, along with a special edition of \"Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band\". \"Yes I'm a Witch\" has been critically well received. A similar compilation of Ono dance remixes entitled \"Open Your Box\" was also released in April of that year.\n\nIn 2009, Ono recorded \"Between My Head and the Sky\", which was her first album to be released as \"Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band\" since 1973's \"Feeling the Space\". The all-new Plastic Ono Band lineup included Sean Lennon, Cornelius, and Yuka Honda. On February 16, 2010, Sean organized a concert at the Brooklyn Academy of Music called \"We Are Plastic Ono Band\", at which Yoko performed her music with Sean, Clapton, Klaus Voormann, and Jim Keltner for the first time since the 1970s. Guests including Bette Midler, Paul Simon and his son Harper, and principal members of Sonic Youth and the Scissor Sisters interpreted her songs in their own styles.\n\nIn April 2010, RCRD LBL made available free downloads of Junior Boys' mix of \"I'm Not Getting Enough\", a single originally released 10 years prior on \"Blueprint for a Sunrise\". That song and \"Wouldnit (I'm a Star)\", released September 14, made it to Billboard's end of the year list of favorite Dance/Club songs at No. 23 and No. 50 respectively. The next year, \"Move on Fast\" became her sixth consecutive number-one hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Songs chart and her eighth number-one hit overall. In January 2012, a Ralphi Rosario mix of her 1995 song \"Talking to the Universe\" became her seventh consecutive No. 1 hit on the Billboard Hot Dance Club Songs chart, and both songs charted again as favorites on Billboard's year-end lists for Dance/Club songs for 2011. In 2013, she and her band released the LP \"Take Me to the Land of Hell\", which featured numerous guests including Yuka Honda, Cornelius, Hirotaka \"Shimmy\" Shimizu, mi-gu's Yuko Araki, Wilco's Nels Cline, tUnE-yArDs, Questlove, Lenny Kravitz, and Ad-Rock and Mike D of the Beastie Boys. Her online video for \"Bad Dancer\" released in November 2013, which featured some of these guests, was well-liked by the press. By the end of the year she had become one of three artists with two songs in the Top 20 Dance/Club and had two consecutive number 1 hits on Billboard's Hot Dance Club Play Charts. On the strength of the singles \"Hold Me\" (Featuring Dave Audé) and \"Walking on Thin Ice\", the then-80-year-old beat Katy Perry, Robin Thicke, and her friend Lady Gaga. In 2014, \"Angel\" was Ono's twelfth number one on the US Dance chart. In December 2016, \"Billboard magazine\" named her the 11th most successful dance club artist of all time. \"Warzone\", an album consisting of re-recorded versions of previously released songs, was released in October 2018.\n\nDuring her career, Ono has also collaborated with Earl Slick, David Tudor, Fred DeAsis, and Richard Maxfield. As a dance music artist, Ono has worked with re-mixers/producers including Basement Jaxx, Bill Kates, Keiji Haino, Nick Vernier Band, Billy Martin, DJ Spooky, Apples in Stereo, Damien Price, DJ Chernobyl, Bimbo Jones, DJ Dan, Craig Armstrong, Jorge Artajo, Shuji Nabara, and Konrad Behr.\n\nThe album \"Yokokimthurston\" was released in 2012. It featured a collaboration with Sonic Youth's Thurston Moore and Kim Gordon. The album was also notable as the first collaboration between Moore and Gordon following their divorce. It was characterized by AllMusic as \"focused and risk-taking\" and \"above the best\" of the couple's experimental music, with Ono's voice described as \"one-of-a-kind\".\n\n In 1997, Yoko Ono and the BMI Foundation established an annual music competition program for songwriters of contemporary musical genres to honor John Lennon's memory and his large creative legacy. Over $350,000 has been given through BMI Foundation's \"John Lennon Scholarships\" to talented young musicians in the United States, making it one of the most respected awards for emerging songwriters.\n\nFor many years, Ono was frequently criticized by both the press and the public. She was blamed for the breakup of the Beatles and repeatedly criticized for her influence over Lennon and his music. Her experimental art was also not popularly accepted. The British press was particularly negative and prompted the couple's move to the US. As late as December 1999, \"NME\" was calling her a \"no-talent charlatan\".\n\nHer name still connotes the figure of the evil female interloper to the mainstream. Courtney Love, Kurt Cobain's widow, has endlessly been compared to Ono for her supposed bothersome role in Nirvana's businesses and being blamed for Cobain's suicide.\n\nWhen American singer Jessica Simpson was dating Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo in 2007, the Simpson-Romo relationship was blamed for Romo's poor performances. In response, some Cowboys' fans gave her the moniker \"Yoko Romo\".\n\nIn March 2015, Perrie Edwards, member of English girl group Little Mix, was compared to Yoko Ono and criticised for being the supposed reason for Zayn Malik's departure from the British boy band One Direction, creating tension within the group and causing widespread controversy.\n\nA month after the 9/11 attacks, Ono organized the concert \"Come Together: A Night for John Lennon's Words and Music\" at Radio City Music Hall. Hosted by the actor Kevin Spacey and featuring Lou Reed, Cyndi Lauper and Nelly Furtado, it raised money for September 11 relief efforts and aired on TNT and the WB.\n\nDuring the Liverpool Biennial in 2004, Ono flooded the city with two images on banners, bags, stickers, postcards, flyers, posters and badges: one of a woman's naked breast, the other of the same model's vulva. (During her stay in Lennon's city of birth, she said she was \"astounded\" by the city's renaissance.) The piece, titled \"My Mummy Was Beautiful\", was dedicated to Lennon's mother, Julia, who had died when he was a teenager. According to Ono, the work was meant to be innocent, not shocking; she was attempting to replicate the experience of a baby looking up at its mother's body, those parts of the mother's body being a child's introduction to humanity.\n\nOno performed at the opening ceremony for the 2006 Winter Olympic Games in Turin, Italy, Like many of the other performers during the ceremony, she wore white to symbolize the snow of winter. She read a free verse poem calling for world peace as an introduction to Peter Gabriel's performance of \"Imagine\".\n\nOn December 13, 2006, one of Ono's bodyguards was arrested after he was allegedly taped trying to extort $2 million from her. The tapes revealed that he threatened to release private conversations and photographs. His bail was revoked, and he pleaded not guilty to two counts of attempted grand larceny. On February 16, 2007 a deal was reached where extortion charges were dropped, and he pleaded guilty to attempted grand larceny in the third degree, a felony, and was sentenced to the 60 days that he had already spent in jail. After reading an unapologetic statement, he was released to immigration officials because he had also been found guilty of overstaying his business visa.\n\nOn June 26, 2007, Ono appeared on \"Larry King Live\" along with McCartney, Ringo Starr, and Olivia Harrison. She headlined the Pitchfork Music Festival in Chicago on July 14, 2007, performing a full set that mixed music and performance art. She sang \"Mulberry,\" a song about her time in the countryside after the Japanese collapse in World War II for only the third time ever, with Thurston Moore: She had previously performed the song with John and with Sean. On October 9 of that year, the Imagine Peace Tower on Viðey Island in Iceland, dedicated to peace and to Lennon, was turned on with her, Sean, Ringo, George Harrison's widow Olivia in attendance.\n\nOno returned to Liverpool for the 2008 Liverpool Biennial, where she unveiled \"Sky Ladders\" in the ruins of Church of St Luke (which was largely destroyed during World War II and now stands roofless as a memorial to those killed in the Liverpool Blitz). Two years later, on March 31, 2009, she went to the inauguration of the exhibition \"Imagine: The Peace Ballad of John & Yoko\" to mark the 40th anniversary of the Lennon-Ono Bed-In at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel in Montreal, Canada, from May 26 to June 2, 1969. (The hotel has been doing steady business with the room they stayed in for over 40 years.) That year she became a grandmother, when Emi was born to Kyoko.\n\nIn May 2009, she designed a T-shirt for the second Fashion Against AIDS campaign and collection of HIV/AIDS awareness, NGO Designers Against AIDS, and H&M, with the statement \"Imagine Peace\" depicted in 21 languages. Ono appeared onstage at Microsoft's June 1, 2009, E3 Expo press conference with Olivia Harrison, Paul McCartney, and Ringo Starr to promote the video game, which was universally praised by critics. Ono appeared on the Basement Jaxx album \"Scars\", featuring on the single \"Day of the Sunflowers (We March On)\".\n\nOn February 16, 2010, Ono revived an early Plastic Ono Band lineup with Eric Clapton and special guests that included Paul Simon and Bette Midler. On April 1 of that year, she was named the first \"Global Autism Ambassador\" by the Autism Speaks organization. She had created an artwork the year before for autism awareness and allowed it to be auctioned off in 67 parts to benefit the organization. Ono appeared with Ringo Starr on July 7 at New York's Radio City Music Hall in celebration of Starr's 70th birthday, performing With a Little Help from My Friends and \"Give Peace a Chance\". On September 16, she and Sean attended the opening of Julian Lennon's photo exhibition at the Morrison Hotel in New York City, appearing for the first time photos with Cynthia and Julian. She also promoted his work on her website. On October 2, Ono and the Plastic Ono Band performed at the Orpheum Theatre in Los Angeles, with special guest Lady Gaga, whom she deeply admires.\n\nOn February 18, 2011 (her 78th birthday), Ono took out a full-page advert in the UK free newspaper \"Metro\" for \"Imagine Peace 2011\". It took the form of an open letter, inviting people to think of, and wish for, peace. With son Sean, she held a benefit concert to aid in the relief efforts for earthquake and tsunami-ravaged Japan on March 27 in New York City. The effort raised a total of $33,000. In July 2011, she visited Japan to support earthquake and tsunami victims and tourism to the country. During her visit, Ono gave a lecture and performance entitled \"The Road of Hope\" at Tokyo's Mori Art Museum, during which she painted a large calligraphy piece entitled \"Dream\" to help raise funds for construction of the Rainbow House, an institution for the orphans of the Great East Japan earthquake. She also collected the 8th Hiroshima Art Prize for her contributions to art and for peace, that she was awarded the year prior.\n\nIn January 2012, a Ralphi Rosario mix of her 1995 song Talking to the Universe became her seventh consecutive No. 1 hit on the Billboard Hot Dance Club Songs chart. In March of the same year, she was awarded the 20,000-euro ($26,400) Oskar Kokoschka Prize in Austria. From June 19 to September 9, her work \"To the Light\" was exhibited at the Serpentine Gallery in London. It was held in conjunction with the London 2012 Festival, a 12-week UK-wide celebration featuring internationally renowned artists from Midsummer's Day (June 21) to the final day of the Paralympic Games on September 9.\n\nOn June 29, 2012, Ono received a lifetime achievement award at the Dublin Biennial. During this (her second) trip to Ireland (the first was with John before they married), she visited the crypt of Irish leader Daniel O'Connell at Glasnevin Cemetery and Dún Laoghaire, from where Irish departed for England to escape the famine. In February 2013, Ono accepted the Rainer Hildebrandt Medal at Berlin's Checkpoint Charlie Museum, awarded to her and Lennon for their lifetime of work for peace and human rights.\nThe next month, she tweeted an anti-gun message with the \"Season of Glass\" image of Lennon's bloodied glasses on what would have been her and Lennon's 44th anniversary, noting that more than 1 million people have been killed by guns since Lennon's death in 1980.\nShe was also given a Congressional citation from the Philippines for her monetary aid to the victims of typhoon Pablo. She also donated to disaster relief efforts after typhoon Ondoy in 2009, and she assists Filipino schoolchildren.\n\nIn June 2013, she curated the Meltdown festival in London, where she played two concerts, one with the Plastic Ono Band, and the second on backing vocals during Siouxsie Sioux's rendition of \"Walking on Thin Ice\" at the \"Double Fantasy\" show. In July, OR Books published Ono's sequel to 1964's \"Grapefruit\", another book of instruction-based 'action poems' this time entitled, \"Acorn.\" \nIn 2009 she became an honorary patron to Alder Hey Charity.\n\nOn February 26, 2016, Ono was hospitalized after suffering what was rumored to be a possible stroke. It was later announced that she was experiencing extreme symptoms of the flu.\n\nOn September 6, 2016, Secretly Canadian announced that they would be re-issuing 11 of Yoko Ono's albums from 1968 to 1985; Unfinished Music No. 1: Two Virgins through Starpeace.\n\nOno has been an activist for peace and human rights since the 1960s. After she and Lennon married in Gibraltar, they held a March 1969 \"Bed-In for Peace\" in their honeymoon suite at the Amsterdam Hilton Hotel. The newlyweds were eager to talk about and promote world peace; they wore pajamas and invited visitors and members of the press. Two months later, Ono and Lennon held another Bed-In at the Queen Elizabeth Fairmont in Montreal, where they recorded their first single, \"Give Peace A Chance\". The song became a top-20 hit for the newly christened Plastic Ono Band. Other performance/demonstrations with John included \"bagism,\" iterations with John of the \"Bag Piece\"s she introduced in the early 1960s, which encouraged a disregard for physical appearance in judging others. In December 1969, the two continued spread their message of peace with billboards in 12 major world cities reading \"WAR IS OVER! If You Want It - Happy Christmas from John & Yoko\".\n\nIn the 1970s, Ono and Lennon became close to many radical, counterculture leaders, including Bobby Seale, Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin, Michael X, John Sinclair (for whose rally in Michigan they flew to sing Lennon's song \"Free John Sinclair\" that effectively released the poet from prison), Angela Davis, and street musician David Peel. Friend and \"Sexual Politics\" author Kate Millett has said Ono inspired her activism. Ono and Lennon appeared on \"The Mike Douglas Show,\" taking over hosting duties for a week. Ono spoke at length about the evils of racism and sexism. She remained outspoken in her support of feminism, and openly bitter about the racism she had experienced from rock fans, especially in the UK. Her reception within the UK media was not much better. For example, an \"Esquire\" article of the period was titled \"John Rennon's Excrusive Gloupie\" and featured an unflattering David Levine cartoon.\n\nAfter the Columbine High School massacre in 1999, Ono paid for billboards to be put up in New York City and Los Angeles that bore the image of Lennon's blood-splashed spectacles. Early in 2002 she paid about £150,000 ($213,375) for a billboard in Piccadilly Circus with a line from Lennon's \"Imagine\": \"Imagine all the people living life in peace.\" Later the same year, she inaugurated a peace award, the LennonOno Grant for Peace, by giving $50,000 (£31,900) in prize money originally to artists living \"in regions of conflict\". The award is given out every two years in conjunction with the lighting of the Imagine Peace Tower, and was first given to Israeli and Palestinian artists. Its program has since expanded to include writers, such as Michael Pollan and Alice Walker, activists such as Vandana Shiva and Pussy riot, organizations such as New York's Center for Constitutional Rights, even an entire country (Iceland).\n\nOn Valentine's Day 2003, which was the eve of the Iraqi invasion by the US and UK, Ono heard about a couple, Andrew and Christine Gale, who were holding a love-in protest in their tiny bedroom in Addingham, West Yorkshire. She phoned them and said, \"It's good to speak to you. We're supporting you. We're all sisters together.\" The couple said that songs like \"Give Peace a Chance\" and \"Imagine\" inspired their protest. In 2004, Ono remade her song \"Everyman... Everywoman...\" to support same-sex marriage, releasing remixes that included \"Every Man Has a Man Who Loves Him\" and \"Every Woman Has a Woman Who Loves Her\".\n\nIn August 2011, she made the documentary film about the Bed-Ins \"Bed Peace\" available for free on YouTube, and as part of her website \"Imagine Peace\".\nIn January 2013, the 79-year-old Ono, along with Sean Lennon and Susan Sarandon, took to rural Pennsylvania in a bus under the banner of the Artists Against Fracking group she and Sean created with Mark Ruffalo in August 2012 to protest against hydraulic fracturing. Other group members include Lady Gaga and Alec Baldwin.\n\nOno promotes her art and shares inspirational messages and images through a robust and active Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook presence. In April 2014 her Twitter followers reached 4.69 million, while her Instagram followers exceeded 99,000. Her tweets are short instructional poems, comments on media and politics, and notes about performances.\n\nLennon and Ono were injured in a car accident in June 1969, partway through recording \"Abbey Road\". According to journalist Barry Miles, a bed with a microphone was then installed in the studio so that Ono could make artistic comments about the album. Miles thought Ono's continual presence in the studio during the latter part of the Beatles' career put strain on Lennon's relationship with the other band members. George Harrison verbally assaulted her after she took one of his chocolate digestive biscuits without asking. The English press dubbed her \"the woman who broke up the Beatles\", but Ono has stated that the Beatles broke up themselves without any direct involvement from her, adding \"I don't think I could have tried even to break them up.\" In an interview with Dick Cavett, Lennon explicitly denied that Ono broke up The Beatles and even Harrison said during an interview with Cavett that the problems within the Beatles began long before Ono came onto the scene.\n\nWhile the Beatles were together, every song written by Lennon or McCartney was credited as Lennon–McCartney regardless of whether the song was a collaboration or written solely by one of the two (except for those appearing on their first album, \"Please Please Me\", which originally credited the songs to McCartney–Lennon). In 1976, McCartney released a live album called \"Wings over America\", which credited the five Beatles tracks as P. McCartney–J. Lennon compositions, but neither Lennon nor Ono objected. After Lennon's death, however, McCartney again attempted to change the order to McCartney–Lennon for songs that were solely or predominantly written by him, such as \"Yesterday,\" but Ono would not allow it, saying she felt this broke an agreement that the two had made while Lennon was still alive, and the surviving Beatle argued that such an agreement never existed. A spokesman for Ono said McCartney was making \"an attempt to rewrite history\".\n\nIn a \"Rolling Stone\" interview in 1987, Ono pointed out McCartney's place in the process of the disintegration of the band. On the 1998 John Lennon anthology, \"Lennon Legend\", the composer credit of \"Give Peace a Chance\" was changed to \"John Lennon\" from its original composing credit of \"Lennon–McCartney\". Although the song was written by Lennon during his tenure with the Beatles, it was both written and recorded without the help of the band, and released as Lennon's first independent single under the \"Plastic Ono Band\" moniker. Lennon subsequently expressed regret that he had not given co-writing credit to Ono instead, who actually helped him write the song. In 2002, McCartney released another live album, \"Back in the U.S. Live 2002\", and the 19 Beatles songs included are described as \"composed by Paul McCartney and John Lennon\", which reignited the debate over credits with Ono. Her spokesperson Elliott Mintz called it \"an attempt to rewrite history\", but nevertheless, Ono did not sue.\n\nIn 1995, after the Beatles released Lennon's \"Free as a Bird\" and \"Real Love\", with demos provided by Ono, McCartney and his family collaborated with her and Sean to create the song \"Hiroshima Sky is Always Blue\", which commemorates the 50th anniversary of the atomic bombing of that Japanese city. Of Ono, McCartney stated: \"I thought she was a cold woman. I think that's wrong... she's just the opposite... I think she's just more determined than most people to be herself.\" Two years later, however, Ono publicly compared Lennon to Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, while McCartney, she said, more closely resembled his less-talented rival Antonio Salieri. This remark infuriated McCartney's wife Linda, who was dying from breast cancer at the time, and when Linda died less than a year later, McCartney did not invite Ono to his wife's memorial service in Manhattan.\n\nAccepting an award at the 2005 Q Awards, Ono mentioned that Lennon had once felt insecure about his songwriting. She had responded, \"You're a good songwriter. It's not June with spoon that you write. You're a good singer, and most musicians are probably a little bit nervous about covering your songs.\"\n\nIn an October 2010 interview, Ono spoke about Lennon's \"lost weekend\" and her subsequent reconciliation with him. She credited McCartney with helping save her marriage to John. \"I want the world to know that it was a very touching thing that [Paul] did for John.\" While visiting with Ono in March 1974, McCartney, on leaving, asked \"[W]hat will make you come back to John?\" McCartney subsequently passed her response to Lennon while visiting him in Los Angeles. \"John often said he didn't understand why Paul did this for us, but he did.\" In 2012, McCartney revealed that he did not blame Ono for the breakup of the Beatles and credited Ono with inspiring much of Lennon's post-Beatles work.\n\nOno had a difficult relationship with her stepson Julian, but the relationship has improved over the years. He has expressed disappointment at her handling of Lennon's estate, and at the difference between his upbringing and Sean's, adding, \"when Dad gave up music for a couple of years to be with Sean, why couldn't he do that with me?\" More egregiously, however, Julian was left out of his father's will, and he battled Ono in court for years, settling in 1996 for an unspecified amount that the papers reported was \"believed to\" be in the area of £20 million, which Julian has denied.\n\nHe has admitted that he is his \"mother's boy\", which Ono has cited as the reason why she was never able to get close to him: \"Julian and I tried to be friends. Of course, if he's too friendly with me, then I think that it hurts his other relatives. He was very loyal to his mother. That was the first thing that was in his mind.\" Nevertheless, she and Sean attended the opening of Julian's photo exhibition at the Morrison Hotel in New York City in 2010, appearing for the first time for photos with Cynthia and Julian. She also promoted the exhibition on her website, and Julian and Sean are close.\n\nCanadian rock band Barenaked Ladies' debut single was \"Be My Yoko Ono,\" first released in 1990 and later appearing on their 1992 album \"Gordon\". The lyrics are \"a shy entreaty to a potential girlfriend, caged in terms that self-deflatingly compare himself to one of pop music's foremost geniuses\". It also has a \"sarcastic imitation of Yoko Ono's unique vocal style in the bridge\".\n\nIn 2000, American folk singer Dar Williams recorded a song titled \"I Won't Be Your Yoko Ono\". Bryan Wawzenek of the website \"Ultimate Classic Rock\" described the song as \"us[ing] John and Yoko as a starting point for exploring love, and particularly, love between artists\".\n\nThe British band Elbow mentioned Ono in their song \"New York Morning\" from their 2014 album \"The Take Off and Landing of Everything\" (\"Oh, my giddy aunt, New York can talk / It's the modern Rome and folk are nice to Yoko\"). In response Ono posted an open letter to the band on her website, thanking them and reflecting on her and Lennon's relationship with the city. In Public Enemy's song \"Bring the Noise\", Chuck D and Flavor Flav rap, \"Beat is for Sonny Bono/Beat is for Yoko Ono!\"\n\nThe post-punk rock band Death of Samantha named themselves after a song from Ono's 1972 album \"Approximately Infinite Universe\".\n\n\n\n\n\n! Year !! Awards !! Work !! Category !! Result\n\n\n\n\n"}
