{"id": "22315031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22315031", "title": "2009 G20 London summit protests", "text": "2009 G20 London summit protests\n\nThe 2009 G20 London summit protests occurred in the days around the 2 April 2009 G20 London summit. The summit was the focus of protests from a number of groups over various long-standing and topical issues. These ranged from disquiet over economic policy, anger at the banking system and bankers' remuneration and bonuses, the continued war on terror and concerns over climate change.\n\nAlthough the majority of the protests and protesters were peaceful, the threat of violence and criminal damage were used by police as a reason to detain, or \"kettle\", protesters as part of Operation Glencoe. A bystander, Ian Tomlinson, died shortly after being pushed to the ground by a police officer. A second post-mortem revealed that Tomlinson may have died from an abdominal haemorrhage. The inquest into Tomlinson's death found that he was unlawfully killed.\n\n\nTheir 12-point economic plan for democratic governance demanded democratised financial institutions to deliver secure jobs and public services, an end to global poverty and inequality, and a green economy. The movement was initiated by the Jubilee Debt Campaign, Trade Justice Movement, British Overseas NGOs for Development and TUC.\nA peace activist climbed over the railings into the Houses of Parliament as a symbolic gesture of \"power to the people\". When arrested by police he explained that \"This is the people's parliament, and I am one of the people\".\n\n\nAround five thousand people joined the \"G20 Meltdown\" protest outside the Bank of England. G20 Meltdown was a radical anti-capitalist, socialist organisation conceived in Paris and formed in London in January 2009 prior to the G20 summit. As well as the protest, they organised four nearby squats. Much of the protest, which was \"kettled\", was peaceful although there were violent confrontations. The police used batons and dogs and at least one policeman was injured; some protesters broke into a branch of Royal Bank of Scotland and a bystander, Ian Tomlinson, died after being hit with a baton from behind by a police officer near the protest.\n\nAbout two to three thousand people joined the \"Climate Camp in the City\" outside European Climate Exchange on Bishopsgate, which was peaceful except for when minor scuffles occurred after riot police \"kettled\" the event at 7:30 pm. The street was cleared at about 2 am the following day.\n\nSeveral hundred people joined a peaceful Stop the War Coalition march from the American embassy in Grosvenor Square to Trafalgar Square which brought together protesters from the Stop the War Coalition, Palestine Solidarity Campaign, The British Muslim Initiative, and the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.\n\nAn \"alternative G20 Summit\" with speakers including Tony Benn, Ken Loach, Ken Livingstone, John McDonnell and Caroline Lucas was scheduled to take place at the University of East London which was close to the main G20 Summit venue. At the last minute the university announced that the whole university would close for the duration of the summit on safety grounds, also that Prof Chris Knight, an anthropologist at the University for 20 years, had been suspended and the alternative summit was cancelled. In the event, the summit did go ahead and was held on the lawns of the university and started an hour later than planned and an attendance of 200–300 people.\n\nAround 200 people gathered for a vigil outside Bank following news of Ian Tomlinson's death, and were subjected to a police \"kettle\" despite the vigil being peaceful.\n200 anti-war protesters from the Stop the War Coalition protested at the ExCeL Centre.\n\n\"Spiderman\", the French climber Alain Robert, climbed the Lloyd's building and unfurled a banner saying \"100 months to save the world\" in reference to the urgency of tackling climate change.\n\nOn 28 March 2009, 35,000 people marched through London. At a rally in Hyde Park, they were addressed by Global Call to Action Against Poverty co-chair Kumi Naidoo, TUC General Secretary Brendan Barber, environmentalist Tony Juniper, activist comedian Mark Thomas, and global justice author Susan George amongst others. They heard calls for international action to deliver tax justice, trade justice and a Green New Deal in both rich and poor countries.\n\nThe Put People First alliance of more than 160 unions, development, faith and environment groups called on the G20 leaders to recognise that \"only just, fair and sustainable policies can lead the world out of recession, and that a return to 'business as usual' – with the associated poverty, inequality and climate change – is not an option\".\n\nChristian NGOs including World Vision and Tearfund organised an ecumenical service on the day at Methodist Central Hall, overseen by the Bishop of London. Delegations joined the march from around the world, including Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Luxemburg, Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Korea, USA, Australia, South Africa, Zambia, Canada and the Philippines.\n\nThis protest took place outside the Bank of England. The aim was to \"create a carnival outside the bank\" and to \"overthrow capitalism\". Protesters referred to the day as \"Financial Fools' Day\", a reference to the protest taking place on April Fools' Day.\nThe protest started at 11:25 as four planned marches, each led by one of the \"Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse\", converged on the Bank: the red horse against war approached from Moorgate; the green horse against climate chaos from Liverpool Street station; the silver horse against financial crimes from London Bridge and the black horse against land enclosures and borders from Cannon Street. Protesters were at the Bank of England by 11:53. Protest chants included \"build a bonfire, put the bankers on the top\", and some protesters shouted \"jump\" and \"shame on you\" at bankers watching from windows. The police cordoned off thousands of protesters at 12:52 and many of those within the cordon were not allowed to leave for up to seven hours. Tom Brake, a Member of Parliament and legal observer who was among those \"kettled\", has criticised this tactic.\n\nProtesters from the group Space Hijackers were arrested for impersonating police, after being stopped while in a blue 10-ton armoured vehicle, wearing blue boiler suits and riot helmets.\n\nThe windows of a branch of the Royal Bank of Scotland were broken by a group of protesters at 13:45, some of whom entered the building and looted office equipment and papers and threw smoke grenades, chairs and eggs There was intense media attention to this event, with a ring of photographers surrounding the people breaking the windows and David Howarth MP later commented that one of the unresolved mysteries of the day was why the moment that a masked person threw the first piece of scaffolding through the window it was observed by hundreds of photographers and film crews already in position. Four people, including a 17-year-old girl, have been charged in connection to this damage. RBS has asked for £40,000 in damages from the teenage girl, who has admitted burglary and criminal damage.\n\nFollowing the damage to the bank there were violent confrontations with the police with police using batons against the protesters while trying to push them back. Some protesters fought back, including one masked protester who hit police with a pole, resulting in one injury and a smoke or flour bomb was also thrown. A branch of HSBC also had windows smashed. A journalist reported that the police \"were spat on, hit and had vile abuse screamed into their faces from inches away.\"\n\nA professional photographer saw what they described as \"agents provocateurs\" instigating violence. One who was throwing bottles was challenged by protesters, who accused him of being a police officer. He ran to police lines and was allowed through after showing I.D. Tom Brake MP has also said that members of the crowd told him about suspected agents provocateurs who had been encouraging the crowd to throw objects at the police. A police spokesman said that \"We would never deploy officers in this way or condone such behaviour.\"\nWithout alternative facilities, people used the entrances to Bank Underground station as a urinal, although the police said that temporary toilets and water were made available to protesters. As people were eventually allowed to leave at about 20:00, they were asked for their names and addresses, and required to have a photograph taken. They are, under the law, obliged to provide their name and address, however they did not need to provide the photograph, but those who refused were put back in the pen.\n\nCommander Bob Broadhurst, the officer in charge of policing the G20 protests, said that the \"overall mood\" of the 1 April demonstrations was good although \"unfortunately small groups of protesters intent on violence mixed with the crowds of lawful demonstrators.\" A bystander, Ian Tomlinson, died after being pushed to the ground by a police officer.\n\nProtesters set up four squats as bases close to the Bank of England on 31 March. The police raided an occupied derelict pub in Shoreditch on the evening of the 31st which had been publicised as a \"convergence space for protesters\"; they stopped and searched people entering the building and arrested three people, one on suspicion of assaulting a police officer.\n\nOn 1 April Payne House on Earl Street near Liverpool Street Station was promoted as venue for workshops, films and accommodation with space to house \"many, many people\". The venue was advertised as a drug-free and alcohol-free centre with no photography allowed without permission. Police later raided a large Victorian office building in Earl Street and another squatted building, the RampART Social Center, in Whitechapel on 2 April, detaining a total of at least 80 people and arresting four. A video of the raid allegedly shows an officer pointing a Taser at protesters who are lying on the floor, which would be against police guidelines.\n\nThe \"Camp in the City\" () on 1 April 2009 aimed to draw attention to carbon trading, claiming that far from being a way of reducing release of climate change gasses in the atmosphere it is used as an excuse to continue doing just that. The camp took place outside the European Climate Exchange in Bishopsgate\n\nPrior to the actual camp a group of participants had played a game called \"capture the flag\" in the area on 27 March which was used by the protesters to familiarise themselves with the locale.\n\nClimate Camp organisers agreed to meet with police and exchange contact details shortly before the protest. The meeting was arranged by Liberal Democrat MP David Howarth, who was to mediate at the meeting which was to take place at the House of Commons. Scotland Yard confirmed that a meeting was to take place with police Commander Bob Broadhurst and Chief Superintendent Ian Thomas.\n\nThe camp, which was intended to last for 24 hours, started at 12:30 pm when a camp was established in a section of Bishopsgate between Threadneedle Street and London Wall with tents set up and bunting across the road reading \"Nature doesn't do bailouts\". There were solar-powered sound systems, musicians and a food stall and some 1,000-plus relaxed people.\n\nThe atmosphere was still relaxed at about 5 pm when police with helmets, shields and batons began to surround areas of the camp using section 14 of the Public Order Act 1986.\n\nAt about 7 pm the police stopped allowing people to enter or leave the protest. The police advanced on protesters who put their hands in the air and passively resisted while chanting \"This is not a riot\", a tactic that emerged over the course of a number of Camp for Climate Action gatherings. There were scuffles with the police in which several protesters were hit and kicked by the police and one policewoman needed medical attention. Within the cordon people carried on playing music and preparing food and until the police began letting people leave at about 11:30 pm and cleared the area of the last protesters at about 2 am.\n\nOrganizers of the Climate Camp have released a report of the protests and the police response, \"Demonstrating Respect for Rights\", which includes allegations of police using violence to clear the camp after journalists had left. The camp legal team also released a video of the protests, which includes footage of a demonstrator being struck on the head by a police riot shield, and of another man being punched in the face as the crowd retreats from police.\n\nAn \"alternative G20 Summit\" with speakers including Tony Benn, Ken Loach, Ken Livingstone, John McDonnell and Caroline Lucas was scheduled to take place at the University of East London, which is close to where the main G20 Summit was held. At the last minute the university announced that the whole university would close for the duration of the summit on safety grounds, also that Prof Chris Knight, an expert in anthropology at the University for 20 years, had been suspended for \"inciting criminal action, specifically violence against policemen and women and damage to banking institutions\", and that the alternative summit was cancelled. In the event, the summit did go ahead and was held on the lawns of the university and started an hour later than planned; 200–300 people attended.\n\nScotland Yard officers drew up Operation Glencoe, the plan to protect the summit and prevent disorder. The overall commander (the Gold commander) was Commander Bob Broadhurst.\n\nBefore the event Commander Simon O'Brien said that the capital would see \"almost unprecedented level of activity\" of protest activity with seven officially notified demonstrations and possibly many more they don't know about. Scotland Yard described the G20 policing plan as one of the largest, most challenging and complicated public order operations it has ever devised. They said that the level and style of activity on the internet suggested a re-emergence of groups with similar aims to the anti-globalisation protesters who turned to violence in 2000 and 2001. They said they were determined to avoid the violent scenes of the 2001 G8 in Genoa in which one protester was killed and hundreds more injured. In the days leading up to the summit, the Metropolitan police warned protest groups that the protests on 1 April would be \"very violent\" and that they were \"up for it, and up to it\" in the event of trouble.\nThe police used the crowd-control tactic known as containment or the “kettle”, to hold 5,000 people inside a police cordon without food, drink or lavatory facilities. This combined with riot police pushing into crowds with shields and batons.\nIan Tomlinson died after being shoved and struck by a police officer within a police cordon of the G20 Meltdown protest near the Bank of England. Initially the City of London Police denied that any incident with the police had occurred, and the death was attributed to natural causes.\n\nIncluding a number of raids on squats on 2 April 2009, the police made over 100 arrests and said they had identified and would track down those who had broken the law. A teenage girl was convicted of criminal damage An estimated 5,000 people took part in the protests. It has been suggested that the policing of the event will turn out to have been the most expensive police operation in British history at an estimated cost of up to £8 million, or £1,600 per protester.\n\nOne raid on a climate change group the day after the main protests was ruled to have been illegal in March 2010, the Met Commissioner said that it was unlawful to arrest and search protestors and to force them to be recorded on film. Two protesters were each awarded £3000 compensation after the Met admitted the operation was unlawful as there were no reasonable grounds for suspicion.\n\nThe police choice of \"Operation Glencoe\" as a codename was linked with the Glencoe Massacre.\nIn the buildup to the protests the chairman of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Andrew Dismore, MP, said that \"The police have a duty under the Human Rights Act to facilitate protest and not frustrate it. If they act in a confrontational way and use confrontation language, they will start to provoke the kind of behaviour they are seeking to prevent. There may well be a fringe element that want to incite violence. But that doesn't mean police should criminalise every protester.\" David Howarth, a Liberal Democrat MP, said: \"I am increasingly worried that what the police are saying about the protests will end up in a self-fulfilling prophecy. By talking up the prospect of violence they [the police] will put off peaceful demonstrators and start to attract other sorts.\"\n\nJenny Jones, a member of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said of reports of police brutality that \"If the police were hitting people who were sitting down with their hands up, we have entered a new era of overt violent policing in Britain that will deter people from protesting and cut back our civil liberties\". A police Commander said that their \"tactics were proportionate and worked\". Jean Lambert, MEP, of the London Green Party, wrote an open letter to the Metropolitan Police Commissioner after the event asking for an explanation of the police tactics at the climate camp.\n\nA number of allegations of police misconduct have been reported, including by a press photographer. The IPCC has received 185 complaints relating to police actions at the demonstrations, 40 of which were ineligible and 80 of which concern violence. An officer is being investigated and has received a written warning after writing \"Rob Ward can't wait to bash some long haired hippys up @ the G20\" as a Facebook status update on the evening of 1 April. Liberal Democrat MP Chris Huhne has noted \"the canteen culture of some parts of the Met\".\n\nThe National Union of Journalists has considered taking legal action after Section 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 was used against journalists covering the protests on 2 April. The City of London police asked them to leave the area at the Royal Exchange for half an hour, and threatened arrest if they refused. Section 14 is to prevent \"serious public disorder, serious criminal damage or serious disruption to the life of the community\". The police earlier apologised to journalists reporting the 1 April protests at the Bank of England: \"Section 14 was applied outside the Bank of England to disperse protesters. There may have been some photographers caught up in that. If so we apologise. We respect the right of photographers to cover current events.\"\n\nSir Paul Stephenson, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, expressed \"concern that the video footage of some police actions are clearly disturbing and should be thoroughly investigated\", and a need to be reassured that the use of the containment, or kettling tactic \"remains appropriate and proportionate\". Denis O'Connor has said that some police behaviour \"fell short of the police medal promise to \"guard my people\".\" Others have defended the policing of the protests. Sir Ken Jones, the President of the Association of Chief Police Officers, has criticised the lack of objectivity which he perceives has been shown by the media. Jones went onto question the views put forward by Nick Hardwick, the Chair of the IPCC. Jones also stated that he \"can't think of any other country that doesn't use water cannons, CS gas, rubber bullets\". The Police Federation has also criticised the IPCC, making a formal complaint about the \"deplorable behaviour\" of Nick Hardwick, Chairman of the IPCC, for passing \"lofty and withering judgment on London's police officers\". Home Office Minister Lord West said in the House of Lords that \"thousands of officers acted absolutely professionally and proportionately, thousands were actually able to demonstrate peacefully on our streets, criminal activity in the rest of the metropolis was kept to an absolute minimum and the police also maintained high levels of security. And I think we should be extremely proud of them. This does not excuse acts which are criminal and there are now investigations taking place for those particulars.\" The Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, has defended the police, and said that \"I worry that there are large sections of the media that are currently engaged in a very unbalanced orgy of cop bashing\".\n\nOn 14 April, media outlets published video taken during a vigil for Ian Tomlinson on 2 April outside the Bank of England, near to where he died. A sergeant with the Territorial Support Group is seen slapping a woman who was arguing with him, Nicola Fisher, across the face, then striking her legs with his baton. The officer's identification number was concealed. The IPCC said it would investigate, and the officer was suspended. Sir Paul Stephenson said that uniformed officers should always display their shoulder identification numbers, as \"The public has a right to be able to identify any uniformed officer whilst performing their duty.\" In September 2009, the officer was named as Sgt Delroy 'Tony' Smellie, and the CPS announced that it would charge him with assault. The court case against Delroy Smellie commenced in March 2010 and he has been found not guilty.\n\nAnother demonstrator, Katie Surridge, has alleged that she was pushed to the ground from behind on 1 April by the same officer who later struck Nicola Fisher. That incident has also been reported to the IPCC. IPCC have announced that there is no case to answer.\n\nOn 15 April 2009, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson asked the Chief Inspector of Constabulary to review policing tactics in the policing of public events. Denis O'Connor will review the policing of public events following allegations of two assaults by police during the G20 protests in London on 1 April. He will also assess whether the tactic of containment or kettling is appropriate and proportionate to ensuring people have the right to protest. He said the event was a \"complex policing operation\", and that footage of clashes with police will be reviewed to check if other incidents need to be examined. Sir Paul stressed that all uniformed officers must wear shoulder identification numbers to be easily identifiable by the public. Among the tactics being reviewed is the crowd-control tactic known as the “kettle”, used to pen in protesters. Bob Broadhurst, the commanding officer during the protests, blamed any misconduct of officers on the lack of training they receive in crowd control and on fear. He revealed during a Commons Home Affairs Committee that officers only receive 2 days of training a year.\n\nOn Tuesday 25 January 2011, Broadhurst apologised to the home affairs select committee for telling then in May 2009 that no plain-clothes officers were present at the demonstrations; He admitted that numerous City of London police officers had been present at the demonstration, along with more than one Met officer, including PC Mark Kennedy.\n\nOn 14 April 2011 the high court has ruled that the Metropolitan police broke the law in the way they \"kettled\" protesters at the G20 demonstrations in 2009, and also criticised the use of force by officers.\n\nIan Tomlinson, a newspaper vendor in the City of London, died within a police cordon of the G20 Meltdown protest near the Bank of England. Initially the City of London Police denied that any incident with the police had occurred, and the death was attributed to natural causes. Days later, \"The Guardian\" published video showing Tomlinson had been pushed by a Metropolitan Police Service officer and hit with a baton minutes before he collapsed and died.\n\nThe Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) subsequently ordered a second post mortem and set up an independent criminal inquiry to determine whether Tomlinson was assaulted by police, and whether that assault contributed to his death. The results of this second post mortem have revealed that Tomlinson actually died from an abdominal haemorrhage. A police officer was questioned under caution about Tomlinson's death.\n\n"}
{"id": "24983007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24983007", "title": "Activity cycle diagram", "text": "Activity cycle diagram\n\nThere are many known modeling paradigms to describe the dynamics of system in process-oriented, event-based and activity-based view points. Among those modeling paradigms, the activity-based modeling is a natural way to represent the activity paradigm of discrete event simulation and our knowledge about a system. In activity-based modeling, the dynamics of system is represented as an ACD (activity cycle diagram) which is a network model of the logical and temporal relationships among the activities. An ACD is easily implemented with the activity scanning method of simulation execution.\n\nThe methodology for constructing an activity cycle diagram consists of the following five steps :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7973164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7973164", "title": "Anomalous experiences", "text": "Anomalous experiences\n\nAnomalous experiences, such as so-called benign hallucinations, may occur in a person in a state of good mental and physical health, even in the apparent absence of a transient trigger factor such as fatigue, intoxication or sensory deprivation.\n\nThe evidence for this statement has been accumulating for more than a century. Studies of benign hallucinatory experiences go back to 1886 and the early work of the Society for Psychical Research, which suggested approximately 10% of the population had experienced at least one hallucinatory episode in the course of their life. More recent studies have validated these findings; the precise incidence found varies with the nature of the episode and the criteria of \"hallucination\" adopted, but the basic finding is now well-supported.\n\nOf particular interest, for reasons to be discussed below, are those anomalous experiences which are characterised by extreme perceptual realism.\n\nA common type of anomalous experience is the apparitional experience, which may be defined as one in which a subject seems to perceive some person or thing that is not physically present. Self-selected samples tend to report a predominance of human figures, but apparitions of animals, and even objects are also reported. Notably, the majority of the human figures reported in such samples are not recognised by the subject, and of those who are, not all are of deceased persons; apparitions of living persons have also been reported.\n\nOut-of-body experiences (OBEs) have become to some extent conflated in the public mind with the concept of the near-death experience. However, the evidence suggests that the majority of out-of-body experiences do not occur near death, but in conditions of either very high or very low arousal. McCreery has suggested that this latter paradox may be explained by reference to the fact that sleep may be approached, not only by the conventional route of low arousal and deafferentation, but also by the less familiar route of extreme stress and hyper-arousal. On this model OBEs represent the intrusion of Stage 1 sleep processes into waking consciousness.\n\nOBEs can be regarded as hallucinatory in the sense that they are perceptual or quasi-perceptual experiences in which by definition the ostensible viewpoint is not coincident with the physical body of the subject. Therefore, the normal sensory input, if any, that the subject is receiving during the experience cannot correspond exactly to the perceptual representation of the world in the subject's consciousness.\n\nAs with hallucinatory experiences in general, attempts to survey samples of the general population have suggested that such experiences are relatively common, incidence figures of between 15 and 25 percent being commonly reported. The variation is presumably to be accounted for by the different types of populations sampled and the different criteria of ‘out-of-body experience’ used.\n\nA dream has been defined by some (e.g. \"Encyclopædia Britannica\") as a hallucinatory experience during sleep. \n\nA lucid dream may be defined as one in which the dreamer is aware that he or she is asleep and dreaming. The term ‘lucid dream’ was first used by the Dutch physician Frederik van Eeden, who studied his own dreams of this type. The word ‘lucid’ refers to the fact that the subject has achieved insight into his or her condition, rather than the perceptual quality of the experience. Nevertheless, it is one of the features of lucid dreams that they can have an extremely high quality of perceptual realism, to the extent that the dreamer may spend time examining and admiring the perceptual environment and the way it appears to imitate that of waking life.\n\nLucid dreams by definition occur during sleep, but they may be regarded as hallucinatory experiences in the same way as non-lucid dreams of a vivid perceptual nature may be regarded as hallucinatory, that is they are examples of 'an experience having the character of sense perception, but without relevant or adequate sensory stimulation […]' \n\nA false awakening is one in which the subject believes he/she has woken up, whether from a lucid or a non-lucid dream, but is in fact still asleep. Sometimes the experience is so realistic perceptually (the sleeper seeming to wake in his or her own bedroom, for example) that insight is not achieved at once, or even until the dreamer really wakes up and realises that what has occurred was hallucinatory. Such experiences seem particularly liable to occur to those who deliberately cultivate lucid dreams. However, they may also occur spontaneously and be associated with the experience of sleep paralysis.\n\nPsychotic-like symptoms, such as hallucinations and unusual perceptual experience, involve gross alterations in the experience of reality. Normal perception is substantially constructive and what we perceive is strongly influenced by our prior experiences and expectancies. Healthy individuals prone to hallucinations, or scoring highly on psychometric measures of positive schizotypy, tend to show a bias toward reporting stimuli that did not occur under perceptually ambiguous experimental conditions. During visual detection of fast-moving words, undergraduate students scoring highly on positive schizotypy had significantly high rates of false perceptions of words (i.e. reported seeing words that were not included in the experimental trials). Positive schizotypal symptoms in healthy adults seem to predict false perceptions in laboratory tasks and certain environmental parameters such as perceptual load and frequency of visual targets are critical in the generation of false perceptions. When detection of events becomes either effortless or cognitively demanding, generation of such biases can be prevented.\n\nAuditory hallucinations, and in particular the hearing of a voice, are thought of as particularly characteristic of people suffering from schizophrenia. However, normal subjects also report auditory hallucinations to a surprising extent. For example, Bentall and Slade found that as many as 15.4% of a population of 150 male students were prepared to endorse the statement ‘In the past I have had the experience of hearing a person’s voice and then found that no one was there’. They add: ‘[…]no less than 17.5% of the [subjects] were prepared to score the item “I often hear a voice speaking my thoughts aloud” as “Certainly Applies”. This latter item is usually regarded as a first-rank symptom of schizophrenia[…]’\n\nGreen and McCreery found that 14% of their 1800 self-selected subjects reported a purely auditory hallucination, and of these nearly half involved the hearing of articulate or inarticulate human speech sounds. An example of the former would be the case of an engineer facing a difficult professional decision, who, while sitting in a cinema, heard a voice saying, ‘loudly and distinctly’: ‘You can’t do it, you know’. He adds: ‘It was so clear and resonant that I turned and looked at my companion who was gazing placidly at the screen[…] I was amazed and somewhat relieved when it became apparent that I was the only person who had heard anything.’\n\nThis case would be an example of what Posey and Losch call ‘hearing a comforting or advising voice that is not perceived as being one’s own thoughts’. They estimated that approximately 10% of their population of 375 American college students had this type of experience.\n\nIt has been suggested that auditory hallucinations are affected by culture, to the extent that when American subjects were examined they reported hearing stern authoritarian voices with violent or prohibitive suggestions, whereas voices heard in India and Africa tended to be playful and collaborative instead.\n\nThis is a paradoxical experience in which the person has a strong feeling of the presence of another person, sometimes recognised, sometimes unrecognised, but without any apparently justifying sensory stimulus.\n\nThe nineteenth-century American psychologist and philosopher William James described the experience thus: 'From the way in which this experience is spoken of by those who have had it, it would appear to be an extremely definite and positive state of mind, coupled with a belief in the reality of its object quite as strong as any direct sensation ever gives. And yet no sensation seems to be connected with it at all... The phenomenon would seem to be due to a pure conception becoming saturated with the sort of stinging urgency which ordinarily only sensations bring.'*\n\nThe following is an example of this type of experience: ‘My husband died in June 1945, and 26 years afterwards when I was at Church, I felt him standing beside me during the singing of a hymn. I felt I would see him if I turned my head. The feeling was so strong I was reduced to tears. I had not been thinking of him before I felt his presence. I had not had this feeling before that day, neither has it happened since then.’\n\nExperiences of this kind appear to meet all but one of the normal criteria of hallucination. For example, Slade and Bentall proposed the following working definition of a hallucination: ‘Any percept-like experience which (a) occurs in the absence of an appropriate stimulus, (b) has the full force or impact of the corresponding actual (real) perception, and (c) is not amenable to direct and voluntary control by the experiencer.’ \nThe experience quoted above certainly meets the second and third of these three criteria. One might add that the ‘presence’ in such a case is experienced as located in a definite position in external physical space. In this respect it may be said to be more hallucinatory than, for example, some hypnagogic imagery, which may be experienced as external to the subject but located in a mental ‘space’ of its own. Other explanations for this phenomenon were discussed by the psychologist Graham Reed who wrote that such experiences may involve illusion, misinterpretation or suggestion. He noted that the experiences are usually reported at moments of fatigue, stress, or during the night.\n\nThe experience of sensing the presence of a deceased loved one is a commonly reported phenomenon in bereavement. It can take the form of a clearly sensory impression or can involve a quasi-sensory 'feeling' of presence. Rees conducted a study of 293 widowed people living in a particular area of mid-Wales. He found that 14% of those interviewed reported having had a visual hallucination of their deceased spouse, 13.3% an auditory one and 2.7% a tactile one. These categories overlapped to some extent as some people reported a hallucinatory experience in more than one modality. Of interest in light of the previous heading was the fact that 46.7% of the sample reported experiencing the presence of the deceased spouse. Other studies have similarly reported a frequency of approximately 50% in the bereaved population.\n\nSensing the presence of the deceased may be a cross-cultural phenomenon that is, however, interpreted differently depending on the cultural context in which it occurs. For example, one of the earliest studies of the phenomenon published in a Western peer-reviewed journal investigated the grief experiences of Japanese widows and found that 90% of them reported to have sensed the deceased. It was observed that, in contrast to Western interpretations, the widows were not concerned about their sanity and made sense of the experience in religious terms.\n\nIn the Western world, much of the bereavement literature of the 20th century had been influenced by psychoanalytic thinking and viewed these experiences as a form of denial, in the tradition of Freud's interpretation in \"Mourning and Melancholia\" of the bereaved person as 'clinging to the object through the medium of a hallucinatory wishful psychosis'. In recent decades, building on cross-cultural evidence about the adaptiveness of such experiences, the continuing bonds perspective as originated by Klass et al. (1996) has suggested that such experiences can be seen as normal and potentially adaptive in a Western context too. Since then, a number of qualitative studies have been published, describing the mainly beneficial effects of these experiences, especially when they are made sense of in spiritual or religious ways While most of these experiences tend to be reported as comforting to the perceiver, a small percentage of people have reported disturbing experiences, and there is ongoing research, for example by Field and others, to determine when continuing bonds experiences serve adjustment to bereavement and when they may be detrimental.\n\nThe main importance of anomalous experiences such as benign hallucinations to theoretical psychology lies in their relevance to the debate between the disease model versus the dimensional model of psychosis. According to the disease model, psychotic states such as those associated with schizophrenia and manic-depression, represent symptoms of an underlying disease process, which is dichotomous in nature; i.e. a given subject either does or does not have the disease, just as a person either does or does not have a physical disease such as tuberculosis. According to the dimensional model, by contrast, the population at large is ranged along a normally distributed continuum or dimension, which has been variously labelled as psychoticism (H.J.Eysenck), schizotypy (Gordon Claridge) or psychosis-proneness.\n\nThe occurrence of spontaneous hallucinatory experiences in persons who are enjoying good physical health at the time, and who are not drugged or in other unusual physical states of a transient nature such as extreme fatigue, would appear to provide support for the dimensional model. The alternative to this view requires one to posit some hidden or latent disease process, of which such experiences are a symptom or precursor, an explanation which would appear to beg the question.\n\nThe \"argument from hallucination\" has traditionally been one of those used by proponents of the philosophical theory of representationalism against direct realism. Representationalism holds that when perceiving the world we are not in direct contact with it, as common sense suggests, but only in direct contact with a representation of the world in consciousness. That representation may be a more or less accurate one depending on our circumstances, the state of our health, and so on. Direct realism, on the other hand, holds that the common sense or unthinking view of perception is correct, and that when perceiving the world we should be regarded as in direct contact with it, unmediated by any representation in consciousness.\n\nClearly, during an apparitional experience, for example, the correspondence between how the subject is perceiving the world and how the world really is at that moment is distinctly imperfect. At the same time the experience may present itself to the subject as indistinguishable from normal perception. McCreery has argued that such empirical phenomena strengthen the case for representationalism as against direct realism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "160556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160556", "title": "Ball (mathematics)", "text": "Ball (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, a ball is the space bounded by a sphere. It may be a closed ball (including the boundary points that constitute the sphere) or an open ball (excluding them).\n\nThese concepts are defined not only in three-dimensional Euclidean space but also for lower and higher dimensions, and for metric spaces in general. A \"ball\" or hyperball in dimensions is called an -ball and is bounded by an ()-sphere. Thus, for example, a ball in the Euclidean plane is the same thing as a disk, the area bounded by a circle. In Euclidean 3-space, a ball is taken to be the volume bounded by a 2-dimensional sphere. In a one-dimensional space, a ball is a line segment.\n\nIn other contexts, such as in Euclidean geometry and informal use, \"sphere\" is sometimes used to mean \"ball\".\n\nIn Euclidean -space, an (open) -ball of radius and center is the set of all points of distance less than from . A closed -ball of radius is the set of all points of distance less than or equal to away from .\n\nIn Euclidean -space, every ball is bounded by a hypersphere. The ball is a bounded interval when , is a disk bounded by a circle when , and is bounded by a sphere when .\n\nThe -dimensional volume of a Euclidean ball of radius in -dimensional Euclidean space is:\nwhere  is Leonhard Euler's gamma function (which can be thought of as an extension of the factorial function to fractional arguments). Using explicit formulas for particular values of the gamma function at the integers and half integers gives formulas for the volume of a Euclidean ball that do not require an evaluation of the gamma function. These are:\nIn the formula for odd-dimensional volumes, the double factorial is defined for odd integers as .\n\nLet be a metric space, namely a set with a metric (distance function) . The open (metric) ball of radius centered at a point in , usually denoted by or , is defined by\n\nThe closed (metric) ball, which may be denoted by or , is defined by\n\nNote in particular that a ball (open or closed) always includes itself, since the definition requires .\n\nThe closure of the open ball is usually denoted . While it is always the case that , it is always the case that . For example, in a metric space with the discrete metric, one has and , for any .\n\nA unit ball (open or closed) is a ball of radius 1.\n\nA subset of a metric space is bounded if it is contained in some ball. A set is totally bounded if, given any positive radius, it is covered by finitely many balls of that radius.\n\nThe open balls of a metric space can serve as a base, giving this space a topology, the open sets of which are all possible unions of open balls. This topology on a metric space is called the topology induced by the metric .\n\nAny normed vector space with norm formula_5 is also a metric space with the metric formula_6 In such spaces, an arbitrary ball formula_7 of points formula_8 around a point formula_9 with a distance of less than formula_10 may be viewed as a scaled (by formula_10) and translated (by formula_9) copy of a \"unit ball\" formula_13 Such \"centered\" balls with formula_14 are denoted with formula_15\n\nThe Euclidean balls discussed earlier are an example of balls in a normed vector space.\n\nIn a Cartesian space with the -norm , that is\n\nan open ball around the origin with radius formula_10 is given by the set\n\nFor , in a 2-dimensional plane formula_19, \"balls\" according to the -norm (often called the \"taxicab\" or \"Manhattan\" metric) are bounded by squares with their \"diagonals\" parallel to the coordinate axes; those according to the -norm, also called the Chebyshev metric, have squares with their \"sides\" parallel to the coordinate axes as their boundaries. The -norm, known as the Euclidean metric, generates the well known discs within circles, and for other values of , the corresponding balls are areas bounded by Lamé curves (hypoellipses or hyperellipses).\n\nFor , the - balls are within octahedra with axes-aligned \"body diagonals\", the -balls are within cubes with axes-aligned \"edges\", and the boundaries of balls for with are superellipsoids. Obviously, generates the inner of usual spheres.\n\nMore generally, given any centrally symmetric, bounded, open, and convex subset of , one can define a norm on where the balls are all translated and uniformly scaled copies of . Note this theorem does not hold if \"open\" subset is replaced by \"closed\" subset, because the origin point qualifies but does not define a norm on .\n\nOne may talk about balls in any topological space , not necessarily induced by a metric. An (open or closed) -dimensional topological ball of is any subset of which is homeomorphic to an (open or closed) Euclidean -ball. Topological -balls are important in combinatorial topology, as the building blocks of cell complexes.\n\nAny open topological -ball is homeomorphic to the Cartesian space and to the open unit -cube (hypercube) . Any closed topological -ball is homeomorphic to the closed -cube .\n\nAn -ball is homeomorphic to an -ball if and only if . The homeomorphisms between an open -ball and can be classified in two classes, that can be identified with the two possible topological orientations of .\n\nA topological -ball need not be smooth; if it is smooth, it need not be diffeomorphic to a Euclidean -ball.\n\n"}
{"id": "2462348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2462348", "title": "Basing diagram", "text": "Basing diagram\n\nA basing diagram shows or describes the “pins” of an electronic component. This part usually has more than two pins, so a basing diagram is needed to show which pin does what. Many basing diagrams also show dimensions.\n"}
{"id": "2785223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2785223", "title": "Bernard Benson", "text": "Bernard Benson\n\nBernard S. Benson (28 January 1922 – 15 May 1996) was an inventor and British author and writer of \"The Peace Book\". He was a fighter pilot during World War II, and later worked on the design of early British missiles. He emigrated to the United States where at Douglas Aircraft Co., in Santa Monica, CA, he worked on the Douglas F4D Delta wing fighter and various Douglas missiles.\n\nEarly in the 1950s, he founded Benson-Lehner Corporation with George F. G. Lehner, a psychology professor at UCLA. Soon after its founding, futurist Donald Prell joined the company as Vice President, Application Engineering. The new company was successful, as it filled a niche designing systems that were used to provide data input and output to and from the early computers. The B/L machines semi-automatically read oscillograph and photographic flight test data producing punched tape and IBM punch cards which were then entered into computers. After being processed, the data was then automatically printed on large flatbed graph-plotters. This process automated the formerly manual reading and subsequent hand-plotting of data. B/L plotters soon became the industry standard, and were sold worldwide. After an IPO the company expanded into the field of high speed photography. Two photo-mechanical engineers, Guy Hearon and Harry Katt, were hired, who designed a series of 16mm, 35mm, and 70mm high speed cameras and accessories.\n\nIn 1961, Benson was one of the first persons to warn against the privacy risks raised by computers, claiming that digital data could one day be fed into a single system, leaving individuals at the mercy \"of who or what controls the machine\".\n\nEarly in the 1960s, Benson retired and moved to France, where he purchased the Chateau de Chaban located in the Dordogne. While living there with his first wife Jane Lysbeth Saville Sneath and their seven children, he began writing children's books based on the philosophy of a group of Tibetan monks, who shared his estate. Benson tried to make their philosophy readily understandable to both young and old. He then married Maryse Lheureux and had three daughters.\n\nBooks that were published included: \"The Minstrel\", an allegorical story about Elvis Presley, \"Alice in Plunderland\", \"Strictly Birdsmanship (or how to lay the egg that kills the golden goose)\", and \"On Being an Egghead; or Engineersmanship for the Shell of it\".\n"}
{"id": "32075343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32075343", "title": "Bersih 2.0 rally", "text": "Bersih 2.0 rally\n\nThe Bersih 2.0 rally (also called the Walk for Democracy) was a demonstration in Kuala Lumpur held on 9 July 2011 as a follow-up to the 2007 Bersih rally. The rally, organised by the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections (Bersih), was supported by Pakatan Rakyat, the coalition of the three largest opposition parties in Malaysia, but was deemed illegal by the government. Bersih, chaired by former president of the Bar Council Ambiga Sreenevasan, were pushing the Election Commission of Malaysia (EC) to ensure free and fair elections in Malaysia. It demanded that the EC clean up the electoral roll, reform postal voting, use indelible ink, introduce a minimum 21-day campaign period, allow all parties free access to the media, and put an end to electoral fraud.\n\nThe police vowed to stop any rallies from taking place on the planned date on the grounds that all public gatherings without police permits are illegal. Having originally planned to march through the streets of Kuala Lumpur, Bersih decided to hold its rally at Merdeka Stadium after consultations with the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, Malaysia's head of state.\n\nSupporters of Bersih claim that demands for electoral reform made during the 2007 demonstration fell on deaf ears. UMNO Youth and Perkasa planned counter-rallies, dismissing Bersih's demands for electoral reform, but Perkasa called off its counter-rally due to its inability to secure a venue and permit.\n\nEstimates of the turnout ranged between 10,000 and over 20,000. The protestors were unable to congregate at Merdeka Stadium as many were forced to disperse by police who were heavily deployed throughout the city. Police arrested more than 1600 protestors, including Ambiga and several opposition figures.\n\nThe ruling coalition in Malaysia, Barisan Nasional (BN), which consists of parties representing the major racial groups in Malaysia, has won every federal election since independence in 1957. Opposition parties and civil society organisations have long claimed that BN has been manipulating elections in its favour.\n\nPan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS) deputy president Mohamad Sabu said there were many \"concerns\" about how the next general election will be conducted. He accused BN of cheating tactics, including registering foreign nationals as BN voters. PAS information chief Tuan Ibrahim Tuan Man said the EC and the National Registration Department (NRD) \"were committing abuses,\" and that there were \"rampant media abuses.\" Democratic Action Party (DAP) member of parliament Teresa Kok accused BN of \"gerrymandering\" and \"malapportioning\" electoral constituencies. She also pointed out how the opposition parties' share of seats in parliament was a lot less than their share of the popular vote. Leader of the Opposition Anwar Ibrahim claimed that BN would lose power if elections were free and fair.\n\nCivil society organisation Aliran claimed that there are \"severe restrictions on political freedom\" on opposition politicians in Malaysia. It highlighted structural problems such as access to the media, short notices of election dates, and short campaign periods. Human rights group SUARAM also claim abuses by the ruling party such as gerrymandering constituencies, using public funds for projects to win political support, and the \"unscrutinised\" counting of postal ballots. Transparency International's Malaysian branch, criticising both BN and opposition parties, spoke out against financial rewards promised by political parties to voters while campaigning, calling the practice \"vote buying\" and \"corrupt.\"\n\nBoth the Election Commission and BN have denied allegations of abuse.\n\nStreet demonstrations are rare in Malaysia, but the public has become more vocal with the rise of alternative media and a resurgent opposition. Gatherings in Malaysia of five or more people must receive a police permit, which is rarely granted. The government has used heavy police presence to block rallies as well as arrest protest leaders to stop illegal public protests. Former prime minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said he was willing to sacrifice public freedoms in the interest of national stability. Four rallies in 2007 ended with arrests made by police. A protest in 2009 against the Internal Security Act was also broken up by tear gas and water cannons.\n\nBersih, short for the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections (), is a coalition of 62 non-governmental organisations founded in November 2006. Since its founding, Bersih has been supported by the three main opposition parties, Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR), PAS, and DAP. \"Bersih\" is the Malay word for \"clean\" in reference to the claims of large scale corruption in the leading party.\n\nThe first Bersih rally on 10 November 2007 was estimated to have drawn between 30,000 and 50,000 people. It was broken up by police using tear gas and chemical-laced water cannons. The rally was said to play a major role in helping the opposition parties make big gains in the 2008 general election.\n\nBersih 2.0, as the organisation branded itself for the 2011 rally, is chaired by former Bar Council president Ambiga Sreenevasan. Ambiga served as president of the Bar from 2007 to 2009 and is a recipient of the US State Department's International Women of Courage Awards.\n\nAmbiga has summed up the main issues raised by the organisation she leads as \"unhappiness... in the Sarawak [election], unhappiness about corruption, [and] unhappiness about the independence of our institutions.\" She said demands made during the first rally in 2007 have not been addressed, hence the follow-up rally.\n\nThe communiqué issued by Bersih issued in 2007 called for reforms to Malaysia's first-past-the-post electoral system, ensuring the independence of the Election Commission (EC), eliminating electoral practices deemed unfair to opposition candidates, eliminating corrupt campaign practices, equal access to the media for all political parties, and instituting a caretaker government during election periods, among others in the long term.\n\nThe 2011 rally's immediate demands were:\n\nAfter agreeing to abandon plans for a street demonstration, Bersih also called for a Royal Commission into election practices.\n\nThe rally's original plan was to have protestors gather at the KL Sogo shopping center, Kuala Lumpur City Hall building, and the Kampung Baru Mosque before marching to the Istana Negara to deliver a memorandum to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. After consultations with the King, Bersih decided to hold the rally in a stadium instead. However, their request to use Merdeka Stadium was rejected by police. Bersih accused the government of reneging on a previous offer to let them rally in a stadium instead of the streets.\n\nBersih insisted on gathering at Merdeka Stadium, despite preventative measures taken by police.\n\nSimultaneous rallies in support of Bersih were planned by Malaysian citizens in more than 30 cities in New Zealand, Australia, Japan, South Korea, the Philippines, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Egypt, Switzerland, Sweden, Austria, France, Great Britain, Ireland, Canada, the United States and Cambodia.\n\nAfter frustration at by being shut out of observing the April 2011 Sarawak election, Bersih announced in a press release on 26 May that it had decided to organise a gathering on 9 July to press for electoral reform.\n\nMalay Supremacy movement Perkasa spoke out strongly against the rally. On 15 June, Perkasa announced that it had secured the support of over 30 non-governmental organisations and challenged Bersih organisers over who could stage a bigger rally on 9 July. It called on Bersih to cancel its rally, warning that clashes might occur. Perkasa president Ibrahim Ali warned \"[If they proceed] there will be a clash. If that happens, it is for the better.\"\n\nOn 19 June, Perkasa held a gathering to protest the Bersih rally and to launch an opposing coalition of NGOs known as Gerak Aman. During the gathering, images of Ambiga—described by flyers as \"a dangerous Hindu woman\"—were burned, while Ibrahim warned the Chinese community not to participate in the Bersih rally.\n\nOn 8 July, Perkasa announced the cancellation of its counter-rally due to its inability to secure a venue and a police permit.\n\nUMNO Youth leader Khairy Jamaluddin announced that UMNO Youth will hold another rally on the same day (known as the \"Patriot Rally\" or \"Himpunan Patriot\") to \"strengthen the democratic system\" and show that \"the voice of the people does not belong only to the opposition.\" He added that they had \"a right to assembly guaranteed by the constitution.\"\n\nKhairy and Ibrahim became involved in a war of words over the latter's comments on regarding the Chinese community, with each side calling for the other to be investigated under the Sedition Act. Ibrahim later backtracked from his comments.\n\nUMNO Youth's plan was to gather at Bukit Bintang and possibly march towards Merdeka Stadium.\n\nBersih's demands were repeatedly dismissed by the Election Commission (EC), who sought to tie the organisation to the opposition's agenda. EC deputy chairman Wan Ahmad Wan Omar claimed Bersih was working with Pakatan Rakyat to \"overthrow the government.\" In turn, Ambiga criticised the EC's conduct, asking them to remain independent from politics.\n\nOn 20 June, the EC extended an offer to Bersih to meet and discuss its demands, on the condition that the rally be called off. He claimed that during a previous meeting with Bersih in 2010, it had agreed that its demands were met. Bersih rejected the EC's offer.\n\nSpeaking to reporters while observing the Thai general election in July, Abdul Aziz said the EC was considering allowing international observers to monitor the next Malaysian general election.\n\nPrime minister Najib Razak warned that Bersih would be responsible if chaos ensued from the rally. Home Minister Hishamuddin Hussein warned against the rally, fearing the chaos that might ensue. He affirmed on 7 June that the rally was \"illegal,\" and urged the organisers to call it off. He promised to clamp down on demonstrators if they threatened national security. On 22 June, he confirmed that none of the three rallies would receive police permits to hold gatherings on 9 July.\n\nThe government also outlawed the wearing and distribution of Bersih's yellow shirts and declared Bersih an illegal organisation under Section 5 of the Societies Act 1966. Bersih countered that as a coalition of groups it need not be registered.\n\nNajib initially offered Bersih the opportunity of holding the rally in a stadium instead of the streets. The government later rejected Bersih's request to hold the rally at Merdeka Stadium, and asked them to use a stadium in Selangor instead. However, the Sultan of Selangor had previously condemned demonstrations.\n\nPAS deputy president Mohamad Sabu gave the rally his party's full backing. Calling the event the \"Walk for Democracy,\" he asked for 300,000 PAS members to attend the gathering. PAS president Abdul Hadi Awang ordered all of its members (numbering one million) to join the rally. The Leader of the Opposition, Anwar Ibrahim, will also take part in the rally. The DAP also pledged support for the rally.\n\nOn 19 June, Anwar reportedly told members of his Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR) that he would ask Ambiga to cancel the rally if the government met Bersih's demands. His statement was rebuffed by Ambiga the following day. Anwar later claimed he was misquoted. This incident was criticised by ruling coalition parties, who have argued that the rally is in fact an opposition tool to gain support.\n\nThe Bersih rally was backed by the Human Rights Commission of Malaysia (Suhakam), Transparency International Malaysia (TI-M), and the Malaysian Consultative Council of Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Sikhism and Taoism (MCCBCHST). The MCCBCHST also backed Perkasa and UMNO Youth's right to hold their rallies.\n\nAmnesty International called on the government to end the \"mass repression\" of Bersih activists. Human Rights Watch urged the government to release all detained activists, return confiscated material, and permit the rally to proceed. Deputy Asia director Phil Robertson said \"Governments that elected Malaysia to a second term on the UN Human Rights Council might feel duped.\"\n\nThe Asia-Europe Peoples' Forum (AEPF), consisting of 120 international NGOs, condemned the Malaysian government for the crackdown on activists.\n\nOn 5 July, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights voiced concern about the restriction of freedom of expression in Malaysia and urged the government to release detained Bersih activists.\n\nOn 23 June, Ambiga received a death threat via text message. She remained defiant, saying \"nothing has changed\" and the rally will go on.\n\nThe grandmaster of the Malaysian Silat Lincah Organisation (PSSLM) reportedly threatened to \"wage war\" against Bersih activists. Najib subsequently endorsed silat groups, including PSSLM.\n\nMalaysia's head of state, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, Tuanku Mizan Zainal Abidin, issued a statement on 3 July urging moderation by all parties. He said \"street demonstrations bring more bad than good although the original intention is good,\" and called for Bersih to resolve its differences with the government peacefully. He also expressed confidence in Prime Minister Najib Razak's administration.\n\nFollowing an audience with the King, Ambiga announced that Bersih accepted the government's offer to hold the rally in a stadium instead of the streets. Despite Bersih's meeting with the King, the government maintained its stance that Bersih is illegal.\n\nAt least 2,136 police reports, from business operators, travel agencies, and UMNO Youth, were filed against Bersih since the rally's announcement. On 15 June, the police announced that permits would not be issued for any rally, saying that the rallies would \"disturb the peace\" and \"cause traffic chaos.\" Bersih remained defiant despite not receiving the permit, and promised to co-operate with police during the gathering.\n\nPolice also investigated allegations that Ambiga received funds from foreign NGOs \"to cause chaos in Malaysia.\"\n\nPolice recorded statements from Ambiga, Ibrahim, and opposition politicians ahead of the rally. On 1 July, the police ceased discussions with Bersih, Perkasa and UMNO Youth and promised to prevent any street rallies from taking place.\n\nMore than 150 people were arrested before 9 July for Bersih-related activities, including distributing leaflets. Most were released after several hours of questioning.\n\n30 members of Parti Sosialis Malaysia (PSM) were arrested in Penang on 26 June on suspicion of spreading communism and conspiring to overthrow the government. Six members, including MP Michael Jeyakumar Devaraj, remain held under the Emergency Ordinance 1969, which allows indefinite detention without trial.\n\nPolice also raided and vandalised Bersih's office in Petaling Jaya on 30 June.\n\nOne day before the planned rally, police released a list of 91 individuals, including Ambiga, Khairy and Ibrahim, barred from entering Kuala Lumpur's central business district on 9 July.\n\nPolice began imposing roadblocks in the Klang Valley on Wednesday, 6 July, which led to massive traffic congestion and complaints from the public. They described it as a \"preventive\" move to stop protesters from participating in the protest.\n\nOn 8 July, police sealed off Merdeka Square and rolled in water cannon and riot police trucks. At midnight on 9 July, major roads in the city was shut and public transportation suspended.\n\nKuala Lumpur was described as a \"ghost town\" on the morning of 9 July. Many offices and shops were closed as police maintained heavy presences in key areas. Crowds began pouring in by noon, where they were met by police who took \"extraordinary\" security measures, known as \"Operation Erase Bersih.\" Many were arrested and transported to the police training center (Pulapol). The protestors were arrested under Section 27 of the Police Act for planning to participate in illegal rallies, and face several years in prison if convicted.\n\nIndependent assessments put the rally numbers at between 10,000 and over 20,000, while Bersih claimed a turnout of 50,000.\n\nMajor gathering points included Menara Maybank, Jalan Pudu, and Puduraya where riot police confronted protestors. Thousands tried to reach Merdeka Stadium from various parts of the city, chanting \"Hidup rakyat!\" (\"Long live the people!\"). Police responded by firing numerous rounds of tear gas and chemical-laced water, causing the crowds to disperse into nearby buildings. Police continued to fire tear gas and chemical-laced water at the buildings. Many buildings were targeted by the police including a hospital which the police denied happened even though there are pictures of the water cannons spraying the hospital.\n\nAt 14:00, Bersih and Pakatan Rakyat leaders began their march towards Merdeka Stadium. Shielded by hundreds of supporters, they pushed past three lines of police personnel awaiting them outside KL Sentral. Around 14:30, while walking with supporters in Brickfields, Ambiga and fellow steering committee member Maria Chin Abdullah were arrested. Opposition politicians detained include Abdul Hadi Awang, Mohamad Sabu, Salahuddin Ayub, Mahfuz Omar, Dzulkefly Ahmad, Azmin Ali, Tian Chua, Fuziah Salleh, Sivarasa Rasiah, and Ngeh Koo Ham. Anwar Ibrahim said he sustained a bruise on his head and a cut leg when police fired live rounds. PAS MP Khalid Samad was said to have suffered a serious head injury and was admitted to hospital.\n\nUMNO Youth's rally in Bukit Bintang however, was allowed to on peacefully without intervention from the police.\n\nAround 1,000 protestors eventually reached Merdeka Stadium, including national laureate A. Samad Said and PAS's Husam Musa. At around 16:00, the crowd voluntarily began dispersing. However, police continued to fire tear gas and chemical-laced water at any individual and moved in to arrest them. Another group of protestors tried to reach the National Palace, while a third group gathered at Kuala Lumpur City Centre (KLCC) Park beneath the Petronas Twin Towers. Thousands eventually gathered at KLCC but were dispersed by police using tear gas and chemically-laced water.\n\nBy 18:40 in the evening, police had confirmed 1,667 arrests, including 167 females and minors. Most of the arrested protestors, including Ambiga, were freed by the end of the day.\n\nOne death was reported. Protestor Baharuddin Ahmad accidentally inhaled tear gas fired by police. He was later arrested, but when he started to black out police didn't do anything and just stood there and watched. He was restrained by handcuffs which made the matters worse and he wasn't released because police lost the keys. After 15 minutes, an ambulance was called but never arrived. Finally, a volunteer took Baharuddin to a nearby hospital but it was already too late. Police said he died of heart complications.\n\nBersih rallies also commenced in Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane and Canberra, Australia, attracting around 750 people, 300 people, 200 people, 150 people, 50 people and 30 people respectively. Rallies were also reported in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch, New Zealand, as well as in London, England. A gathering of about 120 people was reported at the Speaker's Corner at Hong Lim Park, Singapore. Further rallies were reported in central Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland, Sweden, France, England, Scotland, Ireland, Canada and the United States.\n\nNational laureate A. Samad Said called the rally a \"great success\", lauding the multiracial unity among the protestors. Ambiga, speaking after being released, congratulated those who attended the rally, saying \"we were not intimidated.\" The Bersih leadership commended protestors for behaving peacefully and condemned the police for reacting harshly to the demonstration. They said the gathering was \"not the end, it is but one more step in the long walk for clean and fair elections in Malaysia.\"\n\nLeader of the Opposition Anwar Ibrahim said the rally was a \"success\" despite \"police brutality.\" DAP secretary-general Lim Guan Eng said the \"police abuse\" was \"a big blow to the image of Malaysia.\"\n\nPrime Minister Najib Razak downplayed the rally, insisting it only represented a minority of the population. He also said the anti-government sentiment among the protestors confirmed the government's fears that Bersih's agenda had been hijacked by the opposition. Home Minister Hishamuddin Hussein praised the police for keeping the rally under control and said the rally revealed itself to be an opposition plot.\n\nThe United States expressed concern over the crackdown. State Department spokesman Mark Toner said \"We stand for... the right for people to freely express their democratic aspirations and express their views freely.\"\n\nAmnesty International released a statement saying: \"This brutal crackdown on peaceful protesters is undermining Malaysia’s claim to be a moderate democracy. Mr. Najib’s government has chosen the path of repression, not reform.\" Lawyers for Liberty released a statement saying that the police deliberately shot gas canisters against the protestors.\n\nOn 15 August 2011, Najib announced that a parliamentary select committee will be formed to examine the electoral system. He said the committee will consist of members of parliament from both the government and opposition coalition who will discuss electoral reform issues \"so that a mutual agreement can be reached.\"\n\nIn his Malaysia Day 2011 address in September, Najib announced the government's intentions to repeal the Internal Security Act, Emergency Ordinance, remove the annual renewal of press and publication permits, and review Section 27 of the Police Act. In November 2011, the government tabled the Peaceful Assembly Act to replace Section 27 of the Police Act.\n\nThe lead-up to the rally has received polarising coverage in Malaysia's print and internet news media. Malaysia's print media are subject to the Printing Presses and Publications Act, which stipulates they can only publish with a license granted by the Ministry of Home Affairs. A news website has alleged that the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission instructed radio and television stations to omit coverage of police violence and focus on the damage done by rally participants.\n\nState news agency Bernama quoted several political analysts saying that the rally will tarnish Malaysia's image abroad and is a distraction from Anwar Ibrahim's ongoing sodomy trials. It claimed the 1998 demonstrations against Anwar's arrest and the 2007 Bersih rally caused \"inconvenience to the public and damage to public property, attracting bad publicity from the international media.\" One analyst said elections are \"already fair as fair can be.\" Bernama also reported analysts saying that Ambiga has a history of provoking Muslims and working against interests of the Malay community.\n\n\"Utusan Malaysia\", a newspaper owned by the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), a governing party, criticised the rally as \"dirty\" on a 12 June editorial. In particular, it made reference to Anwar's sodomy trial and sex video allegations, calling him a hypocrite and urging Malaysians to protest against the opposition leader instead. It also warned against disunity among Malays, and claimed that the DAP, backed strongly by Chinese constituents, would benefit most from the rally. \"Utusan\" reported that 70 percent of the 1000 who attended the Bersih 2.0 pre-launch on 19 June were non-Malay. The newspaper has also portrayed the rally as anti-Islam. They quoted pro-UMNO political analysts attacking Ambiga for \"angering Muslims and Malays,\" as well as reported that foreign Christian organisations are funding the rally.\n\nTay Tian Yan wrote in the \"Sin Chew Daily\", the highest circulated daily in Malaysia, that the rally is a repeat scenario of the 2007 protest, where the opposition cashed in on public discontent over rising prices and staged the rally to generate momentum ahead of the general election. He also noted that the counter-rally by UMNO Youth is a ploy by BN to mitigate the Bersih rally's momentum, as opposed to suppressing the rally outright, which he said would swing public opinion against BN. Lim Sue Goan noted the involvement of Pakatan Rakyat and UMNO in opposite rallies, and said the event has grown from becoming a mere march to demand free elections to a political showdown between the government and opposition.\n\nIn a 22 June editorial, \"The Star\", owned by the Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA), also a governing party, said opposition parties are colluding with the rally's organisers to discredit the authorities in an attempt to gain support ahead of the elections. It accused Bersih of \"[creating] cynical distrust in the authorities to give [themselves] and their political ringleaders a psychological advantage.\"\n\nJohan Jaaffar, chairman of Media Prima (owned by UMNO), the parent company of the \"New Straits Times\", wrote in the paper: \"The government of the day is not perfect. So, too, the system... we don't solve problems on the streets. That's not us, nor our way.\"\n\nM Faqih, writing in the PAS organ \"Harakah Daily\", compared the planned rally to the September 1998 protests in Kuala Lumpur against then-deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim's sacking and detention on sodomy and corruption charges, which he described as peaceful unlike the revolutions in Tunisia and Egypt. He called on the opposition to seize the initiative with public discontent over government policies and use the rally as a stepping stone to victory in next general election.\n\nJosh Hong of \"Malaysiakini\" questioned the law requiring protest organisers to obtain permits, saying the freedom of speech and right to assembly are guaranteed by the Constitution. He also criticised the government's record of cracking down civil rights campaigners and political activists and the mainstream media's demonisation of the Bersih rally. Fellow columnists Mariam Mokhtar and Dean Johns criticised the government's crackdown on Bersih.\n\nNews website \"The Malaysian Insider\" called the government's tough stand against the Bersih rally \"double standards,\" deriding the government's non-action against Ibrahim Ali, who had earlier called for jihad against Christians. It also blamed the police for the chaos that occurred during the 2007 rally and dismissed the government's concern for national security and threat to tourism as self-caused. The website reported analysts saying the rally will help PAS cement the growing support the party has gained among the Malay community.\n\n\"Free Malaysia Today\", another news website, argued in favour of the rally, saying that concerns that it will serve as a \"spring offensive\" to overthrow the government are exaggerated. It lamented what it perceived as Malaysia's flawed democracy, saying \"[there] are two ways to punish political perverts who have raped democracy: vote them out or take to the streets.\" It also criticised the government for threatening to clamp down on protestors, saying that the ruling coalition is using public order as an excuse to preserve its stay in power. In another editorial the day before the rally, FMT was highly critical of the government, asking the people to \"decide the course of history\" and defy a \"harsh and repressive\" state.\n\nIn an op-ed for \"The Wall Street Journal\", former US ambassador to Malaysia John R. Malott said Najib's UMNO is \"running scared\" of losing power and is waging a campaign of intimidation against Bersih. He called the protest \"a brave step\" towards the country's transition to full democracy.\n\nProfessor Clive Kessler of the University of New South Wales in an interview with ABC Radio stated that the Agong's intervention was a rebuke to Umno and the government and an acknowledgement of Bersih’s legitimacy.\n\nNewspapers owned by Barisan Nasional parties were highly critical of the rally, accusing Bersih of disturbing the peace. \"Utusan Malaysia\" called the police operation to foil the illegal rally a success. \"The Star\" remarked in an editorial the following day: \"If every complaint made one or the other party take to the streets, bringing a city to a standstill, people would not be getting much work done.\" It said Bersih achieved the publicity it sought, and that everyone should move on. The \"New Straits Times\" said there was \"no winner in this madness\" as many were hurt, and \"Bersih's intentions were hijacked by the opposition coalition.\" NST's 10 July front page featured a photo of a protestor throwing an object with the headline \"Peaceful?\"\n\n\"The Malaysian Insider\"s Debra Chong said Najib's administration \"took a massive punch to its gut,\" as accounts of police personnel using tear gas and water cannons against unarmed civilians were reported by international media. She said the rally showed the willingness of the middle class and civil society to stand up to the government. TMI's Sheridan Mahavera said the rally was a display of racial unity. Jeswan Kaur of \"Free Malaysia Today\" said Najib and the police were to blame for the chaotic scenes.\n\nIbrahim Suffian, head of the Merdeka Center, an independent think tank, said the actions of Bersih and the government polarised Malaysians of opposite political opinions. \"For Pakatan Rakyat supporters, it has just increased their scepticism of the [BN-ruled] government. For those who are pro-government, it has hardened their belief that the PR is out to cause trouble.\" One analyst accused Barisan Nasional of abusing public institutions to protect its power, while another added that \"the police lost more credibility than the protesters.\"\n\nInternational reaction was unanimously critical of the government. The Singapore \"Straits Times\" added that Malaysian society has been polarised by the country’s divisive politics as clearly demonstrated when thousands braved a security lockdown of Kuala Lumpur. In an editorial, the \"Jakarta Post\" described Malaysia as a \"rich but not free\" country, with its leaders still \"laboring under an old paradigm\" and refusing to allow its people to exercise their rights to free speech by invoking racial tension. Al Jazeera English's Teymoor Nabili said the government acted out of fear of an Egypt-style revolution. Bloomberg columnist William Pesek calls the rally a part of the \"rising call for political change in Asia\" that play a decisive role in foreign investment to Asian countries. The Asian Sentinel stated that although Najib Tun Razak appears to have won the battle by closing down Kuala Lumpur on Saturday and arresting 1,667 mostly peaceful marchers and would-be marchers, the consensus seems to be that Malaysia has suffered a blow to its international reputation as a moderate, democratic country.\n\n\"The Guardian\"s Simon Tisdall slammed Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak's harsh treatment towards the peaceful rally participants, noting that the British Prime Minister David Cameron should tell Najib that \"strong-arm tactics against protesters are unacceptable\" and that \"Malaysia's leaders should wake up and smell the coffee\".\n\n\"The Economist\"s coverage of the rally was partially censored by the government. Four lines in the article titled \"Taken to the cleaners – an overzealous government response to an opposition rally\" was inked out. Najib later admitted that censoring parts of the article was a mistake which generated negative publicity.\n\nThe Election Commission of Malaysia (EC) has dismissed Bersih's claims, saying that it has already met the organisation's demands. EC chairman Abdul Aziz Mohd Yusof, who met with Bersih officials in December 2010, slammed Bersih chairman Ambiga's knowledge of voter registration as \"shallow.\" Abdul Aziz also claimed that Bersih had a political agenda, saying that the opposition parties were propping up the organisation. He claimed the opposition were using the EC as a scapegoat for political gain.\n\n\nThe rally has been roundly criticised by government politicians, who claim that the opposition are using the rally, purportedly a non-partisan protest, to advance its own political agenda. Some ministers also accused the rally organisers of attempting a coup d'état.\n\nPrime minister Najib said claims that elections are unfair \"did not make sense,\" adding that the opposition are using instability to their political advantage. He challenged them to take on the government in the polls instead. The Home Minister, Hishamuddin, responding to early reports announcing the rally, criticised public demonstrations in particular. He slammed Bersih for trying to \"instill hatred\" and \"show the world that our country is chaotic.\" Deputy Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said the planned rally is \"undemocratic\" and claimed that it is supported only by a small segment of the population. He also warned of foreign powers taking advantage of instability in Malaysia.\n\nUMNO's information chief Ahmad Maslan said that the event might risk damaging the economy and national security. UMNO Youth leader Khairy Jamaluddin said Anwar's attempts to exert influence over the rally on 19 June was proof that Bersih was \"compromised\" by the opposition. UMNO Youth executive council member Tengku Azman Tengku Zainol Abidin said public rallies should not be held on the streets and that the 2007 Bersih rally \"achieved nothing.\"\n\nAnwar's former political secretary Senator Ezam Mohd Noor called Anwar a hypocrite, saying that Anwar's own PKR party election in 2010 was rife with allegations of manipulation.\n\nPerkasa has criticised the rally for threatening to spread chaos, claiming that the opposition will use the rally to trigger an uprising similar to Egypt and Libya. Perkasa president Ibrahim Ali also threw his support behind the EC, arguing that they had already answered demands for free and fair elections. Ibrahim Ali also warned Chinese community should avoid joining this rally and stay away from it by keeping food at home.\n\n\"Independent\" Member of Parliament Zulkifli Nordin questioned the need for the rally, claiming that democracy was already \"alive,\" citing the result of the previous election as an example. Fellow independent MP Wee Choo Keong hinted that Bersih's cause is \"politically motivated,\" and advised Ambiga to join a political party instead of \"hiding behind a non-governmental organisation.\"\n\nSections of the business community initially condemned the proposed street rally, arguing that business operators would have suffered losses on 9 July, a Saturday. Among the groups opposed to the rally were the KL and Selangor Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Malaysian Associated Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the Executive Taxi Owners' Association.\n\nUMNO encouraged business operators and taxi drivers to sue Bersih for any losses that may be caused by the rally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48258936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48258936", "title": "Debiasing", "text": "Debiasing\n\nDebiasing is the reduction of bias, particularly with respect to judgment and decision making. Biased judgment and decision making is that which systematically deviates from the prescriptions of objective standards such as facts, logic, and rational behavior or prescriptive norms. Biased judgment and decision making exists in consequential domains such as medicine, law, policy, and business, as well as in everyday life. Investors, for example, tend to hold onto falling stocks too long and sell rising stocks too quickly. Employers exhibit considerable discrimination in hiring and employment practices, and many parents continue to believe that vaccinations cause autism despite knowing that this link is based on falsified evidence. At an individual level, people who exhibit less decision bias have more intact social environments, reduced risk of alcohol and drug use, lower childhood delinquency rates, and superior planning and problem solving abilities.\n\nDebiasing can occur within the decision maker. For example, a person may learn or adopt better strategies by which to make judgments and decisions. Debiasing can also occur as a result of changes in external factors, such as changing the incentives relevant to a decision or the manner in which the decision is made.\n\nThere are three general approaches to debiasing judgment and decision making, and the costly errors with which biased judgment and decision making is associated: changing incentives, nudging, and training. Each approach has strengths and weaknesses. For more details, see Morewedge and colleagues (2015).\n\nChanging incentives can be an effective means to debias judgment and decision making. This approach is generally derived from economic theories suggesting that people act in their self-interest by seeking to maximize their utility over their lifetime. Many decision making biases may occur simply because they are more costly to eliminate than to ignore. Making people more accountable for their decisions (increasing incentives), for example, can increase the extent to which they invest cognitive resources in making decisions, leading to less biased decision making when people generally have an idea of how a decision should be made. However, \"bias\" might not be the appropriate term for these types of decision making errors. These \"strategy-based\" errors occur simply because the necessary effort outweighs the benefit. If a person makes a suboptimal choice based on an actual bias, then incentives may exacerbate the issue. An incentive in this case may simply cause the person to perform the suboptimal behavior more enthusiastically.\n\nIncentives can be calibrated to change preferences toward more beneficial behavior. Price cuts on healthy foods increase their consumption in school cafeterias, and soda taxes appear to reduce soda consumption by the public. People often are willing to use incentives to change their behavior through the means of a commitment device. Shoppers, for example, were willing to forego a cash back rebate on healthy food items if they did not increase the percentage of healthy foods in their shopping baskets.\n\nIncentives can backfire when they are miscalibrated or are weaker than social norms that were preventing undesirable behavior. Large incentives can also lead people to choke under pressure.\n\nNudges, changes in information presentation or the manner by which judgments and decisions are elicited, is another means to debiasing. People may choose healthier foods if they are better able to understand their nutritional contents, and may choose lower-calorie meals if they are explicitly asked if they would like to downsize their side orders. Other examples of nudges include changing which option is the default option to which people will be assigned if they do not choose an alternative option, placing a limit on the serving size of soda, or automatically enrolling employees in a retirement savings program.\n\nTraining can effectively debias decision makers over the long term. Training, to date, has received less attention by academics and policy makers than incentives and nudges because initial debiasing training efforts resulted in mixed success (see Fischhoff, 1982 in Kahneman et al.). Decision makers could be effectively debiased through training in specific domains. For example, experts can be trained to make very accurate decisions when decision making entails recognizing patterns and applying appropriate responses in domains such as firefighting, chess, and weather forecasting. Evidence of more general debiasing, across domains and different kinds of problems, however, was not discovered until recently. The reason for the lack of more domain-general debiasing was attributed to experts failing to recognize the underlying \"deep structure\" of problems in different formats and domains. Weather forecasters are able to predict rain with high accuracy, for example, but show the same overconfidence in their answers to basic trivia questions as other people. An exception was graduate training in scientific fields heavily reliant on statistics such as psychology.\n\nExperiments by Morewedge and colleagues (2015) have found interactive computer games and instructional videos can result in long-term debiasing at a general level. In a series of experiments, training with interactive computer games that provided players with personalized feedback, mitigating strategies, and practice, reduced six cognitive biases by more than 30% immediately and by more than 20% as long as three months later. The biased reduced were anchoring, bias blind spot, confirmation bias, fundamental attribution error, projection bias, and representativeness.\n\nTraining in reference class forecasting may also improve outcomes. Reference class forecasting is a method for systematically debiasing estimates and decisions, based on what Daniel Kahneman calls the outside view. As pointed out by Kahneman in Thinking, Fast and Slow (p. 252), one of the reasons reference class forecasting is effective for debasing is that, in contrast to conventional forecasting methods, it takes into account the so-called \"unknown unknowns.\" According to Kahneman, reference class forecasting is effective for debiasing and \"has come a long way\" in practical implementation since he originally proposed the idea with Amos Tversky (p. 251).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51016663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51016663", "title": "Differential forms on a Riemann surface", "text": "Differential forms on a Riemann surface\n\nIn mathematics, differential forms on a Riemann surface are an important special case of the general theory of differential forms on smooth manifolds, distinguished by the fact that the conformal structure on the Riemann surface intrinsically defines a Hodge star operator on 1-forms (or differentials) without specifying a Riemannian metric. This allows the use of Hilbert space techniques for studying function theory on the Riemann surface and in particular for the construction of harmonic and holomorphic differentials with prescribed singularities. These methods were first used by in his variational approach to the Dirichlet principle, making rigorous the arguments proposed by Riemann. Later found a direct approach using his method of orthogonal projection, a precursor of the modern theory of elliptic differential operators and Sobolev spaces. These techniques were originally applied to prove the uniformization theorem and its generalization to planar Riemann surfaces. Later they supplied the analytic foundations for the harmonic integrals of . This article covers general results on differential forms on a Riemann surface that do not rely on any choice of Riemannian structure.\n\nOn a Riemann surface the Hodge star is defined on 1-forms by the local formula\n\nIt is well-defined because it is invariant under holomorphic changes of coordinate.\n\nIndeed, if is holomorphic as a function of ,\nthen by the Cauchy–Riemann equations and . In the new coordinates\n\nso that\n\nproving the claimed invariance.\n\nNote that for 1-forms and \n\nIn particular if then\n\nNote that in standard coordinates\n\nRecalling that\n\nso that\n\nThe decomposition formula_9 is independent of the choice of local coordinate. The 1-forms with only a formula_10 component are called (1,0) forms; those with only a formula_11 component are called (0,1) forms. The operators formula_12 and formula_13 are called the Dolbeault operators.\n\nIt follows that\n\nThe Dolbeault operators can similarly be defined on 1-forms and as zero on 2-forms. They have the properties\n\nOn a Riemann surface the Poincaré lemma states that every closed 1-form or 2-form is locally exact. Thus if \"ω\" is a smooth 1-form with then in some open neighbourhood of a given point there is a smooth function \"f\" such that in that neighbourhood; and for any smooth 2-form Ω there is a smooth 1-form \"ω\" defined in some open neighbourhood of a given point such that in that neighbourhood.\nIf is a closed 1-form on , then . If then and . Set\n\nso that . Then must satisfy and . The right hand side here is independent of \"x\" since its partial derivative with respect to \"x\" is 0. So\n\nand hence\n\nSimilarly, if then with . Thus a solution is given by and\n\nComment on differential forms with compact support. Note that if \"ω\" has compact support, so vanishes outside some smaller rectangle with and , then the same is true for the solution \"f\"(\"x\",\"y\"). So the Poincaré lemma for 1-forms holds with this additional conditions of compact support.\n\nA similar statement is true or 2-forms; but, since there is some choices for the solution, a little more care has to be taken in making those choices.\n\nIn fact if Ω has compact support on and if furthermore , then with \"ω\" a 1-form of compact support on . Indeed, Ω must have support in some smaller rectangle with and . So vanishes for or and for or . Let \"h\"(\"y\") be a smooth function supported in (\"c\",\"d\") with . Set : it is a smooth function supported in (\"a\",\"b\"). Hence is smooth and supported in . It now satisfies . Finally set\n\nBoth \"P\" and \"Q\" are smooth and supported in with and . Hence is a smooth 1-form supported in with\n\nIf Ω is a continuous 2-form of compact support on a Riemann surface \"X\", its support \"K\" can be covered by finitely many coordinate charts \"U\" and there is a partition of unity χ of smooth non-negative functions with compact support such that ∑ χ = 1 on a neighbourhood of \"K\". Then the integral of Ω is defined by\n\nwhere the integral over \"U\" has its usual definition in local coordinates. The integral is independent of the choices here.\n\nIf Ω has the local representation \"f\"(\"x\",\"y\") \"dx\" ∧ \"dy\", then |Ω| is the density |\"f\"(\"x\",\"y\")| \"dx\" ∧ \"dy\", which is well defined and satisfies |∫ Ω| ≤ ∫ |Ω|. If Ω is a non-negative continuous density, not necessarily of compact support, its integral is defined by\n\nIf Ω is any continuous 2-form it is integrable if ∫ |Ω| < ∞. In this case, if ∫ |Ω| = lim ∫ ψ |Ω|, then ∫ Ω can be defined as lim ∫ ψ Ω. The integrable continuous 2-forms form a complex normed space with norm ||Ω|| = ∫ |Ω|.\n\nIf \"ω\" is a 1-form on a Riemann surface \"X\" and \"γ\"(\"t\") for is a smooth path in \"X\", then the mapping \"γ\" induces a 1-form \"γ\"∗\"ω\" on [\"a\",\"b\"]. The integral of \"ω\" along \"γ\" is defined by\n\nThis definition extends to piecewise smooth paths \"γ\" by dividing the path up into the finitely many segments on which it is smooth. In local coordinates if and then\n\nso that\n\nNote that if the 1-form \"ω\" is exact on some connected open set \"U\", so that for some smooth function \"f\" on \"U\" (unique up to a constant), and \"γ\"(\"t\"), , is a smooth path in \"U\", then\n\nThis depends only on the difference of the values of \"f\" at the endpoints of the curve, so is independent of the choice of \"f\". By the Poincaré lemma, every closed 1-form is locally exact, so this allows ∫ ω to be computed as a sum of differences of this kind and for the integral of closed 1-forms to be extended to continuous paths:\n\nMonodromy theorem. If \"ω\" is a closed 1-form, the integral can be extended to any continuous path \"γ\"(\"t\"), so that it is invariant under any homotopy of paths keeping the end points fixed. \n\nThe same argument shows that a homotopy between closed continuous loops does not change their integrals over closed 1-forms. Since , the integral of an exact form over a closed loop vanishes. \nConversely if the integral of a closed 1-form \"ω\" over any closed loop vanishes, then the 1-form must be exact.\n\nA closed 1-form is exact if and only if its integral around any piecewise smooth or continuous Jordan curve vanishes.\n\nThe above argument also shows that given a continuous Jordan curve \"γ\"(\"t\"), there is a finite set of simple smooth Jordan curves \"γ\"(\"t\") with nowhere zero derivatives such that\n\nfor any closed 1-form \"ω\". Thus to check exactness of a closed form it suffices to show that the vanishing of the integral around any regular closed curve, i.e. a simple smooth Jordan curve with nowhere vanishing derivative.\n\nThe same methods show that any continuous loop on a Riemann surface is homotopic to a smooth loop with nowhere zero derivative.\n\nIf \"U\" is a bounded region in the complex plane with boundary consisting of piecewise smooth curves and \"ω\" is a 1-form defined on a neighbourhood of the closure of \"U\", then the Green–Stokes formula states that\n\nIn particular if \"ω\" is a 1-form of compact support on C then\n\nsince the formula may be applied to a large disk containing the support of ω.\n\nSimilar formulas hold on a Riemann surface \"X\" and can be deduced from the classical formulas using partitions of unity. Thus if is a connected region with compact closure and piecewise smooth boundary ∂\"U\" and \"ω\" is a 1-form defined on a neighbourhood of the closure of \"U\", then the Green–Stokes formula states that\n\nMoreover, if \"ω\" is a 1-form of compact support on \"X\" then\n\nTo prove the second formula take a partition of unity \"ψ\" supported in coordinate charts covering the support of \"ω\". Then , by the planar result. Similarly to prove the first formula it suffices to show that\n\nwhen \"ψ\" is a smooth function compactly supported in some coordinate patch. If the coordinate patch avoids the boundary curves, both sides vanish by the second formula above. Otherwise it can be assumed that the coordinate patch is a disk, the boundary of which cuts the curve transversely at two points. The same will be true for a slightly smaller disk containing the support of \"ψ\". Completing the curve to a Jordan curve by adding part of the boundary of the smaller disk, the formula reduces to the planar Green-Stokes formula.\n\nThe Green–Stokes formula implies an adjoint relation for the Laplacian on functions defined as Δ\"f\" = −\"d\"∗\"df\". This gives a 2-form, given in local coordinates by the formula\n\nThen if \"f\" and \"g\" are smooth and the closure of \"U\" is compact\n\nMoreover, if \"f\" or \"g\" has compact support then\n\nTheorem. If \"γ\" is a continuous Jordan curve on a Riemann surface \"X\", there is a smooth closed 1-form \"α\" of compact support such that for any closed smooth 1-form \"ω\" on \"X\".\n\nCorollary 1. A closed smooth 1-form \"ω\" is exact if and only if for all smooth 1-forms \"α\" of compact support.\n\nCorollary 2. If \"γ\" is a continuous closed curve on a Riemann surface \"X\", there is a smooth closed 1-form \"α\" of compact support such that for any closed smooth 1-form \"ω\" on \"X\". The form \"α\" is unique up to adding an exact form and can be taken to have support in any open neighbourhood of the image of \"γ\".\n\nThe intersection number of two closed curves γ, γ in a Riemann surface \"X\" can be defined analytically by the formula\n\nwhere α and α are smooth 1-forms of compact support corresponding to γ and γ. From the definition it follows that . Since α can be taken to have its support in a neighbourhood of the image of γ, it follows that if γ and γ are disjoint. By definition it depends only on the homotopy classes of γ and γ.\n\nMore generally the intersection number is always an integer and counts the number of times \"with signs\" that the two curves intersect. A crossing at a point is a positive or negative crossing according to whether \"d\"γ ∧ \"d\"γ has the same or opposite sign to , for a local holomorphic parameter \"z\" = \"x\" + \"iy\".\n\nA holomorphic 1-form ω is one that in local coordinates is given by an expression \"f\"(\"z\") \"dz\" with \"f\" holomorphic. Since formula_43 it follows that \"d\"ω = 0, so any holomorphic 1-form is closed. Moreover, since ∗\"dz\" = \"i\" \"dz\", ω must satisfy ∗ω = \"i\"ω. These two conditions characterize holomorphic 1-forms. For if ω is closed, locally it can be written as \"dg\" for some \"g\", The condition ∗\"dg\" = \"i\" \"dg\" forces formula_44, so that \"g\" is holomorphic and \"dg\" = \"g\" '(\"z\") \"dz\", so that ω is holomorphic.\n\nLet ω = \"f\" \"dz\" be a holomorphic 1-form. Write ω = ω + \"i\"ω with ω and ω real. Then \"d\"ω = 0 and \"d\"ω = 0; and since ∗ω = \"i\"ω, ∗ω = −ω. Hence \"d\"∗ω = 0. This process can clearly be reversed, so that there is a one-one correspondence between holomorphic 1-forms and real 1-forms ω satisfying \"d\"ω = 0 and \"d\"∗ω = 0. Under this correspondence, ω is the real part of ω while ω is given by ω= ω + \"i\"∗ω. Such forms ω are called harmonic 1-forms. By definition ω is harmonic if and only if ∗ω is harmonic.\n\nSince holomorphic 1-forms locally have the form \"df\" with \"f\" a holomorphic function and since the real part of a holomorphic function is harmonic, harmonic 1-forms locally have the form \"dh\" with \"h\" a harmonic function. Conversely if ω can be written in this way locally, \"d\"∗ω = \"d\"∗\"dh\" = (\"h\" + \"h\") \"dx\"∧\"dy\" so that \"h\" is harmonic.\n\nRemark. The definition of harmonic functions and 1-forms is intrinsic and only relies on the underlying Riemann surface structure. If, however, a conformal metric is chosen on the Riemann surface (see below), the adjoint \"d\"* of \"d\" can be defined and the Hodge star operation extended to functions and 2-forms. The Hodge Laplacian can be defined on \"k\"-forms as ∆ = \"dd\"* +\"d\"*\"d\" and then a function \"f\" or a 1-form ω is harmonic if and only if it is annihilated by the Hodge Laplacian, i.e. ∆\"f\" = 0 or ∆ω = 0. The metric structure, however, is not required for the application to the uniformization of simply connected or planar Riemann surfaces.\n\nThe theory of Sobolev spaces on can be found in , an account which is followed in several later textbooks such as and . It provides an analytic framework for studying function theory on the torus C/Z+\"i\" Z = R / Z using Fourier series, which are just eigenfunction expansions for the Laplacian . The theory developed here essentially covers tori C / Λ where Λ is a lattice in C. Although there is a corresponding theory of Sobolev spaces on any compact Riemann surface, it is elementary in this case, because it reduces to harmonic analysis on the compact Abelian group . Classical approaches to Weyl's lemma use harmonic analysis on the non-compact Abelian group C = R, i.e. the methods of Fourier analysis, in particular convolution operators and the fundamental solution of the Laplacian.\n\nLet T = {(\"e\",\"e\": \"x\", \"y\" ∈ [0,2π)} = R/Z = C/Λ where Λ = Z + \"i\" Z.\nFor λ = \"m\" + \"i\" \"n\" ≅ (\"m\",\"n\") in Λ, set . Furthermore, set \"D\"= -\"i\"∂/∂\"x\" and \"D\" = -\"i\"∂/∂\"y\". For α = (\"p\",\"q\") set \"D\" =(\"D\") (\"D\"), a differential operator of total degree |α| = \"p\" + \"q\". Thus , where . The (\"e\") form an orthonormal basis in C(T) for the inner product , so that .\n\nFor \"f\" in C(\"T\"') and \"k\" an integer, define the \"k\"th Sobolev norm by\n\nThe associated inner product\n\nmakes C(T) into an inner product space. Let \"H\"(T) be its Hilbert space completion. It can be described equivalently as the Hilbert space completion of the space of trigonometric polynomials—that is finite sums —with respect to the \"k\"th Sobolev norm, so that \"H\"(T) = {∑ \"a\" \"e\" : ∑ |\"a\"|(1 + |λ|) < ∞} with inner product\n\nAs explained below, the elements in the intersection \"H\"(T) = formula_47 \"H\"(T) are exactly the smooth functions on T; elements in the union \"H\"(T) = formula_48 \"H\"(T) are just distributions on T (sometimes referred to as \"periodic distributions\" on R).\n\nThe following is a (non-exhaustive) list of properties of the Sobolev spaces.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8452342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8452342", "title": "Doctrine of indivisibility", "text": "Doctrine of indivisibility\n\nThe doctrine of indivisibility (or indivisibility doctrine) was a legal doctrine in United States copyright law, which held that a copyright was a single, indivisible right that its owner could only assign as a whole. The doctrine was founded upon the policy concern that a defendant alleged to have infringed a single work might find himself facing claims from multiple plaintiffs, all claiming copyright in that same work. Despite the indivisibility doctrine, a copyright holder could still effectively assign certain rights. The assignees of those rights were held to be \"mere licensees.\"\n\nThis doctrine could yield a harsh result for an exclusive licensee in a work. If a third party infringed the work, the copyright holder had no motivation to file suit---the work was no longer marketable. So courts allowed exclusive licensees to compulsively join the copyright holder as a plaintiff in such suits. Non-exclusive licensees could not forcefully join copyright holders, on the theory that in those cases, the work was still marketable and the copyright holder therefore had an interest in protecting his rights.\n\nIn the case \"Goodis v. United Artists Television, Inc.\", 425 F.2d 397, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that the doctrine of indivisibility could not operate to wholly deprive an author of his copyright when a \"mere licensee\" secured a copyright in a collective work but the author never secured a separate copyright on his own.\n\nThe doctrine of indivisibility was expressly eliminated in the Copyright Act of 1976. Assignees of rights in a copyrighted work now have standing to directly file suit against infringers.\n"}
{"id": "13075744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13075744", "title": "Drive theory", "text": "Drive theory\n\nIn psychology, a drive theory or drive doctrine is a theory that attempts to define, analyze, or classify the psychological drives. A drive is an \"excitatory state produced by a homeostatic disturbance\", an instinctual need that has the power of driving the behaviour of an individual.\n\nDrive theory is based on the principle that organisms are born with certain psychological needs and that a negative state of tension is created when these needs are not satisfied. When a need is satisfied, drive is reduced and the organism returns to a state of homeostasis and relaxation. According to the theory, drive tends to increase over time and operates on a feedback control system, much like a thermostat.\n\nIn psychoanalysis, drive theory ( or \"\") refers to the theory of drives, motivations, or instincts, that have clear objects. When an internal imbalance is detected by homeostatic mechanisms, a drive to restore balance is produced. In 1927, Sigmund Freud said that a drive theory was what was lacking most in psychoanalysis. He was opposed to systematics in psychology, rejecting it as a form of paranoia, and instead classified drives with dichotomies like Eros/Thanatos drives, the drives toward life and death, respectively, and sexual/ego drives.\n\nFreud's \"Civilization and Its Discontents\" was published in Germany in 1930, when the rise of fascism in that country was well under way, and the warnings of a second European war were leading to opposing calls for rearmament and pacifism. Against this background, Freud wrote \"In face of the destructive forces unleashed, now it may be expected that the other of the two 'heavenly forces,' eternal Eros, will put forth his strength so as to maintain himself alongside of his equally immortal adversary.\"\n\nIn 1947, Hungarian psychiatrist and psychologist Leopold Szondi aimed instead at a systematic drive theory. Szondi Drive Diagram has been described as a revolutionary addition to psychology, and as paving the way for a theoretical psychiatry and a psychoanalytical anthropology.\n\nIn early attachment theory, behavioural drive reduction was proposed by Dollard and Miller (1950) as an explanation of the mechanisms behind early attachment in infants. Behavioural drive reduction theory suggests that infants are born with innate drives, such as hunger and thirst, which only the caregiver, usually the mother, can reduce. Through a process of classical conditioning, the infant learns to associate the mother with the satisfaction of reduced drive and is thus able to form a key attachment bond. However, this theory is challenged by the work done by Harry Harlow, particularly the experiments involving the maternal separation of rhesus monkeys, which indicate that comfort possesses greater motivational value than hunger.\n\nIn social psychology, drive theory was used by Robert Zajonc in 1965 as an explanation of the phenomenon of social facilitation. The audience effect notes that, in some cases, the presence of a passive audience will facilitate the better performance of a task, while in other cases the presence of an audience will inhibit the performance of a task. Zajonc's drive theory suggests that the variable determining direction of performance is whether the task is composed of a correct dominant response (that is, the task is perceived as being subjectively easy to the individual) or an incorrect dominant response (perceived as being subjectively difficult).\n\nIn the presence of a passive audience, an individual is in a heightened state of arousal. Increased arousal, or stress, causes the individual to enact behaviours that form dominant responses, since an individual's dominant response is the most likely response, given the skills which are available. If the dominant response is correct, then social presence enhances performance of the task. However, if the dominant response is incorrect, social presence produces an impaired performance.\n\nSuch behaviour was first noticed by Triplett (1898) while observing the cyclists who were racing together versus cyclists who were racing alone. It was found that the mere presence of other cyclists produced greater performance. A similar effect was observed by Chen (1937) in ants building colonies. However, it was not until Zajonc investigated this behaviour in the 1960s that any empirical explanation for the audience effect was pursued.\n\nZajonc's drive theory is based on an experiment involving the investigation of the effect of social facilitation in cockroaches. Zajonc devised a study in which individual cockroaches were released into a tube, at the end of which there was a light. In the presence of other cockroaches as spectators, cockroaches were observed to achieve a significantly faster time in reaching the light than those in the control, no-spectator group. However, when cockroaches in the same conditions were given a maze to negotiate, performance was impaired in the spectator condition, demonstrating that incorrect dominant responses in the presence of an audience impair performance.\n\nCottrell's evaluation apprehension model later refined this theory to include yet another variable in the mechanisms of social facilitation. He suggested that the correctness of dominant responses only plays a role in social facilitation when there is an expectation of social reward or punishment based on performance. His study differs in design from Zajonc's as he introduced a separate condition in which participants were given tasks to perform in the presence of an audience that was blindfolded, and thus unable to evaluate the participant's performance. It was found that no social facilitation effect occurred, and hence the anticipation of performance evaluation must play a role in social facilitation. Evaluation apprehension, however, is only key in human social facilitation and is not observed in other animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "48936466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48936466", "title": "Flyby (spaceflight)", "text": "Flyby (spaceflight)\n\nFlyby is a spacecraft concept whereby one object passes in closer proximity to another, usually a spacecraft maneuver in space exploration. Spacecraft which are specifically designed for this purpose are known as flyby spacecraft, although the term has also been used in regard to asteroid flybys of Earth for example. Two common goals are for exploration or for a gravity assist.\n\nOne important subconcept of a flyby in spaceflight, is the time and distance of closest approach. This distance is often reported, along with a time in regards to flybys in space.\n\nFlyby maneuvers can be conducted with a planet or non-planet object such as a comet.\n\nPlanetary flybys have occurred with Mars or Earth for example:\n\nAn example of a comet flyby is when International Cometary Explorer (formerly ISEE-3) passed about 4800 miles (7,800 kilometers) from the nucleus of Comet Giacobini-Zinner in September 1985.\n\nThe \"New Horizons\" spacecraft is planning to flyby the Kuiper belt object 2014 MU69 on New Year's Day 2019, after its successful flyby of the dwarf planet Pluto in 2015.\n\nAnother application of the flyby is of Earth's Moon, usually called a \"lunar flyby\".\n\nIn regards to Mars flybys, a related concept is a Mars flyby rendezvous, where a spacecraft does not enter orbit but rendezvous before or after a flyby of the planet with another spacecraft. Mars flyby rendezvous was evaluated at NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center in the 1960s. At that time NASA developed designs for a combination of a Mars lander, short-stay surface habitat, and ascent vehicle called a Mars Excursion Module (MEM); the ascent stage performed the rendezvous with another spacecraft that did a flyby of Mars without entering orbit or landing. Compared to MOR, a flyby rendezvous means one spacecraft does not have to orbit Mars, so the resources needed on a return journey to Earth are not taken in and out of Mars orbit for example. (See also Mars cycler)\n\nIn 2018, the twin Mars Cube One performed a flyby to relay communication for InSight lander EDL (they were launched towards Mars with the cruise stage carrying the InSight lander). Both MarCOs reached Mars and successfully relayed data during the Entry, Descent, and Landing phase of Insight on November 26, 2018.\n\n\"Cassini-Huygens\" (launched 1997), which orbited Saturn (from 2004-2017) performed flybys of many of Saturn's moons including Titan. \"Cassini-Huygen\"s had its first flyby of Titan in October 2004. For further examples of \"Cassini\" flybys of Saturn's moons see Timeline of \"Cassini-Huygens\".\n\nAnimation of the \"Cassini\" spacecraft trajectory around Saturn over 10 years, and during this time it passed closely by many moons of Saturn:\n\nFlyby is also commonly used to describe when, for example, an asteroid approaches and coasts by the Earth.\n\nThis was also the term for when a comet did a flyby of Mars in 2014.\n\nP/2016 BA14 was radar imaged at distance of 2.2 million miles (9 lunar distances) from Earth in 2016, during its flyby. This enabled the size of the nucleus to be calculated to about 1 km in diameter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47126293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47126293", "title": "Fountain Archive", "text": "Fountain Archive\n\nThe Fountain Archive (also called The Fountain Archives or Fountain Archive Project) is a processual art project of the French conceptual artist Saâdane Afif which started in 2008/ 2009. The project includes an ongoing series of framed pages which contain one or several reproductions of the work \"Fountain\" by Marcel Duchamp. Here Afif uses the concept of the Objet trouvés (found object) and tears off the pages from different publications. For each publication and pages Afif normally makes only one piece for the \"Fountain Archives\", which is created as a work of art. \n\nThe \"Fountain Archive\" also includes a bookshelf which stores all used publications of the project.\n\nIn 2008 Saâdane Afif started to collect publications which contain reproductions of the work \"Fountain\" (1917) by Marcel Duchamp. After he was distinguished with the Marcel Duchamp Prize in 2009, Afif began the \"Fountain Archive\". At present the \"Fountain Archive\" contains over 600 images of Duchamp’s porcelain urinal. In this work, Afif collects and archives every publication in which he finds a reproduction of Duchamp's urinal. As a “found object” every page containing the picture of the \"Fountain\" is torn out and then carefully framed. The frame (sometimes with a colored background), used for its preservation and highlight ornament purposes, is also part of the making process. Every step of the archiving follows meticulous rules which participate entirely in the making process of these works of art. For each publication and page Afif normally makes only one piece for the \"Fountain Archive\".\n\nIf a publication contains images of Duchamp’s \"Fountain\" on several pages, all of them are torn off and form together a polyptych. When found, the publications are registered with an archive number ranging from FA 0001 potentially to infinite. Afif intended to continue the Series of Archives until its 1001st. The publications (sans \"Fountain\") are then stored in a bookshelf in the studio of the artist. The bookshelf creates an archive around Duchamp’s \"Fountain\", from which the common initiator has been removed: “an archive without its object“. The \"Fountain Archives\" has been presented in various exhibitions throughout the world.\n\nSince 2013, some publications presenting this project by Afif happened to reproduce the work \"Fountain\" of Duchamp. Those specific documents are also incorporated in the \"Fountain Archives\" project. But they are treated as special objects as they are doubled in order to testify of a historical echo, mark a mise en abyme. In case of the mise en abyme – a publication includes an image of Afif's \"Fountain Archive\" project – there is also one exception to the strict rule that each publication produced only a unique, singular work of the \"Fountain Archive\". These pages underline an evolution in the development and perception of the \"Fountain Archives\" as an artwork. They are stored under a specific section titled “Augmented”, and they are building a step-by-step archive within the archive. Therefore, two copies of the publications (sans \"Fountain\") enter the archive bookshelf and two editions of the work are made.\n\nIn 2013 a group of 101 \"Fountain Archives\" were shown in the exhibition “The Present Order is the Disorder of the Future” based in the Museum Kurhaus Kleve. Referring to the presentation a first text, by the art historic Valentina Vlasic, about the \"Fountain Archive\" was published in the exhibition catalogue. This catalogue contribution included a picture of Duchamp’s \"Fountain\", therefore Afif tears the page off and makes an augmented fountain archive out of it. This said Klever Fountain, with the description FA 0366, is based in the collection of the Museum Kurhaus Kleve as a permanent loan.\n\nThe German art historian Eva Huttenlauch named Marcel Duchamp as Afif’s guiding star, he looked up as his ideal self. Many of Afif’s concepts, like the \"Fountain Archive\", rest on the foundations Duchamp laid.\n\nThe Austrian art historian Valentina Vlasic termed Afif’s \"Fountain Archive\" as a repetition of the key-moment of the ready-made, the fundamental act of selecting which just as it did at that time for Duchamp, represents a complete artistic achievement. Afif does not do this with real objects, like a normal commercial one, but he uses the artistic object of the \"Fountain\" as an illustration from publications. As a charming witticism, Vlasic predicated that there is in addition the fact that Afif leads Duchamp’s \"Fountain\" in a new way back into the museum, a site it had to leave about one hundred years ago through being excluded from the exhibition.\nFor the art historian Elena Filipovic, the high importance of Duchamp’s \"Fountain\" in art history accrued especially because of the reason that the artist understood very well that the reproduction, display, framing, dissemination, and reception of an artwork not only constructs its value and meaning, but also help determine how and if it enters history at all. These comprehension stands also for the background of Saâdane Afifs project of the \"Fountain Archives\". After “R.Mutt“ or Marcel Duchamp Fillipovic sees in Afif another person which adopts the white urinal and also conducts the construction of an icon. The \"Fountain Archives\", which contain an image of a \"Fountain Archive\" (mise en abyme), are termed as a “remake” by Filipovic. She compares especially these works with the process of signification of Duchamp’s \"Fountain\" in art history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15532763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15532763", "title": "Gay pride", "text": "Gay pride\n\nGay pride or LGBT pride is the positive stance against discrimination and violence toward lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people to promote their self-affirmation, dignity, equality rights, increase their visibility as a social group, build community, and celebrate sexual diversity and gender variance. Pride, as opposed to shame and social stigma, is the predominant outlook that bolsters most LGBT rights movements throughout the world. Pride has lent its name to LGBT-themed organizations, institutes, foundations, book titles, periodicals and even a cable TV station and the Pride Library.\n\nRanging from solemn to carnivalesque, pride events are typically held during LGBT Pride Month or some other period that commemorates a turning point in a country's LGBT history, for example Moscow Pride in May for the anniversary of Russia's 1993 decriminalization of homosexuality. Some pride events include LGBT pride parades and marches, rallies, commemorations, community days, dance parties, and large festivals, such as Sydney Mardi Gras, which spans several weeks.\n\nCommon symbols of pride are the rainbow or pride flag, the lowercase Greek letter lambda (λ), the pink triangle and the black triangle, these latter two reclaimed from use as badges of shame in Nazi concentration camps.\n\nThe 1950s and 1960s in the United States was an extremely repressive legal and social period for LGBT people. In this context American homophile organizations such as the Daughters of Bilitis and the Mattachine Society coordinated some of the earliest demonstrations of the modern LGBT rights movement. These two organizations in particular carried out pickets called \"Annual Reminders\" to inform and remind Americans that LGBT people did not receive basic civil rights protections. Annual Reminders began in 1965 and took place each July 4 at Independence Hall in Philadelphia.\n\nThe anti-LGBT discourse of these times equated both male and female homosexuality with mental illness. Inspired by Stokely Carmichael's \"Black is Beautiful\", Gay civil rights pioneer and participant in the Annual Reminders Frank Kameny originated the slogan \"Gay is Good\" in 1968 to counter social stigma and personal feelings of guilt and shame.\n\nEarly on the morning of Saturday, June 28, 1969, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning persons rioted following a police raid on the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar at 43 Christopher Street, New York City. This riot and further protests and rioting over the following nights were the watershed moment in modern LGBT rights movement and the impetus for organizing LGBT pride marches on a much larger public scale.\n\nOn November 2, 1969, Craig Rodwell, his partner Fred Sargeant, Ellen Broidy, and Linda Rhodes proposed the first pride march to be held in New York City by way of a resolution at the Eastern Regional Conference of Homophile Organizations (ERCHO) meeting in Philadelphia.\n\"That the Annual Reminder, in order to be more relevant, reach a greater number of people, and encompass the ideas and ideals of the larger struggle in which we are engaged—that of our fundamental human rights—be moved both in time and location.\n\n<br>We propose that a demonstration be held annually on the last Saturday in June in New York City to commemorate the 1969 spontaneous demonstrations on Christopher Street and this demonstration be called CHRISTOPHER STREET LIBERATION DAY. No dress or age regulations shall be made for this demonstration.\n\n<br>We also propose that we contact Homophile organizations throughout the country and suggest that they hold parallel demonstrations on that day. We propose a nationwide show of support.\n\nAll attendees to the ERCHO meeting in Philadelphia voted for the march except for Mattachine Society of New York, which abstained. Members of the Gay Liberation Front (GLF) attended the meeting and were seated as guests of Rodwell's group, Homophile Youth Movement in Neighborhoods (HYMN).\n\nMeetings to organize the march began in early January at Rodwell's apartment in 350 Bleecker Street. At first there was difficulty getting some of the major New York City organizations like Gay Activists Alliance (GAA) to send representatives. Craig Rodwell and his partner Fred Sargeant, Ellen Broidy, Michael Brown, Marty Nixon, and Foster Gunnison of Mattachine made up the core group of the CSLD Umbrella Committee (CSLDUC). For initial funding, Gunnison served as treasurer and sought donations from the national homophile organizations and sponsors, while Sargeant solicited donations via the Oscar Wilde Memorial Bookshop customer mailing list and Nixon worked to gain financial support from GLF in his position as treasurer for that organization. Other mainstays of the organizing committee were Judy Miller, Jack Waluska, Steve Gerrie and Brenda Howard of GLF. Believing that more people would turn out for the march on a Sunday, and so as to mark the date of the start of the Stonewall uprising, the CSLDUC scheduled the date for the first march for Sunday, June 28, 1970. With Dick Leitsch's replacement as president of Mattachine NY by Michael Kotis in April 1970, opposition to the march by Mattachine ended.\n\nBrenda Howard is known as the \"Mother of Pride\" for her work in coordinating the march. Howard also originated the idea for a week-long series of events around Pride Day which became the genesis of the annual LGBT Pride celebrations that are now held around the world every June. Additionally, Howard along with fellow LGBT Activists Robert A. Martin (aka Donny the Punk) and L. Craig Schoonmaker are credited with popularizing the word \"Pride\" to describe these festivities. As LGBT rights activist Tom Limoncelli put it, \"The next time someone asks you why LGBT Pride marches exist or why [LGBT] Pride Month is June tell them 'A bisexual woman named Brenda Howard thought it should be.'\"\nChristopher Street Liberation Day on June 28, 1970 marked the first anniversary of the Stonewall riots with an assembly on Christopher Street and the first Gay Pride march in U.S. history, covering the 51 blocks to Central Park. The march took less than half the scheduled time due to excitement, but also due to wariness about walking through the city with gay banners and signs. Although the parade permit was delivered only two hours before the start of the march, the marchers encountered little resistance from onlookers. \"The New York Times\" reported (on the front page) that the marchers took up the entire street for about 15 city blocks. Reporting by \"The Village Voice\" was positive, describing \"the out-front resistance that grew out of the police raid on the Stonewall Inn one year ago\".\n\nOn the same weekend gay activist groups on the West Coast of the United States held a march in Los Angeles and a march and \"Gay-in\" in San Francisco.\n\nOne day earlier, on Saturday, June 27, 1970, Chicago Gay Liberation organized a march from Washington Square Park (\"Bughouse Square\") to the Water Tower at the intersection of Michigan and Chicago avenues, which was the route originally planned, and then many of the participants extemporaneously marched on to the Civic Center (now Richard J. Daley) Plaza. The date was chosen because the Stonewall events began on the last Saturday of June and because organizers wanted to reach the maximum number of Michigan Avenue shoppers. Subsequent Chicago parades have been held on the last Sunday of June, coinciding with the date of many similar parades elsewhere.\n\nThe next year, Gay Pride marches took place in Boston, Dallas, Milwaukee, London, Paris, West Berlin, and Stockholm. By 1972 the participating cities included Atlanta, Brighton, Buffalo, Detroit, Washington D.C., Miami, and Philadelphia, as well as San Francisco.\n\nFrank Kameny soon realized the pivotal change brought by the Stonewall riots. An organizer of gay activism in the 1950s, he was used to persuasion, trying to convince heterosexuals that gay people were no different than they were. When he and other people marched in front of the White House, the State Department and Independence Hall only five years earlier, their objective was to look as if they could work for the U.S. government. Ten people marched with Kameny then, and they alerted no press to their intentions. Although he was stunned by the upheaval by participants in the Annual Reminder in 1969, he later observed, \"By the time of Stonewall, we had fifty to sixty gay groups in the country. A year later there was at least fifteen hundred. By two years later, to the extent that a count could be made, it was twenty-five hundred.\"\n\nSimilar to Kameny's regret at his own reaction to the shift in attitudes after the riots, Randy Wicker came to describe his embarrassment as \"one of the greatest mistakes of his life\". The image of gays retaliating against police, after so many years of allowing such treatment to go unchallenged, \"stirred an unexpected spirit among many homosexuals\". Kay Lahusen, who photographed the marches in 1965, stated, \"Up to 1969, this movement was generally called the homosexual or homophile movement... Many new activists consider the Stonewall uprising the birth of the gay liberation movement. Certainly it was the birth of gay pride on a massive scale.\"\n\nIn the 1980s there was a major cultural shift in the Stonewall Riot commemorations. The previous loosely organized, grassroots marches and parades were taken over by more organized and less radical elements of the gay community. The marches began dropping \"Liberation\" and \"Freedom\" from their names under pressure from more conservative members of the community, replacing them with the philosophy of \"Gay Pride\" (in the more liberal San Francisco, the name of the gay parade and celebration was not changed from \"Gay Freedom Day Parade\" to \"Gay Pride Day Parade\" until 1994). The Greek lambda symbol and the pink triangle, which had been revolutionary symbols of the Gay Liberation Movement, were tidied up and incorporated into the Gay Pride, or Pride, movement, providing some symbolic continuity with its more radical beginnings. The pink triangle was also the inspiration for the homomonument in Amsterdam, commemorating all gay men and lesbians who have been subjected to persecution because of their homosexuality.\n\nThe month of June was chosen for LGBT Pride Month to commemorate the Stonewall riots, which occurred at the end of June 1969. As a result, many pride events are held during this month to recognize the impact LGBT people have had in the world. Brenda Howard is known as the \"Mother of Pride\", for her work in coordinating the first LGBT Pride march, and she also originated the idea for a week-long series of events around Pride Day which became the genesis of the annual LGBT Pride celebrations that are now held around the world every June. Additionally, Howard along with fellow LGBT rights activists Robert A. Martin (aka Donny the Punk) and L. Craig Schoonmaker are credited with popularizing the word \"Pride\" to describe these festivities. As LGBT rights activist Tom Limoncelli put it, \"The next time someone asks you why LGBT Pride marches exist or why [LGBT] Pride Month is June tell them 'A bisexual woman named Brenda Howard thought it should be.'\"\nOn several occasions, the President of the United States has officially declared a Pride Month. First, President Bill Clinton declared June \"Gay & Lesbian Pride Month\" on June 11, 1999 and in 2000. Then, in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016, President Barack Obama declared June LGBT Pride Month.\n\nBeginning in 2012, Google displayed some LGBT-related search results with different rainbow-colored patterns each year during June. In 2017, Google also included rainbow coloured streets on Google Maps to display Gay Pride marches occurring across the world.\n\nFrom both outside and inside the LGBT community, there is criticism and protest against pride events. Bob Christie's documentary \"\" evaluates gay pride events in different countries within the context of local opposition.\n\nIn August 2011, Sao Paulo city alderman of the right-wing Democrats Party sponsored a bill to organize and sponsor \"Heterosexual Pride Day\" on the third Sunday of December. The bill was passed by the city council, and awaits the signature of mayor Gilberto Kassab. Apolinário, an Evangelical Protestant, stated that the intent of the parade was a \"struggle ... against excesses and privileges\". Members of Grupo Gay da Bahia and the Workers' Party criticized the bill as enhancing \"the possibility of discrimination and prejudice\". However, no events have ever been held.\n\nA Brazilian photographer was arrested after refusing to delete photos of police attacking two young people participating in a gay pride parade on October 16, 2011 in the city of Itabuna, Bahia, reported the newspaper Correio 24 horas.\n\nAccording to the website Notícias de Ipiau, Ederivaldo Benedito, known as Bené, said four police officers tried to convince him to delete the photos soon after they realized they were being photographed. When he refused, they ordered him to turn over the camera. When the photographer refused again, the police charged him with contempt and held him in jail for over 21 hours until he gave a statement.\n\nAccording to Chief Marlon Macedo, the police alleged that the photographer was interfering with their work, did not have identification, and became aggressive when he was asked to move. Bené denied the allegations, saying the police were belligerent and that the scene was witnessed by \"over 300 people\", reported Agência Estado.\n\nIn a 2008 interview for the biography book \"La Reina muy cerca\" (The Queen Up Close) by Spanish journalist and writer Pilar Urbano, Queen Sofía of Spain sparked off controversy by voicing her disapproval of LGBT pride in addition to overstepping her official duties as a member of the Royal Family by censuring the Spanish Law on Marriage in how it names equal same-sex unions \"matrimonio\" (marriage). Albeit without using the slogan \"Straight Pride\", Queen Sofía was directly quoted as saying that if heterosexuals were to take the streets as the LGBT community does for Gay Pride parades, that the former collective would bring Madrid to a standstill.\n\nEven though the Royal Household of Spain approved publication of the interview and Pilar Urbano offered to share the interview recording, both Queen Sofía and the Royal Household have refuted the comments in question.\n\nIn 2015 police dispersed the LGBT Pride Parade using tear gas and rubber bullets.\n\nIn 2016 and 2017 Istanbul Governor's Office didn't allow the LGBT Pride Parade, citing security concerns and public order.\n\nIn 2016, Ugandan police broke up a gay pride event in the capital. Homosexual acts are illegal in Uganda.\n\nIn a special queer issue of \"The Stranger\" in 1999, openly gay author, pundit, and journalist Dan Savage questioned the relevance of pride thirty years later, writing that pride was an effective antidote to shame imposed on LGBT people, but that pride is now making LGBT people dull and slow as a group, as well as being a constant reminder of shame. However, he also states that pride in some simpler forms are still useful to individuals struggling with shame. Savage writes that gay pride can also lead to disillusionment where an LGBT individual realises the reality that sexual orientation doesn't say much about a person's personality, after being led by the illusion that LGBT individuals are part of a co-supportive and inherently good group of people.\n\nThe growth and commercialization of Christopher Street Days, coupled with their de-politicalisation, has led to an alternative CSD in Berlin, the so-called \"Kreuzberger CSD\" or \"Transgenialer\" (\"Transgenial\"/Trans Ingenious\") CSD. Political party members are not invited for speeches, nor can parties or companies sponsor floats. After the parade there is a festival with a stage for political speakers and entertainers. Groups discuss lesbian/transsexual/transgender/gay or queer perspectives on issues such as poverty and unemployment benefits (Hartz IV), gentrification, or \"Fortress Europe\".\n\nIn June 2010, American philosopher and theorist Judith Butler refused the Civil Courage Award (Zivilcouragepreis) of the Christopher Street Day Parade in Berlin, Germany at the award ceremony, arguing and lamenting in a speech that the parade had become too commercial, and was ignoring the problems of racism and the double discrimination facing homosexual or transsexual migrants. According to Butler, even the organizers themselves promote racism. The general manager of the CSD committee, Robert Kastl, countered Butler's allegations and pointed out that the organizers already awarded a counselling center for lesbians dealing with double discrimination in 2006. Regarding the allegations of commercialism Kastl explained further that the CSD organizers don't require small groups to pay a participation fee which starts at 50 € and goes up to 1500 €. He also distanced himself from all forms of racism and islamophobia.\n\nA number of associations and social movements have been denouncing in recent years which, in its views, is a depletion of the claims of these demonstrations and the \"merchandization\" of the parade. In this respect, they defend, in countries like Spain, the United States or Canada, a \"Critical Pride\" celebration to have a political meaning again. Gay Shame, a radical movement within the LGBT community, opposes the assimilation of LGBT people into mainstream, heteronormative society, the commodification of non-heterosexual identity and culture, and in particular the (over) commercialization of pride events.\n\n\"Straight Pride\" and \"Heterosexual Pride\" are analogies and slogans that oppose heterosexuality to homosexuality by copying the phrase \"Gay Pride\". Originating from the Culture Wars in the United States, \"Straight Pride\" is a form of conservative backlash as there is no straight or heterosexual civil rights movement. While criticism from inside and outside the LGBT community abounds, the \"Straight Pride\" incidents have, however, gained some media attention especially when they involve government and public institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46457885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46457885", "title": "Gender and emotional expression", "text": "Gender and emotional expression\n\nThe topic of gender and emotion is often reduced to attempts to identify the differences between women, men, and the various ways in which they express their emotions. Stereotypes are powerful, and men and women from various cultures have been shown to accept the Western stereotype that women are more emotional than men. Specifically, women are believed to experience and express discrete emotions such as happiness, fear, disgust, and sadness more than men. \n\nMany researchers have concluded that the observed emotional differences between men and women primarily stem from socialized gender roles, rather than biology. Thus, the range of emotional expression that certain populations experience is based, in large part, on their culture's expectations for femininity and masculinity.\n\nMany psychologists reject the notion that men actually experience emotions less frequently than do women. Instead, researchers have suggested that men exhibit restrictive emotionality. Restrictive emotionality refers to a tendency to inhibit the expression of certain emotions and an unwillingness to self-disclose intimate feelings. Men's restrictive emotionality has been shown to influence health, emotional appraisal and overall identity. Furthermore, tendencies toward restrictive emotionality are correlated with an increased risk of certain anxiety disorders.\nA substantial amount of research has suggested that women do, on average, express emotions more frequently than men. In the Handbook of Emotions, Leslie R. Brody and Judith A. Hall report that This difference in emotional expression starts at a young age, as early as 4 and 6 years old, as girls begin to express more sadness and anxiety than their male counterparts. Brody and Hall (2008) report that women generally smile, laugh, nod and use hand gestures more than men do. The only known exception to this rule is that men more frequently express anger. However, all of these effects are not commonly observed until after preschool, suggesting that these differences might be the result of certain socialization processes. \nWomen are also more accurate expressers of emotion, when \"posing deliberately and when observed unobstrusively.\" This increased expressiveness in emotional expression is consistent across cultures – women report more intense emotional experiences and more overt emotional expressions across 37 cultures.\nIt has been found that men and women more accurately display gender-stereotypic expressions – men more accurately express anger, contempt and happiness, while women were more accurately express fear and happiness. Other studies have shown that women show higher levels of expression accuracy and judgement of nonverbal emotional cues than men overall. However, these patterns are not consistent across cultures, again suggesting that socialization influences the observed gender differences in emotional expression. For example, in Japan, research has suggested that women convey anger and contempt better than men do.\n\nResearch has shown that culture and context-specific gender roles have a stronger influence on emotional expression than do biological factors. \"Empirical evidence suggests that girls are socialized to be emotional, nonaggressive, nurturing, and obedient, whereas boys are socialized to be unemotional, aggressive, achievement oriented, and self-reliant. Peers continue this process as children develop and mature in effect constraining how, where, why, and with whom certain emotions are expressed\". One study suggests that people tend to exhibit more intense negative facial expressions in solitary conditions, and smile more when others are present. In this experiment, men and women did not differ in their anger expression in non-social conditions. However, women were more likely to express their anger in the solitary condition as opposed to the social condition. Men, on the other hand, seemed to be less concerned with appearing positive to others; they showed no difference in their expression of anger based on whether or not others were present. In another recent study, Coats and Feldman found that women who were more accurate expressors of happiness were judged as more popular, while men who were more accurate expressors of anger were judged as more popular. This suggests that there are negative consequences for people who are less accurate expressors of gender-stereotypical emotions.\n\nThese consequences also extend to judging others' emotions. Studies have shown that there are negative social consequences for children who are deficient at judging gender-stereotypic nonverbal cues – angry nonverbal cues for boys and happy, sad, and fearful nonverbal cues for girls. Communication of emotion involves both detection and expression of emotions or moods. The ability to detect non-verbal cues leads to successful communication of emotions. In computer-mediated communication (CMC), the absence of body language and visibility restricts one's ability to correctly recognize other's emotions. For this reason, emoticons are widely used in online communication to replace non-verbal behaviors that emphasize or clarify one's feelings. Surprisingly, there is no static gender difference in the use of emoticons. In some studies, both men and women display an increase in emoticon use in the context of a mixed-gender group chat. Others show that men use more emoticons when interacting with women, while women show no change when interacting with men.\n\nThe social-developmental hypothesis is one of the major arguments for the impact of nurture on emotional expression. The social-developmental theory explains gender differences in emotion expression through emphasizing \"children's active role in their development of gendered behavior\" through learning by watching adults or through interactions with their parents and peers (Chaplin & Aldao, 2012). This hypothesis points to the fact that infants are not born with the same differences in emotional expression and gender differences generally grow more pronounced as children age. In a 2012 meta-analysis conducted by Tara Chaplin and Amelia Aldao, researchers reviewed gender differences in emotion expression from the infancy period through adolescence in order to determine the impact of development and age on gender differences. Their findings support the notion that social factors in a child's development play a large role in the gender differences that later emerge, as \"gender differences were not found in infancy…but they emerged by the toddler/preschool period and in childhood\". One possible explanation for this developmental difference comes from the child's parents. In many Western cultures, for example, parents discuss and express a broader range of emotions with their daughters than their sons. As children grow older, these patterns continue with their peers.\n\nThe second major argument in support of social influences on emotion expression involves the idea that a society's gender roles reinforce gender differences. The social constructionist theory states that children grow up in the context of gender roles that naturally place them in role-specific situations, influencing their emotion expression in that context. Gender stereotypes in heteronormative societies enforce expectations for women to suppress anger and contempt, but express other emotions using words and facial expressions. Simultaneously, these same cultural norms discourage men from verbally expressing emotions, with the exception of anger or contempt (Wester, Pressly, & Heesacker, 2002). As an adaptive feature, regulation of expression of emotion involves the consideration the social demands of any given situation. Studies have shown that \"fewer gender differences in emotion expression may be found when children are with someone they trust and know well than when children are with an unfamiliar person\" (Chaplin & Aldao, 2012). Generally, people are trained to behave in a \"socially acceptable\" way around strangers or acquaintances, suggesting that the social context of an environment can shape the levels of emotion expression.\n\nBiological factors also play a role in influencing emotion expression. One central biological argument is related to cognitive differences between genders. In a 2008 study using functional magnetic reasoning imaging (fMRI) to monitor brain activity in participants, researchers found that men and women differ in neural responses when experiencing negative emotions. \"Compared with women, men showed lesser increases in prefrontal regions that are associated with reappraisal, greater decreases in the amygdala, which is associated with emotional responding, and lesser engagement of ventral striatal regions, which are associated with reward processing\" (McRae, Ochsner, Mauss, Gabrieli, & Gross, 2008). The way that male and female brains respond to emotions likely impacts the expression of those emotions.\n\nThe biological roots of gender differences interact with the social environment in various ways. Biological theorists propose that females and males have innate differences that exist at birth, but unfold with age and maturation in response to interactions with their specific environments (Chaplin & Aldao, 2012). An important argument for this viewpoint is that \"gender differences in emotion expression are the result of a combination of biologically based temperamental predispositions and the socialization of boys and girls to adopt gender-related display rules for emotion expression\". It has been suggested that even infant males display higher levels of activity and arousal than do infant girls as well as a lower ability for language and behavior inhibitory controls, which are biologically-based characteristics. This \"nature\" argument interacts with \"nurture\" in that \"parents and other socialization agents may respond to boys in ways that dampen emotional expressiveness…as a way to down-regulate their high emotional arousal and activity levels\". On the other hand, girls are encouraged to utilize their higher vocabulary and communication skills to verbally express their emotions to parents and other adults, which would also highlight expression differences between genders.\n\nReferences to a figurative \"man-box\", an idea often attributed to TED speaker Tony Porter, attempts to describe the societal restrictions on a man's freedom of emotional expression. As Porter describes, this restriction is a primary reason for high rates of violence against women. Through his organization, \"A Call to Men\", Porter and his team organize initiatives and create awareness about what it means to possess \"healthy manhood\". The 'man-box' is an analogous attempt to shed light on some of the cultural and social barriers we impose on men such as emotional reservedness, lack of physical intimacy with other men, and expectations of aggressive and/or dominant behavior in social environments.\n\nEmotions are complex and involve different components, such as physiological arousal, expressive behaviors, and conscious experience. While the expressive component of emotion has been widely studied, it remains unclear whether or not men and women differ in other aspects of emotion. Most researchers agree that women are more emotionally expressive, but not that they experience more emotions than men do. Some studies have shown that women are more likely to produce inauthentic smiles than men do, while others have shown the opposite. This debate is significant because emotion can be generated by adopting an action that is associated with a particular emotion, such as smiling and speaking softly.\n\nA possible explanation is that both men and women's emotional expressiveness is susceptible to social factors. Men and women may be reinforced by social and cultural standards to express emotions differently, but it is not necessarily true in terms of experiencing emotions. For instance, studies suggest that women often occupy roles that conform to feminine display rules, which require them to amplify their emotional response to impress others.\n\n"}
{"id": "1525258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1525258", "title": "Highbrow", "text": "Highbrow\n\nUsed colloquially as a noun or adjective, \"highbrow\" is synonymous with intellectual; as an adjective, it also means elite, and generally carries a connotation of high culture. The word draws its metonymy from the pseudoscience of phrenology, and was originally simply a physical descriptor.\n\n\"Highbrow\" can be applied to music, implying most of the classical music tradition; to literature—i.e., literary fiction and poetry; to films in the arthouse line; and to comedy that requires significant understanding of analogies or references to appreciate. The term \"highbrow\" is considered by some (with corresponding labels as 'middlebrow' 'lowbrow') as discriminatory or overly selective; and \"highbrow\" is currently distanced from the writer by quotation marks: \"We thus focus on the consumption of two generally recognised 'highbrow' genres—opera and classical\". The first usage in print of \"highbrow\" was recorded in 1884. The term was popularized in 1902 by Will Irvin, a reporter for \"The Sun\" who adhered to the phrenological notion of more intelligent people having high foreheads.\n\nThe opposite of \"highbrow\" is \"lowbrow\", and between them is \"middlebrow\", describing culture that is neither high nor low; as a usage, \"middlebrow\" is derogatory, as in Virginia Woolf's unsent letter to the \"New Statesman\", written in the 1930s and published in \"The Death of the Moth and Other Essays\" (1942). According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the word \"middlebrow\" first appeared in print in 1925, in \"Punch\": \"The BBC claims to have discovered a new type—'the middlebrow'. It consists of people who are hoping that some day they will get used to the stuff that they ought to like\". The term had previously appeared in hyphenated form in 1912:\nIt was popularized by the American writer and poet Margaret Widdemer, whose essay \"Message and Middlebrow\" appeared in the \"Review of Literature\" in 1933. The three genres of fiction, as American readers approached them in the 1950s and as obscenity law differentially judged them, are the subject of Ruth Pirsig Wood, \"Lolita in Peyton Place: Highbrow, Middlebrow, and Lowbrow Novels\", 1995.\n\nPrince Hamlet was considered by Virginia Woolf as a highbrow lacking orientation in the world once he had lost the lowbrow Ophelia with her grip on earthly realities: this, she thought, explained why in general highbrows \"honour so wholeheartedly and depend so completely upon those who are called lowbrows\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11540091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11540091", "title": "Hylomorphism (computer science)", "text": "Hylomorphism (computer science)\n\nIn computer science, and in particular functional programming, a hylomorphism is a recursive function, corresponding to the composition of an anamorphism (which first builds a set of results; also known as 'unfolding') followed by a catamorphism (which then folds these results into a final return value). Fusion of these two recursive computations into a single recursive pattern then avoids building the intermediate data structure. This is an example of deforestation, a program optimization strategy. A related type of function is a metamorphism, which is a catamorphism followed by an anamorphism.\n\nA hylomorphism formula_1 can be defined in terms of its separate anamorphic and catamorphic parts.\n\nThe anamorphic part can be defined in terms of a unary function formula_2 defining the list of elements in formula_3 by repeated application (\"unfolding\"), and a predicate formula_4 providing the terminating condition.\n\nThe catamorphic part can be defined as a combination of an initial value formula_5 for the fold and a binary operator formula_6 used to perform the fold.\n\nThus a hylomorphism\nmay be defined (assuming appropriate definitions of formula_8 & formula_9).\n\nAn abbreviated notation for the above hylomorphism is formula_10.\n\nLists are common data structures as they naturally reflect linear computational processes. These processes arise in repeated (iterative) function calls. Therefore, it is sometimes necessary to generate a temporary list of intermediate results before reducing this list to a single result.\n\nOne example of a commonly encountered hylomorphism is the canonical factorial function.\n\nIn the previous example (written in Haskell, a purely functional programming language) it can be seen that this function, applied to any given valid input, will generate a linear call tree isomorphic to a list. For example, given \"n\" = 5 it will produce the following:\n\nIn this example, the anamorphic part of the process is the generation of the call tree which is isomorphic to the list codice_1. The catamorphism, then, is the calculation of the product of the elements of this list. Thus, in the notation given above, the factorial function may be written formula_11 where formula_12 and formula_13.\n\nHowever, the term 'hylomorphism' does not apply solely to functions acting upon isomorphisms of lists. For example, a hylomorphism may also be defined by generating a non-linear call tree which is then collapsed. An example of such a function is the function to generate the \"n\" term of the Fibonacci sequence.\n\nThis function, again applied to any valid input, will generate a call tree which is non-linear. In the example on the right, the call tree generated by applying the codice_2 function to the input codice_3.\n\nThis time, the anamorphism is the generation of the call tree isomorphic to the tree with leaf nodes codice_4 and the catamorphism the summation of these leaf nodes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27443924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27443924", "title": "Integrative behavioral couples therapy", "text": "Integrative behavioral couples therapy\n\nBehavioral marital therapy, sometimes called behavioral couples therapy, has its origins in behaviorism and is a form of behavior therapy. The theory is rooted in social learning theory and behavior analysis. As a model, it is constantly being revised as new research presents.\n\nBehavioral marital therapy started with simple research conducted on couples in the 1960s. Robert Weiss and Richard Stuart were the original authors of such research. In early 1970s Nathan Azrin published his concept of mutal reinforcement and reciprocity. Azrin stated that (1) human behavior is maintained by reinforcement on the person who performed the behavior (2) people have a tendency to treat others as they are treated and (3) mutual reinforcement accounts at least partially for concepts like friendships, joy, and love. Neil Jacobson pioneered the behavioral marital therapy approach. He published a book with Gayla Margolin, which launched a social learning model of couples therapy. In this model of therapy, partners learn to be nicer to each other through behavioral exchange (contingency contracts), communicate better and improve their conflict-resolution skills. Early support came when Gottman found that as long as the ratio of positive to negative interactions remains at least five to one, the relationship is sturdy. When the ratio dips below there is a 94 percent chance that a couple will divorce. Other authors have found a role for exchanges as well. Behavioral marital therapy model remains the most researched model of family therapy and was found to be effective for treating marital discord and depression in women. Parts of the behavioral couples therapy model, in particular strategic use of the communication skills to reinforce drug abstinence and open dialogue about treatment, were introduced as a method for getting drug abusing partners into treatment \"(see Community Reinforcement Approach and Family Training)\".\n\nEarly research suggested that the components of behavioral marital therapy worked as predicted. The social exchange component led to increases in marital satisfaction in the short run. The communication training program led couples to communicate better and produced more long term changes in contingencies between couple members.\n\nDisillusionment with the traditional model began with a study in which it was found that only 50% of couples responded to the therapy. In addition, traditional couple therapy did not produce more significant outcomes compared to insight-oriented couple therapy.\n\nIntegrative behavioral couple therapy (IBCT) was developed by Neil S. Jacobson and Andrew Christensen. The model represents a return to contextualism, functional analysis and Skinner's distinction between contingency shaped and rule governed behavior. Integrative Behavioral Couple Therapy is \"integrative\" in at least two senses: First, it integrates the twin goals of acceptance and change as positive outcomes for couples in therapy. Couples who succeed in therapy usually make some concrete changes to accommodate the needs of the other but they also show greater emotional acceptance of the other. Second, IBCT integrates a variety of treatment strategies under a consistent behavioral theoretical framework. It is considered a third generation behavior therapy or sometimes called clinical behavior analysis.\n\nBoth the integrative and traditional behavioral couples therapy models have origins primarily in behaviorism. While traditional behavioral couples therapy has more roots in social learning principles and the later model in Skinnerian behaviorism. The latter model draws heavily on the use of functional analysis (psychology) and the Skinnerian distinction between contingency shaped and rule governed behavior to balance acceptance and change in the relationship.\n\nIBCT consists of two major phases, an evaluation/feedback phase and an active treatment phase. The first three sessions consist of an evaluation period where the therapist learns about the concerns of the couple. In the first session, the therapist usually sees both partners together, learns what brings the couple to therapy, and obtains a brief history of their relationship. The therapist may suggest couples read a self-help book during treatment that serves as a guideline for IBCT therapy. Also during this first session, the therapist normally gives each partner some questionnaires to complete and bring to their individual sessions, which are the next two sessions. In these individual sessions, the therapist explores each partner's relationship concerns and individual history. In the fourth session, the therapist sees both partners together for the \"feedback session.\" The therapist may gather some final information in the beginning of the session, but most of the session is devoted to feedback from the therapist, in which he or she describes the couple's difficulties and strengths and how therapy will try to assist the couple. A major part of the feedback session is the therapist's formulation of the couple's problems, a conceptualization of the major themes in the couple's struggles, the understandable reasons why the couple has these struggles, how their efforts to resolve the struggles so often fail, and how therapy can help. The couple actively participates in this feedback, giving their reactions, adding information, and correcting the therapist's impressions as needed.\n\nAfter the feedback session, the couple can make an informed decision about whether the therapist and treatment seem right for them. Assuming they decide positively, then the active phase of treatment begins. Sessions at this point are almost always done jointly, with both members of the couple and the therapist. The focus is often on important recent incidents, positive or negative, that reflect their major theme or themes. For example, if a major theme concerned partners' difficulties in achieving emotional intimacy, the couple might discuss a recent incident in which they were able to achieve a sense of closeness with each other or an incident in which one or both reached out to the other but felt rebuffed. Similarly, if a major theme involved frequent struggles over decision-making, they might discuss a recent incident where they were able to reach agreement on a matter or an incident where they got into a negative, escalating conflict about an issue on which they disagreed. Upcoming incidents related to a couple's theme, such as a difficult, upcoming decision that the couple must make, and broader issues related to a couple's theme, such as how partners in a couple who struggles to achieve emotional intimacy react when their feelings are hurt, are also a focus of discussion. In these discussions, the therapist is often quite active, helping the partners communicate more openly, directly, and clearly, helping them identify the patterns that get them stuck, and assisting them in finding alternative ways of interacting.\n\nThe standard protocol for IBCT therapy is described in a treatment manual written for therapists. This standard protocol has been used in research on IBCT and includes 4 sessions for the assessment/feedback phase and an additional 20–22 sessions of active treatment. Typically sessions are conducted every week and last just short of an hour. Toward the end of therapy, sessions are often spaced more widely (e.g., every other week or longer). Thus, the typical course of therapy lasts between 6 and 12 months.\n\nWhile traditional behavioral couples therapy focused heavily on change, integrative couples therapy attempted to balance change and acceptance. This is achieved through helping couples to better understand each other's learning history and to produce more contingency shaped changes in session and less rule governed changes for the couple. This is accomplished through therapist interventions such as turning the problem into something that happens to the couple. Some of the current research suggests that contingency shaped behavior is easier to maintain then rule governed behavior for couples. As to behavioral function, the greater the amount of escape /withdrawal behavior a couples members displays during demand situations the higher the amount of distress.\n\nIntegrative behavioral couples therapy addresses topics such as intimacy in couples relationships and forgiveness in couples.\n\nA growing number of researchers are interested in the concept of behavioral momentum with couples. Couples seem to go through periods of ongoing improvement and other couples seem to go through periods of negative momentum. Theoretically, behaviorism has begun to focus more on romantic love.\n\nIntegrative behavioral couples therapy seems to work slower in producing change initially but has led to a 71% improvement rate in couples. In addition, Integrative behavioral couples therapy does not produce as much change as traditional behavioral couples therapy but it does produce more acceptance. At two years 69% of the Integrative behavioral couples therapy group appears to be doing better, while only 60% of the traditional group does better, while marital satisfaction was also in greater favor for the integrative behavioral couples therapy group. However, the traditional behavioral couples therapy group had a larger decline in negativity toward each other than did the integrative behavioral couples therapy group.\n\nOverall the state of the research of couples being treated specifically for marital infidelity is in its infancy. One study, looked at 19 couples who had an affair. This study found that both traditional behavioral couples therapy and integrative behavioral couples therapy were effective in increasing intmacy after the affair was disclosed. The authors suggested that this is good news for couples. A greater reliance on behavioral conceptualizations of romantic love intimacy and forgiveness may be helpful in easing the pain of such difficult situations.\n\nBehavior analysis uses direct observation to determine the areas for intervention.\n\nThe Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies (ABCT) has an annual conference where couple researchers and therapists can present their recent work in the field. The ABCT Couples Special Interest Group is part of ABCT and is composed of researchers whose focus is intimate relationships or clinicians whose focus is couple therapy.\n\nThe Association for Behavior Analysis International (ABA:I) has a special interest group in Behavioral Counseling which has many couples therapists. ABA:I has two conventions per year on in the U.S. and one Internationally. Couples researchers and therapists often present at these conferences.\n\nThe World Center for Behavior Analysis offers a certification in behavior therapy that covers Integrative Behavioral Couples Therapy.\n"}
{"id": "36188507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36188507", "title": "Jing (philosophy)", "text": "Jing (philosophy)\n\nJing () is a concept in Chinese philosophy which is typically translated as \"reverence.\" It is often used by Confucius in the term \"gōngjìng\" (), meaning \"respectful reverence\". The Confucian notion of respect has been likened to the later, western Kantian notion. For Confucians, \"jìng\" requires \"yì\", or righteousness, and a proper observation of rituals (\"lǐ\"). To have \"jìng\" is vitally important in the maintenance of \"xiào\", or filial piety.\n"}
{"id": "46900869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46900869", "title": "Label Propagation Algorithm", "text": "Label Propagation Algorithm\n\nLabel Propagation is a semi-supervised machine learning algorithm that assigns labels to previously unlabeled data points. At the start of the algorithm, a (generally small) subset of the data points have labels (or classifications). These labels are propagated to the unlabeled points throughout the course of the algorithm.\n\nWithin complex networks, real networks tend to have community structure. Label propagation is an algorithm for finding communities. In comparison with other algorithms label propagation has advantages in its running time and amount of a priori information needed about the network structure (no parameter is required to be known beforehand). The disadvantage is that it produces no unique solution, but an aggregate of many solutions.\n\nAt initial condition, the nodes carry a label that denotes the community they belong to. Membership in a community changes based on the labels that the neighboring nodes possess. This change is subject to the maximum number of labels within one degree of the nodes. Every node is initialized with a unique label, then the labels diffuse through the network. Consequently, densely connected groups reach a common label quickly. When many such dense (consensus) groups are created throughout the network, they continue to expand outwards until it is impossible to do so.\n\nThe process has 5 steps:\n\n1. Initialize the labels at all nodes in the network. For a given node x, C (0) = x.\n\n2. Set t = 1.\n\n3. Arrange the nodes in the network in a random order and set it to X.\n\n4. For each x ∈ X chosen in that specific order, let C(t) = f(C(t), ...,C(t),C (t − 1), ...,C (t − 1)). f here returns the label occurring with the highest frequency among neighbours.\n\n5. If every node has a label that the maximum number of their neighbours have, then stop the algorithm. Else, set t = t + 1 and go to (3).\n\nIn contrast with other algorithms label propagation can result in various community structures from the same initial condition. The range of solutions can be narrowed if some nodes are given preliminary labels while others are held unlabelled. Consequently, unlabelled nodes will be more likely to adapt to the labelled ones. For a more accurate finding of communities, Jaccard’s index is used to aggregate multiple community structures, containing all important information.\n\n"}
{"id": "1718317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718317", "title": "Lorenz gauge condition", "text": "Lorenz gauge condition\n\nIn electromagnetism, the Lorenz gauge condition or Lorenz gauge (sometimes mistakenly called the Lorentz gauge) is a partial gauge fixing of the electromagnetic vector potential. The condition is that formula_1 This does not completely determine the gauge: one can still make a gauge transformation formula_2 where formula_3 is a harmonic scalar function (that is, a scalar function satisfying formula_4 the equation of a massless scalar field).\n\nThe Lorenz condition is used to eliminate the redundant spin-0 component in the representation theory of the Lorentz group. It is equally used for massive spin-1 fields where the concept of gauge transformations does not apply at all.\n\nThe Lorenz condition is named after Ludvig Lorenz. It is a Lorentz invariant condition, and is frequently called the \"Lorentz condition\" because of confusion with Hendrik Lorentz, after whom Lorentz covariance is named.\n\nIn electromagnetism, the Lorenz condition is generally used in calculations of time-dependent electromagnetic fields through retarded potentials. The condition is\n\nwhere formula_6 is the four-potential, the comma denotes a partial differentiation and the repeated index indicates that the Einstein summation convention is being used. The condition has the advantage of being Lorentz invariant. It still leaves substantial gauge degrees of freedom.\n\nIn ordinary vector notation and SI units, the condition is\n\nwhere formula_8 is the magnetic vector potential and formula_9 is the electric potential; see also gauge fixing.\n\nIn Gaussian units the condition is\n\nA quick justification of the Lorenz gauge can be found using Maxwell's equations and the relation between the magnetic vector potential and the magnetic field:\n\nTherefore,\n\nSince the curl is zero, that means there is a scalar function formula_13 such that \n\nThis gives the well known equation for the electric field, \n\nThis result can be plugged into another one of Maxwell's equations,\n\nThis leaves,\n\nTo have Lorentz invariance, the time derivatives and spatial derivatives must be treated equally (i.e. of the same order). Therefore, it is convenient to choose the Lorenz gauge condition, which gives the result\n\nA similar procedure with a focus on the electric scalar potential and making the same gauge choice will yield\n\nThese are simpler and more symmetric forms of the inhomogeneous Maxwell's equations. Note that the Coulomb gauge also fixes the problem of Lorentz invariance, but leaves a coupling term with first-order derivatives.\n\nHere \n\nis the vacuum velocity of light, and formula_21 is the d'Alembertian operator. These equations are not only valid under vacuum conditions, but also in polarized media, if formula_22 and formula_23 are source density and circulation density, respectively, of the electromagnetic induction fields formula_24 and formula_25 calculated as usual from formula_13 and formula_8 by the equations \n\nThe explicit solutions for formula_9 and formula_8 – unique, if all quantities vanish sufficiently fast at infinity – are known as retarded potentials.\n\nWhen originally published, Lorenz's work was not received well by Maxwell. Maxwell had eliminated the Coulomb electrostatic force from his derivation of the electromagnetic wave equation since he was working in what would nowadays be termed the Coulomb gauge. The Lorenz gauge hence contradicted Maxwell's original derivation of the EM wave equation by introducing a retardation effect to the Coulomb force and bringing it inside the EM wave equation alongside the time varying electric field, which was introduced in Lorenz's paper \"On the identity of the vibrations of light with electrical currents\". Lorenz's work was the first symmetrizing shortening of Maxwell's equations after Maxwell himself published his 1865 paper. In 1888, retarded potentials came into general use after Heinrich Rudolf Hertz's experiments on electromagnetic waves. In 1895, a further boost to the theory of retarded potentials came after J. J. Thomson's interpretation of data for electrons (after which investigation into electrical phenomena changed from time-dependent electric charge and electric current distributions over to moving point charges).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27148752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27148752", "title": "Making Europe Unconquerable", "text": "Making Europe Unconquerable\n\nMaking Europe Unconquerable is a book about how civilian-based defense can be incorporated into the foundations of European defense and collective security. Written by Gene Sharp, the book was originally published in the United Kingdom and United States in 1985. Its subtitle was \"the potential of civilian-based deterrence and defense\". The book was reviewed in major newspapers, magazines, and professional journals. Although it advocated a significant departure from existing defense policies, it received a favorable review from George F. Kennan, widely perceived as one of the major architects of the US approach to the cold war. Later in the same year, the book was republished with a foreword from Kennan. It has also been published in Dutch and Italian editions.\n\nIn its opening pages, \"Making Europe Unconquerable\" states that \n\n\"Making Europe Unconquerable\" contains 7 chapters entitled\nThe book also contains a bibliography (12 pages) and an index (24 pages).\n\nReviews have appeared in the \n\"New York Review of Books\", the \"New York Times\", the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\", \"Foreign Affairs\", \"International Affairs\", \"Journal of Peace Research\", and elsewhere.\n\nIn the \"New York Review of Books\", George F. Kennan, widely viewed as a major architect of the US approach to the cold war, wrote that Sharp's \"primary purpose in writing the book was... 'to make civilian-based deterrence and defense a thinkable policy which is recognized as meriting further research, policy studies, and an evaluation.' And for this, he makes a reasonably good case.\" Kennan stated that \"the view advanced in this book deserves consideration, if only because of the bankruptcy of all the visible alternatives to it.\" Kennan viewed Sharp's approach as requiring\n\nKennan wondered \"whether, if this change in political philosophy were to take place, it might not have wider effects than just those that relate to the concepts of national security—whether many other things might not also change, and, in the main, usefully so,\" and advised that Sharp\nIn the \"New York Times\", Karl E. Meyer described the book as \"reflective,\" and stated that \"there is considerable merit to <nowiki>[Sharp's]</nowiki> contention that 'all peoples can with effort make themselves politically indigestable to would-be tyrants.'\" Meyer also argued that Sharp's approach \"has its flaws... If the stakes are deemed sufficiently vital, civilian resistance seems unlikely to dissuade a determined aggressor.\"\n\nIn \"Foreign Affairs\", Andrew Pierre wrote that \n\nHe added that \"The author's proposals go against the grain of mainstream thinking, and to this reviewer leave many questions unanswered, but they are carefully put forward in a nonpolemical manner and clearly merit sustained attention and thought\" (p. 873).\n\n\"Ted Taylor\", himself a former designer of nuclear weapons, reviewed the book in the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\". He quoted Einstein:\n\nHe added that \"The side effects of pursuing a civilian-based defense strategy are especially interesting, since they tend to be beneficial in peacetime. This is a book that should be read attentively by anyone seriously searching for new ways of thinking about how we can stop our \"drift toward unparalleled catastrophe.\" (p. 56).\n\nEnglish language editions:\n\nForeign (non-English) language editions:\n\n"}
{"id": "28497848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28497848", "title": "Mashup (book)", "text": "Mashup (book)\n\nA mash-up novel (also called \"mashup\" or \"mashed-up novel\"), is a work of fiction which combines a pre-existing literature text, often a classic work of fiction, with another genre, usually horror genre, into a single narrative. Marjorie Kehe of the \"Christian Science Monitor\" renders this admixture of classic text as \"somewhere between 60 and 85 percent original text, with new plot twists added by contemporary co-authors\". These \"twists\" often include horror fiction elements like vampires, werewolves or zombies.\n\nThe term mashup or mash-up originated within the music industry. Also called \"mash-up\", songs within the genre are described as a song or composition created by blending two or more pre-recorded songs, usually by overlaying the vocal track of one song seamlessly over the instrumental track of another. To the extent that such works are \"transformative\" of original content, they may find protection from copyright claims under the \"fair use\" doctrine of copyright law. Adam Cohen of the \"New York Times\" notes that even before that, \"the idea of combining two data sources into a new product began in the tech world\" before spreading to other media, including book publishing.\n\nThe term appears to have first been coined in a review of Seth Grahame-Smith's 2009 novel, \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\". Initially calling it a 'parody' and 'literary hybrid', Caroline Kellogg, lead blogger for \"Jacket Copy\", \"The LA Times\"' book blog, later describes the work as \"novel-as-mashup\". As the popularity of the novel grew and a bidding war commenced over the film rights to the book, the term spread. Subsequent mash-up novels include \"Sense and Sensibility and Seamonsters\", \"Little Women and Werewolves\" and \"Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter\" (also by Grahame-Smith), the last of which was adapted into a film .\n\nPrior to publication, the artwork cover for \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" depicting a \"zombified\" Regency portrait of Marcia Fox by Sir William Beechey altered by Quirk Books artist Doogie Horner to show her lower face eroded, exposing bone and viscera caught the attention of bloggers, as did the opening line of the novel: \"It is a truth universally acknowledged that a zombie in possession of brains must be in want of more brains.\" This is a parody of Austen's original line, \"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.\"\n\nWhile most works in mash-up genre rely on fictional texts as their basis, other works like \"Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter\" superimpose the same sort of contrasting genre upon historical figures and events. A more recent phenomenon within the genre is the combination of more than two original works, or genres, as in the case of \"Robinson Crusoe (The Eerie Adventures of the Lycanthrope)\", which combines the original novel with elements borrowed from the works of H.P. Lovecraft as well as the popular genre of werewolf fiction, and is accordingly attributed to three authors – Daniel Defoe, H.P. Lovecraft, and Peter Clines.\n\nAs previously noted, the novel \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" combines Jane Austen's classic 1813 novel \"Pride and Prejudice\" with elements of modern zombie fiction, crediting Austen as co-author. It was first published in April 2009 by Quirk Books and in October 2009 a Deluxe Edition was released, containing full-color images and additional zombie scenes.\n\nAn earlier novel, \"Move Under Ground\" by Nick Mamatas was a 2004 novel combining the Beat style of Jack Kerouac with the cosmic horror of H. P. Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos.\n\nMashup novels constitute derivative works since they include major elements borrowed from an original, previously created work. Most authors of such novels, however, avoid potential legal issues (and the payment of royalties to the original writers) by basing their books on texts that are in the public domain. One notable exception is \"The Late Gatsby\", which combines F. Scott Fitzgerald's \"The Great Gatsby\" with a vampire narrative – since the original text is still protected by the Copyright Term Extension Act (until 2020) in the United States, the book was published outside the U.S. and remains unavailable to its residents.\n\nWhile initially well-received (\"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" spent eight months on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list and \"Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter\" has already been made into a feature film), at least one reviewer has suggested that the genre has run its course in popularity. Jennifer Schuessler, of \"The New York Times\" reflects the pessimism of critics of the genre:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "916404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916404", "title": "Meeting of the minds", "text": "Meeting of the minds\n\nMeeting of the minds (also referred to as mutual agreement, mutual assent or consensus ad idem) is a phrase in contract law used to describe the intentions of the parties forming the contract. In particular, it refers to the situation where there is a common understanding in the formation of the contract. Formation of a contract is initiated with a proposal or offer. This condition or element is considered a requirement to the formation of a contract in some jurisdictions.\n\nRichard Austen-Baker has suggested that the perpetuation of the idea of 'meeting of minds' may come from a misunderstanding of the Latin term \"consensus ad idem\", which actually means 'agreement to the [same] thing'. There must be evidence that the parties had each, from an objective perspective, engaged in conduct manifesting their assent, and a contract will be formed when the parties have met such a requirement.\n\nGerman jurist, Friedrich Carl von Savigny is usually credited with developing the will theory of contract in his work \"System des heutigen Römischen Rechts\" (1840).\n\nSir Frederick Pollock is one person known for expounding the idea of a contract based on a meeting of minds, at which time it gained much support in the courts.\n\nOliver Wendell Holmes wrote in 1897 that a meeting of minds was really a fiction.\n\nThe English contracts scholar Richard Austen-Baker has suggested that the perpetuation of the concept into current times is based on a confusion of it with the concept of a \"consensus ad idem\" (\"agreement to the same [thing]\") which is an undoubted requirement of synallagmatic contracting, and that this confusion may be the result of recent ignorance of Latin.\n\nIn \"Household Fire and Carriage Accident Insurance Co Ltd v Grant\" (1879) 4 Ex D 216, Thesiger LJ said, in the course of a judgment on the postal rule,\n\nIn \"Carlill v Carbolic Smoke Ball Company\" [1893] 1 QB 256, Bowen LJ said,\n\nIn \"Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States\" (1923) the US Supreme Court said an implied in fact contract is,\n\nThe reasoning is that a party should not be held to a contract that they were not even aware existed. A mutual promise between friends over simple personal matters should not be a situation where legal remedies are to be used. Equally, any such agreement where the obligation is primarily a moral one rather than a legal one should not be enforceable. It is only when all parties involved are aware of the formation of a \"legal obligation\" is there a meeting of the minds.\n\nHowever, the awareness of a legal obligation is established, not through each party's subjective understanding of the terms, but on \"objective indicators,\" based on what each party said and did.\n\nUnder the formalist theory of contract, every contract must have six elements: offer, acceptance, consideration, \"meeting of the minds\", capacity and legality. Many other contracts, but not all types of contracts, also must be in writing and be signed by the responsible party, in an element called form. \n\nMutual assent is vitiated by actions such as fraud, undue influence, duress (see per minas), mutual mistake, or misrepresentation. This may render a contract void or unenforceable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11950735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11950735", "title": "National Football League player conduct policy", "text": "National Football League player conduct policy\n\nOn April 10, 2007, the National Football League introduced a new conduct policy to help control off-field behavior by its players and preserve the league's public image. The policy, introduced by NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, implements a tougher, new personal-conduct policy, and under conditions of the previous policy handed down two of the harshest suspensions in NFL history for off-field misdeeds. Each player that has been suspended must reapply for reinstatement. The policy only applies to the player's personal lives and image in the public spotlight. The NFL conducts separate investigations for drug and alcohol abuse and performance enhancement.\n\nAs of December 2011, seven players have been suspended for an extended period by the NFL due to conduct off the field.\n\nOn September 1, 2006, just days prior to the start of the 2006 NFL season, Roger Goodell assumed the office of Commissioner of the National Football League. Goodell was met with expectations of enforcing the National Football League's image to the media. In the months leading up to Goodell's ascension, nine players from the Cincinnati Bengals had been arrested. Goodell and the National Football League Players Association decided that teams will be responsible for the conduct of their employees, and will be subject to discipline for any transgressions.\n\nGoodell had consulted with Gene Upshaw, former executive director of the NFLPA, and also created a six-man player advisory committee to discuss conduct, discipline and other topics.\n\nThe first (players) to feel the teeth of the new policy were Tennessee Titans cornerback Adam \"Pacman\" Jones and Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Chris Henry, college teammates at West Virginia whose first two years in the NFL were marred by arrests. The third player suspended was Chicago Bears defensive tackle Tank Johnson. On August 24, 2007, Atlanta Falcons starting quarterback Michael Vick filed a plea agreement and pleaded guilty in his involvement in illegal dog fighting and euthanization, and was suspended indefinitely without pay; his reinstatement occurred in time for him to play in the 2009-2010 season.\n\nTennessee Titans cornerback Adam \"Pacman\" Jones, facing felony charges in two states, was suspended for the entire 2007 season and given specific conditions to meet before he is reinstated, and he can be reinstated after the Titans' eleventh game. There were 10 occasions in which Jones was interviewed by police, the most recent during the NBA All-Star weekend in Las Vegas. Police there recommended felony and misdemeanor charges against Jones after a fight and shooting at, what Jones refers to as a \"strip club\", left one man paralyzed. Jones later appealed his suspension, saying he was \"just being rebellious\", but withdrew the request just weeks later. On June 20, 2007, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and Clark County District Attorney's office announced that Jones will face two felony charges stemming from the strip club melee that occurred on February 19, 2007. While the charges have since been dropped, Jones still faces civil actions, and his reinstatement was not to be considered until after the 2008 Pro Bowl. On June 2, 2008, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell cleared Jones to participate in preseason workouts for the Dallas Cowboys, who had traded for him during his suspension, and also said that a decision on Jones' reinstatement for the regular season would be made by September 1, six days before the Cowboys' first 2008 regular-season game. The league announced at that time that Jones' full reinstatement would depend on \"demonstrating that he can conduct himself in a lawful and reliable manner.\" On August 26 Jones found himself fully reinstated, only to be suspended indefinitely on October 14 after an altercation with his bodyguard in a Dallas hotel.\n\nCincinnati Bengals wide receiver Chris Henry, arrested five times in three states between December 2005 and April 2008, was suspended for the first eight games of the 2007 season. He also had to comply with several conditions before returning. Henry was arrested four times in a 14-month span, and received a two-game league suspension last year. He was one of nine Bengals arrested in nine months. Henry was required to not get into further trouble with the law and had to cooperate fully with required counseling, education and treatment assigned to him under league programs.\n\nHenry returned for the second half of the 2007 season but played a minor role on an 7-9 Bengals team. In April 2008, the Bengals released Henry after he was charged with misdemeanor and criminal damaging. He was accused of punching an 18-year-old male in the face and breaking a window in the individual's car. A warrant for Henry's arrest was issued and he surrendered the following day, a police spokesman said. In August 2008, the Bengals re-signed Henry. On December 17, 2009, Henry died from injuries sustained from an accident stemming from a domestic dispute between him and his fiancee.\n\nOn April 30, Terry \"Tank\" Johnson pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor weapons charge as part of an arrangement with prosecutors that will keep him from serving additional jail time. He was sentenced to 45 days in jail, which was served concurrently with a four-month sentence he was already serving in the Cook County Jail for violating his probation; to donate $2,500 to the Gurnee, Illinois Police Department and $2,500 to the Gurnee Exchange Club's child abuse prevention program.\nJohnson's release from jail on May 13 ended his legal problems from the December 2006 weapons incident. The league ultimately suspended Johnson for half of the regular season on June 4. However, he will have the opportunity to reduce the sentence to six games if he complies with Commissioner Goodell's guidelines of behavior, which include going to counseling.\n\nOn June 22, Johnson was pulled over speeding in Arizona. According to the police, he was stopped by the police after traveling at forty miles per hour in a twenty-five-mile per hour zone. He was later suspected of drinking, but was released without being booked or charged.\n\nOn June 25, 2007, Johnson was released from his contract by the Chicago Bears as a result of the June 22 incident. Bears General manager Jerry Angelo stated that he had \"no room for error left.\" The results of Johnson's blood tests were still pending when the Bears made their decision. On July 2, it was announced that Johnson was under the legal limit and will not be charged with driving under the influence.\n\nOn September 18, 2007, Johnson agreed to terms of a two-year contract with the Dallas Cowboys, but was unable to contact the team until week 9 of the 2007 NFL season.\n\nBeginning on April 25, 2007, a large house and surrounding property Michael Vick owned in rural Surry County, Virginia where his 26-year-old cousin Davon T. Boddie had been residing became part of a continuing police investigation for possible operation of an illegal dog fighting ring. The action came after police executed a search warrant following two narcotics arrests of Boddie within a week in the Virginia Peninsula cities of Newport News and Hampton (each about away from the Surry County property) earlier in April. Boddie had given the address of Vick's property in Surry County as his home address when arrested. Earlier, in February 2007, Boddie was convicted in the City of Norfolk of disorderly conduct. At that time, he was carrying a Georgia driver's license giving his address as a house in Duluth, Georgia which was once owned by Vick.\n\nAccording to ESPN, during the April 25 narcotics-related search of Vick's home and property at 1915 Moonlight Drive in the southeastern portion of Surry County, police discovered a large number of animals, and evidence which they felt indicated dog fighting. They called animal-control officers, who saw what they said was evidence that dogfights had taken place there. Police obtained another search warrant, and, with the help of animal control officials from several localities, removed 66 dogs, 55 of them pit bulls, and seized equipment and some physical evidence that could be associated with dog fighting. WAVY-TV reported that detectives also seized guns, illegal ammunition magazines, suspected marijuana and paperwork on dog fighting.\n\nVick, along with three others, was indicted by a federal grand jury on July 17, 2007 for \"conspiracy to travel in interstate commerce in aid of unlawful activities and to sponsor a dog in animal fighting venture\".\nThe 18-page federal indictment outlines an extensive operation which included not only unlawful fighting, but violence against dogs which did not perform well including executions by electrocution, hanging, and shooting, as well as involving tens of thousands of dollars in gambling activity. The four face $350,000 in fines and six years in prison if convicted of the federal charges. The operation was based at Vick's property near Smithfield, Virginia, valued at over $700,000, which could conceivably be forfeited to the government, as the indictment also puts them on notice that the government intends to take possession of property used in the illegal operations and any proceeds.\n\nIn late April 2007, Vick denied his involvement and told \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" \"I'm never at the house...I left the house with my family...They just haven't been doing the right thing... It's unfortunate I have to take the heat behind it. If I'm not there, I don't know what's going on.\"\n\nVick appeared in court on July 26, 2007 and pleaded not guilty, the same date that the Atlanta Falcons began training camp. Later, Vick filed a plea agreement, and admitted his guilt. Vick was suspended without pay \"indefinitely\" by the National Football League on August 24. On August 13, 2009, Vick signed a one-year contract with the Philadelphia Eagles. He was placed on the exempt/commissioner's permission list on September 5, 2009. On September 15, 2009, Vick was activated to the 53-man roster.\n\nOn July 17, 2009, a civil suit was filed in Washoe County, Nevada District Court accusing Ben Roethlisberger of sexually assaulting Andrea McNulty, 31, in June 2008 in his hotel room while he was in Lake Tahoe for a celebrity golf tournament. No charges were filed in the case.\n\nOn March 5, 2010, it was revealed that a woman from Milledgeville, Georgia had accused Roethlisberger of sexual assault. While Roethlisberger was once again not charged with a crime following the events at the nightclub, the league still suspended him for six games, which was later reduced to four. This was the first time in league history a player has been suspended under the personal conduct policy without being charged with a crime. Roethlisberger and Ezekiel Elliott are the only two players to have been suspended under this policy without being charged with a crime.\n\nOn February 15, 2014, Ray Rice and his fiancée Janay Palmer were arrested and charged with assault after a physical altercation at Revel Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Celebrity news website TMZ posted a video of Rice dragging Palmer's body out of an elevator after knocking her out. The Ravens issued a statement following TMZ's release of the video, calling Rice's domestic violence arrest a \"serious matter\". The matter is being handled by the Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office.\n\nOn March 27, 2014, a grand jury indicted Rice on third-degree aggravated assault, with a possible jail sentence of three to five years and a fine of up to $15,000. Rice married Palmer on March 28, 2014. For the incident, Rice was suspended for the first two games of the 2014 NFL season on July 25, 2014. The criminal charges were later dropped after Rice agreed to undergo court-supervised counseling. In a news conference announcing longer suspension lengths for future domestic violence incidents, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said that he \"didn't get it right\" in deciding Rice's punishment.\n\nOn September 8, 2014, TMZ released additional footage from an elevator camera showing Rice punching Palmer in the face. The Baltimore Ravens terminated Rice's contract as a result. Shortly afterward, Goodell announced that Rice had been suspended from the NFL indefinitely. He was reinstated on November 28, 2014, after winning an appeal.\n\nAdrian Peterson was indicted by a Montgomery County, Texas, grand jury on charges of reckless or negligent injury to a child on September 12, 2014. He was subsequently deactivated for one game by the Vikings. Photos posted on TMZ.com revealed his 4-year-old son's legs with slash-like wounds. The prosecution in the case alleges that Peterson used a tree branch to beat his young son repeatedly on his back, buttocks, genitals, ankles, and legs. In early November the Vikings' running back had entered a no contest plea. Adrian Peterson was also ordered to serve 80 hours worth of community service while also being placed on probation. However, later on in November 2014 the NFL suspended Peterson for the rest of the season without pay. On December 12, 2014 the NFL apparently had denied his appeal. Furthermore, the Vikings fans have apparently stated they'd like to have Peterson back but the running back isn't guaranteed to get any portion of his salary for the 2015 season.\n\nOn June 18, 2013, Aaron Hernandez's house in North Attleboro was searched by police for several hours in connection with an investigation into the shooting death of a friend, Odin Lloyd. Lloyd's body was found in an industrial park about a mile away from Hernandez's house with multiple gunshot wounds to the back and chest. The Massachusetts State Police obtained a search warrant after evidence surfaced that Hernandez intentionally destroyed his home security system. A cell phone belonging to Hernandez was turned over to police \"in pieces\" and Hernandez allegedly hired a \"team of house cleaners\" the same day Lloyd's body was discovered, raising additional suspicion.\n\nOn June 20, 2013, the \"Boston Herald\" reported that Hernandez had been \"barred\" from Gillette Stadium by the Patriots. According to NFL.com, Patriots owner Robert Kraft decided to have Patriots staff ask Hernandez to leave because he did not want Gillette to be \"the site of a media stakeout\". However, the \"Boston Globe\" reported that the Patriots front office had decided days before Hernandez's arrest that if Hernandez were arrested on any charge related to the case, even an obstruction of justice charge, he would be released.\n\nOn June 26, 2013, Hernandez was taken from his home in handcuffs and into police custody. The Patriots released Hernandez about 90 minutes later, before officially knowing the charges against him. Their press release stated: A young man was murdered last week and we extend our sympathies to the family and friends who mourn his loss. Words cannot express the disappointment we feel knowing that one of our players was arrested as a result of this investigation. We realize that law enforcement investigations into this matter are ongoing. We support their efforts and respect the process. At this time, we believe this transaction is simply the right thing to do.\n\nLater that day, Hernandez was charged with first-degree murder, in addition to five gun-related charges; if convicted of first-degree murder, Hernandez faced life in prison without the possibility of parole; Hernandez could not face the death penalty, as the state of Massachusetts abolished the death penalty in 1984. Instead, he was held without bail at the Bristol County Jail.\n\nTwo other men were also arrested in connection with Lloyd's death: Carlos Ortiz, on June 27, 2013, and Ernest Wallace on June 28, 2013. Ortiz revealed to the police that Hernandez had secretly rented an apartment in Franklin, Massachusetts. A subsequent search of the apartment, according to the Associated Press, \"turned up ammunition and clothing that police believe could be evidence in the murder case against him\".\n\nOn August 22, 2013, Aaron Hernandez was indicted by a grand jury for the murder of Odin Lloyd.\n\nOn September 6, 2013, Hernandez was arraigned and pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder. He was held without bail, but reserved the right to request bail later.\n\nOn April 15, 2015, Hernandez was found guilty of first-degree murder, as well as five weapon charges, automatically being sentenced to life in prison without possibility of parole.\n\nWhile on trial for Lloyd's murder, Hernandez was indicted for the 2012 double homicide of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado; he was acquitted of the double homicide after a 2017 trial. Five days after the acquittal, Hernandez was found dead in his cell by hanging, which was ruled a suicide. Due to the fact that his death occurred while the murder conviction was under appeal, the conviction was vacated.·§\n\nOn April 3, 2013, the NFL announced that Daryl Washington would be suspended for the first four games of the season for violating the league's substance policy.\n\nOn May 30, 2014, the NFL announced that Washington would be suspended for at least the 2014 season for once again violating the league's substance policy bringing his personal credibility and character into question after his statement from the 2013 violation: \"I promise to work even harder and to not let you guys down anymore.\"\n\nOn May 3, 2013, Washington was arrested in Phoenix, Arizona on two counts of aggravated assault (and one count of criminal trespass in the first-degree) from an incident on May 1, 2013 involving his 27-year-old ex-girlfriend with whom he shares a daughter. The altercation concerns a custody dispute over the 5-month-old child. Phoenix Police accuse him of pushing her with two hands, causing her to fall and break her right collarbone. On March 24, 2014, he pleaded guilty to the crime of aggravated assault, a class 6 felony. Washington was sentenced to one-year of supervised probation on April 23, 2014.\n\nOn Wednesday September 17, 2014 Jonathan Dwyer was arrested because of two incidents at Dwyer's home in southeast Phoenix on July 21 at 8 a.m. and July 22 at 4 p.m., according to the Phoenix Police Department. The incidents concerned attacks against his wife and 18-month-old child.\n\nDwyer was booked into Maricopa County Jail on one count of aggravated assault causing a fracture, one count of aggravated assault involving a minor, two counts of criminal damage, one count of preventing the use of a phone in an emergency, and assault. He was freed the next morning on a $25,000 cash bond and ordered to wear an electronic monitoring device. He was also banned from any contact with the alleged victims, travels outside of Arizona and any involvement with weapons, drugs or alcohol.\n\nDwyer admitted to the incidents during interviews with detectives but denied physically assaulting his wife and baby son. According to police, a search warrant was executed at his home.\n\nBefore the start of the 2015 NFL season, Martavis Bryant was suspended for four games in August for violating the league's substance abuse policy. He would return and play the rest of the season with the Steelers. During the suspension, he spent time in rehab in Houston. Bryant was charged with violating the substance abuse policy again, and suspended, this time for the entire 2016 NFL season.\n\nOn August 11, 2017, the NFL suspended Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott for the first six games of the 2017 season, despite the lead NFL investigator in the case reportedly recommending no suspension. His suspension stems from various off the field incidents including being accused of domestic violence in 2016 by his ex-girlfriend who claimed on five different occasions he assaulted her. Despite never being charged, the NFL launched a year long investigation into the allegations. In March 2017, Elliott was captured on video pulling down woman's shirt exposing her breasts while watching a St. Patrick's Day parade in Dallas. Four months later in July 2017 he was allegedly involved in an altercation at a nightclub during which a DJ’s nose was broken. Dallas police eventually suspended the investigation after they were unable to locate the victim. \n\nA Domestic Violence Policy has been put into effect after the Ray Rice domestic violence incident on August 28, 2014. Commissioner Roger Goodell has lengthen bans to six games for the first domestic violence incident and a lifetime ban for a second incident. This is after the NFL suspended Ray Rice for two games and receiving large amounts of criticism during the process.\n\nThe NFL has a history of inconsistently punishing domestic violence amongst its players. A majority of domestic violence violations are punished with about a 1.5 game suspension. The NFL rather has a consistent policy for punishing drug violations with performance-enhancing drugs and substance abuses averaging about 4 games suspension for the first offense and about 8 games suspension of performance-enhancing drugs and a 16 games suspension for substance abuse for a second offense.\n\nThe NFL has released a new Personal Conduct Policy on December 10, 2014. It is an updated version of the 2007 Personal Conduct Policy. It has added more infractions to the 2007 policy, which include violence against others and domestic violence. The disciplinary process is more detailed in terms of its investigative progress and consequences for infractions than its 2007 counterpart. The new policy will include counseling and treatment services for the offender and their victims.\n\nAs part of the domestic violence policy, the NFL will be educating high school students about domestic violence. The person inside the NFL that is in charge on working on domestic violence and sexual assault issues is Anna Isaacson, who Roger Goodell named the first vice president of social responsibility on September 15, 2014. She has created new training sessions for every player and league employee as well as convincing the NFL to put in $10 million for domestic violence advertisements. She also constructed a partnership between the NFL and the National Domestic Violence Hotline to fund more resources to the various call centers.\n\nThe new policy has been praised by both NFL players and sports columnists as a necessity to help improve the National Football League's image. The new policy—which also applies to coaches and front office personnel and has the support of NFLPA director Gene Upshaw—prompted questions and strong reactions among players.\nTeammates of Chris Henry, including safety Madieu Williams, approved of the measure.\n\nOakland Raiders defensive tackle Warren Sapp stated, \"I understand what they're doing. Some of these new-jack kids act like they're walking on water. Sometimes, they need to be slapped in the face to wake up.\"\n\nNew England Patriots owner Robert Kraft said of the policy, \"I hope this sends a message to people in our league for how to conduct themselves. We have to be careful. People in America can't relate to overindulged athletes not acting responsibly.\"\n\nMany considered the suspensions on Jones and Henry to be too harsh, especially Jones', which was enforced despite Jones having not been convicted of any crime. Criticism was also drawn at the commissioner's ability to punish the rest of the player's team and revoke draft picks. Goodell's actions are also leaving the league vulnerable to legal action from player's lawyers.\n\nWhen New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick and his staff were accused of illegally videotaping the New York Jets' defensive playcalling signals in September 2007, Belichick was not suspended, but instead fined $500,000. The team was penalized a first round draft pick in 2008 as they qualified for the playoffs with a perfect 16–0 record, but would have been penalized with a second and third round pick had they failed to make the playoffs. (The Patriots still ended up with the New Orleans Saints' first-round pick in a trade, selecting Jerod Mayo with the pick.) The move was heavily criticized as being a double standard. Although the videotaping is not considered to violate personal conduct rules, NFL players, including Cincinnati Bengals quarterback Carson Palmer were critical of Commissioner Goodell's move. When Goodell penalized Belichick, he determined that the use of the camera during the Patriots’ season-opening 38-14 win over the New York Jets had no impact on the game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1697560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697560", "title": "Negative equity", "text": "Negative equity\n\nNegative equity occurs when the value of an asset used to secure a loan is less than the outstanding balance on the loan. In the United States, assets (particularly real estate, whose loans are mortgages) with negative equity are often referred to as being \"underwater\", and loans and borrowers with negative equity are said to be \"upside down\". \n\nPeople and companies alike may have negative equity, as reflected on their balance sheets.\n\nIn the owner-occupied housing market, a fall in the market value of a mortgaged house or apartment/flat is the usual cause of negative equity. It may occur when the property owner obtains second-mortgage home-equity loans, causing the combined loans to exceed the home value, or simply because the original mortgage was too generous. If the borrower defaults, repossession and sale of the property by the lender will not raise enough cash to repay the amount outstanding, and the borrower will still be in debt as well as having lost the property. Some US states like California require lenders to choose between going after the borrower or taking repossession, but not both.\n\nThe term negative equity was widely used in the United Kingdom during the economic recession between 1991 and 1996, and in Hong Kong between 1998 and 2003. These recessions led to increased unemployment and a decline in property prices, which in turn led to an increase in repossessions by banks and building societies of properties worth less than the outstanding debt.\n\nIt is also common for negative equity to occur when the value of a property drops shortly after its purchase. This occurs frequently in automobile loans, where the market value of a car might drop by 20-30% as soon as the car is driven off the lot.\n\nWhile typically a result of fluctuating asset prices, negative equity can occur when the value of the asset stays fixed and the loan balance increases because loan payments are less than the interest, a situation known as negative amortization. The typical assets securing such loans are real property – commercial, office or residential. When the loan is nonrecourse, the lender can only look to the security, that is, the value of the property, when the borrower fails to repay the loan.\n\nSince 2007, those most exposed to negative equity are borrowers who obtained loans of a high percentage of the property value (such as 90% or even 100%). These were commonly available before the credit crunch. Such cases are of course the most at risk from falls in property value.\n\nA person who has negative equity can be said to have \"negative net worth\", where the person's liabilities exceed their assets. One might come to have negative equity as a result of taking out a substantial, unsecured loan. For example, one might use a student loan to pursue higher education. Although education increases the likelihood of higher future earnings, potential alone is not a financial asset. \n\nIn the United States, student loans are rarely dischargeable in bankruptcy, and typically lenders provide student loans without requiring security. This stands in contrast to lenders requiring borrowers to have an equity stake in a comparably-sized real estate loan, as described above, secured by both a down payment and a mortgage. An explanation for the willingness of creditors to provide unsecured student loans is that, in a practical sense, American student loans are secured by the borrower's future earnings. This is so since creditors may legally garnish wages when a borrower defaults.\n\nA home owner who is under water might be financially incapable of selling their current house and buying another one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45498419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45498419", "title": "New Qing History", "text": "New Qing History\n\nThe New Qing History is a school of thought that gained prominence in the United States in the mid-1990s by offering a wide-ranging revision of history of the Manchu Qing dynasty. Earlier historians had emphasized the power of Han Chinese to “sinicize” their conquerors, that is, to assimilate and make them Chinese in their thought and institutions. In the 1980s and early 1990s, American scholars began to learn Manchu and took advantage of newly opened Chinese- and Manchu-language archives. This research found that the Manchu rulers were savvy in manipulating their subjects and from the 1630s through at least the 18th century, emperors developed a sense of Manchu identity and used Central Asian models of rule as much as they did Confucian ones. According to some scholars, at the height of their power, the Qing regarded \"China\" as only a part, although a very important part, of a much wider empire that extended into the Inner Asian territories of Mongolia, Tibet, the Northeast (today sometimes called Manchuria) and Xinjiang, or Chinese (Eastern) Turkestan.\n\nSome scholars criticize the approach for exaggerating the Manchu character of the dynasty, and some in China accuse the American historians in the group of imposing American concerns with race and identity or even of imperialist misunderstanding to weaken China. Still others in China agree that this scholarship has opened new vistas for the study of Qing history.\n\nThe use of \"New Qing History\" as an approach is to be distinguished from the \"New Qing History\", a multi-volume history of the Qing dynasty that was authorized by the Chinese State Council in 2003.\n\nProminent scholars who have been associated with the New Qing History, including Evelyn Rawski, Mark Elliott, Pamela Kyle Crossley, Laura Hostetler, Philippe Forêt, and others, despite differing among themselves on important points, represent an \"Inner Asian\" and \"Eurasian\" turn, which conceived the Manchu-centered Qing as fundamentally different from most earlier dynasties but as similar to the Ottoman, Mogul, and Romanov Empires across the Eurasian landmass. They argued that the Qing saw itself as a universal empire, a multi-national polity, which with China as only the most central and economically important component. They date the founding of the empire from 1636, when the dynasty was proclaimed, rather than from 1644, when the Qing took control of Beijing. The historians argued that \"Manchu\" identity was deliberately created only after the takeover of China and that the new racial identity was important but \"fungible,\" easily exchanged for others. The first rulers of the dynasty played the Confucian role of Son of Heaven but at the same time, often behind the backs of their Han Chinese ministers, adopted other roles to rule other ethnic groups.\n\nThe military expansion of frontiers, which Han Chinese ministers often opposed, as it drained resources from China proper, showed that the Qing empire was not only a victim of imperialism but also practiced imperialism itself. Some of the historians followed Evelyn Rawski calling the Qing \"Early Modern,\" rather than \"late imperial,\" on the grounds that the Manchus created a centralized empire that the Ming could not have created.\n\nThe origins of the New Qing History lie in Inner Asian Studies. A Harvard scholar, Joseph Fletcher, studied the languages and culture of Central Asia. He was among those to discredit the idea that nearly all Manchu documents were translations from Chinese and that they would add little to the record. He wrote in 1981, \"Qing scholars who want to do first-class work in the archives must, from now on, learn Manchu and routinely compare the Manchu and Chinese sources for their topics of research.\" Beatrice Bartlett, a Yale historian who had studied Manchu with Fletcher, reported in an article, 'Books of Revelations', that the archives in Taiwan and Beijing revealed many secrets, which required knowledge of Manchu.\n\nThe Grand Council of the Yongzheng emperor operated only in Manchu until the 1730s, and many other important edicts and memorials did not have Chinese translations. Official use of the language, she argued, did not decline during the 19th century. She concluded that the archives of Manchu materials were more likely to be complete, as they were less likely to have been raided, weeded or lost.\n\nThe New Qing History took on distinct form in the mid-1990s. In 1993, Crossley and Rawski summarized the arguments for using Manchu-language materials, materials, which they and others had explored in the newly opened archives in Beijing and were beginning to use in their publications. Evelyn Rawski's presidential address, \"Re-envisioning the Qing: The Significance of the Qing Period in Chinese History,\" at the annual meeting of the Association for Asian Studies in 1996, particularly criticized the question of the \"sinicization\" of the Qing that had been raised by Ping-ti Ho in his 1967 article \"The Significance of the Ch'ing Period in Chinese History.\" Rawski's thought was based on a Manchu-centric concept of history and indicated that the reason the Qing rulers could successfully govern China for nearly 300 years was not the result of sinicization, adopting the characteristics of Han Chinese rule and culture, but by their focus on retaining the characteristics of Manchu culture. They used such characteristics to strengthen relations with other nationalities to build a multiracial empire that included Manchu, Han, Mongol, Tibetan, Uyghur and other nationalities. For better governing his multiethnic empire, for instance, the Kangxi emperor located his summer residence in the Chengde Mountain Resort, north of the Great Wall. That became the historical core of city of Chengde, which the Qianlong emperor enlarged considerably, including a replica of the Potala Palace in Lhasa.\n\nIn response, Ping-ti Ho published \"In Defense of Sinicization: A Rebuttal of Evelyn Rawski's 'Re-envisioning the Qing'\". He argued that the pattern of Chinese history was for a conquest dynasty to adopt Chinese ways of rule and culture and attacked Rawski for Manchu-centrism.\n\nThe school that is now known as the \"New Qing History\" developed after the debate. In 2011, historian Huang Pei published a monograph that developed the objections stated by Ho Ping-ti. \n\nThere are differences among the scholars in the loose group. For example, Rawski's \"Re-envisioning the Qing\" and Elliott’s \"The Manchu Way\" regard the Qing as a Manchu empire, with China being only one part. Nevertheless, Pamela Kyle Crossley sees the empire not as a Manchu empire but as a \"simultaneous\" system in which the rulership is not subordinate to the Chinese or any other single culture. She criticized the \"Manchu-centered\" school for romanticism and a reliance upon disproved theories about \"Altaic\" language and history, but she seems to include herself in the Qing empire school, which she calls \"Qing Studies.\"\n\nIn 2015, historian Richard J. Smith reported that an interpretive \"middle ground\" had emerged between the views of Rawski and Crossley, on one hand, and Ho and Huang, on the other. Smith himself had come to the conclusion that \"the Qing empire\" and \"China\" were not the same thing and that the Qing had to be placed in not only a Manchu context but one that included Inner Asia in general and that saw China in a global field. The less \"sinocentric\" view, Smith continued, which placed less emphasis on \"sinicization,\" had won over most Western scholars on China, in spite of debates over \"matters of degree.\"\n\nThe arguments put forward in the New Qing History inspired debate on a number of specific points.\n\nThe scholar Zhao Gang responded against the revisionist historians by noting that they claimed that the Qing used only \"China\" (中國) to encompass only Han people (漢人) and \"China proper\" and pointed out that in fact that China proper and Han people were not synonymous with \"China\" in the Qing view according to Mark Elliott's own work. The Han dynasty used Zhongguo (中國) to refer only to Han areas, but the Qing dynasty reinvented the definition of Zhongguo (中國) to refer to non-Han areas as well. Zhao Gang cited Qing documents with Qing being used for the Manchu term Dulimbai Gurun (a direct translation of \"中國\", Zhongguo; \"Middle Kingdom\") in Manchu texts and Zhongguo in Chinese texts to refer to the entire Qing including Manchuria, Xinjiang, Mongolia, and Tibet as \"China\", in official documents, edicts, treaties, in texts like the Treaty of Nerchinsk, Convention of Kyakhta (1768), a 1755 pronouncement by the Qianlong Emperor, and a Manchu language memorial on the conquest of Dzungaria, and Qianlong's arguments for the annexation of Xinjiang, and in Qianlong's sinicization policies in parts of Xinjiang.\n\nMark Elliott wrote that it was under the Qing that \"China\" transformed into a definition of referring to lands where the \"state claimed sovereignty,\" rather than only the Central Plains area and its people by the end of the 18th century.\n\nElena Barabantseva has also noted that the Manchu referred to all subjects of the Qing empire regardless of ethnicity as \"Chinese\" (中國之人), and they used the term Zhongguo (中國) as a synonym for the entire Qing empire but used \"Hanren\" (漢人) to refer only to the core area of the empire, with the entire empire viewed as multiethnic.\n\nJoseph W. Esherick observes that while the Qing Emperors governed frontier non-Han areas in a different, separate system under the Lifan Yuan and kept them separate from Han areas and administration, it was the Manchu Qing Emperors who expanded the definition of Zhongguo (中國) and made it \"flexible\" by using that term to refer to the entire empire.\n\nScholars have disagreed on whether or how much the Manchu rulers used new forms of imperial ritual to display new forms of empire or continued rituals from the Ming to show that they saw themselves as heirs of a Han Chinese empire. Roger Des Forges' review of David M. Robinson's \"Martial Spectacles of the Ming Court\" criticized scholars of conquest dynasties and New Qing History and disagreed with the idea that the \"Royal hunt\" was a differing factor between Han Chinese and conquest dynasties. He noted that the martial themed Ming dynasty Grand Review was copied by the Qing and disagreed with those who sought to present it as a Qing feature. He praised Robinson in differing from scholars who selected certain Ming and Qing emperors to contrast their difference and for not conflating Han with \"Chinese\" and not translating the term \"Zhongguo\".\n\nThe New Qing History, according to Tristan G. Brown, writing in 2011, did not explore the example of Islam and Muslims to test their argument that the early Qing emperors aspired to be universal monarchs. Brown finds that an inscription by the Qianlong emperor showed that he wanted to incorporate both Xinjiang and Islam into his empire and that this inscription, along with the \"inventive structural duality of Chinese-Islamic architecture with Central Asian Turkish-Islamic architectural forms,\" makes the \"most compelling case\" that New Qing History is also applicable to Chinese Islam.\n\nIn the journal \"Chinese Social Sciences Today\", an official publication of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Li Zhiting, a scholar working on the National Qing Dynasty Compilation Committee, charged that \"'New Qing History' is academically absurd, and politically does damage to the unity of China...\" He sought to \"expose its mask of pseudo-academic scholarship, eliminating the deleterious effect it has had on scholarship in China.\" Li went on to charge that the \"whole range of views [New Qing History scholars] express are cliches and stereotypes, little more than dusted off versions in a scholarly tone of the Western imperialism and Japanese imperialism of the 19th century.\" American scholars such as Evelyn Rawski, Pamela Crossley, Mark Elliott, and James Millward, Li continued, \"view the history of China from an imperialist standpoint, with imperialist points of view and imperialist eyes, regarding 'traditional' China as an 'empire,' regarding the Qing dynasty as 'Qing dynasty imperialism.'\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4957612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4957612", "title": "Nike Grind", "text": "Nike Grind\n\nNike Grind is part of Nike's Reuse-A-Shoe program that was started in 1993. The purpose of the program is to eliminate waste and close the loop on Nike's product lifecycle by collecting post-consumer, non-metal-containing athletic shoes of any brand. This includes Nike shoes that are returned due to material or workmanship defects.\n\nOnce collected, the sneakers are ground up and separated into three distinct types of material: rubber from the outsole, foam from the midsole and fabric from the shoe's upper. Nike and its partners (Atlas Track & Tennis, Playtop, Training Ground, Everlast and Rebound Ace) take the granulated rubber and create soccer, football, baseball fields, weight room flooring and running tracks. The first synthetic turf soccer field installed with Nike Grind rubber was Douglas Park in Chicago. That surface was donated by Nike and the U.S. Soccer Foundation.\nNike uses the granulated foam from the shoes for synthetic basketball courts, tennis courts and playground surfacing tiles. The granulated fabric from the shoe uppers becomes the padding under hardwood basketball floors.\n\nThese programs are located in Australia, Canada, Japan, United Kingdom, and United States.\n\nThere are two Nike Grind processing plants, one located in the United States and the other in Belgium. The American facility uses a \"slice and grind\" technique, where each shoe is cut into three slices that contain the main materials. These slices are fed through grinders and purified to become the different types of material. The Belgian facility grinds the shoes whole, and passes the resulting material through a series of separators for the same three groups of material.\n\n"}
{"id": "4166761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166761", "title": "Paramountcy", "text": "Paramountcy\n\nThe doctrine of paramountcy is the legal principle that reconciles contradicting or conflicting laws in a federalist state, where both the central government, and the provincial or state governments, have the power to create laws in relation to the same matters. In a case where both central and state law exist, central laws will be given priority over state laws through the doctrine of supremacy. This is usually applied in cases of post-colonial indirect rule.\n\nIn feudalism, paramountcy is a matter of Suzerainty, generally vested in a sovereign Monarch, as the summit of a vassallic pyramid of subject entities.\nThus the Mughal badshah (emperor) was the overlord, directly or indirectly, of many native princely states in pre-colonial India.\n\nIn the colonial age and system, paramountcy could similarly be vested in (the crown) of the colonizing imperial power, insofar as it practices indirect rule over native rulers, but could also be delegated to chartered company.\nThus the British paramountcy in British India over its princely states (first by the chartered British East India Company, later by the Colonial Office of the British imperial government) replaced or imitated the Mughal overlordship over a similar, growing list of native states, while some would be annexed. Similarly, the Dutch (first the VOIC, later the government) assumed suzerain paramountcy over the native rulers in the Dutch East Indies.\n\n"}
{"id": "78214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78214", "title": "Permaculture", "text": "Permaculture\n\nPermaculture is a set of design principles centered around whole systems thinking simulating or directly utilizing the patterns and resilient features observed in natural ecosystems. It uses these principles in a growing number of fields from regenerative agriculture, rewilding to community and organizational design and development.\n\nWith its system of applied education, research and citizen- led design permaculture has grown a popular web of global networks and developed into a global social movement.\n\nThe term permaculture was developed and coined by David Holmgren, then a graduate student at the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education's Department of Environmental Design, and Bill Mollison, senior lecturer in Environmental Psychology at University of Tasmania, in 1978. The word \"permaculture\" originally referred to \"permanent agriculture\", but was expanded to stand also for \"permanent culture\", as it was understood that social aspects were integral to a truly sustainable system as inspired by Masanobu Fukuoka’s natural farming philosophy.\n\nIt has many branches that include, but are not limited to, ecological design, ecological engineering, regenerative design, environmental design, and construction. Permaculture also includes integrated water resources management that develops sustainable architecture, and regenerative and self-maintained habitat and agricultural systems modelled from natural ecosystems.\n\nMollison has said: \"Permaculture is a philosophy of working with, rather than against nature; of protracted and thoughtful observation rather than protracted and thoughtless labor; and of looking at plants and animals in all their functions, rather than treating any area as a single product system.\"\n\nThe 12 principles of permaculture most commonly referred to are first described by David Holmgren in his book \"Permaculture: Principles and Pathways Beyond Sustainability\" (2002). They include: Observe and Interact, Catch and Store Energy, Obtain a Yield, Apply Self Regulation and Accept Feedback, Use and Value Renewable Resources and Services, Produce No Waste, Design From Patterns to Details, Integrate Rather Than Segregate, Use Small and Slow Solutions, Use and Value Diversity, Use Edges and Value the Marginal, and Creatively Use and Respond to Change.\n\nSeveral individuals revolutionized the branch of permaculture. In 1929, Joseph Russell Smith added an antecedent term as the subtitle for \"Tree Crops: A Permanent Agriculture\", a book which sums up his long experience experimenting with fruits and nuts as crops for human food and animal feed. Smith saw the world as an inter-related whole and suggested mixed systems of trees and crops underneath. This book inspired many individuals intent on making agriculture more sustainable, such as Toyohiko Kagawa who pioneered forest farming in Japan in the 1930s.\n\nIn Australian P.A. Yeomans' 1964 book \"Water for Every Farm\", he supports the definition of permanent agriculture, as one that can be sustained indefinitely. Yeomans introduced both an observation-based approach to land use in Australia in the 1940s and the Keyline Design as a way of managing the supply and distribution of water in the 1950s.\n\nHolmgren noted Stewart Brand’s works as an early influence to permaculture. Other early influences include Ruth Stout and Esther Deans, who pioneered no-dig gardening, and Masanobu Fukuoka who, in the late 1930s in Japan, began advocating no-till orchards and gardens and natural farming.\nIn the late 1960s, Bill Mollison and David Holmgren started developing ideas about stable agricultural systems on the southern Australian island state of Tasmania. Dangers of the rapidly growing use of industrial-agricultural methods sparked these ideas. In their view, these methods were highly dependent on non-renewable resources, and were additionally poisoning land and water, reducing biodiversity, and removing billions of tons of topsoil from previously fertile landscapes. They responded with a design approach called \"permaculture.\" This term was first made public with their publication of their 1978 book \"Permaculture One\".\n\nAmong some of the more recognizable names who received their original training within Mollison's PDC system would include Geoff Lawton and Toby Hemenway, each of whom have more than 25 years experience teaching and promoting permaculture as a sustainable way of growing food. Simon J Fjell was a Founding Director of the Permaculture Institute in late 1979 and a teacher of the first Permaculture Design Course, having first met Mollison in 1976. He has since worked internationally and is currently listing a major social enterprise on NASDAQ.\n\nBy the early 1980s, the concept had broadened from agricultural systems design towards sustainable human habitats. After \"Permaculture One\", Mollison further refined and developed the ideas by designing hundreds of permaculture sites and writing more detailed books, such as \"Permaculture: A Designers Manual\". Mollison lectured in over 80 countries and taught his two-week Permaculture Design Course (PDC) to hundreds of students. Mollison \"encouraged graduates to become teachers themselves and set up their own institutes and demonstration sites. This multiplier effect was critical to permaculture’s rapid expansion.\"\n\nThe permaculture movement also spread throughout Asia and Central America, with Hong Kong-based Asian Institute of Sustainable Architecture (AISA), Rony Lec leading the foundation of the Mesoamerican Permaculture Institute (IMAP) in Guatemala and Juan Rojas co-founding the Permaculture Institute of El Salvador.\n\nThe three core tenets of permaculture are:\n\nPermaculture design emphasizes patterns of landscape, function, and species assemblies. It determines where these elements should be placed so they can provide maximum benefit to the local environment. Permaculture maximizes useful connections between components and synergy of the final design. The focus of permaculture, therefore, is not on each separate element, but rather on the relationships created among elements by the way they are placed together; the whole becomes greater than the sum of its parts. Permaculture design therefore seeks to minimize waste, human labor, and energy input by building systems, and maximizes benefits between design elements to achieve a high level of synergy. Permaculture designs evolve over time by taking into account these relationships and elements and can evolve into extremely complex systems that produce a high density of food and materials with minimal input.\n\nThe design principles, which are the conceptual foundation of permaculture, were derived from the science of systems ecology and study of pre-industrial examples of sustainable land use. Permaculture draws from several disciplines including organic farming, agroforestry, integrated farming, sustainable development, and applied ecology. Permaculture has been applied most commonly to the design of housing and landscaping, integrating techniques such as agroforestry, natural building, and rainwater harvesting within the context of permaculture design principles and theory. \n\nTwelve Permaculture design principles articulated by David Holmgren in his \"Permaculture: Principles and Pathways Beyond Sustainability\":\n\nLayers are one of the tools used to design functional ecosystems that are both sustainable and of direct benefit to humans. A mature ecosystem has a huge number of relationships between its component parts: trees, understory, ground cover, soil, fungi, insects, and animals. Because plants grow to different heights, a diverse community of life is able to grow in a relatively small space, as the vegetation occupies different layers. There are generally seven recognized layers in a food forest, although some practitioners also include fungi as an eighth layer.\n\nA guild is a group of species where each provides a unique set of diverse functions that work in conjunction or harmony. There are many forms of guilds, including guilds of plants with similar functions that could interchange within an ecosystem, but the most common perception is that of a mutual support guild. Mutual support guilds are groups of plants, animals, insects, etc. that work well together. Plants may be grown for food production, draw nutrients from deep in the soil through tap roots, are nitrogen-fixing legumes, attract beneficial insects, and repel harmful insects. When grouped together in a mutually beneficial arrangement, these plants form a guild. See Dave Jacke's work on edible forest gardens for more information on other guilds, specifically resource-partitioning and community-function guilds.\n\nThe edge effect in ecology is the effect of the juxtaposition, or placing contrasting environments on an ecosystem. Permaculturists argue that where vastly differing systems meet, there is an intense area of productivity and useful connections. An example of this is the coast; where the land and the sea meet, there is a particularly rich area that meets a disproportionate percentage of human and animal needs. This idea is played out in permacultural designs by using spirals in herb gardens, or creating ponds that have wavy undulating shorelines rather than a simple circle or oval (thereby increasing the amount of edge for a given area).\n\nZones intelligently organize design elements in a human environment based on the frequency of human use and plant or animal needs. Frequently manipulated or harvested elements of the design are located close to the house in zones 1 and 2. Manipulated elements located further away are used less frequently. Zones are numbered from 0 to 5 based on positioning.\n\nPermaculture uses observation of nature to create regenerative systems, and the place where this has been most visible has been on the landscape. There has been a growing awareness though that firstly, there is the need to pay more attention to the peoplecare ethic, as it is often the dynamics of people that can interfere with projects, and secondly that the principles of permaculture can be used as effectively to create vibrant, healthy and productive people and communities as they have been in landscapes.\n\nDomesticated animals are often incorporated into site design, ensuring the efficiency and productivity of the system.Animals, domestic or wild are a critical component of any wild or designed sustainable ecosystem. Research indicates that without the animal’s participation and contribution, ecological integrity is diminished or impossible. Some of the activities that contribute to the system include: foraging to cycle nutrients, clear fallen fruit, weed maintenance, spreading seeds, and pest maintenance. The nutrients are cycled by animals, transformed from their less digestible form (such as grass or twigs) into more nutrient-dense manure.\n\nSeveral animals can be incorporated into a permaculture system, including cows, goats, chickens, geese, turkey, rabbits, and worms. A more specific explanation of how the animals can be used is seen in the chicken design. Chickens can be used to scratch over the soil, thus breaking down the top soil and using the fecal matter as manure creating a sustainable system. However, in the domestication of these animals, the complexity and elegance lie in an effectiveness and efficiency of the design, including factors like timing and habits to specific areas of a farm. For example, animals require daily attention in a way that is much more demanding than plants.\n\nAgroforestry is an integrated approach of permaculture, which uses the interactive benefits from combining trees and shrubs with crops or livestock. It combines agricultural and forestry technologies to create more diverse, productive, profitable, healthy and sustainable land-use systems. In agroforestry systems, trees or shrubs are intentionally used within agricultural systems, or non-timber forest products are cultured in forest settings.\n\nForest gardening is a term permaculturalists use to describe systems designed to mimic natural forests. Forest gardens, like other permaculture designs, incorporate processes and relationships that the designers understand to be valuable in natural ecosystems. The terms forest garden and food forest are used interchangeably in the permaculture literature. Numerous permaculturists are proponents of forest gardens, such as Graham Bell, Patrick Whitefield, Dave Jacke, Eric Toensmeier and Geoff Lawton. Bell started building his forest garden in 1991 and wrote the book \"The Permaculture Garden\" in 1995, Whitefield wrote the book \"How to Make a Forest Garden\" in 2002, Jacke and Toensmeier co-authored the two volume book set \"Edible Forest Gardening\" in 2005, and Lawton presented the film \"Establishing a Food Forest\" in 2008.\n\nTree Gardens, such as Kandyan tree gardens, in South and Southeast Asia, are often hundreds of years old. It is not self-evident whether these tree gardens derived initially from experiences of cultivation and forestry, as is the case in agroforestry, or whether they derived from an understanding of forest ecosystems, as is the case for permaculture systems. Many studies of these systems, especially those that predate the term permaculture, consider these systems to be forms of agroforestry. Permaculturalists may obscure the distinction of permaculture and agroforestry when they include existing and ancient systems of polycropping as examples of food forests.\n\nFood forests and agroforestry are parallel approaches that sometimes lead to similar designs.\n\nHügelkultur is the practice of burying large volumes of wood to increase soil water retention. The porous structure of wood acts as a sponge when decomposing underground. During the rainy season, masses of buried wood can absorb enough water to sustain crops through the dry season. This technique has been used by permaculturalists Sepp Holzer, Toby Hemenway, Paul Wheaton, and Masanobu Fukuoka.\n\nA natural building involves a range of building systems and materials that place major emphasis on sustainability. Ways of achieving sustainability through natural building focus on durability and the use of minimally processed, plentiful or renewable resources, as well as those that, while recycled or salvaged, produce healthy living environments and maintain indoor air quality.\n\nThe basis of natural building is the need to lessen the environmental impact of buildings and other supporting systems, without sacrificing comfort, health, or aesthetics. Natural building primarily utilizes abundantly available natural materials (e.g., clay, rock, sand, straw, wood, reeds), and draws heavily on traditional architectural strategies from various climates across the world. In addition to relying on natural building materials, the emphasis on the architectural design is heightened. The orientation of a building, the utilization of local climate and site conditions, the emphasis on natural ventilation through design, fundamentally lessen operational costs and positively impact the environment. Building compactly and minimizing the ecological footprint is common, as are on-site handling of energy acquisition, on-site water capture, alternate sewage treatment, and water reuse. Most materials are sourced regionally, locally, or even on-site. Straw bales, and various earthen masonry techniques such as adobe bricks, cob (or monolithic adobe), rammed earth and clay-straw infill are common choices for wall material. Roofing coverings often used include sod or \"living\" roofs, thatch, and wooden shakes or shingles. Rubble trench foundations are popular, as they do not require concrete; likewise, dry-stacked or lime mortared stem walls are common. Natural builders also regularly combine different wall systems in a single building, making best use of different materials' thermal or water resistant properties, for example, where they are most needed in the structure.\n\nRainwater harvesting is the accumulating and storing of rainwater for reuse before it reaches the aquifer. It has been used to provide drinking water, water for livestock, water for irrigation, as well as other typical uses. Rainwater collected from the roofs of houses and local institutions can make an important contribution to the availability of drinking water. It can supplement the subsoil water level and increase urban greenery. Water collected from the ground, sometimes from areas which are especially prepared for this purpose, is called stormwater harvesting.\n\nGreywater is wastewater generated from domestic activities such as laundry, dishwashing, and bathing, which can be recycled on-site for uses such as landscape irrigation and constructed wetlands. Greywater is largely sterile, but not potable (drinkable). Greywater differs from water from the toilets, which is designated sewage or blackwater to indicate it contains human waste. Blackwater is septic or otherwise toxic and cannot easily be reused. There are, however, continuing efforts to make use of blackwater or human waste. The most notable is for composting through a process known as humanure; a combination of the words human and manure. Additionally, the methane in humanure can be collected and used similar to natural gas as a fuel, such as for heating or cooking, and is commonly referred to as biogas. Biogas can be harvested from the human waste and the remainder still used as humanure. Some of the simplest forms of humanure use include a composting toilet or an outhouse or dry bog surrounded by trees that are heavy feeders which can be coppiced for wood fuel. This process eliminates the use of a standard toilet with plumbing.\n\nIn agriculture and gardening, mulch is a protective cover placed over the soil. Any material or combination can be used as mulch, such as stones, leaves, cardboard, wood chips, gravel, etc., though in permaculture mulches of organic material are the most common because they perform more functions. These include absorbing rainfall, reducing evaporation, providing nutrients, increasing organic matter in the soil, feeding and creating habitat for soil organisms, suppressing weed growth and seed germination, moderating diurnal temperature swings, protecting against frost, and reducing erosion. Sheet mulching is an agricultural no-dig gardening technique that attempts to mimic natural processes occurring within forests. Sheet mulching mimics the leaf cover that is found on forest floors. When deployed properly and in combination with other Permacultural principles, it can generate healthy, productive and low maintenance ecosystems.\n\nSheet mulch serves as a \"nutrient bank,\" storing the nutrients contained in organic matter and slowly making these nutrients available to plants as the organic matter slowly and naturally breaks down. It also improves the soil by attracting and feeding earthworms, slaters and many other soil micro-organisms, as well as adding humus. Earthworms \"till\" the soil, and their worm castings are among the best fertilizers and soil conditioners. Sheet mulching can be used to reduce or eliminate non-desired plants by starving them of light, and can be more advantageous than using herbicide or other methods of control. \n\nGrazing has long been blamed for much of the destruction we see in the environment. However, it has been shown that when grazing is modeled after nature, the opposite effect can be seen. Also known as cell grazing, managed intensive rotational grazing (MIRG) is a system of grazing in which ruminant and non-ruminant herds or flocks are regularly and systematically moved to fresh pasture, range, or forest with the intent to maximize the quality and quantity of forage growth. This disturbance is then followed by a period of rest which allows new growth. MIRG can be used with cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, chickens, rabbits, geese, turkeys, ducks, and other animals depending on the natural ecological community that is being mimicked. Sepp Holzer and Joel Salatin have shown how the disturbance caused by the animals can be the spark needed to start ecological succession or prepare ground for planting. Allan Savory's holistic management technique has been likened to \"a permaculture approach to rangeland management\". One variation on MIRG that is gaining rapid popularity is called eco-grazing. Often used to either control invasives or re-establish native species, in eco-grazing the primary purpose of the animals is to benefit the environment and the animals can be, but are not necessarily, used for meat, milk or fiber.\n\nKeyline design is a technique for maximizing the beneficial use of water resources of a piece of land developed in Australia by farmer and engineer P. A. Yeomans. The \"Keyline\" refers to a specific topographic feature linked to water flow which is used in designing the drainage system of the site. The essential factor in this system, the Keyline, is a level or sloping line extending in both directions from a point or divides the two types of relationship, always in the same vertical interval, that a valley bears to its ridges.\n\nSome proponents of permaculture advocate no, or limited, pruning. One advocate of this approach is Sepp Holzer who used the method in connection with Hügelkultur berms. He has successfully grown several varieties of fruiting trees at altitudes (approximately ) far above their normal altitude, temperature, and snow load ranges. He notes that the Hügelkultur berms kept or generated enough heat to allow the roots to survive during alpine winter conditions. The point of having unpruned branches, he notes, was that the longer (more naturally formed) branches bend over under the snow load until they touched the ground, thus forming a natural arch against snow loads that would break a shorter, pruned, branch.\n\nMasanobu Fukuoka, as part of early experiments on his family farm in Japan, experimented with no-pruning methods, noting that he ended up killing many fruit trees by simply letting them go, which made them become convoluted and tangled, and thus unhealthy. Then he realised this is the difference between natural-form fruit trees and the process of change of tree form that results from abandoning previously-pruned unnatural fruit trees. He concluded that the trees should be raised all their lives without pruning, so they form healthy and efficient branch patterns that follow their natural inclination. This is part of his implementation of the Tao-philosophy of Wú wéi translated in part as no-action (against nature), and he described it as no unnecessary pruning, nature farming or \"do-nothing\" farming, of fruit trees, distinct from non-intervention or literal no-pruning. He ultimately achieved yields comparable to or exceeding standard/intensive practices of using pruning and chemical fertilisation.\n\nPermaculture Action\n\nPermaculture helps generate plans that are easy and cheap when it comes to production. Permaculture allows creativity and innovation in farming. The action of permaculture looks and all becoming consciously involved in the process of producing and ensuring abundant food nearby, problem on malnutrition caused by the world hunger problem will inevitably lessen. Permaculture principles in action are powerful forces to help right the environmental wrongs of the last two centuries.\n\nThere has been contention over who, if anyone, controls legal rights to the word \"permaculture\": is it trademarked or copyrighted? If so, who holds the legal rights to the use of the word? For a long time Bill Mollison claimed to have copyrighted the word, and his books said on the copyright page, \"The contents of this book and the word PERMACULTURE are copyright.\" These statements were largely accepted at face value within the permaculture community. However, copyright law does not protect names, ideas, concepts, systems, or methods of doing something; it only protects the expression or the description of an idea, not the idea itself. Eventually Mollison acknowledged that he was mistaken and that no copyright protection existed for the word \"permaculture\".\n\nIn 2000, Mollison's US based Permaculture Institute sought a service mark (a form of trademark) for the word \"permaculture\" when used in educational services such as conducting classes, seminars, or workshops. The service mark would have allowed Mollison and his two Permaculture Institutes (one in the US and one in Australia) to set enforceable guidelines regarding how permaculture could be taught and who could teach it, particularly with relation to the PDC, despite the fact that he had instituted a system of certification of teachers to teach the PDC in 1993. The service mark failed and was abandoned in 2001. Also in 2001 Mollison applied for trademarks in Australia for the terms \"Permaculture Design Course\" and \"Permaculture Design\". These applications were both withdrawn in 2003. In 2009 he sought a trademark for \"Permaculture: A Designers’ Manual\" and \"Introduction to Permaculture\", the names of two of his books. These applications were withdrawn in 2011. There has never been a trademark for the word \"permaculture\" in Australia.\n\nIn 2011, Owen Hablutzel argued that \"permaculture has yet to gain a large amount of specific mainstream scientific acceptance,\" and that \"the sensitiveness to being perceived and accepted on scientific terms is motivated in part by a desire for permaculture to expand and become increasingly relevant.\"\n\nIn his books \"Sustainable Freshwater Aquaculture\" and \"Farming in Ponds and Dams\", Nick Romanowski expresses the view that the presentation of aquaculture in Bill Mollison's books is unrealistic and misleading.\n\nGreg Williams argues that forests cannot be more productive than farmland because the net productivity of forests declines as they mature due to ecological succession. Proponents of permaculture respond that this is true only if one compares data between woodland forest and climax vegetation, but not when comparing farmland vegetation with woodland forest. For example, ecological succession generally results in a forest's productivity rising after its establishment only until it reaches the \"woodland state\" (67% tree cover), before declining until \"full maturity\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59136763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59136763", "title": "Philosophy and Conceptual Art", "text": "Philosophy and Conceptual Art\n\nPhilosophy and Conceptual Art is a 2007 book edited by Elisabeth Schellekens and Peter Goldie. The contributors deal with the philosophical questions raised by conceptual art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31868890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31868890", "title": "Profile diagram", "text": "Profile diagram\n\nA profile diagram operates at the metamodel level to show stereotypes as classes with the codice_1 stereotype, and profiles as packages with the codice_2 stereotype. The extension relation (solid line with closed, filled arrowhead) indicates what metamodel element a given stereotype is extending.\n\nThe profile diagram didn't exist in UML 1. It was introduced with UML 2 to display the usage of profiles. Before its introduction, other diagrams had been used to display this issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25144580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25144580", "title": "Raison oblige theory", "text": "Raison oblige theory\n\nRaison Oblige Theory offers an alternate explanation of exhibited behaviors widely accepted to be caused by the motive of self-verification (SVT)(William Swann, 1983). The theory addresses instances of apparent self-view confirmation strivings and details an economical description of why these behaviors occur. Focusing on the importance of the \"self-view\" and rational thought, (see self-esteem; self concept; self knowledge) Raison oblige theory (ROT) accounts for the evidence supporting SVT including the well documented seemingly mal-adaptive self verifying behaviors.\n\n\nROT was developed by Aiden P. Gregg (2006).\n\nSelf-verifying behavior includes any action which ultimately coincides with and reinforces existing self-views.\n\nAn array of empirical evidence demonstrates numerous examples of self-verification.\n\nPeople with negative self-views prefer to interact with actors who reinforce negative assessments :\n\nThere are a number of conditions which influence the likelihood of engaging in self verification;\n\nThe collective evidence of self-verifying processes and conditions has been interpreted as a motivation to self-verify.\n\nFor example; Depressed people opt to receive negative information despite positivity striving of the self-enhancement motive. This has therefore been interpreted as the result of motivation to self verify. (Giesler et al., 1996)\n\nThe theory originated from criticism of the evidence supporting SVT.\n\nGregg (2007) disputed that the evidence was weak and circumstantial, and importantly could be better and more economically explained via Raison oblige theory.\n\nBoth theories acknowledged the abundance of evidence showing that people behave in a way that confirms their self-view, even when this reinforcement is seemingly maladaptive. As with most psychological theories, observation of behavior provided the most compelling evidence for self verification theory.\n\nROT, unlike SVT, does not explain the observed behavior in terms of a motive. Instead it suggests that an active cognitive process obliges a person to behave in a way that honestly reflects their currently held self-views.\n\nRationality is often overlooked when considering the causes of exhibited behaviors. When compared to the motives of self-enhancement, self-improvement and self-assessment the effects of rationality might be assumed to be small. However, Gregg (2007) outlines that “rationality is pervasive and motives merely qualify it”.\n\n\nHowever, if rationality did not strongly influence cognition, self-assessment would rarely be accurate and grandiose delusions would be common. As a result, self-enhancement and self-improvement would also be hindered as people would have an inaccurate self-concept and thus be unaware of whether they needed to enhance or improve. Without some sort of obligation to reasonable thought it is unlikely anyone would have an accurate self-concept or strive to make something of themselves.\n\n\nWhen given the option to interact with person (A) who shares my self views or person (B) who does not, I will opt for person A.\n\n\nThis hypothetical preference for people who share my self view and avoidance of those who don't has been empirically replicated many times (e.g. Swann, 92; swann 03; Gregg 07)\n\nImportantly, this behavior in which we create a world which shares our self-views does not necessarily demonstrate a motive to do so (Gregg, 07). In fact, if rationality were removed it is likely we would not adhere to self views at all. Instead people would be able to choose a self view they liked and exhibit behaviors accordingly.\n\n\nSelf-esteem has a very strong influence on a person’s self-view. A person with high self-esteem is more likely to have a positive self-view, whereas a person with low self-esteem is more likely to have a negative self-view. Many studies that seemingly provide evidence for a self-verifying motive use self-esteem as a variable to demonstrate that people confirm a self-view that corresponds to their level of self-esteem.\n\nHowever, one can argue that this behavioral evidence is circumstantial and that the correlation does not demonstrate motivation.\n\n\npeople may not \"want\" self-verifying information to be true of them and may \"want\" others to view them positively rather than negatively.\n\nFurther research needs to be undertaken to fully investigate the relationship between self views and self-esteem. (see. Gregg, 2007)\n\nROT predicts that people with low self-esteem are bound by reason to confirm their existing self view but that they don’t necessarily like it (Gregg & De Waal-Anderws, 2007). If a motivation to self-verify were present then people with low self-esteem would not care about what their self-view was, they would instead focus on actively trying to confirm it.\n\nDepression is accompanied by very low self-esteem and has therefore been a topic of strong interest for those investigating self verifying behaviors. Depression is always accompanied by low self-esteem but having low self-esteem does not necessarily mean you are depressed.\n\nIt argued that those suffering with depression, or with generally low negative self-views, will actively seek negative feedback in order to confirm their self-view; they find it more favourable. Giesler et al. (1996) tested this prediction by classifying participants into three separate groups; high self-esteem, low self-esteem and depressed individuals. When offered a choice of positive or negative feedback, depressed individuals chose to receive negative feedback 82% of the time, suggesting a strong desire to negatively re-affirm their self view. The seeking of negative feedback in order to self-verify has thus been argued to maintain a depressive state.\n\nROT challenges this interpretation and suggests that the observed behavior and maintenance of depressive state is caused by an obligation to confirm a depressive self-concept. This particular study, and many others like it can be reinterpreted using ROT. The choice of negative feedback reflects the obligation to choose information consistent with an honestly held self view.\n\nCorrelations do not equal causation; The evidence for SVT assumptions of motivation drawn from studies on depression could be circumstantial and therefore do not provide explicit proof of a motive to self-verify.\n\nMotivation is interlinked with desire. I am hungry therefore I am motivated to eat food; I want to eat.\n\nIn SVT studies of depressed persons they are asked whether they would like to receive favorable or unfavorable feedback on their personality. In concurrence with SVT and ROT predictions they chose the unfavorable feedback due to a negative self-view. These studies demonstrate that self-enhancement striving has been overridden by a separate cognitive process.\n\nIf a person with high self-esteem confirms their self-view this may not be self-verification as this is more likely to be due to the self-enhancement motive. Therefore, SVT and ROT studies tend to focus on depressive participants who's verification of negative information can not be attributed to self-enhancement.\n\n\nOne example that is well explained by Raison Oblige Theory is why people stay in abusive relationships. According to Rusbult and Martz (1995) more than 40% of women who seek help from a shelter when being abused by their partner then return to living with their partner and remain in the abusive relationship.\n\nSelf-verification theory would explain this by the abused partner’s need to self-verify that the way they are being treated is deserved, in order to establish an accurate self-concept (Swann & Ely, 1984).\n\nHowever the alternative explanation from Raison Oblige Theory is that an abused individual will rationalise the situation they are in and come to the conclusion that they themselves are in some way causing the abuse. This leads to the honest belief that they deserve the abuse and causes feelings of worthlessness. This results in the abused individual remaining loyal to their partner and failing to seek help, as they believe the abuse is their fault and that they need to improve in some way in order that the abuse will stop. Raison Oblige Theory also explains that the abused partner feels that they will gain no benefit from leaving an abusive relationship, as they see the abuse as their fault. This also explains why the abused individual may defend their partner should anyone outside the relationship become aware of the abuse.\n\nThe mind is difficult to study, often multiple theories can explain a single phenomenon. A theory which explains said phenomenon more efficiently or can explain additional behaviors is considered the more plausible theory.\n\n\nBehavior does not always reflect motivation;\n\n\n\nSelf-assessment is bound to rational perception;\n\nSelf-enhancement is bound to rational perception;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1706965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1706965", "title": "Rationalization (psychology)", "text": "Rationalization (psychology)\n\nIn psychology and logic, rationalization or rationalisation (also known as making excuses) is a defense mechanism in which controversial behaviors or feelings are justified and explained in a seemingly rational or logical manner to avoid the true explanation, and are made consciously tolerable—or even admirable and superior—by plausible means. It is also an informal fallacy of reasoning.\n\nRationalization happens in two steps:\n\nRationalization encourages irrational or unacceptable behavior, motives, or feelings and often involves ad hoc hypothesizing. This process ranges from fully conscious (e.g. to present an external defense against ridicule from others) to mostly unconscious (e.g. to create a block against internal feelings of guilt or shame). People rationalize for various reasons—sometimes when we think we know ourselves better than we do. Rationalization may differentiate the original deterministic explanation of the behavior or feeling in question.\n\nQuintilian and classical rhetoric used the term \"color\" for the presenting of an action in the most favourable possible perspective. Laurence Sterne in the eighteenth century took up the point, arguing that, were a man to consider his actions, \"he will soon find, that such of them, as strong inclination and custom have prompted him to commit, are generally dressed out and painted with all the false beauties [color] which, a soft and flattering hand can give them\".\n\nAccording to the DSM-IV, rationalization occurs \"when the individual deals with emotional conflict or internal or external stressors by concealing the true motivations for his or her own thoughts, actions, or feelings through the elaboration of reassuring or self serving but incorrect explanations\".\n\n\nEgregious rationalizations intended to deflect blame can also take the form of ad hominem attacks or DARVO.\nSome rationalizations take the form of a comparison. Commonly this is done to lessen the perception of an action's negative effects, to justify an action, or to excuse culpability: \nBased on anecdotal and survey evidence, John Banja states that the medical field features a disproportionate amount of rationalization invoked in the \"covering up\" of mistakes. Common excuses made are:\n\n\n\nSome scientists criticize the notion that brains are wired to rationalize irrational decisions, arguing that evolution would select against spending more nutrients at mental processes that do not contribute to the improvement of decisions such as rationalization of decisions that would have been taken anyway. These scientists argue that learning from mistakes would be decreased rather than increased by rationalization, and criticize the hypothesis that rationalization evolved as a means of social manipulation by noting that if rational arguments were deceptive there would be no evolutionary chance for breeding individuals that responded to the arguments and therefore making them ineffective and not capable of being selected for by evolution.\n\nErnest Jones introduced the term \"rationalization\" to psychoanalysis in 1908, defining it as \"the inventing of a reason for an attitude or action the motive of which is not recognized\"'—an explanation which (though false) could seem plausible. The term (\"Rationalisierung\" in German) was taken up almost immediately by Sigmund Freud to account for the explanations offered by patients for their own neurotic symptoms.\n\nAs psychoanalysts continued to explore the glossed of unconscious motives, Otto Fenichel distinguished different sorts of rationalization—both the justifying of irrational instinctive actions on the grounds that they were reasonable or normatively validated, and the rationalizing of defensive structures, whose purpose is unknown on the grounds that they have some quite different but somehow logical meaning.\n\nLater psychoanalysts are divided between a positive view of rationalization as a stepping-stone on the way to maturity, and a more destructive view of it as splitting feeling from thought, and so undermining the powers of reason.\n\nLeon Festinger highlighted in 1957 the discomfort caused people by awareness of inconsistent thought. Rationalization can reduce such discomfort by explaining away the discrepancy in question, as when people who take up smoking after previously quitting decide that the evidence for it being harmful is less than they previously thought.\n\n"}
{"id": "3761593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3761593", "title": "Samvriti", "text": "Samvriti\n\nIn Buddhist context, saṁvṛiti or saṁvṛiti-satya (Sanskrit) refers to the conventional (\"saṁvṛiti\"), as opposed to absolute, truth or reality (\"satya\"). Knowledge is considered as split into three levels: The first being the \"illusory\" (called \"samvriti\", \"parikalpita\" or \"pratibhasika\" according to different schools of thought), considered false compared to the empirical (\"samvriti\", \"paratantra\" or \"vyavaharika\"), in turn trumped by the transcendental (\"paramartha\" or \"paramarthika\"). \"Compare: paramartha\"\n\nEtymology:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31424241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31424241", "title": "Self-propelled particles", "text": "Self-propelled particles\n\nSelf-propelled particles (SPP), also referred to as self-driven particles, are terms used by physicists to describe autonomous agents, which convert energy from the environment into directed or persistent motion. Natural systems which have inspired the study and design of these particles include walking, swimming or flying animals. Other biological systems include bacteria, cells, algae and other micro-organisms. Generally, self-propelled particles often refer to artificial systems such as robots or specifically designed particles such as swimming Janus colloids, nanomotors and walking grains. In the case of directed propulsion, which is driven by a chemical gradient, this is referred to as chemotaxis, observed in biological systems, e.g. bacteria quorum sensing and ant pheromone detection, and in synthetic systems, e.g. bimetallic nanorods and enzyme molecule chemotaxis. \n\nSelf-propelled particles interact with each other, which can lead to the emergence of collective behaviours. These collective behaviours mimic the self-organization observed with the flocking of birds, the swarming of bugs, the formation of sheep herds, etc.\n\nTo understand the ubiquity of such phenomena, physicists have developed a number of self-propelled particles models. These models predict that self-propelled particles share certain properties at the group level, regardless of the type of animals (or artificial particles) in the swarm. It has become a challenge in theoretical physics to find minimal statistical models that capture these behaviours.\n\nMost animals can be seen as SPP: they find energy in their food and exhibit various locomotion strategies, from flying to crawling. The most prominent examples of collective behaviours in these systems are fish schools, birds flocks, sheep herds, human crowds. At a smaller scale, cells and bacteria can also be treated as SPP. These biological systems can propel themselves based on the presence of chemoattractants. At even smaller scale, molecular motors transform ATP energy into directional motion. Recent work has shown that enzyme molecules will also propel themselves. Further, it has been shown that they will preferentially move towards a region of higher substrate concentration, a phenomenon that has been developed into a purification technique to isolate live enzymes. Additionally, microparticles can become self-propelled when they are functionalized with enzymes. The catalytic reactions of the enzymes direct the particles based on corresponding substrate gradients.\n\nThere is a distinction between wet and dry systems. In the first case the particles \"swim\" in a surrounding fluid; in the second case the particles \"walk\" on a substrate. \n\nActive colloidal particles, dubbed nanomotors, are the prototypical example of wet SPP. Janus particles are colloidal particles with two different sides, having different physical or chemical properties. This symmetry breaking allows, by properly tuning the environment (typically the surrounding solution), for the motion of the Janus particle. For instance, the two sides of the Janus particle can induce a local gradient of, temperature, electric field, or concentration of chemical species. This induces motion of the Janus particle along the gradient through, respectively, thermophoresis, electrophoresis or diffusiophoresis. Because the Janus particles consume energy from their environment (catalysis of chemical reactions, light absorption, etc.), the resulting motion constitutes an irreversible process and the particles are out of equilibrium. \n\nWalking grains are a typical realization of dry SPP: The grains are milli-metric disks sitting on a vertically vibrating plate, which serves as the source of energy and momentum. The disks have two different contacts (\"feet\") with the plate, a hard needle-like foot in the front and a large soft rubber foot in the back. When shaken, the disks move in a preferential direction defined by the polar (head-tail) symmetry of the contacts. This together with the vibrational noise result in a persistent random walk.\n\nTypical collective motion generally includes the formation of self-assembled structures, such as clusters and organized assemblies. \n\nThe prominent and most spectacular emergent large scale behaviour observed in assemblies of SPP is directed collective motion. In that case all particles move in the same direction. On top of that, spatial structures can emerge such as bands, vortices, asters, moving clusters.\n\nAnother class of large scale behaviour, which does \"not\" imply directed motion is either the spontaneous formation of clusters or the separation in a gas-like and a liquid-like phase, an unexpected phenomenon when the SPP have purely repulsive interaction. This phase separation has been called Motility Induced Phase Separation (MIPS).\n\nThe modeling of SPP was introduced in 1995 by Tamás Vicsek \"et al.\" as a special case of the Boids model introduced in 1986 by Reynolds. In that case the SPP are point particles, which move with a constant speed. and adopt (at each time increment) the average direction of motion of the other particles in their local neighborhood up to some added noise.\nSimulations demonstrate that a suitable \"nearest neighbour rule\" eventually results in all the particles swarming together, or moving in the same direction. This emerges, even though there is no centralised coordination, and even though the neighbours for each particle constantly change over time (see the interactive simulation in the box on the right).\n\nSince then a number of models have been proposed, ranging from the simples so called Active Brownian Particle to highly elaborated and specialized models aiming at describing specific systems and situations. Among the important ingredients in these models, one can list \nOne can also include effective influences of the surrounding; for instance the nominal velocity of the SPP can be set to depend on the local density, in order to take into account crowding effects.\n\nYoung desert locusts are solitary and wingless nymphs. If food is short they can gather together and start occupying neighbouring areas, recruiting more locusts. Eventually they can become a marching army extending over many kilometres. This can be the prelude to the development of the vast flying adult locust swarms which devastate vegetation on a continental scale.\n\nOne of the key predictions of the SPP model is that as the population density of a group increases, an abrupt transition occurs from individuals moving in relatively disordered and independent ways within the group to the group moving as a highly aligned whole. Thus, in the case of young desert locusts, a trigger point should occur which turns disorganised and dispersed locusts into a coordinated marching army. When the critical population density is reached, the insects should start marching together in a stable way and in the same direction.\n\nIn 2006, a group of researchers examined how this model held up in the laboratory. Locusts were placed in a circular arena, and their movements were tracked with computer software. At low densities, below 18 locusts per square metre, the locusts mill about in a disordered way. At intermediate densities, they start falling into line and marching together, punctuated by abrupt but coordinated changes in direction. However, when densities reached a critical value at about 74 locusts/m, the locusts ceased making rapid and spontaneous changes in direction, and instead marched steadily in the same direction for the full eight hours of the experiment (see video on the left). This confirmed the behaviour predicted by the SPP models.\n\nIn the field, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the average density of marching bands is 50 locusts/m (50 million locusts/km), with a typical range from 20 to 120 locusts/m. The research findings discussed above demonstrate the dynamic instability that is present at the lower locust densities typical in the field, where marching groups randomly switch direction without any external perturbation. Understanding this phenomenon, together with the switch to fully coordinated marching at higher densities, is essential if the swarming of desert locusts is to be controlled.\n\nSwarming animals, such as ants, bees, fish and birds, are often observed suddenly switching from one state to another. For example, birds abruptly switch from a flying state to a landing state. Or fish switch from schooling in one direction to schooling in another direction. Such state switches can occur with astonishing speed and synchronicity, as though all the members in the group made a unanimous decision at the same moment. Phenomena like these have long puzzled researchers.\n\nIn 2010, Bhattacharya and Vicsek used an SPP model to analyse what is happening here. As a paradigm, they considered how flying birds arrive at a collective decision to make a sudden and synchronised change to land. The birds, such as the starlings in the image on the right, have no decision-making leader, yet the flock know exactly how to land in a unified way. The need for the group to land overrides deviating intentions by individual birds. The particle model found that the collective shift to landing depends on perturbations that apply to the individual birds, such as where the birds are in the flock. It is behaviour that can be compared with the way that sand avalanches, if it is piled up, before the point at which symmetric and carefully placed grains would avalanche, because the fluctuations become increasingly non-linear.\n\n\"Our main motivation was to better understand something which is puzzling and out there in nature, especially in cases involving the stopping or starting of a collective behavioural pattern in a group of people or animals ... We propose a simple model for a system whose members have the tendency to follow the others both in space and in their state of mind concerning a decision about stopping an activity. This is a very general model, which can be applied to similar situations.\" The model could also be applied to a swarm of unmanned drones, to initiating a desired motion in a crowd of people, or to interpreting group patterns when stock market shares are bought or sold.\n\nSPP models have been applied in many other areas, such as schooling fish, robotic swarms, molecular motors, the development of human stampedes and the evolution of human trails in urban green spaces. SPP in Stokes flow, such as Janus particles, are often modeled by the squirmer model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2584592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2584592", "title": "Single responsibility principle", "text": "Single responsibility principle\n\nThe single responsibility principle is a computer programming principle that states that every module or class should have responsibility over a single part of the functionality provided by the software, and that responsibility should be entirely encapsulated by the class. All its services should be narrowly aligned with that responsibility. Robert C. Martin expresses the principle as, \"A class should have only one reason to change,\" although, because of confusion around the word \"reason\" he more recently stated \"This principle is about people.\"\n\nThe term was introduced by Robert C. Martin in an article by the same name as part of his \"Principles of Object Oriented Design\", made popular by his book \"Agile Software Development, Principles, Patterns, and Practices\". Martin described it as being based on the principle of cohesion, as described by Tom DeMarco in his book \"Structured Analysis and System Specification\", and Meilir Page-Jones in \"The Practical Guide to Structured Systems Design\". In 2014 Robert C. Martin wrote a blog post entitled The Single Responsibility Principle with a goal to clarify what was meant by the phrase \"reason for change.\"\n\nMartin defines a responsibility as a \"reason to change\", and concludes that a class or module should have one, and only one, reason to be changed (i.e. rewritten). As an example, consider a module that compiles and prints a report. Imagine such a module can be changed for two reasons. First, the content of the report could change. Second, the format of the report could change. These two things change for very different causes; one substantive, and one cosmetic. The single responsibility principle says that these two aspects of the problem are really two separate responsibilities, and should therefore be in separate classes or modules. It would be a bad design to couple two things that change for different reasons at different times.\n\nThe reason it is important to keep a class focused on a single concern is that it makes the class more robust. Continuing with the foregoing example, if there is a change to the report compilation process, there is greater danger that the printing code will break if it is part of the same class.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "850579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850579", "title": "Social exchange theory", "text": "Social exchange theory\n\nSocial exchange theory is a social psychological and sociological perspective that explains social change and stability as a process of negotiated exchanges between parties. Social exchange theory posits that human relationships are formed by the use of a subjective cost-benefit analysis and the comparison of alternatives. The theory has roots in economics, psychology and sociology. Social exchange theory features many of the main assumptions found in rational choice theory and structuralism.\nIt is also used quite frequently in the business world to imply a two-sided, mutually contingent and rewarding process involving transactions or simply exchange.\n\nSocial exchange theory goes back to Thibaut and Kelley (1959), Kelley and Thibaut (1978), Homans (1961) and Rusbult (1983). Sociologist George Homans published a work \"Social Behavior as Exchange\". He defined social exchange as the exchange of activity, tangible or intangible, and more or less rewarding or costly, between at least two persons. After Homans founded the theory, other theorists continued to write about it, particularly Peter M. Blau and Richard M. Emerson, who in addition to Homans are generally thought of as the major developers of the exchange perspective within sociology. Homans' work emphasized the individual behavior of actors in interaction with one another. Although there are various modes of exchange, Homans centered his studies on dyadic exchange. John Thibaut and Harold Kelley are recognized for focusing their studies within the theory on the psychological concepts, the dyad and small group. Lévi-Strauss is recognized for contributing to the emergence of this theoretical perspective from his work on anthropology focused on systems of generalized exchange, such as kinship systems and gift exchange.\n\nHomans summarizes the system in three propositions: success, stimulus, and deprivation–satiation proposition.\n\nPeter Blau focused his early writings on social exchange theory more towards the economic and utilitarian perspective, whereas Homans focused on reinforcement principles which presuppose individuals base their next social move on past experiences. Blau's utilitarian focus encouraged the theorist to look forward, as in what they anticipated the reward would be in regards to their next social interaction. Blau felt that if individuals focused too much on the psychological concepts within the theory, they would refrain from learning the developing aspects of social exchange. Blau emphasized technical economic analysis whereas Homans concentrated more on the psychology of instrumental behavior.\n\nRichard Emerson's early work on the theory intertwined with both Homans and Blau's ideas. Homans believed that social exchange theory was based on reinforcement principles. According to Emerson, Exchange is not a theory, but a framework from which other theories can converge and be compared to structural functionalism. Emerson's perspective was similar to Blau's since they both focused on the relationship power had with the exchange process. Emerson says that social exchange theory is an approach in sociology that is described for simplicity as an economic analysis of noneconomic social situations. Exchange theory brings a quasi-economic form of analysis into those situations.\n\nSelf-interest and interdependence are central properties of social exchange. These are the basic forms of interaction when two or more actors have something of value to each other, and they have to decide whether to exchange and in what amounts. Homans uses the concepts of individualism to explain exchange processes. To him, the meaning of individual self-interest is a combination of economic and psychological needs. Fulfilling self-interest is often common within the economic realm of the social exchange theory where competition and greed can be common. In social exchange, self-interest is not a negative thing; rather, when self-interest is recognized, it will act as the guiding force of interpersonal relationships for the advancement of both parties' self-interest\"—Michael Roloff (1981)\nThibaut and Kelley see the mutual interdependence of persons as the central problem for the study of social behavior. They developed a theoretical framework based on the interdependence of actors. They also highlighted social implications of different forms of interdependence such as reciprocal control. According to their interdependence definition, outcomes are based on a combination of parties' efforts and mutual and complementary arrangements.\n\nSocial exchange theory views exchange as a social behavior that may result both in economic and social outcomes. Social exchange theory has been generally analyzed by comparing human interactions with the marketplace. The study of the theory from the microeconomics perspective is attributed to Blau. Under his perspective every individual is trying to maximize his wins. Blau stated that once this concept is understood, it is possible to observe social exchanges everywhere, not only in market relations, but also in other social relations like friendship. Social exchange process brings satisfaction when people receive fair returns for their expenditures. The major difference between social and economic exchange is the nature of the exchange between parties. Neoclassic economic theory views the actor as dealing not with another actor but with a market and environmental parameters, such as market price. Unlike economic exchange, the elements of social exchange are quite varied and cannot be reduced to a single quantitative exchange rate. According to Stafford, social exchanges involve a connection with another person; involve trust and not legal obligations; are more flexible; and rarely involve explicit bargaining.\n\nSimple social exchange models assume that rewards and costs drive relationship decisions. Both parties in a social exchange take responsibility for one another and depend on each other. The elements of relational life include:\n\nCosts are the elements of relational life that have negative value to a person, such as the effort put into a relationship and the negatives of a partner. (Costs can be time, money, effort etc.)\n\nRewards are the elements of a relationship that have positive value. (Rewards can be sense of acceptance, support, and companionship etc.)\n\nAs with everything dealing with the social exchange theory, it has as its outcome satisfaction and dependence of relationships. The social-exchange perspective argues that people calculate the overall worth of a particular relationship by subtracting its costs from the rewards it provides.\n\nIf worth is a positive number, it is a positive relationship. On the contrary, a negative number indicates a negative relationship. The worth of a relationship influences its outcome, or whether people will continue with a relationship or terminate it. Positive relationships are expected to endure, whereas negative relationships will probably terminate. In a mutually beneficial exchange, each party supplies the wants of the other party at lower cost to self than the value of the resources the other party provides. In such a model, mutual relationship satisfaction ensures relationship stability.\nHomans based his theory on behaviorism to conclude that people pursue rewards to minimize costs. The \"satisfactory-ness\" of the rewards that a party gains from an exchange relationship is judged relative to some standard, which may vary from party to party.\n\nThe basis of social exchange theory is to explain social change and stability as a process of negotiate exchanges between parties. These changes can occur over a person's life course through the various relationships, opportunities and means of support. An example of this is the convoy model of support, this model uses concentric circles to describe relationships around an individual with the strongest relationships in the closet circle. As a person ages these relationships form a convoy that moves along with the person and exchanges in support and assistance through different circumstances that occur. It also changes through the directionality of support given to and by the individual with the people within their support network. Within this model there are different types of support (Social support) a person can receive, those being intangible, tangible, instrumental, and informational. Intangible support can either be social or emotional and can be love, friendship and appreciation that comes with valuable relationships. Tangible support are physical gifts given to someone such as land, gifts, money, transportation, food, and completing chores. Instrumental support are services given to someone in a relationship. Finally, informational support is the delivering of information that is helpful to an individual. \n\nIvan Nye came up with twelve theoretical propositions that aid in understanding the exchange theory.\n\n\nIn his article published in 1978, Nye originally proposed seven propositions that were common in all types of relationship, A few years later he would expand the propositions to a total of twelve. The first five propositions listed are classified as general propositions and are substance free-meaning, the propositions themselves can stand alone within the theory. Proposition number six has been identified by scholars as a notion that there is a general assumption of a need for social approval as a reward and can therefor act as a drive force behind actions. Proposition seven will only work if the individual has the freedom to be excluded from outside factors while in a social exchange relationship. The twelfth and final proposition is directed towards the way our society has a heightened value placed on monetary funds. \n\nEven though Homans took an individualistic approach, a major goal of his work was to explicate the micro-foundations of social structures and social exchange. By studying such forms of behavior he hoped to illuminate the informal sub-institutional bases of more complex social behavior, typically more formal and often institutionalized. According to Homans, social structures emerge from elementary forms of behavior. His vision of the underpinnings of social structure and institutional forms is linked to the actions of individuals, for example to their responses to rewarding and punishment circumstances.\n\nHomans developed five key propositions that assist in structuring individuals' behaviors based on rewards and costs. This set of theoretical ideas represents the core of Homans's version of social exchange theory.\n\nSocial exchange theory is not one theory but a frame of reference within which many theories can speak to another, whether in argument or mutual support. All these theories are built upon several assumptions about human nature and the nature of relationships. Thibaut and Kelley have based their theory on two conceptualizations: one that focuses on the nature of individuals and one that describes the relationships between two people. Thus, the assumptions they make also fall into these categories.\nThe assumptions that social exchange theory makes about human nature include the following:\n\n\nThe assumptions social exchange theory makes about the nature of relationships include the following:\n\n\nThe prisoner's dilemma is a widely used example in game theory that attempts to illustrate why or how two individuals may not cooperate with each other, even if it is in their best interest to do so. It demonstrates that while cooperation would give the best outcome, people might nevertheless act selfishly.\nAll relationships involve exchanges although the balance of this exchange is not always equal. We cannot achieve our goals alone so as humans sometimes we have to become actors. In the world today we see actors as unemotional people but that is not the case once we reach our goals in the end.\n\nSocial exchange includes \"both a notion of a relationship, and some notion of a shared obligation in which both parties perceive responsibilities to each other\". John Thibaut and Harold Kelley proposed two comparison standards to differentiate between relationship satisfaction and relationship stability. This evaluation rests on two types of comparisons: Comparison Level and Comparison Level for Alternative. According to Thibaut and Kelley, the Comparison Level (CL) is a standard representing what people feel they should receive in the way of rewards and costs from a particular relationship. An individual's comparison level can be considered the standard by which an outcome seems to satisfy the individual. The Comparison Level for Alternative (CLalt) refers to \"the lowest level of relational rewards a person is willing to accept given available rewards from alternative relationships or being alone\". In other words, when using this evaluation tool, an individual will consider other alternative payoffs or rewards outside of the current relationship or exchange. CLalt provides a measure of stability rather than satisfaction. If people see no alternative and fear being alone more than being in the relationship, social exchange theory predicts they will stay.\n\nAccording to Kelley and Thibaut, people engage in Behavioral Sequence, or a series of actions designed to achieve their goal. This is congruent with their assumption that human beings are rational. When people engage in these behavioral sequences, they are dependent to some extent on their relational partner. In order for behavioral sequences to lead to social exchange, two conditions must be achieved: \"It must be oriented towards ends that can only be achieved through interaction with other persons, and it must seek to adapt means to further the achievement of these ends\". The concept of reciprocity also derives from this pattern. The reciprocity principle refers to the mutual reinforcement by two parties of each other's actions. The process begins when at least one participant makes a \"move\", and if the other reciprocates, new rounds of exchange initiate. Once the process is in motion, each consequence can create a self-reinforcing cycle. Even though the norm of reciprocity may be a universally accepted principle, the degree to which people and cultures apply this concept varies.\n\nSeveral definitions of power have been offered by exchange theorists. For instance, some theorists view power as distinct from exchanges, some view it as a kind of exchange and others believe power is a medium of exchange. However, the most useful definition of power is that proposed by Emerson, who developed a theory of power-dependence relations. According to this theory, the dependence a person has on another brings up the concept of power. Power differentiation affects social structures by causing inequalities between members of different groups, such as an individual having superiority over another. Power within the theory is governed by two variables : the structure of power in exchange networks and strategic use. Experimental data show that the position an actor occupies in a social exchange network determines relative dependence and therefore power.\n\nAccording to Thibaut and Kelley, there are two types of power: fate control and behavior control. Fate control is the ability to affect a partner's outcomes. Behavior control is the power to cause another's behavior to change by changing one's own behavior.\n\nPeople develop patterns of exchange to cope with power differentials and to deal with the costs associated with exercising power. These patterns describe behavioral rules or norms that indicate how people trade resources in an attempt to maximize rewards and minimize costs. Three different matrices have been described by Thibaut and Kelley to illustrate the patterns people develop. These are given matrix, the effective matrix and the dispositional matrix.\n\n\nThere are three forms within these matrices: Reciprocity, Generalized Exchange, and Productive Exchange. In a direct exchange, reciprocation is confined to the two actors. One social actor provides value to another one and the other reciprocates. There are three different types of reciprocity:\n\nA generalized exchange involves indirect reciprocity between three or more individuals. For example, one person gives to another and the recipient responds by giving to another person other than the first person. Productive exchange means that both actors have to contribute for either one of them to benefit. Both people incur benefits and costs simultaneously.\n\nAnother common form of exchange is negotiated exchange which focuses on the negotiation of rules in order for both parties to reach a beneficial agreement. Reciprocal exchanges and negotiated exchanges are often analyzed and compared to discover their essential differences. One major difference between the two exchanges is the level of risks associated with the exchange and the uncertainty these risks create (ref). Negotiated exchange can consist of binding and non-binding negotiations. When comparing the levels of risk within these exchanges, reciprocal exchange has the highest level of risk which in result produces the most uncertainty. An example of a risk that could occur during the reciprocal exchange is the factor that the second party could end up not returning the favor and completing the reciprocal exchange. Binding negotiated exchanges involve the least amount of risks which will result the individuals feeling low levels of uncertainty. Whereas non-binding negotiated exchanges and their level of risks and uncertainty fall in between the amount of risks associated with reciprocal and binding negotiated exchanges. Since there is not a binding agreement involved, one party involved in the exchange could decide to not cooperate with the agreement.\n\nKatherine Miller outlines several major objections to or problems with the social exchange theory as developed from early seminal works\n\nRussell Cropanzano and Marie S. Mitchell discuss how one of the major issues within the social exchange theory is the lack of information within studies on the various exchange rules. Reciprocity is a major exchange rule discussed but, Cropanzano and Mitchell write that the theory would be better understood if more research programs discussed a variety of exchange rules such as altruism, group gain, status consistency and competition. Meeker points out that within the exchange process, each unit takes into account at least the following elements: reciprocity, rationality, altruism (social responsibility), group gain, status, consistency, and competition (rivalry).\n\nRosenfeld (2005) has noted significant limitations to Social Exchange Theory and its application in the selection of mates/partners. Specifically, Rosenfeld looked at the limitations of interracial couples and the application of social exchange theory. His analysis suggest that in modern society, there is less of a gap between interracial partners education level, socioeconomic status, and social class level which in turn, makes the previously understood application of social exchange mute.\n\nThe most extensive application of social exchange has been in the area of interpersonal relationships. However, social exchange theory materializes in many different situations with the same idea of the exchange of resources. Self-Interest can encourage individuals to make decisions that will benefit themselves overall. Homans once summarized the theory by stating:\n\nOther applications that developed the idea of exchange include field of anthropology as evidenced in an article by Harumi Befu, which discusses cultural ideas and norms. Lévi-Strauss is considered as one of the major contributors to the anthropology of exchange. Within this field, self-interest, human sentiment and motivational process are not considered. Lévi–Strauss uses a collectivist approach to explain exchanges. To Lévi-Strauss, a social exchange is defined as a regulated form of behavior in the context of societal rules and norms. This contrasts with psychological studies of exchange in which behaviors are studied ignoring the culture. Social exchanges from the anthropological perspective have been analyzed using the gift-giving phenomena. The concept of reciprocity under this perspective states that individuals can directly reward his benefactor or another person in the social exchange process. Lévi-Strauss developed the theory of cousin marriage based on the pervasiveness of gift-giving in primitive societies. The basis of this theory is the distinction between restricted exchanges, which is only capable of connecting pairs of social groups, and generalize exchange, which integrates indefinite numbers of groups.\n\nThroughout the theory, one can also end up losing relationships that were already established because the feeling of no longer being beneficial. One feels as if there is not longer a need for a relationship or communication due to lack of rewards. Once this happens, the process of looking for new partners and resources occurs. This allows a continuation of networking. One may go through this process quite frequently. A study titled, Factors Related to Initiating Interpersonal Contacts on Internet Dating Sites: A View From the social exchange theory applied this theory to new media (online dating). The study discovers the different factors involved when an individual decides to establish an online relationship. Overall the study followed the social exchange theory's idea, \"people are attracted to those who grant them rewards\".\n\nAnother example is Berg's study about development of friendship between roommates. The research found how social exchange processes changed during the year by measuring self disclosure. According to the study, the amount one person rewards another and the comparison levels for alternatives become the most important factors in determining liking and satisfaction. Auld, C. and Alan C. conducted a study to discover what processes occur and what is experienced during social leisure relationships. They use the concept of reciprocity to understand their findings. The study concluded that meeting new people is often given as a major reason for participation in leisure activities, and meeting new people may be conceptualized as an exercise of reciprocity. In this case, reciprocity is perceived as a starting mechanism for new social relationships because people are willing to be helped by others, expecting that the help will eventually be returned. A study conducted by Paul, G., called Exchange and access in field work tries to understand the relationships between the researchers and subjects. This study concludes that Bargaining helps to satisfy the more specific needs of the parties because greater risks are taken to obtain more information. This study also introduces the concept of trust (social sciences) to determine the duration of relationships.\n\nPatterns of interracial marriage have been explained using social exchange theory. Kalmijn suggests that ethnic status is offset against educational or financial resources. This process has been used to explain why there are more marriages between black men and white women than between white men and black women. This asymmetry in marriage patterns has been used to support the idea of a racial hierarchy. Lewis, however, explains that the same patterns of marriage can be accounted for in terms of simple facial attractiveness patterns of the different gender by race groupings. Recent changes have seen an increase in black females marrying white men and a decrease in raw prevalence of interracial marriages when it comes to black females. There has also been a shift in the concentration of interracial marriage from mostly being between those with low education levels to those with higher levels of education. \n\nSocial exchange theory has served as a theoretical foundation to explain different situations in business practices. It has contributed to the study of organization-stakeholder relationships and relationship marketing. The investment model proposed by Caryl Rusbult is a useful version of social exchange theory. According to this model, investments serve to stabilize relationships. The greater the nontransferable investments a person has in a given relationship, the more stable the relationship is likely to be. The same investment concept is applied in relationship marketing. Databases are the major instrument to build differentiated relationships between organizations and customers. Through the information process, companies identify the customer's own individual needs. From this perspective, a client becomes an investment. If a customer decides to choose another competitor, the investment will be lost. When people find they have invested too much to quit a relationship or enterprise, they pour additional resources into the relationship to salvage their initial investment. Exchange has been a central research thrust in business-to-business relational exchange. According to the study conducted by Lambe, C. Jay, C. Michael Wittmann, and Robert E. Spekman firms evaluate economic and social outcomes from each transaction and compare them to what they feel they deserve. Firms also look for additional benefits provided by other potential exchange partners. The initial transaction between companies is crucial to determine if their relationship will expand, remain the same or will dissolve.\n\nA study conducted by A. Saks serves as an example to explain engagement of employees in organizations. This study uses one of the tenets of social exchange theory to explain that obligations are generated through a series of interactions between parties who are in a state of reciprocal interdependence. The research identified that when individuals receive economic and socioemotional resources from their organization, they feel obliged to respond in kind and repay the organization. This is a description of engagement as a two-way relationship between the employer and employee. One way for individuals to repay their organization is through their level of engagement. The more engaged the employee are to their work, the greater amounts of cognitive, emotional, and physical resources they will devote to perform their job duties. When the organization fails to provide economic or emotional resources, the employees are more likely to withdraw and disengage themselves from their roles.\n\nSocial exchange theory is a theoretical explanation for organizational citizenship behavior.This study examines a model of clear leadership and relational building between head and teachers as antecedents, and organizational citizenship behavior as a consequence of teacher–school exchange. Citizenship behavior can also be shown with employees and their employers.This is shown through organizational identification which plays an important role in organizational citizenship behavior. An employees identification with their employer plays a significant role in supporting and promoting organized citizenship behavior, serving as a mediating mechanism with citizenship behaviors, perceived organizational justice, and organizational support based on both the social exchange and social identity theory. \n\nUnderstanding interpersonal disclosure in online social networking is an ideal application of social networking theory. Researchers have leveraged SET to explain self-disclosure in a cross-cultural context of French and British working professionals. They discover that reciprocation is the primary benefit of self-disclosure, whereas risk is the foundational cost of self-disclosure. They find that positive social influence to use an online community increases online community self-disclosure; reciprocity increases self-disclosure; online community trust increases self-disclosure; and privacy risk beliefs decrease self-disclosure. Meanwhile, a tendency toward collectivism increases self-disclosure. Similar research also leveraged SET to examine privacy concerns versus desire for interpersonal awareness in driving the use of self-disclosure technologies in the context of instant messaging. This study was also a cross-cultural study, but instead compared US and Chinese participants.\n\nThe actors in social exchange are normally viewed as unemotional beings who have information, cognitively process it, and make decisions concerning the pattern and nature of exchange with others. Affect theory of social exchange complements social exchange theory by incorporating emotion as part of the exchange process. Formalized by Lawler (2001), the affect theory examines the structural conditions of exchange that produce emotions and feelings and then identifies how individuals attribute these emotions to different social units (exchange partners, groups, or networks). These attributions of emotion, in turn, dictate how strongly individuals feel attached to their partners or groups, which drives collectively oriented behavior and commitment to the relationship.\n\nMost social exchange models have three basic assumptions in common: behavior in a social sense is based on exchanges, if an individual allows someone to receives a reward the person then feels the need to reciprocate due to social pressure and individuals will try to minimize their cost while gaining the most from the reward. The affect theory of social exchange is based on assumptions that stem from social exchange theory and affect theory:\n\n\nAffect theory of social exchange shows how the conditions of exchanges promote interpersonal and group relationships through emotions and affective processes. The theoretical arguments center on the following five claims:\n\nEmotions produced by exchange are involuntary, internal responses\n\nIndividuals experience emotions (general feelings of pleasantness or unpleasantness) depending on whether their exchange is successful. These emotions are construed as a reward (or punishment) and individuals strive to repeat actions that reproduce positive emotions or avoid negative emotions.\n\nIndividuals attempt to understand what in a social exchange situation produces emotions\n\nIndividuals will use the exchange task to understand the source (partners, groups, or networks) of their emotions. Individuals are more likely to attribute their emotions to their exchange partners or groups when the task can only be completed with one or more partners, when the task requires interdependent (nonseparable) contributions, and when there is a shared sense of responsibility for the success or failure of the exchange.\n\nThe mode of exchange determines the features of the exchange task and influences the attribution of the emotion produced\n\nThe mode of exchange (productive, negotiated, reciprocal, or generalized) provides a description of the exchange task. The task features are defined by the degree of interdependence (separability of tasks) and shared responsibility between partners to complete the task. These features influence the strength of the emotion felt. Productive exchanges are interdependent and this high degree of nonseparability generates the strongest emotions. Reciprocal exchanges are separable which reduces the perceptions of shared responsibility. The exchange produces little emotional response, but individuals instead express emotions in response to the asymmetrical transaction. Generalized exchanges do not occur directly, but interdependence is still high and coordination between partners is difficult. Because there is no direct emotional foundation, emotions produced are low. Negotiated exchanges may produce conflicting emotions due to the mixed-motive nature of negotiations; even when transactions are successful, individuals may feel like they had the ability to do better, creating emotional ambivalence. Overall, productive exchanges produce the strongest attributions of emotions, generalized (indirect) exchange the weakest, with negotiated and reciprocal exchanges in between.\n\nThe attribution of emotions resulting from different exchange modes impact the solidarity felt with partners or groups\n\nThe different types of exchange (productive, reciprocal, and generalized) also impact the solidarity or identification that an individual will feel with their exchange partners or group. The different exchange types help dictate the target of felt emotions and influences an individual’s attachment. Affective attachment occurs when a social unit (partner or group) is the target of positive feelings from exchange; affective detachment (alienation) occurs when a social unit is the target of negative feelings from failure to exchange. Affective attachment increases solidarity. Similar to the attribution of emotion, productive exchange produces the strongest affective attachments, generalized exchange the weakest, and negotiated and reciprocal exchange are in between.\n\nOne condition for how social (partner or group) attributions can increase solidarity is by reducing self-serving attributions of credit or blame for the success or failure of the exchange. When individuals have group attributions for positive emotions stemming from success, this eliminates any self-serving biases and enhances both pride in the self and gratitude to the partner. However, group attributions for negative emotions stemming from failure do not eliminate self-serving biases, resulting in more anger toward the partner or group than shame in the self.\n\nLawler also proposes that the persistence (stability) and ability to control acts by the exchange partner (controllability) provide conditions for affective attachment by attributing credit or blame for the success or failure of the exchange. Following Weiner (1985) affect theory of social exchange extrapolates that the combinations of stability and uncontrollability elicit different emotions. In social exchange, social connections can be sources of stability and controllability. For example, if an exchange partner is perceived as a stable source of positive feelings, and the exchange partner has control in the acts that elicit those positive feelings, this will strengthen affective attachment. Therefore, affect theory of social exchange proposes that stable and controllable sources of positive feelings (i.e. pleasantness, pride, gratitude) will elicit affective attachments while stable and uncontrollable sources of negative feelings (i.e. unpleasantness, shame, anger) will elicit affective detachment.\n\nThrough these emotional processes, networks can develop group properties\n\nRepeated exchanges allow a network to evolve into a group. Affect theory highlights the contributions of emotions in producing group properties. Successful interactions generate positive feelings for the involved individuals, which motivates them to interact with the same partners in the future. As exchanges repeat, the strong relationships become visible to other parties, making salient their role as a group and helping to generate a group identity that continues to bind the partners together in a network. Affect theory predicts that networks of negotiated and reciprocal exchange will tend to promote stronger relational ties within partners; productive or generalized exchange will promote stronger network or group-level ties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20948512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20948512", "title": "Spatial reconnaissance", "text": "Spatial reconnaissance\n\nSpatial reconnaissance, or \"space reconnaissance\", is the reconnaissance of any celestial bodies in space by use of spacecraft and satellite photography. NASA personnel utilizes space reconnaissance to scout other planets, military uses space reconnaissance by using spy satellites onto the Earth's surface. Space reconnaissance assets provide access to all parts of the globe and use a variety of sensors to collect information responsive to virtually every intelligence need. They also constitute an integral part of the U.S. military force structure, providing critical information with sufficient accuracy and timeliness to support the maneuver of military forces and the targeting of their weapons.\n\nSpace reconnaissance is also very expensive. Although procured in limited numbers, the large satellite systems developed by the United States and the ground stations needed to operate them require expenditures in the range of several billions of dollars per year. Their substantial cost puts great pressure on the Intelligence Community to search for alternatives, find efficiencies, and continuously scrutinize the intelligence requirements these systems address.\n\n"}
{"id": "90910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90910", "title": "Stockholm syndrome", "text": "Stockholm syndrome\n\nStockholm syndrome is a condition that causes hostages to develop a psychological alliance with their captors as a survival strategy during captivity. These alliances, resulting from a bond formed between captor and captives during intimate time spent together, are generally considered irrational in light of the danger or risk endured by the victims. The FBI's Hostage Barricade Database System and Law Enforcement Bulletin shows that roughly 8% of victims show evidence of Stockholm syndrome.\n\nThis term was first used by foreign media in 1973 as eponym when four hostages were taken during a bank robbery in Stockholm, Sweden. The hostages defended their captors after being released and would not agree to testify in court against them. Stockholm syndrome is ostensibly paradoxical because the sympathetic sentiments captives feel towards their captors are the opposite of the fear and disdain an onlooker may feel towards the captors.\n\nThere are four key components that generally lead to the development of Stockholm syndrome: \n\nStockholm syndrome is considered a \"contested illness\", due to many law enforcement officers' doubt about the legitimacy of the condition. Stockholm syndrome has also come to describe the reactions of some abuse victims beyond the context of kidnappings or hostage-taking. Actions and attitudes similar to those suffering from Stockholm syndrome have also been found in victims of sexual abuse, human trafficking, discrimination, terror, and political and religious oppression.\n\nIn 1973, Jan-Erik Olsson, a convict on parole, took four employees of the bank (three women and one man) hostage during a failed bank robbery in Kreditbanken, one of the largest banks in Stockholm, Sweden. He negotiated the release from prison of his friend Clark Olofsson to assist him. They held the hostages captive for six days (23–28 August) in one of the bank’s vaults. When they were released, none of them would testify against either captor in court; instead they began raising money for their defense. \n\nNils Bejerot, a Swedish criminologist and psychiatrist coined the term after Stockholm police asked him for assistance with analyzing the victims' reactions to the 1973 bank robbery and their status as hostages. As the idea of brainwashing was not a new concept, Bejerot, speaking on \"a news cast after the captives' release\" instinctively reduced the hostages' reactions to a result of being brainwashed by their captors. He called it \"Norrmalmstorgssyndromet\", meaning \"The Norrmalmstorg Syndrome\"; it later became known outside of Sweden as the Stockholm syndrome. It was originally defined by psychiatrist Frank Ochberg to aid the management of hostage situations.\n\nOlsson later said in an interview:It was the hostages' fault. They did everything I told them to. If they hadn't, I might not be here now. Why didn't any of them attack me? They made it hard to kill. They made us go on living together day after day, like goats, in that filth. There was nothing to do but get to know each other.\n\nMary McElroy was abducted from her home at age 25 by four men who held a gun to her, demanded her compliance, took her to an abandoned farmhouse, and chained her to a wall. She defended her kidnappers when she was released, explaining that they were only businessmen. She then continued to visit her captors while they were in jail. She eventually committed suicide and left the following note: “My four kidnappers are probably the only people on Earth who don't consider me an utter fool. You have your death penalty now – so, please, give them a chance.\"\n\nNatascha Kampusch was kidnapped at age ten and kept in an insulated, dark room under the garage of Wolfgang Priklopil. She would receive a variation of kind, physically and sexually abusive, controlling, and permissive treatment from her captor. Eight years after her kidnapping, Natascha left and Priklopil committed suicide. After her kidnapper's death, Natascha lamented and kept a picture of him in her wallet.\n\nKampusch now owns the house in which she was imprisoned, saying, \"I know it's grotesque – I must now pay for electricity, water and taxes on a house I never wanted to live in\". It was reported that she claimed the house from Přiklopil's estate because she wanted to protect it from vandals and being torn down; she also noted that she has visited it since her escape. When the third anniversary of her escape approached, it was revealed she had become a regular visitor at the property and was cleaning it out possibly to move in herself.\n\nIn January 2010, Kampusch said she had retained the house because it was such a big part of her formative years, also stating that she would fill in the cellar if it is ever sold, adamant that it will never become a macabre museum to her lost adolescence. The cellar was indeed filled in, though Kampusch still owns the house.\n\nPatty Hearst, the granddaughter of publisher William Randolph Hearst, was taken and held hostage by the Symbionese Liberation Army, \"an urban guerilla group\", in 1974. She was recorded denouncing her family as well as the police under her new name, \"Tania\", and was later seen working with the SLA to rob banks in San Francisco. She publicly asserted her sympathetic feelings towards the SLA and their pursuits as well. After her 1975 arrest, pleading Stockholm syndrome did not work as a proper defense in court, much to the chagrin of her defense lawyer, F. Lee Bailey. Her seven-year prison sentence was later commuted, and she was eventually presidentially pardoned by Bill Clinton, who was informed that she was not acting under her own free will.\n\nIn 1977, Colleen Stan was hitchhiking to visit a friend in southern California when she was kidnapped by Cameron Hooker and his wife Janice and forced to live in a wooden restraining box underneath their bed. For seven years she was repeatedly raped and tortured by Cameron and forced to live life as a sort of domestic/sex slave. Even though she was allowed to socialize with Janice and even visit her mother, she still continued to live in the box and did not attempt to escape. She was eventually freed by Janice, who asked Stan to not disclose her abuse as Janice was attempting to reform Cameron. Stan remained silent until Janice finally decided to turn Cameron over to the police.\n\nThere is evidence that some victims of \"childhood sexual abuse\" come to feel a connection with their abuser. They often feel flattered by the adult attention or are afraid that disclosure will create family disruption. In adulthood, they resist disclosure for emotional and personal reasons.\n\nA similar form of Stockholm syndrome called \"Lima syndrome\" has been proposed, in which abductors develop sympathy for their hostages. An abductor may also have second thoughts or experience empathy towards their victims.\n\nLima syndrome was named after an abduction at the Japanese embassy in Lima, Peru, in 1996, when members of a militant movement took hostage hundreds of people attending a party at the official residence of Japan's ambassador. Within a few hours, the abductors had set free most of the hostages, including the most valuable ones, because of sympathy towards them.\n\nVictims of the formal definition of Stockholm syndrome develop \"positive feelings toward their captors and sympathy for their causes and goals, and negative feelings toward the police or authorities\". These symptoms often follow escaped victims back into their previously ordinary lives.\n\n\nFrom a psychoanalytic lens, it can be argued that Stockholm syndrome arises strictly as a result of survival instincts. Strentz states, \"the victim’s need to survive is stronger than his impulse to hate the person who has created the dilemma.\" A positive emotional bond between captor and captive is a \"defense mechanism of the ego under stress\". These sentimental feelings are not strictly for show, however. Since captives often fear that their affection will be perceived as fake, they eventually begin to believe that their positive sentiments are genuine. The conception of Stockholm syndrome has grown to include victims of kidnappings or hostage instances, domestic or child abuse, human trafficking, incest, prisoners of war, political terrorism, cult members, concentration camp prisoners, slaves, and prostitutes. It is believed that women are especially prone to developing the condition.\n\nTypically, Stockholm syndrome develops in captives when they engage in \"face-to-face contact\" with their captors, and when captors make captives doubt the likelihood of their survival by terrorizing them into \"helpless, powerless, and submissive\" states. This enables captors to appear merciful when they perform acts of kindness or fail to \"beat, abuse, or rape\" the victims. Ideas like \"dominance hierarchies and submission strategies\" assist in devising explanations for the illogical reasoning behind the symptoms of those suffering from Stockholm syndrome as a result of any oppressive relationship. Partial activation of the capture-bonding psychological trait may lie behind battered woman syndrome, military basic training, fraternity hazing, and sex practices such as sadism/masochism or bondage/discipline.\n\nEvolutionarily speaking, research evidence exists to support the genuine scientific nature of Stockholm syndrome. Responses similar to those in human captives have been detected in some reptiles and mammals, primates in particular. Abuse and subsequent submission and appeasement by the victim have been observed among chimpanzees, leading to the theory that the Stockholm syndrome may have its roots in evolutionary needs.\n\nLife in the \"environment of evolutionary adaptiveness\" (EEA) is thought by researchers such as Israeli military historian Azar Gat to be similar to that of the few remaining hunter-gatherer societies, who asserts that war and abductions were typical of human pre-history. Being captured by neighbouring tribes was a relatively common event for women. In some of those tribes (Yanomamo, for instance), practically everyone in the tribe is descended from a captive within the last three generations. As high as one in ten of females were abducted and incorporated into the tribe that captured them.Being captured and having their children killed may have been common; women who resisted capture risked being killed. When selection is intense and persistent, adaptive traits (such as capture-bonding) become universal to the population or species.\n\nFirst published in 1994, author Dee Graham uses the Stockholm syndrome label to describe group or collective responses to trauma, rather than individual reactions. Graham focuses specifically on the impact of Stockholm syndrome on battered and abused women as a community.She claimed that in both the psychological and societal senses, these women are defined by their sense of fear surrounding the threat of male violence. This constant fear is what drives these women to perform actions that they know will be pleasing to men in order to avoid emotional, physical, or sexual assault as a result of male anger. Graham draws parallels between women and kidnapping victims in the sense that these women bond to men to survive, as captives bond to their captors to survive.\n\nRecovering from Stockholm syndrome ordinarily involves \"psychiatric or psychological counseling,\" where the patient is helped to realize that their actions and feelings stemmed from inherent human survival techniques. The process of recovery includes reinstating normalcy into the lives of victims, including helping the victim learn how to decrease their survival-driven behaviors.\n\nThis book is widely used as the \"classification system for psychological disorders\" by the American Psychiatric Association. Stockholm syndrome has not historically appeared in the manual, as many believe it falls under posttraumatic stress disorder. Before the fifth edition (DSM5) was released, Stockholm syndrome was under consideration to be included under 'Disorders of Extreme Stress, Not Otherwise Specified'. The work was updated in 2013, but Stockholm syndrome was not present.\n\nResearchers have found that although there is a lot of media coverage of Stockholm syndrome, there has not been a lot of professional research into the phenomena. What little research has been done is often contradictory and does not always agree on what Stockholm syndrome is. The term has grown beyond kidnappings to all kinds of abuse. Also, there is no clear definition of symptoms to ‘diagnose’ the ‘syndrome’.\n\nA report by the FBI found that only 8% of kidnapping victims showed signs of Stockholm syndrome. The sensational nature of dramatic cases causes the public to perceive this phenomenon as the rule rather than the exception. For Stockholm syndrome to happen, FBI researchers have identified three key factors: the passage of time, continual contact, and small acts of kindness without direct and persistent abuse.\n\nRobbins and Anthony, who had historically studied a condition similar to Stockholm syndrome, known as destructive cult disorder, observed in their 1982 study that the 1970s were rich with apprehension surrounding the potential risks of brainwashing. They assert that brainwashing’s media attention during this time resulted in the fluid reception of Stockholm syndrome as a psychological condition.\n\nIt is possible that the label Stockholm syndrome is used too freely in cases in which it may not apply. Elizabeth Smart has been held as a classic example of Stockholm syndrome; however, she denies that she ever had any emotional attachment to her abusers. Although she chose not to run away when she had the chance, she emphasized that the threats from her captors to her and her family, and the direct presence of her captors influenced her decision to stay. Once freed from her captors, she gladly reunited with her family and felt no empathy for her abusers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20638398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20638398", "title": "Sustainability measurement", "text": "Sustainability measurement\n\nSustainability measurement is the quantitative basis for the informed management of sustainability. The metrics used for the measurement of sustainability (involving the sustainability of environmental, social and economic domains, both individually and in various combinations) are still evolving: they include indicators, benchmarks, audits, indexes and accounting, as well as assessment, appraisal and other reporting systems. They are applied over a wide range of spatial and temporal scales.\n\nSome of the best known and most widely used sustainability measures include corporate sustainability reporting, Triple Bottom Line accounting, and estimates of the quality of sustainability governance for individual countries using the Environmental Sustainability Index and Environmental Performance Index. An alternative approach, used by the United Nations Global Compact Cities Programme and explicitly critical of the triple-bottom-line approach is Circles of Sustainability.\n\nThe principal objective of sustainability indicators is to inform public policy-making as part of the process of sustainability governance.\nSustainability indicators can provide information on any aspect of the interplay between the environment and socio-economic activities. Building strategic indicator sets generally deals with just a few simple questions: what is happening? (descriptive indicators), does it matter and are we reaching targets? (performance indicators), are we improving? (efficiency indicators), are measures working? (policy effectiveness indicators), and are we generally better off? (total welfare indicators). One popular general framework used by The European Environment Agency uses a slight modification of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development DPSIR system. This breaks up environmental impact into five stages. Social and economic developments (consumption and production) \"(D)rive\" or initiate environmental \"(P)ressures\" which, in turn, produces a change in the \"(S)tate\" of the environment which leads to \"(I)mpacts\" of various kinds. Societal \"(R)esponses\" (policy guided by sustainability indicators) can be introduced at any stage of this sequence of events.\n\nThe United Nations has developed extensive sustainability measurement tools in relation to sustainable development as well as a System of Integrated Environmental and Economic Accounting.\n\nIn the last couple of decades there has arisen a crowded toolbox of quantitative methods used to assess sustainability — including measures of resource use like life cycle assessment, measures of consumption like the ecological footprint and measurements of quality of environmental governance like the Environmental Performance Index. The following is a list of quantitative \"tools\" used by sustainability scientists - the different categories are for convenience only as defining criteria will intergrade. It would be too difficult to list all those methods available at different levels of organisation so those listed here are at for the global level only.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPart of this process can relate to resource use such as energy accounting or to economic metrics or price system values as compared to non-market economics potential, for understanding resource use.\nAn important task for resource theory (energy economics) is to develop methods to optimize resource conversion processes. These systems are described and analyzed by means of the methods of mathematics and the natural sciences. Human factors, however, have dominated the development of our perspective of the relationship between nature and society since at least the Industrial Revolution, and in particular have influenced how we describe and measure the economic impacts of changes in resource quality. A balanced view of these issues requires an understanding of the physical framework in which all human ideas, institutions, and aspirations must operate.\n\nWhen oil production first began in the mid-nineteenth century, the largest oil fields recovered fifty barrels of oil for every barrel used in the extraction, transportation and refining. This ratio is often referred to as the Energy Return on Energy Investment (EROI or EROEI). Currently, between one and five barrels of oil are recovered for each barrel-equivalent of energy used in the recovery process. As the EROEI drops to one, or equivalently the Net energy gain falls to zero, the oil production is no longer a net energy source. This happens long before the resource is physically exhausted.\n\nNote that it is important to understand the distinction between a barrel of oil, which is a measure of oil, and a barrel of oil equivalent (BOE), which is a measure of energy. Many sources of energy, such as fission, solar, wind, and coal, are not subject to the same near-term supply restrictions that oil is. Accordingly, even an oil source with an EROEI of 0.5 can be usefully exploited if the energy required to produce that oil comes from a cheap and plentiful energy source. Availability of cheap, but hard to transport, natural gas in some oil fields has led to using natural gas to fuel enhanced oil recovery. Similarly, natural gas in huge amounts is used to power most Athabasca Tar Sands plants. Cheap natural gas has also led to Ethanol fuel produced with a net EROEI of less than 1, although figures in this area are controversial because methods to measure EROEI are in debate.\n\nInsofar as economic growth is driven by oil consumption growth, post-peak societies must adapt. M. King Hubbert believed:\n\nSome economists describe the problem as uneconomic growth or a false economy. At the political right, Fred Ikle has warned about \"conservatives addicted to the Utopia of Perpetual Growth\". Brief oil interruptions in 1973 and 1979 markedly slowed - but did not stop - the growth of world GDP.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1984, as the Green Revolution transformed agriculture around the globe, world grain production increased by 250%. The energy for the Green Revolution was provided by fossil fuels in the form of fertilizers (natural gas), pesticides (oil), and hydrocarbon fueled irrigation.\n\nDavid Pimentel, professor of ecology and agriculture at Cornell University, and Mario Giampietro, senior researcher at the National Research Institute on Food and Nutrition (INRAN), place in their study \"Food, Land, Population and the U.S. Economy\" the maximum U.S. population for a sustainable economy at 200 million. To achieve a sustainable economy world population will have to be reduced by two-thirds, says the study. Without population reduction, this study predicts an agricultural crisis beginning in 2020, becoming critical c. 2050. The peaking of global oil along with the decline in regional natural gas production may precipitate this agricultural crisis sooner than generally expected. Dale Allen Pfeiffer claims that coming decades could see spiraling food prices without relief and massive starvation on a global level such as never experienced before.\n\nAlthough Hubbert peak theory receives most attention in relation to peak oil production, it has also been applied to other natural resources.\n\nDoug Reynolds predicted in 2005 that the North American peak would occur in 2007. Bentley (p. 189) predicted a world \"decline in conventional gas production from about 2020\".\n\nPeak coal is significantly further out than peak oil, but we can observe the example of anthracite in the USA, a high grade coal whose production peaked in the 1920s. Anthracite was studied by Hubbert, and matches a curve closely. Pennsylvania's coal production also matches Hubbert's curve closely, but this does not mean that coal in Pennsylvania is exhausted—far from it. If production in Pennsylvania returned at its all-time high, there are reserves for 190 years. Hubbert had recoverable coal reserves worldwide at 2500 × 10 metric tons and peaking around 2150(depending on usage).\n\nMore recent estimates suggest an earlier peak. \"Coal: Resources and Future Production\" (PDF 630KB ), published on April 5, 2007 by the Energy Watch Group (EWG), which reports to the German Parliament, found that global coal production could peak in as few as 15 years. Reporting on this Richard Heinberg also notes that the date of peak annual energetic extraction from coal will likely come earlier than the date of peak in quantity of coal (tons per year) extracted as the most energy-dense types of coal have been mined most extensively. A second study,\n\"The Future of Coal\" by B. Kavalov and S. D. Peteves of the Institute for Energy (IFE), prepared for European Commission Joint Research Centre, reaches similar conclusions and states that\n\"\"coal might not be so abundant, widely available and reliable as an energy source in the future\".\n\nWork by David Rutledge of Caltech predicts that the total of world coal production will amount to only about 450 gigatonnes. This\nimplies that coal is running out faster than usually assumed.\n\nFinally, insofar as global peak oil and peak in natural gas are expected anywhere from imminently to within decades at most, any increase in coal production (mining) per annum to compensate for declines in oil or NG production, would necessarily translate to an earlier date of peak as compared with peak coal under a scenario in which annual production remains constant.\n\nIn a paper in 1956, after a review of US fissionable reserves, Hubbert notes of nuclear power:\n\nTechnologies such as the thorium fuel cycle, reprocessing and fast breeders can, in theory, considerably extend the life of uranium reserves. Roscoe Bartlett claims \n\nCaltech physics professor David Goodstein has stated that\n\nHubbert applied his theory to \"rock containing an abnormally high concentration of a given metal\" and reasoned that the peak production for metals such as copper, tin, lead, zinc and others would occur in the time frame of decades and iron in the time frame of two centuries like coal. The price of copper rose 500% between 2003 and 2007 was by some attributed to peak copper. Copper prices later fell, along with many other commodities and stock prices, as demand shrank from fear of a global recession. Lithium availability is a concern for a fleet of Li-ion battery using cars but a paper published in 1996 estimated that world reserves are adequate for at least 50 years. A similar prediction for platinum use in fuel cells notes that the metal could be easily recycled.\n\nPhosphorus supplies are essential to farming and depletion of reserves is estimated at somewhere from 60 to 130 years. Individual countries supplies vary widely; without a recycling initiative America's supply is estimated around 30 years. Phosphorus supplies affect total agricultural output which in turn limits alternative fuels such as biodiesel and ethanol.\n\nHubbert's original analysis did not apply to renewable resources. However over-exploitation often results in a Hubbert peak nonetheless. A modified Hubbert curve applies to any resource that can be harvested faster than it can be replaced.\n\nFor example, a reserve such as the Ogallala Aquifer can be mined at a rate that far exceeds replenishment. This turns much of the world's underground water and lakes into finite resources with peak usage debates similar to oil. These debates usually center around agriculture and suburban water usage but generation of electricity from nuclear energy or coal and tar sands mining mentioned above is also water resource intensive. The term fossil water is sometimes used to describe aquifers whose water is not being recharged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24093206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24093206", "title": "System F-sub", "text": "System F-sub\n\nIn the branch of mathematical logic known as type theory, System F, pronounced \"F-sub\", is an extension of system F with subtyping. System F has been of central importance to programming language theory since the 1980s because the core of functional programming languages, like those in the ML family, support both parametric polymorphism and record subtyping, which can be expressed in System F.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7097908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7097908", "title": "Thích Quảng Độ", "text": "Thích Quảng Độ\n\nThích Quảng Độ (born 27 November 1928) is a Vietnamese Buddhist monk and patriarch of the Unified Buddhist Sangha of Vietnam, a currently banned religious body in Vietnam. In 2002, he was awarded the Homo Homini Award for human rights activism by the Czech group People In Need, which he shared with Thích Huyền Quang and Thadeus Nguyễn Văn Lý.\n\nThích Quảng Độ was born in the Thái Bình Province of North Vietnam, at 14 he became a monk. At age 17 he witnessed his religious master executed by the revolutionary People's Tribunal.\n\nWhile a member of the leadership of the UBCV, Thích Quảng Độ became an activist, fighting against the anti-Buddhist policies of Ngô Đình Diệm. After a police raid of Buddhist monasteries in Hue and Saigon, Quảng Độ was arrested on August 20, 1963. He and thousands of other Buddhists endured torture and persecution while imprisoned by the Diem government. As a result of imprisonment, Độ struggled with tuberculosis before having a lung operation.\n\nIn 1975 Vietnam was under communist control, and the UBCV was once again unwelcome in Vietnam. As a result, the UBCV facilities were seized, and documents burned. Quảng Độ was active in protesting the governments actions, and after attempting to gather Buddhists from other regions in non-violent opposition, he was arrested on charges of anti-revolutionary activities and undermining national solidarity. He spent 20 months at the Phan Dang Luu Prison in solitary confinement, before he was trialed and released in December, 1978. Later that year he was nominated by Betty Williams and Mairead Maguire to receive the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nIn 1982 the Vietnamese Government created a Buddhist alternative, called the Vietnam Buddhist Church, which was state sponsored and controlled by the Vietnam Fatherland Front. Because of Quảng Độ's opposition to the new church, he was again jailed. Quảng Độ would spend the next 10 years in exile in the village of Vu Doai.\n\nYet again in 1995, while attempting to expose government abuse of the UBCV, he was arrested and sentenced to five years in prison.\n\nThích Quảng Độ became the President of the UBCV's Institute for the Dissemination of the Dharma in 1999, meaning that he was the second-ranking UBCV dignitary after patriarch Thich Huyen Quang. In 2008, as one of his last wishes Patriarch Quang named Thích Quảng Độ as the new patriarch of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam.\n\nIn 2001, Thích Quảng Độ received the Hellman-Hammet Award for persecuted writers.\n\nIn 2002, Thích Quảng Độ, together with Father Nguyễn Văn Lý, received Vietnam Human Rights Award from Vietnam Human Rights Network.\n\nIn 2003, Thích Quảng Độ was honored with the Homo Homini Award for human rights activism by the Czech group People in Need, which he shared with Thích Huyền Quảng and Father Nguyễn Văn Lý.\n\nIn 2006, Thích Quảng Độ was awarded the Thorolf Rafto Memorial Prize, in recognition of \"personal courage and perseverance through three decades of peaceful opposition against the communist regime in Vietnam, and as a symbol for the growing democracy movement\". Thích Quảng Độ was unable to the receive the award, as the government prevented him from attending the ceremony.\n\nIn 2006, Thích Quảng Độ was also awarded the Democracy Courage Tribute by the World Movement for Democracy.\n\nIn January 2008, the Europe-based magazine \"A Different View\" chose Độ as one of the 15 Champions of World Democracy. Others in the list include Nelson Mandela, Lech Wałęsa, Corazon Aquino, and Aung San Suu Kyi. \n\n9 time Nobel Peace Prize nominee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31708519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31708519", "title": "Transnational barrios", "text": "Transnational barrios\n\nTransnational Barrios as a concept within Latin American and Latino studies explains the social construction of space, place, culture, traditions, and artistic symbolic meanings that are established beyond national boundaries by diverse Latina/o populations in communities of a hosting country. Therefore Transnational Barrios are seen by scholars as critical spaces to celebrate and embrace cultural production, political mobilizations, ethnic identity and solidarity, and develop a sense of belonging within communities. \n\n\"Transnational\" as defined by Merriam-Webster Dictionary and Thesaurus, is extending or going beyond national boundaries or consisting of persons from different nationalities.\n\nAccording to Anthropologist \"Michael Kearney\", \"Transnational\" deals with forms of organization and identity of Latinas/os that are not restricted by national boundaries, meaning not being constraint by nation-state of origin in order to form a collective identity in a hosting country. \n\n\"Barrios\" refer to a part of an inner city area mostly composed of a Spanish-speaking population. “Both historically and today, barrio formations are the result of specific plans and policies on the local, state, and federal levels that have resulted in high levels of racial segregation, substandard and limited housing stock, poor schooling, and severely circumscribed mobility.”\n\nScholars such as \"Gina M. Perez\", \"Frank A. Guridy\", and \"Adrian Burgos Jr.\" believe that one must use the \"transnational\" approach in Latin American and Latino Studies to create a framework that will better apprehend the diverse experiences of Latinas/os in multiple contexts. As well as confronting the negative notions of \"Barrios\" as being places of social dislocation, and marginalized and criminalized locations. Transnational Barrios therefore strive to create and progress through new meanings, experiences, and identities of diverse and compelling Latina/o populations of various communities throughout the U.S.\n\nAn example of a Transnational Barrio is explained in \"Cary Cordova’s\" article “\"The Mission in Nicaragua\"” in regards to the Nicaraguan community in the Mission District of San Francisco. Nicaraguans in the U.S. mobilized in the 1970s during the \"Sandinista revolution\" to rally support for the overthrow of the current oppressive regime of \"Anastasio Somoza\". They believed that if the Sandinistas succeeded then Nicaragua would become a model for freedom and equality around the world, including the U.S. As citizens in Nicaragua were struggling with control over their own lives, so too were Nicaraguans in the U.S. due to the lack of social reforms needed by the community, mainly because of U.S. capitalism. Artists and activists used the ideas of the Nicaraguan revolution to express the political needs of Latinos in \"San Francisco\" and the Americas. Poets such as \"Alejandro Murguia, Roberto Vargas and Nina Serrano\" accomplished this by creating events such as poetry readings, rallies, demonstrations, and the creation of murals to illustrate the struggles of people in Nicaragua and in the U.S. Cordova demonstrates that the barrio served as a \"transnational space\" where ideas such as revolution, liberation and equality and political mobilization and solidarity could be transformed and used together to fight the revolution abroad and fight the war on the home front. \n\nLourdes Gutierrez Najera describes another example of using barrios as a \"transnational space\" with her study of Oaxacans in the city of Los Angeles. In her article \"Hayandose\", to maintain their Zapotec and Yalalteco indigenous identity, Oaxacans organize to aid one another in times of crisis such as in the viewing of a young Oaxacan individual where a traditional Oaxacan funeral ceremony was conducted in the Koreatown district of Los Angeles. Such practices demonstrate that their strong ties are established and maintained with their hometowns. Given the marginality of indigenous people both in Mexico and the U.S. they create a space of inclusion and belonging by practicing the same customs that they perform in Oaxaca. Traditional Oaxacan dances and festivals known as \"Guelaguetza's\" are as well an important means to celebrate their indigenous roots and reaffirm their ethnic membership within transnational borders. This folkloric dance along with the other customs Zapotecs and Yalaltecos bring with them, situate their barrio as a transnational space.\n\n\"The Nuyorican poetry movement\" of the 1970s in Manhattan’s Lower Eastside is one more example of a Transnational Barrio. The Nuyorican movement was seen as a venue for spoken word performances, stand-up comedy, poetry slams, musical performances and theater productions. The use of code switching between Spanish and English demonstrated the concern for the low income, poor experience of life in New York for Puerto Ricans, which strongly made visible the political motivation behind the poetry movement. \"Miguel Algarin, Miguel Pinero, Bittman “Bimbo” Rivas and Lucky Cienfuegos\" were among the creators and poets of the movement in the 1970s along with other poets such as \"Bob Holman, Saul Williams, Sarah Jones, and Beau Sia\". The transnational space created in the barrios of Manhattan’s Lower Eastside provide New York Puerto Ricans, or as they called themselves Nuyoricans, a chance to mobilize leftist ideals in their poetry, art performances and literature.\n"}
{"id": "19587346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19587346", "title": "Truth claim (photography)", "text": "Truth claim (photography)\n\nTruth claim, in photography, is a term Tom Gunning uses to describe the prevalent belief that traditional photographs accurately depict reality. He states that the truth claim relies on both the indexicality and visual accuracy of photographs.\n\nCharles Peirce's term 'indexicality' refers to the physical relationship between the object photographed and the resulting image. Paul Levinson emphasises the ability of photography to capture or reflect \"a literal energy configuration from the real world\" through a chemical process. Light sensitive emulsion on the photographic negative is transformed by light passing through the lens and diaphragm of a camera. Levinson relates this characteristic of the photograph to its objectivity and reliability, echoing Andre Bazin's belief that photography is free from the \"sin\" of subjectivity.\n\nA similar argument has been made for motion pictures by Stephen Maguire. Lev Manovich labels cinema \"the art of the index\", its traditional identity lying in its ability to capture reality. Denis McQuail likewise argues that film is capable of manipulating the \"...seeming reality of the photographic message without loss of credibility.\"\n\nGunning states that a photograph must also have \"iconicity\". To represent \"truth\" it must resemble the object it represents, which is not an inevitable characteristic of an index.\n\nLevinson suggests that icons have a powerful effect on individuals, particularly the \"direct image\" due to the \"sheer ease and sensual satisfaction\" of viewing it.\n\nGunning attributes the human fascination with photographs with a sense of the relationship between photography and reality, though he claims that the \"perceptual richness and nearly infinite detail\" of the image itself is more significant than a knowledge of its indexicality. He cites Bazin's idea that photography has an \"irrational power to bear away our faith.\"\n\nFurther, Susan Sontag relates the belief in a photograph's ability to capture 'reality' to the development of certain human practices. Since a picture confers on events \"a kind of immortality (and importance) it would never otherwise have enjoyed,\" she explains, the act of taking photographs has become essential to the experience of world travel. The possibility of 'true' photographs leads to a compulsion to \"[convert] experience into an image\" to \"make real what one is experiencing.\"\n\nDavid Croteau and William Hoynes suggest that the prevalence of photographic images has blurred the distinction between image and reality, referring to \"pseudo-events\", in Daniel Boorstin's words – such as press conferences, televised political debates, or 'photo opportunities' - that exist only to create images.\n\nFurther, Neil Postman argues that the photograph has redefined society's understanding of information and truth: \"Truth is in the seeing, not in the thinking.\" Postman suggests that the proliferation of photography led to the replacement of language with images as \"our dominant means for constructing, understanding, and testing reality\".\n\nSontag shares this view, suggesting that \"the 'realistic' view of the world compatible with bureaucracy redefines knowledge as \"techniques of information\".\n\nIn Sontag's view, a consequence of photography becoming a primary means for understanding reality is the emergence of \"bureaucratic cataloguing\". She claims that photography's perceived ability to give information results in the bureaucratic organization of modern states. Institutions of control, such as the police, are able to survey and control \"increasingly mobile populations\" through photographic documents, such as passports or identity cards.\n\nSontag also argues that through repeatedly capturing and viewing reality through photographs, their subjects can become less real. She claims that \"aesthetic distance seems built into the very experience of looking at photographs,\" and also that the sheer volume of horrific images throughout the world has produced a \"familiarity with atrocity, making the horrible seem more ordinary – making it appear familiar, remote … inevitable\".\n\nSontag's view is akin to Jean Baudrillard's theory of 'hyperreality', where \"reality itself founders\" as a result of an endless \"reduplication of the real\" via media such as photography. He claims that the possibility of infinite identical objects creates a \"relationship of equivalence, of indifference,\"...leading to the \"extinction of the original.\"\n\nIt has been argued that the digitisation of photography undermines its \"truth claim\".\n\nLevinson suggests that the digitisation of photography undermines \"the very reliability of the photograph as mute, unbiased witness of reality\" because of the fallibility of technological manipulation and the potential for human refinement of production.\n\nLev Manovich likewise questions the indexical identity of motion pictures, rather labelling cinema a subgenre of painting, since it is possible to digitally modify frames, generate photorealistic images entirely using 3-D computer animation, and \"...to cut, bend, stretch and stitch digitised film images into something which has perfect photographic credibility, although it was never actually filmed.\"\n\nIt has also been argued that digital photographs inevitably lack indexicality, based on an understanding of \"crucial distinctions between the analogue and the digital\" in the way they record 'reality'. For instance, Frosh describes photographs as \"codes without a message\" – \"repurposable visual content made of malleable info-pixels.\"\n\nGunning alternatively argues that digital photography, the process of encoding data about light in a matrix of numbers, is indexically determined by objects outside of the camera like chemical photography.\n\nLikewise, Martin Lister claims that even with a digital camera, \"The images produced are rendered photo-realistic, they borrow photography's currency, its deeply historical 'reality effect', simply in order to have meaning.\"\n\nSusan Sontag challenges the \"presumption of veracity\" associated with photographs, arguing that they are \"...as much an interpretation of the world as paintings and drawings are.\" She describes the role of the photographer in determining the exposure, light, texture and geometry of a photograph.\n\nGunning points to the physicality of the camera as a mediator between the photograph and reality. He notes that the use of a lens, film, a particular exposure, kind of shutter, and developing process \"...become magically whisked away if one considers the photograph as a direct imprint of reality.\"\n\nSontag also describes the inability of a photograph to capture enough information about its subject to be considered a representation of reality. She states, \"The camera's rendering of reality must always hide more than it discloses…only what which narrates can make us understand.\"\n\nFurther, Roland Barthes notes that the human subject can be made less real through the process of being photographed. He notes, \"Once I feel myself observed by the lens, everything changes: I constitute myself in the process of 'posing', I instantaneously make another body for myself, transform myself in advance into an image.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34057414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34057414", "title": "Veridicality", "text": "Veridicality\n\nIn linguistics, veridicality is a semantic or grammatical assertion of the truth of an utterance. For example, the statement \"Paul saw a snake\" asserts the truthfulness of the claim, while \"Paul \"did\" see a snake\" is an even stronger assertion. Negation is veridical, though of opposite polarity, sometimes called \"antiveridical\": \"Paul didn't see a snake\" asserts that the statement \"Paul saw a snake\" is false. In English, non-indicative moods are frequently used in a nonveridical sense: \"Paul may have seen a snake\" and \"Paul would have seen a snake\" do not assert that Paul actually saw a snake (and the second implies that he did not), though \"Paul would indeed have seen a snake\" is veridical, and some languages have separate veridical conditional moods for such cases.\n\nThe formal definition of veridicality views the context as a propositional operator.\n\n\nFor temporal and aspectual operators, the definition of veridicality is somewhat more complex:\n\n\nNonveridical operators typically license the use of \"polarity items\", which in veridical contexts normally is ungrammatical:\n\nAll downward entailing contexts are nonveridical. Because of this, theories based on nonveridicality can be seen as extending those based on downward entailment, allowing to explain more cases of PI licensing.\n\nDownward entailment predicts that polarity items will be licensed in the scope of negation, downward entailing quantifiers like \"few N\", \"at most n N\", \"no N\", and the restriction of \"every\":\n\nQuantifiers like \"exactly three students\", \"nobody but John\", and \"almost nobody\" are non-monotone (and thus not downward entailing) but nevertheless admit \"any\":\n\n\"Hardly\" and \"barely\" allow for \"any\" despite not being downward entailing.\n\nPolarity items are quite frequent in questions, although questions are not monotone.\n\nAlthough questions biased towards the negative answer, such as \"Do you <nowiki>[even]</nowiki> give a damn about any books?\" (tag questions based on negative sentences exhibit even more such bias), can sometimes be seen as downward entailing, this approach cannot account for the general case, such as the above example where the context is perfectly neutral. Neither can it explain why negative questions, which naturally tend to be biased, don't license negative polarity items.\n\nIn semantics which treats a question as the set of its true answers, the denotation of a polar question contains two possible answers:\n\nBecause disjunction \"p\" ∨ \"q\" entails neither \"p\" nor \"q\", the context is nonveridical, which explains the admittance of \"any\".\n\nPolarity items appear in future sentences.\n\nAccording to the formal definition of veridicality for temporal operators, future is nonveridical: that \"John will buy a bottle of Merlot\" is true \"now\" does not entail that \"John buys a bottle of Merlot\" is true at any instant up to and including \"now\". On the other hand, past is veridical: that \"John bought a bottle of Merlot\" is true \"now\" entails that there is an instant preceding \"now\" at which \"John buys a bottle of Merlot\" is true.\n\nLikewise, nonveridicality of the habitual aspect licenses polarity items.\n\nThe habitual aspect is nonveridical because e.g., that \"He is usually cheerful\" is true over some interval of time does not entail that \"He is cheerful\" is true over every subinterval of that. This is in contrast to e.g., the progressive aspect, which is veridical and prohibits negative polarity items.\n\nNon-monotone generic sentences accept polarity items.\n\nModal verbs create generally good environments for polarity items:\n\nSuch contexts are nonveridical despite being non-monotone and sometimes even upward entailing (\"John must tango\" entails \"John must dance\").\n\nImperatives are roughly parallel to modal verbs and intensional contexts in general.\n\nProtasis of conditionals is one of the most common environments for polarity items.\n\nPolarity items are licensed with directive propositional attitudes but not with epistemic ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "14468359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14468359", "title": "Verification (spaceflight)", "text": "Verification (spaceflight)\n\nVerification in the field of space systems engineering covers two verification processes: Qualification and Acceptance\n\nIn the field of spaceflight verification standards are developed by NASA and the ECSS, and to specify requirements for the verification of a space system product, such as:\n\nVerification is one main reason that costs for space systems are high. All data are to be documented and to stay accessible for potential, later failure analyses. In previous times that approach was executed down to piece-parts level (resistors, switches etc.) whereas nowadays it is tried to reduce cost by usage of \"CAM (Commercial, Avionics, Military) equipment\" for non-safety relevant units.\n\nQualification is the formal proof that the design meets all requirements of the specification and the parameters agreed in the Interface Control Documents (ICD) including tolerances due to manufacturing imperfections, wear-out within specified life-time, faults etc. The end of the qualification process is the approval signature of the customer on the Certificate of Qualification (COQ) agreeing that all his requirements are met.\n\nAcceptance is the formal proof that the product identified by its serial number meets all requirements of the specification and is free of workmanship and material failures. Acceptance is based on the preceding qualification by reference to the used design / manufacturing documentation. The end of the acceptance process is the approval signature of the customer on the Certificate of Acceptance (COA) agreeing that all his requirements are met by the product to be delivered.\n\nQualification verification methods are\nEach software element will be tested alone and as part of the overall system configuration until considered as qualified.\n\nAcceptance verification methods are\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46898685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46898685", "title": "Virtue name", "text": "Virtue name\n\nVirtue names, also known as grace names, are used as personal names in a number of cultures. In the English-speaking world, the Puritans commonly expressed their values through creative names, many in the form of virtue names like Grace, Felicity, Chastity or Hope. These names have entered the standard British and American usage, without the religious connection.\n\nVirtue names, such as Iman, can also be found in the Islamic world.\n\n"}
{"id": "1255961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1255961", "title": "Zero waste", "text": "Zero waste\n\nZero Waste is a philosophy that encourages the redesign of resource life cycles so that all products are reused. The goal is for no trash to be sent to landfills, incinerators, or the ocean. The process recommended is one similar to the way that resources are reused in nature. The definition adopted by the \"Zero Waste International Alliance\" (ZWIA) is:\n\nZero Waste: The conservation of all resources by means of responsible production, consumption, reuse, and recovery of all products, packaging, and materials, without burning them, and without discharges to land, water, or air that threaten the environment or human health. \n\nZero Waste refers to waste management and planning approaches which emphasize waste prevention as opposed to end-of-pipe waste management. It is a whole systems approach that aims for a massive change in the way materials flow through society, resulting in no waste. Zero waste encompasses more than eliminating waste through recycling and reuse, it focuses on restructuring production and distribution systems to reduce waste. Zero waste is more of a goal or ideal rather than a hard target. Zero Waste provides guiding principles for continually working towards eliminating wastes.\n\nAdvocates expect that government regulation is needed to influence industrial choices over product and packaging design, manufacturing processes, and material selection.\nAdvocates say eliminating waste decreases pollution, and can also reduce costs due to the reduced need for raw materials.\n\nCradle-to-grave is a term used to describe a linear model for materials that begins with resource extraction, moves to product manufacturing, and, ends by a ‘grave’, where the product is disposed of in a landfill. Cradle-to-grave is in direct contrast to cradle-to-cradle. Cradle-to-cradle is a term used in life-cycle analysis to describe a material or product that is recycled into a new product at the end of its life, so that ultimately there is no waste.\n\nCradle-to-cradle focuses on designing industrial systems so that materials flow in closed loop cycles which mean fun that waste is minimized, and waste products can be recycled and reused. Cradle-to-cradle simply goes beyond dealing with issues of waste after it has been created, by addressing problems at the source and by re-defining problems by focusing on design. The cradle-to-cradle model is sustainable and considerate of life and future generations.\n\nThe cradle-to-cradle framework has evolved steadily from theory to practice. In the industrial sector, it is creating a new notion of materials and material flows. Just as in the natural world, in which one organism’s ‘waste’, cycles through an ecosystem to provide nourishment for other living things, cradle-to-cradle materials circulate in closed-loop cycles, providing nutrients for nature or industry.\n\nAn example of a closed loop, cradle-to-cradle product design is DesignTex Fabric. It has designed an upholstery fabric, Climatex Lifecycle, which is a blend of pesticide- and residue-free wool and organically grown ramie, dyed and processed entirely with nontoxic chemicals.\n\nThe spread of industrialization worldwide has been accompanied by a large increase in waste production. In 2012 the World Bank stated that 1.3billion tonnes of municipal waste was produced by urban populations and estimates that that number will reach 2.2 billion tonnes by 2025 (Global Solid Waste Management Market - Analysis and Forecast). The increase in solid waste production increase the need for landfills. With the increase in urbanization these landfills are being placed closer to communities. These landfills are disproportionately located in areas of low socioeconomic status with primarily non-white populations. Findings indicated these areas are often targeted as waste sites because permits are more easily acquired and there was generally less community resistance. Additionally, within the last five years, more than 400 hazardous waste facilities have received formal enforcement actions for unspecified violations that were considered to be a risk to human health.\n\nThere is a growing global population that is faced with limited resources from the environment. To relieve the pressures placed on the finite resources available it has become more important to prevent waste. To achieve zero waste, waste management has to move from a linear system to being more cyclical so that materials, products and substances are used as efficiently as possible. Materials must be chosen so that it may either return safely to a cycle within the environment or remain viable in the industrial cycle.\n\nZero waste promotes not only reuse and recycling, but, more importantly, it promotes prevention and product designs that consider the entire product life cycle. Zero waste designs strive for reduced materials use, use of recycled materials, use of more benign materials, longer product lives, reparability, and ease of disassembly at end of life. Zero waste strongly supports sustainability by protecting the environment, reducing costs and producing additional jobs in the management and handling of wastes back into the industrial cycle. A Zero waste strategy may be applied to businesses, communities, industrial sectors, schools and homes.\n\nBenefits proposed by advocates include:\n\nA major issue with landfills is hydrogen sulfide, which is released during the natural decay of waste. Studies have shown a positive association between increased lung cancer mortality rates and increased morbidity and mortality related to respiratory disease and hydrogen sulfide exposure. These studies also showed that the hydrogen sulfide exposure increased with proximity to the landfill.\n\nHousehold chemicals and prescription drugs are increasingly being found in large quantities in the leachate from landfills. This is causing concern about the ability of landfills to contain these materials, and the possibility of these chemicals and drugs making their way into the ground water and the surrounding environment.\n\nZero waste promotes a circular material flow that allows materials to be used over and over, reducing the need for landfill space. Through zero waste the number of toxins released into the air and water would be decreased and products examined to determine what chemicals are used in the production process.\n\nHealth Issues related to landfills:\nZero waste’s promotion of a cyclical product life can help reduce the need to create and fill landfills. This can help reduce incidences of respiratory diseases and birth defects that are associated with the toxins released from landfills. Zero waste also can help preserve local environments and drinking water sources by preventing pollutants from entering the ecosystem.\n\nThe movement gained publicity and reached a peak in 1998–2002, and since then has been moving from \"theory into action\" by focusing on how a \"zero waste community\" is structured and behaves. The website of the Zero Waste International Alliance has a listing of communities across the globe that have created public policy to promote zero-waste practices. See also the Eco-Cycle website for examples of how this large nonprofit is leading Boulder County, Colorado on a Zero-Waste path and watch a 6-minute video about the zero-waste big picture. Finally, there is a USA zero-waste organization named the GrassRoots Recycling Network that puts on workshops and conferences about zero-waste activities.\n\nThe California Integrated Waste Management Board established a zero waste goal in 2001. The City and County of San Francisco’s Department of the Environment established a goal of zero waste in 2002, which led to the City's Mandatory Recycling and Composting Ordinance in 2009. With its ambitious goal of zero waste and policies, San Francisco reached a record-breaking 80% diversion rate in 2010, the highest diversion rate in any North American city. San Francisco received a perfect score in the waste category in the Siemens US and Canada Green City Index, which named San Francisco the greenest city in North America.\n\nThe tension between zero waste, viewed as post-discard total recycling of materials only, and zero waste as the reuse of all high level function remains a serious one today. It is probably the defining difference between established recyclers and emerging zero-wasters. A signature example is the difference between smashing a glass bottle (recovering cheap glass) and refilling the bottle (recovering the entire function of the container).\nThe tension between the literal application of natural processes and the creation of industry-specific more efficient reuse modalities is another tension. Many observers look to nature as an ultimate model for production and innovative materials. Others point out that industrial products are inherently non-natural (such as chemicals and plastics that are mono-molecular) and benefit greatly from industrial methods of reuse, while natural methods requiring degradation and reconstitution are wasteful in that context.\nBiodegradable plastic is the most prominent example. One side argues that biodegradation of plastic is wasteful because plastic is expensive and environmentally damaging to make. Whether made of starch or petroleum, the manufacturing process expends all the same materials and energy costs. Factories are built, raw materials are procured, investments are made, machinery is built and used, humans labor and make use of all normal human inputs for education, housing, food etc. Even if the plastic is biodegraded after a single use, all of those costs are lost so it is much more important to design plastic parts for multiple reuse or perpetual lives. The other side argues that keeping plastic out of a dump or the sea is the sole benefit of interest.\nCompanies moving towards \"zero landfill\" plants include Subaru, Xerox and Anheuser-Busch.\n\nThe movement continues to grow among the youth around the world under the organization Zero Waste Youth, which originated in Brazil and has spread to Argentina, Puerto Rico, Mexico, the United States, and Russia. The organization multiplies with local volunteer ambassadors who lead zero waste gatherings and events to spread the zero waste message.\n\nMilk can be shipped in many forms. One of the traditional forms was reusable returnable glass milk bottles, often home delivered by a milkman. While some of this continues, other options have recently been more common: one-way gable-top paperboard cartons, one-way aseptic cartons, one-way recyclable glass bottles, one-way milk bags, and others. Each system claims some advantages and also has possible disadvantages. From the zero waste standpoint, the reuse of bottles is beneficial because the material usage per trip can be less than other systems. The primary input (or resource) is silica-sand, which is formed into glass and then into a bottle. The bottle is filled with milk and distributed to the consumer. A reverse logistics system returns the bottles for cleaning, inspection, sanitization, and reuse. Eventually the heavy duty bottle would not be suited for further use and would be recycled. Waste and landfill usage would be minimized. The material waste is primarily the wash water, detergent, transportation, heat, bottle caps, etc. While true zero waste is never achieved, a life cycle assessment can be used to calculate the waste at each phase of each cycle.\n\nIt is important to distinguish recycling from Zero Waste.\nSome claim that the key component to zero waste is recycling while others reject that notion in favor of reusing high function. The common understanding of recycling is simply that of placing bottles and cans in a recycle bin. The modern version of recycling is more complicated and involves many more elements of financing and government support. For example, a 2007 report by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency states that the US recycles at a national rate of 33.4% and includes in this figure composted materials. In addition many worldwide commodity industries have been created to handle the materials that are recycled. At the same time, claims of recycling rates have sometimes been exaggerated, for example by the inclusion of soil and organic matter used to cover garbage dumps daily, in the \"recycled\" column. In states with recycling incentives, there is constant local pressure to pump up the recycling rate figures.\nThe movement toward recycling has separated itself from the concept of zero waste. One example of this is the computer industry where worldwide millions of PC's are disposed of as electronic waste each year (160 million in 2007). Those computers that enter the recycling stream are broken down into a small amount of raw materials while most merely enter dumps through export to third world countries. Companies are then able to purchase some raw materials, notably steel, copper and glass, reducing the use of new materials. On the other hand, there is an industry, more aligned with the Zero Waste principle of design for long term reuse, that actually repairs computers. It is called the Computer Refurbishing industry and it predates the current campaign to just collect and ship electronics. They have organizations and conferences and have for many years donated computers to schools, clinics and non-profits. Zero Waste planning demands that components be redesigned for effective reuse over long lives leading to even more refurbishing and repair.\nThere is one seminal example that brings out the difference between Zero Waste and recycling in stark relief. That example, quoted in Getting To Zero Waste, is the software business. Zero Waste is sensitive to the waste of intellectual effort that would be caused by the need to recreate certain basic inventions of software (called objects in software design) as opposed to copying them over and over whenever needed. The waste would occur as the software developers consume resources while solving problems already solved earlier. The application of Zero Waste analysis is straightforward as it recommends conserving human effort. On the other hand, the usual approach of recycling would be to look for some materials that could be found to reuse. The materials on which software is saved (such as paper or diskettes)is of little significance compared to the saving of human effort and if software is saved electronically, there is no media at all. Thus Zero Waste correctly identifies a wasteful behavior to avoid while recycling has no application.\nThe recycling movement has been embraced by the garbage industry because it serves so well as greenwashing i.e. a way to show that design for garbage creation is acceptable because materials will be kept out of a dump by recycling them. Zero Waste, on the other hand, offers the garbage industry no such screen against public condemnation of waste, and therefore actually threatens the continued need for garbage disposal. For example, in Alameda County, California, garbage dumping is charged a surcharge of $8/ton (as of 2009) which goes entirely for a recycling subsidy but none of which goes for any kind of Zero Waste style designing. Zero Waste has received no support from the garbage industry or politicians under their control except in those cases where it can be claimed to consist solely of more recycling.\n\nZero waste is poorly supported by the enactment of government laws to enforce the waste hierarchy of refuse, reduce, reuse, recycle and rot (compost). In practice, these laws invariably emphasize destruction and recycling, while the reuse component is marginalized.\nA special feature of Zero Waste as a design principle is that it can be applied to any product or process, in any situation or at any level. Thus it applies equally to toxic chemicals as to benign plant matter. It applies to the waste of atmospheric purity by coal burning or the waste of radioactive resources by attempting to designate the excesses of nuclear power plants as \"nuclear waste\". All processes can be designed to minimize the need for discard, both in their own operations and in the usage or consumption patterns which the design of their products leads to. Recycling, on the other hand, deals only with simple materials.\nZero Waste can even be applied to the waste of human potential by enforced poverty and the denial of educational opportunity. It encompasses redesign for reduced energy wasting in industry or transportation and the wasting of the earth's rainforests. It is a general principle of designing for the efficient use of all resources, however defined.\n\nThe recycling movement may be slowly branching out from its solid waste management base to include issues that are similar to the community sustainability movement.\nZero waste on the other hand, is not based in waste management limitations to begin with but requires that we maximize our existing reuse efforts while creating and applying new methods that minimize and eliminate destructive methods like incineration and recycling. Zero Waste strives to ensure that products are designed to be repaired, refurbished, re-manufactured and generally reused.. (\"What is Zero Waste?\", para 2).\n\nOnline web services, like Free Cycle or the reGives Network have risen in popularity over the last decade where locals can give items that they no longer need to others locally in an effort to keep items out of landfills and work toward a zero waste lifestyle.\n\nMany dumps are currently exceeding carrying capacity. This is often used as a justification for moving to Zero Waste. Others counter by pointing out that there are huge tracts of land available throughout the USA and other countries which could be used for dumps. Proposals abound to destroy all garbage as a way to solve the garbage problem. These proposals typically claim to convert all or a large portion of existing garbage into oil and sometimes claim to produce so much oil that the world will henceforth have abundant liquid fuels. One such plan, called Anything Into Oil, was promoted by Discover Magazine and Fortune Magazine in 2004 and claimed to be able to convert a refrigerator into \"light Texas crude\" by the application of high pressure steam.\n\nAn example of a company that has demonstrated a change in landfill waste policy is General Motors (GM). GM has confirmed their plans to make approximately half of its 181 plants worldwide \"landfill-free\" by the end of 2010. Companies like Subaru, Toyota, and Xerox are also producing landfill-free plants. Furthermore, The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has worked with GM and other companies for decades to minimize the waste through its WasteWise program. The goal for General Motors is finding ways to recycle or reuse more than 90% of materials by: selling scrap materials, adopting reusable parts boxes to replace cardboard, and even recycling used work gloves. The remainder of the scraps might be incinerated to create energy for the plants. Besides being nature friendly, it also saves money by cutting out waste and producing a more efficient production. All these organizations push forth to make our world clean and producing zero waste.\n\nThe waste sent to landfills may be harvested as useful materials, such as in the production of solar energy or natural fertilizer /de-composted manure for crops.\n\nIt may also be reused and recycled for something that we can actually use. \"The success of General Motors in creating zero-landfill facilities shows that zero-waste goals can be a powerful impetus for manufacturers to reduce their waste and carbon footprint,\" says Latisha Petteway, a spokesperson for the EPA.\n\nRoper's comments in the paragraph above are either misquoted or wrong concerning wood flooring, structural wood and bricks needing to be crushed. Brick, wood and stone are among the oldest truly recyclable materials used in construction. A historic review of old buildings, barns and bridges clearly shows that brick, stones and timber are reused from older buildings. Some of the oldest structures on the planet are built with materials that were recycled from previous structures. One recent example is the Mayflower Barn at Jordans just north of High Wycombe, UK. The barn is clearly built of reused timbers, possibly sourced from the salvage of the Mayflower ship. It is simply a fact of life that historically materials that could be reused were reused.\n\nIn more recent construction, structural timber components, including large timbers, glued laminated beams, floor joists, studs and flooring are some of the most valuable structural components salvaged when a structure is demolished if there is an interest in salvaging. If you need proof, go down to any local construction salvage yard and look at the value of trusses, wood beams, floor joists, studs and flooring. Today they have value when someone saves them.\n\nOne of the barriers of reusing structural materials is the bias of building code officials and building departments that discriminate against reusing materials. Codes and building departments require compliance to codes, including the source of materials. Your average contractor cannot just use 100-year-old 2x8 (50x200) salvaged floor joists because the building department requires a graded joist. The contractor then has to find an engineer or wood technologist to verify the material suitability for its use. While the codes technically allow this under alternative method, modern attention to cost usually prevents that option.\n\nMarket-based, legislation-mediated campaigns like Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) and the Precautionary Principle are among numerous campaigns that have a Zero Waste slogan hung on them by means of claims they will ineluctably lead to policies of Zero Waste. At the moment, there is no evidence that EPR will increase reuse, rather than merely moving discard and disposal into private-sector dumping contracts. The Precautionary Principle is put forward to shift liability for proving new chemicals are safe from the public (acting as guinea pig) to the company introducing them. As such, its relation to Zero Waste is dubious. Likewise, many organizations, cities and counties have embraced a Zero Waste slogan while pressing for none of the key Zero Waste changes. In fact, it is common for many such to simply state that recycling is their entire goal. Many commercial or industrial companies claim to embrace Zero Waste but usually mean no more than a major materials recycling effort, having no bearing on product redesign. Examples include Staples, Home Depot, Toyota, General Motors and computer take-back campaigns. Earlier social justice campaigns have successfully pressured McDonald’s to change their meat purchasing practices and Nike to change its labor practices in Southeast Asia. Those were both based on the idea that organized consumers can be active participants in the economy and not just passive subjects. However, the announced and enforced goal of the public campaign is critical. A goal to reduce waste generation or dumping through greater recycling will not achieve a goal of product redesign and so cannot reasonably be called a Zero Waste campaign.\n\nNational and provincial governments often set targets and may provide some funding, but on a practical level, waste management programs (e.g. pickup, dropoff, or containers for recycling and composting) are usually implemented by local governments, possibly with regionally shared facilities.\n\nReaching the goal of zero waste requires the products of manufacturers and industrial designers to be easily disassembled for recycling and incorporated back into nature or the industrial system; durability and repairability also reduce unnecessary churn in the product lifecycle. Minimizes packaging also solves many problems early in the supply chain. If not mandated by government, choices by retailers and consumers in favor of zero-waste-friendly products can influence production. To prevent material from becoming waste, consumers, businesses, and non-profits must be educated in how to reduce waste and recycle successfully.\n\nThe \"Zero Waste Hierarchy\" describes a progression of policies and strategies to support the Zero Waste system, from highest and best to lowest use of materials. It is designed to be applicable to all audiences, from policy-makers to industry and the individual. It aims to provide more depth to the internationally recognized 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle); to encourage policy, activity and investment at the top of the hierarchy; and to provide a guide for those who wish to develop systems or products that move us closer to Zero Waste. It enhances the Zero Waste definition by providing guidance for planning and a way to evaluate proposed solutions.All over the world, in some form or another, a pollution prevention hierarchy is incorporated into recycling regulations, solid waste management plans, and resource conservation programs. In Canada, a pollution prevention hierarchy otherwise referred to as the Environmental Protection Hierarchy was adopted. This Hierarchy has been incorporated into all recycling regulations within Canada and is embedded within all resource conservation methods which all government mandated waste prevention programs follow. While the intention to incorporate the 4th R (recovery)prior to disposal was good, many organizations focused on this 4th R instead of the top of the hierarchy resulting in costly systems designed to destroy materials instead of systems designed to reduce environmental impact and waste. Because of this, along with other resource destruction systems that have been emerging over the past few decades, Zero Waste Canada along with the Zero Waste International Alliance have adopted the only internationally peer reviewed Zero Waste Hierarchy that focuses on the first 3Rs; Reduce, Reuse and Recycle including Compost .\n\nVarious governments have declared zero waste as a goal, including:\n\n\nAn example of network governance approach can be seen in the UK under New Labour who proposed the establishment of regional groupings that brought together the key stakeholders in waste management (local authority representatives, waste industry, government offices etc.) on a voluntary basis. There is a lack of clear government policy on how to meet the targets for diversion from landfill which increases the scope at the regional and local level for governance networks. The overall goal is set by government but the route for how to achieve it is left open, so stakeholders can coordinate and decide how best to reach it.\n\nZero Waste is a strategy promoted by environmental NGOs but the waste industry is more in favour of the capital intensive option of energy from waste incineration. Research often highlights public support as the first requirement for success. In Taiwan, public opinion was essential in changing the attitude of business, who must transform their material use pattern to become more sustainable for Zero Waste to work.\n\nThe latest development in Zero Waste is the city of Masdar in Abu Dhabi which promises to be a Zero Waste city. Innovation and technology is encouraged by government creating an innovation friendly environment without being prescriptive. To be a successful model of sustainable urban development it will also require the involvement and co-operation from all members of society emphasizing the importance of network governance.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
