{"id": "6257258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6257258", "title": "Adam Morton", "text": "Adam Morton\n\nAdam Morton, (born John Garibian 1945) is a Canadian philosopher and author. \n\nMorton's work has focused on how we understand one another's behaviour in everyday life, with an emphasis on the role mutual intelligibility plays in cooperative activity. He has also written on ethics, decision-making, philosophy of language and epistemology. His more recent work concerns our vocabulary for evaluating and monitoring our thinking. Morton was Professor of Philosophy from 1980 to 2000 at the University of Bristol in the UK, and is now at the University of British Columbia. \n\nHe was president of the Aristotelian Society during 1998/1999 and in 2006 was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\nMorton is author of \"Frames of mind: constraints on the common sense conception of the mental\" (1980), \"Disasters and dilemmas: Strategies for real-life decision making\" (1990), \"The importance of being understood: folk psychology as ethics\" (2002), \"On Evil\" (2005), \"Bounded Thinking: intellectual virtues for limited agents\" (2012), \"Emotion and Imagination\" (2013), and two textbooks, \"A Guide Through the Theory of Knowledge\" (2002) and \"Philosophy in Practice\" (2003). Along with Stephen P. Stich, he co-edited \"Benacerraf and his Critics\" (1997).\n\n"}
{"id": "49801286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49801286", "title": "Akhtar Husain", "text": "Akhtar Husain\n\nDr Akhtar Husain (1912-1992 ) also known as Dr Akhtar Husain Raipuri was a Pakistani scholar, journalist and lexicographer. He is also the author of the book \"The Dust of the Road: A Translation of Gard-e-Raah\" that was translated into English many years after his death.\n\nAkhtar Husain was born in the district of Raipur in the British Indian Empire, now within the state of Chhatisgarh, Republic of India. He was born to Saiyyed Akbar Husain, an engineer stationed in Raipur. His mother Mumtazunnisa was a publisher in women's journals. She died at age twenty-six when Akhtar was just three.\n\nAs a child, Akhtar became fond of reading and saved money to buy books in Hindi (a major register of Hindustani written in the Sanskrit script), but could not read Urdu (another major register of Hindustani written in the Perso-Arabic script) as fluently. At age twelve, his school teacher asked him to help organize the school library, and his command over Hindi was so strong that, apart from reading it, he began writing in the language, and \"his first story “Parajit” (Defeated) was published in Madhuri, a reputed literary journal, when he was only 16 years old.\"\n\nHusain moved to Calcutta to pursue advanced studies which at the time was also a major center for publication in Bengali, Hindi and Urdu. But after leaving there in 1932, Husain went on to translate popular works from Bengali poet Qazi Nazrul Islam into Urdu. According to Husain, Babu Moolchand and Maulvi Abdul Huq as his two major life influences.\n\nHe also became acquainted with friends with the poets Saghar Nizami and Majaz Nizami. Huq upon reading Husain's works encouraged him to increase his attention to literature rather than journalism. Huq encouraged Husain to assist him in the development of an English–Hindi dictionary and the publication of the Urdu journal. After Husain agreed, the two of them moved to Aurangabad where they started \"Anjuman-i Taraqqi-i Urdu\" and worked for about two years. During that time, Husain also reviewed Urdu books under the pseudonym \"Nakhuda\". Over this time bonds between Husain and Abdul Haq.\n\nBy 1935, Husain married Hamida, daughter of police officer and crime fiction novelist Zafar Omar. Akhtar Husain witnessed the historic 1936 meeting of Sahitya Parishad in which Mahatma Gandhi declared that Hindi rather than Hindustani (which includes Urdu and technically Caribbean Hindustani as well) be the national language of India upon independence.\n\nUpon this, Haq stopped all his works in Hindi, including the development of the English-Hindi dictionary, and Husain left Aurangabad for Dehli where he had difficulty settling for a career as a result of his application being rejected.\n\nHe then applied to Sorbonne where he pursued a PHD in ancient life in the Indian subcontinent based on Sanskrit texts. His thesis adviser was Marc Bloch. He also briefly worked as a translator to support himself financially. He also later worked in news bulletins to write news analysis. He also worked with the Radio's Dictionary Committee.\n\nBy 1942, Husain became Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Amritsar. Mutually, he also translated a three volume autobiography of Gorky. He also continued to write short stories (\"Zindagi ka Mela\"). By 1945, Husain worked as an assistant in the education department at Simla, where he also got the opportunity to work for Maulana Abul Kalam Azad.\n\nTwo years within the end of the Second World War and the end of the British Raj, Husain and his family relocated to Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It was around this time it was reported that violence between Brahmans and Muslims intensified.\n\nIn Pakistan, Husain continued working in the educational fields, where he worked as secretary. Dissatisfied with the political direction Pakistani society had headed for, he took up a job at UNESCO where he retired from in 1972.\n\nSome of his major works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "40086505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40086505", "title": "Aslak Torjusson", "text": "Aslak Torjusson\n\nAslak Torjusson (4 March 1891 – 26 April 1973) was a Norwegian educator.\n\nHe was born in Rauland. He took teacher's education in Holmestrand in 1912, finished secondary education in 1918 and graduated from the Royal Frederick University with the cand.philol. degree in 1923. While doing so he was a primary school teacher from 1912 to 1920 and then a teacher at Telemark Folk High School for four years.\n\nFrom 1927 to 1936 he was the secretary of Noregs Mållag. He was then the headmaster of Buskerud Folk High School from 1936 to 1952 and lecturer at Sagene Teachers' College from 1952 to 1961. He was also a board member of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation from 1933 to 1947.\n\nHe issued the book \"Frøydis Haavardsholm og norsk leid i dekorativ kunst\" in 1933. He did not manage to complete his standard work about Norwegian folk high schools—\"Den norske folkehøgskulen. Opphav og grunnlag\"—within his lifespan, but it was finished by Helge Dahl in 1977.\n\nHe died in April 1973. His daughter Anne Torjusson Diesen was assisting director of television in the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation in the 1990s, and an experienced journalist covering the Norwegian Royal Court. She was married to Erik Diesen.\n"}
{"id": "637199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637199", "title": "Automatic summarization", "text": "Automatic summarization\n\nAutomatic summarization is the process of shortening a text document with software, in order to create a summary with the major points of the original document. Technologies that can make a coherent summary take into account variables such as length, writing style and syntax.\n\nAutomatic data summarization is part of machine learning and data mining. The main idea of summarization is to find a subset of data which contains the \"information\" of the entire set. Such techniques are widely used in industry today. Search engines are an example; others include summarization of documents, image collections and videos. Document summarization tries to create a representative summary or abstract of the entire document, by finding the most informative sentences, while in image summarization the system finds the most representative and important (i.e. salient) images. For surveillance videos, one might want to extract the important events from the uneventful context.\n\nThere are two general approaches to automatic summarization: extraction and abstraction. Extractive methods work by selecting a subset of existing words, phrases, or sentences in the original text to form the summary. In contrast, abstractive methods build an internal semantic representation and then use natural language generation techniques to create a summary that is closer to what a human might express. Such a summary might include verbal innovations. Research to date has focused primarily on extractive methods, which are appropriate for image collection summarization and video summarization.\n\nIn this summarization task, the automatic system extracts objects from the entire collection, without modifying the objects themselves. Examples of this include keyphrase extraction, where the goal is to select individual words or phrases to \"tag\" a document, and document summarization, where the goal is to select whole sentences (without modifying them) to create a short paragraph summary. Similarly, in image collection summarization, the system extracts images from the collection without modifying the images themselves.\n\nExtraction techniques merely copy the information deemed most important by the system to the summary (for example, key clauses, sentences or paragraphs), while abstraction involves paraphrasing sections of the source document. In general, abstraction can condense a text more strongly than extraction, but the programs that can do this are harder to develop as they require use of natural language generation technology, which itself is a growing field.\n\nWhile some work has been done in abstractive summarization (creating an abstract synopsis like that of a human), the majority of summarization systems are extractive (selecting a subset of sentences to place in a summary).\n\nMachine learning techniques from closely related fields such as information retrieval or text mining have been successfully adapted to help automatic summarization.\n\nApart from Fully Automated Summarizers (FAS), there are systems that aid users with the task of summarization (MAHS = Machine Aided Human Summarization), for example by highlighting candidate passages to be included in the summary, and there are systems that depend on post-processing by a human (HAMS = Human Aided Machine Summarization).\n\nThere are broadly two types of extractive summarization tasks depending on what the summarization program focuses on. The first is \"generic summarization\", which focuses on obtaining a generic summary or abstract of the collection (whether documents, or sets of images, or videos, news stories etc.). The second is \"query relevant summarization\", sometimes called \"query-based summarization\", which summarizes objects specific to a query. Summarization systems are able to create both query relevant text summaries and generic machine-generated summaries depending on what the user needs.\n\nAn example of a summarization problem is document summarization, which attempts to automatically produce an abstract from a given document. Sometimes one might be interested in generating a summary from a single source document, while others can use multiple source documents (for example, a cluster of articles on the same topic). This problem is called multi-document summarization. A related application is summarizing news articles. Imagine a system, which automatically pulls together news articles on a given topic (from the web), and concisely represents the latest news as a summary.\n\nImage collection summarization is another application example of automatic summarization. It consists in selecting a representative set of images from a larger set of images. A summary in this context is useful to show the most representative images of results in an image collection exploration system. Video summarization is a related domain, where the system automatically creates a trailer of a long video. This also has applications in consumer or personal videos, where one might want to skip the boring or repetitive actions. Similarly, in surveillance videos, one would want to extract important and suspicious activity, while ignoring all the boring and redundant frames captured.\n\nAt a very high level, summarization algorithms try to find subsets of objects (like set of sentences, or a set of images), which cover information of the entire set. This is also called the \"core-set\". These algorithms model notions like diversity, coverage, information and representativeness of the summary. Query based summarization techniques, additionally model for relevance of the summary with the query. Some techniques and algorithms which naturally model summarization problems are TextRank and PageRank, Submodular set function, Determinantal point process, maximal marginal relevance (MMR) etc.\n\nThe task is the following. You are given a piece of text, such as a journal article, and you must produce a list of keywords or key[phrase]s that capture the primary topics discussed in the text. In the case of research articles, many authors provide manually assigned keywords, but most text lacks pre-existing keyphrases. For example, news articles rarely have keyphrases attached, but it would be useful to be able to automatically do so for a number of applications discussed below.\nConsider the example text from a news article:\n\nA keyphrase extractor might select \"Army Corps of Engineers\", \"President Bush\", \"New Orleans\", and \"defective flood-control pumps\" as keyphrases. These are pulled directly from the text. In contrast, an abstractive keyphrase system would somehow internalize the content and generate keyphrases that do not appear in the text, but more closely resemble what a human might produce, such as \"political negligence\" or \"inadequate protection from floods\". Abstraction requires a deep understanding of the text, which makes it difficult for a computer system.\nKeyphrases have many applications. They can enable document browsing by providing a short summary, improve information retrieval (if documents have keyphrases assigned, a user could search by keyphrase to produce more reliable hits than a full-text search), and be employed in generating index entries for a large text corpus.\n\nDepending on the different literature and the definition of key terms, words or phrases, keyword extraction is a highly related theme.\n\nBeginning with the work of Turney, many researchers have approached keyphrase extraction as a supervised machine learning problem.\nGiven a document, we construct an example for each unigram, bigram, and trigram found in the text (though other text units are also possible, as discussed below). We then compute various features describing each example (e.g., does the phrase begin with an upper-case letter?). We assume there are known keyphrases available for a set of training documents. Using the known keyphrases, we can assign positive or negative labels to the examples. Then we learn a classifier that can discriminate between positive and negative examples as a function of the features. Some classifiers make a binary classification for a test example, while others assign a probability of being a keyphrase. For instance, in the above text, we might learn a rule that says phrases with initial capital letters are likely to be keyphrases.\nAfter training a learner, we can select keyphrases for test documents in the following manner. We apply the same example-generation strategy to the test documents, then run each example through the learner. We can determine the keyphrases by looking at binary classification decisions or probabilities returned from our learned model. If probabilities are given, a threshold is used to select the keyphrases.\nKeyphrase extractors are generally evaluated using precision and recall. Precision measures how\nmany of the proposed keyphrases are actually correct. Recall measures how many of the true\nkeyphrases your system proposed. The two measures can be combined in an F-score, which is the\nharmonic mean of the two (\"F\" = 2\"PR\"/(\"P\" + \"R\") ). Matches between the proposed keyphrases and the known keyphrases can be checked after stemming or applying some other text normalization.\n\nDesigning a supervised keyphrase extraction system involves deciding on several choices (some of these apply to unsupervised, too). The first choice is exactly how to generate examples. Turney and others have used all possible unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams without intervening punctuation and after removing stopwords. Hulth showed that you can get some improvement by selecting examples to be sequences of tokens that match certain patterns of part-of-speech tags. Ideally, the mechanism for generating examples produces all the known labeled keyphrases as candidates, though this is often not the case. For example, if we use only unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams, then we will never be able to extract a known keyphrase containing four words. Thus, recall may suffer. However, generating too many examples can also lead to low precision.\n\nWe also need to create features that describe the examples and are informative enough to allow a learning algorithm to discriminate keyphrases from non- keyphrases. Typically features involve various term frequencies (how many times a phrase appears in the current text or in a larger corpus), the length of the example, relative position of the first occurrence, various boolean syntactic features (e.g., contains all caps), etc. The Turney paper used about 12 such features. Hulth uses a reduced set of features, which were found most successful in the KEA (Keyphrase Extraction Algorithm) work derived from Turney’s seminal paper.\n\nIn the end, the system will need to return a list of keyphrases for a test document, so we need to have a way to limit the number. Ensemble methods (i.e., using votes from several classifiers) have been used to produce numeric scores that can be thresholded to provide a user-provided number of keyphrases. This is the technique used by Turney with C4.5 decision trees. Hulth used a single binary classifier so the learning algorithm implicitly determines the appropriate number.\n\nOnce examples and features are created, we need a way to learn to predict keyphrases. Virtually any supervised learning algorithm could be used, such as decision trees, Naive Bayes, and rule induction. In the case of Turney's GenEx algorithm, a genetic algorithm is used to learn parameters for a domain-specific keyphrase extraction algorithm. The extractor follows a series of heuristics to identify keyphrases. The genetic algorithm optimizes parameters for these heuristics with respect to performance on training documents with known key phrases.\n\nAnother keyphrase extraction algorithm is TextRank. While supervised methods have some nice properties, like being able to produce interpretable rules for what features characterize a keyphrase, they also require a large amount of training data. Many documents with known keyphrases are needed. Furthermore, training on a specific domain tends to customize the extraction process to that domain, so the resulting classifier is not necessarily portable, as some of Turney's results demonstrate.\nUnsupervised keyphrase extraction removes the need for training data. It approaches the problem from a different angle. Instead of trying to learn explicit features that characterize keyphrases, the TextRank algorithm exploits the structure of the text itself to determine keyphrases that appear \"central\" to the text in the same way that PageRank selects important Web pages. Recall this is based on the notion of \"prestige\" or \"recommendation\" from social networks. In this way, TextRank does not rely on any previous training data at all, but rather can be run on any arbitrary piece of text, and it can produce output simply based on the text's intrinsic properties. Thus the algorithm is easily portable to new domains and languages.\n\nTextRank is a general purpose graph-based ranking algorithm for NLP. Essentially, it runs PageRank on a graph specially designed for a particular NLP task. For keyphrase extraction, it builds a graph using some set of text units as vertices. Edges are based on some measure of semantic or lexical similarity between the text unit vertices. Unlike PageRank, the edges are typically undirected and can be weighted to reflect a degree of similarity. Once the graph is constructed, it is used to form a stochastic matrix, combined with a damping factor (as in the \"random surfer model\"), and the ranking over vertices is obtained by finding the eigenvector corresponding to eigenvalue 1 (i.e., the stationary distribution of the random walk on the graph).\n\nThe vertices should correspond to what we want to rank. Potentially, we could do something similar to the supervised methods and create a vertex for each unigram, bigram, trigram, etc. However, to keep the graph small, the authors decide to rank individual unigrams in a first step, and then include a second step that merges highly ranked adjacent unigrams to form multi-word phrases. This has a nice side effect of allowing us to produce keyphrases of arbitrary length. For example, if we rank unigrams and find that \"advanced\", \"natural\", \"language\", and \"processing\" all get high ranks, then we would look at the original text and see that these words appear consecutively and create a final keyphrase using all four together. Note that the unigrams placed in the graph can be filtered by part of speech. The authors found that adjectives and nouns were the best to include. Thus, some linguistic knowledge comes into play in this step.\n\nEdges are created based on word co-occurrence in this application of TextRank. Two vertices are connected by an edge if the unigrams appear within a window of size N in the original text. N is typically around 2–10. Thus, \"natural\" and \"language\" might be linked in a text about NLP. \"Natural\" and \"processing\" would also be linked because they would both appear in the same string of N words. These edges build on the notion of \"text cohesion\" and the idea that words that appear near each other are likely related in a meaningful way and \"recommend\" each other to the reader.\n\nSince this method simply ranks the individual vertices, we need a way to threshold or produce a limited number of keyphrases. The technique chosen is to set a count T to be a user-specified fraction of the total number of vertices in the graph. Then the top T vertices/unigrams are selected based on their stationary probabilities. A post- processing step is then applied to merge adjacent instances of these T unigrams. As a result, potentially more or less than T final keyphrases will be produced, but the number should be roughly proportional to the length of the original text.\n\nIt is not initially clear why applying PageRank to a co-occurrence graph would produce useful keyphrases. One way to think about it is the following. A word that appears multiple times throughout a text may have many different co-occurring neighbors. For example, in a text about machine learning, the unigram \"learning\" might co-occur with \"machine\", \"supervised\", \"un-supervised\", and \"semi-supervised\" in four different sentences. Thus, the \"learning\" vertex would be a central \"hub\" that connects to these other modifying words. Running PageRank/TextRank on the graph is likely to rank \"learning\" highly. Similarly, if the text contains the phrase \"supervised classification\", then there would be an edge between \"supervised\" and \"classification\". If \"classification\" appears several other places and thus has many neighbors, its importance would contribute to the importance of \"supervised\". If it ends up with a high rank, it will be selected as one of the top T unigrams, along with \"learning\" and probably \"classification\". In the final post-processing step, we would then end up with keyphrases \"supervised learning\" and \"supervised classification\".\n\nIn short, the co-occurrence graph will contain densely connected regions for terms that appear often and in different contexts. A random walk on this graph will have a stationary distribution that assigns large probabilities to the terms in the centers of the clusters. This is similar to densely connected Web pages getting ranked highly by PageRank. This approach has also been used in document summarization, considered below.\n\nLike keyphrase extraction, document summarization aims to identify the essence of a text. The only real difference is that now we are dealing with larger text units—whole sentences instead of words and phrases.\n\nBefore getting into the details of some summarization methods, we will mention how summarization systems are typically evaluated. The most common way is using the so-called ROUGE (Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation) measure. This is a recall-based measure that determines how well a system-generated summary covers the content present in one or more human-generated model summaries known as references. It is recall-based to encourage systems to include all the important topics in the text. Recall can be computed with respect to unigram, bigram, trigram, or 4-gram matching. For example, ROUGE-1 is computed as division of count of unigrams in reference that appear in system and count of unigrams in reference summary.\n\nIf there are multiple references, the ROUGE-1 scores are averaged. Because ROUGE is based only on content overlap, it can determine if the same general concepts are discussed between an automatic summary and a reference summary, but it cannot determine if the result is coherent or the sentences flow together in a sensible manner. High-order n-gram ROUGE measures try to judge fluency to some degree.\nNote that ROUGE is similar to the BLEU measure for machine translation, but BLEU is precision- based, because translation systems favor accuracy.\n\nA promising line in document summarization is adaptive document/text summarization. The idea of adaptive summarization involves preliminary recognition of document/text genre and subsequent application of summarization algorithms optimized for this genre. First summarizes that perform adaptive summarization have been created.\n\nSupervised text summarization is very much like supervised keyphrase extraction. Basically, if you have a collection of documents and human-generated summaries for them, you can learn features of sentences that make them good candidates for inclusion in the summary. Features might include the position in the document (i.e., the first few sentences are probably important), the number of words in the sentence, etc. The main difficulty in supervised extractive summarization is that the known summaries must be manually created by extracting sentences so the sentences in an original training document can be labeled as \"in summary\" or \"not in summary\". This is not typically how people create summaries, so simply using journal abstracts or existing summaries is usually not sufficient. The sentences in these summaries do not necessarily match up with sentences in the original text, so it would be difficult to assign labels to examples for training. Note, however, that these natural summaries can still be used for evaluation purposes, since ROUGE-1 only cares about unigrams.\n\nDuring the DUC 2001 and 2002 evaluation workshops, TNO developed a sentence extraction system for multi-document summarization in the news domain. The system was based on a hybrid system using a naive Bayes classifier and statistical language models for modeling salience. Although the system exhibited good results, the researchers wanted to explore the effectiveness of a maximum entropy (ME) classifier for the meeting summarization task, as ME is known to be robust against feature dependencies. Maximum entropy has also been applied successfully for summarization in the broadcast news domain.\n\nThe unsupervised approach to summarization is also quite similar in spirit to unsupervised keyphrase extraction and gets around the issue of costly training data. Some unsupervised summarization approaches are based on finding a \"centroid\" sentence, which is the mean word vector of all the sentences in the document. Then the sentences can be ranked with regard to their similarity to this centroid sentence.\n\nA more principled way to estimate sentence importance is using random walks and eigenvector centrality. LexRank is an algorithm essentially identical to TextRank, and both use this approach for document summarization. The two methods were developed by different groups at the same time, and LexRank simply focused on summarization, but could just as easily be used for keyphrase extraction or any other NLP ranking task.\n\nIn both LexRank and TextRank, a graph is constructed by creating a vertex for each sentence in the document.\n\nThe edges between sentences are based on some form of semantic similarity or content overlap. While LexRank uses cosine similarity of TF-IDF vectors, TextRank uses a very similar measure based on the number of words two sentences have in common (normalized by the sentences' lengths). The LexRank paper explored using unweighted edges after applying a threshold to the cosine values, but also experimented with using edges with weights equal to the similarity score. TextRank uses continuous similarity scores as weights.\n\nIn both algorithms, the sentences are ranked by applying PageRank to the resulting graph. A summary is formed by combining the top ranking sentences, using a threshold or length cutoff to limit the size of the summary.\n\nIt is worth noting that TextRank was applied to summarization exactly as described here, while LexRank was used as part of a larger summarization system (MEAD) that combines the LexRank score (stationary probability) with other features like sentence position and length using a linear combination with either user-specified or automatically tuned weights. In this case, some training documents might be needed, though the TextRank results show the additional features are not absolutely necessary.\n\nAnother important distinction is that TextRank was used for single document summarization, while LexRank has been applied to multi-document summarization. The task remains the same in both cases—only the number of sentences to choose from has grown. However, when summarizing multiple documents, there is a greater risk of selecting duplicate or highly redundant sentences to place in the same summary. Imagine you have a cluster of news articles on a particular event, and you want to produce one summary. Each article is likely to have many similar sentences, and you would only want to include distinct ideas in the summary. To address this issue, LexRank applies a heuristic post-processing step that builds up a summary by adding sentences in rank order, but discards any sentences that are too similar to ones already placed in the summary. The method used is called Cross-Sentence Information Subsumption (CSIS).\n\nThese methods work based on the idea that sentences \"recommend\" other similar sentences to the reader. Thus, if one sentence is very similar to many others, it will likely be a sentence of great importance. The importance of this sentence also stems from the importance of the sentences \"recommending\" it. Thus, to get ranked highly and placed in a summary, a sentence must be similar to many sentences that are in turn also similar to many other sentences. This makes intuitive sense and allows the algorithms to be applied to any arbitrary new text. The methods are domain-independent and easily portable. One could imagine the features indicating important sentences in the news domain might vary considerably from the biomedical domain. However, the unsupervised \"recommendation\"-based approach applies to any domain.\n\nMulti-document summarization is an automatic procedure aimed at extraction of information from multiple texts written about the same topic. Resulting summary report allows individual users, such as professional information consumers, to quickly familiarize themselves with information contained in a large cluster of documents. In such a way, multi-document summarization systems are complementing the news aggregators performing the next step down the road of coping with information overload. Multi-document summarization may also be done in response to a question.\n\nMulti-document summarization creates information reports that are both concise and comprehensive. With different opinions being put together and outlined, every topic is described from multiple perspectives within a single document. While the goal of a brief summary is to simplify information search and cut the time by pointing to the most relevant source documents, comprehensive multi-document summary should itself contain the required information, hence limiting the need for accessing original files to cases when refinement is required.\nAutomatic summaries present information extracted from multiple sources algorithmically, without any editorial touch or subjective human intervention, thus making it completely unbiased. \n\nMulti-document extractive summarization faces a problem of potential redundancy. Ideally, we would like to extract sentences that are both \"central\" (i.e., contain the main ideas) and \"diverse\" (i.e., they differ from one another). LexRank deals with diversity as a heuristic final stage using CSIS, and other systems have used similar methods, such as Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR), in trying to eliminate redundancy in information retrieval results. There is a general purpose graph-based ranking algorithm like Page/Lex/TextRank that handles both \"centrality\" and \"diversity\" in a unified mathematical framework based on absorbing Markov chain random walks. (An absorbing random walk is like a standard random walk, except some states are now absorbing states that act as \"black holes\" that cause the walk to end abruptly at that state.) The algorithm is called GRASSHOPPER. In addition to explicitly promoting diversity during the ranking process, GRASSHOPPER incorporates a prior ranking (based on sentence position in the case of summarization).\n\nThe state of the art results for multi-document summarization, however, are obtained using mixtures of submodular functions. These methods have achieved the state of the art results for Document Summarization Corpora, DUC 04 - 07. Similar results were also achieved with the use of determinantal point processes (which are a special case of submodular functions) for DUC-04.\n\nA new method for multi-lingual multi-document summarization that avoids redundancy works by simplifying and generating ideograms that represent the meaning of each sentence in each document and then evaluates similarity \"qualitatively\" by comparing the shape and position of said ideograms has recently been developed. This tool does not use word frequency, does not need training or preprocessing of any kind and works by generating ideograms that represent the meaning of each sentence and then summarizes using two user-supplied parameters: equivalence (when are two sentences to be considered equivalent) and relevance (how long is the desired summary). The Simplish Simplifying & Summarizing tool - performs just such an automatic multi-lingual multi-document summarization.\n\nThe idea of a submodular set function has recently emerged as a powerful modeling tool for various summarization problems. Submodular functions naturally model notions of \"coverage\", \"information\", \"representation\" and \"diversity\". Moreover, several important combinatorial optimization problems occur as special instances of submodular optimization. For example, the set cover problem is a special case of submodular optimization, since the set cover function is submodular. The set cover function attempts to find a subset of objects which \"cover\" a given set of concepts. For example, in document summarization, one would like the summary to cover all important and relevant concepts in the document. This is an instance of set cover. Similarly, the facility location problem is a special case of submodular functions. The Facility Location function also naturally models coverage and diversity. Another example of a submodular optimization problem is using a determinantal point process to model diversity. Similarly, the Maximum-Marginal-Relevance procedure can also be seen as an instance of submodular optimization. All these important models encouraging coverage, diversity and information are all submodular. Moreover, submodular functions can be efficiently combined together, and the resulting function is still submodular. Hence, one could combine one submodular function which models diversity, another one which models coverage and use human supervision to learn a right model of a submodular function for the problem.\n\nWhile submodular functions are fitting problems for summarization, they also admit very efficient algorithms for optimization. For example, a simple greedy algorithm admits a constant factor guarantee. Moreover, the greedy algorithm is extremely simple to implement and can scale to large datasets, which is very important for summarization problems.\n\nSubmodular functions have achieved state-of-the-art for almost all summarization problems. For example, work by Lin and Bilmes, 2012 shows that submodular functions achieve the best results to date on DUC-04, DUC-05, DUC-06 and DUC-07 systems for document summarization. Similarly, work by Lin and Bilmes, 2011, shows that many existing systems for automatic summarization are instances of submodular functions. This was a breakthrough result establishing submodular functions as the right models for summarization problems.\n\nSubmodular Functions have also been used for other summarization tasks. Tschiatschek et al., 2014 show that mixtures of submodular functions achieve state-of-the-art results for image collection summarization. Similarly, Bairi et al., 2015 show the utility of submodular functions for summarizing multi-document topic hierarchies. Submodular Functions have also successfully been used for summarizing machine learning datasets.\n\nSpecific applications of automatic summarization include:\n\nThe most common way to evaluate the informativeness of automatic summaries is to compare them with human-made model summaries.\n\nEvaluation techniques fall into intrinsic and extrinsic, inter-textual and intra-textual.\n\nAn intrinsic evaluation tests the summarization system in and of itself while an extrinsic evaluation tests the summarization based on how it affects the completion of some other task. Intrinsic evaluations have\nassessed mainly the coherence and informativeness of summaries. Extrinsic evaluations, on the other hand, have tested the impact of summarization on tasks like relevance assessment, reading comprehension, etc.\n\nIntra-textual methods assess the output of a specific summarization system, and the inter-textual ones focus on contrastive analysis of outputs of several summarization systems.\n\nHuman judgement often has wide variance on what is considered a \"good\" summary, which means that making the evaluation process automatic is particularly difficult. Manual evaluation can be used, but this is both time and labor-intensive as it requires humans to read not only the summaries but also the source documents. Other issues are those concerning coherence and coverage.\n\nOne of the metrics used in NIST's annual Document Understanding Conferences, in which research groups submit their systems for both summarization and translation tasks, is the ROUGE metric (Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation ). It essentially calculates n-gram overlaps between automatically generated summaries and previously-written human summaries. A high level of overlap should indicate a high level of shared concepts between the two summaries. Note that overlap metrics like this are unable to provide any feedback on a summary's coherence. Anaphor resolution remains another problem yet to be fully solved. Similarly, for image summarization, Tschiatschek et al., developed a Visual-ROUGE score which judges the performance of algorithms for image summarization.\n\nDomain independent summarization techniques generally apply sets of general features which can be used to identify information-rich text segments. Recent research focus has drifted to domain-specific summarization techniques that utilize the available knowledge specific to the domain of text. For example, automatic summarization research on medical text generally attempts to utilize the various sources of codified medical knowledge and ontologies.\n\nThe main drawback of the evaluation systems existing so far is that we need at least one reference summary, and for some methods more than one, to be able to compare automatic summaries with models. This is a hard and expensive task. Much effort has to be done in order to have corpus of texts and their corresponding summaries. Furthermore, for some methods, not only do we need to have human-made summaries available for comparison, but also manual annotation has to be performed in some of them (e.g. SCU in the Pyramid Method). In any case, what the evaluation methods need as an input, is a set of summaries to serve as gold standards and a set of automatic summaries. Moreover, they all perform a quantitative evaluation with regard to different similarity metrics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21998310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21998310", "title": "Barito languages", "text": "Barito languages\n\nThe Barito languages are around twenty Dayak (Austronesian) languages of Borneo, Southern Philippines, plus Malagasy, the national language of Madagascar. They are named after the Barito River. \n\nThe Barito family is thought by some to be a \"Sprachbund\" joining three groups – \"East Barito\", \"West Barito\", and \"Mahakam (Barito–Mahakam)\" – rather than a genuine clade. For example, Adelaar (2005) rejects Barito as a valid group despite accepting less traditional groups such as North Bornean and Malayo-Sumbawan.\n\nBlust (2006) proposes that the Sama-Bajaw languages also derive from the Barito lexical region, though not from any established group, and \"Ethnologue\" has followed, calling the resulting group 'Greater Barito'.\n\nSmith (2017) proposes a Greater Barito linkage with the following branches, and considers Basap to be a sister of the Greater Barito linkage, forming a \"Basap–Greater Barito\" group.\n"}
{"id": "31848702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31848702", "title": "Bible translations into Inupiat", "text": "Bible translations into Inupiat\n\nThe complete Bible has been translated into three of the dialects of Inupiat language (Greenland, Labrador and Inuktitut (East Arctic)), the New Testament in two more and portions in another.\n\nThe Ethnologue lists five major Inuit dialects: Eastern Canadian, Western Canadian, North Alaskan, Northwest Alaskan and Greenlandic. Each of these dialects have at least a New Testament translated. Even though Inuit language is very spread out it is rather arbitrary to decide where to draw the lines of dialects. Labrador and East Arctic/Baffin Inuit are both the same dialect according to Ethnologue, but both have their own translation of the Bible in their own orthographies.\n\nThe Norwegian missionaries, Hans and Paul Egede, were the first to translate any part of the Bible into the Inuit language. Their version of the New Testament in the Greenlandic was printed in part in 1744, and as a whole in 1766.\n\nA second translation by Otto Fabricius, was published in 1794 and in 1799. Niels Giessing Wolf's revision of Fabricus' translation was published in 1827 in Kopenhagen.\n\nA third translation was translated by Johan Kleinschmidt in 1822, this ran through several editions. H.F. Jorgensen's revised edition Kleinschmidt's translation was published in 1893.\n\nNearly three-quarters of the Old Testament was printed in the same language from 1822. It took 150 years to complete the whole Bible, but it was eventually done (prior to 1902).\n\nThe Danish Bible Society translated the whole Bible into a modern Greenlandic dialect, which was completed in 1999.\n\nBenjamin Kohlmeister's harmony of the gospels was published in 1810 in London by W. McDowall. Kohlmeister also translated the entire gospel of John (mostly extracted from the harmony) and this was published later in 1810, also by W. McDowall, at the expense of the British and Foreign Bible Society. 1000 copies were published. This was very well received and Kohlmeister's translation of the other three gospels was published in 1813. C.F. Burghardt may have been involved in the 1813 publication.\n\nA version of the Acts and Epistles prepared by the labour of the Moravian missionaries was published by the Society in 1819 and in 1826 a complete edition of the New Testament left the Society's press in London. In 1839 a revised edition of the Acts Epistles and book of Revelation was completed.\n\nPsalms was published in 1826 and again in 1830, and Genesis in 1834. The complete New Testament was published again in 1840, followed by the Pentateuch which was published in London in 1847, Proverbs and the prophetical books were published in 1849. The whole Old Testament was published before 1867.\n\nA version of the gospels and Acts was printed in Stolpen by Gustav Winterib for the British and Foreign Bible Society in 1876.\n\nEven though the whole Bible had been translated by 1867, it had never been published as a whole book. The Moravian Church in Newfoundland & Labrador and the Canadian Bible Society partnered together to revise the whole Bible in the Labrador dialect, and to publish it as one volume. It was officially launched on January 20, 2009.\n\nRoy Amaogak, together with Donald & Thelma Webster of Wycliffe Bible Translators translated the New Testament into the North Slope dialect of Inupiaq. It was published in 1967 by the American Bible Society. It was reprinted in 1992 as \"Uqalugiksuat\". Translation of the Old Testament continues with a team of translators in Utqiaġvik. So far they have at least translated Jonah, Ruth, and Obadaiah.\n\nWilfried Zibell's translation of selected parts of the New Testament, \"Agaayutim Ukałhi\" was published in 1971. Wolf and Hildegard Seiler also of Wycliffe Bible Translators finished it, and the complete New Testament was published in 1997 by the International Bible Society as \"Ipqitchuat Makpiġaat\".\n\nH. Girling translated the gospel of Mark into the Mackenzie dialect and had it published with interlinear readings and instructions for Inuinaktun speakers. This was published in 1920 by the BFBS. The note in the front of it read: \"adapted to the use of the \"Copper\" Eskimo of Coronation Gulf by means of interlinear renderings printed in smaller type. These Eskimo should read the lower line of the alternative renderings, and, in addition, always pronounce the letter s as h, and change the final t of all plural nouns or verbs to n; e.g., in verse 1 of chapter i. 'tussanaktut' should be read as 'tussanaktun\". Even with all his trouble, however, this gospel wasn't accepted by speakers of Inuinaktun.\n\nThe Four gospels and Acts has been translated and published as \"Godim Ukauhiit Gospelit Hitamanguyun Apostlit Havaangillu\" in 1972 by the Canadian Bible Society. Ruth has also been translated and published. Ruth was published in 1979. The New Testament was published in 1983. John R. Sperry was involved in this translation.\n\nAnglican missionary Edmund James Peck, who was a major influence pushing for Inuit to use syllabics, transcribed extracts of New Testament which was published in 1878 followed by the four gospels in 1897. This was almost identical in the 1878 Labrador translation, the main, and perhaps only difference being in the orthography\n\nThe New Testament was published in 1912 by the British and Foreign Bible Society. Psalms was published in 1917.\n\nThe Canadian Bible Society and Anglican Church sponsored a project to translate the Bible into modern the East Arctic Inuktitut dialect.\n\nModern Bible translation into the Eastern Arctic dialect began in 1978 with a translation workshop conducted by Dr. Eugene Nida of the United Bible Societies. The work was sponsored jointly by the United Bible Societies and the Anglican Diocese of the Arctic. The translation work was done by a team of Inuit Anglican ministers ( Benjamin Arreak (team leader), Joshua Arreak, Jonas Allooloo, and Andrew Atagotaaluk) trained and supervised by consultants from the UBS and later the Canadian Bible Society under the leadership of the Director of Scripture Translation, Dr. Harold Fehderau. Dr. Fehderau continued the work of training the translators and consulting on the project to ensure the accuracy of the translation until his death in 1997. Their New Testament was published in 1992 (4,000 copies). Psalms, and Ruth were published first. The complete Bible was published by the Canadian Bible Society in 2012 and inaugurated in Iqaluit, Nunavut on June 3, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "36781991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36781991", "title": "Bijan Abdolkarimi", "text": "Bijan Abdolkarimi\n\nBijan Abdolkarimi (born 1963 in Tehran) () is an Iranian philosopher, thinker, translator and editor. \nHe is associate professor of philosophy at Islamic Azad University North Tehran Branch. \nHis main interests are ontology, political philosophy and the critique of religious and intellectual traditions. He claims to challenge the dominant ideological discourse in Iran. \nHe has participated in debates at Iranian universities and also in IRIB TV4 in which he has opposed the notion of Islamic humanities. \nHe is also a scholar of Heidegger's thought and philosophy.\n\nThe main characteristics of Abdolkarimi's thought may be summarized as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327785", "title": "Broadcast syndication", "text": "Broadcast syndication\n\nBroadcasting syndication is the license to broadcast television programs and radio programs by multiple television stations and radio stations, without going through a broadcast network. It is common in the United States where broadcast programming is scheduled by television networks with local independent affiliates. Syndication is less of a practice in the rest of the world, as most countries have centralized networks or television stations without local affiliates; although less common, shows can be syndicated internationally. The three main types of syndication are \"first-run syndication\", which is programming that is broadcast for the first time as a syndicated show and is made specifically to sell directly into syndication; \"off-network syndication\", which is the licensing of a program that was originally run on network TV or in some cases, first-run syndication (colloquially called a \"rerun\"); and \"public broadcasting syndication\".\n\n\nWhen syndicating a show, the production company, or a distribution company called a syndicator, attempts to license the show to one station in each media market or area, or to a commonly owned station group, within the country and internationally. If successful, this can be lucrative, but the syndicator may only be able to license the show in a small percentage of the markets. Syndication differs from licensing the show to a television network. Once a network picks up a show, it is usually guaranteed to run on most or all the network's affiliates on the same day of the week and at the same time (in a given time zone, in countries where this is a concern). Some production companies create their shows and license them to networks at a loss, at least at first, hoping that the series will succeed and that eventual off-network syndication will turn a profit for the show. A syndicated program is licensed to stations for \"cash\" (the stations purchase the rights to insert some or all of the advertisements at their level); given to stations for access to airtime (wherein the syndicators get the advertising revenue); or the combination of both. The trade of program for airtime is called \"barter.\"\n\nIn the United States (as a result of continued relaxation of station ownership regulations since the 1970s), syndicated programs are usually licensed to stations on a group level, with multiple stations owned and/or operated by the same broadcasting group carrying the program in different markets (except in areas where another station holds the market rights to the program) – making it increasingly more efficient for syndicators to gain widespread national clearances for their programs. Many syndicated programs are traditionally sold first to one of five \"key\" station groups (ABC Owned Television Stations, NBC Owned Television Stations, CBS Television Stations, Fox Television Stations and Tribune Broadcasting), allowing their programs to gain clearances in the largest U.S. TV markets (such as New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago and Philadelphia, where all five aforementioned groups each own stations), before striking deals with other major and smaller station owners. Shows airing in first-run syndication that are carried primarily by an owned-and-operated station of a network may sometimes be incorrectly referenced as a network program, regardless to its distribution to stations of varying network affiliations and despite the fact it is not part of an individual network's base schedule.\n\nSince the early 2000s, some programs being proposed for national distribution in first-run syndication have been test marketed on a selected number of or all stations owned by certain major station group, allowing the distributor to determine whether a national roll-out is feasible based on the ratings accrued in the selected markets where the program is being aired.\n\nWhile market penetration can vary widely and revenues can be unreliable, the producers often enjoy more content freedom in the absence of network's standards and practices departments; frequently, some innovative ideas are explored by first-run syndicated programming which the networks are leery of giving airtime to. Meanwhile, top-rated syndicated shows in the United States usually have a domestic market reach as high as 98%. Very often, series' that are aired in syndication have reduced running times. For example, a standard American sitcom runs 22 minutes, but in syndication it may be reduced to 20 minutes to make room for more commercials.\n\nSyndication can take the form of either weekly or daily syndication. Game shows, some \"tabloid\" and entertainment news shows, and talk shows are broadcast daily on weekdays, while most other first-run syndicated shows are broadcast on a weekly basis and are usually aired on weekends only. Big discussion occurred in the 1990s and 2000s about whether previously aired episodes of a show could become syndicated while new episodes of it continued to air on its original network. There had been much opposition to this idea and it was generally viewed to lead to the death of the show. However, licensing a program for syndication actually resulted in the increased popularity for shows that remained in production. A prime example is \"Law & Order\".\n\nAs with radio in the U.S., television networks, particularly in their early years, did not offer a full day's worth of programming for their affiliates, even in the evening or \"prime time\" hours. In the early days of television, this was less of an issue, as there were in most markets fewer TV stations than there were networks (at the time four), which meant that the stations that did exist affiliated with multiple networks and, when not airing network or local programs, typically signed off. The loosening of licensing restrictions, and the subsequent passage of the All-Channel Receiver Act, meant that by the early 1960s, the situation had reversed. There were now more stations than the networks, now down to three after the failure of the DuMont Television Network, could serve. Some stations were not affiliated with any network, operating as independent stations. Both groups sought to supplement their locally produced programming with content that could be flexibly scheduled. The development of videotape and, much later, enhanced satellite downlink access furthered these options. While most past first-run syndicated shows were shown only in syndication, some canceled network shows continued to be produced for first-run syndication or were revived for syndication several years after their original cancellation. Until about 1980, most syndicated series were distributed to stations either on 16mm film prints (off-network reruns, feature films, and cartoons) or videotape (topical series such as the talk shows of Mike Douglas and Merv Griffin, and variety and quiz shows.)\n\nZiv Television Programs, Inc., after establishing itself as a major radio syndicator, was the first major first-run television syndicator, creating several long-lived series in the 1950s and selling them directly to regional sponsors, who in turn sold the shows to local stations. Ziv's first major TV hit was \"The Cisco Kid\". Ziv had the foresight to film the Cisco Kid series in color, even though color TV was still in its infancy and most stations did not yet support the technology. Among the most widely seen Ziv offerings were \"Sea Hunt\", \"I Led Three Lives\", \"Highway Patrol\" and Ripcord. Some first-run syndicated series were picked up by networks in the 1950s and early 1960s, such as the \"Adventures of Superman\" and \"Mr. Ed\". The networks began syndicating their reruns in the late 1950s, and first-run syndication shrank sharply, for a decade. Some stalwart series continued, including \"Death Valley Days\"; other ambitious projects were also to flourish, however briefly, such as \"The Play of the Week\" (1959–1961), produced by David Susskind (of the syndicated talk show \"Open End\" and also producer of such network fare as \"NYPD\").\n\nAmong other syndicated series of the 1950s were MCA's \"The Abbott and Costello Show\" (vaudeville-style comedy) and Guild Films' \"Liberace\" (musical variety) and \"Life With Elizabeth\", a domestic situation comedy that introduced Betty White to a national audience. In addition to the \"Adventures of Superman\", many other series were based on comic strips and aimed at the juvenile audience, including \"Flash Gordon\", \"Dick Tracy\", \"Sheena, Queen of the Jungle\", and \"Joe Palooka\". Original juvenile adventure series included \"Captain Gallant of the Foreign Legion\", \"Cowboy G-Men\", and \"Ramar of the Jungle\". Series based on literary properties included \"Sherlock Holmes\", \"Long John Silver\" (based on \"Treasure Island\"), and \"The Three Musketeers\". Several of these were co-productions between U.S. and European (usually British) companies. \"Crusader Rabbit\" pioneered in the area of first-run animated series; followed by \"Bucky and Pepito\", \"Colonel Bleep\", \"Spunky and Tadpole\", \"Q.T. Hush\", and others. (All of these were five-minute shorts designed to be placed within locally hosted kiddie shows.) Syndicated sports programming included \"Championship Bowling\" and \"All-Star Golf\", both produced by Chicago-based Walter Schwimmer, Inc.\n\nIn addition to regular series, syndicators also offered packages of feature films, cartoons, and short subjects originally made for movie theatres. Until late in the 1950s, however, much of the theatrical product available consisted of low-budget secondary features (mainly Westerns) with relatively few notable stars. One syndication company, National Telefilm Associates, attempted to create a \"film network\" of stations showing its lineup of first-run series, which included syndicated programs such as \"Police Call\" (1955), \"How to Marry a Millionaire\" (1957-1959), \"The Passerby\", \"Man Without a Gun\" (1957-1959), and \"This is Alice\" (1958). The venture lasted five years and closed down in 1961.\n\nBy the late 1960s, a \"de facto\" two-tiered system had developed in the United States, with the major network affiliates (usually on longer-range VHF stations) consistently were drawing more viewers than their UHF, independent counterparts; syndicators thus hoped to get their programs onto the major network stations, where spots in the lineup were far more scarce. FCC rulings in 1971 curtailed the U.S. networks' ability to schedule programming in what has become known as the \"early fringe\", notably the 7–8 p.m. (Eastern and Pacific Time) hour of \"prime time\", with the stated hope that this might encourage more local programming of social and cultural relevance to communities (off-network syndicated repeats were also banned); some projects of this sort came to fruition, though usually relatively commercial and slick ones such as Group W's \"Evening Magazine/PM Magazine\" franchise, and such pre-existing national projects as the brief commercial-television run of William F. Buckley, Jr.'s interview/debate series \"Firing Line\". The more obvious result was an increase in Canadian-produced syndicated dramatic series, such as \"Dusty's Trail\" and the Colgate-sponsored \"Dr. Simon Locke\". Game shows, often evening editions of network afternoon series, flourished, and a few odd items such as \"Wild Kingdom\", canceled by NBC in 1971, had a continuing life as syndicated programming tailor-made for the early fringe.\n\nIn 1971, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission passed the Prime Time Access Rule and Financial Interest and Syndication Rules, which prevented networks from programming one particular hour of prime time programming on its television stations each night and required the networks to spin off their syndication arms as independent companies. Although the intent of the rule was to encourage local stations to produce their own programs for this time slot, budgetary limits instead prompted stations to buy syndicated programs to fill the slot. This, coupled with an increase in UHF independent stations, caused a boom in the syndication market. In the 1970s, first-run syndication continued to be an odd mix: cheaply produced, but not always poor quality, \"filler\" programming. These included the dance-music show \"Soul Train\", and 20th Century Fox's \"That's Hollywood\", a television variation on the popular \"That's Entertainment!\" theatrically released collections of film clips from the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer library.\n\nThere were also many imported programs distributed this way. These include the documentary series \"Wild, Wild World of Animals\" (repackaged by Time-Life with narration by William Conrad) and Thames Television's sober and necessarily grim \"The World at War\". \"The Starlost\" (1973) was a Canadian series, apparently modified from the vision of science fiction writers Harlan Ellison and Ben Bova. Britain's ITC Entertainment, headed by Lew Grade, made \"UFO\" (1970) and \"\" (1975). These two series were created by Gerry Anderson (and his associates), who was previously best known for Supermarionation (a combination of puppetry and animation) series such as \"Thunderbirds\". The most successful syndicated show in the United States in the 1970s was probably \"The Muppet Show\", also from Lew Grade's company. Animated series from the 1980s \"Dogtanian and the Three Muskehounds\" and \"Around the World with Willy Fog\" came from Spanish animation production company BRB Internacional and their Japanese co-producers Nippon Animation.\n\nGame shows thrived in syndication during the decade. Nightly versions of \"What's My Line?\", \"Truth or Consequences\", \"Beat the Clock\" and \"To Tell the Truth\" premiered in the late 1960s and found loyal audiences for many years. Several daytime network games began producing once-a-week nighttime versions for broadcast in the early evening hours, usually with bigger prizes and often featuring different hosts (emcees were limited to appearing on one network and one syndicated game simultaneously) and modified titles (\"Match Game PM\", \"The $100,000 Name That Tune\" or \"The $25,000 Pyramid\", for example). A few independent game shows, such as \"Sports Challenge\" and \"Celebrity Bowling\", also entered the syndication market around this time. Of these shows, \"Let's Make a Deal\" and \"Hollywood Squares\" were the first to jump to twice-a-week syndicated versions around 1973. Another popular daytime show to have a weekly syndicated version was \"The Price Is Right\", which began concurrently in weekly syndication and on CBS; the syndicated \"nighttime\" version was hosted by Dennis James for its first five years, after which daytime host Bob Barker took over for another three years of weekly episodes (even though, by this point, the daytime and nighttime shows had diverged noticeably). The nighttime version of \"Family Feud\" (1977) quickly jumped from once-weekly to twice, and finally to five-day-a-week airings, and its massive popularity, along with that of new five-day-a-week entries like Jack Barry's \"The Joker's Wild\" (1977) and \"Tic-Tac-Dough\" (1978) and Chuck Barris's increasingly raunchy remakes of his 1960s hits \"The Newlywed Game\" and \"The Dating Game\", brought an end (with rare exceptions) to the era of once-a-week games. Also popular in first-run syndication and daytime was \"The Gong Show\", hosted by Barris throughout most of its run (Gary Owens hosted the first syndicated season).\n\nA number of half-hour musical-variety shows were also offered in the early 1970s, generally built around personable middle-of-the-road singers like Bobby Vinton, Bobby Goldsboro, Dolly Parton, and Andy Williams, or groups like Sha Na Na, The Johnny Mann Singers, and The Golddiggers. \"Wait Till Your Father Gets Home\" (1972) was a Hanna-Barbera cartoon series attempting to ape the \"All in the Family\"-style sitcoms; \"Skippy the Bush Kangaroo\" (1969), an Australian children's series, or \"Gentle Ben\" (a decade later, the decidedly not-for-children Australian \"Prisoner: Cell Block H\" would have a brief U.S. syndicated run); and a Canadian sketch-comedy series began appearing on U.S. television stations in 1977—\"Second City Television\", which would eventually find a home, for two seasons, on NBC, as \"SCTV Network 90\" (and on premium cable channel Cinemax by 1983).\n\nThe Universal/Paramount-produced package of original programming, \"Operation Prime Time\", began appearing on \"ad hoc\" quasi-networks of (almost by necessity) non-network stations in the U.S. in 1978, with a mini-series adaptation of John Jakes's \"The Bastard\". From the later 1960s into the late 1970s, Westinghouse also found considerable success with \"The Mike Douglas Show\", a variety/talk show hosted by a singer with an easygoing interview style, which aired in the afternoons in most markets; similar programs soon followed featuring Merv Griffin, who had been the host of CBS' most sustained late-night answer to \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" previously, and another network veteran, Dinah Shore. Also notable was the growing success of audience-participation talk shows, particularly that of the innovator of the format, Phil Donahue.\n\nFirst-run syndication in the 1970s also made it possible for some shows that were no longer wanted by television networks to remain on the air. In 1971, ABC canceled \"The Lawrence Welk Show\", which went on to produce new episodes in syndication for another 11 years, and currently continues to much success in weekend reruns (with new segments featuring Welk cast members inserted within the episodes) distributed to PBS stations by the Oklahoma Educational Television Authority. Also in 1971, CBS dropped \"Lassie\" and \"Hee Haw\", the latter show's run ending as part of the network's cancellation of all of its rural-oriented shows (known then as \"rural purge\", which also resulted in the cancellations of \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" and \"Green Acres\"). \"Lassie\" entered first-run syndication for two years, while \"Hee Haw\" continued to produce new episodes until 1992.\n\nThroughout the mid-to-late 1980s into the early 1990s, sitcoms continued to enter first-run syndication after being canceled by the networks, the most successful of which were \"Mama's Family\" and \"Charles In Charge\". Other sitcoms during this time to enter first-run syndication after network cancellation included \"Silver Spoons\", \"Punky Brewster\", \"Webster\", \"It's a Living\", \"Too Close for Comfort\", \"9 to 5\", \"What's Happening!!\", and \"WKRP in Cincinnati\". Many of these sitcoms produced new shows in syndication mainly to have enough episodes for a profitable run in reruns. Other sitcoms, such as \"Small Wonder\", \"Out of This World\", \"The Munsters Today\", and \"Harry and the Hendersons\" (as well as more action-adventure oriented series like \"Superboy\" and \"My Secret Identity\") enjoyed success in syndication throughout their entire run.\n\nThe broadcast networks aired many action-adventure programs from the 1950s to the 1980s. By the late 1980s, however, increasing production costs made them less attractive to the networks. Studios found that reruns of one-hour dramas did not sell as well as sitcoms, so they were unable to fully recoup the shows' costs using the traditional deficit financing model. When NBC canceled the television series adaptation of \"Fame\" after only two seasons, the producers made special arrangements with LBS Communications, which resulted in MGM reviving the series for first-run syndication in the fall of 1983, where it continued for four more seasons, with the last first-run episode airing in the U.S. on May 18, 1987.\n\n\"\" debuted in 1987, and became the most-watched syndicated show throughout its seven-year run. Its great success caused many others to debut. \"\" (a horror series which shared its title with the successful movie franchise) also debuted in 1987. The next syndicated shows that debuted in 1988 were \"War of the Worlds\" and \"Freddy's Nightmares\". \"Baywatch\", which debuted in 1989 on NBC and was canceled after one season also became one of the most watched syndicated shows throughout its ten-year-run, garnering a worldwide audience.\n\nBy 1994, there were more than 20 one-hour syndicated shows. \"\" and \"Renegade\" were also syndicated. \"\" and its spin-off series \"\" were also popular, often tying Deep Space Nine at 5% to 6% of the Nielsen-monitored audience. \"Forever Knight\" drew devoted \"cult\" audiences (3% rating). \"Psi Factor\" and \"\" attempted to draw on the audience for the Fox series \"The X-Files\" (as did the short-lived spinoff \"Baywatch Nights\"). Among the other series were \"Relic Hunter\", \"VIP\", \"High Tide\", \"She Spies\" and \"Once a Thief\".\n\n\"Babylon 5\" began life in 1993 on the Prime Time Entertainment Network (PTEN), moved into syndicated distribution when its network was displaced by WB/UPN-affiliated stations, and eventually ended its final season on TNT (1998). In 1997 \"\", based on ideas from Gene Roddenberry, premiered in syndication. Three years later, a second Gene Roddenberry series, \"Andromeda\" also premiered in syndication. As emerging networks WB and UPN signed contracts with formerly-independent stations, and the syndication market shrunk, Andromeda season 5 moved to the Syfy Channel (2004).\n\nThere would not be a first-run syndicated drama (or a first-run scripted series in syndication) until 2008, when Disney-ABC Domestic Television and ABC Studios teamed up with Sam Raimi to launch a new first-run syndicated series, \"Legend of the Seeker\", based on Terry Goodkind's \"Sword of Truth\" novel series. Another gap in first-run scripted series in syndication followed for four years after \"Legend of the Seeker\" was canceled in 2009, until Trifecta Entertainment & Media (a company that mainly distributes programs for off-network syndication) began producing \"SAF3\" (pronounced \"safe\") in 2013.\n\nDuring the late 1970s and 1980s, independent stations signed on in mid-sized and many small markets. The market for made-for-television cartoons grew as a result to include a branch for such stations. It usually had a greater artistic freedom, and looser standards (not mandated by a network). The older Bugs Bunny and Popeye cartoons made way for first-run syndicated cartoons such as \"He-Man and the Masters of the Universe\", \"Inspector Gadget\", \"Heathcliff\", \"ThunderCats\", \"My Little Pony\", \"The Transformers\", \"\", \"Voltron\", \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\", and reruns of \"Scooby-Doo\", \"Garfield and Friends\", and \"The Pink Panther\", among many others.\n\nIn 1987, The Walt Disney Company tried its luck at syndication; \"DuckTales\" premiered that September and would eventually last for 100 episodes. The success of \"DuckTales\" paved the way for a second series two years later, \"Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers\". The following year, the two shows aired together under the umbrella block \"The Disney Afternoon\". In the fall of 1990, Disney added another hour to \"The Disney Afternoon\"; the block continued in syndication, running additional first-run animated series until 1999.\n\nThese cartoons initially competed with the ones that were nationally televised on the broadcast networks. In the 1980s, national broadcast networks only aired cartoons on Saturday mornings, not competing with the weekday and Sunday syndication blocks aired by local independent stations; however, by the 1990s, Fox and then The WB launched their own weekday afternoon children's program blocks. By the end of the 1990s, both syndication distributors and broadcast networks ended up losing most of their children's market to the rise of cable television channels aimed at that audience such as Nickelodeon and Cartoon Network, which provided appealing children's entertainment throughout the week at nearly all hours.\n\nSyndication remains a method of choice for distributing children's programming, although this has gradually shifted to only produce programs to satisfy the federally mandated \"educational-informational\" (E/I) rule imposed in the late 1990s as part of an amendment to the Children's Television Act of 1990 that requires stations to air three hours of educational children's programs every week, regardless of the station's format. Syndication is generally a less expensive option for a local station than to attempt to produce its own locally originated E/I programming; not all networks provide their own E/I programs, so stations that are affiliated with networks that do not carry children's program blocks acquire E/I programs off the syndication market to fulfill the requirements.\n\nAlso in the 1980s, news programming of various sorts began to be offered widely to stations. \"Independent Network News\", which was produced by WPIX in New York City, was a half-hour nightly program that ran from 1980 to 1990 on independent stations (in some markets, \"INN\" was paired with a locally produced primetime newscast); CNN would offer a simulcast of programming from its sister network Headline News (now HLN) to broadcast stations later, though it was used mainly to fill overnight time periods and was effectively discontinued in syndication with the 2006 launch of that network's \"Headline Prime\" talk show block. \"Entertainment Tonight\" began its long and continuing run as a \"soft\" news daily strip, with a number of imitations following (among which have included such entertainment news shows as \"TMZ on TV\", \"Extra\" and \"ET\"s own spin-off \"The Insider\"); and \"tabloid\" television, in the wake of ABC's \"20/20\" and, more immediately, 20th Television's \"A Current Affair\", would become a syndication staple with such series as \"Hard Copy\" and \"Real TV\".\n\nAnother area where network dominance was challenged by syndicated programming in the 1980s was with late-night talk shows; \"The Arsenio Hall Show\" was the only very successful one (it would be canceled after five years in 1994 due to ratings declines spurred by many CBS affiliates pushing the show to later timeslots following the debut of the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", and was later revived in 2013), but similar programs were attempted such as Alan Thicke's earlier short-lived \"Thicke of the Night\", Lauren Hutton's innovatively shot \"Lauren Hutton and...\", and talk shows hosted by Dennis Miller, Whoopi Goldberg, David Brenner and Keenen Ivory Wayans; Magic Johnson's \"The Magic Hour\" was seen as a massive flop, similar to \"Thicke of the Night\". The popularity of syndicated talk shows fell dramatically in the mid-1990s as network and cable offerings expanded in the wake of Johnny Carson's retirement.\n\nLong before their popularity on network television from the 2000s onward, reality competition shows in one form or another, such as \"Star Search\" and \"American Gladiators\", enjoyed popularity in syndication as early as the mid-1980s. Since the now-defunct networks UPN and The WB began offering their affiliates additional nights of prime time programming in the late 1990s, there have been fewer first-run scripted series in syndication, at least, in the U.S.; much as with the closing of windows that provided opportunity for Ziv in the 1950s and various producers in the early 1970s. The more expensive dramatic projects are less attractive to syndicators (particularly when they might be sold, with somewhat less risk, to cable channels); \"reality\" series such as \"Cheaters\" and \"Maximum Exposure\" and several dating series began to be more common in the early 2000s. Some of the more low-key programs in this category were designed to appeal to children, such as \"Beakman's World\", \"Disney's Sing Me A Story with Belle\", \"Animal Rescue\" and \"Jack Hanna's Animal Adventures\". They were able to get significant clearance because of stricter Federal Communications Commission (FCC) enforcement of rules on children's television programming.\n\nSeveral game shows are currently syndicated; historically, the most popular has been \"Wheel of Fortune\" and the current version of \"Jeopardy!\", both created by television personality Merv Griffin, respectively premiering in 1983 and 1984. The shows have been #1 and #2 or #1 to #3 in the syndication ratings consistently since at least the late 1980s. In fact, according to the \"Guinness Book of World Records\", \"Wheel\" is the most popular syndicated television program both within and outside the United States. \"Family Feud\", created by Mark Goodson and Bill Todman, ended its first syndication run in 1985. Three years later, a revival of the program featuring Ray Combs as host became a moderate hit and continued for seven seasons, its last year featuring the return of original host Richard Dawson in a failed attempt to save the series. A third revival hit the airwaves in 1999 and has gone through four hosts. The first three hosts (Louie Anderson, Richard Karn and John O'Hurley) struggled in their respective runs and only lasted three to four years. The current run of the program, hosted by Steve Harvey, has been a major ratings success; on the week of June 12, 2015, for the first time ever, \"Family Feud\" was the highest-rated syndicated program in terms of average household ratings. While the current version of \"The Price Is Right\" (another Goodson-Todman game show) has enjoyed tremendous success on the CBS daytime schedule since its inception in 1972 under hosts Bob Barker and Drew Carey, it has also produced three spinoffs, two of which failed after one season. The most successful syndicated edition was the 1972-80 weekly version that was initially hosted by Dennis James, but in 1977, daytime host Bob Barker also hosted the nighttime version for the final three seasons. For the 1985-86 season, Tom Kennedy hosted a daily syndicated version, and in 1994-95, Doug Davidson emceed his own daily syndicated version, titled \"The New Price Is Right\". Unlike the daytime series, which expanded to its current one-hour length in 1975, the syndicated versions of \"Price\" were 30 minutes long. A \"Hollywood Squares\" revival also thrived beginning in 1998 under host Tom Bergeron, running six seasons until its 2004 cancellation. By far the most successful entry into the market in the 2000s has been the daily version of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire\", which premiered in 2002.\n\nBecause game shows are very inexpensive to produce, with many episodes completed each day of production, successful ones are very profitable; for example, in 1988 \"Jeopardy!\" cost an estimated $5 million to produce but earned almost $50 million in revenue. New game show concepts (that is, not based on an existing or pre-existing format) are rarely tried and usually unsuccessful in syndication; somewhat of an exception to this was \"Street Smarts\", which lasted from 2001 to 2006 (despite the series airing in late night slots in many markets). Between 2003 and 2007, no new game shows debuted in syndication, marking four consecutive seasons where no new shows with that genre debuted, a syndication first. That streak ended with the fall 2007 debuts of \"Temptation\" and \"Merv Griffin's Crosswords\", bringing the daytime tally to six game shows; both ended production after one year, though \"Crosswords\" aired in reruns in some cities during the 2008–09 season before those reruns moved exclusively to cable.\n\nMore new shows were added for the 2008–09 fall season, including a daytime run of \"Deal or No Deal\" (which featured certain elements that differed from the show's franchised format, most notably with prospective players instead of models holding briefcases that held the monetary amounts) and of the popular board game \"Trivial Pursuit\". While \"Deal\" caught on and was renewed for the 2009–2010 season, \"\" suffered low ratings throughout its run and was canceled.\n\nFor the 2009–2010 season, the Fox game show \"Are You Smarter than a 5th Grader?\" moved to syndication with a new, less expensive format. \"Don't Forget the Lyrics!\" followed for the 2010–2011 season. \"Deal\", suffering from falling ratings, was canceled in February 2010, with the final episodes airing in late May of that same year. \"5th Grader\" and \"Don't Forget the Lyrics\" were canceled the following year for the same reason (although reruns of \"5th Grader\" remain on cable). Reruns of the popular Discovery Channel show \"Cash Cab\" began airing in syndication in January 2011. Reruns of the GSN dating game show \"Baggage\" first aired in syndication as a test run in early 2011 on stations owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, which preceded its full launch into other markets in fall 2012; although it was removed from syndication after one season.\n\nThe 2014-15 season saw the introduction of \"Celebrity Name Game\", hosted by former \"The Late Late Show\" host Craig Ferguson; the series was renewed for a second season in January 2015, while Ferguson would also win a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Game Show Host for his work on the program. In January 2016, Fox owned-and-operated stations began a test run of \"South of Wilshire\"—a game show produced by TMZ. The 2017 summer season includes the game show \"iWitness\" created by TV judge Judith Sheindlin.\n\nThe dominant form of first-run syndication in the U.S. for the last three decades has been the \"stripped\" (or \"strip\") talk show, such as \"Donahue\", \"Oprah Winfrey\", \"The Tyra Banks Show\", and \"The Jerry Springer Show\". Strip programming is a technique used for scheduling television and radio programming to ensure consistency and coherency. Strip programming is used to deliver consistent content to targeted audiences. Broadcasters know or predict the times at which certain demographics will be listening to or watching their programs and play them at that time. As with game shows, talk shows are inexpensive to produce and very profitable if successful. In many markets, a stripped show will be seen twice daily, usually with different episodes (one being a more recent episode and the other being an episode from a previous season). Sometimes, station groups with more than one station in a market, or a \"duopoly\", will run one episode of a strip on one of their stations in the morning, and the other available episode on another of their stations that night.\n\nMeanwhile, the popularity of some of the audience-participation talk shows continues to encourage new participants, some of whom, such as Morton Downey, Jr. and Rosie O'Donnell, have brief periods of impressive ratings and influence; others, such as Oprah Winfrey and Maury Povich, have a sustained run. A notable scheduling decision was made by KRON-TV in San Francisco: a 2000 dispute with NBC led to that station's disaffiliation from that network after 52 years, and since all the other larger networks were already represented in San Francisco, KRON decided to become one of the largest commercial independent stations by market size on the VHF band in the U.S., and soon tried running \"Dr. Phil\", a popular new stripped series hosted by Winfrey-associate Phil McGraw, in primetime, with impressive ratings results.\n\nFirst-run syndicated shows in the United States include talk shows (e.g., \"The Dr. Oz Show\", \"Dr. Phil\", \"Steve\", \"The Real\", \"The Doctors\", \"Face the Truth\", \"The Jeff Probst Show\" and \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\"); tabloid/newsmagazine shows (e.g., \"TMZ Live\"); crime/law enforcement shows (e.g., \"Crime Watch Daily\"); game shows (e.g., \"Hollywood Squares\", \"Funny You Should Ask\", \"Family Feud\", \"Jeopardy!\" and \"Wheel of Fortune\"); reality court shows (e.g., \"Judge Judy\", \"Judge Mathis\", \"Judge Faith\", \"Hot Bench\" and \"The People's Court\"); and sitcoms (e.g., \"The First Family\").\n\nIn earlier times, independent stations thrived on syndicated programming, including some venerable and quite profitable stations such as KMSP-TV in the Minneapolis-St. Paul market. With the loosening of FCC regulations and the creation of new additional broadcast networks (such as Fox, The CW, MyNetworkTV and Ion Television), most of these independents have joined one or another of these or smaller (religious or low-budget) networks.\n\nIn other cases, like those of KCAL-TV in Los Angeles, KMCI-TV in Lawrence-Kansas City and WMLW-TV in Racine-Milwaukee, those independent stations are used to complement their network-affiliated sister station (respectively in the mentioned cases, KCBS-TV, KSHB-TV and WDJT-TV) by allowing a duopoly control of more syndicated programming than would be possible on one station (and to spread it throughout the schedule of the two stations, often several times a day), or to air news programming in times unavailable on the larger network station, along with fulfilling network and syndicated programming commitments, which allows popular or network programming to be moved to the independent stations due to breaking news or sports commitments without the traditional inconvenience of a late night or weekend airing of the pre-empted show. A duopoly of a network-affiliated and independent station also allows a network station to move a low-rated syndicated program to their sister independent station to stem revenue losses.\n\nOff-network syndication occurs when a network television series is syndicated in packages containing some or all episodes, and sold to as many television stations and markets as possible to be used in local programming timeslots. In this manner, sitcoms are preferred and more successful because they are less serialized, and can be run non-sequentially, which is more beneficial and less costly for the station. In the United States, local stations now rarely broadcast reruns of primetime dramas (or simply air them primarily on weekends); instead, they usually air on basic cable channels, which may air each episode 30 to 60 times.\n\nSyndication rights typically last for six consecutive showings of a series within three to five years; if a program continues to perform well enough in broadcast or cable syndication during the initial cycle, television stations or cable networks can opt to renew an off-network program for an additional cycle.\n\nSyndication has been known to spur the popularity of a series that only experienced moderate success during its network run. The best known example of this is the original \"\" series, which ran for three seasons on NBC from 1966 to 1969, gaining only modest ratings, but became a worldwide phenomenon after it entered off-network syndication. Its success in syndication led to the \"Star Trek\" film series, \"\", and the later versions in the franchise.\n\nIt is common for long-running series to have early seasons syndicated while the series itself is still in first-run network production. In order to differentiate between new and rebroadcast content, until the 1980s it was not uncommon for series to be syndicated under a different title than that used in their original broadcast run. Examples include \"Bonanza\" (which was syndicated as \"Ponderosa\"), \"Gunsmoke\" (as \"Marshall Dillon\", a title still used to differentiate reruns from the early, half-hour and black-and-white episodes of the show from the later one-hour color episodes), \"Emergency!\" (as \"Emergency One\"), \"Ironside\" (as \"The Raymond Burr Show\"), \"Hawaii Five-O\" (as \"McGarrett\"), \"M*A*S*H\" (as \"M*A*S*H 4077th\"), \"Marcus Welby, M.D.\" (as \"Robert Young, Family Doctor\"), \"CHiPs\" (as \"CHiPs Patrol\"), and \"Happy Days\" (as \"Happy Days Again\").\n\nSyndication of older episodes can also increase exposure for a television show that is still airing first-run network episodes. In the case of the CBS sitcom \"The Big Bang Theory\", its syndication, particularly on TBS, is one of the reasons attributed for a rise in first-run ratings for its sixth season. The sixth-season episode \"The Bakersfield Expedition\", for example, was the first episode of that series to attract 20 million viewers.\n\nOff-network syndication can take several forms. The most common form is known as strip syndication or daily syndication, when episodes of a television series are shown daily five times a week in the same time slot. In the 1960s and 1970s, independent stations with no news departments began viewing strip syndication as a necessary means of obtaining effective counterprogramming to the local news programs airing on network affiliates. Typically, this means that enough episodes must exist (88 episodes, or four seasons, is the usual minimum, though many syndicators prefer a fully rounded 100 episodes) to allow for continual strip syndication to take place over the course of several months, without episodes being repeated. However, there are exceptions, such as the 65-episode block (common in children's programming), which allows for a 13-week cycle of daily showings, so there will only be four repeats in a year.\n\nIn some cases, more than one episode is shown daily. Half-hour sitcoms are sometimes syndicated in groups of two or four episodes, taking up one or two hours of broadcast time. If a series is not strip syndicated, it may be aired once a week, instead of five times a week. This allows shows with fewer episodes to last long in syndication, but it also may mean viewers will tire of waiting a week for the next episode of a show they have already seen and stop watching. More often, hour-long dramas in their first several runs in syndication are offered weekly; sitcoms are more likely to get stripped. In recent years, there has been something of a trend toward showing two consecutive episodes of a program on Saturday and Sunday nights after prime time (generally following the local news). This pattern has been particularly prominent for shows which are still in production but have run long enough to have many previous episodes available.\n\nAs with commercial stations, not all the airtime nor all the perceived audience are met by the productions offered U.S. public-broadcasting stations by PBS; additionally, there are some independent public television stations in the U.S. which take no programming from that (somewhat) decentralized network. As a result, there are several syndicators of programming for the non-profit stations, several of which are descendants of the regional station groups which combined some, not all, of their functions into the creation of PBS in 1969. American Public Television (APT) is the largest of these, nearly matched by the National Educational Telecommunications Association (NETA); similarly, the now defunct Continental Program Marketing was another of the syndicator-descendants (of the Northeastern, Southeastern, and Rocky Mountain educational networks, respectively) of the pre-PBS era. Among the other notable organizations in the U.S. are Westlink Satellite Operations (based at Albuquerque's KNME), BBC Worldwide Americas (which often works with other distributors and individual stations, since it has no satellite access of its own in the U.S.), Deutsche Welle, Executive Program Services, the Program Resource Group and PBS's Long Island, New York member station WLIW, which is (with the arguable exception of KNME) the most prolific contributor of any individual station of syndicated programming, most obviously the \"BBC World News\", \"Doctor Who\" and \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" in the U.S.\n\nOff-network syndication in its various forms, including Internet, international and traditional direct-to-station sales, constitute roughly half of an individual television program's overall revenue stream, with the other half taken up by advertising.\n\nIn 1993, Universal Studios became one of the first studios to cash in on the cable trend, first selling repeats of \"Major Dad\" to USA Network in 1993 for $600,000 per episode, the first time a network program was exclusively sold to a cable network for its first run rights. Later it sold reruns of \"Law & Order\" to A&E for about $155,000 an episode; in 1996, the studio got $275,000 from USA Network for repeats of \"New York Undercover\", a far less successful show. \"Law & Order\" drew A&E's highest daytime ratings – one million viewers per episode.\n\nUniversal sold reruns of \"\" and \"\" to USA Network for $300,000 each. And even long-forgotten shows can find new life: The Nashville Network bought \"The Dukes of Hazzard\" from Warner Bros. in 1997 for well over $10 million. USA Network paid $750,000 for the rights to \"Walker, Texas Ranger\"; while USA's reruns of the show drew an average of 2.3 million viewers – outstanding by cable standards – Perth says the show will need \"an enormous number of airings to have any sort of profitability.\"\n\nSources: Industry sources and Paul Kagan Associates, Inc. Per episode \nNot all programs in syndication are sold for a fee. Less popular programming may be distributed by \"barter\", in which the syndicator, instead of selling the show to a station, offers the show for free, with the caveat that the station give up its advertising time on other shows to the syndicator's advertisers. Barter syndication, in addition to the cost advantage, is popular because of its flexibility; a station can typically pick up a barter syndicated program for only a few weeks or months, without the long-term financial commitment of a traditional syndicated series, allowing the station to plug the show into its lineup to fill a hole in the schedule.\n\nCash deals are when a distributor offers a syndicated program to the highest bidder. A cash plus deal is when the distributor retains advertising space to offset some of the cost for the program. The station gets the program for a little less in exchange for some ad space for the producer.\n\nBarter deals are usually for new untested shows or older shows. In this type of deal, distributors get a fraction of the advertisement revenue in exchange for their program. For example, in a 7/5 deal the producer gets seven minutes of advertising time, leaving five minutes for the station to insert local as well as national advertisements.\n\nRadio syndication generally works the same way as television syndication, except that radio stations usually are not organized into strict affiliate-only networks. Radio networks generally are only distributors of radio shows, and individual stations (though often owned by large conglomerates) decide which shows to carry from a wide variety of networks and independent radio providers. As a result, radio networks such as WestwoodOne or Premiere Networks, despite their influence in broadcasting, are not as recognized among the general public as television networks like CBS or ABC (many of these distributors ally themselves with television networks; WestwoodOne, for instance, is allied with NBC, while Premiere is allied with Fox). Some examples of widely syndicated commercial broadcasting music programs include weekly countdowns like Rick Dees' \"Weekly Top 40\", the \"American Top 40\", \"American Country Countdown\" with Kix Brooks, \"Canada's Top 20 Countdown\", the \"Canadian Hit 30 Countdown\" and the nightly program, \"Delilah\", heard on many U.S. stations.\n\nSyndication is particularly popular in talk radio. While syndicated music shows (with the exception of some evening and overnight shows such as \"Delilah\" mentioned above) tend to air once a week and are mostly recorded, most popular talk radio programs are syndicated daily and are broadcast live. Also, with relatively few 24-hour live talk radio networks (though this, in recent times, has been changing), most radio stations are free to assemble their own lineup of talk show hosts as they so choose. Examples of syndicated talk programs are Premiere Networks' \"The Bob & Tom Show\", Dial Global's \"The Jim Bohannon Show\", and the self-syndicated \"The Dave Ramsey Show\" (more recently, talk networks such as Talk Radio Network have been marketing and packaging all-day lineups, marking a departure from the syndication model; as such, popular shows such as Cumulus Media Networks' \"The Savage Nation\" and Premiere's \"The Rush Limbaugh Show\" now air as part of a broader network lineup in many markets, particularly on Premiere owned-and-operated stations, though they continue to be syndicated to non-network stations as well). Talk syndication tends to be more prevalent because voice tracking, a practice used by many music stations to have disc jockeys host multiple supposedly local shows at once, is not feasible with live talk radio.\n\nNational Public Radio, Public Radio International, and American Public Media all sell programming to local member stations in the U.S., most of which are subsidized through the Corporation for Public Broadcasting but operated by private nonprofit organizations, universities, state or local governments. This is in contrast to centralized public radio networks in other countries (such as Canada's CBC, Australia's ABC and the United Kingdom's BBC) that own and operate all of their stations as arms of the national government and run them as a strict network (from 1948 to 2013, the United States had a strict anti-propaganda law, the Smith–Mundt Act, that prohibited broadcasting government-owned networks such as Voice of America to American audiences. The law was mostly repealed in 2013, but distribution of VOA or other federally produced radio programming is still rare). Two independently produced, non-commercial syndicated programs, heard on hundreds of community radio and indie radio stations, are \"Alternative Radio\" and \"Democracy Now!\". Some (in fact, most) radio programs are also offered on a barter system usually at no charge to the radio station. The system is used for live programming or preproduced programs and include a mixture of ad time sold by the program producer as well as time set aside for the radio station to sell.\n\nBefore radio networks matured in the United States, some early radio shows were reproduced on transcription disks and mailed to individual stations. An example of syndication using this method was RadiOzark Enterprises, Inc. based in Springfield, Missouri, co-owned with KWTO. The Assembly of God, with national headquarters in Springfield, sponsored a half-hour program on the station called \"Sermons in Song.\" RadiOzark began transcribing the show for other stations in the 1940s, and eventually 200 stations carried the program. The company later produced country music programs starring among others, Smiley Burnette, George Morgan, Bill Ring and Tennessee Ernie Ford (260 15-minute episodes of \"The Tennessee Ernie Show\" were distributed), and more than 1,200 U.S. and Canadian stations aired the programs. Many syndicated radio programs were distributed through the U.S. mail or another delivery service, although the medium changed as technology developed, going from transcription disks to phonograph records, tape recordings, cassette tapes and eventually CDs. Many smaller weekend programs still use this method to this day, though with the rise of the Internet, many stations have since opted to distribute programs via CD-quality MP3s through FTP downloads.\n\nIt was not until the advent of satellite communications in the 1980s that live syndication became popular (though it could be transmitted through network lines, it was not particularly common because of cost, network congestion and quality issues). Since then, most syndicated radio programs are distributed using satellite subcarrier audio technology. Shortly after satellite networks such as RKO, Transtar and SMN began, the Fairness Doctrine was repealed, which is credited with helping Rush Limbaugh become the first national talk radio superstar. At the same time, the FCC began issuing more FM radio licenses to suburban and rural areas in the late 1980s, which allowed more room for music stations on the FM dial; radio formats such as country music that were traditionally AM fixtures even after most pop and rock music moved to FM were now moving to FM as well, leaving much more room for talk formats on the AM dial. As the 1990s went on, Dr. Laura and Howard Stern began their national shows, rising to become national icons. The Telecommunications Act of 1996, which led to significant concentration of media ownership, facilitated the rapid deployment of both existing and new syndicated programs in the late 1990s, putting syndication on par with, and eventually surpassing, the network radio format.\n\nAfter the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, syndicated talk radio saw a notably rapid rise in popularity, as networks rushed new national shows into syndication to meet the demand for discussion of national issues. Many of these, such as Laura Ingraham, Bill O'Reilly, Sean Hannity and Glenn Beck, were mostly supportive of the actions of the Republican-led government; a few others, such as Alex Jones, were openly critical of the government's actions and motives. After the Democrats took control in the late 2000s, the gap between the two styles narrowed due to the mutual opposition of both camps to the government's actions, which allowed Jones greater clearance on stations.\n\nIn contrast to conservative talk radio, which has predominantly been driven by syndication, progressive talk radio has almost always been a network-driven model. The incompatibility of conservative and progressive ideologies and the lack of syndicated progressive hosts required solutions that could produce all-day programming to individual stations. It was not until Air America Radio launched in 2004 that progressive talk would become viable; though it failed several years later, Dial Global now carries a network slate that is carried on most progressive talk stations. Sports radio is likewise mostly a network phenomenon, partially because the irregular nature of sports pre-emptions makes having a full-time network to be able to cut into and join in progress at any time highly convenient. Syndicated radio is not as popular in other parts of the world. Canada has a few independently syndicated shows, but the bulk of syndicated content there comes from the United States, and the sum total of syndicated programming is far less than most American stations, as Canadian stations rely more heavily on local content. Most other countries still follow the network radio model.\n\nSyndication also applies to international markets. Same language countries often syndicate programs to each other – such as programs from the United Kingdom being syndicated to Australia and vice versa. Another example would be programs from the United Kingdom, Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina being syndicated to local television stations in the United States, and programs from the United States being syndicated elsewhere in the world. One of the best-known internationally syndicated television series has been \"The Muppet Show\", which was produced by Grade's English ITV franchise company ATV at Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire, and was shown around the world, including the United States, where it aired in syndication (including the owned-and-operated stations of CBS), and Canada, where CBC Television aired the show. The 1970s was a time when many British comedies, including \"The Benny Hill Show\" and \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" were syndicated to the United States and worldwide. Many soaps and long-running series are also successfully syndicated around the globe.\n\nThe television show \"\" earned $1.6 million per episode in its first cycle in cable syndication. There were many different versions of the show making it an international success. It was already popular in the U.S., so becoming a success internationally as well as within the U.S. made syndication sensible. Whether a series is produced in the U.S. or not is based on the economic value and potential viability of its sales internationally with the possibility of syndication.\n\nEconomic factors that influence production outside the U.S. play a major role in deciding if a television show will be syndicated, internally and internationally. International syndication has sustained a growing of prosperity and monetary value amongst the distributors who sell to them. Due to a rise in competition, syndicators have upheld high standards for different countries to buy the rights to distribute shows. During the 1990s poor ratings were common amongst syndicated shows, but distributors still made it possible for international competition to happen and buy U.S. shows. Colombian, Brazilian, Mexican and Venezuelan telenovelas are programmed throughout the Portuguese and Spanish-speaking world, and in many parts of India, China and Europe, while Turkish television drama is broadcast in the Balkans, some other European countries, Western and Central Asia and North Africa.\n\nBecause of the structural differences discussed above, there are presently very few areas where a true U.S.-style syndication model operates, whereby programs are sold on a per-area basis (within a single country) to local or regional stations with differing (or no) network affiliations. Canada was historically one of the few exceptions. Until the mid-1990s, television stations in Canada, like those in the U.S., were typically run as separate local operations, with a small number of moderately sized ownership groups such as Baton, CanWest, WIC, and CHUM. Those stations that were affiliated with a national network, i.e. CBC or CTV, did not always receive a full schedule of programming from that network.\n\nAt this time, it was not uncommon for U.S. syndicators to treat Canada as an extension of their domestic syndication operations, for both their first-run and off-network offerings. This is still the case for American radio programs; Canadian radio networks are not assembled as rigidly into networks (except for the CBC's radio division). However, an alternate form of first-run syndication was performed by some domestic broadcasters: as the Canadian rights to U.S. primetime series were often acquired by individual station groups (as opposed to full-fledged national networks), they would in turn resell local rights for those programs to stations in areas where they did not operate. A few of Canada's independent stations, most notably CHCH-TV and CITY-TV, also resyndicated their own locally produced programs to other television stations. Unlike in the United States, however, few Canadian programs were ever created solely for syndication without officially belonging to at least one specific station or network; those that did exist were intended primarily to be syndicated into the American system, and even those were typically distributed in Canada as \"network\" programs rather than being sold to individual stations.\n\nSince the late 1990s, as most stations have been consolidated into national networks consisting almost entirely of owned-and-operated stations and with full-day network schedules, both types of syndication have largely disappeared from the Canadian broadcast landscape. Programs that are sold in syndication in the U.S. are now generally sold to Canadian media groups to air across all their properties, with per-market sales now being very rare. For example, American shows that air in syndication in the United States, such as \"Live with Kelly and Ryan\" or \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", air in Canada as core parts of the CTV Television Network schedule. \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" appears to have been the last significant holdout to this model, having aired primarily on CTV stations, but in some markets airing instead on a Global station, and even some CBC affiliates.\n\nOne syndication service remains in Canada, yes TV, which serves the few remaining independent stations in the country with mostly American programs (\"Judge Judy\", \"Wheel of Fortune\" and \"Jeopardy!\" are currently syndicated in Canada through yes TV). These independent stations can also secure deals with American syndicators; CHCH, for example, has a direct deal with 20th Television to carry some of that company's classic sitcoms, including those from the MTM Enterprises library.\n\nThere are three key reasons why a radio station will decide to pick up a syndicated show – the program is unique and difficult to replicate content, has a decent ratings track record or offers a celebrity host. New developing radio programs are generally able to claim one of these attributes, but not all three. Regional syndication attempts to replace these benchmark attributes with other benefits that are generally recognized by the industry as also being important. Given the financial downturn within the industry, the need for quality cost effective locally relevant programming is greater than ever before. Programs that offer regionally specific content while providing the economic benefits of syndication can be especially appealing to potential affiliates. Regional syndication can also be more attractive to area advertisers who share a common regional trading area versus assembling a radio network of stations that hopscotch across the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "645285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645285", "title": "Callback (telecommunications)", "text": "Callback (telecommunications)\n\nIn telecommunications, a callback or call-back occurs when the originator of a call is immediately called back in a second call as a response.\n\nA callback, in this sense is a method of making low-cost international calls via a third country, usually the United States, where call charges are considerably lower. One variation of this technology was developed by IDT Corporation in 1991. IDT Corp used a hardware solution that was never widely accepted and ultimately failed and was surpassed by a software solution concurrently developed by Jorge Blanco at MCI Telecommunications for The United Nations Development Programme and their staff Wolfgang Scholtes and Kumar Navaratnum.\n\nIn order to use a callback service, a subscriber is allocated a unique number in, for example, the US, which must first be dialled in order to trigger a return call. This is known (in the US) as a Direct Inbound Dialing (DID) number, or in the UK as a Direct Dial-In (DDI) number. Where Caller ID is available, it may be possible to use the same DID number for many different subscribers, as the callback system will be able to recognise each subscriber's registered number.\n\nOn hearing a ringing tone, the subscriber simply hangs up and awaits the callback. On receiving this, usually within a few seconds, the customer picks up the phone and dials the required number. This may mean dialling in the North American format, as most callback services are US-based, and callers are effectively calling from the US. For example, a number in Manhattan would be dialled with the trunk code, area code and subscriber's number, as follows:\n\nA call to London in the UK, would require the international access code and country calling code, as follows:\n\nIn the North American Numbering Plan, 011 is used as the international access code, but in most countries, 00 is used, in line with International Telecommunication Union's Recommendation E.164.\n\nThe cost of making a telephone call via callback consists of two parts, as the caller is effectively paying for an outbound and inbound call at the same time. For example, if a customer from Spain is calling a phone number in Australia, and it costs 8 cents per minute to phone Spain from the US (the callback, which is an incoming call) and 20 cents per minute to phone Australia from the US (the destination call, which is an outgoing call), then the caller will pay a total of 28 US cents a minute. This may still be less expensive than calling directly from Spain to Australia, which is primarily why callbacks are used.\n\nCallback is often automated through the use of web callback or mobile phone applications by companies such as GlobalTel and Jajah, or on Roaming SIMs.\n\nMany countries have banned callback services, on the grounds that they are not licensed or regulated by their governments, and deprive telephone companies in many developing countries of revenue from international calls. People who provide or use callback services have argued that these telephone companies are often state monopolies that charge unjustifiably high prices for international calls. It may also be the only way of making calls to certain countries from others, for example, Israel from other Middle Eastern countries.\n\nOther countries have sought to use technical means to prevent callback, by blocking the inbound and outbound calls made to and from DID numbers, or by disabling touch tone dialing. However, this is also overcome by the use of speed dial numbers, while others use these services by triggering callback via the Internet or SMS.\n\nThe use of callback in most developed countries has declined, owing to the liberalization of telecommunication services, which allow more direct access to low-cost international calls, without the need for a time-consuming process like callback. Also, the advent of Voice over Internet Protocol services has allowed many people to make international calls via their computer connected to the Internet, although sound quality can be poorer on slower dial-up connections than on broadband ones.\n\nInternational callback has been credited with opening global telecom markets because it enabled competition to start up even if regulatory restrictions existed. It was popularized by a 1994 book, \"The International CallBack Book\" by Gene Retske.\n\nA modem allows one computer (the client) to establish a connection to another (the server) by dialing the server's telephone number. This is sometimes viewed as being insecure because there is no authentication of the call originator. One way to increase security is to enforce a modem callback protocol, which usually proceeds as a series of steps:\n\n\nSometimes callback modem setups can also be used for billback purposes, allowing the originator to avoid lengthy toll charges.\n\nAutomatic ring back, to an engaged number, sometimes referred to as callback\n\n"}
{"id": "2078043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2078043", "title": "Central Sudanic languages", "text": "Central Sudanic languages\n\nCentral Sudanic is a family of about sixty languages that have been included in the proposed Nilo-Saharan language family. Central Sudanic languages are spoken in the Central African Republic, Chad, South Sudan, Uganda, Congo (DRC) and Cameroon. They include the pygmy languages Efé and Asoa.\n\nBlench (2011) suggests that Central Sudanic influenced the development of the noun-class system characteristic of the Niger–Congo languages.\n\nHalf a dozen groups of Central Sudanic languages are generally accepted as valid. They are customarily divided into East and West branches; Starostin (2016) finds support for Eastern Central Sudanic (Lendu, Mangbetu, Lugbara, etc., concentrated in the northeast corner of DR Congo) but not for the western division, which would include Bongo–Bagirmi and Kresh scattered across Chad, the CAR, and South Sudan.\n\nStarostin (2011) notes that the poorly attested language Mimi of Decorse is suggestive of Central Sudanic, though he provisionally treats it as an isolate. Boyeldieu (2010) states that the inclusion of Kresh has yet to be demonstrated, but Starostin (2016) finds good support, with Birri being its closest relative.\n\n"}
{"id": "498274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498274", "title": "Chiac", "text": "Chiac\n\nChiac is a vernacular Acadian French language with influences from English and to a lesser extent from various Canadian aboriginal languages. It is spoken by many Acadians in southeast New Brunswick, especially among youth near Moncton, Dieppe, Memramcook and Shediac and is becoming increasingly popular among the youth in the area. Chiac is a relatively recent development of the French language whose growth was spurred in the 1960s by the dominance of English-language media in Canada, the lack of French-language primary and secondary education, increased urbanization of Moncton, and contact with the dominant Anglophone community in the area. The word 'Chiac' is believed to be derived from \"Shediac\". University of Orléans linguist Marie‑Ève Perrot describes Chiac as \"the integration and transformation of English lexical, syntactic, morphological, and phonetic forms into French structures\".\n\nThe roots and base of Chiac are Acadian French, a spoken French often tinged with nautical terms (e.g. \"haler\", \"embarquer),\" reflecting the historical importance of the sea to the local economy and culture. Chiac also contains many older French words (e.g., \"bailler\", \"quérir\", \"hucher\", \"gosier\") which are now deemed archaic by the Académie Française, as well as aboriginal-derived terms, notably from Mi'kmaq, evident in words such as \"matues\", meaning 'porcupine'. Chiac uses primarily French syntax with French-English vocabulary and phrase forms (see below). It is often deprecated by both French and English speakers as an ill-conceived hybrid language — either \"bad\" French or \"bad\" English. See franglais for a wider discussion of this phenomenon. The collected works of Goncourt prize-winner Antonine Maillet, and her play \"La Sagouine\" in particular illustrate this variation of French very well. \n\nChiac has been embraced in recent years by some Acadian groups as a living and evolving language, and part of their collective culture. Acadian writers, poets and musicians such as France Daigle, Zero Celsius, Radio Radio, Paul Bossé, Fayo, Lisa LeBlanc, and 1755 have produced works in Chiac. Recently, Chiac has also made its way onto a local television station with Acadieman, a comedy about \"The world's first Acadian Superhero\" by Dano Leblanc. The animated series, also a comic book, contains a mixture of Anglophone, Francophone, and \"Chiacophone\" characters. The popular Acadian rap group Radio Radio have also raised the profile of Chiac by rapping almost exclusively in that language. \"Acadian\" French has been greatly influenced by Chiac as it has spread among the younger generations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58112922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58112922", "title": "Colette Ní Ghallchóir", "text": "Colette Ní Ghallchóir\n\nColette Ní Ghallchóir, Irish writer, born 1950.\n\nNí Ghallchóir of County Donegal, raised in the Gaelteacht.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6517092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6517092", "title": "Cusco Quechua", "text": "Cusco Quechua\n\nCusco Quechua () is a dialect of Southern Quechua spoken in Cusco and the Cusco Region of Peru.\n\nIt is the Quechua variety used by the Academia Mayor de la Lengua Quechua in Cusco, which also prefers the Spanish-based five-vowel alphabet. On the other hand, the official alphabet used by the ministry of education has only three vowels.\n\nCuzco Quechua has three vowels: /a, i, u/.\n\n"}
{"id": "49389783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49389783", "title": "Doki (app)", "text": "Doki (app)\n\nDoki is an immersive method of learning the basics of foreign languages. The method is based on the idea of teaching a language in an entertaining way with humour and without focusing on grammar. Doki is currently available as a collection of 14 different mobile apps designed for iOS devices. It offers a basic level (Doki) and an advanced basic level (Doki Further) for learning English, French, German, Iberian Spanish and Latin American Spanish.\n\nDoki features a cartoon-style, city map (Doki City) in which the student navigates to learn vocabulary and common phrases associated with one of the city's 14 different places (lessons). For example, the student can tap on the restaurant icon to learn about different foods and how to order at a restaurant. Each place has interactive exercises to reinforce learning. All dialogues are spoken by native-speakers and the first two chapters are offered for free. Doki was awarded the “Parent’s Choice” Award at the Europrix Multimedia Awards.\n\nDoki was founded in 1999 in Cyprus and UK by Andy Hadjicostis and was first launched as CD-ROMs for Windows and OSX systems in 2001. After Andy passed away in 2010, his family decided to develop Doki into iOS apps. The apps were launched in December 2012. As of February 2016, the apps have been downloaded by more than 680.000 users.\n\n\nDoki website\n"}
{"id": "55642492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55642492", "title": "Durio graveolens", "text": "Durio graveolens\n\n\"Durio graveolens,\" sometimes called the red-fleshed durian, orange-fleshed durian, or yellow durian, is a species of tree in the family Malvaceae. It is one of six species of durian named by Odoardo Beccari. The specific epithet \"graveolens\" ('strong smelling' or 'rank') is due to the odor, although most species of \"Durio\" (most notably \"Durio dulcis\") have a strong scent, the red-fleshed type of \"D. graveolens\" has very little scent.\n\n\"D. graveolens\" is an edible durian, perhaps the most popular 'wild' species of durian, and it is sold commercially regionally. However, its cogenitor \"Durio zibethinus\" is the typical species eaten and dominates sales worldwide. This species also should not be confused with the popular durian clones from Malaysia known as 'Red Flesh' (D164) and \"Red Prawn\" (D175), as both of those belong to \"D. zibethinus\".\n\nHowever, \"D. graveolens\" does have one registered variety, 'DQ2 nyekak (DK8)'. The color of the fruit's flesh denotes other varieties -an orange-fleshed, a red-fleshed one, and yellow-fleshed. These varieties may be different species, but currently it is not known for sure. The yellow-fleshed kind is sometimes called \"durian simpor\".\n\nIn Malay, it is called ' or ' (lit. bird durian), ' (jungle durian), ' (yellow durian), ' (red durian), or ' (lit. crayfish brain durian). In Iban, it is '. The Bidayuh call it \"durian umot\". Among the Kenyah and Dayak peoples, it is known as \"durian anggang\" (hornbill durian), \"durian ajan\", \"pesang\", \"tabela\" or \"ta-bela\", \"tabelak\", \"taula\", \"tuala\", \"tuwala\". On Sumatra, the Batak call it \"tinambela\". In Karo it is called '. In Southern Thailand, it is referred to as ' (\"\"). In Aceh Tamiang Regency, it can be called \"durian batu\" (stone durian), and elsewhere in Sumatra, it known as \"durian adjan\". Other regional names include \"durian dalit\" (but this can apply also to \"Durio oxleyanus\") \"alau\", \"dujen\", \"durian alau\", \"durian daun dungoh\", \"durian hutan\" (forest durian), \"durian pipit\", \"lai bengang\", \"merang kunyit\", \"pasang\", and \"tongkai\".\nA natural hybrid of \"D. graveolens\" and \"D. zibethinus\" is called \"durian siunggong\" or \"durian suluk\". It has the texture and flavour of the popular \"D. zibethinus\" and the burnt caramel overtones of \"D. graveolens\".\n\nAfter its initial description in 1889 by Beccari in 1924, Reinier Cornelis Bakhuizen Van Den Brink reduced it to a synonym of \"D. conicus\". John Wyatt-Smith combined it all under \"D. dulcis\" in 1953. André Joseph Guillaume Henri Kostermans and Wertit Soegeng-Reksodihardjo separated \"D. graveolens\" back to its own species in 1958.\n\nWild \"D. graveolens\" grows in Peninsular Malaysia (states of Johor, Kedah, Kelantan, Malacca, Penang, Perak, Selangor, and Terengganu), Borneo, Sumatra, Palawan, and Southern Thailand. It is cultivated in Brunei, Sarawak, Sabah, and the Northern Territory of Australia. In Brunei its popularity outshines \"D. zibethinus\", which is not cultivated in the country.\n\nIt is occasionally grown outside the tropics. In Florida, it has been seen to survive two consecutive nights at , albeit shrouded in cloth.\n\n\"D. graveolens\" is a large tree, sharing many features with \"D. dulcis\". It inhabits the upper canopy, growing up to tall. The trunk is in diameter and can have no branches until about high. The trunk will be smooth or flaky, grey/mauve to ruddy brown with steep buttress roots. The buttresses reach and extend out .\nThe oblong leaves are long without the petiole and wide. They are perfectly rounded on both ends, rigid, and slightly coriaceous. On the top, they are glabrous and crisp, almost vernicose (varnished). Underneath, the leaves are copper-brown and lepidote (scaly), with large scales of up to in diameter, which are not very noticeable, at least when dry. The leaf scales are peltate (shield-shaped), ciliate-radiated (fringed), and deeply-lobed in three to five parts. In addition to the scales,e long strands of stellate hairs and other trichomes of varying size form a soft tomentose (fuzzy) surface. The leaf midrib is very prominent on the underside and forms a crease on top. The leaf stipules are caducous (drop early). Leaves have 10-12 lateral veins per side (with some smaller ones intermixed), which are tiny and superficial above and more distinct, but still barely visible. The petiole is very large, long, and tumescent (swollen) from the middle up.\n\nFlowers grow on the branches on short cymes and a thin calyx. The base is sac-like with three to five connate lobes. It has white, spatulate (spoon-shaped) petals that are long. Inside are five separate bundles of staminodes and stamens, fused for less than half of their length. The anther has small clusters of four or five elongated pollen locules that open with longitudinal slits. Ovaries are ovoid to globose and possess a yellow capitate (shaped like a pinhead) stigma and white to greenish style about . The pollen is psilate (relatively smooth), spheroidal, and in diameter. It has three colporate (combined pore and colpus/furrow) apertures and is monad (solitary grains).\n\nThe ovoid to globose fruits are up to in diameter, and weigh about . The greenish- to orange-yellow outside is densely covered with long () and thin angular-subulate spines which are straight or slightly curved, and prickly yet slightly soft. The fruit easily breaks into five fibrous-coriaceous valves (sections) with thick walls. Typically the fruit opens on the tree, but some varieties do not until they are on the ground or harvested. There are 2 bulbous or chestnut-shaped seeds per section, each completely enveloped by fleshy aril. These glossy brown seeds are . The pungent aril is the part consumed as food, though some sources note the odor is sometimes very mild. It ranges in color from light yellow to orange to lipstick red.\n\n\"D. graveolens\" is in the core clade \"Palatadurio\" of the genus \"Durio\". It is most closely related to \"Durio kutejensis\".\n\n\"D. graveolens\" is a tropical plant species that needs high heat and humidity. Typically, it is found on clay-rich soils in wet lowland dipterocarp forests, frequently along riverbanks and swamps. Because of its tolerance for wet habitats, it is possibly resistant to infection by the oomycete \"Phytophthora palmivora\". It can also be found on hillsides and shale ridges up to in elevation.\n\nIt is pollinated by bats. As it is one of the only species to naturally hybridize with \"D. zibethinus\", They are thought to share a pollinator, likely the cave nectar bat (\"Eonycteris spelaea\"). Pollen from both of these durian species has been found in cave nectar bat feces, and possibly in that of long-tongued fruit bat (\"Macroglossus sobrinus\").\n\nAfter harvest, fruit can be set upon by fungi such as \"Lasiodiplodia theobromae\", \"Glomerella cingulata\", \"Geotrichum candidum\", \"Calonectria kyotensis\", and occasionally \"Gliocephalotrichum bulbilium\". Secondary or opportunistic fungal infection can be from species such as \"Aspergillus niger\" and other \"Aspergillus\" spp., \"Candida\" spp., \"Gibberella intricans\", and \"Penicillium\" spp.\n\nThe fruit is fed on by Bornean orangutans (\"Pongo pygmaeus\"), Prevost's squirrels (\"Callosciurus prevostii\"), Crab-eating macaques (\"Macaca fascicularis\"), Black hornbills (\"Anthracoceros malayanus\"), possibly viverrids and sun bears (\"Helarctos malayanus\"). Black hornbills are also effective seed dispersers for the tree, and this is referenced in a few of the regional names for the tree .\n\nThe fatty acids in the fruit are 30% saturated and 70% unsaturated. The saturated fats include myristic acid (14.49%), arachidic acid (7.08%), pentadecanoic acid (3.61%), heptadecanoic acid (2.2%), decanoic acid (1.62%), and lauric acid (1.31%). Unsaturated fats include oleic acid (22.18%), palmitoleic acid (13.55%), linolelaidic acid (12.39%), γ-linolenic acid (12.23%), linoleic acid (4.95%), elaidic acid (2.50%), and myristoleic acid (1.89%).\n\nThe fruit's pulp is typically eaten raw and has the fragrance of roasted almonds or burnt caramel. The taste is described as sweet and cheesy or similar to eating an avocado or pimento cheese. Sometimes, it is it is fermented into the condiment \"tempoyak\". The red-fleshed type is used with freshwater fish to make a type of \"sayur\".\n\nThe seeds can also be ground into flour (\"\"), which then can be used to make e.g. fish crackers.\n\nThe tree is also harvested for lumber in Sarawak. The Iban people there also bathe day-old infants (especially for preterm birth) in a tisane of mature bark, as they believe it strengthens the skin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47629962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47629962", "title": "Duty of Prudence", "text": "Duty of Prudence\n\nIn Trust Law, the Duty of Prudence traditionally includes the duty of a trustee to administer a trust with a degree of care, skill and caution. The degree of care required depends both on the jurisdiction on the trustee's actual or purported skill, for example if they have an accounting background (or claimed to have one), they must exercise professional care. At a minimum, a trustee is required to act with the care of a \"prudent person\" would in dealing with the assets of another, given the purposes, terms, and other circumstances of the trust.\n\nMany jurisdictions have codified specific extensions or interpretations to this duty, for example related to investments, the Uniform Prudent Investor Act adopted in many U.S. states requires the application of modern portfolio theory in diversifying investment.\n"}
{"id": "24487860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24487860", "title": "Dyscopia", "text": "Dyscopia\n\nDyscopia consists of the Latin root \"copia\", which means abundance or plenty (see cornucopia), and the Greek prefix \"dys\", which means \"bad\", \"abnormal\", \"difficult\" or \"impaired\".\n\nThis word has assumed two meanings, both of which are essentially a pun based on the similarity of the sound of the words \"copy\" and \"cope\" with \"copia\".\n\nIn the field of neurology, dyscopia is used to describe a type of developmental coordination disorder related to dyslexia and dysgraphia (inability to read or write). Specifically, it is taken to mean difficulty with copying. Sometimes a similar word, \"acopia\", is mistaken to mean the same, although this is not a medical term and has no basis in Latin. The correct Latin words for these conditions are \"dystranscribia\" and \"atranscribia\".\n\nThe term \"dyscopia\" has also crept into general medical parlance as a tongue-in-cheek shorthand notation for patients who, after being examined and found to have no specific medical condition, are deemed to be not coping with certain aspects of their lives, and are presumed to be seeking treatment as a form of comfort from the medical profession. More recently, and controversially, the term has been used in this context as a diagnosis for admission to hospital.\n\nThe words have also been used in medical notes as a cryptic indication that certain members of a seriously ill patient's family are not coping with the situation and should be afforded some extra consideration to their feelings when the case is being discussed.\n\nIn neurology, the word \"dyscopia\" is used to describe a condition which is common as one of the sequelae of cerebral commisurotomy, a neurosurgical procedure in which the left and right hemispheres of the brain are separated by severing the corpus callosum. This procedure has been shown to reduce the frequency and severity of seizures in extreme cases of epilepsy.\n\nAn affected individual will exhibit difficulty with copying simple line drawings. This is often accompanied to lesser or greater degree by difficulty with writing and other fine motor skills.\n\nTerms such as \"social admission\", \"atypical presentation\", and even the derogatory terms \"bed blocker\" or \"crumblie\" have been used in medical notes synonymously with dyscopia or acopia as a reason for hospital admission.\n\nThe use of the term has become sufficiently commonplace in medical notes that a recent publication of a psychiatric dictionary even cites it as an actual diagnosis.\n\nPatients who are likely to be labelled with one of these terms are sometimes frail and elderly or people with long-term disabilities. Their failure to cope is often a result of inadequate social support coupled with a deterioration of functional capability which is not clearly linked to an obvious or specific medical or psychiatric pathology.\n\nSometimes, however, despite the fact that terms such as acopia and social admission can be considered tongue-in-cheek by those adhering to the strictest of medical and psychiatric terminology, they can frequently describe a range of \"symptoms\", such as extreme lability and emotionality when demands are not met and the unwillingness of a minority of patients that might be encountered in psychiatry, to function and make ends meet, despite the fact that such patients might be lucid and able-bodied. \n\nA possible controversy associated with using dyscopia and acopia as diagnoses could arise when wrongfully applied to those who have genuine problems with mobility; genuine medical conditions may be overlooked. Investigation of symptoms is a legitimate reason for admission, and if medical staff are too swift to dismiss concerns by use of such informal labels, genuine symptoms may not be taken seriously and investigated. This may lead to treatable conditions being overlooked, and in turn, result in compromised quality of life and unnecessary suffering.\n\nDyscopia (and likewise acopia), in this context, is not generally used by the medical community for fear of insulting the patient and bringing the caregiver's professional standing into question.\n\nAcopia has been adopted as the name of a company based in Crawley, UK, presumably referring the correct Latin root of the word \"copia\" meaning abundance.\n\nThe words also appear to be gaining traction in common usage as colloquialisms meaning emotional lability over trivial events or circumstances. This may well assist in demystifying the term and discouraging its usage in medical circles.\n"}
{"id": "3502683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3502683", "title": "Estonian Wikipedia", "text": "Estonian Wikipedia\n\nThe Estonian Wikipedia () is the Estonian version of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia, started on 24 July 2002. As of 2018, the edition has about articles.\n\nOn 7 December 2008 Estonian Wikipedian Andres Luure was one of fifteen individuals recognized for volunteerism in Estonia for 2008. In 2013 he received Order of the White Star for his contributions to Wikipedia.\n\nThe first article competition was held in spring 2009 and first photo competition in summer 2010. Since then those kinds of competitions have been common in Estonian Wikipedia.\n\nAs of August 2012, The Estonian Wikipedia has the 3rd greatest number of articles per speaker among Wikipedias with over 100,000 articles, and ranks 10th overall. These figures were based on Ethnologue's estimate of 1,048,660 Estonian speakers.\n\nThe Estonian Wikipedia is the 41st edition to reach the milestone of 100,000 articles and the third edition in a Uralic language to do so, after the Finnish and Hungarian Wikipedias.\n\nAs of August 2012, the Estonian Wikipedia's number of articles accounts for approximately 23% of all the articles written in a Finno-Permic language, making it the second largest edition in the family after Finnish, which accounts for 70% of Finno-Permic articles.\n\nThe Estonian Wikipedia has a relatively high percentage of administrators per regular active users (over 9%) compared to the Finnish Wikipedia, where only 2.5% of active users are administrators. As of 2018, the edition has active contributors and administrators.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of its edits originate from Estonia, while a minority of contributions come from neighboring Northern European countries, which account for most of the remaining share of editors.\n\nThe first meeting for local Wikipedians was held in 2007.\n\nThe Estonian Wikimedia chapter named Wikimedia Eesti was founded in 2010 to support Estonian Wikipedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1279718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279718", "title": "French language in Cambodia", "text": "French language in Cambodia\n\nCambodia is the smallest of the three Francophone communities in Southeast Asia, the others being found in Vietnam and Laos. Out of all Asian Francophone nations, Cambodia is where French has declined the most.\nIn 2014, French was spoken by people as a foreign language, which is 3% of the country's population and by only 873 people as a mother tongue according to the country's 2008 census.\n\nThe French language began its presence in Cambodia in the late 19th century after French explorers and merchants made their way from Vietnam into Cambodia. In 1863, Cambodia became a protectorate of France and was incorporated into French Indochina in 1887. The French did not exert much influence on Cambodia as they did in Vietnam and Khmer still remained widely taught and spoken in Cambodia as French was only limited to politicians. It was not until the 1890s that French began to be introduced in Cambodian education, but that was only limited to elite classes and it was only until the 1910s that the masses began learning French nationwide. With the growth of revolutionary movements in Vietnam, the French did not promote education in Cambodia and literacy rates remained low. The French language's growth in Cambodia only slightly increased until the Japanese invasion of Cambodia in World War II. Under the Japanese, Khmer was also made a government language alongside French and the two were taught alongside in schools. After the war, French again became the sole official language. When Cambodia became independent in 1953, the French language continued to be widely taught and used in the government.\n\nDespite its strong presence in the government and education, French declined earlier and heavier in Cambodia than in Vietnam and Laos. Lower rates of influence and education in Cambodia meant that by the 1960s, French began to decline in Cambodia in contrast to being a government language in South Vietnam and Laos. In the mid-1970s, the Khmer Rouge came into power in Cambodia and began killing thousands of educated Cambodians, most of whom were French-educated. By the end of their reign in 1979, French had almost been completely wiped out in Cambodia. A Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia that established the People's Republic of Kampuchea reintroduced French into the nation, though ironically, French began its decline in Vietnam around this time. French continued to gain ground in Cambodia until 1993, when the present government of Cambodia took power and Khmer became the sole language of government and primary language of education. Beginning in the late 1990s, the English language became more widely taught in Cambodia and French continued its decline as English was seen as a more useful international language. Revival of the French language has gained ground much later in Cambodia than in Vietnam and Laos. In 1997, a French-language center opened in Phnom Penh and French-language education began to revive in Cambodia and dozens of Cambodian students study abroad each year in France. French is also once again, a diplomatic language of Cambodia. Communities of returned refugees from France and Quebec as well as students who have studied in Francophone nations have also added to the French-speaking population of Cambodia.\n\nCambodia has a large 'French Belt' running through some of its eastern provinces. Western Mondulkiri Province, central Kratié Province and eastern Tboung Khmum Province have a French language medium, often taking priority over the native Khmer language. Schools, offices and government institutions use the French language in this area, due to its colonial influence during the French Protectorate of Cambodia period of time.\n\nCambodian French vocabulary has been influenced by Cambodian, Cantonese Chinese, and Teochew Chinese. Cambodian French is based on standard Parisian French but contains more differences from standard French than the dialects of Vietnam and Laos.\n\nFrench-language media is present in Cambodia, though less so than in Vietnam and Laos. The nation boasts a French-language newspaper, \"Cambodge Nouveau\" (and had another, \"Cambodge Soir\", until 2010), as well as French-language television channels.\n\n"}
{"id": "41678745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41678745", "title": "Globoid (botany)", "text": "Globoid (botany)\n\nA globoid is a spherical crystalline inclusion in a protein body found in seed tissues that contains phytate and other nutrients for plant growth. These are found in several plants, including wheat and the genus \"Cucurbita\". These nutrients are eventually completely depleted during seedling growth. In \"Cucurbita maxima\", globoids form as early as the 3rd day of seedling growth. They are located in conjunction with a larger crystalloid. They are electron–dense and vary widely in size.\n"}
{"id": "76234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76234", "title": "Guarani language", "text": "Guarani language\n\nGuarani () specifically the primary variety known as Paraguayan Guarani (endonym \"avañe'ẽ\" 'the people's language'), is an indigenous language of South America that belongs to the Tupi–Guarani family of the Tupian languages. It is one of the official languages of Paraguay (along with Spanish), where it is spoken by the majority of the population, and where half of the rural population is monolingual. It is spoken by communities in neighboring countries, including parts of northeastern Argentina, southeastern Bolivia and southwestern Brazil, and is a second official language of the Argentine province of Corrientes since 2004; it is also an official language of Mercosur.\n\nGuarani is one of the most-widely spoken indigenous languages of the Americas and the only one whose speakers include a large proportion of non-indigenous people. This is an interesting anomaly in the Americas, where language shift towards European colonial languages (in this case, the other official language of Spanish) has otherwise been a nearly universal cultural and identity marker of mestizos (people of mixed Spanish and Amerindian ancestry), and also of culturally assimilated, upwardly mobile Amerindian people.\n\nJesuit priest Antonio Ruiz de Montoya, who in 1639 published the first written grammar of Guarani in a book called \"Tesoro de la lengua guaraní\" (Treasure of the Guarani Language / The Guarani Language Thesaurus), described it as a language \"so copious and elegant that it can compete with the most famous [of languages]\".\n\nThe name \"Guarani\" is generally used for the official language of Paraguay. However, this is part of a dialect chain, most of whose components are also often called Guarani.\n\nThe persistence of Guarani is, contrary to popular belief, not exclusively, or even primarily, due to the influence of the Jesuits in Paraguay. While Guarani was the only language spoken in the expansive missionary territories, Paraguayan Guarani has its roots outside of the Jesuit reductions.\n\nModern scholarship has shown that Guarani was always the primary language of colonial Paraguay, both inside and outside the reductions. Following the expulsion of the Jesuits in the 18th century, the residents of the reductions gradually migrated north and west towards Asunción, a demographic shift that brought about a decidedly one-sided shift away from the Jesuit dialect that the missionaries had curated in the southern and eastern territories of the colony.\n\nBy and large, the Guarani of the Jesuits shied away from direct phonological loans from Spanish. Instead, the missionaries relied on the agglutinative nature of the language to formulate calque terms from native morphemes. This process often led the Jesuits to employ complicated, highly synthetic terms to convey Western concepts. By contrast, the Guarani spoken outside of the missions was characterized by a free, unregulated flow of Hispanicisms; frequently, Spanish words and phrases were simply incorporated into Guarani with minimal phonological adaptation.\n\nA good example of this phenomenon is found in the word \"communion\". The Jesuits, using their agglutinative strategy, rendered this word \"Tupârahava\", a calque based on the word \"Tupâ\", meaning God. In modern Paraguayan Guarani, the same word is rendered \"komuño\".\n\nFollowing the out-migration from the reductions, these two distinct dialects of Guarani came into extensive contact for the first time. The vast majority of speakers abandoned the less-colloquial, highly regulated Jesuit variant in favor of the variety that evolved from actual language usage by speakers in Paraguay. This contemporary form of spoken Guaraní is known as Jopará.\n\nGuarani became a written language relatively recently. Its modern alphabet is basically a subset of the Latin script (with \"J\", \"K\" and \"Y\" but not \"W\"), complemented with two diacritics and six digraphs. Its orthography is largely phonemic, with letter values mostly similar to those of Spanish. The tilde is used with many letters that are considered part of the alphabet. In the case of Ñ/ñ, it differentiates the palatal nasal from the alveolar nasal (as in Spanish), whereas it marks stressed nasalisation when used over a vowel (as in Portuguese): ã, ẽ, ĩ, õ, ũ, ỹ. (Nasal vowels have been written with several other diacritics: ä, ā, â, ã.) The tilde also marks nasality in the case of G̃/g̃, used to represent the nasalized velar approximant by combining the velar approximant \"G\" with the nasalising tilde. The letter G̃/g̃, which is unique to this language, was introduced into the orthography relatively recently during the mid-20th century and there is disagreement over its use. It is not a precomposed character in Unicode, which can cause typographic inconveniences – such as needing to press \"delete\" twice – or imperfect rendering when using computers and fonts that do not properly support the complex layout feature of glyph composition.\n\nOnly stressed nasal vowels are written as nasal. If an oral vowel is stressed, and it is not the final syllable, it is marked with an acute accent: á, é, í, ó, ú, ý. That is, stress falls on the vowel marked as nasalized, if any, else on the accent-marked syllable, and if neither appears, then on the final syllable.\n\nFor blind people there is also a Guarani Braille.\n\nGuarani only allows syllables consisting of a consonant plus a vowel or a vowel alone; syllables ending in a consonant or two or more consonants together are not possible. This is represented as \"(C)V(V)\".\n\n\nConsonants:\n\nIPA value is shown. The orthography is shown in angle brackets below, if different.\n\nThe voiced consonants have oral allophones (left) before oral vowels, and nasal allophones (right) before nasal vowels. The oral allophones of the voiced stops are prenasalized.\n\nThere is also a sequence (written ). A trill (written ), and the consonants , , and (written ) are not native to Guarani, but come from Spanish.\n\nOral is often pronounced , depending on the dialect, but the nasal allophone is always .\n\nThe dorsal fricative is in free variation between and .\n\n, are approximants, not fricatives, but are sometimes transcribed , as is conventional for Spanish. is also transcribed , which is essentially identical to .\n\nAll syllables are open, viz. CV or V, ending in a vowel.\n\nThe glottal stop is only written between vowels, but occurs phonetically before vowel-initial words. Because of this, Ayala (2000:19) shows that some words have several glottal stops near each other, which consequently undergo a number of different dissimilation techniques. For example, \"I drink water\" \"'a'u'y\" is pronounced \"hau'y\". This suggests that even irregular verbs in Guarani are regular underlyingly. There also seems to be some degree of variation between how much the glottal stop is dropped (for example \"aru'uka\" > \"aruuka\" > \"aruka\" for \"I bring\"). It is suspected that the glottal stop was not an original phoneme but that word-internal glottal stops are only fossilized compounds where the second component was a vowel-initial (and therefore glottal stop–initial) root.\n\nGuarani displays an unusual degree of nasal harmony. A nasal syllable consists of a nasal vowel, and if the consonant is voiced, it takes its nasal allophone. If a stressed syllable is nasal, the nasality spreads in \"both\" directions until it bumps up against a stressed syllable that is oral. This includes affixes, postpositions, and compounding. Voiceless consonants do not have nasal allophones, but they do not interrupt the spread of nasality.\n\nFor example,\n\nHowever, a second stressed syllable, with an oral vowel, will not become nasalized:\n\nThat is, for a word with a single stressed vowel, all voiced segments will be either oral or nasal, while voiceless consonants are unaffected, as in oral vs nasal .\n\nGuaraní is a highly agglutinative language, often classified as polysynthetic. It is a fluid-S type active language, and it has been classified as a 6th class language in Milewski's typology. It uses subject–verb–object word order usually, but object–verb when the subject is not specified.\n\nThe language lacks gender and has no definite article, but due to influence from Spanish, la is used as a definite article for singular reference, and lo for plural reference. These are not found in Classical Guarani (\"Guaraniete\").\n\nGuarani exhibits nominal tense: past, expressed with \"-kue\", and future, expressed with \"-rã\". For example, \"tetã ruvichakue\" translates to \"ex-president\" while \"tetã ruvicharã\" translates to \"president-elect.\" The past morpheme \"-kue\" is often translated as \"ex-\", \"former\", \"abandoned\", \"what was once\", or \"one-time\". These morphemes can even be combined to express the idea of something that was going to be but didn't end up happening. So for example, \"pa'irãgue\" is \"a person who studied to be a priest but didn't actually finish\", or rather, \"the ex-future priest\". Note that some nouns use \"-re\" instead of \"-kue\" and others use \"-guã\" instead of \"-rã\".\n\nGuarani distinguishes between inclusive and exclusive pronouns of the first person plural.\n\nReflexive pronoun: \"je\": \"ahecha\" (\"I look\"), \"ajehecha\" (\"I look at myself\")\n\nGuarani stems can be divided into a number of conjugation classes, which are called \"areal\" (with the subclass \"aireal\") and \"chendal\". The names for these classes stem from the names of the prefixes for 1st and 2nd person singular.\n\nThe areal conjugation is used to convey that the participant is actively involved, whereas the chendal conjugation is used to convey that the participant is the undergoer. Note that intransitive verbs can take either conjugation, transitive verbs normally take areal, but can take chendal for habitual readings. Nouns can also be conjugated, but only as chendal. This conveys a predicative possessive reading.\n\nFurthermore, the conjugations vary slightly according to the stem being oral or nasal.\n\nVerb root \"ñe'ẽ\" (\"speak\"); nasal verb.\nNegation is indicated by a circumfix \"n(d)(V)-...-(r)i\" in Guarani. The preverbal portion of the circumfix is \"nd-\" for oral bases and\" n-\" for nasal bases. For 2nd person singular, an epenthetic \"e\" is inserted before the base, for 1st person plural inclusive, an epenthetic \"a\" is inserted.\n\nThe postverbal portion is \"-ri\" for bases ending in \"-i\", and \"-i\" for all others. However, in spoken Guarani, the \"-ri\" portion of the circumfix is frequently omitted for bases ending in \"-i\".\n\nThe negation can be used in all tenses, but for future or irrealis reference, the normal tense marking is replaced by \"mo'ã\", resulting in \"n(d)\"(V)\"-base-mo'ã-i\" as in \"Ndajapomo'ãi\", \"I won't do it\".\n\nThere are also other negatives, such as: \"ani\", \"ỹhỹ\", \"nahániri\", \"naumbre\", \"na<nowiki>'</nowiki>anga\".\n\nThe verb form without suffixes at all is a present somewhat aorist: \"Upe ára resẽ reho mombyry\", \"that day you got out and you went far\".\nThese two suffixes can be added together: \"ahátama\", \"I'm already going\".\nThis suffix can be joined with \"ma\", making up \"páma\": \"ñande jaikuaapáma nde remimo'ã\", \"now we became to know all your thought\".\nThese are unstressed suffixes: \"ta\", \"ma\", \"ne\", \"vo\", \"mi\"; so the stress goes upon the last syllable of the verb or the last stressed syllable.\n\n\nThe close and prolonged contact Spanish and Guarani have experienced has resulted in many Guarani words of Spanish origin. Many of these loans were for things or concepts unknown to the New World prior to Spanish colonization. Examples are seen below:\n\nEnglish has adopted a small number of words from Guarani (or perhaps the related Tupi) via Portuguese, mostly the names of animals. \"Jaguar\" comes from \"jaguarete\" (literally dog body) and \"piranha\" comes from \"pira aña\" (evil fish). Other words are: \"agouti\" from \"akuti\" (hot nose), \"tapir\" from \"tapira\" (always ahead), \"açaí\" from \"ïwasa'i\" (\"[fruit that] cries or expels water\"), and \"warrah\" from \"aguará\" meaning \"fox\". Ipecacuanha (the name of a medicinal drug) comes from a homonymous Tupi-Guaraní name that can be rendered as \"ipe-kaa-guene\", meaning a creeping plant that makes one vomit.\n\nThe name of Paraguay is itself a Guarani word, as is the name of Uruguay. However, the exact meaning of either placename is up to varied interpretations. (\"See\": List of country-name etymologies.)\n\n\"Cougar\" is borrowed from the archaic Portuguese çuçuarana; the term was either originally derived from the Tupi language \"susua'rana\", meaning \"similar to deer (in hair color)\" or from the Guaraní language term \"guaçu ara\" while \"puma\" comes from the Peruvian Quechua language.\n\nArticle 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Guarani:\n\n\"Mayma yvypóra ou ko yvy ári iñapyty'yre ha eteĩcha tekoruvicharenda ha akatúape jeguerekópe; ha ikatu rupi oikuaa añetéva ha añete'yva, iporãva ha ivaíva, tekotevẽ pehenguéicha oiko oñondivekuéra.\"\n\nThe New Testament was translated from Greek into Guaraní by Dr John William Lindsay (1875-1946), who was a Scottish medical missionary based in Belen, Paraguay. The New Testament was printed by the British and Foreign Bible Society in 1913. It is believed to be the first New Testament translated into any South American indigenous language.\n\nA more modern translation of the whole Bible into Guarani is known as \"Ñandejara Ñe'ẽ\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35510339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35510339", "title": "Hagop Oshagan", "text": "Hagop Oshagan\n\nHagop Oshagan (; December 9, 1883 in Soloz, Bursa – February 17, 1948 in Aleppo), was an Armenian writer, playwright, and novelist. Among his many novels are the trilogy \"To One Hundred and One Years\" (Հարիւր մէկ տարուան), \"The Harlot\" (Ծակ պտուկը), and his best-known work, \"Remnants\" (Մնացորդաց, 3 vols., 1932-1934), parts of which have been translated into English by G.M.Goshgarian.\n\nOshagan was born in 1883 as Hagop Kufejian in Soloz, a village near Bursa. Oshagan was spared the fate of many of his fellow writers and was able to elude the Turkish secret police until early 1918, when he fled from Constantinople to Bulgaria, disguised as a German officer. After the armistice, he returned to Constantinople in 1919, where he adopted his literary surname, and taught literature, actively participating in the literary activities of the Armenian community. At the end of 1922, as many other Armenian intellectuals, he left Constantinople permanently after the arrival of the Kemalist forces. He lived for a brief time in Plovdiv, Bulgaria, and then worked as an instructor of Armenian literature in Egypt (1924-1928), Cyprus (1928-1935), and Palestine (1935-1948), where he forged a reputation as a charismatic educator and prolific writer of fiction, drama, and literary criticism. He died while on a visit to Aleppo, on the eve of a planned visit to Deir ez-Zor, where hundreds of thousands of Armenians had perished during the Armenian Genocide.\n\nThe genocide of the Armenians defined Oshagan's larger project — the literary reconstruction of the lost ancestral homeland. He wrote his major works in exile. He devoted his knowledge of Armenian literature, his intimate experience of village life and of Turkish-Armenian relations to this project.\n\nHis output as a literary critic and historian is grounded in the monumental \"Panorama of Armenian Literature\" (Համապատկեր արեւմտահայ գրականութեան, 10 vols., 1945-1982), which has been used as a textbook in Armenian high schools. He is also the author of shorter, book-length volumes of literary studies.\n\nHis son Vahé Oshagan (1921-2000) followed in his father's footsteps. A poet, short story author, novelist, essayist, and literary scholar, he was one of the most important writers and public intellectuals of the Armenian disapora.\n\n"}
{"id": "24588706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24588706", "title": "Hunor Kelemen", "text": "Hunor Kelemen\n\nHunor Kelemen (born 18 October 1967, Cârţa) is a Romanian politician and Hungarian language writer. The current president of the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania (UDMR), he has been a member of the Romanian Chamber of Deputies since 2000, and was nominated as his party's candidate for the 2009 presidential election, receiving 3.8% of the valid votes. From December 2009 to May 2012 he was Romania's Minister of Culture in the Emil Boc and Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu governments, a role he has reprised between March and October 2014 in the government headed by Victor Ponta.\n\nIn 2000, Hunor Kelemen was awarded the Order of the Star of Romania, Commander rank, and in 2008 Hungary's Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit. In 2012, he married Eva Czezar; the civil ceremony took place at Cârţa Town Hall, while the religious wedding was held at St. Michael's Church in Cluj-Napoca.\n\nAn ethnic Hungarian, he was born in Cârţa, at that time part of the Magyar Autonomous Region. He completed primary school in Ineu-Ciuc, and the gymnasium in his native locality, while practising ice hockey in the school's team. After completing high school in Târgu Mureş, he enrolled in the University of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Medicine of Cluj-Napoca, graduating as a veterinarian in 1993, and then in the Faculty of Philosophy of the Babeş-Bolyai University, graduating in 1998.\n\nFollowing the Revolutions of 1989, Hunor Kelemen was one of the founders of the Hungarian language cultural magazines \"Jelenlét\" and later became deputy editor in chief. After 1993 he also collaborated with the Hungarian language magazine \"Korunk\", and between 1990 and 1997 he was editor of cultural and political shows for the Radio Cluj, part of the Romanian Radio Broadcasting Company. In 1995 Hunor Kelemen published his first poetry volume in Hungarian language, \"Mínuszévek\", for which he was awarded the Debut Prize of the Writers' Union of Romania in 1996. He further published a novel, \"A madárijesztők halála\" (\"The scarecrow's death\"), in 1999, and a second poetry volume, \"A szigetlakó\" (\"The islander\"), in 2001, both in Hungarian language.\n\nKelemen entered politics in 1997, when he was appointed as Secretary of State from the UDMR in the Romanian government's Ministry of Culture. He held this post until 2000, when he was elected in the lower house of the Romanian Parliament on the UDMR list. He was re-elected in 2004 and in 2008, obtaining over 50% of the votes in his electoral college in the latter elections. \n\nIn June 2009, the UDMR Council of the Union Representatives voted Hunor Kelemen as candidate for the office of President of Romania in that year's November elections. On this occasion Kelemen declared his program will include a proposal for Hungarian ethnic autonomy, in a way \"that would not upset the Romanian ethnics\". In July, at a summer camp organised by the UDMR at Băile Tuşnad, he acknowledged that, as a Hungarian ethnic, he had no chance to win, but he presented the motives that led to his candidature: the desire of the Hungarian community of Romania to have a candidate of its own, the need to fill the traditional Hungarian segment in Romanian politics, and the need to present the message of the Hungarian minority to the Romanian majority. He received 372,764 votes (3.83% of the ballot). He performed better in the regions with important Hungarian communities, winning a majority in the counties of Harghita (71.2%) and Covasna (52.8%), and the second place in Mureş and Satu Mare.\n\nOn December 20, 2009, Emil Boc, nominated as prime-minister by the re-elected Traian Băsescu, proposed Hunor Kelemen as the Minister of Culture in the PDL-UDMR coalition government. The proposal was met with strong protests by PDL vice-president Cezar Preda, who declared that his party made the \"greatest political mistake of the last years\". Following unofficial protests from the Patriarch of the Romanian Orthodox Church, the Religious Affairs, previously subordinated to the Ministry of Culture, were put under the direct control of the prime-minister. Reportedly, the Orthodox Church was dissatisfied with being subordinated to a minister of a different denomination. The cabinet was approved by the Parliament on December 23, 2009.\n\nKelemen left government in May 2012 when the Răzvan Ungureanu government lost a vote of confidence and was replaced by one led by Victor Ponta. \n\n"}
{"id": "5620900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5620900", "title": "Ideal speech situation", "text": "Ideal speech situation\n\nAn ideal speech situation was a term introduced in the early philosophy of Jürgen Habermas. It argues that an ideal speech situation is found when communication between individuals is governed by basic, implied rules. In an ideal speech situation, participants would be able to evaluate each other’s assertions solely on the basis of reason and evidence in an atmosphere completely free of any nonrational “coercive” influences, including both physical and psychological coercion. Furthermore, all participants would be motivated solely by the desire to obtain a rational consensus.\nMembers of the public sphere must adhere to certain rules for an \"ideal speech situation\" to occur. They are:\n\n1. Every subject with the competence to speak and act is allowed to take part in a discourse.\n\n2a. Everyone is allowed to question any assertion whatever.\n\n2b. Everyone is allowed to introduce any assertion whatever into the discourse.\n\n2c. Everyone is allowed to express their attitudes, desires and needs without any hesitation.\n\n3. No speaker may be prevented, by internal or external coercion, from exercising his rights as laid down in (1) and (2)\nThe concept of the ideal speech situation came under attack in the 1970s by theorists who persistently relativized the concept, arguing that any \"particular\" conception of an ideal speech situation could not be proven completely correct, so that any (still-unknown) gaps would allow associated oppressions to arise or persist.\n\nHabermas responded to this in 1983 with \"Moral Consciousness and Communicative Action\" (English trans. 1990). In this work he no longer spoke of a known ideal speech situation but instead of a new moral system (\"Discourse ethics\") that could be derived from the \"presuppositions of argumentation\". These in turn could \"initially\" be postulated by philosophical analysis in the same way that Immanuel Kant tried to justify his own moral system through transcendental arguments. However, in contradistinction to Kant, Habermas recognizes that the presuppositions of argumentation can be tested in practice by a device he terms \"performative contradiction\". If critics object to the presuppositions of argumentation, their argument \"might\" be turned on them to demonstrate that their argument has already granted the existence of whatever specific presupposition of argument they object to. However, if such a performative contradiction cannot be found, then the presuppositions of argumentation must be revised to take account of the criticism and the moral system derived from these presuppositions altered accordingly. In other words, \"performative contradiction\" is not a trump card to dismiss all objections but a fair test of those objections. The dialectical nature of Habermas's argument often goes unrecognized.\n\nThe ideal speech situation, in its assumption of literal rather than figurative language function (language \"below\" rather than \"above\" the context-forming horizon of the lifeworld), is taken as the model for formal pragmatic analysis of speech-acts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16925581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925581", "title": "Institute for Macedonian language \"Krste Misirkov\"", "text": "Institute for Macedonian language \"Krste Misirkov\"\n\nThe Institute for Macedonian language \"Krste Misirkov\" (, \"Institut za makedonski jazik „Krste Misirkov“\") is the regulatory body of the Macedonian language and is a part of Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje, Macedonia. The institute was established in March 1953 in order to standardise the Macedonian language and to organise creative potentials in the sphere of Macedonian studies. It is also used to ensure professional training and improvement towards those teaching the language. It was then that the Act of the Ministry of Education of the Government of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia for transforming the Department of the Macedonian Language and Literature at the Institute of Folklore into an autonomous Institute of the Macedonian Language was empowered. At first the Institute functioned as a component part of the Faculty of Philosophy, but soon it turned into a separate scholarly institution with independent financing.\n\nToday, the Institute, consists of 5 scientific and scholarly departments:\n\nResearch fellows from the department of the history of the Macedonian language have been working on the Dictionary of Church-Slavonic project; research fellows from the department of the contemporary Macedonian language have been working on the Intentional Syntax Dictionary of Macedonian Verbs project; research fellows from the department of dialectology have been working on the Macedonian Dialect Atlas; research fellows from the department of Macedonian lexicology and lexicography have been working on the Interpretative Dictionary of the Macedonian Language project and on the subproject Dictionary of Macedonian Folk Poetry; research fellows from the department of onomastics have been working on the Dictionary of Macedonian Family Names project.\n\nAt present, the scientific and research activities of the Institute are carried by 33 researchers, 6 of whom are research advisers, 1 senior research fellow, 1 research fellow, 6 assistants, 9 researchers and 9 junior researchers. 9 of them are doctors of science and 15 are masters of science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5469849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5469849", "title": "Juvenilia", "text": "Juvenilia\n\nJuvenilia are literary, musical or artistic works produced by an author during their youth. Written juvenilia, if published at all, usually appear as a retrospective publication, some time after the author has become well known for later works.\n\nThe term was first recorded in 1622 in George Wither's poetry collection \"Ivvenilia\". Later, other notable poets, such as John Dryden and Alfred Lord Tennyson, came to use the term for collections of their early poetry. The stories and poems which novelist Jane Austen wrote between the ages of eleven (or possibly younger) and eighteen are called her Juvenilia. \n\nExceptions to retrospective publication include Leigh Hunt's collection \"Juvenilia\", first published when he was still in his teens; and Lord Byron's publication of \"Fugitive Pieces\" when the author was only 17 years old, and his subsequent publication of \"Hours of Idleness\" at the age of 18. In these early pieces, Byron explores many of the themes that would shape his later works.\n"}
{"id": "35705421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35705421", "title": "Kaning'i language", "text": "Kaning'i language\n\nKaningi (Kaning'i) is a Bantu language spoken in Gabon. Speakers live in villages scattered among other peoples; the Bongo pygmies speak a distinct dialect.\n"}
{"id": "1757782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1757782", "title": "Kipsigis language", "text": "Kipsigis language\n\nKipsigis (or Kipsikii, Kipsikiis) is part of the Kenyan Kalenjin dialect cluster, It is spoken mainly in the Kericho district of the Rift Valley Province in Kenya. The Kipsigis people are the most numerous tribe of the Kalenjin in Kenya, accounting for 60% of all Kalenjin speakers. Kipsigis is closely related to Nandi, Keiyo (Keyo, Elgeyo), South Tugen (Tuken), and Cherangany. \n\nThe Kipsigis territory is bordered to the south and southeast by the Maasai. To the west, Gusii (a Bantu language) is spoken. To the north-east, other Kalenjin people are found, mainly the Nandi. East from the Kipsigis, in the Mau forests, live some Okiek speaking tribes.\n"}
{"id": "4234773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4234773", "title": "Kissi language", "text": "Kissi language\n\nKissi (or Kisi) is a Mel language of West Africa, closely related to Temne of Sierra Leone. There are two dialects, northern and southern, and both are tonal languages. The northern dialect is spoken in Guinea and in Sierra Leone. In its northern form, it often uses loanwords from the Malinke and the Mende languages. The southern dialect is spoken in Liberia and Sierra Leone. The two dialects are notably different, but are closely related.\n\nIn Guinea, the main places Kissi is spoken are the cities of Kissidougou and Guéckédou and their préfectures.\n\nKissidougou dialects preserve a distinction between /r/ and /l/ phonemes that have been merged as allophones in dialects south of Guéckédou. For instance, \"la huŋ\" means exactly the same as \"ra huŋ\". Also, \"Thank you\" is realized as \"barika\" around Kissidougou and \"balika\" south of Guéckédou.\n\nThe voiced labial-velar stop /gb/ occurs only in onomatopoeic phrases, and medial gb can be regarded as an allophone of its voiceless counterpart.\n\n\nKissi has four tones: two register and two contour, the contour tones being derived from level tones. The two register tones are level and high, and the two contour tones are a rising mid tone and the a falling high tone. Unusually for a Niger-Congo language, Kissi has an extra-high tone, but occurs only sparingly, functioning in only a few grammatical contexts.\n\nAs you can already see from these examples, verbs aren't conjugated like English verbs, but they are inflected by tone.\n\nDefinite and indefinite articles do not exist in Kissi, so \"muɛi\" means \"the knife\" as well as \"a knife\".\nIf an object has to be defined (because there are more than one, for example), \"this\" is used:\n\nexample: muɛi coŋ - this knife\n\nIf that is not exact enough, an object is described using adjectives.\n\nyɔŋgu ya muɛi. / k'ya muɛi. - Give me a/the knife.\n\nyɔŋgu ya muɛi bɛndɛi. / k'ya muɛi bɛndɛi. - Give me the big knife.\n\nSofɛlɔ dimi ni, a, I yema mi kɔɛnnuŋ yondo niŋ, mi simi tyɛiyo loŋ. Mo kɔa o tyeo kɔli. Mo fɛya nyɔ loŋ.\n\nO koŋ mi sulukuo dimi, a, I yema mi kɔ baŋ tyɛiyo tye. Mo hun, o koloma nɛ sofɛlɔ fɛya a. Mo dimi, a, Fonda ho naŋ. A wɛlɛ, Hala mara ya fɔfɔ mi koloma fonda kɛndɔ. O koŋ mo linda puruo, mo kɔa.\n\nMi sofɛlɔ hun. Mo dimi, a, Hala tyo ya mara tau. O koŋ mi ndu tam gbilikio. Mo kɔa.\n\nMi sulukuo hun, mo koloma gbilikio, mo mel Hara baraka. Mo simi tyɛiyo, mo kɔa.\n\nMi sofɛlɔ hun, mo koloma tyɛiyo isisi, mi ndu mel Hala baraka. Ma tosa haa mi tyɛiyo tyu.\n\nO koŋ mi sulukuo hun ityɔllo nda wɛin ndɔ. Ma hini. O koŋ kɔli, mi sofɛlɔ hun wɛlɛ nda wɛin ndɔ, ma hini. Mi nda gbou a daunuŋ kɔndɔfili tau.\n\nMi sulukuo dimul sofɛlɔ, a, N kɔ dosoleŋ. Mi sofɛlɔ dimi, a, Ya i nɔra wisio diyɔ re, fɔ le tyua. Mi sulukuo dimi, a, Ya i nɔra tyua re, kɔnɔ i nɔra diyɔ. O koŋ ma bɛnda, ma kɔa. Tuma nda tye wisio o, mi sulukuo di ndu, kɔnɔ o nɔra ndu tyua re. Mi sofɛlɔ kɔ tyua ndu, ma hun tyɛi niŋ.\n\nIdio mi sulukuo dimul wɛin ndɔ, a, Fura, n kɔ, katu laŋgbɔnɔ hɔ nɔra worɔ tau, loŋ o tyua na. Ma fura, ma kɔannuŋ.\n\nO koŋ kɔli wɛlɛ, mi sofɛlɔ dimul wɛin ndɔ, a, N kɔnnuŋ, katu laŋgbɔnɔ ho nɔ yomuaŋ tau, loŋ o di na. Ma fura, ma kɔannuŋ.\n\nO koŋ mi tyɛiyo lo fondo. Wana-wana sora tɔnɔ leniŋ te.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69022", "title": "Kálmán Kalocsay", "text": "Kálmán Kalocsay\n\nKálmán Kalocsay (; 6 October 1891 in Abaújszántó – 27 February 1976) was a Hungarian Esperantist poet, translator and editor who considerably influenced Esperanto culture, both in its literature and in the language itself, through his original poetry and his translations of literary works from his native Hungarian and other languages of Europe. His name is sometimes Esperantized as Kolomano Kaloĉajo, and some of his work was published under various pseudonyms, including \"C.E.R. Bumy, Kopar, Alex Kay, K. Stelov, Malice Pik\" and \"Peter Peneter\".\n\nKalocsay studied medicine and later became a surgeon and the chief infectious disease specialist at a major Budapest hospital. He learned both Esperanto and its breakaway dialect Ido in his adolescence but became more inclined towards Esperanto after he had seen its greater literary potential. In 1921 his first original collection of poems, \"Mondo kaj Koro\" (“World and heart”) was published. A further decade passed before the appearance of his collection \"Streĉita Kordo\" (“A taut string”), which many Esperantists consider as one of the finest collections of original Esperanto poetry, and \"Rimportretoj\" (“Portraits in rhyme”), witty poems in rondel style about various people then prominent in the Esperanto movement. In 1932, under the pseudonym Peter Peneter, he published \"Sekretaj Sonetoj\" (“Secret sonnets”), a book of erotic verse.\n\nKalocsay guided the Esperanto literary world through the magazine and publishing house called \"Literaturo Mondo\" (“Literary world”). A group of writers who coalesced around this magazine during the 1920s and 1930s was known as the \"Budapeŝto skolo\" (“Budapest school”).\n\nWorks of Kalocsay about literary and linguistic theory include the expansive \"Plena Gramatiko de Esperanto\" (“Complete grammar of Esperanto”) and \"Parnasa Gvidlibro\" (“Handbook of Parnassus”), a work on Esperanto poetics co-authored with Gaston Waringhien, and an academic style guide for Esperanto, \"Lingvo – Stilo – Formo\" (“Language, style and form”). Kalocsay also co-compiled the two-volume \"Enciklopedio de Esperanto\" (“Encyclopædia of Esperanto”).\n\nMuch was written about Kalocsay by his literary executor Ada Csiszár, after whose death the estate passed to the Esperanto museum of the Austrian National Library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8929623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8929623", "title": "Languages of Greece", "text": "Languages of Greece\n\nThe official language of Greece is Greek, spoken by 99% of the population. In addition, a number of non-official, minority languages and some Greek dialects are spoken as well. The most common foreign languages learned by Greeks are English, German, French and Italian.\n\nModern Greek (Νεοελληνική γλώσσα) is the only official language of the Hellenic Republic, and is spoken by some 99.5% of the population — about 11,100,000 people (though not necessarily as a first language). Standard Modern Greek is the officially used standard, but there are several non-official dialects and distinct Hellenic languages spoken as well. Regional spoken dialects exist side by side with learned, archaic written forms. All surviving forms of modern Greek, except the Tsakonian language, are descendants of the common supra-regional (\"koiné\") as it was spoken in late antiquity. As such, they can ultimately be classified as descendants of Attic Greek, the dialect spoken in and around Athens in the classical era. Tsakonian, an isolated dialect spoken today by a dwindling community in the Peloponnese, is a descendant of the ancient Doric dialect. Some other dialects have preserved elements of various ancient non-Attic dialects, but Attic Koine is nevertheless regarded by most scholars as the principal source of all of them.\n\nCappadocian Greek (Καππαδοκικά) is a Hellenic language originally spoken in Cappadocia and since the 1920s spoken in Greece. It has very few speakers and was previously thought to be extinct. The Cappadocians rapidly shifted to Standard Modern Greek and their language was thought to be extinct since the 1960s.\n\nCretan Greek is spoken by more than 500,000 people on the island of Crete, as well as in the Greek Diaspora. It is rarely used in written language, and differs much less from Standard Greek than other varieties. The Cretan dialect is spoken by the majority of the Cretan Greeks in the island of Crete, as well as by several thousand Cretans who have settled in major Greek cities, notably in Athens, and in areas settled by Ottoman-era Cretan Greek Muslims (the so-called Cretan Turks), such as the town of Al-Hamidiyah in Syria.\n\nCypriot Greek (Κυπριακή διάλεκτος) is spoken by Greek Cypriots, settled in many Greek cities, and in many other parts of the world including Australia, Canada and the Americans.\n\nThe Maniot Greek dialect (Μανιάτικη διάλεκτος) of the local area of Mani.\n\nPontic Greek (Ποντιακή διάλεκτος) is a Hellenic language originally spoken in Pontus and by Caucasus Greeks in the South Caucasus region, although now mostly spoken in Greece by some 500,000 people. The linguistic lineage of Pontic Greek stems from Ionic Greek via Koine and Byzantine Greek\n\nAn archaic dialect of Greek spoken by the Sarakatsani of Greek Macedonia and elsewhere in Northern Greece, a traditionally transhument, clan-based community of mountain shepherds.\n\nThe little-spoken Tsakonian language (Τσακωνική διάλεκτος) is used by some in the Tsakonia region of Peloponnese. The language is split into three dialects: Northern, Southern, and Propontis. The language is spoken by 1,200 people.\n\nA Jewish dialect of Greek (Ρωμανιώτικη διάλεκτος) spoken by the Romaniotes, Yevanic is almost completely extinct today. There are a total of roughly 50 speakers, around 35 of whom now reside in Israel. The language may still be used by some elderly Romaniotes in Ioannina.\n\nGreek Sign Language (Ελληνική Νοηματική Γλώσσα) is the sign language of the Greek deaf community. It has been legally recognised as the official language of the Deaf Community in Greece and is estimated to be used by about 42,000 signers (12,000 children and 30,000 active adult users) in 1986.\n\nSince the 1990s, large numbers of Albanian immigrants have arrived in Greece, forming the largest immigrant group (443,550 in the 2001 census). \n\nUnlike the recent immigrants from Albania, the Arvanites are a centuries-old local Albanian-speaking community in parts of Greece (and mainland Albania), especially in the south. Their language, now in danger of extinction, is known as Arvanitika. Their number has been estimated as between 30,000 and 140,000. Many have been assimilated into modern Greek culture.\n\nOf the 35,000 Armenians in Greece today, some 20,000 speak the language.\n\nThe Aromanians, also known as Vlachs, are a population group linguistically related to Romanians. The Aromanian, an Eastern Romance language, is spoken by the some 40,000 Aromanians in Greece.\n\nMegleno-Romanian is a Romance language spoken in Greece and Macedonia. There are roughly 2,500 speakers in Greece.\n\nIn Greece, Slavic dialects heteronomous with standard Macedonian is spoken; however, the speakers do not all identify their language with their national identity. The 1951 census recorded 41,017 Macedonian speaking Greek citizens (most of them bilingual). These Macedonian speakers in Greece vary on how they describe their language - most describe it as \"Macedonian\" and proclaim an Ethnic Macedonian national identity, although there are smaller groups, some of which describe it as \"Slavic\" and espouse a Greek national identity. Some historicals consider the local Macedonian dialect as a Bulgarian dialect. Some prefer to identify as \"dopii\" and their dialect as \"dopia\" which mean \"local\" or \"indigenous\" in Greek.\n\nIn addition to the above, there are an estimated 30,000 native speakers of Bulgarian in Western Thrace according to Ethnologue, where it is referred to as \"Pomak\".\n\nLadino, the Judeo-Spanish language, was traditionally spoken by the Sephardic community in Greece, particularly in the city of Thessaloniki, where, at their peak percentage, they made up 56% of the population. However, many of Greece's Jews were murdered in World War II, and a large number emigrated to Israel after 1948. It is maintained today by between 2,000 and 8,000 people in Greece.\n\nIn the population of 200,000 to 300,000 Roma, or Gypsy, people in Greece today, the Romani language is spoken widely. Romani is an Indo-Aryan language similar to many Indian languages, due to the origins of the Roma people in northern India. The dialect spoken in Greece (as well as in Bulgaria, Albania, the Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Serbia, Romania, parts of Turkey, and Ukraine) is known as Balkan Romani. There are 160,000 Romani speakers in Greece today (90% of the Roma population).\n\nRussian has become widely spoken in Greece, particularly in Greek Macedonia and other parts of Northern Greece, mainly by wealthy Russians settled in Greece and Russian speaking economic migrants who went there in the 1990s. Russian is also spoken as a second or third language by many Georgians and Pontic Greeks from Georgia, Ukraine, and Russia who settled in Greece in large numbers in the same period. The older generation of Caucasus Greeks settled mainly in Salonika, Kilkis and elsewhere in Central Macedonia in circa 1920 also speak Russian as a second language, as do most Greeks who had settled in Czechoslovakia, the USSR, and other Eastern Bloc states following the Greek Civil War, returning to Greece mainly in the early 1990s.\n\nTurkish is one of the most widely spoken minority languages in Greece today, with a speaker population of 128,380 people. These are usually defined as Western Thrace Turks. Traditionally, there were many more Turkish speakers in Greece, due to the long period of rule by the Ottoman Empire, but after the exchange of populations between Greece and Turkey, a much smaller number remain, with even Turkish speaking Greek Muslims forcibly expatriated to Turkey in 1923. The Turkish-speaking population of Greece is mainly concentrated in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace. Turkish speakers also make up a large part of Greece's Muslim minority.\n\nThis refers to the hybrid Greco-Turkish dialect spoken by the so-called Urums or those who define themselves as Greek from the Tsalka (mainly Pontians) region of central Georgia and also to the Greco-Tatar dialect spoken by ethnic Greeks in Ukraine and the Crimea. Most speakers of Urum now live in mainly Northern Greece, having left Georgia in the 1990s, although many of those from Crimea and southeastern Ukraine are still living in these areas.\n\nGeorgian is widely spoken particularly in Salonika and other parts of Greek Macedonia by economic migrants who settled in Greece in the 1990s. As well as ethnic Georgians, these include those defined as Caucasus Greeks or ethnic Greeks in Georgia, from especially the south of the country and the Tsalka region in the centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "3002347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3002347", "title": "Languages of Kenya", "text": "Languages of Kenya\n\nKenya is a multilingual country. The Bantu Swahili language and English, the latter being inherited from colonial rule (\"see British Kenya\"), are widely spoken as lingua franca. They serve as the two official working languages. Including second-language speakers, there are more speakers of Swahili than English in Kenya.\n\nAccording to \"Ethnologue\", there are a total of 68 languages spoken in Kenya. This variety is a reflection of the country's diverse population that includes most major ethnoracial and linguistic groups found in Africa (see Languages of Africa).\n\nMost languages spoken locally belong to two broad language families: Niger-Congo (Bantu branch) and Nilo-Saharan (Nilotic branch), spoken by the country's Bantu and Nilotic populations, respectively. The Cushitic and Arab ethnic minorities speak languages belonging to the separate Afroasiatic family, with the Hindustani and British residents speaking languages from the Indo-European family.\n\nKenya's various ethnic groups typically speak their mother tongues within their own communities. The two official languages, English and Swahili, are used in varying degrees of fluency for communication with other populations. English is widely spoken in commerce, schooling and government. Peri-urban and rural dwellers are less multilingual, with many in rural areas speaking only their native languages.\n\nSIL Ethnologue (2009) reports the largest communities of native speakers in Kenya as follows:\n\n\nLanguages spoken by the country's ethnic minorities include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1648186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1648186", "title": "Lusitanian language", "text": "Lusitanian language\n\nLusitanian (so named after the Lusitani or Lusitanians) was an Indo-European Paleohispanic language. There has been support for either a connection with the ancient Italic languages or Celtic languages. It is known from only five sizeable inscriptions, dated from circa 1 CE, and numerous names of places (toponyms) and of gods (theonyms). The language was spoken in the territory inhabited by Lusitanian tribes, from the Douro to the Tagus rivers, territory that nowadays falls in central Portugal and western Spain.\n\nLusitanian is an Indo-European language but it was quite different from the Hispano-Celtic languages of the Iberian Peninsula. The specific language-group classification of Lusitanian remains inconclusive. It is not considered a Celtic language under existing definitions of linguistic Celticity because the Lusitanian inscriptions found, retain Indo-European \"p\" in positions where Celtic languages would not, most unambiguously in PORCOM 'pig' in one inscription, PORGOM in another, a feature considered non-Celtic. Prósper, in her Lusitanian etymologies (2002; 2008), demonstrates that not only does Lusitanian not agree closely with the usual Celtic reflexes but that it is closer to Ligurian Italic. This suggests there may have been two well-differentiated branches of Indo-European in the Iberian Peninsula before the Romans, with Lusitanian belonging to the non-Celtic branch. Villar and Pedrero (2001) connect Lusitanian with ancient Ligurian. They base their finding on parallels in the names of deities and some lexical items (e.g., the similarity of Umbrian \"gomia\" and Lusitanian \"comaiam\"), and some grammatical elements. This once again, raises more questions about the relation of the Lusitanian language with Celtic, because the ancient Ligurian language, in many ways like Lusitanian; is considered Celtic by some and non-Celtic by others. Adding to lack of evidence and its geographical location, it has not been yet determined whether Lusitanian was part of the Ligurian language sub-group, Celtic or Celticised, or an even older Indo-European language. Prósper also sees Lusitanian as predating the introduction of Celtic and shows that it retains elements of Old European, making its origins possibly even older.\n\nOn the other hand, Koch says there is no unambiguous example of the reflexes of the Indo-European syllabic resonants and the voiced aspirate stops . Additionally, names in the inscriptions can be read as Celtic, such as AMBATVS, CAELOBRIGOI and VENDICVS. Dagmar Wodtko argues that it is hard to identify Lusitanian personal or place-names that are not Celtic. Furthermore, some argue that the \"p-\" in PORCOM does not alone mark Lusitanian as not Celtic, and that it could be classed as a Celtic dialect, but one that preserved Indo-European (or possibly an already phonetically weakened , written P as an archaism). This is based largely on numerous Celtic personal, deity, and place names.\nLusitanian possibly shows from Indo-European in PVMPI, pronominal PVPPID from , and PETRANIOI derived from 'four', but that is a feature found in many Indo-European languages from various branches (including P-Celtic), and by itself, it has no bearing on the question of whether Lusitanian is Celtic. Bua Carballo suggests that pairings on different inscriptions such as \"Proeneiaeco\" and \"Proinei\" versus \"Broeneiae\", and \"Lapoena\" versus \"Laboena\", may cast doubt on the presence of a P sound in Lusitanian. Some scholars have proposed that it may be a para-Celtic language, which evolved alongside Celtic or formed a dialect continuum or sprachbund with Tartessian and Gallaecian. This is tied to a theory of an Iberian origin for the Celtic languages.: It is also possible that the Q-Celtic languages alone, including Goidelic, originated in western Iberia (a theory that was first put forward by Edward Lhuyd in 1707) or shared a common linguistic ancestor with Lusitanian. Secondary evidence for this hypothesis has been found in research by biological scientists, who have identified (firstly) deep-rooted similarities in human DNA found precisely in both the former Lusitania and Ireland, and; (secondly) the so-called \"Lusitanian distribution\" of animals and plants unique to western Iberia and Ireland.\nBoth of these phenomena are now generally believed to have resulted from human emigration from Iberia to Ireland, during the late Paleolithic or early Mesolithic eras.\n\nInscriptions have been found Cabeço das Fragas (in Guarda), in Moledo (Viseu), in Arroyo de la Luz (in Cáceres) and most recently in Ribeira da Venda. Taking into account Lusitanian theonyms, anthroponyms and toponyms, the Lusitanian sphere would include modern northeastern Portugal and adjacent areas in Spain, with the centre in Serra da Estrela.\n\nThe most famous inscriptions are those from Cabeço das Fráguas and Lamas de Moledo in Portugal, and Arroyo de la Luz in Spain. Ribeira da Venda is the most recently discovered (2008).\n\nAll the known inscriptions are written in the Latin alphabet. It is difficult to determine if the letters have a different pronunciation than the Latin values, but the frequent alternations of \"c\" with \"g\" (\"porcom\" vs. \"porgom\") and \"t\" with \"d\" (\"ifadem\" vs. \"ifate\"), and the frequent loss of \"g\" between vowels points to a lenis pronunciation compared to Latin. In particular, between vowels and after \"r\", \"b\" may have represented the sound /β/, and correspondingly \"g\" was written for /ɣ/, and \"d\" for /ð/.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26209097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26209097", "title": "Malathi Rao", "text": "Malathi Rao\n\nMalathi Rao () is an Indian writer. She won the Central Sahitya Akademi award for her English language novel \"Disorderly Women\" in 2007.\n\nMalathi Rao was born (April 1930) in Bangalore, Karnataka to Chennagiri Padmanabha Rao and Smt. Padmavathi. She is the eldest of five sisters. She has an older brother and two younger brothers. As a young girl, Rao was inspired by the works of Jane Austen, the Brontë sisters and Louisa May Alcott among others. She always had a penchant for writing and pursued English Literature at Bangalore and Mysore Universities. She epitomized the new generation of her time, as a highly educated independent working woman. \nShe was an English Lecturer in Vijaya College, Bangalore and the legendary Prof.V.T.Srinivasan was principal and Head of the department in the college.\nRao spent a major part of her teaching career in Delhi. She taught English literature at Miranda House, Delhi University. Highly respected and loved by her peers and students alike, Delhi was her home until she moved back to Bangalore in the mid-nineties. Once in Bangalore, she concentrated on her writing career.\n\nRao enjoys traveling and has traveled all over the world. She currently lives in Bangalore.\n\nMalathi Rao has written three novels, three collections of short stories and authored several newspaper articles. \"The Bridge,\" \"...And in Benares flows the Ganga,\" and \"Come for a Coffee... Please,\" are among her well-known works.\n\nShe rose to prominence with her novel 'Disorderly Women' published in 2007. She won the Sahitya Akademi Award presented to by the Hon. President of India. \"Disorderly Women\" is a story of four Brahmin women in India (pre-independence) who struggle to break the barriers built around them by society.\n\nRao's next novel is eagerly-awaited and is expected to be published in 2013. It is currently titled \"Inquisition\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16305887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16305887", "title": "Malayalam Wikipedia", "text": "Malayalam Wikipedia\n\nThe Malayalam Wikipedia () is the Malayalam edition of Wikipedia, a free and publicly editable online encyclopedia, and was launched on December 21, 2002. The project is the leading Wikipedia among other South East Asian language Wikipedias in various quality matrices. It has grown to be a wiki containing more than 58,000 articles .\n\nMalayalam language Wikipedia is available in the wikipedia.org domain from 2002 December 21. User had taken initiatives for it. For the two years following its creation, he had been the key person striving to keep the wiki active. Almost all the early users of Malayalam Wikipedia were non-resident Malayalees. The growth of the Wikipedia during these times was heavily constrained due to OS and browser related issues, rendering issues, Unicode related issues, and so on.\n\nBy the middle of 2002, unicode and input tools had become popular. Blogging in Malayalam became widespread. Wikipedians started to use these tools and the Wikipedia reached 100 articles by December 2004. More users joined by the middle of 2005 and the wiki had its first sysop by September 2005. He became the first bureaucrat of the wiki after a month and the wiki became self-sufficient in terms of administration.\n\nThe year 2006 saw a number of users joining the wiki, following the widespread usage of Malayalam computing tools. 500th article was born on April 10, 2006; the following September the article count reached 1000. On January 15, 2007, this became 2000 and on June 30 it became 3000.\n\nThe first major Media coverage about the Malayalam Wikipedia was on September 2, 2007, when Malayalam daily newspaper \"Mathrubhumi\" covered Malayalam Wikipedia project extensively in its Sunday Supplement. This generated significant interest in the Wikipedia project and large number of users joined the project and started to contribute. The subsequent growth was exponential.\n\nWhile the article count increased, extreme care was taken to maintain the quality of articles. The page depth of the wiki remains high at 301 (). When the Wikipedia crossed 10,000 articles on June 1, a number of print and online newspapers covered the story.\nRecently, a Malayalam newspaper 'Madhyamam' spent an editorial for the contributors of Malayalam Wikipedia. The mobile version of the Malayalam Wikipedia was launched on February 2010.\n\nAlthough many Malayalam Unicode fonts are available for old and new Malayalam lipi, most users opt for fonts like AnjaliOldLipi, Rachana and Meera which follows the traditional Malayalam writing style. Early editors adopted specialized Malayalam Unicode input tools based on the \"Varamozhi keyboard\", a phonetic transliteration device. The project has an inbuilt input tool integrated to it. Malayam is now losing its speaker base because all of its potential native speakers is using English as a medium of communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35181360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35181360", "title": "Maritsauá language", "text": "Maritsauá language\n\nMaritsauá (Manitsawá) is an extinct Tupian language of the state of Mato Grosso, in the Amazon region of Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "35961290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35961290", "title": "Mizo grammar", "text": "Mizo grammar\n\nMizo grammar is the grammar of the Mizo language, a Tibeto-Burman language spoken by about a million people in Mizoram, Manipur, Tripura, Burma and Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangladesh. It is a highly inflected language, with fairly complex noun phrase structure and word modifications. Nouns and pronouns are declined, and phrasal nouns also undergo an analogous declension.\n\nMizo declarative word order is Object-subject-verb, as in:\nThere is no grammatical gender in Mizo language, although some animals, birds etc. have names which contain one of the suffixes \"-nu\", which means \"female\", or \"-pa\" which means \"male\". Examples include \"chingpirinu\" (a type of big owl), \"kawrnu\" (a type of cicada), \"thangfènpa\" (a nocturnal bird).\n\nMizo is an agglutinative language in which it is rare to find morphologically simple, non-derived nouns. However, common everyday objects and domestic animals tend to fall in this category, that is, the category of morphologically simple, non-derived nouns. For example,\nThe most common form of noun is that of derived, morphologically complex, poly-syllabic nouns. Most abstract nouns belong to this category, and so do wild animals and other less common objects. Examples include\nNouns are pluralised by the addition of one of the suffixes \"-te\", \"-ho\", \"-teho\" and \"-hote\". However, a non-pluralised noun can have the sense of a pluralised noun, and common nouns are usually not pluralised, as in:\n\nHere \"sava\" is not pluralised to \"savate\" or \"savaho\"; rather, \"sava\" functions as a plural.\n\nNouns are declined into cases as follows (here we show the tones in accordance with the usage in Mizo Wiktionary, which is an extension of the common usage in Mizo newspapers such as Vanglaini and monthlies such as \"Lengzem chanchinbu\"):\nProper nouns are also declined in the same manner:\nVerbs and adjectives are nominalised by suffixing \"-na\", and adjectives can also be nominalised by suffixing \"-zia\". For example:\n\nWhen \"-na\" is suffixed to a transitive verb then the resulting noun means either \"the instrument with which the action described by the verb is achieved\", or \"the object/sufferer of the action\" or \"the point of action of the verb\". For example, \"vùa\" means \"to beat/strike with a stick\", and \"vûakna\" means \"a whip\", \"an object with which one can beat\", or \"a point or place where the beating takes place\", \"a point where something is beaten\".\n\nWhen \"-na\" is suffixed to an intransitive verb, then the resulting noun means \"a place etc. through which the action can take place\". For example, \"kal\" means \"to go\", \"kalna\" means \"where something/someone goes or can go\", \"way\", \"path\". For example:\nWhen \"-zia\" is suffixed to an adjective, the resulting noun means \"the condition of having the quality described by the adjective\". For example, \"süal\" means \"evil\", \"sùalzìa\"' means \"sinfulness\", \"evilness\".\n\nThe suffix \"-tu\" in Mizo ṭawng is equivalent to the suffix \"-er\" or \"-or\" in English, as in:\n\nAll Mizo pronouns occur in two forms, namely in free form and clitic form:\nThe free form is mostly used for emphasis, and has to be used in conjunction with either the clitic form or an appropriate pronominal particle, as shown in the following examples:\n\nThe clitic form is also used as a genitive form of the pronoun.\n\nMizo pronouns, like Mizo nouns, are declined into cases as follows:\n\nMizo adjectives (Mizo: \"hrilhfiahna\"), when used attributively, follow the nouns they describe, as follows:\nWhen used predicatively, Mizo adjectives are syntactically verbs, being usually preceded by the subject pronoun clitics, as in:\n\nIn these two sentences, \"a\" is the subject pronoun clitic, and the adjectives \"fel\" and \"ṭha\" function as verbs (syntactically).\n\nWhen adjectives follow each other, the preferred order is the following:\nas in\n\nThe most common quantifiers in Mizo ṭawng are \"zawng zawng\" (all/each and every), \"ṭhenkhat\" (some [of a whole]), \"väi\" (all/every), \"zà\" (all/every). Some examples are given below:\n\nVerbs (Mizo: thiltih) and verb phrases occur last in a sentence. Since adjectives can function as verbs, it is common in sentences to have no true verb, as in:\nIn these two sentences, the adjectives \"fel\" and \"dik\" function syntactically as verbs, and there are no other verbs in either of them.\n\nMizo verbs are not conjugated by changing the desinence. The tense is clarified by the \"aspect\" and the addition of conjugating particles, such as\netc.\n\nAdverbs usually follow the verbs or adjectives they describe.\n"}
{"id": "40460028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40460028", "title": "Nellai S. Muthu", "text": "Nellai S. Muthu\n\nNellai S. Muthu (born May 10, 1951) is Tamil writer and a scientist working at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre. He has written many technical books and novels based on science in Tamil. He has won several awards from the Tamil development department of Tamil Nadu for his works \"Vinveli 2057\", \"Arivutom vingana vilaiyattu\", \"Einsteinum andaveliyum\" and \"Ariviyal varalaru\"\n\nMuthu received an award from the government of India's National Council for Science and Technology in 2004 for making science accessible to the public through his books, magazine contributions, and other media. He received the Mahakavi Bharathi Aiynthamizh award in the Ariviyal Tamil category from Bharathiar University. He also received the Pal Maruthuvar G. Sitrambalanar award for his work \"Evurthiyiyal\".\n"}
{"id": "797938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797938", "title": "Noric language", "text": "Noric language\n\nThe Noric language, or Eastern Celtic, is an unclassified Continental Celtic language. It is attested in only two fragmentary inscriptions from the Roman province of Noricum (one in Grafenstein, Austria, the other in Ptuj, Slovenia), which do not provide enough information for any conclusions about the nature of the language to be drawn. However, the language was probably similar to the other Celtic languages near to it, such as Gaulish. Due to the scanty evidence it is unknown when it became extinct.\n\nThe Ptuj inscription, discovered in 1894, is written right to left in a northern Italic alphabet and reads:\n\nThis is interpreted as two personal names: \"Artebudz\" [son] of \"Brogduos\". The name \"Artebudz\" may mean \"bear penis\" (compare Welsh \"bear\" and Irish \"penis\"), while \"Brogduos\" may contain the element \"brog-, mrog-\" \"country\" (compare Welsh \"region, country\"). Alternatively, the inscription may be interpreted as \"Artebudz\" [made this] for \"Brogdos\", with the second name in the dative case.\n\nThe Grafenstein inscription, on a tile from the 2nd century AD that was discovered in a gravel pit in 1977, is incomplete, but the extant part has been transcribed as follows:\nHere, \"Moge\" seems to be a personal name or an abbreviation of one, \"P· II- lav\" a Latin abbreviation indicating a weight, \"ne sadiíes\" a verbal form possibly meaning \"you (singular) do not set\", \"ollo so\" perhaps \"this amount\", and \"Lugnu\" another personal name. The text may therefore be a record of some sort of financial transaction.\n\nOther readings of the inscription have also been proposed, including:\nand\n"}
{"id": "660237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660237", "title": "Phallogocentrism", "text": "Phallogocentrism\n\nIn critical theory and deconstruction, phallogocentrism is a neologism coined by Jacques Derrida to refer to the privileging of the masculine (phallus) in the construction of meaning. The word is a portmanteau of the older terms \"phallocentrism\" (focusing on the masculine point of view) and \"logocentrism\" (focusing on language in assigning meaning to the world).\n\nDerrida and others identified phonocentrism, or the prioritizing of speech over writing, as an integral part of phallogocentrism. Derrida explored this idea in his essay \"Plato's Pharmacy\".\n\nIn contemporary literary and philosophical works concerned with gender, the term \"phallogocentrism\" is commonplace largely as a result of the writings of Jacques Derrida, the founder of the philosophy of deconstruction, which is considered by many academics to constitute an essential part of the discourse of postmodernism. Deconstruction is a philosophy of \"indeterminateness\" and its opposing philosophy, \"determinateness\". According to deconstruction, indeterminate knowledge is \"aporetic\", i.e., based on contradictory facts or ideas (\"aporias\") that make it impossible to determine matters of truth with any degree of certitude; determinate knowledge, on the other hand, is \"apodictic\", i.e., based on facts or ideas that are considered to be \"true\", from one perspective or another.\n\nThe phallogocentric argument is premised on the claim that modern Western culture has been, and continues to be, both culturally and intellectually subjugated by \"logocentrism\" and \"phallocentrism\". Logocentrism is the term Derrida uses to refer to the philosophy of determinateness, while phallocentrism is the term he uses to describe the way logocentrism itself has been genderized by a \"masculinist (phallic)\" and \"patriarchal\" agenda. Hence, Derrida intentionally merges the two terms phallocentrism and logocentrism as \"phallogocentrism\".\n\nThe French feminist thinkers of the school of écriture féminine also share Derrida's phallogocentric reading of 'all of Western metaphysics'. For example, Catherine Clément and Hélène Cixous in \"The Newly Born Woman\" (1975) decry the \"dual, hierarchical oppositions\" set up by the traditional phallogocentric philosophy of determinateness, wherein \"death is always at work\" as \"the premise of woman's abasement\", woman who has been \"colonized\" by phallogocentric thinking. According to Cixous and Clément, the 'crumbling' of this way of thinking will take place through a Derridean-inspired, anti-phallo/logocentric philosophy of indeterminateness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16971044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16971044", "title": "Physiographic province", "text": "Physiographic province\n\nA physiographic province is a geographic region with a characteristic geomorphology, and often specific subsurface rock type or structural elements. \n\nThe continents are subdivided into various physiographic provinces, each having a specific character, relief, and environment which contributes to its uniqueness. The physiographic provinces are then subdivided into smaller physiographic sections.\n\nIn eastern North America, the Atlantic Coastal Plain, Piedmont, Blue Ridge Mountains, Ridge-and-Valley Appalachians, and Appalachian Plateau are specific physiographic provinces.\n\nIn the Western United States of western North America: the Basin and Range Province, Cascade Range, Colorado Plateau, Rio Grande rift, Great Basin, Central Valley (California), Peninsular Ranges, Los Angeles Basin, and Transverse Ranges are physiographic province examples.\n\n"}
{"id": "37720517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37720517", "title": "Potin", "text": "Potin\n\nPotin (also known as billon) is a base metal silver-like alloy used in coins. It is typically a mixture of copper, tin and lead (in varying proportions) and it is debated whether any actual silver needs to be present. While the term \"billon\" is more commonly applied to ancient Roman coinage, \"potin\" is usually used for Greek or Celtic coinage.\n\nIn 1890, so-called \"Potin lumps\" were found, of which the largest weighs at the Prehistoric pile dwelling settlement \"Alpenquai\" in Zürich (\"Vicus Turicum\") in Switzerland. The pieces consist of a large number of fused Celtic coins, which are mixed with charcoal remnants. Some of the about 18,000 coins originate from the \"Eastern Gaul\", and others are of the \"Zürich\" type, that were assigned to the local \"Helvetii\", which date to around 100 BC. The find is so far unique, and the scientific research assumes that the melting down of the lump was not completed, therefore the aim was to form cult offerings. The site of the find was at that time at least from the lake shore, and probably to deep in the water.\n\nKentish cast bronzes (historically referred to as Thurrock potins) appear to have been the first coins made in Britain dating from the end of the second century BC. They appear to have circulated mainly in Kent and were based on coins issued by Massalia (now Marseille).\n"}
{"id": "534671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=534671", "title": "Proclamation Day", "text": "Proclamation Day\n\nProclamation Day is the name of official or unofficial holidays or other anniversaries which commemorate or mark an important proclamation. In some cases it may be the day of, or the anniversary of, the proclamation of a monarch's accession to the throne. A proclamation day may also celebrate the independence of a country, the end of a war, or the ratification of an important treaty.\n\nProclamation Day in South Australia celebrates the establishment of government in South Australia as a British province. The province itself was officially created and proclaimed in 1834 when the British Parliament passed the South Australia Act, which empowered King William IV to create South Australia as a British province and to provide for its colonisation and government. It was ratified 19 February 1836 when King William issued Letters Patent establishing the province. The proclamation announcing the establishment of Government was made by Captain John Hindmarsh beside The Old Gum Tree at the present-day suburb of Glenelg North on 28 December 1836. The proclamation specified the same protection under the law for the local native population as for the settlers. The date 28 December as a public holiday in South Australia was modified to the first working day after the Christmas Day public holiday (i.e. usually 26 December). Formal ceremonies involving the most senior current officials and politicians, followed by public celebrations, continue to be held at the still-extant Old Gum Tree at Glenelg North on 28 December.\n\nThe proclamation was drafted aboard by Hindmarsh's private secretary, George Stevenson, and printed by Robert Thomas (1782–1860), who came from England with his family on \"Africaine\", arriving at Holdfast Bay on 8 November 1836. Thomas brought with him the first printing press to reach South Australia. The press was a Stanhope Invenit No. 200, and was on display in the State Library until 2001. It may be surmised that, from the quilled text of the proclamation provided to him by the officials, it was Thomas himself who made a more striking layout for print, later most familiar to the public.\n\nThe colonising fleet prior to \"Buffalo\" consisted of 8 vessels which had first arrived at Nepean Bay on Kangaroo Island before being directed to Holdfast Bay on the mainland. The first vessel to arrive at Nepean Bay was \"Duke of York\" on 27 July 1836 which did not proceed to Holdfast Bay but instead set off on a whaling expedition. \"Africaine\" was the seventh to arrive to arrive at Nepean Bay (4 Nov 1836), discharging settlers at Holdfast Bay on 9 November 1836. Seven of these earlier ships preceded Governor John Hindmarsh on \"Buffalo\" to enable preparations in advance of his formal arrival on 28 December.\n\nThomas's wife Mary (1787–1875) published \"The Diary of Mary Thomas\", in which she described the journey on \"Africaine\" and the early years in South Australia. An extract from the diary reads:\nOne of the children of Robert and Mary Thomas was a surveyor who assisted Colonel William Light in the survey which led to the founding of the City of Adelaide. Another son, William Kyffin Thomas, inherited from his father the newspaper of the time, \"The Register\", which his parents had set up. William had a son, also called Robert, who became senior proprietor of \"The Register\". He was knighted by King Edward VII in 1909 when President of the first great Press Conference in London. A majestic statue of that king stands prominently outside the South Australian Institute building in North Terrace, Adelaide.\n\nIn 1876 Parliament decreed that the Proclamation Day holiday, a gala occasion when thousands descended on Glenelg, would henceforth be celebrated on 27 December in lieu of the 28th, in order to make a three-day Christmas holiday. H. J Moseley, proprietor of the Glenelg's Pier Hotel, was the first and loudest protester against the move which was rescinded.\n\nProclamation Day also refers to 21 October 1890, the day that Western Australia achieved self-government, with its own constitution and self-elected parliament.\n\nProclamation Day was originally a public holiday, but its significance was overshadowed by the celebrations of the Eight Hours Day, which were held on the same day, and by 1919 the public holiday had been replaced by Labour Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "11418268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11418268", "title": "Questioning (sexuality and gender)", "text": "Questioning (sexuality and gender)\n\nThe questioning of one's gender, sexual identity, sexual orientation, or all three is a process of exploration by people who may be unsure, still exploring, and concerned about applying a social label to themselves for various reasons. The letter \"Q\" is sometimes added to the end of the acronym LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender); the \"Q\" can refer to either queer or questioning.\n\nDuring the stage of adolescence, the notions of questioning one's sexuality or gender, along with the diverse areas related to it, can arise as the construction of identity begins to form. It is a stage where exploration, learning and experimenting often occurs. While some youths have little to no issue in self-identifying, many youths encounter a great deal of confusion and uncertainty at this stage. They may have issues in understanding their sexuality, sexual orientation, gender identity, or whether or not they fit into any preconceived social normative labels. Studies have shown that 57% of people first had questioning thoughts on their sexuality or gender between the ages of 11 and 15.\n\nThe American Psychological Association states:Adolescence can be a period of experimentation, and many youths may question their sexual feelings. Becoming aware of sexual feelings is a normal developmental task of adolescence. Sometimes adolescents have same-sex feelings or experiences that cause confusion about their sexual orientation. This confusion appears to decline over time, with different outcomes for different individuals.Gender, sexual orientation or sexuality does not always coincide with each other; meaning for example, if an individual identifies themselves as a heterosexual, they may not only be attracted to someone of the opposite sex and have sexual interactions with someone who is of the same sex without necessarily identifying themselves as bisexual. The importance in understanding that one does not need to apply any type of gender or sexuality label to oneself is more publicly and socially promoted in the modern day, along with gender and sexual fluidity, which is also more openly discussed and widely accepted in today's society. The individuals who do not identify themselves as either male, female, transgender, heterosexual, homosexual, bisexual or feel their sexuality is fluid, refer to themselves as gender neutral, genderqueer or agender.\n\nAccording to the \"International Journal of Choice Theory & Reality Therapy\", the ways in which humans behave are based on five basic needs: survival, love and belonging, power, freedom and enjoyment. An individual will shift their behaviors in order to satisfy these needs. In the case of questioning youth, some or all of these needs are not met. When one or more of these needs are not fulfilled, their behaviors may become aggravated, confused or discouraged in trying to satisfy the need to either survive, feel loved or that they belong, achieve freedom, gain power or feel a sense of enjoyment.\n\nGender identity is crucial in the development of a young individual as it is a big part of their personal social identity. The confusion and questioning involved in one's formation of gender identity can be influenced by the need to fit into gender binaries or adhere to social ideals constructed by mainstream society. The assigned sex of a person at birth, otherwise known as natal sex, is not always interchangeable with the terms \"gender identity\" and \"gender role\". According to the Family Process Institute, Natal sex and gender identity are, however, different components of identity, and gender identity does not necessarily unfold in the direction of one's natal sex. Gender identity is not the same as gender role; gender identity is a core sense of self, whereas gender role involves the adaptation of socially constructed markers (clothing, mannerism, behaviours) traditionally thought of as masculine and feminine. Natal sex, gender identity, and gender role interact in complex ways and each of these is also separate from the direction of one's sexual attraction. The social constructs of masculinity and femininity may also play as a factor in causing confusion for youths; it may impact the way they feel they have to behave if they identify with certain gender identities or sexual orientations.\n\nThe awareness of sexual orientation strongly contributes to the formulation of gender identity. The two are equally important in contributing to the development of an individual during the adolescent stage. The questioning of a young individual's sexuality or sexual orientation comes into play in a variety of situations; regardless of experience or lack thereof. For example, an individual who generally identifies themselves as homosexual may also have sexual interactions with the opposite sex, but do not necessarily feel that they are bisexual. Furthermore, an individual may also identify with a definitive sexual orientation or gender without having any, or only some sexual interactions or experiences.\n\nThe social aspect is a significant factor that can cause questioning youth to feel they have an unsafe environment in establishing their sexuality or gender. The need for social acceptance by their peers and other members of society during adolescence gives the individual the feeling of belonging; therefore, the fear of rejection or discrimination can keep youths from being public with their uncertain identity.\n\nHeteronormativity can contribute to the hesitation of youths in being public with their gender identity and sexuality. This can be due to the fact that one may feel they do not fit with the social constructs of heterosexuality, masculinity or femininity - which are ideals that do not necessarily include the exceptions and differences of other genders and sexualities. According to \"The Journal of Psychology\", \"Misunderstanding and fear of the unknown are likely the main influencers of the controversy around gender acceptance. As a sense of belonging is one of the five basic needs, the individual may fear transitioning to another gender causing an inner conflict.\" The social construct of heteronormativity is directly related to gender binary; these two constructs are often conditioned in the mainstream to be more accepted, therefore impacting the acceptance of other genders and sexualities, ones that may not fit into those norms or are fluid between multiple categories.\n\nSome youths avoid coming out or even acknowledging their sexual orientation because of homophobia. Acknowledging their lesbian, gay or bisexual identity, or other identity, can bring an end to confusion. With regard to gender identity, terms for those who do not comply to the gender binary system are, for example, \"genderqueer\", \"agender\", or \"gender neutral\". \"The Journal of Counselling & Development\" states, \"Sexual minorities experience two types of stigma stress that differ based on the objective and subjective nature of stress. Because of its persistent nature, stigma stress can be characterized as a chronic stressor that sexual minorities face, placing them at higher risk than individuals who are not sexual minorities of developing a ruminative coping style.\" When an individual feels that none of the existing gender identity terms apply to them, or that they do not fit accurately into any binaries, it may often lead to feelings of pressure, loneliness, abnormality and hopelessness.\n\nAccording to The American Psychological Association, those who struggle with acknowledging their sexuality or gender identity may be at higher risk of experiencing suicidal thoughts, depression, unprotected sex or turning to harmful coping mechanisms such as drug abuse, alcohol or self harm. Studies show that questioning youth are at higher risk for victimization, suicidal thoughts, and drug and alcohol abuse even more so than lesbian, gay and bisexual youth, possibly due to marginalization from straight and LGB peers alike.\n\nThe Advocates for Youth Organization states that \"studies establish links between attempting suicide and gender nonconformity, early awareness of sexual orientation, stress, violence, lack of support, school dropout, family problems, homelessness, and substance use.\" For questioning adolescent individuals, not only is the acceptance from their peers important to them, the acceptance of their family is also equally as important. However, not all youths receive the support they require from their families during the process of questioning. Ryan C. et al., of San Francisco State University state, \"GLBTQ youth with more rejecting families are eight times more likely to report having attempted suicide, nearly six more times as likely to report high levels of depression, more than three times as likely to use illegal drugs, and three times as likely to be at high risk for HIV and sexually transmitted diseases than GLBTQ youth with less rejecting families.\" The social community is a crucial aspect in contributing to the wellness of one's being and mental health. Individuals often feel more positive about their sexual orientation and gender identity through support and positive reinforcement, especially from family, friends, and acquaintances.\n\nAdolescents who are questioning and receive support can often live satisfying and healthy lives and move through the usual process of adolescent development; those who face bullying, ostracism or other forms of oppression are more likely to be at risk of experiencing suicidal thoughts, and to engage in high-risk activities, such as unprotected sex and alcohol and drug abuse. Questioning youth are at higher risk for victimization, suicidal thoughts, and drug and alcohol abuse even more so than lesbian, gay and bisexual youth, possibly due to marginalization from straight and LGB peers alike. A disorder of anxiety or depression related to an uncertainty about one's gender identity or sexual orientation has been classified as sexual maturation disorder by the World Health Organization in the ICD-10, under \"Psychological and behavioural disorders associated with sexual development and orientation\". Sexual orientation by itself is not a disorder and is not classified under this heading. It also differs from ego-dystonic sexual orientation where the sexual orientation or gender identity is repressed or denied.\n\nMany LGBT student groups and literature include \"questioning\"; in the case of gay–straight alliance groups, they do so in part so students are not compelled to label themselves or choose a sexual identity. The pressures, stigmas and fear of discrimination by peers and society, may discourage many to face the problems developed through questioning gender and sexuality. The support of friends and family is important during the stage of adolescence as it is the time where one is developing their identity and experiencing the most change physically and mentally. The LGBTQ community has formed many support groups, help centers and online spaces that can assist youths who seek guidance and provide helpful information in regards to one's questioning of gender and sexuality. It is suggested by psychology practitioners for questioning individuals to seek help through platforms such as therapy, support groups, online community forums, mental health organizations, suicide prevention lifelines and counseling.\n\nAn example of a national organization dedicated to providing crisis intervention, support and suicide prevention services for LGBTQ youths is The Trevor Project. They provide services such as Trevor Lifeline, TrevorChat, TrevorText and Trevor Support Centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30991271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991271", "title": "Rennellese Sign Language", "text": "Rennellese Sign Language\n\nRennellese Sign Language is an extinct form of home sign documented from Rennell Island in 1974. It was developed about 1915 by a deaf person named Kagobai and used by his hearing family and friends, but apparently died with him; he was the only deaf person on the island, and there never was an established, self-replicating community of signers. Accordingly, in January 2017 its ISO 639-3 code [rsi] was retired.\n\nWittmann (1991) proposed that RSL was a language isolate (a 'prototype' sign language), though one developed through stimulus diffusion from an existing sign language. However, his classification presupposes that it was a full language, which is almost certainly not the case, and Kuschel (the only source of information about this communication system) cites no evidence to suggest that there was any contact with any sign language.\n"}
{"id": "3705902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3705902", "title": "Rojen Barnas", "text": "Rojen Barnas\n\nRojen Barnas is the pen name of Mehmet Gemici (born 1945), a contemporary Kurdish poet and writer. He was born in the Diyarbakır region in south-eastern Turkey. He became active in Kurdish politics in the 1970s. He has made his home in Sweden since 1981. He started publishing a Kurdish magazine called ' in the 1970s. He has also published articles in other Kurdish journals such as ' and \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16191792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191792", "title": "Sa'idi Arabic", "text": "Sa'idi Arabic\n\nṢa‘īdi Arabic (, , ), also known as Upper Egyptian Arabic, is a variety of Arabic spoken by the Ṣa‘īdi people south of Cairo, Egypt, to the border of Sudan. It shares linguistic features with both Egyptian Arabic and the Quran's Classical Arabic. Dialects include Middle and Upper Egyptian Arabic.\n\nSpeakers of Egyptian Arabic do not always understand more conservative varieties of Ṣa‘īdi Arabic.\n\nṢa‘īdi Arabic carries little prestige nationally, but it continues to be widely spoken, including in the north by rural migrants who have partially adapted to Egyptian Arabic. For example, the Ṣa‘īdi genitive exponent is usually replaced with Egyptian \"bitāʿ\", but the realisation of as is retained (normally realised in Egyptian Arabic as ).\n\nSecond- and third-generation Ṣa‘īdi migrants are monolingual in Egyptian Arabic but maintain cultural and family ties to the south.\n\nThe Egyptian poet Abdel Rahman el-Abnudi wrote in his native Sa'idi.\n\nṢa‘īdi Arabic has the following consonants:\n\n"}
{"id": "35259557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35259557", "title": "Wancho language", "text": "Wancho language\n\nWancho is a Konyak language of north-eastern India. Wancho is spoken in 36 villages of southeastern Longding district, Tirap district, Arunachal Pradesh, as well as in Assam and Nagaland (\"Ethnologue\"). Alternate names include \nBanpara Naga, Joboka, Jokoba.\n\nWancho is spoken by the Wancho people who have a population of 56,866 according to a 2011 consensus, and mainly populate the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh. Although a minority, these inhabitants have a rich culture with rituals, ceremonial practices, religion, and various dialects of Wancho.\n\n\"Ethnologue\" lists the following dialects of Wancho.\n\n\nThere is significant variation among the dialects spoken in the upper and lower regions. \n\nWancho is generally written in either Devanagari or Latin script.\nBetween 2001 and 2012 teacher Banwang Losu devised a unique alphabetic script for Wancho which is taught in some schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "10502214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10502214", "title": "Xakriabá language", "text": "Xakriabá language\n\nXakriabá (also written Chakriaba, Chikriaba, Shacriaba) is an extinct Ge language formerly spoken in Minas Gerais, Brazil by the Xakriabá people, who today speak Portuguese.\n\nThe last confirmed native speaker of the language died in 1864.\n"}
