{"id": "54581486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54581486", "title": "Advanced nuclear", "text": "Advanced nuclear\n\nAdvanced nuclear is an emerging area of the energy industry focused on designing and commercializing next generation reactors for nuclear energy production. Encompassing more comprehensive and radical technological innovations and design advancements, these innovations aim to dramatically improve performance and eliminate known problems associated with the existing generation nuclear reactors (Gen I and Gen II) currently in use around the world.\n\nThe earliest Gen I and Gen II nuclear reactors built utilized the light-water reactor design in one of three variants: the pressurized water reactor (PWR), the boiling water reactor (BWR), and the supercritical water reactor (SCWR). The use of the light-water design (i.e. using regular water, HO and not heavy water, HO) as both its coolant and neutron moderator but needing a plentiful supply) in all commercial reactors was a trade-off that enabled the industry to leverage the purchasing clout of Admiral Hyman G. Rickover, who was keen on procuring nuclear-powered submarines for the Navy, to grow quickly. The choice, however, imposed a riskier design that many argued was not optimized for terrestrial energy, bringing both competitive advantages as well as fateful disadvantages to the initial development and subsequent growth of the commercial nuclear power fleet. Despite operating to the military's exacting specifications and winning praise and massive contracts from government buyers, the industry quickly earned the distrust of the public. (See the Anti-nuclear movement.)\n\nGeneration III reactors contain yet further incremental refinements to aspects of Generation II nuclear reactor designs but were not very popular. Improvements were developed for fuel technology, thermal efficiency, to safety systems to reduce maintenance and capital costs. The first Generation III reactor was Kashiwazaki 6 (an ABWR) in 1996 but the declining support for the underlying Generation II light-water design, caused relatively few third generation reactors to be built. \n\nGeneration IV designs are the first generation where innovator in Advanced Nuclear technologies are exploring paradigm shifts in methodologies. Gen IV projects encompass not just innovative nuclear fission concepts, like the Molten salt reactor, Liquid Metal Fast Breeder Reactors, and High temperature gas cooled reactors, but also Fusion power and even Low Energy Nuclear Reactors (LENR), which generate heat through a series of controlled chemical reactions that then cause a nuclear bond to shift, which results in heat output. Gen IV is still in development as of 2017, and are not expected to start entering commercial operation until after 2020.\n\nSome of the different reactor design ideas being explored and developed for Advanced nuclear reactors, now thought of as Generation IV reactors (Gen IV) today were actually first conceived within the National Labs back in the 1960s. Several of these concepts, including Alvin M. Weinberg's Molten salt reactor (MSR) developed at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), even had the benefit of being prototyped and tested over a period of time. Weinberg's MSR became the first reactor to run on Uranium 233 in 1968 and logged more than 13,000 hours at \"full power\" before being shut down in 1969. Today, the concept of using a molten salt brew that acts both as the fuel and the \"containment\" of the reaction by using the ionic bonds of the salt to capture and contain the heat generated from the nuclear reaction, thereby dispensing with the need for expensive containment structures and eliminating much of risk and cost, remains of keen interest to those exploring Advanced nuclear technologies.\n\nIn November 2015, the Obama White House hosted a Summit on Nuclear Energy to examine the role of nuclear energy in reducing carbon emissions as part of its efforts to combat the threat of climate change. January 2016, the first \"Advanced Nuclear Summit and Showcase\" was held in Washington, D.C., hosted by Third Way, in partnership with the Idaho National Laboratory (INL), Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), and Oak Ridge National Laboratory. This event was also attended by a bi-partisan group of senators—Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Mike Crapo (R-ID) and Cory Booker (D-NJ)—along with representatives from more than 150 organizations to show support for advancing nuclear innovation in the U.S. According to Third Way, Advanced Nuclear technologies are developing more rapidly than most experts expected and, as of 2015, there were 48 companies, start-ups or projects with funding of more than $1.3 billion in private capital working to \"build the next generation of nuclear reactors.\" Much like the growth in technological innovation in other parts of the energy industry, which has seen the emergence of hydraulic fracturing as a means of extracting methane from shale formations where previously it was unavailable and improvements in solar panel efficiency and wind turbine efficiency, there's been a resurgence of interest in nuclear from younger engineers, physics Ph.Ds and investors seeking scale-level solutions to meeting global energy need with non-carbon-emitting energy. (See for example Transatomic Power, whose website says \"We at Transatomic Power are nuclear engineers with a new approach for electricity generation. We started this company because we believe it is possible to power the world while helping it thrive.\")\n\nDespite the reported $1.3 billion in private funding, in fact experts worry that the lack of federal support for nuclear innovation in the U.S., means that most of the critical design and development work in Advanced Nuclear reactors is now being done in India, Russia, China, Canada, France, Japan, Korea and even Saudi Arabia, where in 2010 a royal decree said: \"The development of atomic energy is essential to meet the Kingdom's growing requirements for energy to generate electricity, produce desalinated water and reduce reliance on depleting hydrocarbon resources.\" Saudi Arabia will be investing $80 billion in nuclear development over the next decade or two. India, Russia and China have all made enormous investments in support of their country's nuclear energy capabilities and, in 1983 Russia became the first country to put a Molten Salt Reactor, the BN-600 reactor online, which it did without much fanfare in the aftermath of its Chernobyl disaster. India, which \"published about twice the number of papers on thorium as its nearest competitors, during each of the years from 2002 to 2006\" is expected to complete the world's first Advanced Thorium Molten Salt Reactor in late 2017, even while it is already in the process of building the next six reactors taking the advances even further, and hopes to provide as much as 25% of its future electricity needs with clean advanced nuclear energy, utilizing its abundant thorium reserves.\n\nNot to be outdone, China plans to spend $570 billion building more than 60 nuclear power plants over the next decade, with a portion of this to develop its Advanced Nuclear capabilities, positioning itself to be the \"Amazon.com\" of nuclear commerce, according to Kenneth Luongo, president of the Partnership for Global Security. A study by the Global Nexus Initiative (GNI) found that, with the U.S. practically ignoring the needs of those working on Advanced Nuclear, the U.S. will lose significant competitive advantage within the energy industry as well as forego geopolitical influence by allowing its nuclear power industry to stagnate and fall behind, even while fossil fuels become increasingly supplanted by clean alternatives. Richard Meserve, former Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and a member of the GNI study working group, said: “This report draws attention to nuclear power’s geopolitical dimension, which often is overlooked in the debate. The nuclear rules are shaped by the countries with the largest market share, and traditional leaders like the US will soon be overtaken by China and Russia. There is a danger that the U.S. will lose the capacity to influence the global norms for safety, security and non-proliferation. There thus are national security issues at stake.”\n\nDespite having funded the birth of nuclear age, the U.S. has not chosen to fund the refining work needed to optimize nuclear reactors for terrestrial energy. Into this void, the Generation IV International Forum, founded in 2001, has stepped, as \"a co-operative international endeavor . . . to carry out the research and development needed to establish the feasibility and performance capabilities of the next generation nuclear energy systems.\" There are currently ten active members: Canada, China, the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), France, Japan, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, Switzerland, and the United States. The non-active members are Argentina, Brazil, and the United Kingdom. Whether this framework will enable the job to get done is yet to be seen.\n\nThe global race is on to design and commercialize cheaper, safer, and more efficient nuclear reactors to provide clean energy to the world. Even though many of the original ideas, technologies and research came out of the U.S.'s early investments in nuclear research and the work of thousands of American nuclear physicists and engineers laboring in the National Laboratories and nuclear industry in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, whatever patents and Intellectual property protections there were have long been expired. Now anyone anywhere can look at the achievements of people like Alvin M. Weinberg and start to develop the perfect thorium molten salt reactor. Already it is evident that Russia, India and China have been investing heavily in such efforts. American entrepreneurs, while appearing to be up for the challenge, are handicapped by having no clear government support, no federal funding, no regulatory pathway and very little in the way public support for their search for technological solutions that could unleash a vast new clean energy industry, producing jobs and retaining geopolitical influence on nuclear performance and safety standards, while simultaneously contributing to our solution for climate change. Even with growing bipartisan support for maintaining a robust and innovative nuclear industry in the face of all of these challenges, the lingering opposition of the Anti-nuclear movement makes the work of America's Advanced Nuclear entrepreneurs an uphill battle.\n"}
{"id": "16755777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16755777", "title": "Advisory board", "text": "Advisory board\n\nAn advisory board is a body that provides non-binding strategic advice to the management of a corporation, organization, or foundation. The informal nature of an advisory board gives greater flexibility in structure and management compared to the board of directors. Unlike the board of directors, the advisory board does not have authority to vote on corporate matters or bear legal fiduciary responsibilities. Many new or small businesses choose to have advisory boards in order to benefit from the knowledge of others, without the expense or formality of the board of directors.\n\nThe function of an advisory board is to offer assistance to enterprises with anything from marketing to managing human resources to influencing the direction of regulators. Advisory boards are composed of accomplished experts offering innovative advice and dynamic perspectives. Meeting quarterly or biannually, boards can provide strategic direction, guide quality improvement, and assess program effectiveness.\n\nEntrepreneurs, especially from startup companies or small business may not want to dilute their control of their business by establishing a board of directors with formal responsibilities and authorities. Thus, an advisory board may be a more suitable solution to entrepreneurs who want access to high-quality advice and network in the industry. Advisory board, as an external group, could also provide non-biased information and advice to entrepreneurs.\n\nAdvisory boards can be implemented in various different areas, including science, medicine, technology, editorial policy, citizen participation, and other topics.\n\nSource: \n\nThe main reason to create an advisory board is to seek expertise outside of the company. Advisory board members should provide the company with knowledge, understanding and strategic thinking of the industry or management of the company.\n\nCompanies should seek advisory board members whose qualities complement the existing board of directors and not mask gaps in knowledge or skill in the main board. An advisory board strengthens the existing board, but does not interfere with authorities of the existing board. The former editor of The Economist, also an advisory board member, once said, “They (advisory boards) are there to give focus to or sometimes challenge research and intelligence work being done in the company, thus avoiding groupthink and giving direction on big picture issues.”.\n\nThere are two key questions to be asked when creating and operating an advisory board. The first question is who is trying to achieve what from an advisory board. The second question is how the business of the board should be conducted. The following issues need to be addressed.\n\nThe type of advisory board members should be determined by the nature of what is sought and expected from them by the enterprise. Advisory board members should have distinctive knowledge on different aspects of business such as marketing, product development, sales techniques that are of use to the directors.\n\nA lack of definition in “what is sought from the advisory board” or “what sort of advice is to be sought of” would lead to a disorganized board, which eventually could lead to an advisory board that provide less value per dollar or hour invested than a well-mandated one. Eventually, it could result in a waste of resources and time for the enterprise and the advisory board members.\n\nThe advisory board must determine what the focus of the committee is, whether it is a broad focus or a narrow one on a specific product feature. Individuals in an advisory board should share a common goal or similar interests.\n\nSize of an advisory board influences the efficiency of delivering ongoing information and effectiveness of organizing board meetings. A large advisory board may result in managerial issues. Therefore, it is recommended that an advisory board begin with the advisory board leader, and grow from a fairly small size to its ultimate number. Group dynamics suggests the maximum size for an advisory board is eight members, which takes into account of the need for enterprise people and other facilitators at meetings. Some advisory board’s mandate may require more significant representation of a specific and large number of constituencies.\n\nThe functioning of an advisory board is affected significantly by how effectively the group’s activities are organized and directed. A fixed meeting should be held regularly (monthly, annually or other) and advisory board members must be well informed of the purpose and background information of the meeting in order for them to provide valuable advice.\n\nA corollary should be provided to advisory board members, in which it should be of an appropriate length, organized, comprehensible and informative. While it should be concise, it should provide enough details to provide advisory board members a suitable foundation for them to advise on the business. Confidentiality of the information discussed in the meeting shall be considered.\n\nA skilled facilitator, administrator or corporate secretary is required to organize schedules of advisory board meetings and meeting materials. The facilitator or chair of the board should be committed and aware of time management for the meeting. An agenda could improve the organization and time management for the meeting.\n\nAdvisory board members could be appointed to specific terms i.e. one, two or three years so that it ensures them to actively commit to the company and prevent them to get too comfortable with their positions. Term of membership is also important when it comes to expansion of the board; term of membership ensures that the size of the advisory board remains efficient and manageable.\n\nAdvisory board members serve an enterprise for a range of reasons, from personal loyalty to direct compensation.\n\nThe benefits of having an advisory board over board of directors may include the following:\nMultinational companies have local companies running their business in a particular foreign jurisdiction for lower costs e.g. tax, price of raw materials, and organizational benefits. However, giving authority to an outside group of directors in the local company may increase risks and instability of the multinational corporation. Since an advisory board can operate in a different location, with different cultural and business norms, in a different language, multinational companies may choose to have an advisory board instead of a localized board of directors in order to avoid loss of control.\n\nCompanies may choose to have an advisory board before they have a board of directors. The development of an effective board of directors requires a group of individuals with good chemistry and has the combination of appropriate skills to propel the business. Having an advisory board allows companies to assess the commitments and capabilities of each individual and observe the chemistry between them before appointing them to a board of directors.\n\nA large board of directors may grow to an unmanageable size where organizational complexity and communication breakdown may occur, leading to ineffective and inefficient function of the board. A smaller advisory board, without the complexity of authority involved in board of directors, may work more effectively compared to a board of directors that grows in size as the corporation grows.\n\nThe complexity and speed of enterprises often make it difficult to seek advice on any particular topic. Enterprises may also find building trust in any person or group to provide on-going and meaningful guidance difficult. An advisory board can then provide the degree of consistency, longevity and background knowledge as advisory board members provide reliable advice on particular issues. Advisory board members receive compensation for committing to their positions. This gives incentives to advisory board members to provide quality advice and ensure that a request for assistance is taken formally.\n\nExecutives can express partially defined or tentative view to an advisory board since advisory board’s sole purpose is to provide advice. This allows them to “test-drive options” before they face the board of directors which demands definitive and assertive business decisions. The board of directors assesses the CEO and establishes his or her compensation. While an advisory board may induce change in the company for the benefits of the company, a board of directors inducing change in the company could suggest a lack of confidence in the senior management team. This imposes great pressure on senior executives and could become a barrier for senior executives to express their issues and seek advice from the board. Thus, an advisory board could be a ‘safe harbor’ for senior executives to seek advice and test business options.\n\nDirectors and Assistant Directors are still required to bring any changes to policy or financial matters to the board for direction. No directors or assistant directors are to make any changes without board approval.\n\nAn enterprise may need advice on a particular aspect of its business (such as marketing, product direction, customer service or contact network expansion). While board of directors need to take into account of all aspects and go through a series of administrative proceedings e.g. formal approvals, ratification, an advisory board can focus directly on a particular issue and give advice.\n\nThe drawbacks of having an advisory board instead of a board of directors may include the following:\nAn advisory board deals with a more narrow range of issues and meet less often than board of directors. There is less commitment for advisory board members compared to directors in the board. This is reflected in the lower compensation advisory board members receive as compared to those in the board of directors. Nevertheless, the compensation for advisory board members depends on various factors, including return of investments, time, organization and cost.\n\nBoard of directors is exposed to a variety of legislated liabilities, fiduciary and other duties. Responsibilities include unpaid wages, unpaid taxes, environmental damage, etc. By subjecting directors to such liabilities and fiduciary, directors are forced to make decisions and establish policies in a way that minimizes risks. Whereas, an advisory board is not subjected to fiduciary duties or liabilities and therefore could influence the enterprise by providing risky advice.\n"}
{"id": "34593541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34593541", "title": "Alberta Enterprise Group", "text": "Alberta Enterprise Group\n\nThe Alberta Enterprise Group (AEG) is a member-based, non-profit business advocacy organization based in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.\n\nThe organization claims its members collectively employ more than 150,000 people and generate billions in economic activity each year.\n\nThe organization states its mission as applying the collective experience of its members in order to solve public policy challenges and to form and promote public policy solutions and to provide forums for the exchange of ideas and best practices.\n\nIn 2006 a group of Alberta business leaders came together to form a fundraising/political action group called Grassroots Leadership Group. The group unsuccessfully supported Mark Norris on the first ballot in his Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta leadership bid. After Norris dropped off the ballot, the group supported eventual winner Ed Stelmach on the second ballot.\n\nAfter the PC leadership process, Grassroots Leadership Group members decided to keep the group together as a business advocacy organization and re-branded as Alberta Enterprise Group, headed by then-Chairman Cal Nichols.\n\nUntil 2013 the organization was led by Tim Shipton until his departure in November of that year. Tim Shipton was previously director of the Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta.\n\nIn February, 2014 the organization announced the appointment of Josh Bilyk as President.\n\nThe organization has conducted several meetings over the years trying to draw more business to Canada. In 2008 AEG brought 100 of the province's business leaders to Washington D.C. to meet with congressional leaders and United States business leaders. Then in 2009 the organization brought more than 60 of the province's business leaders to Geneva, Switzerland in an effort to showcase Alberta to the European investment community. In both 2008 and 2009 the organization brought more than 150 businessmen and politicians from across North America to tour the oil sands mining operations. Participants visited Syncrude, Albian and CNRL's Horizon Mine.\n\nIn the spring of 2010, AEG organized the Alberta Connects outreach mission to Ottawa. Alberta Connects introduced AEG members to Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Finance Minister Flaherty, Environment Minister Prentice, Liberal Leader Michael Ignatieff and 55 other Members of Parliament and Senators.\n\nIn 2011, the group returned to Washington, D.C. to engage U.S political leaders in a discussion on improving trade relations between Canada and the United States and ensuring market access for Canadian energy. In 2012, the group brought a delegation of 40 business leaders to Quebec to meet with business and political leaders in that province, purportedly to improve trade ties between the two provinces.\n\nIn 2015, the group organized a trade mission to British Columbia where it met with British Columbia Energy and Mines Minister Bill Bennett, First Nations Energy & Mining Council CEO Dave Porter, and Iain Black, CEO of the Vancouver Board of Trade and others. A mission highlight was a keynote address by MEG Energy CEO Bill McCaffrey.\n\nThe organization is a strong proponent of what it calls \"sustainable resource development,\" arguing that impediments to resource development imposed by excessive regulation hurt the Canadian economy and government revenues.\n\nThe group has also been engaged in the discussion on Alberta's provincial budget, advocating spending restraint as opposed to tax increases to address a growing government deficit.\n\nIn April 2015, during the 2015 Alberta general election campaign the group released a study arguing that increasing business taxes would kill jobs and investment, increase consumer prices and reduce wages for workers.\n\nThe organization has also published information regarding collective bargaining. In December 2009 AEG released a study calling for reforms to provincial labour laws, hoping to create good business climates while upholding the collective bargaining rights of workers. The paper argued that the Canada's labour laws lag behind Europe, Australia and the United Kingdom. Some of the recommendations in the study included: having membership cards instead of signing petitions; requiring a quorum, and allowing unionized workers in Alberta be allowed opt out of the portion of their union dues that is spent on lobbying and political activities. The organization supported enacting a Worker Free Choice Act (WFCA) to which would allow workers the right to choose whether or not to join or financially support a union as a condition of employment. Bob Barnetson, who is an associate professor of labour relations at Athabasca University, spoke out against the study's conclusions and how it was conducted. However, the study was endorsed by the Merit Contractors Association, Canadian Constitution Foundation and the Canadian Federation of Independent Business. A survey conducted by AEG also found that 65 percent believed 70 percent of employees should vote to certify or decertify a union. The poll also found that 78 percent agreed that union dues should only be spent on collective bargaining and union management instead of policy influence.\n\nAlso in 2009, the organization waged a campaign to save the Edmonton City Centre Airport from closure, arguing that the facility is an economic asset and an important component of the province's health system, saying it provided $400 million in economic output annually. The group ran a petition to keep the airport open, collecting over 1000 signatures. After discussions about compromising and only closing one lane, Edmonton City Councillors ultimately voted to close the airport.\n\nIm May 2011 AEG went to Washington, D.C. to talk about borders security, energy development and trade. Participants met with Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate to discuss the pending decision on the Keystone XL pipeline. The meetings noted that tar sands knowledge had increased, discussed Canada's commitment to its environment and the benefits of the oil sands to America. In December 2011, AEG led a counter-boycott of Chiquita Bananas in response to the company signing on to an anti-oil sands campaign coordinated by California-based environmental advocacy group Forest Ethics. Chiquita later said that it would continue to use Canadian oil. Levi-Strauss and Timberland were also targeted by AEG in the boycott of the boycotters, but were later taken down from the page after the companies said they would not boycott Canadian oil.\n\n"}
{"id": "9770262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9770262", "title": "Alberto Aleman", "text": "Alberto Aleman\n\nAlberto Alemán Zubieta (born c. 1951) is a former administrator of the Panama Canal. He graduated from Texas A&M University in civil and industrial engineering in 1973. He lives in Panama with his wife, Ana Matilde, and their three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47456018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47456018", "title": "Ali Wakrim", "text": "Ali Wakrim\n\nAli Wakrim is a Moroccan businessman. He and his family share ownership in the Akwa Group with Aziz Akhannouch and his family. The two men's fathers partnered to form the company, along with Afriqua Gaz, which Wakrim chairs along with Maghreb Oxygene.\n\nBillionaires tycoon Ali Wakrim and his family share ownership in Akwa Group with Moroccan billionaire Aziz Akhannouch. Wakrim's late father Ahmed partnered with Aziz Akhannouch's father to form Afriquia Gaz in 1959. Wakrim is chairman of the liquid petroleum gas distributor, which reported $400 million in revenues in 2014. He is also vice president of Akwa Group, the holding company for Afriquia Gaz and for Maghreb Oxygene, a chemical manufacturer.his net worth is estimated to be 1 billion dollars \n"}
{"id": "6297884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6297884", "title": "Andrew Firestone", "text": "Andrew Firestone\n\nAndrew Boulton Firestone (born July 10, 1975) is an American TV reality show personality. He is the son of Brooks Firestone, a grandson of Leonard Firestone, and a great-grandson of Firestone Tire and Rubber Company founder Harvey Firestone and Idabelle Smith.\n\nEducated at Stevenson School and Westminster School, he graduated from the University of San Diego in business administration where he also was a member of the football team, in 1998.\n\nProfessional Career\nAndrew Firestone is Principal and Founder of StonePark Capital, a Santa Barbara-based hospitality firm that focuses on the acquisition and development of select service hotels, and applies a disciplined set of strategies which prioritizes investor return. Currently StonePark capital has projects in Santa Barbara, Morgan Hill, Santa Rosa, and San Luis Obispo CA.\n\nFirestone was the third bachelor on the ABC reality series \"The Bachelor\". On the show, premiered in March 2003, Firestone courted 25 bachelorettes, progressively eliminating them, and eventually selected one of the group for a continuing relationship. Andrew selected and proposed to Jen Schefft, who accepted and moved to California to be with him. The couple decided to go their separate ways in December 2003, but remained friends.\n\nIn 2005, Firestone participated in the fifth Celebrity Poker Showdown tournament on Bravo. He won his first-round game, but placed third in the tournament championship. Firestone played for the charity Direct Relief.\n\nIn 2006, Firestone appeared in an episode of VH1's \"Celebrity Paranormal Project\".\n\nFirestone is the host of a lifestyles series entitled \"Billionaires Car Club\", distributed by American Television Distribution. It first aired in May 2008.\n\nFirestone also made an appearance on episode two of \"\" on VH1.\n\nFirestone and his wife have appeared in television advertisements for the Baby Bullet.\n\nOn July 5, 2008, Firestone married actress/model Ivana Bozilovic at St. Mark's in the Valley Episcopal Church in Los Olivos, California. Firestone and Bozilovic have three children: sons Adam Brooks (born March 21, 2009) and Shane (born January 27, 2014), and daughter Anja Jasmine (born April 15, 2011).\n\n"}
{"id": "39375944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39375944", "title": "Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies", "text": "Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies\n\nThe Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies (AOSCA), formerly known as the International Crop Improvement Association, is a trade organization based in the United States. Founded in 1919, its function is to develop and promote certified varieties of seed for agricultural use.\n\nThe International Crop Improvement Association evolved from the Wisconsin Crop Improvement Association (WCIA), initially called the Wisconsin Experiment Association. This was organized in 1901 by Ransom Asa Moore at the University of Wisconsin–Madison College of Agriculture, aided by graduates of that college and farmers, with the objective of improving and disseminating strains of seed. The establishment of the International Crop Improvement Association followed in December 1919 when Moore presented a proposed constitution for the organization in Chicago, Illinois. It was proposed that the organization be international rather than national to allow Canada to be a member. Moore was named the first president of the organization in 1920.\n\nThe Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies (AOSCA) assists clients in the production, identification, distribution and promotion of certified classes of seed and other crop propagation materials. Its membership currently includes seed certifying agencies across the US, and member countries including Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Argentina, Chile and Brazil. Its mission is \"To promote and facilitate the movement of seed or plant products in local, national, and international markets through the coordinated efforts of official seed certification agencies acting to evaluate, document, and verify that a seed or plant product meets certain accepted standards.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5613819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5613819", "title": "Association of Telehealth Service Providers", "text": "Association of Telehealth Service Providers\n\nAssociation of Telehealth Service Providers (ATSP) is an international membership-based trade non-profit organization dedicated to improving health care through growth of the telehealth industry and promoting the use of telecommunications in healthcare. Its main activities are advocacy, education awareness programs, and business support services. It is a business-oriented group which focuses on providing members with information and tools to facilitate the success of their telehealth activities.\n\nATSP believes that telemedicine is a practical tool that can improve the distribution of healthcare services to the benefit of both patients and providers.\n\nIt was founded in 1996 by Douglas Perednia, MD and is located in Portland, Oregon. Its executive director is Will Engle.\n\nIn June 2006, the ATSP announced that it was taking over the hosting and updating responsibilities for the Telemedicine Information Exchange (TIE). The TIE's mission is to provide an online, unbiased, all-inclusive platform for information on telemedicine and telehealth. As of April 2012, this site seems to be down.\n\n"}
{"id": "11544721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11544721", "title": "Ayo Ogunsheye", "text": "Ayo Ogunsheye\n\nAyo Ogunsheye is a Nigerian academic, nationalism scholar and former head of the extra murals department of University of Ibadan. In 1970, he was one of the major high-profile executive personnel brought into indigenous private enterprise which were historically family dominated at the executive level. After the death of Henry Fajemirokun in 1979, he became the Chief Executive officer of Henry Stephens Nigeria Limited.\n\nThe extra murals department of the university of Ibadan was established in 1949 to focus on adult education in the nation. A reason given for its creation was to expand knowledge to non-Ibadan graduates so as not to create a dominant network of graduate elites. However, the prospect of independence led to increased enthusiasm for knowledge in various towns and cities. The department soon devoted resources and research into the issue of self-government. A number of nationalistic politicians attended courses or seminars offered by the department in the 1950s. Ayo Ogunsheye, as director was a vital element in the department which included noted scholar Ulli Beier.\n\nAs an academic, Ayo Ogunsheye wrote often on the need to tilt education towards improving national consciousness and bringing the informal education sector into public consciousness. In 1959, when the clamor for independence was at it loudest, a conference was held at Ibadan to hash out impending independent issues. As chairman of the first of such seminar in the region, the international conference discussed 'representative government and Progress in West Africa'. Most of his views about self-government emphasized the need to ensure internal cohesion in order to improve the standard of living of citizens. Using the adage, a nation divided against itself cannot stand, he stressed the extradition of internal chaos by the use of an appropriate constitution, which would become a necessary factor for strengthening the country, However, like his views on education, a lot them dealt with nationalism and how to ensure dynamic progress for black Africa. He also emphasized major complementary cases for unity in West Africa and Nigeria. That Nigeria as a large and diverse nation will provide instances where regions can benefit from fair exchange of food and resources. The need to attract foreign capital will become closer to reality with the existence of a large country suitable for foreign investors. Most of his views shed light on the need to maximize the potential of a large nation in order to benefit from increased external visibility and internal financial base for extended social services.\n"}
{"id": "20758412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20758412", "title": "Business/IT Fusion", "text": "Business/IT Fusion\n\nBusiness/IT Fusion: How to Move Beyond Alignment and Transform IT in Your Organization is a business book by Peter Hinssen, published in 2009. It discusses an approach to IT management different to the classic model of business/IT alignment. In place of alignment focused on the collaboration between business and IT, Hinssen suggests that the future evolution in IT lies in the convergence of the two parties: integrating IT into the business rather than treating it as a supplier. The work is presented as a guidebook to \"IT 2.0\".\n"}
{"id": "4171371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4171371", "title": "Business simulation game", "text": "Business simulation game\n\nBusiness simulation games, also known as economic simulation games or tycoon games, are games that focus on the management of economic processes, usually in the form of a business. Pure business simulations have been described as construction and management simulations without a construction element, and can thus be called management simulations. Indeed, micromanagement is often emphasized in these kinds of games. They are essentially numeric, but try to hold the player's attention by using creative graphics. The interest in these games lies in accurate simulation of real-world events using algorithms, as well as the close tying of players' actions to expected or plausible consequences and outcomes. An important facet of economic simulations is the emergence of artificial systems, gameplay and structures.\n\nThere are many games in this genre which have been designed around numerous different enterprises and different simulations. \"Theme Park\" can be called a business simulation because the goal of the game is to attract customers and make profits, but the game also involves a building aspect that makes it a construction and management simulation. This genre also includes many of the \"tycoon\" games such as \"Railroad Tycoon\" and \"Transport Tycoon\". Another similar example of a business simulation (that models a startup business) is \"SimVenture Classic\".\n\nTrevor Chan is a notable developer of business simulation games, having developed the 1995 game \"Capitalism\" which has been described as the \"best business simulation game\". Similar in complexity and functionality is Virtonomics business simulation. This is a browser-based multiplayer game in which realistic market behavior is formed as a result of the interaction of a large number of players.\n\nActive development of Internet technologies and the growth of the Internet audience in recent years gave a powerful impetus to the development of the industry of online games, and in particular, online business simulations. There are many varieties of online business simulations - browser-based and downloadable, single-player and multiplayer, real-time and turn-based. Some online simulations are aimed primarily at the leisure market while others have real world applications in training, education and modelling.\n\nBecause business simulations simulate real-world systems, they are often used in management, marketing, economics and hospitality education. Some benefits of business simulations are that they permit students to experience and test themselves in situations before encountering them in real life, they permit students to experiment and test hypotheses, and that subjects seem more real to them than when taught passively from the blackboard. They are also used extensively in the professional world to train workers in the financial industries, hospitality and management, and to study economic models (an association of professionals, ABSEL, exists for the sole purpose of promoting their use), with some simulations having in excess of 10,000 variables. Economic simulations have even been used in experiments, such as those done by Donald Broadbent on learning and cognition that revealed how people often have an aptitude for mastering systems without necessarily comprehending the underlying principles. Other games are used to study the behavior of consumers.\n\nAn early economic sim by Dan Bunten, \"M.U.L.E.\", released in 1983, foreshadowed events that would transpire later in video gaming history, especially in the MMOG market, with regard to player cooperation and simulated economies. The game was Electronic Arts' most highly awarded game, despite selling only 30,000 copies. That same year, Epyx released the business sim \"Oil Barons\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22707932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22707932", "title": "Civilian noninstitutional population", "text": "Civilian noninstitutional population\n\nIn the United States, the civilian noninstitutional population refers to people 16 years of age and older residing in the 50 States and the District of Columbia who are not inmates of institutions (penal, mental facilities, homes for the aged), and who are not on active duty in the Armed Forces.\n\nThe data series can be obtained from the Federal Reserve Economic Database (FRED). As of September 2014, there were 248,446,000 persons in the civilian noninstitutional population out of a U.S. population of approximately 320 million. It has steadily grown along with the U.S. population, roughly 1% per year for 2005-2013 period.\n\nThe measure is used to help gauge the percentage of the population that is employed or in the workforce, as the denominator in the \"civilian employment to population ratio\", also called the EM ratio, and the \"civilian labor force participation rate.\" Trends in these figures are shown in the first graphic; the computation of these figures is shown in the second graphic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16942788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16942788", "title": "Cognos ReportNet", "text": "Cognos ReportNet\n\nCognos ReportNet (CRN) is a web-based software product for creating and managing ad hoc and custom-made reports. ReportNet is developed by the Ottawa-based company Cognos (formerly Cognos Incorporated), an IBM company. The web-based reporting tool was launched in September 2003. Since IBM's acquisition of Cognos, ReportNet has been renamed \"IBM Cognos ReportNet\" like all other Cognos products.\n\nReportNet uses web services standards such as XML and Simple Object Access Protocol and also supports dynamic HTML and Java. ReportNet is compatible with multiple databases including Oracle, SAP, Teradata, Microsoft SQL server, DB2 and Sybase. The product provides interface in over 10 languages, has Web Services architecture to meet the needs of multi-national, diversified enterprises and helps reduce total cost of ownership. Multiple versions of Cognos ReportNet have since been released by the company. Cognos ReportNet was awarded the Software and Information Industry Association (SIIA) 2005 Codie awards for the \"Best Business Intelligence or Knowledge Management Solution\" category. CRN's capabilities have been further used in IBM Cognos 8 BI (2005), the latest reporting tool. CRN comes with its own software development kit (SDK).\n\nEarly adopters of Cognos ReportNet for their corporate reporting needs included Bear Stearns, BMW and Alfred Publishing. Around this same time of launch, Cognos competitor Business Objects released version 6.1 of its enterprise reporting tool. Cognos ReportNet has been successful since its launch, raising revenues in 2004 from licensing fees. Subsequently, other major corporations like McDonald's adopted Cognos ReportNet.\n\nCognos rival Business Objects announced in 2005 that BusinessObjects XI significantly outperformed Cognos ReportNet in benchmark tests conducted by VeriTest, an independent software testing firm. The tests performed showed Cognos ReportNet performed poorly when processing styled reports, complex business reports and combination of both. The tests reported a massive 21 times higher report throughput for BusinessObjects XI than Cognos ReportNet at capacity loads. Cognos soon dismissed the claims by stating Business Objects dictated the environment and testing criteria and Cognos did not provide the software to participate in benchmark test. Cognos later performed their own test to demonstrate Cognos ReportNet capabilities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5259542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259542", "title": "Colm O'Rourke", "text": "Colm O'Rourke\n\nColm O'Rourke (born 31 August 1957) is a retired Gaelic footballer and current sports broadcaster. His league and championship career with the Meath senior team spanned twenty years from 1975 to 1995.\n\nBorn in Aughavas, County Leitrim, O'Rourke was raised in Skryne, County Meath after his family moved there in his youth. He played competitive Gaelic football during his schooling at St. Patrick's Classical School in Navan. O'Rourke first appeared for the Skryne club at underage levels, before winning two county senior championship medals in 1992 and 1993. While studying at University College Dublin he won a Sigerson Cup medal in 1979.\n\nO'Rourke made his debut on the inter-county scene when he was picked for the Meath minor team. He later joined the under-21 side but enjoyed little success in these grades. O'Rourke made his senior debut during the 1975-76 league. Over the course of the next twenty years he was a regular member of the starting fifteen and won back-to-back All-Ireland medals in 1987 and 1988. He also won five Leinster medals, three National Football League medals and was named Footballer of the Year in 1991. O'Rourke played his last game for Meath in July 1995.\n\nIn retirement from playing O'Rourke combined his teaching career with a new position as a sports broadcaster. His media career began with RTÉ where he has worked as a studio analyst with the flagship programme \"the Sunday Game\" for over twenty-five years. O'Rourke also writes a weekly column for the \"Sunday Independent\".\n\nDespite becoming an inter-county Meath footballer, O'Rourke is not a Meathman by birth; he was born in the small parish of Aughavas within County Leitrim. He moved with his family as a youngster from Leitrim to County Meath\n\nO'Rourke is a descendant of the Uí Ruairc royal house of Breffni. He has, however, been accepted by the people of Skryne in Meath as one of their own forty years after arriving from Aughavas. He is the secondary school principal in St. Patrick's Classical School in Navan where he has trained the Gaelic football team to numerous successes at provincial and national level throughout the past two decades.\n\nHe has also managed Colm O'Rourke Sports, his own sports shop in Navan Shopping Centre, during this period. He started working for RTÉ on The Sunday Game in 1991, and has been a contributor to sports columns in national newspapers. He is continuously being linked with managing the Meath senior football team, previously held by Seán Boylan, another man with Leitrim connections. O'Rourke's son Shane also played with the Meath senior football team, while his nephew Paddy has played as a goalkeeper for Meath.\n\nAs a Gaelic footballer, O'Rourke won two All-Ireland medals with Meath, in 1987 and 1988. He also won five Leinster Senior Football Championship medals and three National Football League titles.\n\nO'Rourke received three All-Star for Meath in 1983, 1988 and 1991. His performance, playing with a bandaged knee, in the Dublin-Meath matches of the summer of 1991 are still recounted in Meath. When playing for Meath he was part of a full forward line of himself, Brian Stafford and Bernard Flynn, often considered to be one of the best full-forward lines of all time.\n\nO'Rourke has managed Simonstown Gaels GFC in Navan, guiding them to two Meath Senior Football Finals in 2003 and 2004, only for the team to lose on both occasions. He also guided the club to its first adult title in 2005 when it won the Meath Football League Division 1.\n\nO'Rourke managed Ireland's team that competed in the Compromise Rules competition on two outings, 1998 and 1999.\n\nO'Rourke is currently the manager for the Senior men's team in St. Patrick's Classical School, they compete in the A division and in 2001, 2003 and 2004 they won the Hogan cup in the All-Ireland, they have got to the All-Ireland many of a time more recently in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "51753034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51753034", "title": "Compensation scheme for radiation-linked diseases", "text": "Compensation scheme for radiation-linked diseases\n\nThe Compensation scheme for radiation-linked diseases is a workers compensation scheme administered by the UK government. It was established in November 1982 by British Nuclear Fuels Limited and its trade unions following legal actions brought against the company by nuclear industry workers in the late 1970s. At the time of its establishment, BNFL and its trade unions agreed that the causation of cancer by radiation was sufficiently well understood that \"it should be possible to construct a scheme which would evaluate the probability that a diagnosed cancer may have been caused by radiation exposure at work.\" Initially the scheme only accepted claims in which a worker had died from a radiation-linked disease. In 1987 this was expanded to allow morbidity claims. The list of participating member employers and trade unions has grown through the 1990s and 2000s. As of December 2015, 1525 claims have been made out of which 156 have been successful.\n\nIn order to be eligible for compensation, a worker must have been employed by a listed company, and have received an occupational radiation dose. Then the claimant must have developed cancer of the bladder, bone, brain and central nervous system, breast or uterus (for female workers), colon, liver, oesophagus, respiratory or lung, prostate, ovary, skin (non-Melanoma), thyroid or other tissues. Other compensable diseases include cataracts and leukaemias (with two exceptions). Some diseases are excluded on the basis that there is no convincing epidemiological evidence to link them with ionising radiation exposure. Excluded diseases include: Hodgkin’s disease, hairy cell leukaemia, chronic lymphatic leukaemia (CLL), malignant melanoma and mesothelioma.\n\nIn 1982, trade union members of the scheme included Transport and General Workers Union, Institution of Professional Civil Servants, Amalgamated Engineering Union, GMB and PCS. Other trades unions joined as the scheme expanded. Later members include the EETPU and MSF, UCATT, Engineers and Managers Association, Unison, the First Division Association of Civil Servants, the AEA Constabulary Federation (now the Civil Nuclear Police Federation) and the Defence Police Federation.\n\nClaims may be lodged by the worker, his or her wife, husband or partner (including same sex), the worker's \"first line children\" (those born to or legally adopted by the claimant). Once diagnosed with or deceased from an eligible disease, the worker or surviving family members have 30 years in which to make a claim. Claims can be made online, by post, by phone or through the worker's trade union. Once made, claims are assessed on consideration of medical, employment and dosimetry histories and data. These are used to calculate the probability that the cancer could have been caused by occupational exposure to radiation.\n\nThe payment received following a successful claim varies depending on the actual loss (in earnings and pension) suffered by the claimant and sums for pain and suffering, loss of amenity and number of dependents. The level of payment awarded to a claimant (or estate if deceased) is determined by the \"causation probability\". The greater the causation probability, the greater the payment. Top tier payments are awarded if the causation probability is 50% or more. The Scheme publishes an Annual statement which is approved by the Scheme Council. The report includes a paragraph updating the number of claims and payments awarded.\n\nBy 22 February 2005, 1000 claims had been made, of which 97 had been awarded to varying degrees along a sliding scale.\n\nAs of December 2015, 1525 cases had been considered since the compensation scheme for radiation-linked diseases was established. 156 of these claims were successful, and payments totaling £8.24 million had been dispatched.\n"}
{"id": "37085666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37085666", "title": "Daire O'Brien", "text": "Daire O'Brien\n\nDaire O'Brien is an Irish broadcaster and journalist. He is best known for being the presenter and anchorman of RTÉ Sport's coverage of the Pro14 rugby union competition, and has been with RTÉ since 2010. Before this he presented for Setanta Sports, where he was one of their most recognisable faces. Here he was successful until Setanta Sports went bankrupt in 2010, after which he moved to RTE Sport and began broadcasting for them. He has also contributed to Newstalk. He has written for the \"Irish Independent\", \"The Sunday Times\", \"The Sunday Business Post\" and the \"Sunday Tribune\" and reported for \"Prime Time\" in the 1990s. He narrated the RTÉ series \"Tidiest of Towns\" in 2007.\n\nHis family home is Carrigrohane Castle in Cork, his father Leo was a businessman and his older brother is the well-known socialite businessman Breifne O'Brien, who was recently found guilty of defrauding a number of people, some of whom were longtime friends, of sums totaling more than €10m\n"}
{"id": "36176091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36176091", "title": "Dan Goldstein", "text": "Dan Goldstein\n\nDan Goldstein (b. 1954) is a pioneer of the Israeli software industry. He is the founder of Formula Systems, sold in 2006, and Formula Vision Technologies. Goldstein serves as Chairman of The Public Companies Association in Israel.\n\nDan Goldstein was born in Bucharest, Romania. He immigrated to Israel with his family in 1960. After completing his BA in computer science and mathematics and an MA in business administration, he studied for a PhD in mathematics.\nIn 1980, while writing his doctoral thesis on distributed networks, he founded Formula Software Services, providing professional software services to Israeli customers. By 1985 he expanded to other areas such as software products and consulting, and in 1985 he founded Formula Systems (1985) Ltd., as a holding corporation for his software products, services and consulting activities. In 1988 he acquired control of a publicly traded company named \"Eichut Computers\", which he turned into the communications arm of the developing Formula Group. He later acquired \"Idan Inc.\", a public company traded on Nasdaq, and nominated Ami Harel as its CEO. This company was a pioneer in the developing Israeli communications market in the late 1980s and early 1990s, before the accelerated regulation of overseas voice and data communication. As the group grew, Goldstein formulated an investment strategy of specialization in software products and services for vertical markets. He acquired controlling interests in a number of young companies, such as \"Applicom\", a software house for Mini Computers, \"Wiztech\", which specialized in Billing, and Crystal, which specialized in large conversion projects. By 1990 Goldstein established the position of Formula Systems as a leading software group in Israel. He founded \"Foraz\", the first Israeli Venture Capital Fund, together with \"Liraz\", a publicly traded company headed by Arik Kilman. Goldstein later acquired Liraz's share in the fund, and later acquired control of Liraz itself.\n\nIn the 1990s, Goldstein acquired other technology companies. He bought a Telecom billing company headed by Amos Sivan and changed its name to \"Formula Telecom Solutions\" (FTS), Acquired an insurance software company headed by Zeev Alon and renamed it \"Formula Insurance Solutions\" (FIS), a retail software company called \"Az-Ben\", which he renamed \"Formula Retail Solutions\" (FRS), and a Travel solutions company headed by Menahem Shaked, which he named \"Formula Travel Solutions\". He also acquired \"Nikuv Computers\", one of the first publicly traded software services companies in Israel specializing in Salary calculation, which owned a prevalent ERP system for small and medium clients. Throughout this decade, some of Goldstein's earlier investments have reached a size which justified public offerings, and raised funds on The Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, the AIM market in London, and on Nasdaq: Crystal Software Solutions and \"Wiztech\" (later wholly acquired by Convergys) were the first two greatly successful offerings, followed by ForSoft, the traditional Software Services arm of the group throughout the 90s. Goldstein's holding company, Formula Systems also started trading on Nasdaq. He also founded a new Venture Capital Fund, \"Formula Ventures\" headed by Shay Beilis, and acquired a controlling interest in Sapiens.\n\nIn 1998 Goldstein acquired control of the Mashov Group. This publicly traded group of technology companies headed by Yaki Dunietz and David Assia, consisted of established businesses such as Magic Software Enterprises, Babylon, Paradigm Geophysical and Walla! Communications. This acquisition, combined with the effects of the technology bubble which resulted in high evaluations of technology companies, brought The Formula Group to evaluations exceeding a Billion Dollars. In February 2000, Goldstein led a secondary public offering of Magic Software Enterprises on Nasdaq, raising over $100 Million, at a valuation of $750 million. During this period, Goldstein partnered and worked with major players in the world of finance, such as Deutsche Bank, Citibank, and all major Israeli investment banks, Mezzanine funds such as \"FIMI\", \"Shamrock\" (Disney's investment arm), \"Discount Investments\" and many more. By the end of the millennium, Goldstein was by far the most prominent technology-oriented entrepreneur in Israel.\n\nIn March 2000, one month after Magic Software's successful secondary offering for a record evaluation, the technology bubble started to burst. Apart from the companies included in the Mashov portfolio, Goldstein was not heavily invested in the technology sector. Goldstein decided to reorganize, and entirely changed the corporate structure of the group he controlled. He consolidated and simplified the complicated multi-level corporate structure, which was a half arbitrary result of many historical and fiscal reasons. Formula Systems remained the top level holding company, with 3 distinct holdings: Matrix (formerly Forsoft), which merged and acquired all wholly owned group members which were synergetic with its business (including education companies such as \"John Bryce\" and \"Sivan\", hardware companies such as \"2D\", \"Syntech\", software companies such as \"Applicom\"), Magic Software Enterprises, and Formula Vision (formerly Mashov Computers). This reorganization also included sale of holdings (e.g., Walla! Communications and \"Paradigm Geophysical\", both mature holdings acquired with the Mashov Group) which were minority holdings, or not synergetic with other group activities.\n\nIn parallel, Goldstein attempted to bring new investors into the group. One such attempt in 2001-2002 has failed, because the investor turned out to be an unfunded and unfounded roll up operation. In 2004, Goldstein decided to bring in an equal partner for the first time. Control of the Formula Group was transferred to \"Fimgold\", a partnership between Goldstein and the \"FIMI opportuniti fund\", headed by Ishay Davidi. This move was intended to \"contribute to and upgrade the Company’s operations, help in the crystallization of the Company’s new strategy, and at the end of the day will add value to the Company’s shareholders\". In the years that followed, Goldstein found himself leading a publicly traded corporate pyramid as well as group of young, promising yet struggling companies in the portfolio of Formula Vision. In 2006, he received an offer from Emblaze, another public company, run by Guy Bernstein. Emblaze acquired Formula in December of that year, and Goldstein parted from the company he founded and managed for 25 years, in favor of a de facto start-up incubator, Formula Vision.\n\nSince 2000, Goldstein has been Chairman of The Public Companies Association in Israel. As such, he is very involved in legislation and public debate over issues pertaining to subjects such as corporate governance, financial regulation, reporting and accounting standards. He is a demanded speaker in panels, typically representing corporate business interests. Goldstein also serves on the Israeli Advisory Boards of TAU Recanati, the Recanati Business School in Tel Aviv University, and of The Merage Foundation for U.S-Israel Trade. Goldstein also served as The Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Tel Aviv Academic College of Engineering. In 2015 he was appointed CEO of the disintegrating Israel Post Company.\n"}
{"id": "47224199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47224199", "title": "Drummond Tobacco Company", "text": "Drummond Tobacco Company\n\nThe Drummond Tobacco Company was an American tobacco company in St. Louis, Missouri. \n\nThe company was founded in 1873, when it started making Chesterfield cigarettes. Its headquarters in St. Louis was designed by architect Isaac S. Taylor in 1885. The company later also produced Horseshoe brand chewing tobacco. It was acquired by the American Tobacco Company in 1898.\n"}
{"id": "46580447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46580447", "title": "Farell Duclair", "text": "Farell Duclair\n\nFarell Duclair (born May 10, 1972) is a former Canadian football fullback who played four seasons in the Canadian Football League (CFL) with the Calgary Stampeders and Winnipeg Blue Bombers. He was drafted by the Stampeders with the eighth overall pick in the 1996 CFL Draft. He first enrolled at Vanier College before transferring to Northern Illinois University and lastly Concordia University. Duclair was also a member of the Toronto Argonauts.\n\nDuclair played for the Vanier Cheetahs of Vanier College from 1990 to 1991. The Cheetahs won the 1991 Quebec Cegep Provincial championship. He transferred to play for the Northern Illinois Huskies of Northern Illinois University in 1992. He finished his college career with the Concordia Stingers of Concordia University.\n\nDuclair was selected by the Calgary Stampeders with the eighth overall pick in the 1996 CFL Draft. He played in 46 games for the Stampeders from 1996 to 1998. The Stampeders won the 86th Grey Cup against the Hamilton Tiger-Cats on November 22, 1998. He played in three games for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers during the 1999 season. Duclair was a member of the Toronto Argonauts in 2001. He retired, partly due to a pulled hamstring, the same year.\n\nDuclair's nephew Anthony Duclair is a Canadian ice hockey player. Farell opened a private school called the Everest Academy, which has a strong focus on sports, in Thornhill, Ontario in 2010. Anthony Duclair attended Everest Academy. Farell had previously opened up another private athletic school, The Hill Academy in Orangeville, Ontario in 2006, but left the school after a few years.\n\n"}
{"id": "602960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602960", "title": "Food processing", "text": "Food processing\n\nFood processing is the transformation of agricultural products into food, or of one form of food into other forms. Food processing includes many forms of processing foods, from grinding grain to make raw flour to home cooking to complex industrial methods used to make convenience foods.\n\nPrimary food processing is necessary to make most foods edible, and secondary food processing turns the ingredients into familiar foods, such as bread.\n\nTertiary food processing has been criticized for promoting overnutrition and obesity, containing too much sugar and salt, too little fiber, and otherwise being unhealthful.\n\nPrimary food processing turns agricultural products, such as raw wheat kernels or livestock, into something that can eventually be eaten. This category includes ingredients that are produced by ancient processes such as drying, threshing, winnowing, and milling grain, shelling nuts, and butchering animals for meat. It also includes deboning and cutting meat, freezing and smoking fish and meat, extracting and filtering oils, canning food, preserving food through food irradiation, and candling eggs, as well as homogenizing and pasteurizing milk. \n\nContamination and spoilage problems in primary food processing can lead to significant public health threats, as the resulting foods are used so widely. However, many forms of processing contribute to improved food safety and longer shelf life before the food spoils. Commercial food processing uses control systems such as hazard analysis and critical control points (HACCP) and failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) to reduce the risk of harm.\n\nSecondary food processing is the everyday process of creating food from ingredients that are ready to use. Baking bread, regardless of whether it is made at home, in a small bakery, or in a large factory, is an example of secondary food processing. Fermenting fish and making wine, beer, and other alcoholic products are traditional forms of secondary food processing. Sausages are a common form of secondary processed meat, formed by comminution (grinding) of meat that has already undergone primary processing.\n\nTertiary food processing is the commercial production of what is commonly called processed food. These are ready-to-eat or heat-and-serve foods, such as TV dinners and re-heated airline meals. \n\nFood processing dates back to the prehistoric ages when crude processing incorporated fermenting, sun drying, preserving with salt, and various types of cooking (such as roasting, smoking, steaming, and oven baking), Such basic food processing involved chemical enzymatic changes to the basic structure of food in its natural form, as well served to build a barrier against surface microbial activity that caused rapid decay. Salt-preservation was especially common for foods that constituted warrior and sailors' diets until the introduction of canning methods. Evidence for the existence of these methods can be found in the writings of the ancient Greek, Chaldean, Egyptian and Roman civilizations as well as archaeological evidence from Europe, North and South America and Asia. These tried and tested processing techniques remained essentially the same until the advent of the industrial revolution. Examples of ready-meals also date back to before the preindustrial revolution, and include dishes such as Cornish pasty and Haggis. Both during ancient times and today in modern society these are considered processed foods.\n\nModern food processing technology developed in the 19th and 20th centuries was developed in a large part to serve military needs. In 1809 Nicolas Appert invented a hermetic bottling technique that would preserve food for French troops which ultimately contributed to the development of tinning, and subsequently canning by Peter Durand in 1810. Although initially expensive and somewhat hazardous due to the lead used in cans, canned goods would later become a staple around the world. Pasteurization, discovered by Louis Pasteur in 1864, improved the quality and safety of preserved foods and introduced the wine, beer, and milk preservation.\nIn the 20th century, World War II, the space race and the rising consumer society in developed countries contributed to the growth of food processing with such advances as spray drying, evaporation, juice concentrates, freeze drying and the introduction of artificial sweeteners, colouring agents, and such preservatives as sodium benzoate. In the late 20th century, products such as dried instant soups, reconstituted fruits and juices, and self cooking meals such as MRE food ration were developed. By the 20th century, automatic appliances like microwave oven, blender, and rotimatic paved way for convenience cooking.\n\nIn western Europe and North America, the second half of the 20th century witnessed a rise in the pursuit of convenience. Food processing companies marketed their products especially towards middle-class working wives and mothers. Frozen foods (often credited to Clarence Birdseye) found their success in sales of juice concentrates and \"TV dinners\". Processors utilised the perceived value of time to appeal to the postwar population, and this same appeal contributes to the success of convenience foods today.\n\nBenefits of food processing include toxin removal, preservation, easing marketing and distribution tasks, and increasing food consistency. In addition, it increases yearly availability of many foods, enables transportation of delicate perishable foods across long distances and makes many kinds of foods safe to eat by de-activating spoilage and pathogenic micro-organisms. Modern supermarkets would not exist without modern food processing techniques, and long voyages would not be possible.\n\nProcessed foods are usually less susceptible to early spoilage than fresh foods and are better suited for long-distance transportation from the source to the consumer. When they were first introduced, some processed foods helped to alleviate food shortages and improved the overall nutrition of populations as it made many new foods available to the masses.\n\nProcessing can also reduce the incidence of foodborne disease. Fresh materials, such as fresh produce and raw meats, are more likely to harbour pathogenic micro-organisms (e.g. Salmonella) capable of causing serious illnesses.\n\nThe extremely varied modern diet is only truly possible on a wide scale because of food processing. Transportation of more exotic foods, as well as the elimination of much hard labour gives the modern eater easy access to a wide variety of food unimaginable to their ancestors.\n\nThe act of processing can often improve the taste of food significantly.\nMass production of food is much cheaper overall than individual production of meals from raw ingredients. Therefore, a large profit potential exists for the manufacturers and suppliers of processed food products. Individuals may see a benefit in convenience, but rarely see any direct financial cost benefit in using processed food as compared to home preparation.\n\nProcessed food freed people from the large amount of time involved in preparing and cooking \"natural\" unprocessed foods. The increase in free time allows people much more choice in life style than previously allowed. In many families the adults are working away from home and therefore there is little time for the preparation of food based on fresh ingredients. The food industry offers products that fulfill many different needs: e.g. fully prepared ready meals that can be heated up in the microwave oven within a few minutes.\n\nModern food processing also improves the quality of life for people with allergies, diabetics, and other people who cannot consume some common food elements. Food processing can also add extra nutrients such as vitamins.\n\nProcessing of food can decrease its nutritional density. The amount of nutrients lost depends on the food and processing method. For example, heat destroys vitamin C. Therefore, canned fruits possess less vitamin C than their fresh alternatives. The USDA conducted a study of nutrient retention in 2004, creating a table of foods, levels of preparation, and nutrition.\n\nNew research highlighting the importance to human health of a rich microbial environment in the intestine indicates that abundant food processing (not fermentation of foods) endangers that environment.\n\nUsing some food additives represents another safety concern. The health risks of any given additive vary greatly from person to person; for example using sugar as an additive endangers diabetics. In the European Union, only European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) approved food additives (e.g., sweeteners, preservatives, stabilizers) are permitted at specified levels for use in food products. Approved additives receive an E number (E for Europe), simplifying communication about food additives included in the ingredients' list for all the different languages spoken in the EU. As effects of chemical additives are learned, changes to laws and regulatory practices are made to make such processed foods more safe.\n\nFood processing is typically a mechanical process that utilizes extrusion, large mixing, grinding, chopping and emulsifying equipment in the production process. These processes introduce a number of contamination risks. Such contaminates are left over material from a previous operation, animal or human bodily fluids, microorganisms, nonmetallic and metallic fragments. Further processing of these contaminates will result in downstream equipment failure and the risk of ingestion by the consumer. Example: A mixing bowl or grinder is used over time, metal parts in contact with food will tend to fail and fracture. This type of failure will introduce into the product stream small to large metal contaminants. Further processing of these metal fragments will result in downstream equipment failure and the risk of ingestion by the consumer. Food manufacturers utilize industrial metal detectors to detect and reject automatically any metal fragment. Large food processors will utilize many metal detectors within the processing stream to reduce both damage to processing machinery as well as risk to consumer health.\n\nFood processing does have some benefits, such as making food last longer and making products more convenient. However, there are drawbacks to relying on a lot of heavily processed foods. Whole foods and those that are only minimally processed, like frozen vegetables without any sauce, tend to be more healthy. An unhealthy diet high in fat, added sugar and salt, such as one containing a lot of highly-processed foods, can increase the risk for cancer, type 2 diabetes and heart disease, according to the World Health Organization.\n\nOne of the main sources for sodium in the diet is processed foods. Sodium is added to prevent spoilage, add flavor and improve the texture of these foods. Americans consume an average of 3,436 milligrams of sodium per day, which is way more than the recommended limit of 2,300 milligrams per day for healthy people, and more than twice the limit of 1,500 milligrams per day for those at increased risk for heart disease.\n\nWhile you don't need to limit the sugars found naturally in whole, unprocessed foods like fresh fruit, eating too much added sugar found in many processed foods can increase your risk for heart disease, obesity, cavities and Type 2 diabetes. The American Heart Association recommends women limit added sugars to no more than 100 calories, or 25 grams, and men limit added sugars to no more than 155 calories, or about 38.75 grams, per day. Currently, Americans consume an average of 355 calories from added sugars each day.\n\nProcessing foods often involves nutrient losses, which can make it harder to meet your needs if these nutrients aren't added back through fortification or enrichment. For example, using high heat during processing can cause vitamin C losses. Another example is refined grains, which have less fiber, vitamins and minerals than whole grains. Eating refined grains, such as those found in many processed foods, instead of whole grains may increase your risk for high cholesterol, diabetes and obesity, according to a study published in \"The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition\" in December 2007.\n\nFoods that have undergone processing, including some commercial baked goods, desserts, margarine, frozen pizza, microwave popcorn and coffee creamers, sometimes contain trans fats. This is the most unhealthy type of fat, and may increase your risk for high cholesterol, heart disease and stroke. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends keeping your trans fat intake as low as possible.\n\nProcessed foods may actually take less energy to digest than whole foods, according to a study published in \"Food & Nutrition Research\" in 2010, meaning you retain more of the calories they contain. Processed foods also tend to be more allergenic than whole foods, according to a June 2004 \"Current Opinion in Allergy and Clinical Immunology\" article. Although the preservatives and other food additives used in many processed foods are generally recognized as safe, a few may cause problems for some individuals, including sulfites, artificial sweeteners, artificial colors and flavors, sodium nitrate, BHA and BHT, olestra, caffeine and monosodium glutamate.\n\nWhen designing processes for the food industry the following performance parameters may be taken into account:\n\nThe rigorous application of industry and government endorsed standards to minimise possible risk and hazards. The international standard adopted is HACCP.\n\n\nFood processing industries and practices include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "1804420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1804420", "title": "Gedeon Richter plc", "text": "Gedeon Richter plc\n\nRichter Gedeon Nyrt. is a Hungarian multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology company headquartered in Budapest, Hungary. It is one of the largest companies of the industry in the Central and Eastern European region and has operations in over 40 countries.\n\nThe company sells products for gynecology, the central nervous system, and cardiology areas among other therapeutic areas. The company was established in Budapest by Gedeon Richter, a pharmacist, in 1901. The establishment of his firm marked the beginning of the development of the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry.\n\nGedeon Richter plc has a primary listing on the Budapest Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the BUX Index. It had a market capitalisation of approximately $4 billion as of November 2015, the third largest of any company with a primary listing on the Budapest Stock Exchange. It has secondary listings on Euronext.\n\nInitially, small-scale pharmaceutical production took place in the Arany Sas (Golden Eagle) Pharmacy, which still operates today. Independent pharmaceutical research and production activities were launched in Hungary in those days. However, pharmaceutical production at an industrial scale necessitated heavy investments, and large-scale pharmaceutical manufacturing activities were considered to be extremely capital-intensive operations, even by the established standards in Western countries. Initially, the laboratory that operated on the premises of the pharmacy processed extracts from organs of animals and produced organotherapeutic drugs.\n\nThe plant was built in 1907 in the Kőbánya suburb of Budapest. In compliance with the established international trends of the pharmaceutical industry in those days, the company produced herbal drugs, processed extracts from plants and manufactured synthetic products at a later date. The company became a highly recognized manufacturer of lecithin products, antiseptic and febrifuge products, as well as painkillers (Hyperol, Kalmopyrin, and Tonogen, which continue to be in use).\n\nIn 1934, Constant Janssen, of the future Janssen Pharmaceuticals, acquired the distribution rights for Gedeon Richter's products.\n\nThe corporation has two plants today: the headquarters in Budapest, and a subsidiary in Dorog which has been operating since 1967. \nIn October 2010, Gedeon Richter plc acquired 100% of a private Swiss drug company, Preglem, for CHF 445 million (€337 million).\nThe company has joint ventures in India with Themis Medicare, and in Germany, with Helm AG.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25097081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25097081", "title": "George Myers (hotelier)", "text": "George Myers (hotelier)\n\nGeorge Myers is a Bahamian hotelier and businessman.\n\nMyers was born in Jamaica, where his family was in the hotel business. \nAs a child, he worked in family-owned Miranda Lodge in Montego Bay. He worked in London as a management trainee at the Westbury Hotel before moving to the Bahamas in 1963.\n\nMyers is one of the most successful businessman in the Bahamas. He has been credited with playing a major part in the development of Paradise Island into a premier tourist destination in the Bahamas.\n\nMyers is the chairman and CEO of the Myers Group which was created in 1992. The Myers Group owns the Bahamian franchises for Burger King, Dunkin' Donuts, Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC), and Quiznos Subs. The group previously operated the Radisson Cable Beach Hotel. \n\nMyers was executive vice president of Resorts International from 1977 to 1992. Myers has served in the past as president of the Bahamas Hotel Employers Association, the Bahamas Hotel Association, and the Caribbean Hotel Association.\n\nIn 1998, Myers was given the Government’s Silver Jubilee Award in recognition of “outstanding contribution to national development, in particular, in tourism”.\n\nIn 2006, Myers was awarded the Sir Clement Maynard Lifetime Achievement award at the Cacique Awards.\n\nIn 2009, he was awarded the Bahamian Chamber of Commerce's Achievement Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "45364460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45364460", "title": "H. Thomas Johnson", "text": "H. Thomas Johnson\n\nH. Thomas Johnson (born 1938) is an American accounting historian, and Professor of Business Administration at Portland State University, known for his work on the history of accounting and accounting thought \n\nJohnson obtained his BA in economics from Harvard University and his MBA in accounting from Rutgers University. For his graduate studies he moved to the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he obtained a PhD in economic history. He went on to earn a Certified Public Accountant license.\n\nAfter graduation Johnson started as accountant at Arthur Andersen. In the early 1970s he started his academic career at the University of Western Ontario as Assistant Professor of Economics, and by 1975 was Associate Professor of Economics. In 1980 he was appointed Professor of Accounting at the Western Washington University. In 1988 he move to the Portland State University, where he was appointed Professor of Business Administration. At the Bainbridge Graduate Institute in Washington he is also appointed Distinguished Consulting Professor of Sustainable Business.\n\nA 2003 survey by Harvard Business School Press placed him among the 200 leading management thinkers living today. The American Society for Quality awarded him the Deming Medal, and in 2007 he received a distinguished lifetime achievement award from the American Accounting Association.\n\nJohnson's research interests are in the field of \"the intersection of systems thinking, modern physics, and sustainable operations management. He is exploring the application of natural living system principles to the design of ecologically-focused local business operations that emulate and extend the scope of the Toyota Production System.\"\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "18507998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18507998", "title": "Henry Archer Ekers", "text": "Henry Archer Ekers\n\nHenry Archer Ekers (18 September 1855 – 31 January 1937) was a Canadian industrialist and politician, the Mayor of Montreal, Quebec between 1906 and 1908. He ran unsuccessfully for the House of Commons of Canada as a Conservative in 1900 and 1908.\n\nEkers' parents were both born in England. Relocated to Montreal, his father became a brewery owner, working from St. Lawrence Boulevard.\n\nHe was educated at the Montreal Collegiate School before joining his father's company, Ekers Brewery. Ekers eventually founded National Breweries Limited.\n\nEkers represented the St. Lawrence ward on Montreal city council.\n\n"}
{"id": "34592703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34592703", "title": "Henry Joseph Kelliher", "text": "Henry Joseph Kelliher\n\nHenry Joseph Kelliher (né Keliher) was born in Waikerikeri, near Clyde in Central Otago, New Zealand on 2 March 1896; the son of an Irish immigrant Michael Keliher who came to New Zealand during the Goldrush in Central Otago. Information about his early years is not plentiful but moved to the Wairarapa at the age of 17 to work as a Drover in Carterton prior to the outbreak of World War One.\n\nWhen war broke out in Europe in 1914 Kelliher enlisted with the Otago Mounted Rifles as served as a Trooper until he was transferred during service at Gallipoli in 1915. Kelliher survived the Gallipoli campaign and served in France at the Somme in a specialised Trench Warfare mortar team until he was gassed and invalided to Britain in 1917.\n\nWhile in Britain recovering from injuries sustained during the War, Kelliher met his to-be wife Evelyn. They were married in Belfast, Northern Ireland on 17 July 1917 in the Roman Catholic faith. She had been previously married but widowed at an early age. The family would go on to have 4 daughters and a son, Henry Kelliher Jr, a Painter who pre-deceased his father.\nThe Kelliher family was survived by several branches including the Rosser and White families of two of his daughters who are currently involved with his charitable Trusts; and the Stephens family, through his son. Kelliher has several dozen grandchildren and great grandchildren around New Zealand, Australia and the rest of the world.\n\nBy the time the war ended in 1918, Kelliher and his new wife had returned to New Zealand and began farming in the Wairarapa. He pulled out of farming to invest in the Marquis of Normanby Hotel in Carterton, one of the few licensed drinking venues in the Wairarapa area due to the dry-state that the town of Masterton had been placed in several years earlier. Through this investment Kelliher began to grow his fortunes and soon began investing in other local drinking establishments and hotels. From 1922 Kelliher chose to base himself in Auckland where he saw the potential for investment opportunities and soon began acquiring agent licenses for key brands of spirit such as Dewar's White Label Whisky in 1926. He also invested in the New Zealand magazine \"Ladies Mirror\" in which he promoted the rights of progressive women and extolled the rights of women, particularly those widowed young after the war, to engage in education and trade. He also used this magazine to begin his campaign on monetary reform after he took editorial control of the magazine in 1930.\n\nUnlike many businessmen during this era, it was by 1929–1930 that Kelliher had made an exceptionally comfortable living having not yet reaching 35. He chose however to continue his business ventures, choosing to invest with a South Auckland Brewing family run by Morton Coutts. Through this Brewery Henry Kelliher founded the company of Dominion Breweries which would eventually become a household name in New Zealand. Kelliher used his investment prowess to continue to purchase hotels and other drinking establishments across New Zealand to promote the brands he was creating as well as acquiring other leading international and local beer and spirit brands; these actions leading to the Australian Stock exchange considering Dominion Breweries one of the leading enterprises of New Zealand.\n\nKelliher at this time was considered one of the 10 richest men in New Zealand and was appointed by the Michael Savage led Labour Government to act as the Government representative Director on the Bank of New Zealand, prior to its Nationalisation. He served in this capacity from 1936 to 1942, when despite the war, he felt his principles had to take precedence over what he felt was inappropriate financial action on behalf of the Government. During the war his businesses remained steady and ensured that Dominion Breweries kept paying those staffers who had signed up for active war service, something he could no longer undertake due to age and prior injury. He also oversaw the embarkment of several consignments of lager for the servicemen stationed in the Middle east. After the war, Kelliher's business skyrocketed with a market share of approximately 20% of all liquor and other alcohols in New Zealand being from one of his breweries or licensed hotels; it has been opined that Kelliher's actions effectively created the current situation in New Zealand where most drinking establishments are aligned to one major brewery or another despite Dominion Breweries no longer owning the vast majority of the former hotels. By the 1960s DB Breweries was a leading brand and Kelliher although still very active as Managing director of the Company had his eyes on new ventures.\n\nKelliher has begun his engagement in Philanthropy through the magazine, \"Ladies Mirror\" in the early 1930s but it was in 1956 when he created the Kelliher Art Prize, that this became a leading component of his investment. The prizes consisted of an award of 500 Pounds to those artists that produced what he felt was a great example of New Zealand landscape scenery, from the early 1960s he included a separate non-abstract watercolor painting component of the prize. In 1989 Kelliher stated:\n\n\" I believe it was those early memories of the Central Otago landscape that made me decide, years later, to finance the Kelliher Art Awards, so that our artists here might be encouraged to record the beauty of the country for posterity\" \n\nThis prizes today is considered in mixed light due in part to the considerations by some art critics, such as Hamish Keith, as being detrimental to the growth of New Zealand art due to the strict parameters of the prizes, but other critics have noted that leading New Zealand artists Gordon Walters and Colin McCahon were among the winners of the prize. The Art collection is now administered by the Kelliher Art Trust. The Prize was discontinued as an annual award in 1977 due to the growth of New Zealand art but the Charitable Trust still engages in purchases and the promotion of Exhibitions through his descendants.\n\nHenry Kelliher also established the Kelliher Economic Prize for schools which was initially established in 1963 and is still annually awarded.\n\nFor his services to the community he was honoured by the Queen in 1963 during her visit to New Zealand where he was appointed a Knight Bachelor for his services to Philanthropy. He was also created a Knight of Justice of the Knights of Saint John and granted the post nominals KStJ.\n\nKelliher stepped down from active involvement in Dominion Breweries in 1982, taking on the Honorary title of Founding President. From this time on he mostly remained at Puketutu Island which he had owned since the 1950s. Puketutu Island, in the Manukau Harbour, is a large island, now connected to the mainland off the coast of the Auckland airport. Here Kelliher had spent several decades raising champion Bulls, Stud Horses and Racing stock such as the former Champion Racehorses Cardigan Bay and Easton Light among others of which he used many for stud upon their retirement. He practised yoga well into old age.\n\nFollowing his son's early death in 1984 and his wife Evelyn's death in 1986 he withdrew to Puketutu island. He stayed semi-active in the community until his death in September 1991 at the age of 95. He was survived by his daughters, grandchildren and numerous great-grandchildren. He was buried in Hillsborough Cemetery in Auckland overlooking Manukau Harbour and Puketutu Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "22815052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22815052", "title": "Institutional Investor (magazine)", "text": "Institutional Investor (magazine)\n\nInstitutional Investor magazine is a monthly periodical published by Euromoney Institutional Investor. It was founded in 1967 by Gilbert E. Kaplan. A separate international edition of the magazine was established in 1976 for readers in Europe and Asia. Capital Cities Communications purchased the magazine in 1984. The Walt Disney Company bought Capital Cities in 1996 and sold the magazine to Euromoney a year later. \"Institutional Investor\" has offices in New York City, London and Hong Kong.\n\n\"Institutional Investor\" publishes global research and issues rankings throughout the year that often serve as industry benchmarks. Top-line results are published in the magazine while the full details are available on institutionalinvestor.com. The rankings include:\n\nExecutive Teams\n\nResearch Teams\n\nInstitutional Investor’s Alpha is a quarterly magazine that focuses on the global hedge fund industry. It was launched in 2003 under the original title, \"Alpha\", to cover the fast-growing hedge fund industry. Throughout the year, the magazine conducts and releases proprietary research and rankings that serve as benchmarks for the hedge fund industry. It was established in 2009, as a successor to the magazine \"Alpha\".\n\nInstitutional Investor publishes 11 finance research journals under the brand Institutional Investor Journals. \"The Journal of Portfolio Management\" was launched in 1974 by \"Peter L. Bernstein\" and is currently edited by Frank J. Fabozzi.\n\n"}
{"id": "5328818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5328818", "title": "Journal Editorial Report", "text": "Journal Editorial Report\n\nThe Journal Editorial Report is a weekly American interview and panel discussion TV program on Fox News Channel, hosted by Paul Gigot, editorial page editor of \"The Wall Street Journal\". Prior to moving to Fox News, the show aired on PBS for 15 months, ending on December 2, 2005.\n\nOpening with a newsmaker of the week, Gigot usually interviews a guest for the first half of the program, asking questions related to the writings of the guest or a current event of interest to the guest.\n\nFollowing the guest segment, the program becomes a panel discussion of \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial writers giving their opinions on the political, economic, and cultural issues of the current week. The final segment labeled \"Hits and Misses\" lets the panelists comment on the best and worst stories or events of the week.\n\nThe program is broadcast Saturdays at 3:00 p.m. and Sundays at 3:00 p.m. (Eastern)\n\nThe transcript of each show appears on OpinionJournal.com on the following Monday.\n\nThese \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial staff appear on the show:\n\nThe following is a representative list the people who appeared as guests in 2007:\n\n"}
{"id": "6798986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6798986", "title": "Kichimatsu Kishi", "text": "Kichimatsu Kishi\n\nKichimatsu Kishi (岸 吉松 \"Kishi Kichimatsu\", ?–1956) was a Japanese immigrant to the United States who worked as a farmer and businessman. Along with fellow immigrants from Japan, his impact on rice farming in the southern United States would change the agricultural industry of the region. Kishi would establish an agricultural colony in Southeast Texas and would own an oil company. Born as one of eight children to a Japanese banker, he attended Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo, Japan, but was taken from his studies in 1904 to fight in the Russo-Japanese War.\n\nHe was eventually sent to Manchuria on the mainland of China where he remained until the Japanese victory in 1905. He considered remaining there, but the high cost of land and lawlessness prompted him to return to his homeland. Years earlier, Sadatsuchi Uchida (Japan’s consul to the United States) toured the southern United States in 1902. Uchida reported back to Japan with promising news that the rice farming was underdeveloped and showed potential for large profit. At the time, the dense population of Japan and limited workable land meant that many rice farmers would never own their own land. This sparked Kishi’s interest in migrating to the United States in 1906.\n\nKishi looked for suitable land, starting in California and moving on to the Carolinas, and finally discovering the area near the town of Terry in central Orange County, Texas ideal. Located as one of the stops of the Texas and New Orleans Railroad, Terry was a lumber and agricultural town with nearby bayous that could be tapped for irrigation.\nIt was here that Kishi would establish what is now known as the Kishi Colony. He purchased a land tract of approximately with borrowed money in 1907, and by the following year, his family would reside there with the first rice crop established.\n\nLater, when the Sabine River was dredged for ships nearby, the saltwater of the nearby gulf was allowed to flow into the bayou used to irrigate the rice field, destroying the crop.\nKishi then diversified his farm to grow other vegetables such as cotton, corn, and cabbage. The Kishi Colony attracted other Japanese immigrants from states like California that at the time, prohibited people such as Japanese and other foreigners from owning land there.\n\nIt was also not uncommon to see people of different heritages such as Mexicans, Cajuns, and African-Americans working within the colony. After the passage of the California Alien Land Law of 1913, many more Japanese would begin to migrate to Texas. Though the Japanese were initially welcomed, hostility arose against their moving in. The Texas Legislature passed a law similar to California's, but many of the Japanese-Texans had enough political influence to weaken it, while still maintaining their land ownership.\n\nThe discovery of oil on the Kishi property in 1919 attracted the interest of Isoroku Yamamoto, who in 1921 was touring the United States oil producing facilities in response to Japan’s growing navy. Yamamoto’s meeting with Kishi would help spark his interest in forming the Orange Petroleum Company. For several years, it seemed Kishi would succeed greatly. He did make enough money to pay back his debtors. During this time Kishi would continue to purchase land. Yamamoto visited the site again in 1924 and found the oil production doing well.\n\nOnly several years later, the wells would run dry and the oil venture finally ended in 1925. Afterward, the Great Depression would also have a negative impact on the Kishi colony. Crop disease along with harsh weather destroyed the produce of the farm. In September 1931, Kishi lost his land to foreclosure. His son Taro, who had been working with a Japanese shipping company at the time, helped support his family by buying a small farm near Orange. The Kishi family managed to lease a portion of their former land as well.\n\nYears later, Kichimatsu Kishi was detained by authorities and kept for two months at Camp Kenedy near San Antonio after the Attack on Pearl Harbor, most likely due to his previous contact with Yamamoto. With the influence of the prominent businessmen of Orange such as the Stark and Sims families, he was released back to the community without restriction.\n\nKichimatsu’s son Taro would become Texas A&M University’s first Asian student. As a highly regarded football player, Taro Kishi helped Texas A&M win a Southwest Conference championship and was one of the early great APA athletes. He graduated in 1926 with a degree in agriculture.\n\nThe Texas Historical Commission has constructed a marker on road FM 1135 seven miles (11 km) southeast of Vidor, Texas in recognition of the accomplishments of Kishi and his colony to the region. In this same area, a road that runs through the central part of Orange County was named \"Jap Lane\" years back, supposedly in honor of the Japanese for the positive impact on the agriculture of the region. However, the word Jap is now considered a racial slur and the road's name has been targeted by civil rights groups. In July 2005, Orange County has changed it to Duncanwoods Lane, Japanese Lane and Cajun Way. In 2007, FM 1135 received a new recognition as \"Kishi Road\" with a marker.\n\n"}
{"id": "11418170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11418170", "title": "List of worker cooperatives", "text": "List of worker cooperatives\n\nThis is a list of worker cooperatives by country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2616955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2616955", "title": "Listing contract", "text": "Listing contract\n\nA listing contract (or listing agreement) is a contract between a real estate broker and an owner of real property granting the broker the authority to act as the owner's agent in the sale of the property.\n\nIf the broker is a member of the National Association of Realtors, the agreement must include all of the following terms:\n\n\nIn addition, other terms which may appear in the agreement can include:\n\n\nTypically, separate listing agreements exist for the sale of residential property, for land, and for commercial or business property.\nUpon listing the property, the real estate agency tries to obtain a buyer for the property and, in consideration of successfully finding a satisfactory buyer, the broker anticipates receiving a commission (fee) for the services the brokerage provided.\n\nAlthough the terms of the contract could vary, usually the payment of a commission (or fee) to the brokerage is contingent upon:\n\nIf the seller refuses to sell the real estate when one of the above two conditions applies, it is typically considered that the real estate agent has done their job of finding a satisfactory buyer and the seller must still pay the commission, although the details are determined by the listing contract. Unless closing (or \"settlement\" or \"close of escrow\", as it is known in some parts of the country) is a condition of the listing agreement, the buyer's failure to complete the transaction may not require the seller to pay a commission to the broker.\n\nThe commission is usually a percentage of the sales price of the property ranging from 2 or 3% up to about 10%, but usually in the range of about 3 - 7% for houses. The commission could also be a flat fee or some combination of flat fee and percentage, based on the rate you negotiate. Commission rates and fees are negotiable and not regulated. The average days to sale in your market, advertising, labor costs, length of term, and competition may influence the rate acceptable by the listing real estate broker before entering a listing agreement.\n\nThe commission is paid by the seller to the listing real estate broker, who will then compensate their listing agent and any co-operating brokers/agents from this commission by separate agreements with them.\n\nThe listing contract typically also includes a listing price for the property and a date of expiration by which the contract expires. However, if the property is sold at a lower or higher price, the seller pays a commission at a proportionally lower or higher amount. If the seller does not accept a price lower than the listing price, then the broker will have to wait until a satisfactory sale to earn the commission.\n\nIn the event of multiple offers being presented, the seller may accept whichever offer is most suitable to him/her, even if the price is not the highest. The percentage commission will be paid according to the accepted price. The seller, often in concurrence with the real estate agent, may choose to accept an offer that is lower than the highest offer for various reasons, such as terms or contingencies in the purchase contract offered or perceived differences in financial qualification of the competing buyers.\n\nTypically, the real estate agent has the experience and data to determine a suitable listing price for the seller's property and will recommend a listing price to the seller. The seller can accept, reject, or try to negotiate a different listing price for the contract. If the seller's price is unrealistically high and the agent cannot convince the seller otherwise, the agent can decline to list the property.\n\nListing a property commonly incurs certain expenses for the listing broker and takes some time and effort for the listing salesperson. To make it worthwhile, they want a certain minimum listing time period to have a good chance of selling the property. However, the listing contract must have an expiration date. A typical listing period is often three to six months. If the property is not sold or under a purchase contract by then, the seller may decide to re-list the property, perhaps with a different listing price, with the same or a different broker or agent, or not list it at all. The listing of the property can start at a date later than the date the listing contract is signed to allow the seller time to prepare the property for showing or sale.\n\nThere can be several types of listing contracts:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1143794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1143794", "title": "Mary Rockefeller", "text": "Mary Rockefeller\n\nMary Todhunter Clark Rockefeller (June 17, 1907 – April 21, 1999) was the first wife of Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, a Governor of New York. She served as the First Lady of New York from 1959 until the Rockefellers' divorce in March 1962. After their divorce, Nelson Rockefeller served as the 41st Vice President of the United States.\n\nKnown as \"Tod\" to her family, she was born in Philadelphia. Her father, Percy Hamilton Clark, was an attorney and noted cricketer, and her mother was Elizabeth Williams Roberts, daughter of George B. Roberts, a former president of the Pennsylvania Railroad. \n\nShe married Nelson Rockefeller on June 23, 1930, at St. Asaph's Episcopal Church in Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, with a reception at the home of her parents, a few days after Nelson had graduated from Dartmouth College. They had five children: Rodman Rockefeller, Ann Rockefeller, Steven Clark Rockefeller, and twins Michael Clark Rockefeller and Mary Rockefeller.\n\nMary Rockefeller divorced her husband on March 16, 1962. A year later, \"Happy\" Murphy became the governor's second wife. \n\nMary Todhunter Rockefeller died in New York City in 1999 at the age of 91.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1484982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1484982", "title": "Masaru Hayami", "text": "Masaru Hayami\n\nHayami was born in Hyōgo Prefecture. He graduated from The Tokyo College of Commerce (now Hitotsubashi University) in 1947.\nHayami was Chief Executive Officer of the Nissho Iwai Corporation,\n\nHe served as Governor of the Bank of Japan from March 20, 1998 to March 19, 2003. He took over the top BOJ role in 1998, after Governor Yasuo Matsushita and Deputy Governor Toshihiko Fukui resigned in connection with a scandal involving leaks of financially sensitive information.\n\nHayami was a controversial BOJ governor because he insisted Japanese politicians must change the structure of the economy before the BOJ could take further measures to end deflation.\n\nHe fiercely resisted politicians' demand to loosen monetary policy, thereby increasing the pressure on politicians to reduce stifling regulation, monopolies, and oligopolies in various economic sectors. This strategy stressed Japan's long-term economic health over the short term problems of deflation and recession.\n\nIn a statistical overview derived from writings by and about Masaru Hayami, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses roughly 9 works in 9 publications in 1 language and 20+ library holdings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22704125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22704125", "title": "Melissa Disney", "text": "Melissa Disney\n\nMelissa Disney (born November 20, 1970) is an Emmy-nominated American actress, voice actress, singer-songwriter, writer, and film producer. Her best known role to date was as the voice of the titular character in the popular Nickelodeon animated series \"As Told by Ginger\".\n\nDisney was born Melissa Femling on November 20, 1970, the daughter of Louise Gallagher, an occasional film actress, and Carl Femling, a writer. She has a familial connection to film and television; her maternal grandmother, Toy Gallagher, was a silent film actress who appeared in several films in the 1920s, and she has claimed to be a distant relative of American film producer and businessman Walt Disney, though how she is connected to the Disney family has never been made clear.\n\nDisney is one of a small number of women who do voice-over work for movie trailers. The trailer for \"Gone in 60 Seconds\", which she voiced in 2000, was one of the first by a major film studio to use a female voice.\n\nShe voices the title character Ginger Foutley in the animated cartoon \"As Told by Ginger\". She is also known for her role as Elora the Faun in \"\" and as Courtney Gears (a parody of Britney Spears) in \"\".\n\nShe appeared in actress Lake Bell's directorial debut, \"In a World...,\" a movie about voice artists. Disney appears in the film as the character Melinda Chisney.\n\nDisney is married to actor and writer Ryan Paul James. They were married on October 15, 2010, in San Diego, CA.\n\n\n\n\n\nDisney won a Key Art Award for voicing the \"Gone in 60 Seconds\" movie trailer.\n\n"}
{"id": "44487145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44487145", "title": "Mohammed Farooq", "text": "Mohammed Farooq\n\nMohammed Farooq Bin Mohammed Aqil Bin Ahmed Al Arshi also known as The Great Farooq was a member of the Farooq and Al Arshi Family. A Huwala (Sunni Persian) family, the Farooq / Faruk or Faruq (Arabic: فاروق) Al Arshi family originates from Saudi Arabia belonging to the Al Ansar tribe that settled in Iran in the Hormozgan Province in the year 1200 Hijri. The family is amongst the first of UAE’s business and aristocratic families.\n\nAfter Farooq's father Al Hajj Mohammed Aqil Bin Ahmed Bin Abdulwahid Al Arshi died, Mohammed Farooq, took over as the head of the family expanding the business internationally and mainly trading in diamonds, pearls and precious stones.\n\nToday Mohammed Farooq is remembered as the most famous pearl merchant of Lengeh, Bastak and the Persian Gulf. The Great Farooq’s generosity and hospitality earned him respect and a reputable status amongst Gulf royalty.\nAs of 2014, the majority of the family members reside in the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, and Canada. The Farooq Al Arshi family has close ties with the Al Khaldi, fikree and Al Ulama families. The Al Ulamas are also known as the Sheikh Sultan Al Ulama family.\n\n"}
{"id": "18903778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18903778", "title": "Monroe Avenue Commercial Buildings", "text": "Monroe Avenue Commercial Buildings\n\nThe Monroe Avenue Commercial Buildings, also known as the Monroe Block, is a historic district located along a block-and-a-half stretch at 16-118 Monroe Avenue in Detroit, Michigan, just off Woodward Avenue at the northern end of Campus Martius. The district was designated a Michigan State Historic Site in 1974 and listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975. The thirteen original buildings were built between 1852 and 1911 and ranged from two to five stories in height. The National Theatre, built in 1911, is the oldest surviving theatre in Detroit, a part of the city's original theatre district of the late 19th century, and the sole surviving structure from the original Monroe Avenue Commercial Buildings historic period.\n\nThe early buildings on the block were constructed in Victorian commercial style, designed by architects such as Sheldon and Mortimer Smith during the mid-to-late 19th century. The Johnson block, in particular, constituted what was at the time one of the last remaining blocks of pre-Civil War buildings in Detroit. In the nearby Randolph Street Commercial Buildings Historic District, the building at 1244 Randolph St. is a rare survivor from the 1840s. The Victorian styled Odd Fellows Building (1874) is located at the corner of Randolph and Monroe.\n\nThe Monroe buildings were occupied by numerous short-term tenants through the years, including grocers, confectioners, and saloons. In the early 20th century, a wave of European immigration brought jewelry shops, pawn shops, and tailors to the area.\n\nAt around the same time, the Campus Martius area was developing into the entertainment center of Detroit. The Detroit Opera House, then located on the north side of the Campus across Monroe Avenue from the buildings in this district, anchored the area, and, in 1901, the Wonderland vaudeville theatre moved next door.\n\nThe early 20th century was the dawn of the movie age, and in Detroit it began on Monroe Avenue. The first movie theater in Detroit, the Casino, was opened on Monroe Avenue in 1906 by John H. Kunsky. It was reputedly the second movie theatre in the world, and it propelled Kunsky to a 20-theatre empire worth $7 million in 1929. Later in 1906, Detroit's second movie theatre, the Bijou, opened literally two doors down from the Casino. These were the first of a string of theaters along this section of Monroe; three new movie theatre buildings were constructed in the area in the next five years: the Star (1907), designed by Frank G. Baxter and Henry A. O'Dell; the Columbia (1911), designed by the noted theatre architect C. Howard Crane; and the National Theater (1911), the only theatre designed by Albert Kahn. In addition, the Family Theater opened in 1914 in an older building in the district. Other nearby theaters included the Temple Theater at Woodward Avenue across Monroe, the Liberty (located behind the Star), and the Palace at 130-132 Monroe.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Detroit cinema hub centered around Grand Circus Park, with nearby Monroe Avenue receiving less attention.\n\nThe district was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1975. In early 1990, most of the aging structures were cleared away, leaving only the National Theater as a reminder of the history of the area.\n\nThe buildings that once stood in this site were a mix of pre- and post-Civil War architecture, along with a group of movie theaters from the early 20th century. \n\nJohn Constantine Williams, a member of one of Detroit's wealthiest mid-19th-century families and son of John R. Williams, built this structure in 1872-73, directly adjacent to his earlier structure (the first Williams block) at 32-42 Monroe. Architect Mortimer L. Smith designed the building. The building originally served as an office building, with storefronts on the ground floor. In 1880, the upper floors of the building were converted into the Kirkwood Hotel, which survived for a decade under various management. The lower floors remained commercial space. The building reverted to office space in the 1890s, then reopened as the Hotel Campus (later the Hotel Fowler) in 1901.\n\nIn 1909, most of the building was completely gutted and converted into the 934-seat Family Theater; the Family was converted to show movies in 1914. The Family stayed open through much of the century, and was renamed the Follies in 1967. Six years later, in 1973, the Follies burned to the ground. The Follies section of the building (including four of the seven bay Williams Block) was demolished soon thereafter, leaving only the three western-most commercial and retail spaces. In the late 1970s the city vacated the property, and the remainder was demolished in early 1990.\n\nThe second Williams Block was five stories tall, divided into bays containing three windows per floor; each floor had slightly different window shapes. The building was constructed of brick, sheathed on the front with sandstone. A cast iron cornice and flat roof topped the structure. Belt courses were located above and below windows, and additional decoration consisted of bas relief carvings and cast iron entablatures.\n\nThe first Williams block was built by John Constantine Williams in 1859, and was designed by architect Sheldon Smith. The building was originally used as an office building with commercial space on the first floor. In the late 1880s, the building was converted into a 52-room hotel, known first as the Stanwix, then as Gies' European hotel, with a restaurant on the first floor. In 1909, the hotel and restaurant was renamed the Berghoff, then the Tuxedo, and, in 1919, the Frontenac. The Hotel Berghoff was owned by Wm. D. C. Moebs & Co. who were also the proprietors of the adjoining Berghoff Cafe. In December 1913 Wm. D.C. Moebs opened the Cafe Frontenac next to the Hotel Berghoff. In 1918 the name of the hotel was changed to the Tuxedo Hotel and Grill still under the same owners. The name change was short lived because in 1919 the businesses were called the Frontenac Restaurant and the Frontenac Hotel Company still under the ownership of Wm. D.C. Moebs, President. The Frontenac Hotel remained in business through 1960. Wm. D.C. Moebs died November 16, 1921 and the once grand Frontenac Restaurant was sold to pay back taxes in 1923. By 1940, the restaurant had been replaced again with retail space, which remained in the building until the city of Detroit vacated the property in 1978. The building was demolished in early 1990.\n\nThe first Williams block was five stories tall, constructed of red brick with a flat roof, and measured 60 feet by 100 feet. The Monroe Avenue façade was separated into three bays, each with three windows. Brick was used decoratively on the façade, and cast iron crowns over the windows and column capitals accented the elevation. The original cast iron cornice was removed in 1942.\n\nThe Columbia Theater was built in 1911 for John H. Kunsky, and designed by C. Howard Crane to seat over 1000 people. When built, the theater had its own pipe organ and house orchestra. The Columbia was closed in 1956, and has since been demolished.\n\nHiram R. Johnson purchased land along Monroe in 1852 and constructed a series of commercial buildings collectively known as the \"Johnson Block.\" These buildings are the five located at 52-54, 58, 62, 66-68, and 70-72 Monroe Avenue.\n\nAll five buildings were constructed of brick and stood four stories tall, and were designed in a similar fashion. The first four (52-54, 58, 62, 66-68 Monroe) measured 20 feet wide and 100 feet deep, with three windows per story on the upper levels. The last building (70-72 Monroe) measured 30 feet wide and 100 feet deep, and was divided into two bays with two windows per bay on each story. Windows in all buildings were rectangular in shape with cast iron lintels featuring a scroll and urn motif. The buildings originally had a cornice at the top; these were removed in the 20th century, most in 1958. The buildings were demolished in early 1990.\n\nTwo of these five buildings were instrumental in the establishment of the movie theater business in Detroit. In 1905, William H Klatt opened a cent-odeon (similar to the nickelodeon) in a former furniture store at 62 Monroe. The next year, John H. Kunsky opened the first true movie house in Detroit, the Casino Theater, two doors away at 70-72 Monroe. Klatt quickly converted the Bijou into Detroit's second movie house and reopened it later in 1906 as \"The Bijou.\" The building remained a movie house for the next seventy years, changing its name to \"The New Bijou\" in 1918. In 1966, the New Bijou became \"The Cinex,\" an adult movie venue; it closed in 1978. Kunsky's Casino Theater, however, closed in 1915; later tenants in the space at 70-72 Monroe included the Famous Barrel Bar and Father and Son Shoes.\n\nTenants of the other Johnson Block buildings were primarily small commercial establishments and eateries. The tenants of 52-54 Monroe included a series of saloons in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, a soft drink shop/restaurant from 1913–1928, and a series of clothing and shoe stores until the 1970s, when the building was vacated. 58 Monroe had a series of tenants, including a jewellery store at the turn of the 20th century, followed by a lunch counter, pawn broker, clothing store, and another jewellery store. The building at 66-68 Monroe housed an umbrella factory from 1888–1912, then a pawnbroker, shoe repair shop, men's clothiers, and a bookstore.\n\nThe building at 74-78 Monroe was constructed in approximately 1852, fronting on both Monroe Avenue and Farmer Street. At the turn of the 20th century, a restaurant and saloon inhabited the first floor. Later tenants included a tailor, cigar store, and shoe stores. A barber shop operated continuously in the building from 1915 until the late 1970s, and a second-floor dentist's office existed from the 1920s through the late 1970s. The building was demolished in early 1990.\n\nThe building was originally virtually identical to the structure next door at 70-72 Monroe, including the cast iron lintels featuring an urn and scroll. The building was, however, set back four additional feet from Monroe Avenue. The building was four stories tall and constructed of red brick. Both the Monroe Avenue and Farmer Street facades had tall narrow windows with a combination of segmental and fully arched window tops, decorated with projecting brick.\n\nThis structure was built in 1907 as the Star Theater; it was designed by Frank G. Baxter and Henry A. O'Dell. The Star operated for only a year; in 1908 the theater changed into the Theatre Royale, and in 1912 it changed to the Royal Theater. The Royal closed in 1922. Afterward, a variety of retail establishments were housed in the building, including a cigar store, jewelers, shoe store, tailor, and barber. The building was demolished in early 1990.\n\nThe Star was a four-story building, measuring 20 feet wide and 100 feet deep, constructed of red brick, with yellow brick veneer. A large arched window on the Monroe facade fills the third and fourth stories. This facade originally had a thick cornice supported by scrolled brackets, and a decorative arch above the entrance. Seven rectangular windows per story are on the Farmer elevation. The theater space originally took up both the first and most of the second stories, and thus there was only a single window on the second floor at the rear. However, in 1922 after the closure of the Royal, the second story was extended all the way forward to the Monroe facade, adding windows along the Farmer elevation.\n\nThe building at 104-106 Monroe was constructed in approximately 1900. A saloon was the first tenant, followed by a tea store. For most of the life of the building, until it was vacated in the 1970s, ground-floor tenants included a lunch room and a clothing or shoe store. The building was demolished in early 1990.\n\nThe structure was four stories tall, 20 feet wide and 60 feet deep. The building originally had modest Italianate elements. However, the front facade was reworked in 1923, with the addition of white brick facing and alteration of the windows to large plates of glass.\n\nThe 800-seat National Theater, built in 1911, is the only known theatre designed by Albert Kahn and the oldest surviving theatre from the city's original theatre district of the 19th century. It operated as a movie theater until the 1920s, when competition from larger movie houses forced a change to a vaudeville venue. The National survived as a burlesque and adult entertainment theater until it closed in the 1970s.\n\nThe front facade of the National is dominated by an enormous arch flanked with twin towers and covered with white and blue terra cotta tiles. The façade has hundreds of lightbulbs built in, which accentuate the architectural features when lit. The National Theater is an outstanding example of Modernistic design, boasting a pair of terra cotta latticework towers, arched art glass windows, and colored Pewabic tiles on the facade.\n"}
{"id": "17592977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17592977", "title": "Norwegian Petroleum Institute", "text": "Norwegian Petroleum Institute\n\nThe Norwegian Petroleum Institute () is a Norwegian petroleum lobbying organization formed in 1970. Its purpose is to \"attend to and promote the common interest of the [petroleum] industry\".\n\nThe petroleum companies Esso Norge, YX Energi Norge, Norske Shell, Statoil Norge, AGA AS, Castrol Norge, Yara Industrial, Nynas, Valvoline Oil and Progas are behind the Norwegian Petroleum Institute. It also has ties with the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise. Its board consists of Håvard Kjærstad (ESSO), Tage Kruse (YX), Lars Inge Lunde (Shell), Dag Roger Rinde (Statoil), Sven Borger Fiedler (Castrol) and secretary Inger-Lise M. Nøstvik.\n\nIt has been criticized for manufacturing quasi-journalistic information and news, which was picked up by the Norwegian news media, and eventually had political impact.\n"}
{"id": "23521483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23521483", "title": "Odd Gleditsch Jr.", "text": "Odd Gleditsch Jr.\n\nOdd Gleditsch Jr. (born 16 May 1929) is a Norwegian businessperson.\n\nHe was born in Sandefjord as a son of Odd Gleditsch Sr. He was a second cousin once removed of Rolf, Ellen, Kristian and Henry Gleditsch.\n\nHe took his chemical engineering education in the United States. He was hired in his father's company Jotun Odd Gleditsch in 1953. He became CEO in 1967 and saw through a merger to form the company Jotun where he was CEO from 1972 to 1979. He was also chairman of the board from 1972 to 2000.\n"}
{"id": "34384987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34384987", "title": "Puerta de Hierro, Guadalajara", "text": "Puerta de Hierro, Guadalajara\n\nPuerta de Hierro () (\"Iron Gate\" in English) is a neighborhood in Zapopan, Mexico, as part of the metropolitan area of Guadalajara. It was developed through a joint venture by the Leaño family, owners of the Universidad Autónoma de Guadalajara and the Gómez Flores family, owners of GIG, Minsa, Grupo Geo and Dina.\n\nThe neighborhood is located on Avenida Patria, in the west-center part of Zapopan, in the northwest part of the Guadalajara Metropolitan Area. It sits on roughly 500 acres, and includes a residential area, shopping mall, and business district. It is notorious for its affluent population as well as the large amount of high-rise development in the business district which includes the second-tallest building in the metro area, the \"Aura Altitude\", surpassed only by the RIU Plaza Hotel in south Guadalajara. It is also home to the \"Centro Médico Puerta de Hierro\", one of the most prestigious hospitals in the country, built using private funds and a US$14.5 million loan from the International Finance Corporation, the private-sector lending arm of the World Bank.\n\nThe best known attraction is the Andares Shopping Mall, a high-end shopping mall located in the southeastern edge of the neighborhood. Andares is one of the most exclusive shopping centers in Mexico: a US$530 million complex, featuring some of the best known brands in the world, such as Louis Vuitton, Burberry, Dolce & Gabbana, Dior, Salvatore Ferragamo, Swarovski, and Lacoste. As part of the complex and the surrounding area, \"the Andares zone\" includes a Hyatt Hotel-condo (construction starting in 2015), luxury residencies designed by Mexican architect Juan Sordo Madaleno, as well as Ferrari, Maserati, BMW, Mercedes, Audi, Volvo and Lincoln dealerships. The zone is also home to the new offices of Oracle and U-Fit, one of the most exclusive gyms in Latin America. \n\nSince the opening of Andares in December 2008, and based on those investments as well as other developments, the property value has been increasing to prices never seen before in the Guadalajara Metropolitan Area a continuous trend expected to grow even more. The price of land averages over US$1,000 per square meter, and the apartments range in prices from US$300,000 to US$2,000,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "10899494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10899494", "title": "Robert Ng", "text": "Robert Ng\n\nRobert Ng Chee Siong (, born 1952) is the chairman of Hong Kong property development conglomerate Sino Group, a position he has held since 1981. \n\nHe is the eldest son of the late Ng Teng Fong, the Singaporean real estate billionaire. Forbes listed the two as the 30th richest people in the world in 1997. As of July 2017, Robert, along with his brother Philip Ng, has an estimated net worth of $9.7 billion.\n\nNg was speculating in futures contracts on the Hong Kong Futures Exchange through two Panamanian-registered companies when the October 1987 global stock market crash began; his paper losses reportedly reached HK$1 billion. At first, Ng refused to pay, claiming to be protected by the limited liability of the companies through which he had traded. This led to the collapse of the futures exchange; trading was also halted on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for four days. An investigation by the Commercial Crime Bureau of the Royal Hong Kong Police revealed that Ng had avoided required margin calls through collusion with one of his brokers. However, in the end, no charges were laid against Ng because the colonial government of Hong Kong felt that prosecuting him would pose a risk to overall market stability. Instead, a deal was worked out which saw Ng repay HK$500 million, with Hong Kong taxpayers providing the rest of the funds needed by the Exchange through a government bailout. Ng reportedly lost a total of US$250 million in his various investment holdings as a result of the crash.\n\nIn June 1995, Ng took over as chairman of Yeo Hiap Seng (YHS), a Singapore-listed food and beverages company which had lost US$3.2 million in its previous year of operation. His chairmanship came at the same time as his family increased its stake in the company to 24.9%, just short of the 25% threshold above which they would be required by law to make an offer to buy out all other shareholders. This marked a step forward in his fight with Malaysian billionaire investor Quek Leng Chan for control of YHS and its land holdings in Singapore's Bukit Timah district, which could be worth billions of dollars were they redeveloped into residential real estate. In the end, Ng and his father were able to successfully take advantage of squabbles within the Yeo family to buy up 86% of YHS' stock. Their battle to gain control of the company was later described as \"one of the most colourful take-over struggles in Singapore history\" and led to YHS' transformation from a food company to a luxury real estate developer.\n\nThe Sino Group also spun off their hotel interests into a new company, Sino Hotels, in that year; Ng became chairman of the board of the new company as well from its inception. In early 1997, under Ng's direction, Sino Hotels made several acquisitions, including an 80% stake in the local branch of the Conrad Hotel for HK$2 billion. Ng also predicted that office properties would perform well during that year. For the latter six months of that year, Sino Hotels reported a 66% fall in net interim profits and 80% fall in operating profit, which Ng attributed to lower contributions not just from hotels but from the company's Fortune chain of Chinese restaurants as well. However, the Conrad proved to be a resilient investment, with the average room rate increasing by 14.7% during the months in question.\n\n, Ng is the director of a number of subsidiaries and associated companies of Sino Group:\n\n\nDue to his business positions, Ng wields a significant amount of power under Hong Kong's functional constituency system. In 1998, he and companies owned by Sino Group controlled roughly 3–4% of the votes in the real estate constituency, and an additional two votes in the tourism constituency. The voting power he wields through this system has been described as equivalent to anywhere from 6,100 to 15,940 votes in geographic constituencies, which has led to criticism by the \"Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor\".\n\nNg has spoken out in support of the \"Application List\" system for the sale of government land and in 2008 remained publicly optimistic about the prospects for the Hong Kong property market.\n\nNg is married to Yeoh Saw Kheng (楊素瓊) a fellow ethnic Chinese of Cantonese descent, who is the 3rd daughter of Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng, the former Speaker of Parliament of Singapore\n\nNg's eldest son Daryl Ng Win Kong (黃永光) was born in 1978. He holds Singaporean citizenship and joined the mandatory military service; at the same time, he speaks passionately about his Hong Kong root and childhood spent in Hong Kong, reminding that he was born at Queen Mary Hospital and attended Diocesan Boys' School rather than an international school in his youth. He later studied in the United States, where he graduated from Columbia University in 2003, and after two years as a project manager in Sino Group was appointed an executive director in 2005. He is generally expected to be his father's successor. In 2007 he began to take a more public role, first appearing at a land auction with his father in October that year. During his first time speaking with the media about the property market in March 2008, he spoke only briefly. Since then he has spoken on various occasions and has taken up public duties. He advocates sustainability and heritage, and champions projects like mini hydro power, food waste management, Tai O Heritage Hotel in Hong Kong and The Fullerton Heritage in Singapore. He is married with a son and a daughter. Ng also has two younger sons David Ng Win Loong (黃永龍) and Alexander Ng Win Yew (黃永耀).\n\nNg's eldest daughter, Nikki Ng Mien Hua (黃敏華) attended Yale University as an undergraduate, and went on to receive a master's degree from the University of London's School of Oriental and African Studies. She was later appointed to the position of general manager of the Sino Group. Her activities outside of Sino Group include membership of the 11th Qingdao Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. Ng also has two younger daughters Jeanne Ng Mien Yi (黃敏儀) and Christine Ng Mien Yin (黃敏音).\n\nBeginning in the late 1990s, the family became more active in the Hong Kong Jockey Club. Daryl, Nikki, and Jeanne own four horses between them, while the elder Ng himself owns eight and his wife one. At one point in 2002, Ng was said to be interested in joining the 12-member board of stewards of the Hong Kong Jockey Club; however, some of the club's 200 voting members objected due to Ng's conduct during the futures market collapse in 1987.\n\nBoth Daryl and Nikki are members of the five-person board of the Hong Kong Heritage Conservation Foundation. The HKHCF was initially set up under the name Nice Brilliant Limited in December 2007, and changed its name in March 2008. In October 2008, the HKHCF made a bid for the revitalisation of the Old Tai O Police Station, with the intention of turning it into a boutique hotel; legislators looked suspiciously at the foundation's ties to the Sino Group, with Fernando Cheung accusing them of being a \"one-man NGO\" set up for business purposes rather than social service. The HKHCF's bid was eventually successful; the project, Tai O Heritage Hotel, was opened on 1 March 2012, with an estimated cost of HK$64.9 million.\n\nNg's father Ng Teng Fong died in Singapore on 2 February 2010 at the age of 82 after suffering a cerebral haemorrhage. Ng said his father was \"always optimistic and hardworking\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3690016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3690016", "title": "Rodryg Dunin", "text": "Rodryg Dunin\n\nRodryg Dunin (June 26, 1870 – October 26, 1928) was a Polish noble (szlachta), a hrabia (Count), and an industrialist and agriculturalist. His work in agricultural industry, including pioneering new techniques, earned him recognition among the farming circles of early 20th century Greater Poland.\n\nRodryg Dunin was born in Marszewo, Kreis Pleschen, Province of Posen, to Stanisław Tadeusz Dunin (a participant in the 19th century January Uprising), and Maria-Antonina Baranowska (daughter of the Poznań playwright Agnieszka Baranowska). He was a student at Maria Magdalena Gymnasium (high school) in Poznań, where he participated actively in a secret Polish educational-social youth movement, and later studied at academies in Tetschen (Děčín), Bohemia, and Leipzig, Saxony.\n\nHe married Lucia (Łucja) Taczanowska (1862-1917), the widow of Stanisław Nieżychowski (1851-1897), and became the stepfather of her six children. Among his own children by the marriage was Stanisław Antoni Piotr Dunin, an army officer who received the Virtuti Militari award.\n\nRodryg Dunin's estate was in Granówko, Kreis Kosten. Formerly the seat of the Nieżychowski family, it came into the hands of the Dunins following the 1898 marriage. The mansion was built by Nepomucen Nieżychowski, who owned the estate at the time. In 1923, he passed Granówek to his oldest stepson, Józef Nieżychowski, and bought the Ruchocice manor near Grodzisk Wielkopolski from Tiedemann, an HKT member. Dunin would later use Ruchocice to provide an orphanage aiming to protect Polish children from Germanization.\n\nDunin played an important role in Greater Poland agricultural-industrial organizations, including serving as a councillor of the Poznańskie Ziemstwo Kredytowe and holding seats on the boards of numerous institutions. His capacity to both introduce new techniques and to balance with tradition earned him a reputation among Polish farmers for modernity and innovation. He founded an alcohol factory, local train, and in 1912 installed the first rain-based irrigation system in the Poznań area. He mentored young farmers and was invited to lecture in contemporary centers of farmer education, both in Poznań and Warsaw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53465896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53465896", "title": "Ruth S. Morgenthau", "text": "Ruth S. Morgenthau\n\nRuth Schachter Morgenthau (January 26, 1931 – November 4, 2006), was a professor of international politics at Brandeis University and an advisor to President Jimmy Carter on rural development in poor countries.\n\nShe was born in Vienna. Her parents, Osias and Mizia Kramer Schachter, owned a textile importing company until they fled from the Nazis in 1940. She graduated from Barnard College in 1952, then attended the Institut d'Études Politiques in Paris as a Fulbright scholar. In 1958, she received a doctorate in politics from Oxford.\n\nIn 1964, she wrote \"Political Parties in French-Speaking West Africa\" (winner of the 1965 Herskovitz Prize).\n\nShe was a member of the United States Mission to the United Nations, and in 1988 ran unsuccessfully as a Democratic candidate for Congress in Rhode Island. She was an advocate of <nowiki>\"</nowiki>bottom-up<nowiki>\"</nowiki> aid to farmers and villagers in the third world.\n\nShe was married to Henry Morgenthau in 1962. They had two sons: Henry (Ben) Morgenthau (born 1964) and cinematographer Kramer Morgenthau (born 1966); and a daughter, Sarah Elinor Morgenthau Wessel (born 1963).\n\nShe died on November 4, 2006, aged 75, in Boston, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "39382726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39382726", "title": "South Park (Downtown Los Angeles)", "text": "South Park (Downtown Los Angeles)\n\nSouth Park is a commercial district in southwestern Downtown Los Angeles, California. It is the location of the Los Angeles Convention Center, the Staples Center, the \"L.A. Live\" entertainment complex and the Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising.\n\n\"The District includes all property within a boundary that begins on the north at 9th Street and the 110 Freeway and runs east to Flower Street then south to Olympic Boulevard, east on Olympic Boulevard to mid-block across Hill Street then south to 11th Street then east to mid-block across Broadway forming the northern boundary. From there the eastern boundary runs south across 12th Street, past Pico Boulevard, past 14th Street, past 15th Street, across Venice Boulevard to the centerline of 17th Street. From there the southern boundary runs west along 17th Street/Santa Monica (10) Freeway across Broadway, past Hill Street, past Olive Street, past Grand Avenue, past Hope Street, past Flower Street, across Figueroa Street to behind the Convention Center along Convention Center Drive. From there the western boundary runs north along L.A. Live Way (Cherry Street) across Pico Boulevard, past 12th Street, past Chick Hearn Court (11th Street) across Olympic Boulevard to 9th Street and the Harbor (110) Freeway.\" Bordering the district are Pico-Union on the west, West Adams on the southwest, South Los Angeles district on the southeast, the Warehouse District on the southeast, and the Financial District on the northeast. Major thoroughfares include Venice, Pico and Olympic Boulevards, Grand Avenue, and Figueroa Street. The Blue Line light rail line and Expo Line light rail line stop in the district at the Pico/Chick Hearn station.\n\nAt the beginning of 21st century the area began to rapidly transform with infill development. Luxury apartments and condominiums with ground floor retail began construction in the 2000s. The district's proximity to the University of Southern California, as well as the Blue Line light rail line, have made it an attractive area for young professionals. As with many neighborhood transformations, this change in demographics has a few concerned about displacement and gentrification issues.\n"}
{"id": "23408844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23408844", "title": "St. Louis Cardinals", "text": "St. Louis Cardinals\n\nThe St. Louis Cardinals are an American professional baseball team based in St. Louis, Missouri. The Cardinals compete in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a member club of the National League (NL) Central division. Busch Stadium has been their home ballpark since 2006. One of the most successful franchises in baseball history, the Cardinals have won 11 World Series championships, the second-most in Major League Baseball (behind the New York Yankees) and the most in the National League. Their 19 National League pennants rank third in NL history. In addition, St. Louis has won 13 division titles in the East and Central divisions.\n\nWhile still in the old American Association (AA), named then as the St. Louis Browns, the team won four AA league championships, qualifying them to play in the professional baseball championship tournament (a forerunner of the modern World Series, established 1903) of that era. They tied in 1885 and won outright in 1886 and lost in 1888 for the early trophy Hall Cup versus the New York Giants. The others both times against the Chicago Cubs (originally the Chicago White Stockings then), in the first meetings of the Cardinals–Cubs rivalry between nearby cities of St. Louis and Chicago that continues to this day.\n\nWith origins as one of the early professional baseball clubs in St. Louis and the nation, entrepreneur Chris von der Ahe purchased a barnstorming club in 1881, then known as the Brown Stockings, and established them as charter members of the old American Association (AA) base ball league which played 1882 to 1891, the following season. Upon the discontinuation of the AA, St. Louis joined the continuing National League of Professional Base Ball Clubs, later known simply as the National League, (organized in 1876), in 1892; at that time, they were called the Browns (not to be confused with a later team also known as the St. Louis Browns in the American League, 1902-1953) and also as the Perfectos before they were officially renamed eight years later as the Cardinals in 1900. The name refers to the bird called \"Cardinal\", which is the team's mascot, rather than to the senior Catholic Church officials so named.\n\nCardinals achievements that have impacted MLB and sports events in general include manager/owner Branch Rickey's pioneering of the farm system, Rogers Hornsby's two batting Triple Crowns, Dizzy Dean's 30-win season in 1934, Stan Musial's 17 MLB and 29 NL records, Bob Gibson's 1.12 earned run average (ERA) in 1968, Whitey Herzog's Whiteyball, Mark McGwire breaking the single-season home run record in 1998, and the 2011 championship team's unprecedented comebacks. The Cardinals have won 105 or more games in four different seasons and won 100 or more a total of nine times. Cardinals players have won 20 league MVPs, four batting Triple Crowns, and three Cy Young Awards. Baseball Hall of Fame inductees include Lou Brock, Dizzy Dean, Bob Gibson, Whitey Herzog, Rogers Hornsby, Joe Medwick, Stan Musial, Branch Rickey, Red Schoendienst, Ozzie Smith, and Bruce Sutter.\n\nIn 2018, \"Forbes\" valued the Cardinals at $1.9 billion, making them the 7th-most valuable franchise in MLB; their revenue the previous year was $319 million, and their operating income was $40.0 million. Since their purchase in 1995, owner William DeWitt, Jr.'s investment group has seen enormous growth from the $147 million purchase price. John Mozeliak is the President of Baseball Operations, Mike Girsch is the general manager and Mike Shildt is the manager. The Cardinals are renowned for their strong fan support: despite being in one of the sport's mid-level markets, they routinely see attendances among the league's highest, and are consistently among the Top 3 in MLB in local television ratings.\n\nProfessional baseball began in St. Louis with the inception of the Brown Stockings in the National Association (NA) in 1875. The NA folded following that season, and the next season, St. Louis joined the National League as a charter member, finishing in third place at 45-19. George Bradley hurled the first no-hitter in Major League history. The NL expelled St. Louis from the league after 1877 due to a game-fixing scandal and the team went bankrupt. Without a league, they continued play as a semi-professional barnstorming team through 1881.\n\nThe magnitudes of the reorganizations following the 1877 and 1881 seasons are such that the 1875–1877 and 1878–1881 Brown Stockings teams are not generally considered to share continuity as a franchise with the current St. Louis Cardinals.\n\nFor the 1882 season, Chris von der Ahe purchased the team, reorganized it, and made it a founding member of the American Association (AA), a league to rival the NL. 1882 is generally considered to be the first year existence of the St. Louis Cardinals.\n\nThe next season, St. Louis shortened their name to the Browns. Soon thereafter they became the dominant team in the AA, as manager Charlie Comiskey guided St. Louis to four pennants in a row from 1885 to 1888. Pitcher and outfielder Bob Caruthers led the league in ERA (2.07) and wins (40) in 1885 and finished in the top six in both in each of the following two seasons. He also led the AA in OBP (.448) and OPS (.974) in 1886 and finished fourth in batting average in 1886 (.334) and fifth in 1887 (.357). Outfielder Tip O'Neill won the first batting triple crown in franchise history in 1887 and the only one in AA history. By winning the pennant, the Browns played the NL pennant winner in a predecessor of the World Series. The Browns twice met the Chicago White Stockings – the \"Chicago Cubs\" prototype – tying one in a heated dispute and winning the other, thus spurring the vigorous St. Louis-Chicago rivalry that ensues to this day. During the franchise's ten seasons in the AA, they compiled an all-time league-high of 780 wins and .639 winning percentage. They lost just 432 contests while tying 21 others.\nThe AA went bankrupt after the 1891 season and the Browns transferred to the National League. This time, the club entered an era of stark futility. Between 1892 and 1919, St. Louis managed just five winning seasons, finished in last or next-to-last place sixteen times, and ended four seasons with 100 losses or more. The nadir was the 1897 season: a 29–102 record for a franchise-worst .221 winning percentage. St. Louis' 84-67 finish as the Perfectos would be the team's best finish between the AA era and Sam Breadon's purchase of the team. As the \"Perfectos\", the team wore their jersey with a cardinal red trim and sock striping. Later that season, \"St. Louis Republic\" sportswriter Willie McHale included an account in a column of a female fan he heard remarking about the uniforms, \"What a lovely shade of cardinal.\" Fans liked the moniker \"Cardinals\" and, the next year, popularity for the nickname induced an official change to Cardinals.\n\nIn 1902, an American League team moved from Milwaukee into St. Louis, renamed themselves the St. Louis Browns and built a new park on the site of the Cardinals' old stadium, striking a rivalry that lasted five decades. Breadon bought a minority interest in the Cardinals in 1917 and in 1919 Browns manager Branch Rickey joined the Cardinals. The Cardinals' first 28 seasons in the NL were a complete reversal of their stay in the AA – with a .406 winning percentage, they compiled 1,632 wins, 2,425 losses and 74 ties.\n\nSt. Louis baseball commenced a renaissance: since 1926 the Cardinals have won eleven World Series and nineteen NL pennants. Breadon spurred this revival when bought out the majority stake in 1920 and appointed Rickey as business manager, who expanded scouting, player development, and pioneered the minor league farm system, filling the role of today's general manager. With Rogers Hornsby at second base, he claimed Triple Crowns in 1922 and 1925, and the Cardinals won the 1926 World Series, their first. St. Louis then won the league in 1928, 1930, and 1931 and the 1931 World Series.\nThe Gashouse Gang edition claimed the 1934 World Series and the Cardinals amassed new thresholds of popularity far outside St. Louis via radio, which led to the coining of the term \"Cardinal Nation\". Dizzy Dean led the Gang, winning the 1934 MVP, and leading the NL multiple times in wins, strikeouts, innings, complete games and shutouts. Johnny Mize and Joe Medwick emerged as two power threats, with Medwick claiming the last Triple Crown for a Cardinal in 1937.\n\nIn the 1940s, a golden era emerged as Rickey's farm system became laden with such talent as Marty Marion, Enos Slaughter, Mort Cooper, Walker Cooper, Stan Musial, Max Lanier, Whitey Kurowski, Red Schoendienst and Johnny Beazley. It was one of the most successful decades in franchise history with 960 wins 580 losses for a winning percentage higher than any other Major League team at .623. With Billy Southworth managing, they won the World Series in 1942 and 1944 (in the only all-St. Louis series against the Browns), and won 105 or more games each in 1942, 1943, and 1944. Southworth's managerial winning percentage (.642) is St. Louis' highest since the franchise joined the National League. Musial was considered the most consistent hitter of his era and most accomplished in team history, winning three MVPs and seven batting titles. St. Louis then won the 1946 World Series on Slaughter's Mad Dash in Game 7. Breadon was forced to sell the team in 1947 but won six World Series and nine NL pennants as Cardinals owner. They remained competitive, finishing .500 or better in thirteen of the next seventeen seasons, but fell short of winning the league or World Series until 1964.\n\nIn 1953 the Anheuser-Busch brewery bought the Cardinals and August \"Gussie\" Busch became team president, spurring the Browns' departure in 1953 to Baltimore to become the Orioles, and making the Cardinals the only major league club in town. More success followed in the 1960s, starting with what is considered one of the most lopsided trades in Major League history, as St. Louis received outfielder Lou Brock from the Cubs for pitcher Ernie Broglio. MVP third baseman Ken Boyer and pitcher Bob Gibson led the club to a World Series win the same year and Curt Flood, Bill White, Curt Simmons, and Steve Carlton also made key contributions in this decade. In 1967, new arrival Orlando Cepeda won the MVP, helping to propel St. Louis to the World Series. The Cardinals won the league the following year behind their Major League-leading 2.49 staff ERA in what was an all-round record-breaking season of pitching dominance. Posting a modern-day record low ERA of 1.12 and striking out a one-game World Series-record of 17, Gibson won both the MVP and Cy Young awards that year. However, the Cardinals failed to repeat as World Series champions, blowing a 3-1 lead to the underdog Detroit Tigers.\n\nIn the 1970s, catcher/third baseman Joe Torre and first baseman Keith Hernández each won MVPs, but the team's best finishes were second place and 90 wins. The team found their way back to the World Series the next decade, starting with manager Whitey Herzog and his Whiteyball style of play and another trade that altered course of the franchise: in 1982, shortstop Garry Templeton was shipped to the Padres for fellow shortstop Ozzie Smith. Widely regarded as one of the best defensive players in history, Smith ranks first all-time among shortstops in Gold Glove Awards (13), All-Star games (15), assists (8,375), and double plays (1,590). St. Louis won the 1982 World Series from the Milwaukee Brewers that fall. The Cardinals again won the league in 1985 and 1987. In the 1985 Series, they faced-off with cross-state rivals Kansas City Royals for the first time in a non-exhibition game, but they lost the series.\n\nAfter Gussie Busch died in 1989, the brewery took control and hired Joe Torre to manage late in 1990, then sold the team to an investment group led by William DeWitt, Jr. in 1996. Tony La Russa replaced Torre in the spring of 1996. In 1998, Mark McGwire competed with the Cubs' Sammy Sosa for a barrage of home runs in their pursuit of the single-season home run record. From 2000 to 2013, the Cardinals reestablished their way to the top with ten playoff appearances, four NL pennants, two World Series titles and 1,274 regular season wins against 993 losses for a .560 winning percentage, leading the National League and second in MLB only to the New York Yankees. With the addition of Jim Edmonds, Albert Pujols, and Scott Rolen, the Cardinals featured three prominent sluggers and defenders nicknamed \"MV3;\" Pujols won three MVPs and hit .328 with 445 home runs in his Cardinals career. In 2004, playoff stalwart Chris Carpenter's 3.09 ERA and 15 wins helped power the team to a major-league best 105 wins and take the NL pennant. In 2006, beset with injuries and inconsistency, they won the World Series, beating Detroit in five games to set an all-time record-low of 83 wins for a World Series winner.\n\nIn 2009, the Cardinals reached 10,000 wins, dating to when they first played in the American Association (AA). St. Louis returned to the playoffs in 2011, first surmounting the largest games-won deficit after 130 games (at 10.5) to upstage the Atlanta Braves on the final day for the wild card playoff berth. In Game 3 of the World Series, Pujols became just the third player to hit three home runs in a World Series game. In Game 6, third baseman David Freese and outfielder Lance Berkman each tied the score on the Cardinals' final strike – the first such occurrence in any game in MLB history – and St. Louis defeated the Texas Rangers later that game with a walk-off home run from Freese. After winning that Series, La Russa retired and became the only manager to do so after winning a title. He also finished with the most wins for managers in franchise history with 1,408.\n\nLa Russa's successor, Mike Matheny, helped extend St. Louis' playoff run as he became the first manager in the division play era to guide the Cardinals to the NLCS and playoffs in his first two seasons. In 2014, the Cardinals extended their NLCS streak to 4, with their 3-1 series victory over the Dodgers, in the NLDS. Ten days after being eliminated from the postseason by the San Francisco Giants, rookie outfielder Oscar Taveras was killed in a car accident while traveling to his hometown Puerto Plata in the Dominican Republic. On November 17, they acquired Atlanta Braves right-fielder Jason Heyward (who had just come off a Gold Glove-winning season) to replace Taveras. On June 16, 2015, the FBI and the Justice Department started an investigation on the Cardinals for possibly hacking the Houston Astros. The hacking incident was perpetrated by Scouting Director Chris Correa. For the first time since the 2007–2008 seasons, the Cardinals missed the playoffs in consecutive years, 2016–2017.\n\nOn July 14th, 2018 following an 8-2 loss to the Cincinnati Reds, the St. Louis Cardinals announced they had dismissed manager Mike Matheny after 6 and a half seasons as team skipper. They named Mike Shildt interim manager and eventually manager.\n\nOn November 19, 2018, the team announced the \"Victory Blue\" uniforms worn by the Cardinals during the late 1970s and 1980s would be returning for the 2019 season. The uniforms, integrating the powder blue color with the team's current \"Saturday alternate\" jersey design, will be worn thirteen times on the road during the 2019 season.\n\nThe Cardinals play their home games at Busch Stadium (also referred to as \"New Busch Stadium\" or \"Busch III\") in downtown St. Louis, straddling 7th and Clark near the intersection of Interstates 64 and 70. The stadium opened for the 2006 season at a cost of $411 million and holds a normal capacity of 46,861. The Cardinals finished their inaugural season in the new Busch Stadium by winning the 2006 World Series, the first team since the 1923 New York Yankees to do so. This open-air stadium emulates the HOK Sport (now Populous)-designed \"retro-style\" baseball-only parks built since the 1990s. The open panoramic perspective over the outfield wall offers a remarkable view of St. Louis' downtown skyline featuring the distinctive Gateway Arch. A replica of Eads Bridge spans the entrance to the park on the third base side, while the statue of Stan Musial arises in front of that entrance. Other statues at the corner of 8th and Clark include Hall of Famers Rogers Hornsby, Ozzie Smith, George Sisler, Cool Papa Bell, Bob Gibson, Jack Buck and others.\n\nDue to increased demand, Game 7 of the 2011 World Series accommodated a baseball record of 47,399 by increasing the number of standing room only tickets. The attendance record for any sporting event is 48,263, in a 2013 Association Football (soccer) friendly match between Chelsea F.C. and Manchester City F.C., made possible by on field seating. The largest attendance (53,000) of any event at Busch belongs to U2 during a concert from their 360° Tour in 2011.\n\nBallpark Village, a mixed-use development located across Clark Street from Busch Stadium, is targeted to enhance the ballpark goers' experience. Phase 1 of the development, completed for the start of the 2014 season, includes entertainment venues, restaurants, and retail. Anchored by Cardinals Nation (which includes the Cardinals Hall of Fame, a two-story Cardinals-themed restaurant and rooftop seating for 300+ fans with views of the field across the street), a 20,000 sq ft Budweiser Brew House, FOX Sports Midwest Live! and PBR, the $100 million phase 1 development of Ballpark Village is intended to be a gathering space throughout the year, not just during the baseball season.\n\nBusch Stadium is the Cardinals' fourth home ballpark and the third to bear that name. The Cardinals' original home ballpark was Sportsman's Park from 1882 to 1892 when they played in the American Association and were known as the Browns. In 1893, the Browns moved to a new ballpark five blocks northwest of Sportsman's Park which would serve as their home from 1893 to 1920. The new park was originally called New Sportsman's Park but became more commonly referred to as Robison Field. Midway through the 1920 season the Cardinals abandoned Robison Field and returned to the original Sportsman's Park and became tenants of their American League rivals, the St. Louis Browns. In 1953, the Anheuser-Busch Brewery purchased the Cardinals and the new owner subsequently also purchased Sportsman's Park from the Browns and renamed it Busch Stadium, later becoming Busch I. The Browns then left St. Louis for Baltimore after the season. The Cardinals built Busch Memorial Stadium, or Busch II, in downtown St. Louis, opened it during the 1966 season and played there until 2005. It was built as the multi-purpose stadium home of both the baseball Cardinals and the NFL football Cardinals, who are now the Arizona Cardinals. The current Busch Stadium was constructed adjacent to, and partly atop, the site of Busch Memorial Stadium.\n\nThe Cardinals home field in spring training is Roger Dean Stadium in Jupiter, Florida. They share the complex, which opened in 1998, with the Miami Marlins. Before moving to Jupiter, the Cardinals hosted spring training at Al Lang Field in St. Petersburg, Florida from 1937 to 1997.\n\nThe Cardinals have exceeded the attendance total of 3 million every season since 2004.\nThe Cardinals have had few logos throughout their history, although those logos have evolved over time. The first logo associated with the Cardinals was an interlocking \"SL\" that appeared on the team's caps and or sleeves as early as 1900. Those early uniforms usually featured the name \"St. Louis\" on white home and gray road uniforms which both had cardinal red accents. In 1920, the \"SL\" largely disappeared from the team's uniforms, and for the next 20 years the team wore caps that were white with red striping and a red bill.\nIn 1922, the Cardinals wore uniforms for the first time that featured the two familiar cardinal birds perched on a baseball bat over the name \"Cardinals\" with the letter \"C\" of the word hooked over the bat. The concept of the birds originated after general manager Branch Rickey noticed a colorful cardboard arrangement featuring cardinal birds on a table in a Presbyterian church in Ferguson, Missouri, at which he was speaking. The arrangement's production was by a woman named Allie May Schmidt. Schmidt's father, a graphic designer, helped Ricky make the logo a familiar staple on Cardinals uniforms. Colloquially referred to as the \"birds on the bat\", it initially appeared with the birds perched on a black bat and \"Cardinals\" in printed letters. An alternate version of this logo with \"St. Louis\" replacing \"Cardinals\" appeared in 1930 and was the primary logo in 1931 and 1932 before \"Cardinals\" returned. In 1940, the now-familiar \" logo was introduced on the team's caps. The interlocking \" has undergone several slight modifications over the years but has appeared on the team's caps every year since. The first appearance of the \"STL\" in 1940 coincided with the introduction of navy blue as a uniform color. From 1940 until 1955, the team wore navy blue caps with red bills and a red interlocking \"\" while the jerseys featured both cardinal red and navy blue accents. In 1951, the \"birds on the bat\" logo was changed to feature a yellow baseball bat.\nIn 1956, the Cardinals changed their caps to solid blue with a red \"\", removing the red bill. Also, for that season only, the Cardinals wore a script \"Cardinals\" wordmark on their uniforms excluding the \"birds on the bat.\" An updated version of the \"birds on the bat\" logo returned in 1957 with the word \"Cardinals\" written in cursive beneath the bat. In 1962, the Cardinals became the first National League team to display players' names on the back of their jerseys. In 1964, while retaining their blue caps for road games, the Cardinals changed their home caps to all red with a white interlocking \". The next year, the red caps were the only cap worn by the team full-time. In 1967, the birds on the bat emblem on the jersey was again tweaked, making the birds more realistic and changing the position of their tails relative to the bat and this version remained on all Cardinals game jerseys through 1997.\n\nIn 1971, following the trend in baseball at the time, the Cardinals replaced the traditional flannel front-button shirts and pants with belts with new pullover knit jerseys and beltless elastic waist pants. In 1973, the crew-neck collar became a V-neck. Another trend in baseball led the Cardinals to change their road uniforms from gray to light blue from 1976 to 1984. In 1992, the Cardinals returned to wearing traditional button-down shirts and pants with belts. That same year, they also brought back the all-navy cap with a red \" on the road (which were last worn in 1964) only while wearing the same red and white cap for home games only. \nIn 1998, the \"birds on the bat\" was updated for the first time in 30 years with more detailed birds and bolder letters. That year, St. Louis introduced a cap featuring a single cardinal bird perched on a bat worn only on Sunday home games. The new birds on the bat design was modified again the next year, with yellow beaks and white eyes replacing the red beaks and yellow eyes of the 1998 version. Uniform numbers also returned to the front of the jerseys in 1999 after a two-year absence.\n\nOn November 16, 2012, the Cardinals unveiled a new alternate uniform to be worn at home games on Saturdays beginning with the 2013 season. The modified jersey, cream-colored with red trim on the sleeves and down the front, was the first since 1932 in which \"St. Louis\" will be used instead of \"Cardinals\" and retained the \"birds on the bat.\" 2013 also saw the team adopt their red caps as their main uniform for both home and away games; the navy cap was retained as an alternate, used mainly against other red-capped teams. Over the years, the Cardinals have released various marketing logos depicting anthropomorphized cardinals in a pitching stance, swinging a baseball bat, or wearing a baseball cap that never became part of the game uniform.\n\nStarting with the 2019 season, the Cardinals will wear updated powder blue alternate uniforms during Saturday road games. Like the Saturday home cream alternates, it features red piping and \"St. Louis\" below the \"birds on the bat\" logo.\n\nThe team mascot is an anthropomorphic cardinal wearing the team's uniform named Fredbird. He is assisted by Team Fredbird, a group of eleven women who entertain fans from the field and on top of the dugouts.\n\nWhile unofficial, the Rally Squirrel became an unexpected phenomenon during the 2011 postseason. Making its \"debut\" in Game 3 of the NLDS on Oct 4, a squirrel ran across home plate in the middle of a pitch from Roy Oswalt of the Phillies to the Cardinals' Skip Schumaker. The Cardinals would win Game 4 and subsequently Game 5 (Oct. 7) in Philadelphia to advance to the NLCS, symbolizing the squirrel's \"role\" in the victory. The squirrel was popularized as \"Buschie the Rally Squirrel\" As a tribute to the popularity of the squirrel, a small depiction of the Rally Squirrel is also included on the official World Series rings the team received. It shows up under the \"STL\" logo on the side of the ring.\n\nFredbird sparked controversy in May 2015, when he was asked by a fan for a photograph and handed him a sign that said \"Police Lives Matter\". The team later claimed that Fredbird should not be involved in any political activity or social commentary.\n\nThe Cardinals–Cubs rivalry refers to games between the Cardinals and the Chicago Cubs. The rivalry is also known as the Downstate Illinois rivalry or the I-55 Series (in earlier years as the Route 66 Series) as both cities are located along Interstate 55 (which itself succeeded the famous U.S. Route 66). The Cubs lead the series 1,134–1,103 through June 22, 2016, while the Cardinals lead in National League pennants with 19 against the Cubs' 17. The Cubs have won 11 of those pennants in Major League Baseball's Modern Era (1901–present), while all 19 of the Cardinals' pennants have been won since 1926. The Cardinals also have an edge when it comes to World Series successes, having won 11 championships to the Cubs' 3. Games featuring the Cardinals and Cubs see numerous visiting fans in either Busch Stadium in St. Louis or Wrigley Field in Chicago. When the National League split into two and then three divisions, the Cardinals and Cubs remained together. This has added excitement to several pennant races over the years. The Cardinals and Cubs have played each other once in the postseason, when the Cubs beat the Cardinals 3 games to 1 in the 2015 National League Division Series.\n\nAn investment group led by William DeWitt, Jr. owns the St. Louis Cardinals, having bought the team from Anheuser-Busch (AB) in 1996. As with other periods of the Cardinals' transaction history, doubt loomed as to whether the purchaser would keep the team in St. Louis, due to the city's status as a \"small market\", which appears to handicap a club's competitiveness. Such was the case when Sam Breadon put the Cardinals up for sale in 1947: then-NL President Ford Frick proposed moving the Cardinals to Chicago. When AB placed the Cardinals for sale in 1995, they publicly expressed intention to find a buyer who would keep the club in St. Louis. In March 1996, AB sold the team for $147 million to a partnership headed by Southwest Bank's Drew Baur, Hanser and DeWitt, Jr. Civic Center Redevelopment, a subsidiary of AB, held the parking garages and adjacent property and also transferred them to the Baur ownership group. Baur's group then sold the garages to another investment group, lowering the net franchise purchase price to about $100 million, about $10 million less than \"Financial World's\" value of the team at the time $110 million.\n\nCurrent Cincinnati Reds owners Bob Castellini and brothers Thomas Williams and W. Joseph Williams Jr. each once owned a stake in the Cardinals dating back to the Baur-DeWitt group's purchase of the team. To allow their purchase of the Reds in 2005, the rest of the group bought out Castellini's and the Williams brothers' shares, totaling an estimated thirteen percent. At that time, the \"Forbes\" valued the Cardinals at about $370 million. However, after reabsorbing that stake into the remainder of the group, they decided to make it available to new investors in 2010. Amid later allegations that the Cardinals owed the city profit shares, DeWitt revealed that their profitability had not reached the threshold to trigger that obligation.\n\nAs of 2018, \"Forbes\" valued the Cardinals seventh among 30 MLB franchises. Their estimated value of $1.90 billion was an increase of $100 million from the season before, when they ranked seventh. St. Louis' revenue in 2018 was $319 million, up $9 million. Their Operating income was $40.0 million. The Cardinals' deal with Fox Sports Midwest, signed in 2015, begins in 2018, and is worth $1 billion through 2032. In 2014, \"Forbes\" valued the Cardinals at $820 million and opined previously that they play \"in the best single-team baseball market in the country and are among the league's leaders in television ratings and attendance every season.\" Concurrent with the growth of Major League Baseball, the Cardinals value has increased significantly since the Baur-DeWitt purchase. In 2000, the franchise was valued at $219 million, a growth rate of 374% through 2014. The franchise's value grew 12.7% from 2013 to 2014.\nThe \"Forbes\" methodology of team values are enterprise values (equity plus net debt) that include the economics of the ballpark but exclude the value of real estate itself. Forbes does not include the value of team-owned regional sports networks. The league's ownership in Major League Baseball Advanced Media (100%) and the MLB Network (67%) and league's investment portfolio are included in our values. In total, these three assets constitute about $425 million in value for each team. Revenue and operating income (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) measure cash in versus cash out (not accrual accounting) for the 2017 season. Their figures include the post-season and are net of revenue sharing and stadium debt payments. Revenues include the pro-rated upfront bonuses networks pay teams as well as proceeds from non-MLB events at the ballpark. The non-recurring $18 million each team received in 2017 from the sale of a stake in BamTech to Walt Disney was excluded, as were profits or losses from team-owned RSNs.\n\nAll valuations per \"Forbes.\"\n  (2018: market $715 mil., stadium $447 mil., sport $493 mil., brand management $245 mil.) \n\n\nBesides Ballpark Village, which has now finished its first phase, opening on March 27, and considered a smashing success with the first phase of the project totaling . The Cardinals own three of their Minor League Baseball affililiates:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nField managers with one or more years managing, and the current manager are included here. \n\n\n\nIn 2014, the Cardinals announced the reopening of the franchise Hall of Fame after a 6-year hiatus. A formal selection process recognizes former players as Cardinals Hall of Famers each year. To be eligible for election, a player must have been a member of the Cardinals for at least three seasons. The team initially released the names of 22 former players and personnel included in the inaugural class of 2014. There are now 40 members of the Cardinals Hall of Fame.\n\nThe Cardinals have retired 12 total jersey numbers––second in MLB only to the New York Yankees' 21––in honoring 14 total former players and club personnel on the left field wall at Busch Stadium. A 15th, Jackie Robinson, is honored by all MLB teams. During the time Rogers Hornsby had played, the Cardinals did not have any numbers on their uniforms. This practice had begun with the Cleveland Indians in 1920. Thus, Hornsby had no number to retire.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n\nCapable of reaching 21 million listeners in nine states including Missouri, Illinois, Arkansas, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and Tennessee, the Cardinals radio network is the second-largest in MLB with 117 affiliate stations. In St. Louis, CBS-owned KMOX (1120 AM) airs Cardinals games over radio and feeds the rest of the Cardinals network. Mike Shannon and John Rooney alternate as play-by-play announcers, with Chris Hrabe serving as pre-game and post-game host. KMOX's 50,000-watt clear-channel signal covers much of the continental United States at night. At one time, owing to the Cardinals' status as a \"regional\" franchise, the Cardinals radio network reached almost half of the country.\n\nThe 2011 season marked the Cardinals' return to KMOX following five seasons on KTRS (550 AM), a station which is 50 percent owned by the Cardinals. With a partnership spanning seven decades, and continuously since 1954, its conclusion was realized after the 2005 season when CBS Radio and the Cardinals failed to reach terms on a new rights agreement. However, frustrated by the underpowered coverage of 5,000-watt KTRS, the Cardinals reached a new deal with KMOX in 2011.\n\nMike Shannon announced 30 fewer games in 2013, compared to the 15 he took off in 2012, and in previous seasons. Most of the games will be road games and three-city trips. He has been announcing Cardinals' games starting in 1972, making 2013 his 41st year announcing. He turns 74 in July. He has announced Cardinals' games for more years than anyone except Jack Buck (1954–58, 1961–2001) who announced for 46 years.\n\nSince 2000, Cardinals telecasts have generated the top three in ratings in MLB every season. Fox Sports Midwest airs all games in high-definition and is the team's exclusive television broadcaster, with the exception of selected Saturday afternoon games on Fox (via its St. Louis affiliate, KTVI) or \"Sunday Night Baseball\" on ESPN. Fox Sports Indiana, Fox Sports South, Fox Sports Tennessee, Fox Sports Oklahoma, Fox Sports Southwest, and SportSouth air Cardinals games for fans living within the Cardinals broadcast territory who do not receive the Fox Sports Midwest channel. During the 2016 season, the Cardinals averaged a 8.54 rating and 104,000 viewers on primetime TV broadcasts in St Louis.\n\nThe television commentators lineup includes Dan McLaughlin, Rick Horton, and Al Hrabosky. Jimmy \"The Cat\" Hayes serves as dugout reporter during the game as well as on \"Cardinals Live\", a pre- and post-game show. \"Cardinals Live\" is hosted in-studio by Pat Parris along with game analysts and former Cardinals players Jim Edmonds, Gary Bennett and Chris Duncan.\n\n\"Cardinals Kids\", a program aimed at the team's younger fans, airs weekly in-season on Fox Sports Midwest. It's hosted by former Cardinals pitcher Andy Benes, team mascot Fredbird, and Busch Stadium Public Address announcer John \"The U-Man\" Ulett. The 30-minute show began airing in 2003 and presents team news, player profiles, and Cardinals team history in a kid-friendly manner along with games and trivia.\n\nA weekly magazine program, \"This Week in Cardinal Nation\", airs on St. Louis' NBC affiliate KSDK. Cardinals games had been seen on KSDK (and its predecessor, KSD-TV) from 1947 through 1958, 1963 through 1987, and 2007 until 2010. KPLR-TV was the Cardinals' other over-the-air broadcaster, carrying games from 1959 through 1962 and from 1988 until 2006.\n\nFormer Cardinals broadcasters include Jack Buck, Harry Caray, Dizzy Dean, Joe Garagiola, Sr., and Jay Randolph. Joe Buck, the son of Jack Buck, was an official member of the Cardinals' broadcast team from 1991 until 2007. The younger Buck is currently the lead play-by-play caller for Fox Sports' national Major League Baseball and National Football League broadcasts.\n\nOpening Day payrolls for 25-man roster (since 2000): \n\n"}
{"id": "1816139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816139", "title": "Target costing", "text": "Target costing\n\nTarget costing is an approach to determine a product’s life-cycle cost which should be sufficient to develop specified functionality and quality, while ensuring its desired profit. It involves setting a target cost by subtracting a desired profit margin from a competitive market price. A target cost is the maximum amount of cost that can be incurred on a product, however, the firm can still earn the required profit margin from that product at a particular selling price. Target costing decomposes the target cost from product level to component level. Through this decomposition, target costing spreads the competitive pressure faced by the company to product’s designers and suppliers. Target costing consists of cost planning in the design phase of production as well as cost control throughout the resulting product life cycle. The cardinal rule of target costing is to never exceed the target cost. However, the focus of target costing is not to minimize costs, but to achieve a desired level of cost reduction determined by the target costing process.\n\nTarget costing is defined as \"a disciplined process for determining and achieving a full-stream cost at which a proposed product with specified functionality, performance, and quality must be produced in order to generate the desired profitability at the product’s anticipated selling price over a specified period of time in the future.\" This definition encompasses the principal concepts: products should be based on an accurate assessment of the wants and needs of customers in different market segments, and cost targets should be what result after a sustainable profit margin is subtracted from what customers are willing to pay at the time of product introduction and afterwards.\n\nThe fundamental objective of target costing is to manage the business to be profitable in a highly competitive marketplace. In effect, target costing is a proactive cost planning, cost management, and cost reduction practice whereby costs are planned and managed out of a product and business early in the design and development cycle, rather than during the later stages of product development and production.\n\nTarget costing was developed independently in both USA and Japan in different time periods. Target costing was adopted earlier by American companies to reduce cost and improve productivity, such as Ford Motor from 1900s, American Motors from 1950s-1960s. Although the ideas of target costing were also applied by a number of other American companies including Boeing, Caterpillar, Northern Telecom, few of them apply target costing as comprehensively and intensively as top Japanese companies such as Nissan, Toyota, Nippondenso. Target costing emerged from Japan from 1960s to early 1970s with the particular effort of Japanese automobile industry, including Toyota and Nissan. It did not receive global attention until late 1980s to 1990s when some authors such as Monden (1992), Sakurai (1989), Tanaka (1993), and Cooper (1992) described the way that Japanese companies applied target costing to thrive in their business (IMA 1994). With superior implementation systems, Japanese manufacturers are more successful than the American companies in developing target costing. Traditional cost-plus pricing strategy has been impeding the productivity and profitability for a long time. As a new strategy, target costing is replacing traditional cost-plus pricing strategy by maximizing customer satisfaction by accepted level of quality and functionality while minimizing costs.\n\nThe process of target costing can be divided into three sections: the first section involves in market-driven target costing, which focuses on studying market conditions to identify a product’s allowable cost in order to meet the company’s long-term profit at expected selling price; the second section involves performing cost reduction strategies with the product designer’s effort and creativity to identify the product-level target cost; the third section is component-level target cost which decomposes the production cost to functional and component levels to transmit cost responsibility to suppliers.\nMarket driven target costing is the first section in the target costing process which focuses on studying market conditions and determining the company’s profit margin in order to identify the allowable cost of a product. Market driven costing can go through 5 steps including: establish company’s long-term sales and profit objective; develop the mix of products; identify target selling price for each product; identify profit margin for each product; and calculate allowable cost of each product.\n\nCompany’s long-term sales and profit objectives are developed from an extensive analysis of relevant information relating to customers, market and products. Only realistic plans are accepted to proceed to the next step. Product mix is designed carefully to ensure that it satisfies many customers, but also does not contain too many products to confuse customers. Company may use simulation to explore the impact of overall profit objective to different product mixes and determine the most feasible product mix. Target selling price, target profit margin and allowable cost are identified for each product. Target selling price need to consider to the expected market condition at the time launching the product. Internal factors such as product’s functionality and profit objective, and external factors such as company’s image or expected price of competitive products will influence target selling price. Company’s long-term profit plan and life-cycle cost are considered when determining target profit margin. Firms might set up target profit margin based on either actual profit margin of previous products or target profit margin of product line. Simulation for overall group profitability can help to make sure achieving group target. Subtracting target profit margin from target selling price results in allowable cost for each product. Allowable cost is the cost that can spend on the product to ensure meeting profit target if selling it at target price. It is the signal about the magnitude of cost saving that team need to achieve.\n\nFollowing the completion of market-driven costing, the next task of the target costing process is product-level target costing. Product-level target costing concentrates on designing products that satisfy the company's customers at the allowable cost. To achieve this goal, product-level target costing is typically divided into three steps as shown below.\nThe first step is to set a product-level target cost. Since the allowable cost is simply obtained from external conditions without considering the design capabilities of the company as well as the realistic cost for manufacturing, it may not be always achievable in practice. Thus, it is necessary to adjust the unachievable allowable cost to an achievable target cost that the cost increase should be reduced with great effort. The second step is to discipline this target cost process, including monitoring the relationship between the target cost and the estimated product cost at any point during the design process, applying the cardinal rule so that the total target costs at the component-level does not exceed the target cost of the product, and allowing exceptions for products violating the cardinal rule. For a product exception to the cardinal rule, two analyses are often performed after the launch of the product. One involves reviewing the design process to find out why the target cost was unachieved. The other is an immediate effort to reduce the excessive cost to ensure that the period of violation is as short as possible. Once the target cost-reduction objective is identified, the product-level target costing comes to the final step, finding ways to achieve it. Engineering methods such as value engineering (VE), design for manufacture and assembly (DFMA), and quality function deployment (QFD) are commonly adopted in this step.\n\nValue engineering (VE), also known as value analysis (VA), plays a crucial role in the target costing process, particularly at the product level and the component level. Among the three aforementioned methods in achieving the target cost, VE is the most critical one because not only does it attempt to reduce costs, but also aims to improve the functionality and quality of products. There are a variety of practical VE strategies, including zero-look, first-look and second-look VE approaches, as well as teardown approaches.\n\nRegarding the complexity of problems in the real world, implementing the target costing process often relies on the computer simulation to reproduce stochastic elements. For example, many firms use simulation to study the complex relationship between selling prices and profit margins, the impact of individual product decisions on overall group profitability, the right mix of products to enhance overall profit, or other economic modeling to overcome organizational inertia by getting the most productive reasoning. In addition, simulation helps estimate results rapidly for dynamic process changes.\n\nThe factors influencing the target costing process is broadly categorized based on how a company's strategy for a product's quality, functionality and price change over time. However, some factors play a specific role based on what drives a company's approach to target costing.\n\nIntensity of competition and nature of the customer affect market-driven costing. Competitors introducing similar products has been shown to drive rival companies to expend energy on implementing target costing systems such as in the case of Toyota and Nissan or Apple and Google. The costing process is also affected by the level of customer sophistication, changing requirements and the degree to which their future requirements are known. The automotive and camera industry are prime examples for how customers affect target costing based on their exact requirements.\n\nProduct strategy and product characteristics affect product-level target costing. Characteristics of product strategy such as number of products in line, rate of redesign operations and level of innovation are shown to have an effect. Higher number of products has a direct correlation with the benefits of target costing. Frequent redesigns lead to the introduction of new products that have created better benefits to target costing. It has to be noted that the value of historical information reduces with greater innovation, thereby, reducing the benefits of product level target costing.\n\nThe degree of complexity of the product, level of investments required and the duration of product development process make up the factors that affect the target costing process based on product characteristics. Product viability is determined by the aforementioned factors. In turn, the target costing process is also modified to suit the different degrees of complexity required.\n\nSupplier-Base strategy is the main factor that determines component-level target costing because it is known to play a key role in the details a firm has about its supplier capabilities. There are three characteristics that make up the supplier-base strategy, including the degree of horizontal integration, power over suppliers and nature of supplier relations. Horizontal integration captures the fraction of product costs sourced externally. Cost pressures on suppliers can drive target costing if the buying power of firms is high enough. In turn, this may lead to better benefits. More cooperative supplier relations have been shown to increase mutual benefits in terms of target costs particularly at a component level.\n\nAside from the application of target costing in the field of manufacturing, target costing are also widely used in the following areas.\n\nAn Energy Retrofit Loan Analysis Model has been developed using a Monte Carlo (MC) method for target costing in Energy Efficient buildings and construction. MC method has been shown to be effective in determining the impact of financial uncertainties in project performance.\n\nTarget Value Design Decision Making Process (TVD-DMP) groups a set of energy efficiency methods at different optimization levels to evaluate costs and uncertainties involved in the energy efficiency process. Some major design parameters are specified using this methods including Facility Operation Schedule, Orientation, Plug load, HVAC and lighting systems.\n\nThe entire process consists of three phases: initiation, definition and alignment. Initiation stage involves developing a business case for energy efficiency using target value design (TVD) training, organization and compensation. The definition process involves defining and validating the case by tools such as values analysis and bench marking processes to determine the allowable costs. By setting targets and designing the design process to align with those targets, TVD-DMP has been shown to achieve a high level of collaboration needed for energy efficiency investments. This is done by using risk analysis tools, pull planning and rapid estimating processes.\n\nTarget costing and target value design have applications in building healthcare facilities including critical components such as Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICUs). The process is influenced by unit locations, degree of comfort, number of patients per room, type of supply location and access to nature. According to National Vital Statistics Reports, 12.18% of 2009 births were premature and the cost per infant was $51,600. This led to opportunities for NICUs to implement target value design for deciding whether to build a single-family room or more open-bay NICUs. This was achieved using set-based design analysis which challenges the designer to generate multiple alternatives for the same functionality. Designs are evaluated keeping in mind the requirements of the various stakeholders in the NICU including nurses, doctors, family members and administrators. Unlike linear point-based design, set-based design narrows options to the optimal one by eliminating alternatives simultaneously defined by user constraints.\n\nAbout 15% construction project in Japan adopted target costing for their cost planning and management as recognized by Jacomit (2008). In the U.S., target costing research has been carried out within the framework of lean construction as target value design (TVD) method and have been disseminated widely over construction industry in recent years. Research has proven that if being applied systematically, TVD can deliver a significant improvement in project performance with average reduction of 15% in comparison with market cost.\nTVD in construction project considers the final cost of project as a design parameter, similar to the capacity and aesthetics requirements for the project. TVD requires the project team to develop a target cost from the beginning. The project team is expected not to design exceeding the target cost without the owner’s approval, and must use different skills to maintain this target cost. In some cases, the cost can increase but the project team must commit to decrease and must try their best to decrease without impacting on other functions of the project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3126176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3126176", "title": "Tax advisor", "text": "Tax advisor\n\nA tax advisor or tax consultant is a person with advanced training and knowledge of tax law. The services of a tax advisor are usually retained in order to minimize taxation while remaining compliant with the law in complicated financial situations. Tax Advisors are also retained to represent clients before tax authorities and tax courts to resolve tax issues.\n\nIn Austria, Steuerberater is the professional license for tax advisors.\n\nIn Germany, Steuerberater is the professional license for tax advisors.\n\nIn Italy, tax advisors are called \"commercialisti\", and provide assistance on business management, business law, economics, finance, tax, accounting, commercial, corporate and administrative matters. \"Dottori commercialisti\", who have a degree in economics, and \"ragionieri commercialisti\", who have a diploma from an \"istituto tecnico economico\", were members of two different professional orders, but they were merged in 2008 and it is now impossible to become a \"commercialista\" without a \"\". \"Esperti contabili\", whose roles are similar to those of a \"commercialista\", must have a \"\", a first cycle degree that is equivalent to a bachelor's degree. According to the Italian law, the following activities are some of the roles of a \"commercialista\":\n\nIn Japan, there is a specific license for tax advisors called . In order to obtain this qualification, an individual must pass a special state examination, or already be qualified as an attorney at law or certified public accountant.\n\nIn South Korea, there is a specific license for tax advisors called certified tax accountant. In order to obtain this qualification, an individual must pass a special examination.\n\nIn the UK, guidelines concerning professional conduct in relation to taxation are published in conjunction with the Chartered Institute of Taxation, the Association of Taxation Technicians, the Institute of Indirect Taxation, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. These were prepared for the assistance of members of the various associations both generally in dealing with clients and the tax authorities and specifically in relation to irregularities and errors. \n\nThe guidelines, which include practical advice about a range of legal and ethical issues, are summarised as:\n\n\nIn the United States, paid tax return preparers are regulated but not licensed by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States Department of the Treasury. There are penalties for failure to disclose the identity of the preparer on the return, for the failure to give the taxpayer a copy of the return, and for negligence in preparing the return.\n\nPractice before the Internal Revenue Service is regulated by \"Treasury Department Circular No. 230\", \"Regulations Governing the Practice of Attorneys, Certified Public Accountants, Enrolled Agents, Enrolled Actuaries, and Appraisers before the Internal Revenue Service\". Most practice is limited to attorneys, Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), enrolled agents, and enrolled actuaries. Rendering tax advice is also regulated by Circular 230.\n\nFailure to uphold these standards can result in disciplinary action ranging from reprimand to permanent disbarrment from practice.\n\nIn the United States, the term \"tax professional\" is a generic term describing a variety of professions including enrolled agents, Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), financial planners, accountants, tax preparers, and some lawyers.\n\nIn the United States, by far the largest segment of tax professionals are individual tax preparers.\n\n"}
{"id": "27810619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27810619", "title": "Too Big to Fail (film)", "text": "Too Big to Fail (film)\n\nToo Big to Fail is an American biographical drama television film first broadcast on HBO on May 23, 2011 based on Andrew Ross Sorkin's non-fiction book \"\" (2009). The film was directed by Curtis Hanson. It received 11 nominations at the 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards; Paul Giamatti's portrayal of Ben Bernanke earned him the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Miniseries or Television Movie at the 18th Screen Actors Guild Awards.\n\n\"Too Big to Fail\" chronicles the 2008 financial meltdown, focusing on the actions of U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson (William Hurt) and Ben Bernanke (Paul Giamatti), Chairman of the Federal Reserve System, to contain the problems during the period of August 2008 to October 13, 2008. The film starts with clips of news reports about the mortgage industry crisis and the forced sale of the troubled Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase, with Fed guarantees.\n\nWith Bear Stearns out of the picture, short sellers have turned their attention on Lehman Brothers. In need of capital, CEO Dick Fuld (James Woods) reluctantly fires COO Joe Gregory and CFO Erin Callan, naming Bart McDade as the new President and COO. McDade negotiates a deal with Korean investors, but the deal falls through when Fuld interrupts the negotiations and tries to convince the Koreans that they are undervaluing the toxic real estate assets.\n\nPaulson is adamant that the government will not subsidize any more acquisitions, but it becomes clear the most promising buyer for Lehman, Bank of America, is uninterested without Fed involvement. Paulson and President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Timothy Geithner (Billy Crudup) gather the leaders of the biggest banks, including Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein (Evan Handler), JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon (Bill Pullman), and Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack (Tony Shaloub), to convince them to underwrite the deal themselves. During a break in negotiations, another threatened firm, Merrill Lynch, approaches Bank of America to buy them instead, which Paulson tacitly okays. With Bank of America purchasing Merrill Lynch, the only other buyer is British firm Barclays, but their involvement is blocked by British banking regulators. Lehman collapses and is forced into bankruptcy. Meanwhile, insurance firm AIG also begins to fail.\n\nLehman's collapse affects the entire financial market, and the stock market goes into freefall. Blankfein, Mack, and General Electric CEO Jeffrey Immelt inform Paulson they are unable to do business, and French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde warns him that he must not allow AIG to fail. Unlike Lehman, the Treasury rescues AIG with an $85 billion loan.\n\nBernanke argues that the Congress must pass legislation to authorize any continued intervention by the Fed or the Treasury. With the availability of credit drying up, Paulson's plan is to buy the toxic assets from the banks to take the risk off their books and increase their cash reserves. Bernanke and Paulson lobby Congress, with Bernanke emphasizing the potential of fallout worse than the Great Depression if they fail to act. Paulson threatens U.S. Senator and Presidential candidate John McCain not to interfere and begs Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi not to back away from the negotiations. After a wave of panic and personal haranguing from President George W. Bush, the legislation passes on a second attempt and the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) is created.\n\nPaulson's team realizes that buying toxic assets will take too long, leaving direct capital injects into the banks as their only option to use TARP get credit flowing again. Along with FDIC Chair Sheila Bair, Paulson informs the banks that they will receive mandatory capital injections. The banks eventually agree, but Paulson's staff laments that the parties who caused the crisis are being allowed to dictate the terms of how they should use the billions with which they are being bailed out. An epilogue notes that bank mergers continued in the wake of the crisis, and that now only ten financial institutions hold 77% of all U.S. banking assets and have been declared too big to fail.\n\nThe cast includes the following:\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 74%, based on 27 reviews, and an average rating of 6/10. On Metacritic, the movie received a weighted average score of 67/100 from 17 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n\"The A.V. Club\" gave the film a B rating.\n\n2011 Emmy Awards\n\n2012 Golden Globe Awards\n\n2012 Screen Actors Guild Awards\n\n2012 Writers Guild of America Awards \n\nThe DVD was released on June 12, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "44857782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44857782", "title": "Tripoli Entrepreneurs Club", "text": "Tripoli Entrepreneurs Club\n\nThe Tripoli Entrepreneurs Club was launched in November 2013 in Tripoli, Lebanon. It is a grass roots initiative aimed at inspiring and supporting local youth to think critically about how to start a business through workshops and Young Entrepreneur Boot Camps among other events.\n\nThe idea started as a response to an urgent need in the community: finding a solution for the lack of job opportunities and high unemployment rates. One of the main objectives of this club is to enable youth to create businesses which can generate jobs and economic growth in the near future.\n\nThe broad mission of TEC is to strengthen the social and economic backbone of Tripoli, Lebanon through providing aspiring entrepreneurs and youth with strong mentorship and the infrastructure needed to grow new companies.\n\nThe organisation has been featured on TV and received positive mention from British Ambassador to Lebanon, Tom Fletcher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38438494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38438494", "title": "United States Cartridge Company", "text": "United States Cartridge Company\n\nThe United States Cartridge Company was an early manufacturer of cartridge ammunition for small arms. The company was founded in 1869 by American Civil War general Benjamin Butler. Company startup was during the most rapid evolution of cartridge design to date. Lowell, Massachusetts emerged as one of the most successful cartridge producers in the United States while Butler served as a congressman from Massachusetts from 1867 to 1879 and as governor from 1883 to 1884. After supplying 65 percent of American small arms ammunition production for World War I, the company was acquired by the owner of Winchester Repeating Arms; and the Lowell factory closed as manufacturing shifted to New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nBenjamin Butler, a lawyer who grew up on Lowell, became a major shareholder of Middlesex Mills in the 1850s; because of his successful law practice he was one of Lowell's wealthiest residents at the end of the Civil War. With other local capitalists, he formed the Wamesit Power Company, the United States Bunting Company, and the United States Cartridge Company. Patent attorney Joe V. Meigs invented an improved metallic cartridge for the company; and oversaw production beginning in 1869. Meigs was replaced in the mid-1870s by Charles Dimon, who had been an officer under Butler's command during the Civil War. By the early 1880s, the company employed 250 workers producing cartridges, paper-shot-shells, and primers. Paul Butler assumed control of the company when his father died in 1893. Benjamin Butler's grandson, Butler Ames, replaced Charles Dimon in 1902.\n\nA 29 July 1903 powder magazine explosion in Tewksbury, Massachusetts destroyed or damaged seventy homes killing 22 employees and residents and injuring 70 more. New brick magazines and factories replaced early wooden structures prior to World War I.\n\nThe company employed 1,200 when British purchasing agents arrived in September 1914 to request expanded production. Lowell's Bigelow carpet factory was converted to ammunition production, and a new ammunition factory was built in South Lowell. As employment swelled to 15,000, a labor strike in the autumn of 1915 was resolved within a month to sustain ammunition production. A total of 2,262,671,000 military cartridges were manufactured for the United Kingdom, Russia, the Netherlands, Italy, France, and the United States.\n\nNational Lead Company purchased a controlling stock interest after Paul Butler died in 1918. Cartridge manufacturing machinery was moved from Lowell to New Haven in 1926 where manufacturing continued under the Winchester name after the Lowell plants closed on 1 January 1927.\n\nWinchester was purchased by Olin Corporation on 22 December 1931. Olin used their subsidiary United States Cartridge Company to build and operate the Saint Louis Ordnance Plant manufacturing military small arms ammunition in St. Louis through World War II.\n"}
{"id": "36492880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36492880", "title": "Wiebe Draijer", "text": "Wiebe Draijer\n\nWiebe Draijer (August 27, 1965) is a Dutch engineer, and management consultant for McKinsey. From 2012-2014 he was crown member and chairman of the Social-Economic Council. Since October 2014 he has been Chairman of the Managing Board (CEO) of Rabobank.\n\nBorn and growing up in Enschede, Draijer wanted to be a reporter, but an uncle advised him to complete a professional study before trying his hand at journalism. Following this advise Draijer studied mechanical engineering at the Delft University of Technology from 1983 to 1989. During his time as a student he also worked as a freelance reporter for NRC Handelsblad. From 1987 to 1989 he completed a traineeship and a year as a researcher at Philips Research Laboratories.\n\nHaving completed his university education, he joined McKinsey & Company as a fellow. Augmenting his earlier education with an MBA at INSEAD in Fontainebleau, he was promoted to country managing partner for the Netherlands in 2004 and for the Benelux in 2006.\n\nDuring his career at McKinsey, Draijer held several highly visible positions in Dutch society. Among others he was chairman of the Stichting Toekomstbeeld der Techniek (of which he is still a member of the board), member of the supervisory board of the Kröller-Müller Museum, member of the advisory board for \"Champs on Stage\" (an organization focusing on reducing highschool dropout), member of the advisory board for World Press Photo, member of the Innovatieplatform (a government advisory board to stimulate the Dutch knowledge economy) and member of the Education Innovation Network. He was also a founding member of 21minuten.nl (now De Nationale Dialoog), a website focused on generating public debate on political issues as well as more active citizenship.\n\nOn 19 June 2012 Henk Kamp (the Dutch Minister of Social Affairs) nominated Draijer to succeed Alexander Rinnooy Kan as SER-chairman per 1 September 2012. The SER endorsed this nomination on 21 June 2012 and his appointment became final with Queen Beatrix signing the appointment in July 2012.\n\nOn 1 July 2014 Draijer left the SER and started to work for Rabobank. On 10 September 2014 he was succeeded as chair of the SER by Mariëtte Hamer. He was appointed Chairman of the Managing Board of Rabobank on 1 October 2014. He is also a Member of the Board of the Dutch Banking Association, and a Member of the Board of the European Association of Cooperative Banks (EACB). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7745750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7745750", "title": "William H. Emory", "text": "William H. Emory\n\nWilliam Hemsley Emory (September 7, 1811 – December 1, 1887) was a prominent American surveyor and civil engineer in the 19th century. As an officer in the U.S. Army Corps of Topographical Engineers he specialized in mapping the United States border, including the Texas–Mexico border, and the Gadsden Purchase border, 1844–1855, and published lasting scientific reports on the border region.\n\nEmory was born in Queen Anne's County, Maryland, on his family's \"Poplar Grove\" estate. He attended the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, and graduated in 1831. Assigned as a second lieutenant, he served in the Fourth Artillery until he resigned from the service in 1836 to pursue civil engineering, but he returned to the service in 1838 as lieutenant in the newly formed Corps of Topographical Engineers.\n\nWilliam H. Emory was most importantly a topographical engineer and explorer. From 1839 to 1842, he surveyed harbors and the Delaware River. In 1844, Emory served in an expedition that produced a new map of Texan claims westward to the Rio Grande, which brought him national attention as the war with Mexico seemed eminent. He next conducted a boundary survey of the Canada–United States border (1844–1846). His mapmaking skills were so superb and detailed with such great accuracy that he often made other maps obsolete; thus making him the authority of the trans-Mississippi west.\n\nAt the start of the Mexican War, Emory was selected to join General Stephen Watts Kearny and the Army of the West (1846) to take New Mexico and California. Along the way he kept a detailed journal of the march down the Rio Grande and across to the Gila River, and down it to its mouth on the Colorado River, then to the Pacific Coast. Published by the Thirtieth United States Congress in 1848 as \"Notes of a Military Reconnaissance from Fort Leavenworth to San Diego,\" it became an important guide book for the road to Southern California. This report described terrain and rivers, cities and forts and made observations about Native Americans, Mexicans, primarily in future New Mexico Territory, Arizona Territory and Southern California. It was and is considered one of the important chronicles and descriptions of the historic Southwest, particularly noted for its maps. Emory was a reliable and conscientious cartographer.\n\nAfter the War, Emory was sent with a crew to survey the new United States-Mexico boundary, first from the mouth of the Gila across California to the coast and then 2d, with the Bartlett survey from El Paso west, 1849–1853. A dispute arose among the Mexicans and Americans over the location of the starting line near El Paso caused by an error in the original map referred to in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo (1848). A compromise by John Bartlett brought an international incident when neither side agreed to the boundary and threatened renewed hostilities in the Mesilla Valley above El Paso. A compromise was reached with the Gadsden Purchase of 1854, and Emory was selected to lead the American boundary commission to survey, 1855–1856, the new boundary line (earlier he had influenced the debate over approving the treaty by advising Senator Thomas Jefferson Rusk of Texas on the best route for a southern transcontinental railroad, one of the key points of the Gadsden Treaty). \n\nThere is a story of testament as to Emory's dedication to accuracy that says John Bartlett his supervisor in the boundary survey made him sign off on a misplaced boundary marker, creating a sweet revenge for Emory who replaced him as Head of the International Boundary Commission in 1855. But William H. Emory did more than just map the terrain; he also made notes about the plant life as well as the people who inhabited the sparsely populated Southwest. Notating the social relations of some of the Native American people, he wrote: \"Women, when captured, are taken as wives by those who capture them, but they are treated by the Indian wives of the capturers as slaves, and made to carry wood and water; if they chance to be pretty, or receive too much attention from their lords and masters, they are, in the absence of the latter, unmercifully beaten and otherwise maltreated. The most unfortunate thing which can befall a captive woman is to be claimed by two persons. In this case, she is either shot or delivered up for indiscriminate violence.\"[2] His multi-volume boundary survey published as the \"Report of the United States and Mexican Boundary Commission, Made Under the Direction of the Secretary of the Interior\", 2 vols (Washington, GPO, 1857–1859, reprint Austin:Texas Historical Association, 1987) was not only a contribution to understanding the geography of the region but as a long-standing scientific contribution to the natural history of the region.\n\nIn 1861, when the American Civil War broke out, Emory was stationed in the Indian Territory. Anticipating the possible capture of his troops by Confederates, he secured the services of Black Beaver, a famous Lenape warrior, to guide Emory's troops to safety. He promised that the government would compensate Black Beaver for the loss of his ranch. Emory withdrew Union troops from Fort Washita to Fort Leavenworth. During the withdrawal, Black Beaver also scouted pursuing enemy troops, and Emory attacked and captured lead elements of his pursuers, the first prisoners captured during the Civil War.\n\nEmory served as a brigade commander in the Army of the Potomac in 1862, and was transferred to the Western Theater. He was promoted to brigadier general of volunteers on March 17, 1862. He later commanded a division in the Port Hudson campaign. He subsequently returned to the East as the commander of the Nineteenth Corps, serving in all the major battles in the Shenandoah Valley Campaign of 1864, especially at the Battle of Cedar Creek, where Emory's actions helped save the Union army from a devastating defeat until Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan's arrival.\n\nAt the end of the war, Emory held the rank of colonel in the Regular Army and a brevet (honorary promotion) as major general. He was promoted to major general in the volunteers on September 25, 1865 and was mustered out of the volunteers on January 15, 1866.\n\nAfter the war, Emory held a number of posts, most importantly commander of the Department of the Gulf (which included the Federal troops in Louisiana, Arkansas, and Mississippi)–a demanding and dangerous Reconstruction assignment. In September 1874, President Ulysses S. Grant ordered Emory to New Orleans, where he successfully negotiated a peace with the conservative White League who had taken over the city by military force. As a result, Republican Governor Kellogg was restored to power and the White League disbanded. For political reasons, General Sheridan removed Emory from command and saw to it that he was retired in 1876. The Department of the Gulf was soon shifted to Sheridan's large Division of the Missouri, which included Texas.\n\nHe was a companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States. In 1879 he became a Veteran Member of the Aztec Club of 1847.\n\nEmory married Matilda Wilkins Bache on May 29, 1838 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Bache was the daughter of Richard Bache, Jr., and Sophia Burrell Dallas. She was a granddaughter of Sarah Franklin Bache and Richard Bache, and a great-granddaughter of Benjamin Franklin, as well as a niece of George Mifflin Dallas, the 11th Vice President of the United States, serving under James K. Polk.\n\nHis eldest son, Brevet Lieut. Colonel Campbell Dallas Emory, 9th United States Infantry, was Aide de Camp to Major General George G. Meade during the Civil War and a younger son, William H. Emory, Jr., was a rear admiral in the United States Navy.\n\nEmory died December 1, 1887 in Washington, D.C. He is buried in the Congressional Cemetery in Washington, DC.\n\nEmory Pass, 8,228 feet, in the Black Range of southwest New Mexico was named for him.\n\nEmory Peak (7,825 ft) in Big Bend National Park is named for him.\n\nFort Emory was named for him in 1942. It is now used as a training area for Special Forces.\n\nIn 1853, Baird and Girard named the Great Plains rat snake, \"Pantherophis emoryi\", for Emory. The first specimens of this snake species were collected by John H. Clark and Arthur Schott at Howard Springs, Texas, under Emory's leadership during the United States and Mexican Boundary Survey. Emory is also commemorated in the scientific name of the Texas spiny softshell turtle, \"Apalone spinifera emoryi\".\n\nEmory Elementary School bears his namesake, and is located near the site where he determined the US-Mexico border between San Diego/Tijuana and the Colorado River.\n\nThe astronauts of Apollo 17 named a small crater after him.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
