{"id": "55563659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55563659", "title": "Anna Coutsoudis", "text": "Anna Coutsoudis\n\nAnna Coutsoudis (born 21 September 1952) is a South African public health scientist and academic who has conducted research on HIV and nutrition, specializing in the benefits of breastfeeding. An elected member of the Academy of Science of South Africa, she is a founder member and chair of iThemba Lethu, an organization for children with HIV, which provides a community-based breast milk bank.\n\nCoutsoudis received her BSc from the University of Natal in 1974, followed by a Higher Diploma in Education in 1975. Later, while raising a family, she completed her studies at the same university, earning a PhD from the Department of Paediatrics and Child Health with a thesis titled \"Epidemiological and clinical studies of vitamin A in Black South African pre-school children\".\n\nShe was honoured by an award from La Leche League International in 2001 for stressing the benefits of breastfeeding while in 2004 her extensive work on nutrition research was recognized by the Nutrition Society of South Africa.\n\nIn Mexico at the International AIDS Society Conference in 2008, Coutsoudis presented a convincing and well-received paper which stressed the benefits of breastfeeding for HIV-affected infants. The following year, an article she and her colleague Hoosen Coovadia published in \"The Lancet\" called on the South African government to stop providing free formula milk to HIV-infected mothers, causing outrage from HIV activists. In particular, Cousoudis criticized the commercial promotion of formula milk for young babies in South Africa, especially as it countered recommendations from the World Health Organization. In September 2016, Coutsoudis participated in the International Atomic Energy Agency's 60th conference in Vienna where she was a key speaker at a well-attended event on \"Nuclear Techniques to Assess Breastfeeding Practices\".\n\nCoutsoudis has served on various committees of the World Health Organizaion including the Steering Committee of the Child and Adolescent Health Unit and guideline development groups on Vitamin A Supplementation and HIV and Infant Feeding. She has published over 100 peer-reviewed scientific articles.\n\nIn 2009, Anna Coutsoudis was awarded the Science for Society Gold Medal by the Academy of Science of South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "22701392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22701392", "title": "Austrian Latin America Institute", "text": "Austrian Latin America Institute\n\nThe Austrian Latin America Institute (\"Österreichisches Lateinamerika-Institut\", LAI) is an interdisciplinary orientated organisation, aiming at intensifying dialogue and exchange between Austria and Latin America. It was founded as an association in 1965 and receives subsidies for its work in development politics as well as scientific and cultural events and projects. About half of the annual budget originates from its own resources, mainly language courses as well as membership fees. In 1994 the institute moved to the historic Palais Schlick in Vienna's 9th district Alsergrund.\n\nThe Austrian Latin America Institute coordinates the \"Interdisciplinary Master Degree Programme in Latin-American Studies\" (\"Interdisziplinärer Universitätslehrgang für Höhere Lateinamerika-Studien\") in cooperation with the University of Vienna. This is the only \"university level\" course about Latin America in Austria. The degree is Master of Arts in Latin American studies.\n\nThe Austrian Latin America Institute has the only library and documentation centre in Austria specializing in Latin America. The collection focuses on specialist books and journals on economy, politics, history, culture, society and ecology of the Latin American countries. Furthermore, it has literary works by Latin American authors in Spanish and Portuguese and their translations. The library represents Austria in REDIAL.\n\nThe Austrian Latin America Institute is Austria's largest language school for Spanish, Portuguese and Indigenous languages offering about 300 courses annually.\n\nThe Austrian Latin America Institute offers information and advice to all people interested in Latin America and Latin American students in particular.\n\nThe event calendar includes exhibitions, book presentations, concerts, lectures and discussions.\n\nThe Austrian Latin America Institute itself is no research institute, but it supports the \"Austrian Study-Group for Latin-American Research\" (\"Arbeitsgemeinschaft Österreichische Lateinamerikaforschung\"). The object of this association is scientific networking, interdisciplinary exchange and cooperation of researchers in Austria. It regards itself as an open forum offering young scientists the opportunity to present and discuss their work. In 2007 the Study-Group had 108 members from Austria, Europe and Latin America. The annual conference is held in Strobl am Wolfgangsee. The Study-Group was founded in 1983 by members of the Austrian Latin America Institute and is partner of CEISAL (\"Consejo Europeo de Investigaciones Sociales de América Latina\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "125248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=125248", "title": "Charles, Prince of Wales", "text": "Charles, Prince of Wales\n\nCharles, Prince of Wales (Charles Philip Arthur George; born 14 November 1948) is the heir apparent to the British throne as the eldest child of Queen Elizabeth II. He has been Duke of Cornwall and Duke of Rothesay since 1952, and is the oldest and longest-serving heir apparent in British history. He is also the longest-serving Prince of Wales, having held that title since 1958.\n\nCharles was born at Buckingham Palace as the first grandchild of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth. He was educated at Cheam and Gordonstoun Schools, which his father, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, had attended as a child, as well as the Timbertop campus of Geelong Grammar School in Victoria, Australia. After earning a bachelor of arts degree from Trinity College, Cambridge, Charles served in the Royal Air Force and Royal Navy from 1971 to 1976.\n\nIn 1981, he married Lady Diana Spencer and they had two sons: Prince William (b. 1982)—later to become Duke of Cambridge—and Prince Harry (b. 1984)—later to become Duke of Sussex. In 1996, the couple divorced following well-publicised extramarital affairs by both parties. Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris the following year. In 2005, Charles married long-time partner Camilla Parker Bowles.\n\nCharles founded The Prince's Trust in 1976, sponsors The Prince's Charities, and is a patron, president and a member of over 400 other charities and organisations. As an environmentalist, he raises awareness of organic farming and climate change which has earned him awards and recognition from environmental groups. His support for alternative medicine, including homeopathy, has been criticised by some in the medical community and his views on the role of architecture in society and the conservation of historic buildings has received considerable attention from British architects and design critics. Since 1993, Charles has worked on the creation of Poundbury, an experimental new town based on his preferences. He is also an author and co-author of a number of books.\n\nCharles was born at Buckingham Palace in London during the reign of his maternal grandfather George VI on 14 November 1948, at 9:14 pm (GMT), the first child of Princess Elizabeth, Duchess of Edinburgh, and Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, and first grandchild of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth. He was baptised in the palace's Music Room by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Geoffrey Fisher, on 15 December 1948.\nThe death of his grandfather and the accession of his mother as Queen Elizabeth II in 1952 made Charles her heir apparent. As the monarch's eldest son, he automatically took the titles Duke of Cornwall, Duke of Rothesay, Earl of Carrick, Baron of Renfrew, Lord of the Isles and Prince and Great Steward of Scotland. Charles attended his mother's coronation at Westminster Abbey on 2 June 1953. As was customary for upper-class children at the time, a governess, Catherine Peebles, was appointed and undertook his education between the ages of five and eight. Buckingham Palace announced in 1955 that Charles would attend school rather than have a private tutor, making him the first heir apparent ever to be educated in that manner.\n\nCharles attended Hill House School in west London. He did not receive preferential treatment from the school's founder and then-head, Stuart Townend, who advised the Queen to have Charles train in football because the boys were never deferential to anyone on the football field. Charles then attended two of his father's former schools, Cheam Preparatory School in Berkshire, England, followed by Gordonstoun in the north-east of Scotland. Though he reportedly characterised the latter school, noted for its especially rigorous curriculum, as \"Colditz in kilts\", Charles subsequently praised Gordonstoun, stating it had taught him \"a great deal about myself and my own abilities and disabilities. It taught me to accept challenges and take the initiative.\" In a 1975 interview, he said he was \"glad\" he had attended Gordonstoun and that the \"toughness of the place\" was \"much exaggerated\". He spent two terms in 1966 at the Timbertop campus of Geelong Grammar School in Victoria, Australia, during which time he visited Papua New Guinea on a school trip with his history tutor, Michael Collins Persse. In 1973, Charles described his time at Timbertop as the most enjoyable part of his whole education.\n\nUpon his return to Gordonstoun, Charles emulated his father in becoming Head Boy. He left in 1967, with six GCE O-levels and two A-levels in history and French, at grades B and C respectively. On his early education, Charles later remarked, \"I didn't enjoy school as much as I might have, but that was only because I'm happier at home than anywhere else.\" Charles broke royal tradition a second time when he proceeded straight to university after his A-levels, rather than joining the British Armed Forces. In October 1967, he was admitted to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he read anthropology, archaeology, and history. During his second year, Charles attended the University College of Wales in Aberystwyth, studying Welsh history and language for a term. He graduated from Cambridge with a 2:2 Bachelor of Arts on 23 June 1970, the first heir apparent to earn a university degree. On 2 August 1975, he was awarded a Master of Arts degree from Cambridge, in accordance with the university's practice.\n\nCharles was created Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester on 26 July 1958, though his investiture was not held until 1 July 1969, when he was crowned by his mother in a televised ceremony held at Caernarfon Castle. He took his seat in the House of Lords in 1970, and he made his maiden speech at a debate in June 1974, becoming the first royal to speak in the Lords since his great-great-grandfather, later Edward VII, also speaking as Prince of Wales, in 1884. Charles began to take on more public duties, founding The Prince's Trust in 1976, and travelling to the United States in 1981. In the mid-1970s, the prince expressed an interest in serving as Governor-General of Australia, at the suggestion of Australian prime minister Malcolm Fraser, but because of a lack of public enthusiasm nothing came of the proposal. Charles accepted the decision, if not without some regret; he said: \"So, what are you supposed to think when you are prepared to do something to help and you are just told you're not wanted?\"\n\nCharles is the longest serving Prince of Wales, having surpassed the record held by Edward VII on 9 September 2017. He is the oldest and longest-serving British heir apparent, the longest-serving Duke of Cornwall, and the longest-serving Duke of Rothesay. If he became monarch at present he would be the oldest person to do so; the record holder is William IV, who was 64 when he became king in 1830.\n\nCharles followed family tradition when he served in the Royal Air Force and Royal Navy. During his second year at Cambridge, he requested and received Royal Air Force training. On 8 March 1971, he flew himself to the Royal Air Force College Cranwell to train as a jet pilot. After the passing-out parade that September, he embarked on a naval career and enrolled in a six-week course at the Royal Naval College Dartmouth. He then served on the guided missile destroyer (1971–1972) and the frigates (1972–1973) and (1974). In 1974, he qualified as a helicopter pilot at RNAS Yeovilton, and then joined 845 Naval Air Squadron, operating from .\n\nOn 9 February 1976, he took command of the coastal minehunter for his last ten months of active service in the navy. He learned to fly on a Chipmunk basic pilot trainer, a BAC Jet Provost jet trainer, and a Beagle Basset multi-engine trainer; he then regularly flew the Hawker Siddeley Andover, Westland Wessex and BAe 146 aircraft of The Queen's Flight until he gave up flying after crashing the BAe 146 in the Hebrides in 1994.\n\nIn his youth, Charles was amorously linked to a number of women. His great-uncle Lord Mountbatten advised him:In a case like yours, the man should sow his wild oats and have as many affairs as he can before settling down, but for a wife he should choose a suitable, attractive, and sweet-charactered girl before she has met anyone else she might fall for ... It is disturbing for women to have experiences if they have to remain on a pedestal after marriage.\n\nCharles's girlfriends included Georgiana Russell, the daughter of the British Ambassador to Spain; Lady Jane Wellesley, the daughter of the 8th Duke of Wellington; Davina Sheffield; Lady Sarah Spencer; and Camilla Shand, who later became his second wife and Duchess of Cornwall.\n\nEarly in 1974, Mountbatten began corresponding with Charles about a potential marriage to Amanda Knatchbull, who was Mountbatten's granddaughter. Charles wrote to Amanda's mother—Lady Brabourne, who was also his godmother—expressing interest in her daughter, to which she replied approvingly, though she suggested that a courtship with the not yet 17-year-old girl was premature. Four years later, Mountbatten arranged for Amanda and himself to accompany Charles on his 1980 tour of India. Both fathers, however, objected; Philip feared that Charles would be eclipsed by his famous uncle (who had served as the last British Viceroy and first Governor-General of India), while Lord Brabourne warned that a joint visit would concentrate media attention on the cousins before they could decide on becoming a couple. However, in August 1979, before Charles would depart alone for India, Mountbatten was killed by the IRA. When Charles returned, he proposed to Amanda, but in addition to her grandfather, she had lost her paternal grandmother and youngest brother Nicholas in the bomb attack and was now reluctant to join the royal family. In June 1980, Charles officially turned down Chevening House, placed at his disposal since 1974, as his future residence. Chevening, a stately home in Kent, was bequeathed, along with an endowment, to the Crown by the last Earl Stanhope, Amanda's childless great-uncle, in the hope that Charles would eventually occupy it. In 1977, a newspaper report mistakenly announced his engagement to Princess Marie-Astrid of Luxembourg.\n\nCharles first met Lady Diana Spencer in 1977 while he was visiting her home, Althorp. He was the companion of her elder sister, Sarah, and did not consider Diana romantically until mid-1980. While they were sitting together on a bale of hay at a friend's barbecue in July, he mentioned Mountbatten's death, to which Diana replied that Charles had looked forlorn and in need of care during his uncle's funeral. Soon, according to Charles's chosen biographer, Jonathan Dimbleby, \"without any apparent surge in feeling, he began to think seriously of her as a potential bride\", and she accompanied Charles on visits to Balmoral Castle and Sandringham House.\n\nCharles's cousin Norton Knatchbull and his wife told Charles that Diana appeared awestruck by his position and that he did not seem to be in love with her. Meanwhile, the couple's continuing courtship attracted intense attention from the press and paparazzi. When Prince Philip told him that the media speculation would injure Diana's reputation if Charles did not come to a decision about marrying her soon, and realising that she was a suitable royal bride (according to Mountbatten's criteria), Charles construed his father's advice as a warning to proceed without further delay.\n\nPrince Charles proposed to Diana in February 1981; she accepted and they married in St Paul's Cathedral on 29 July of that year. Upon his marriage, Charles reduced his voluntary tax contribution from the profits generated by the Duchy of Cornwall from 50% to 25%. The couple lived at Kensington Palace and at Highgrove House, near Tetbury, and had two children: Princes William (b. 1982) and Henry (known as \"Harry\") (b. 1984). Charles set a precedent by being the first royal father to be present at his children's births.\n\nWithin five years, the marriage was in trouble due to the couple's incompatibility and near thirteen-year age difference. Charles resumed his relationship with his former girlfriend Camilla Parker Bowles, and Diana began one with Major James Hewitt, the family's former riding instructor. Their evident discomfort in each other's company led to them being dubbed \"The Glums\" by the press. Diana exposed Charles's affair with Camilla in a book by Andrew Morton, \"Diana, Her True Story\". Audio tapes of her own extramarital flirtations also surfaced. Persistent suggestions that Hewitt is Prince Harry's father have been based on a physical similarity between Hewitt and Harry. However, Harry had already been born by the time Diana's affair with Hewitt began.\n\nIn December 1992, British Prime Minister John Major announced the couple's formal separation in Parliament. Earlier that year, the British press had published transcripts of a passionate bugged telephone conversation between Charles and Camilla from 1989. Prince Charles sought public understanding via a televised interview with Jonathan Dimbleby on 29 June 1994. In the interview, he confirmed his own extramarital affair with Camilla, saying that he had rekindled their association in 1986 only after his marriage to Diana had \"irretrievably broken down\". Charles and Diana divorced on 28 August 1996. Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris on 31 August of the following year; Charles flew to Paris with Diana's sisters to accompany her body back to Britain.\n\nThe engagement of Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles was announced on 10 February 2005; he presented her with an engagement ring that had belonged to his grandmother. The Queen's consent to the marriage (as required by the Royal Marriages Act 1772) was recorded in a Privy Council meeting on 2 March. In Canada, the Department of Justice announced its decision that the Queen's Privy Council for Canada was not required to meet to give its consent to the marriage, as the union would not result in offspring and would have no impact on the succession to the Canadian throne.\n\nCharles was the only member of the Royal Family to have a civil rather than a church wedding in England. Government documents from the 1950s and 1960s, published by the BBC, stated that such a marriage was illegal, though these were dismissed by Charles's spokesman, and explained to be obsolete by the sitting government.\n\nThe marriage was scheduled to take place in a civil ceremony at Windsor Castle, with a subsequent religious blessing at St George's Chapel. The venue was subsequently changed to Windsor Guildhall, because a civil marriage at Windsor Castle would oblige the venue to be available to anyone who wished to be married there. Four days before the wedding, the originally scheduled date of 8 April was postponed until the following day in order to allow Charles and some of the invited dignitaries to attend the funeral of Pope John Paul II.\n\nCharles's parents did not attend the civil marriage ceremony; the Queen's reluctance to attend probably arose from her position as Supreme Governor of the Church of England. The Queen and Duke of Edinburgh did attend the service of blessing and later held a reception for the newlyweds at Windsor Castle. The blessing, by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, was televised.\n\nSince founding The Prince's Trust in 1976, Charles has established sixteen more charitable organisations, and now serves as president of all of those. Together, these form a loose alliance called The Prince's Charities, which describes itself as \"the largest multi-cause charitable enterprise in the United Kingdom, raising over £100 million annually ... [and is] active across a broad range of areas including education and young people, environmental sustainability, the built environment, responsible business and enterprise and international.\"\n\nIn 2010, The Prince's Charities Canada was established in a similar fashion to its namesake in the UK. Charles is also patron of over 350 other charities and organisations, and carries out duties related to these throughout the Commonwealth realms; for example, he uses his tours of Canada as a way to help draw attention to youth, the disabled, the environment, the arts, medicine, the elderly, heritage conservation, and education. In Canada, Charles has supported humanitarian projects. Along with his two sons, he took part in ceremonies that marked the 1998 International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. Charles has also set up The Prince's Charities Australia, which is based in Melbourne, Victoria. The Prince's Charities Australia is to provide a coordinating presence for the Prince of Wales's Australian and international charitable endeavours\n\nCharles was one of the first world leaders to express strong concerns about the human rights record of Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceaușescu, initiating objections in the international arena, and subsequently supported the FARA Foundation, a charity for Romanian orphans and abandoned children.\nIn 2013, Charles donated an unspecified sum of money to the British Red Cross Syria Crisis appeal and DEC Syria appeal, which is run by 14 British charities to help victims of the Syrian civil war. According to \"The Guardian\", It is believed that after turning 65 years old in 2013, Charles donated his state pension to an unnamed charity that supports elderly people. In March 2014, Charles arranged for five million measles-rubella vaccinations for children in the Philippines on the outbreak of measles in South-East Asia. According to Clarence House, Charles was affected by news of the damage caused by Typhoon Yolanda in 2013. International Health Partners, of which he has been Patron since 2004, sent the vaccines, which are believed to protect five million children below the age of five from measles.\n\nThe Prince of Wales has openly expressed his views on architecture and urban planning; he fostered the advancement of New Classical Architecture and asserted that he \"care[s] deeply about issues such as the environment, architecture, inner-city renewal, and the quality of life.\" In a speech given for the 150th anniversary of the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) on 30 May 1984, he memorably described a proposed extension to the National Gallery in London as a \"monstrous carbuncle on the face of a much-loved friend\" and deplored the \"glass stumps and concrete towers\" of modern architecture. He asserted that \"it is possible, and important in human terms, to respect old buildings, street plans and traditional scales and at the same time not to feel guilty about a preference for facades, ornaments and soft materials,\" called for local community involvement in architectural choices, and asked: \n\nHis book and BBC documentary \"A Vision of Britain\" (1987) was also critical of modern architecture, and he has continued to campaign for traditional urbanism, human scale, restoration of historic buildings, and sustainable design, despite criticism in the press. Two of his charities (The Prince's Regeneration Trust and The Prince's Foundation for Building Community) promote his views, and the village of Poundbury was built on land owned by the Duchy of Cornwall to a master plan by Léon Krier under the guidance of Prince Charles and in line with his philosophy.\n\nCharles helped establish a national trust for the built environment in Canada after lamenting, in 1996, the unbridled destruction of many of the country's historic urban cores. He offered his assistance to the Department of Canadian Heritage in creating a trust modelled on Britain's National Trust, a plan that was implemented with the passage of the 2007 Canadian federal budget. In 1999, the Prince agreed to the use of his title for the Prince of Wales Prize for Municipal Heritage Leadership, awarded by the Heritage Canada Foundation to municipal governments that have shown sustained commitment to the conservation of historic places. While visiting the United States and surveying the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina, Charles received the National Building Museum's Vincent Scully Prize in 2005, for his efforts in regard to architecture; he donated $25,000 of the prize money towards restoring storm-damaged communities.\n\nFrom 1997, the Prince of Wales has visited Romania to view and highlight the destruction of Orthodox monasteries and Transylvanian Saxon villages during the Communist rule of Nicolae Ceaușescu. Charles is patron of the Mihai Eminescu Trust, a Romanian conservation and regeneration organisation, and has purchased a house in Romania. Historian Tom Gallagher wrote in the Romanian newspaper \"România Liberă\" in 2006 that Charles had been offered the Romanian throne by monarchists in that country; an offer that was reportedly turned down, but Buckingham Palace denied the reports. Charles also has \"a deep understanding of Islamic art and architecture\", and has been involved in the construction of a building and garden at the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies that combine Islamic and Oxford architectural styles.\n\nCharles has occasionally intervened in projects that employ architectural styles such as modernism and functionalism. In 2009, Charles wrote to the Qatari royal family, the developers of the Chelsea Barracks site, labelling Lord Rogers's design for the site \"unsuitable\". Subsequently, Rogers was removed from the project and The Prince's Foundation for the Built Environment was appointed to propose an alternative. Rogers claimed the Prince had also intervened to block his designs for the Royal Opera House and Paternoster Square, and condemned Charles's actions as \"an abuse of power\" and \"unconstitutional\". Lord Foster, Zaha Hadid, Jacques Herzog, Jean Nouvel, Renzo Piano, and Frank Gehry, among others, wrote a letter to \"The Sunday Times\" complaining that the Prince's \"private comments\" and \"behind-the-scenes lobbying\" subverted the \"open and democratic planning process\". Piers Gough and other architects condemned Charles's views as \"elitist\" in a letter encouraging colleagues to boycott a speech given by Charles to RIBA in 2009.\n\nIn 2010, The Prince's Foundation for the Built Environment decided to help reconstruct and redesign buildings in Port-au-Prince, Haiti after the capital was destroyed by the 2010 Haiti earthquake. The foundation is known for refurbishing historic buildings in Kabul, Afghanistan and in Kingston, Jamaica. The project has been called the \"biggest challenge yet\" for the Prince's Foundation for the Built Environment. For his work as patron of New Classical Architecture, in 2012 he was awarded the Driehaus Architecture Prize for patronage. The prize, awarded by the University of Notre Dame, is considered the highest architecture award for New Classical Architecture and urban planning.\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Carpenters installed Charles as an Honorary Liveryman \"in recognition of his interest in London's architecture.\" The Prince of Wales is also Permanent Master of the Worshipful Company of Shipwrights, a Freeman of the Worshipful Company of Drapers, an Honorary Freeman of the Worshipful Company of Musicians, an Honorary Member of the Court of Assistants of the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths, and a Royal Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Gardeners.\n\nSince the early 1980s, Charles has promoted environmental awareness. Upon moving into Highgrove House, he developed an interest in organic farming, which culminated in the 1990 launch of his own organic brand, Duchy Originals, which now sells more than 200 different sustainably produced products, from food to garden furniture; the profits (over £6 million by 2010) are donated to The Prince's Charities. Documenting work on his estate, Charles co-authored (with Charles Clover, environment editor of \"The Daily Telegraph\") \"Highgrove: An Experiment in Organic Gardening and Farming\", published in 1993, and offers his patronage to Garden Organic. Along similar lines, the Prince of Wales became involved with farming and various industries within it, regularly meeting with farmers to discuss their trade. Although the 2001 foot-and-mouth epidemic in England prevented Charles from visiting organic farms in Saskatchewan, he met the farmers at Assiniboia town hall. In 2004, he founded the Mutton Renaissance Campaign, which aims to support British sheep farmers and make mutton more attractive to Britons. His organic farming has attracted media criticism: According to \"The Independent\" in October 2006, \"the story of Duchy Originals has involved compromises and ethical blips, wedded to a determined merchandising programme.\"\n\nIn 2007, he received the 10th annual Global Environmental Citizen Award from the Harvard Medical School's Center for Health and the Global Environment, the director of which, Eric Chivian, stated: \"For decades the Prince of Wales has been a champion of the natural world ... He has been a world leader in efforts to improve energy efficiency and in reducing the discharge of toxic substances on land, and into the air and the oceans\". Charles's travels by private jet drew criticism from Plane Stupid's Joss Garman.\nIn 2007, Charles launched The Prince's May Day Network, which encourages businesses to take action on climate change. Speaking to the European Parliament on 14 February 2008, he called for European Union leadership in the war against climate change. During the standing ovation that followed, Nigel Farage, the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), remained seated and went on to describe Charles's advisers as \"naive and foolish at best.\" In a speech to the Low Carbon Prosperity Summit in a European Parliament chamber on 9 February 2011, Charles said that climate change sceptics are playing \"a reckless game of roulette\" with the planet's future and are having a \"corrosive effect\" on public opinion. He also articulated the need to protect fisheries and the Amazon rain forest, and to make low-carbon emissions affordable and competitive.\nIn 2011, Charles received the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds Medal for his engagement with the environment, such as the conservation of rainforests.\n\nOn 27 August 2012, the Prince of Wales addressed the International Union for Conservation of Nature – World Conservation Congress, supporting the view that grazing animals are needed to keep soils and grassland productive:\n\nI have been particularly fascinated, for example, by the work of a remarkable man called Allan Savory, in Zimbabwe and other semi arid areas, who has argued for years against the prevailing expert view that is the simple numbers of cattle that drive overgrazing and cause fertile land to become desert. On the contrary, as he has since shown so graphically, the land needs the presence of feeding animals and their droppings for the cycle to be complete, so that soils and grassland areas stay productive. Such that, if you take grazers off the land and lock them away in vast feedlots, the land dies.\n\nIn February 2014, Charles visited the Somerset levels to meet residents affected by winter flooding. During his visit, Charles remarked that \"There's nothing like a jolly good disaster to get people to start doing something. The tragedy is that nothing happened for so long.\" He pledged a £50,000 donation, provided by the Prince's Countryside Fund, to help families and businesses.\n\nCharles has controversially championed alternative medicine. The Prince's Foundation for Integrated Health attracted opposition from the scientific and medical community over its campaign encouraging general practitioners to offer herbal and other alternative treatments to National Health Service patients, and in May 2006, Charles made a speech at the World Health Assembly in Geneva, urging the integration of conventional and alternative medicine and arguing for homeopathy.\n\nIn April 2008, \"The Times\" published a letter from Edzard Ernst, Professor of Complementary Medicine at the University of Exeter, which asked the Prince's Foundation to recall two guides promoting alternative medicine, saying \"the majority of alternative therapies appear to be clinically ineffective, and many are downright dangerous.\" A speaker for the foundation countered the criticism by stating: \"We entirely reject the accusation that our online publication \"Complementary Healthcare: A Guide\" contains any misleading or inaccurate claims about the benefits of complementary therapies. On the contrary, it treats people as adults and takes a responsible approach by encouraging people to look at reliable sources of information ... so that they can make informed decisions. The foundation does not promote complementary therapies.\" That year, Ernst published a book with Simon Singh, mockingly dedicated to \"HRH the Prince of Wales\" called \"Trick or Treatment: Alternative Medicine on Trial\". The last chapter is highly critical of Charles's advocacy of complementary and alternative treatments.\n\nThe Prince's Duchy Originals produce a variety of complementary medicinal products including a \"Detox Tincture\" that Edzard Ernst has denounced as \"financially exploiting the vulnerable\" and \"outright quackery\". In 2009, the Advertising Standards Authority criticised an email that Duchy Originals had sent out to advertise its Echina-Relief, Hyperi-Lift and Detox Tinctures products saying that it was misleading. The Prince personally wrote at least seven letters to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) shortly before they relaxed the rules governing labelling of such herbal products, a move that has been widely condemned by scientists and medical bodies. In October 2009, it was reported that Charles had personally lobbied the Health Secretary, Andy Burnham, regarding greater provision of alternative treatments in the NHS. In 2016, Charles said in a speech that he used homeopathic veterinary medicines to reduce antibiotic use at his farm.\n\nIn Ernst's book \"More Good Than Harm? The Moral Maze of Complementary and Alternative Medicine\" he and ethicist Kevin Smith call Charles \"foolish and immoral\" and \"conclude that it is not possible to practice alternative medicine ethically\". Ernst further claims that the private secretary of the Prince contacted the vice chancellor of Exeter University to investigate Ernst's complaints against the \"Smallwood Report\" which the Prince had commissioned in 2005. While Ernst was \"found not to be guilty of any wrong-doing, all local support at Exeter stopped, which eventually led to my early retirement.\"\nIn April 2010, following accounting irregularities, a former official at the foundation and his wife were arrested for fraud believed to total £300,000. Four days later, the foundation announced its closure, claiming that it \"has achieved its key objective of promoting the use of integrated health.\" The charity's finance director, accountant George Gray, was convicted of theft totalling £253,000 and sentenced to three years in prison. The Prince's Foundation was re-branded and re-launched later in 2010 as The College of Medicine.\n\nPrince Charles was confirmed at age 16 by Archbishop of Canterbury Michael Ramsey at Easter 1965, in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle. He attends services at various Anglican churches close to Highgrove, and attends the Church of Scotland's Crathie Kirk with the rest of the royal family when staying at Balmoral Castle. In 2000, he was appointed as Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. Charles has visited (amid some secrecy) Orthodox monasteries several times on Mount Athos as well as in Romania. Charles is also patron of the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies at the University of Oxford, and in the 2000s, he inaugurated of the Markfield Institute of Higher Education, which is dedicated to Islamic studies in a plural multicultural context.\n\nSir Laurens van der Post became a friend of Charles in 1977; he was dubbed his \"spiritual guru\" and was godfather to Charles's son, Prince William. From Van der Post, Prince Charles developed a focus on philosophy, especially that of Asian and Middle Eastern nations. He has praised Kabbalistic artworks, and wrote a memorial for Kathleen Raine, the Neoplatonist poet who died in 2003.\n\nCharles expressed his philosophical views in his 2010 book, \"\", which won a Nautilus Book Award. Although it had been rumoured that Charles would vow to be \"Defender of the Faiths\" or \"Defender of Faith\" as king, he stated in 2015 that he would retain the monarch's traditional title of \"Defender of the Faith\", whilst \"ensuring that other people's faiths can also be practised\", which he sees as a duty of the Church of England.\n\nIn 2008, \"The Daily Telegraph\" declared Charles the \"hardest-working member of the royal family.\" He carried out 560 official engagements in 2008, 499 in 2010, and over 600 in 2011.\n\nAs Prince of Wales, Charles undertakes official duties on behalf of the Queen and the Commonwealth realms. He officiates at investitures and attends the funerals of foreign dignitaries. Prince Charles makes regular tours of Wales, fulfilling a week of engagements each summer, and attending important national occasions, such as opening the Senedd. The six trustees of the Royal Collection Trust meet three times a year under his chairmanship. Prince Charles travels abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom. Charles has been regarded as an effective advocate of the country. In 1983, Christopher John Lewis, who had fired a shot with a .22 rifle at the Queen in 1981, attempted to escape a psychiatric hospital in order to assassinate Charles, who was visiting New Zealand with Diana and William. While visiting Australia in January 1994, two shots from a starting pistol were fired at him on Australia Day by David Kang in protest of the treatment of several hundred Cambodian asylum seekers held in detention camps. In 1995, Charles became the first member of the royal family to visit the Republic of Ireland in an official capacity.\n\nIn 2000, Charles revived the tradition of the Prince of Wales having an official harpist, in order to foster Welsh talent at playing the harp, the national instrument of Wales. He and the Duchess of Cornwall also spend one week each year in Scotland, where he is patron of several Scottish organisations. His service to the Canadian Armed Forces permits him to be informed of troop activities, and allows him to visit these troops while in Canada or overseas, taking part in ceremonial occasions. For instance, in 2001 he placed a specially commissioned wreath, made from vegetation taken from French battlefields, at the Canadian Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and in 1981 he became the patron of the Canadian Warplane Heritage Museum. At the funeral of Pope John Paul II in 2005, Charles unintentionally caused controversy when he shook hands with Robert Mugabe, the President of Zimbabwe, who had been seated next to him. Charles's office subsequently released a statement saying: \"The Prince of Wales was caught by surprise and not in a position to avoid shaking Mr Mugabe's hand. The Prince finds the current Zimbabwean regime abhorrent. He has supported the Zimbabwe Defence and Aid Fund, which works with those being oppressed by the regime. The Prince also recently met Pius Ncube, the Archbishop of Bulawayo, an outspoken critic of the government.\"\n\nIn 2010, Charles represented the Queen at the opening ceremony of the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi, India. He attends official events in the United Kingdom in support of Commonwealth countries, such as the Christchurch earthquake memorial service at Westminster Abbey in 2011. From 15 to 17 November 2013, he represented the Queen for the first time at a Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, in Colombo, Sri Lanka.\n\nLetters sent by Prince Charles to government ministers during 2004 and 2005—the so-called black spider memos—presented potential embarrassment following a challenge by \"The Guardian\" newspaper to release the letters under the Freedom of Information Act 2000. In March 2015, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom decided that the Prince's letters must be released. The letters were published by the Cabinet Office on 13 May 2015. Reaction to the memos upon their release was largely supportive of Charles, with little criticism of him. The memos were variously described in the press as \"underwhelming\" and \"harmless\" and that their release had \"backfired on those who seek to belittle him\", with reaction from the public also supportive.\n\nThe Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall made their first joint trip to the Republic of Ireland in May 2015. The trip was called an important step in \"promoting peace and reconciliation\" by the British Embassy. During the trip, Charles shook hands with Sinn Féin and supposed IRA leader Gerry Adams in Galway, which was described by the media as a \"historic handshake\" and a \"significant moment for Anglo-Irish relations\". In the run up to the Prince's visit, two Irish republican dissidents were arrested for planning a bomb attack. Semtex and rockets were found at the Dublin home of suspect Donal O'Coisdealbha, member of a self-styled \"Óglaigh na hÉireann\" organisation, who was later jailed for five and a half years. He was connected to a veteran republican, Seamus McGrane of County Louth, a member of the Real IRA, who was jailed for 11 and a half years. In 2015, it was revealed that Prince Charles had access to confidential UK cabinet papers.\n\nCharles has made frequent visits to Saudi Arabia in order to promote arms exports for companies such as BAE Systems. In 2013, 2014, and 2015, he met with the commander of Saudi Arabia's National Guard Mutaib bin Abdullah. In February 2014, he took part in a traditional sword dance with members of the Saudi royal family at the Janariyah festival in Riyadh. At the same festival, British arms company BAE Systems was honoured by Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz. Charles was criticised by Scottish MP Margaret Ferrier in 2016 over his role in the sale of Typhoon fighter jets to Saudi Arabia. According to Charles's biographer Catherine Mayer, a \"Time\" magazine journalist who claims to have interviewed several sources from Prince Charles's inner circle, he \"doesn't like being used to market weaponry\" in deals with Saudi Arabia and other Arab Gulf states. According to Mayer, Charles has only raised his objections to being used to sell weapons abroad in private.\nCommonwealth heads of government decided at their 2018 meeting, that the Prince of Wales will be the next Head of the Commonwealth after the Queen. The head is chosen and therefore not hereditary.\n\nFrom his youth until 1992, Prince Charles was an avid player of competitive polo. He continued to play informally, including for charity, until 2005. Charles also frequently took part in fox hunting until the sport was banned in the United Kingdom in 2005. By the late 1990s, opposition to the activity was growing when Charles's participation was viewed as a \"political statement\" by those who were opposed to it. The League Against Cruel Sports launched an attack against Charles after he took his sons on the Beaufort Hunt in 1999. At that time, the government was trying to ban hunting with hounds.\n\nCharles has been a keen salmon angler since youth and supports Orri Vigfússon's efforts to protect the North Atlantic salmon. He frequently fishes the River Dee in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, while he claims his most special angling memories are from his time in Vopnafjörður, Iceland. Charles is a supporter of Burnley Football Club.\n\nPrince Charles is president or patron of more than twenty performing arts organisations, which include the Royal College of Music, the Royal Opera, the English Chamber Orchestra, the Philharmonia Orchestra, Welsh National Opera, and the Purcell School. In 2000, he revived the tradition of appointing harpists to the Royal Court, by appointing an Official Harpist to the Prince of Wales. As an undergraduate at Cambridge he played cello, and has sung with the Bach Choir twice.\nCharles founded The Prince's Foundation for Children and The Arts in 2002, to help more children experience the arts first-hand. He is president of the Royal Shakespeare Company and attends performances in Stratford-Upon-Avon, supports fundraising events and attends the company's annual general meeting. He enjoys comedy, and is interested in illusionism, becoming a member of The Magic Circle after passing his audition in 1975 by performing the \"cups and balls\" effect.\n\nCharles is a keen and accomplished watercolourist who has exhibited and sold a number of his works and also published books on the subject. In 2001, 20 lithographs of his watercolour paintings illustrating his country estates were exhibited at the Florence International Biennale of Contemporary Art. Charles was awarded the 2011 Montblanc de la Culture Arts Patronage Award by the Montblanc Cultural Foundation for his support and commitment to the arts, particularly in regard to young people.\nOn 23 April 2016, Charles appeared in a comedy sketch for the Royal Shakespeare Company's \"Shakespeare Live!\" at the Royal Shakespeare Theatre, to commemorate the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare's death in 1616. The event was televised live by the BBC. Charles made a surprise entrance to settle the disputed delivery of Hamlet's celebrated line, \"To be or not to be, that is the question\".\n\nPrince Charles is an author of several books that reflect his own interests. He has also contributed a foreword or preface to books by other writers and has also written, presented and has been featured in documentary films.\n\nSince his birth, Prince Charles has undergone close media attention, which increased as he matured. It has been an ambivalent relationship, largely impacted by his marriages to Diana and Camilla and its aftermath, but also centred on his future conduct as king, such as the 2014 play \"King Charles III\".\n\nDescribed as the \"world's most eligible bachelor\" in the late 1970s, Prince Charles was subsequently overshadowed by Diana. After her death, the media regularly breached Charles's privacy and printed exposés.\n\nIn 2006, the prince filed a court case against the \"Mail on Sunday\", after excerpts of his personal journals were published, revealing his opinions on matters such as the transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong to China in 1997, in which Charles described the Chinese government officials as \"appalling old waxworks\". Mark Bolland, his ex-private secretary, declared in a statement to the High Court that Charles \"would readily embrace the political aspects of any contentious issue he was interested in ... He carried it out in a very considered, thoughtful and researched way. He often referred to himself as a 'dissident' working against the prevailing political consensus.\" Jonathan Dimbleby reported that the prince \"has accumulated a number of certainties about the state of the world and does not relish contradiction.\"\n\nOther people who were formerly connected with the prince have betrayed his confidence. An ex-member of his household handed the press an internal memo in which Charles commented on ambition and opportunity, and which was widely interpreted as blaming meritocracy for creating a combative atmosphere in society. Charles responded: \"In my view, it is just as great an achievement to be a plumber or a bricklayer as it is to be a lawyer or a doctor\".\n\nCharles's anguish was recorded in his private comments to Prince William, caught on a microphone during a press photo-call in 2005 and published in the national press. After a question from the BBC's royal correspondent, Nicholas Witchell, Charles muttered: \"These bloody people. I can't bear that man. I mean, he's so awful, he really is.\"\nIn 2002, Charles, \"so often a target of the press, got his chance to return fire\" when addressing \"scores of editors, publishers and other media executives\" gathered at St Bride's Fleet Street to celebrate 300 years of journalism. Defending public servants from \"the corrosive drip of constant criticism\", he noted that the press had been \"awkward, cantankerous, cynical, bloody-minded, at times intrusive, at times inaccurate and at times deeply unfair and harmful to individuals and to institutions.\" But, he concluded, regarding his own relations with the press, \"from time to time we are probably both a bit hard on each other, exaggerating the downsides and ignoring the good points in each.\"\n\nThe Prince of Wales has occasionally appeared on television. In 1984, he read his children's book \"The Old Man of Lochnagar\" for the BBC's \"Jackanory\" series. The UK soap opera \"Coronation Street\" featured an appearance by Charles during the show's 40th anniversary in 2000, as did the New Zealand young adult cartoon series \"bro'Town\" (2005), after he attended a performance by the show's creators during a tour of the country.\nCharles was interviewed with Princes William and Harry by Ant & Dec to mark the 30th anniversary of The Prince's Trust in 2006 and in 2016 was interviewed by them again along with his sons and the Duchess of Cornwall to mark the 40th anniversary.\n\nHis saving of the Scottish stately home Dumfries House was the subject of Alan Titchmarsh's documentary \"Royal Restoration\", which aired on TV in May 2012. Also in May 2012, Charles tried his hand at being a weather presenter for the BBC, reporting the forecast for Scotland as part of their annual week at Holyrood Palace alongside Christopher Blanchett. He injected humour in his report, asking, \"Who the hell wrote this script?\" as references were made to royal residences.\nIn December 2015, \"Channel 4 News\" revealed that interviews with Charles were subject to a contract that restricts questions to those previously approved, and gives his staff oversight of editing and the right to \"remove the contribution in its entirety from the programme\". \"Channel 4 News\" decided not to proceed with an interview on this basis, which some journalists believed would put them at risk of breaching the Ofcom Broadcasting Code on editorial independence and transparency.\n\nClarence House in London is Charles's official residence. Previously, he had an apartment at St James's Palace. Charles also has two private homes: Highgrove House in Gloucestershire and Birkhall near Balmoral Castle. Both Clarence House and Birkhall were previously the residences of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother. His primary source of income is generated from the Duchy of Cornwall, which owns 133,658 acres of land (around 54,090 hectares), including farming, residential, and commercial properties, as well as an investment portfolio. Highgrove is owned by the Duchy of Cornwall, having been purchased for his use in 1980, and which Prince Charles rents for £336,000 per annum. The Public Accounts Committee published its 25th report into the Duchy of Cornwall accounts in November 2013 noting that the duchy performed well in 2012–13, increasing its total income and producing an overall surplus of £19.1 million.\n\nIn 2007, the prince purchased a 192-acre property (150 acres of grazing and parkland, and 40 acres of woodland) in Carmarthenshire, and applied for permission to convert the farm into a Welsh home for him and the Duchess of Cornwall, to be rented out as holiday flats when the couple is not in residence. A neighbouring family said the proposals flouted local planning regulations, and the application was put on hold temporarily while a report was drafted on how the alterations would affect the local bat population. Charles and Camilla first stayed at the new property, called Llwynywermod, in June 2008.\n\nIn 2016, it was reported that his estates receive £100,000 a year in European Union agricultural subsidies. Starting in 1993, the Prince of Wales has paid tax voluntarily under the Memorandum of Understanding on Royal Taxation, updated 2013. In December 2012, Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs were asked to investigate alleged tax avoidance by the Duchy of Cornwall. The Duchy of Cornwall is named in the Paradise Papers, a set of confidential electronic documents relating to offshore investment that were leaked to the German newspaper \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\". The papers show that the Duchy invested in a Bermuda-based carbon credits trading company run by one of Charles's Cambridge contemporaries. The investment was kept secret but there is no suggestion that Charles or the estate avoided UK tax.\n\nThe Prince's full title is: \"His Royal Highness Prince Charles Philip Arthur George, Prince of Wales, KG, KT, GCB, OM, AK, QSO, PC, ADC, Earl of Chester, Duke of Cornwall, Duke of Rothesay, Earl of Carrick, Baron of Renfrew, Lord of the Isles and Prince and Great Steward of Scotland\".\n\nCharles has held titles throughout his life: the grandson of the monarch, the son of the monarch and in his own right. He has been a British prince since birth and was created Prince of Wales in 1958. There has been speculation as to what regnal name the prince would choose upon his succession to the throne. If he uses his first name, he would be known as \"Charles III\". However, it was reported in 2005 that Charles has suggested he may choose to reign as \"George VII\" in honour of his maternal grandfather, and to avoid association with the Stuart kings Charles I (who was beheaded) and Charles II (who was known for his promiscuous lifestyle), as well as to be sensitive to the memory of Bonnie Prince Charlie, who was called \"Charles III\" by his supporters. Charles's office responded that \"no decision has been made\".\n\nCharles has held substantive ranks in the armed forces of a number of countries since he was made a flight lieutenant in the Royal Air Force in 1972. Charles's first honorary appointment in the armed forces was as Colonel-in-Chief of the Royal Regiment of Wales in 1969; since then, the prince has also been installed as Colonel-in-Chief, Colonel, Honorary Air Commodore, Air Commodore-in-Chief, Deputy Colonel-in-Chief, Royal Honorary Colonel, Royal Colonel, and Honorary Commodore of at least 32 military formations throughout the Commonwealth, including the Royal Gurkha Rifles, which is the only foreign regiment in the British army. Since 2009, Charles holds the second-highest ranks in all three branches of the Canadian Forces and, on 16 June 2012, the Queen awarded the Prince of Wales honorary five-star rank in all three branches of the British Armed Forces, \"to acknowledge his support in her role as Commander-in-Chief\", installing him as Admiral of the Fleet, Field Marshal and Marshal of the Royal Air Force.\n\nHe has been inducted into seven orders and received eight decorations from the Commonwealth realms, and has been the recipient of 20 different honours from foreign states, as well as nine honorary degrees from universities in the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nThe banners used by the prince vary depending upon location. His Personal Standard is the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom differenced as in his arms with a label of three points Argent, and the escutcheon of the arms of the Principality of Wales in the centre. It is used outside Wales, Scotland, Cornwall, and Canada, and throughout the entire United Kingdom when the prince is acting in an official capacity associated with the UK Armed Forces.\n\nThe personal flag for use in Wales is based upon the Royal Badge of Wales (the historic arms of the Kingdom of Gwynedd), which consist of four quadrants, the first and fourth with a red lion on a gold field, and the second and third with a gold lion on a red field. Superimposed is an escutcheon Vert bearing the single-arched coronet of the Prince of Wales.\n\nIn Scotland the personal banner used since 1974 is based upon three ancient Scottish titles: Duke of Rothesay (heir apparent to the King of Scots), High Steward of Scotland and Lord of the Isles. The flag is divided into four quadrants like the arms of the Chief of Clan Stewart of Appin; the first and fourth quadrants comprise a gold field with a blue and silver checkered band in the centre; the second and third quadrants display a black galley on a silver field. The arms are differenced from those of Appin by the addition of an inescutcheon bearing the tressured lion rampant of Scotland; defaced by a plain label of three points Azure to indicate the heir apparent.\n\nIn Cornwall, the banner is the arms of the Duke of Cornwall: \"Sable fifteen bezants Or\", that is, a black field bearing fifteen gold coins.\n\nIn 2011, the Canadian Heraldic Authority introduced a personal heraldic banner for the Prince of Wales for use in Canada, consisting of the shield of the Arms of Canada defaced with both a blue roundel of the Prince of Wales's feathers surrounded by a wreath of gold maple leaves, and a white label of three points.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3514843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3514843", "title": "Clarence F. Stephens", "text": "Clarence F. Stephens\n\nClarence Francis Stephens (July 24, 1917 – March 5, 2018) was the ninth African American to receive a Ph.D. in mathematics. He is credited with inspiring students and faculty at SUNY Potsdam to form the most successful United States undergraduate mathematics degree programs in the past century.\n\nOne of six children, he was orphaned at the age of eight. For his early education, he attended Harbison Agricultural and Industrial Institute, a boarding school for African-Americans in Irmo, South Carolina under Dean R. W. Bouleware and later President Rev John G. Porter.\n\nStephens graduated from Johnson C. Smith University in 1938 with a B.S. degree in mathematics. He received his M.S. (1939) and his Ph.D. (1944) from the University of Michigan. He was the 9th African American to receive a Ph.D in mathematics––for a thesis on \"Non-Linear Difference Equations Analytic in a Parameter\" under James Nyswander.\n\nAfter serving in the U.S. Navy (1942–1946) as a Teaching Specialist, Dr. Stephens joined the mathematics faculty of Prairie View A&M University. The next year (1947) he was invited to join the mathematics faculty at Morgan State University.\n\nAs a Mathematics Association of America (MAA) biography explains, “Dr. Stephens' focus was on being a research mathematician, so he accepted the position in part because he would be near a research library at Johns Hopkins University. While at Morgan State University, Dr. Stephens became appalled at what a poor job was being done in general to teach and inspire students to learn mathematics. He changed his focus from being a researcher to achieving excellence, with desirable results, in teaching mathematics.\n\nIn 1953, he received a one-year Ford Fellowship to study at Princeton University's Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton.\n\nDr. Stephens remained at Morgan State until 1962, at which time he accepted an appointment as professor of mathematics at SUNY Geneseo. In 1969 he left Geneseo to join the mathematics faculty at SUNY Potsdam, where he served as chair of the mathematics department until his retirement in 1987.\n\nThe MAA biography reports that during Dr. Stephens’ tenure at SUNY Potsdam \"the department became nationally known as a model of teaching excellence in mathematics. For several of these years the program was among the top producers of mathematics majors in the country. The teaching techniques that Professor Stephens introduced at Potsdam, and earlier at Morgan State, have been adopted by many mathematics departments across the country. They have been described in publications by the MAA, and recently in a book, \"Math Education At Its Best: The Potsdam Model,\" by Datta (Center for Teaching/Learning of Mathematics, 1993).\" He turned 100 in July 2017 and died in March 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "23491260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23491260", "title": "Clarke International University", "text": "Clarke International University\n\nClarke International University (CIU) , formerly International Health Sciences University, is a private non-residential university in Uganda.\n\nCIU has its main campus at 4686 St. Barnabas Road, Namuwongo, a southeastern section of Kampala, Uganda's capital and largest city. IHSU's campus is located on the top floor of the building that houses International Hospital Kampala. The road distance from the central business district of the city to Namuwongo is approximately . The coordinates of the university campus are:0°18'19.0\"N, 32°36'38.0\"E\n(Latitude:0.305278; Longitude:32.610556). The university's second campus is located in the upscale neighborhood of Lubowa, approximately , by road, south of Kampala's central business district, along the Kampala-Entebbe Road.\n\nClarke International University is a member of the Clarke Group of Companies (Clarke Group), a conglomerate of companies in agribusiness, healthcare, education, hospitality, leisure and philanthropy. The companies in the group are majority owned by physician, politician, entrepreneur and philanthropist Dr Ian Clarke.\nThe university incorporated the Uganda Health Management Institute (UHMI), and the International Hospital School of Nursing (IHSON) as the two founding faculties of the university. In December 2010, the university marked its maiden graduation ceremony, held at the university campus at Namuwongo, a suburb of Kampala. In March 2014, the university held its fourth graduation ceremony, where 229 students graduated, of whom 111 (48%) were male and 118 (52%) were female.\n\nThe unicversity was established as IHSU, and admitted the first class of students in August 2008. The Chancellor of the University is Justice Julia Sebutinde of the International Criminal Court. The Vice Chancellor is Dr. Nanyonga Rose Clarke. The Chairman of the University Council is Dr. Moses Galukande. Dr. Ian Clarke, the founder of the university, was a member of the University Council until he relinquished that responsibility in 2010. The current members of the Council are listed at the university's webpage.\n\n, IHSU had one institute and three functional schools:\n\nCourses can be pursued (a) full-time (b) part-time (c) on-campus or (d) via remote e-learning. The following academic courses are offered at the university:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5846314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5846314", "title": "Cuban National Center for Sex Education", "text": "Cuban National Center for Sex Education\n\nThe National Center for Sex Education (, CENESEX) is a government-funded body in Cuba. The center is best known for advocating tolerance of LGBT issues on the island. CENESEX stresses acceptance of sexual diversity and has attracted international attention in recent years for its campaigns for the rights of transgender persons, including the recognition of an individual’s gender identity, regardless of birth sex, and provision of state-funded sexual reassignment surgery. The head of the center is Mariela Castro, daughter of Cuban leader Raúl Castro (brother of former leader Fidel Castro).\n\nCENESEX’s mission is to contribute to “the development of a culture of sexuality that is full, pleasurable and responsible, as well as to promote the full exercise of sexual rights.” The center plays a primary role in education concerning contraception and AIDS.\n\nThe center pushed for passage of a law that would provide transgender persons with free sex reassignment surgery and hormone replacement therapy in addition to granting them new legal identification documents with their changed gender. A draft bill was presented to the Cuban parliament in 2005. Prior to being approved, it was suggested that the bill would make Cuba the most liberal nation in Latin America on gender issues. The measure passed in June 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52883744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52883744", "title": "Darwin for Beginners", "text": "Darwin for Beginners\n\nDarwin for Beginners, republished as Introducing Darwin, is a 1982 graphic study guide to Charles Darwin and Evolution written by Dr. Jonathan Miller and illustrated by Borin Van Loon. The volume, according to the publisher's website, \"unravels Darwin’s life and his contribution to biology, and traces the path from his scientific predecessors to the later modifications that his own evolutionary theories required.\"\n\nThis volume was originally published in the UK by Writers and Readers Publishing Cooperative in 1982, following the collapse of this organisation in 1984, in part due to a disagreement over the selling off of the US rights to this title, the book has subsequently been republished in the US by Pantheon Books and in the UK by Icon Books.\n\nWork on the book proved difficult at times, according to illustrator Borin Van Loon, as the schedule of the author Jonathan Miller was, \"always taken up with \"lighting Rigoletto\" at the Royal Opera House or making a television series on the human body.\n\nSelected editions:\n\nRelated volumes in the \"For Beginners...\" series:\n\nRelated volumes in the \"Introducing...\" series:\n\nProfessor David B. Richman, writing in \"Reports of the National Center for Science Education\", described the book as, \"a rather charming graphic account of Darwin's ideas.\" Professor Richard C. Lewontin, writing in \"New York Review of Books\", describes the book as, \"a superb introduction to a very tricky subject.\" \"Los Angeles Times\" reviewer Charles Solomon, however, dismisses it as, \"a competent but by no means extraordinary biography.\"\n\nProfessor Jon Seger, writing in \"New Scientist\", describes the style of author Jonathan Miller, who he point out is primarily known as a TV physician, as, \"that of a television documentary.\" While Miller's text is, according to Lewontin, \"historically correct, scientifically impeccable,\" with, \"all the emphasis in the right place.\"\n\nVan Loon's illustrations are, according to Lewontin, \"a constant reminder not to take the life of the mind more seriously than it deserves.\" Seger describes, \"the stream of rapidly changing images,\" as, \"full of action,\" although at times, \"pointlessly vulgar.\"\n\nMiller and Van Loon have, concludes Seger, \"not produced a work of scholarship,\" but have, \"brought to life an important chapter of scientific history.\"\n"}
{"id": "12533618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12533618", "title": "Davina Kotulski", "text": "Davina Kotulski\n\nDavina Kotulski, Ph.D., born on January 22, 1970, is a clinical psychologist, public speaker, life coach, writer and notable, long-time same-sex marriage activist and leader in the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Equal Rights movement. Kotulski began publicly advocating for same-sex marriage in 1999. Kotulski is the author of \"Why You Should give a Damn About Gay Marriage\" and \"Love Warriors: The Rise of the Marriage Equality Movement and Why it Will Prevail\".\n\nKotulski was born in Oregon. She earned her Bachelor of Science in Psychology at Portland State University. In 1991 Kotulski re-located to the San Francisco Bay Area in California to attend graduate school. She received her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the California School of Professional Psychology at Alliant University in 1996.\n\nKotulski worked as a psychologist for the Bureau of Prisons at a women's federal prison from 1996-2008. Her novel Behind Barbed Eyes is based on her work at the prison.\n\nKotulski opened a private therapy practice in Berkeley, California and relocated her practice to Los Angeles in 2012 where she currently resides. Kotulski now leads empowerment workshops helping people to live their authentic lives. She continues to work as a life coach and psychologist.\n\nKotulski is a member of the Advisory Board of Marriage Equality USA and is a highly sought after speaker on LGBTQ equality and diversity. She teaches mental health and health care professionals how to work competently with LGBTQ people and their families.\n\nIn 1996, Kotulski met Molly McKay. In 1999, the couple became involved in working for civil marriage for LGBTIQ couples. That same year, Kotulski led a panel discussion at the California Psychological Association to discuss organizing against the Knight Initiative. She met Tom Henning that same year and joined Californians for Same-Sex Marriage (CASSM), an organization committed to pro-actively putting same-sex marriage on the ballot in California.\n\nBeginning in February 2001, Kotulski and her formerly \"unlawfully wedded\" wife, Molly McKay, began going to City Halls in the San Francisco Bay Area asking for marriage licenses and organizing annual \"Marriage License Counter\" protests to draw attention to the hundreds of rights same-sex couples are denied.\n\nKotulski and McKay joined Marriage Equality USA and with L.J. Carusone and others, Kotulski and McKay, founded Marriage Equality California (MECA). They began organizing events such as annual Tax Day Protests held on April 15 to point out the inequities same-sex couples face with regard to taxation and representation, and launched an effort to legalize same-sex marriage in California. Kotulski served on the California Freedom to Marry's Outreach Committee. (The California Freedom to Marry Coalition morphed into the Equality Alliance and is now known as the Let California Ring Campaign under the auspices of Equality California's Equality California Institute.\n\nTo recognize the life of Diane Whipple, to honor her survivor Sharon Smith, and to point out the injustices same-sex survivors face, Kotulski helped organize the Diane Whipple Anniversary march on January 26, 2002.\n\nOn October 11, 2003 she organized Come Out For Equality bringing together straight allies, clergy like Reverend Cecil Williams and San Francisco Poet Laureate, Janice Mirikitani, LGBT service members and veterans, binational couples, and children of same sex parents to elevate support for rights for LGBT people and address the perceived injustices of the Don't ask, don't tell Policy and the Defense of Marriage Act and to raise awareness for the Uniting American Families Act formerly known as the Permanent Partners Immigration Act.\n\nOn February 12, 2004, Kotulski and McKay arrived at San Francisco City Hall for their fourth annual marriage license counter action. That's when they learned that Mayor Gavin Newsom had changed the marriage license application to applicant 1 and applicant 2 and had allowed Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon to marry. He also told the County Clerk to begin allowing same-sex couples to marry, in what would become known as San Francisco's 2004 Winter of Love. As soon as they finished their rally, Kotulski and McKay became the 17th couple to wed at San Francisco's City Hall, married by Assemblymember Mark Leno. They honeymooned at the Marriage Equality Valentine's Day Rally, organized by Kotulski and McKay with other same-sex marriage leaders – the rally featured comedian Margaret Cho. They and several other newlyweds then planned a Northern California Marriage Equality Visibility and Educational Bus Tour.\n\nKotulski's first book on marriage equality \"Why You Should Give a Damn About Gay Marriage\" was released in March 2004.\n\nIn August 2004 the California Supreme Court invalidated their marriage, along with those of 4,000 other couples. Kotulski's response was to organize a Marriage Equality Caravan with the help of Molly McKay, Belinda Ryan, Wendy Daw, Jacqueline Frank, and Bev Senkowski. On October 4, 2004, Kotulski and 43 other activists loaded a bus and traveled across the country stopping in 13 states and hosting same-sex marriage forums and panels at universities and churches. The \"Marriage Equality Express\" culminated in the first national same-sex marriage rally in Washington, DC on October 11, 2004, National Coming Out Day. The rally featured the Hawaii Marriage Case Plaintiff Genora Dancel; Beth Robinson, Attorney in the Vermont Freedom to Marry case; Reverend Jimmy Creech, a Methodist minister who was defrocked for marrying same-sex couples and leader of Soulforce; Dr. Sylvia Rhue, National Black Justice Coalition; Robin Tyler, organizer for gay rights marches in Washington, DC and founder of StopDr..Laura.com; Kathy Kelly, Marriage Equality Georgia; Musicians Tuck and Patti, who sang what Davina, Molly and the husband and wife duo agree is the theme song to the Marriage Equality Movement-\"Love Warriors\"; politicians Mark Leno and Eleanor Holmes Norton. Marriage Equality Caravaners also told their stories.\n\nCaravan Riders remember their \"Cross Country Journey for Equality\" 14 years later.\n\nIn November 2004, she became the Deputy Director of Marriage Equality USA and co-organized a LIFT THE BAN rally in Oakland, CA with the Service Members Legal Defense Network, Equality California, and Bay Area American Two Spirits. In June 2005 she became the Executive Director of Marriage Equality USA, replacing Connie Ress. After ending her term as E.D. Kotulski joined the Advisory Board of Marriage Equality USA. Kotulski has continued to participate in same-sex marriage actions, including the marriage counter actions. Kotulski served as the Executive Director of Marriage Equality USA 2005-2007.\n\nIn 2006, she debated Maggie Gallagher the Director of the right wing, anti-gay, National Organization of Marriage, at Brown University. The Southern Poverty Law Centerincluded NOM on its Winter 2010 list of \"anti-gay groups\" that \"have continued to pump out demonizing propaganda aimed at homosexuals.\n\nIn 2010, her book \"Love Warriors: The Rise of the Marriage Equality Movement and Why It Will\" prevail was published.\n\nKotulski released a coming out program for LGBTQ people and their families \"\"How to Come Out of the Closet and Into Your Power\"www.comeoutintoyourpower.com in 2011.\" She continues to help LGBTQ people come out of the closet and end internalized homophobia.\n\nIn 2008, twelve years into their relationship Kotulski and McKay were legally married after the California Supreme Court struck down the state ban on gay marriage in their ruling on \"In re Marriage Cases\". Kotulski and McKay have appeared together on CNN, Newsweek, Time Magazine and USA Today.\n\nKotulski and McKay were active in the fight against California Proposition 8.They played a key role in the March 4th rally against Prop 8 and Kotulski blogged about the Perry V. Schwarzenegger lawsuit against Prop 8 for Bilerico.\n\nIn June 2011, Davina Kotulski and Molly McKay separated and began divorce proceedings. Kotulski has since spoken out about the right of same sex couples to divorce as a part of the fight for same-sex marriage.\n\nKotulski is featured in three documentaries: \"Freedom to Marry\" (shown in 7 countries and featured on PBS), \"Pursuit of Equality\", and \"I Will, I Do, We Did\" following the San Francisco marriages that took place in 2004, as well as several television shows including \"American Quest\", documenting the National \"Marriage Equality Express\", and a Queer Nation TV special in New Zealand.\n\nShe also starred in Sarah Silverman's Facebook production \"Please Understand Me\" with comedians, Rory Scovel and Natalie Palimades.IMDB\n\nShe has appeared on the Convergence Healing Podcast with Peter Bedard, Get Balanced with Dr. Marissa Pei, the I AM Symposium with The Practical Shaman, Renee Baribeau, Seducing Your Muse, on The Practical Shaman Podcast, and Balanced Living for Busy Professionals with Diane Randall.\n\n\nIn 2009 Kotulski and McKay were Community Grand Marshals of the San Francisco, CA PRIDE Parade\n\nIn 2006, Kotulski and McKay received the Michael Switzer Leadership Award from New Leaf Counseling Center in San Francisco, CA.\n\nIn 2004, Kotulski received the \"Saints Alive\" Award from the San Francisco Metropolitan Community Church and was \"sainted\" by the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence for her activism and advocacy on behalf of marriage for all couples.\n\nIn 2003, Kotulski and McKay received the \"Defenders of Love\" Award from the East Bay Pride Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "22406893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22406893", "title": "Deborah Digges", "text": "Deborah Digges\n\nDeborah Digges (February 6, 1950 – April 10, 2009) was an American poet and teacher.\n\nShe was born Deborah Leah Sugarbaker in Jefferson City, Missouri, on February 6, 1950. Her father was a physician and her mother was a nurse; she was the sixth child in a family of ten children.\n\nDigges received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of California, Riverside in 1976, a Masters from the University of Missouri in 1982, and her Master of Fine Arts in Poetry from the Iowa Writers Workshop in 1984. In the course of her academic career, she taught in the writing and English faculties of New York University, Boston University, Columbia University, and Tufts University.\n\nShe authored four books of poetry and two memoirs. Her first book of poems, \"Vesper Sparrows\", won the Delmore Schwartz Memorial Prize for Poetry. In 1997 Digges was awarded the Kingsley Tufts Poetry Award, the largest prize for a single work of poetry, for her book \"Rough Music\". She was also the winner of two Pushcart Prizes. Digges translated the poems of the Cuban poet Maria Elena Cruz Varela. A book of poetry, \"The Wind Blows Through the Doors of My Heart: Poems\", was published by Knopf in 2010.\nDigges died April 10, 2009, in Amherst, Massachusetts. Her death was reported as a suicide following her fatal fall from the top of the bleachers of Warren McGuirk Alumni Stadium at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.\n\nPoetry\n\nMemoirs\n\nTranslation\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54651092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54651092", "title": "Deborah Howard", "text": "Deborah Howard\n\nDeborah Janet Howard, (born 26 February 1946) is a British art historian and academic, who specialises in architecture. From 2001 to 2013, she was Professor of Architectural History at the University of Cambridge; she is now Professor Emerita. She previously taught and/or researched at Clare Hall, Cambridge, University College London, the University of Edinburgh and the Courtauld Institute of Art.\n"}
{"id": "430890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430890", "title": "Educational research", "text": "Educational research\n\nEducational research refers to the systematic collection and analysis of data related to the field of education. Research may involve a variety of methods. Research may involve various aspects of education including student learning, teaching methods, teacher training, and classroom dynamics.\n\nEducational researchers generally agree that research should be rigorous and systematic. However, there is less agreement about specific standards, criteria and research procedures. Educational researchers may draw upon a variety of disciplines. These disciplines include psychology, sociology, anthropology, and philosophy. Methods may be drawn from a range of disciplines. Conclusions drawn from an individual research study may be limited by the characteristics of the participants who were studied and the conditions under which the study was conducted.\n\nThere is no single \"correct\" way of conducting research in the field of education. \n\nGary Anderson outlined ten aspects of educational research:\n\n\nThere are different approaches to educational research. One is a basic approach. This approach is also referred to as an academic research approach. Another approach is applied research or a contract research approach. These approaches have different purposes which influence the nature of the respective research.\n\nBasic, or academic research focuses on the search for truth or the development of educational theory. Researchers with this background \"design studies that can test, refine, modify, or develop theories\". Generally, these researchers are affiliated with an academic institution and are performing this research as part of their graduate or doctoral work.\n\nThe pursuit of information that can be directly applied to practice is aptly known as applied or contractual research. Researchers in this field are trying to find solutions to existing educational problems. The approach is much more utilitarian as it strives to find information that will directly influence practice. Applied researchers are commissioned by a sponsor and are responsible for addressing the needs presented by this employer. The goal of this research is \"to determine the applicability of educational theory and principles by testing hypotheses within specific settings\".\n\nThe following are several defining characteristics that were written by Gary Anderson to compare basic (academic) and applied (contract) research.\n\nThe basis for educational research is the scientific method. The scientific method uses directed questions and manipulation of variables to systematically find information about the teaching and learning process. In this scenario questions are answered by the analysis of data that is collected specifically for the purpose of answering these questions. Hypotheses are written and subsequently proved or disproved by data which leads to the creation of new hypotheses. The two main types of data that are used under this method are qualitative and quantitative.\n\nQualitative research uses the data which is descriptive in nature. Tools that educational researchers use in collecting qualitative data include: observations, conducting interviews, conducting document analysis, and analyzing participant products such as journals, diaries, images or blogs.\n\n\nQuantitative research uses data that is numerical and is based on the assumption that the numbers will describe a single reality. Statistics are often applied to find relationships between variables.\n\n\nThere also exists a new school of thought that these derivatives of the scientific method are far too reductionistic in nature. Since educational research includes other disciplines such as psychology, sociology, anthropology, science, and philosophy and refers to work done in a wide variety of contexts it is proposed that researchers should use \"multiple research approaches and theoretical constructs.\" This could mean using a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods as well as common methodology from the fields mentioned above. In social research this phenomenon is referred to as triangulation (social science). This idea is well summarized by the work of Barrow in his text An introduction to philosophy of education:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37240413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37240413", "title": "Emmanuel Nicholas", "text": "Emmanuel Nicholas\n\nEmmanuel Nicholas is a Sri Lankan Tamil, who was born in Sri Lanka on 2 January 1939.\n\nNicholas, a De La Salle Christian Brother, was 27 when he left Sri Lanka for Pakistan, to teach mathematics and science at La Salle High School Multan. He taught there until 1968. His students included Yousuf Raza Gillani who become prime minister of Pakistan in March 2008.\n\nAs a De La Salle Brother, he considers his mission in life is to educate the poor in the slums and rural outbacks. When St. Vincent’s school, in Mian Channu on the Multan-Lahore road, wanted a principal in 1968, Nicholas volunteered for the job. Mian Channu was a Christian village of about 600 families and the school was built for their children.\n\nNicholas also considered former President Zia ul-Haq to be a close friend.\n\nHe also attended Fordham University in New York City, where he earned a master's degree in counseling.\n\nIn 1979, he left Pakistan to return to his native Sri Lanka. \nThe President of Pakistan conferred the civil award of Tamgha-e-Imtiaz (Medal of Pakistan) on Bro. Emmanuel in recognition of his outstanding and meritorious services for the education sector in Pakistan. He received the award at the High Commission of Pakistan, Colombo, on 23 March 2012.\n\nBack in Sri Lanka, he is working to improve the quality of life in a shantytown on the outskirts of Colombo, particularly to reduce maternal and infant deaths. The De La Salle Brothers care for 450 children from ages 3 to 5 in preschool programs, 135 young women in training for jobs like sewing and catering, and 175 young men learning trades like agriculture and auto mechanics. Raising funds to carry out these programs is not easy. They get little financial help from the government, but people in business and international foundations do support . He needs $8,000 each month to continue his work.\n"}
{"id": "2228692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2228692", "title": "European Foundation for Management Development", "text": "European Foundation for Management Development\n\nThe European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) is an international not-for-profit association, based in Brussels, Belgium. Europe's largest network association in the field of management development, it has over 890 member organizations from academia, business, public service and consultancy in 88 countries (as of September 2017). EFMD provides a forum for networking in management development.\n\nEFMD operates the EFMD Quality Improvement System (EQUIS), which is one of the leading international systems of quality assessment, improvement, and accreditation of higher education institutions in management and business administration. It is comparable to its American equivalent Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business and provides a forum for information, research, networking and debate on innovation and best practice in management development.\n\nThe foundation also runs the EPAS accreditation system for programmes as well as the EFMD Deans Across Frontiers development programme (EDAF) and the Business School Impact System (BSIS). \n\nWhile the EQUIS accreditation process, which is valid for an entire school (or faculty), is the main type of accreditation EFMD offers, there are a variety of other accreditations available. With EPAS it is possible for business schools to have certain degree programs accredited rather than the entire school. This variant somewhat resembles the AMBA (Association of MBAs) accreditation, as the London-based Association accredits the school's entire portfolio of MBA programs, but does not accredit the entire business school. EFMD also offers an accreditation for online courses (EOCCS) and for corporate learning (CLIP).\n\nIn business and management education, acquiring multiple accreditation by EQUIS, AACSB and AMBA is often considered the \"gold standard\" because a business school must go to through a rigorous certification process by each of the three accreditation bodies. Schools that acquire all three are often referred to as having a Triple accreditation or Triple Crown accreditation.\n\nEFMD is the European partner in the China Europe International Business School (CEIBS), a joint venture with Shanghai Jiaotong University established as the first international business school with autonomous status in 1994 under an agreement between the European Commission and the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation. \nEFMD is also founding partner of the Global Foundation for Management Education (GFME), which is a joint venture with the US-based Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International). EFMD organizes conferences and seminars around the world for management development industry and published the Global Focus magazine.\n\nIn 2009, EFMD received an EU grant worth €2.2m for a project that aims to improve the efficiency of Cuban companies by providing training to senior managers. This project, called Consolidating and Strengthening Cuban Managerial Capabilities, is to be implemented under the leadership of EFMD together with ESADE, a business school in Barcelona, and the Cuban Ministry of Higher Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "56538872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56538872", "title": "Heinrich Panofka", "text": "Heinrich Panofka\n\nHeinrich Panofka (3 October 1807 – 18 November 1887) was a German violinist, voice teacher, writer on music and composer.\n\nPanofka was born in Breslau (present-day Wrocław) in 1807. As a child, he made rapid progress on the violin, and first performed in public aged ten. In 1824 he went to Breslau University to study law, according to the wishes of his father; afterward, following his own wishes, he went to Vienna where he was a student of the violinist Joseph Mayseder.\n\nIn 1827 he performed successfully in Vienna and tried to follow up his success by traveling to Munich and Berlin. On the death of his father in 1831 he received his inheritance. Although in the following year he was persuaded by pianist Wenzeslaus Hauck to go on a concert tour through Germany, he gave up touring in 1833.\n\nIn 1834 Panofka settled in Paris; here he met the singing teacher Marco Bordogni, and other singers including Giovanni Battista Rubini, Luigi Lablache and Domenico Donzelli. He became interested in the training of the voice, and with Bordogni he founded in 1842 an \"Académie de chant\".\n\nHe moved to London in 1844, and in 1847 was engaged by Benjamin Lumley as one of his assistants at Her Majesty's Theatre. He became known as a teacher and published \"A Practical Singing Tutor\" and other vocal studies. He returned to Paris in 1852; about 1855 he published \"L'art de chanter\". It was translated into Italian and German, and was much discussed before it gained acceptance from musical institutes.\n\nFrom 1866 Panofka lived in Florence; he died in 1887.\n\nOther works by Panofka include compositions for violin and piano, and for violin and orchestra. He translated Pierre Baillot's \"L'art du violon\" into German. Interested in the musical issues of the day, he contributed to Robert Schumann's magazine \"Neue Zeitschrift für Musik\".\n"}
{"id": "5788461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5788461", "title": "History of science policy", "text": "History of science policy\n\nThrough history, the systems of economic support for scientists and their work have been important determinants of the character and pace of scientific research. The ancient foundations of the sciences were driven by practical and religious concerns and or the pursuit of philosophy more generally. From the Middle Ages until the Age of Enlightenment, scholars sought various forms of noble and religious patronage or funded their own work through medical practice. In the 18th and 19th centuries, many disciplines began to professionalize, and both government-sponsored \"prizes\" and the first research professorships at universities drove scientific investigation. In the 20th century, a variety of sources, including government organizations, military funding, patent profits, corporate sponsorship, and private philanthropies, have shaped scientific research.\n\nMost early advances in mathematics, astronomy and engineering were byproducts of more immediate and practical goals. Surveying and accounting needs drove ancient Egyptian, Babylonian, Chinese, and Indian mathematics, while calendars created for religious and agricultural purposes drove early astronomy.\n\nModern science owes much of its heritage to ancient Greek philosophers; influential work in astronomy, mechanics, geometry, medicine, and natural history was part of the general pursuit of philosophy. Architectural knowledge, especially in ancient Greece and Rome, also contributed to the development of mathematics, though the extent of the connection between architectural knowledge and more abstract mathematics and mechanics is unclear.\n\nState policy has influenced the funding of public works and science for thousands of years, dating at least from the time of the Mohists, who inspired the study of logic during the period of the Hundred Schools of Thought, and the study of defensive fortifications during the Warring States period in China. General levies of labor and grain were collected to fund great public works in China, including the accumulation of grain for distribution in times of famine, for the building of levees to control flooding by the great rivers of China, for the building of canals and locks to connect rivers of China, some of which flowed in opposite directions to each other, and for the building of bridges across these rivers. These projects required a civil service, the scholars, some of whom demonstrated great mastery of hydraulics.\n\nH. Floris Cohen's historiography of the scientific revolution (\"How Modern Science Came into the World\") credits the Umayyad caliphates and especially the Abbasid caliphates support for the translation movement from the Greek, Persian, and Syriac literature to Arabic. These translations were undertaken by the library of the House of Wisdom in Bagdhad. Al-Kindi, Al-Battani, Ibn Sahl and Ibn al-Haytham flourished under the liberal policies of these caliphates.\n\nScience in the Islamic world during the Middle Ages followed various models, and modes of funding varied based primarily on scholars. It was extensive patronage and strong intellectual policies implemented by specific rulers that allowed scientific knowledge to develop in many areas. The most prominent example of this is with the Translation Movement of the ninth century that was facilitated by early Abbasid Caliphs. Other wealthy patrons also supported this movement and accelerated the process of acquiring, translating and interpreting ancient works of philosophy and science. Funding for translation was ongoing throughout the reign of certain caliphs, and it turned out that certain scholars became experts in the works they translated and in turn received further support for continuing to develop certain sciences. As these sciences received wider attention from the elite, more scholars were invited and funded to study particular sciences. Examples of translators and scholars who benefited from this type of support were al-Khawarizmi, Hunayn Ibn Ishaq and the Banu Musa. Patronage was primarily allocated to practical sciences which would be beneficial to the society at the time. Funding was reserved for those who were well versed in certain disciplines, and was not given based on religious affiliation. For this reason we find Jewish, Christian and mixed Muslim scholars working in Baghdad and other locations, often with one another.\n\nA notable feature of many scholars working under Muslim rule in medieval times is that they were often polymaths. Examples include the work on Optics, Math and Astronomy of Ibn al-Haytham, or the work on Biology, Theology and Arabic literature of al-Jahiz. Many of these scholars were encouraged through patronage to take a multidisciplinary approach to their work and to dabble in multiple fields. Those individuals who were knowledgeable on a wide variety of subjects, especially practical topics, were respected and well-cared for in their societies.\n\nFunding of science existed in many Muslim empires outside the Abbasids and continued even after the Mongol invasions into the Middle East. Results of patronage in Medieval Islamic areas include the House of Wisdom in Baghdad, the Al-Azhar University in Cairo, Bimaristans across the Middle East and Persia, and famous observatories, such at that of Ulugh Beg in Samarqand. It is also significant to note that later Muslim empires (Ottomans, Safavid, Mughal empires) also supported science in their own ways, even though there scientific achievements were not as prominent on a global level.\n\nIn Italy, Galileo noted that individual taxation of minute amounts could fund large sums to the State, which could then fund his research on the trajectory of cannonballs, noting that \"each individual soldier was being paid from coin collected by a general tax of pennies and farthings, while even a million of gold would not suffice to pay the entire army.\"\n\nIn Great Britain, Lord Chancellor Sir Francis Bacon had a formative effect on science policy with his identification of \"experiments of .. light, more penetrating into nature [than what others know]\", which today we call the crucial experiment. Governmental approval of the Royal Society recognized a scientific community which exists to this day. British prizes for research spurred the development of an accurate, portable chronometer, which directly enabled reliable navigation and sailing on the high seas, and also funded Babbage's computer.\n\nMost of the important astronomers and natural philosophers (as well as artists) in the 16th and 17th centuries depended on the patronage of powerful religious or political figures to fund their work. Patronage networks extended all the way from Emperors and Popes to regional nobles to artisans to peasants; even university positions were based to some extent on patronage. Scholarly careers in this period were driven by patronage, often starting in undistinguished universities or local schools or courts, and traveling closer or farther from centers of power as their fortunes rose and fell.\n\nPatronage, and the desire for more, also shaped the work and publications of scientists. Effusive dedications to current or potential patrons can be found in almost every scholarly publication, while the interests of a patron in a specific topic was a strong incentive to pursue said topic—or reframe one's work in terms of it. Galileo, for example, first presented the telescope as a naval instrument to military- and commerce-focused Republic of Venice; when he sought the more prestigious patronage of the Medici court in Florence, he instead promoted the astronomical potential of the device (by naming the moons of Jupiter after the Medicis).\n\nA scholar's patron not only supported his research financially, but also provided credibility by associating results with the authority of the patron. This function of patronage was gradually subsumed by scientific societies, which also initially drew upon their royal charters for authority but eventually came to be sources of credibility on their own.\n\nSelf-funding and independent wealth were also crucial funding sources for scientists, from the Renaissance at least until the late 19th century. Many scientists derived income from tangential but related activities: Galileo sold instruments; Kepler published horoscopes; Robert Hooke designed buildings and built watches; and most anatomists and natural historians practiced or taught medicine. Those with independent means were sometimes known as gentlemen scientists.\n\nMilitary and commercial voyages, though not intended for scientific purposes, were especially important for the dramatic growth of natural historical knowledge during the \"Age of Exploration.\" Scholars and nobles in seafaring nations, first Spain and Portugal followed Italy, France and England, amassed unprecedented collections of biological specimens in cabinets of curiosities, which galvanized interest in diversity and taxonomy.\n\nGradually, a science policy arose that ideas be as free as the air (air being a free good, not just a public good). Steven Johnson, in \"The invention of air\" (a 2008 book on Enlightenment Europe and America, especially on Joseph Priestley) quotes Jefferson: \"That ideas should spread freely from one to another over the globe, for the moral and mutual instruction of man, and improvement of his condition, ... like the air ... incapable of confinement or exclusive appropriation.\" \n\nIn the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as the pace of technological progress increased before and during the industrial revolution, most scientific and technological research was carried out by individual inventors using their own funds. For example, Joseph Priestley was a clergyman and educator, who spoke freely with others, especially those in his scientific community, including Benjamin Franklin, a self-made man who retired from the printing business. A system of patents was developed to allow inventors a period of time (often twenty years) to commercialise their inventions and recoup a profit, although in practice many found this difficult. The talents of an inventor are not those of a businessman, and there are many examples of inventors (e.g. Charles Goodyear) making rather little money from their work whilst others were able to market it.\n\nThe professionalization of science, begun in the nineteenth century, was further enabled by the creation of scientific organizations such as the National Academy of Sciences in 1863, the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in 1911, and state funding of universities of their respective nations.\n\nIn the twentieth century, scientific and technological research became increasingly systematised, as corporations developed, and discovered that continuous investment in research and development could be a key element of success in a competitive strategy. It remained the case, however, that imitation by competitors – circumventing or simply flouting patents, especially those registered abroad – was often just as successful a strategy for companies focused on innovation in matters of organisation and production technique, or even in marketing. A classic example is that of Wilkinson Sword and Gillette in the disposable razor market, where the former has typically had the technological edge, and the latter the commercial one.\n\nSwedish industrialist Alfred Nobel's will directed that his vast fortune be utilized to establish prizes in the scientific fields of medicine, physics and chemistry as well as literature and peace. The Nobel prize served to provide financial incentives for scientists, elevated leading scientists to unprecedented visibility, and provided an example for other philanthropists of the industrial era to provide private sources of funding for scientific research and education. Ironically, it was not an era of peace that followed, but rather wars fought on unprecedented international scale that led to expanded state interest in the funding of science.\n\nThe desire for more advanced weapons during World War I inspired significant investments in scientific research and applied engineering in both Germany and allied countries. World War II spawned even more widespread scientific research and engineering development in such fields as nuclear chemistry and nuclear physics as scientists raced to contribute to the development of radar, the proximity fuse, and the atomic bomb. In Germany, scientists such as Werner Heisenberg were being pushed by the leaders of the German war effort, including Adolf Hitler to evaluate the feasibility of developing atomic weapons in time for them to have an effect on the outcome of the war. Meanwhile, allied countries in the late 1930s and 1940s committed monumental resources to wartime scientific research. In the United States, these efforts were initially led by the National Defense Research Committee. Later, the Office of Scientific Research and Development, organized and administered by the MIT engineer Vannevar Bush, took up the effort of coordinating government efforts in support of science.\n\nFollowing the United States entry into the second world war, the Manhattan Project emerged as a massive coordinated program to pursue development of nuclear weapons. Leading scientists such as Robert Oppenheimer, Glenn T. Seaborg, Enrico Fermi and Edward Teller were among the thousands of civilian scientists and engineers employed in the unprecedented wartime efforts. Entire communities were created to support the scientific and industrial aspects of the nuclear efforts in Los Alamos, New Mexico; Oak Ridge, Tennessee; the Hanford site in Washington and elsewhere. The Manhattan Project cost $1,889,604,000 of which $69,681,000 was dedicated to research and development. The Manhattan Project is regarded as a major milestone in the trend towards government funding of big science.\n\nIn the United States, the foundation for post-WWII science policy was laid out in Vannevar Bush's \"Science – the Endless Frontier\", submitted to President Truman in 1945. Vannevar Bush was President Roosevelt's science advisor and became one of the most influential science advisors as in his essay, he pioneered how we decide on science policy today. Vannevar Bush, director of the office of scientific research and development for the U.S. government, wrote in July 1945 that \"science is a proper concern of government\" This report led to the creation of the National Science Foundation in 1950 to support civilian scientific research.\n\nDuring the Cold War era, the former Soviet Union invested heavily in science, attempting to match American achievements in nuclear science and its military and industrial applications. At the same time, the United States invested heavily in advancing its own nuclear research and development activities through a system of National laboratories managed by the newly formed Atomic Energy Commission in collaboration with the University of California, Berkeley and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. This era of competition in science and weapons development was known as the arms race. In October 1957, the Soviet Union's successful launch of Sputnik spurred a strong reaction in the United States and a period of competition between the two new world superpowers in a space race. In reaction to Sputnik, President Eisenhower formed the President's Science Advisory Commission (PSAC). Its November 1960 report, \"Scientific Progress, the Universities, and the Federal Government,\" was also known as the \"Seaborg Report\" after University of California, Berkeley Chancellor Glenn T. Seaborg, the 1951 Nobel Laureate in Chemistry. The Seaborg Report, which emphasized federal funding for science and pure research, is credited with influencing the federal policy towards academic science for the next eight years. PSAC member John Bardeen observed: \"There was a time not long ago when science was so starved for funds that one could say almost any increase was desirable, but this is no longer true. We shall have to review our science budgets with particular care to [maintaining] a healthy rate of growth on a broad base and not see our efforts diverted into unprofitable channels.\" \n\nPresident John F. Kennedy's appointment of Seaborg as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission in 1961, put a respected scientist in a prominent government post where he could influence science policy for the next 11 years. In an address at Rice University in 1962, President Kennedy escalated the American commitment to the space program by identifying an important objective in the space race: \"We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard.\" . Federal funding for both pure and applied research reached unprecedented levels as the era of Big Science continued throughout the Cold War, largely due to desires to win the arms race and space race, but also because of American desires to make advances in medicine.\n\nStarting with the first Oil shock, an economic crisis hit the western world which made it more difficult for the states to maintain their uncritical funding of research and teaching. In the United Kingdom, the University Grants Committee started to lower their annual block grant for certain universities as soon as 1974. This was compounded by the access to power of the Thatcher government in 1979, who pledged a radical reduction of public spending. Between 1979 and 1981, more cuts in the block grant threatened universities and became opportunities seized by certain actors (heads of departments, vice-chancellors, etc.) for radical reorganisation and reorientation of the university's research.\nIn 1970 in the United States, the Military Authorization Act forbade the DOD to support research unless it had \"direct or apparent relationship\nto a specific military function.\" This cut the ability of the government to fund basic research.\n\nIn order to administer severely depleted resources in a (theoretically) transparent manner, several selectivity mechanisms were developed through the 1980s and 1990s. In the United Kingdom, the funding cuts of 1984-1986 were accompanied by an assessment of the quality of research. This was done by estimating outside research income (from Research Councils and private business), as well as \"informed prejudice\" by the experts on the UGC. This became the first Research Assessment Exercise, soon to be followed by many others.\n\nIn France, selectivity is exercised through various means. The CNRS evaluates regularly its units and researchers. For this reason, through the 1980s-90s, the government has attempted to privilege funding for researchers with a CNRS affiliation. With the creation of a contract system finalised in 1989, all research was submitted to approval of the university for inclusion in the contract passed with the Education Ministry. This allowed universities to select and privilege research and researchers they considered better than others (usually those associated to the CNRS or other grands corps de recherche).\n\nCritics of selectivity systems decry their inherent biases. Many selectivity systems such as the RAE estimate the quality of research by its income (especially private income), and therefore favour expensive disciplines at the expense of cheap ones (see Matthew effect). They also favour more applied research (liable to attract business funding) at the expense of more fundamental science. These systems (as well as others such as bibliometry) are also open to abuse and fixing.\n\nThe NSF and OSTP have established a Science of Science and Innovation Policy program known as SciSIP, aimed at understanding the field itself. (NSF site)\n\nThe European Union manages research funding through the Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development.\n\n"}
{"id": "13025827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13025827", "title": "How Children Learn", "text": "How Children Learn\n\nHow Children Learn is a nonfiction book by educator John Caldwell Holt, first published in 1967. A revised edition was released in 1983, with new chapters and commentaries.\n\nThe book focuses on Holt's interactions with young children and his observations of children learning. From them, he attempts to make sense of how and why children do the things they do. The central thesis of his work is that children learn most effectively by their own motivation and on their own terms. He opposes teaching in general, believing that children find it just as patronizing as would an adult and that parents should provide information only as it is requested.\n\nChildren learn best when they are not pressured to learn in a way that is of no interest to them.\n"}
{"id": "15092946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15092946", "title": "Impact evaluation", "text": "Impact evaluation\n\nImpact evaluation assesses the changes that can be attributed to a particular intervention, such as a project, program or policy, both the intended ones, as well as ideally the unintended ones. In contrast to outcome monitoring, which examines whether targets have been achieved, impact evaluation is structured to answer the question: how would outcomes such as participants' well-being have changed if the intervention had not been undertaken? This involves counterfactual analysis, that is, \"a comparison between what actually happened and what would have happened in the absence of the intervention.\" Impact evaluations seek to answer cause-and-effect questions. In other words, they look for the changes in outcome that are directly attributable to a program.\n\nImpact evaluation helps people answer key questions for evidence-based policy making: what works, what doesn't, where, why and for how much? It has received increasing attention in policy making in recent years in the context of both Western and developing countries. It is an important component of the armory of evaluation tools and approaches and integral to global efforts to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery and public spending more generally in improving living standards. Originally more oriented towards evaluation of social sector programs in developing countries, notably conditional cash transfers, impact evaluation is now being increasingly applied in other areas such as the agriculture, energy and transport.\n\nCounterfactual analysis enables evaluators to attribute cause and effect between interventions and outcomes. The 'counterfactual' measures what would have happened to beneficiaries in the absence of the intervention, and impact is estimated by comparing counterfactual outcomes to those observed under the intervention. The key challenge in impact evaluation is that the counterfactual cannot be directly observed and must be approximated with reference to a comparison group. There are a range of accepted approaches to determining an appropriate comparison group for counterfactual analysis, using either prospective (ex ante) or retrospective (ex post) evaluation design. Prospective evaluations begin during the design phase of the intervention, involving collection of baseline and end-line data from intervention beneficiaries (the 'treatment group') and non-beneficiaries (the 'comparison group'); they may involve selection of individuals or communities into treatment and comparison groups. Retrospective evaluations are usually conducted after the implementation phase and may exploit existing survey data, although the best evaluations will collect data as close to baseline as possible, to ensure comparability of intervention and comparison groups.\n\nThere are five key principles relating to internal validity (study design) and external validity (generalizability) which rigorous impact evaluations should address: confounding factors, selection bias, spillover effects, contamination, and impact heterogeneity.\n\n\nImpact evaluation designs are identified by the type of methods used to generate the counterfactual and can be broadly classified into three categories – experimental, quasi-experimental and non-experimental designs – that vary in feasibility, cost, involvement during design or after implementation phase of the intervention, and degree of selection bias. White (2006) and Ravallion (2008) discuss alternate Impact Evaluation approaches.\n\nUnder experimental evaluations the treatment and comparison groups are selected randomly and isolated both from the intervention, as well as any interventions which may affect the outcome of interest. These evaluation designs are referred to as randomized control trials (RCTs). In experimental evaluations the comparison group is called a control group. When randomization is implemented over a sufficiently large sample with no contagion by the intervention, the only difference between treatment and control groups on average is that the latter does not receive the intervention. Random sample surveys, in which the sample for the evaluation is chosen randomly, should not be confused with experimental evaluation designs, which require the random assignment of the treatment.\n\nThe experimental approach is often held up as the 'gold standard' of evaluation. It is the only evaluation design which can conclusively account for selection bias in demonstrating a causal relationship between intervention and outcomes. Randomization and isolation from interventions might not be practicable in the realm of social policy and may be ethically difficult to defend, although there may be opportunities to use natural experiments. Bamberger and White (2007) highlight some of the limitations to applying RCTs to development interventions. Methodological critiques have been made by Scriven (2008) on account of the biases introduced since social interventions cannot be triple blinded, and Deaton (2009) has pointed out that in practice analysis of RCTs falls back on the regression-based approaches they seek to avoid and so are subject to the same potential biases. Other problems include the often heterogeneous and changing contexts of interventions, logistical and practical challenges, difficulties with monitoring service delivery, access to the intervention by the comparison group and changes in selection criteria and/or intervention over time. Thus, it is estimated that RCTs are only applicable to 5 percent of development finance.\n\nQuasi-experimental approaches can remove bias arising from selection on observables and, where panel data are available, time invariant unobservables. Quasi-experimental methods include matching, differencing, instrumental variables and the pipeline approach; they are usually carried out by multivariate regression analysis.\n\nIf selection characteristics are known and observed, they can be controlled for to remove the bias. Matching involves comparing program participants with non-participants based on observed selection characteristics. Propensity score matching (PSM) uses a statistical model to calculate the probability of participating on the basis of a set of observable characteristics and matches participants and non-participants with similar probability scores. Regression discontinuity design exploits a decision rule as to who does and does not get the intervention to compare outcomes for those just either side of this cut-off.\n\nDifference-in-differences or double differences, which use data collected at baseline and end-line for intervention and comparison groups, can be used to account for selection bias under the assumption that unobservable factors determining selection are fixed over time (time invariant).\n\nInstrumental variables estimation accounts for selection bias by modelling participation using factors ('instruments') that are correlated with selection but not the outcome, thus isolating the aspects of program participation which can be treated as exogenous.\n\nThe pipeline approach (stepped-wedge design) uses beneficiaries already chosen to participate in a project at a later stage as the comparison group. The assumption is that as they have been selected to receive the intervention in the future they are similar to the treatment group, and therefore comparable in terms of outcome variables of interest. However, in practice, it cannot be guaranteed that treatment and comparison groups are comparable and some method of matching will need to be applied to verify comparability.\n\nNon-experimental impact evaluations are so-called because they do not involve a comparison group that does not have access to the intervention. The method used in non-experimental evaluation is to compare intervention groups before and after implementation of the intervention. Intervention interrupted time-series (ITS) evaluations require multiple data points on treated individuals before and after the intervention, while before versus after (or pre-test post-test) designs simply require a single data point before and after. Post-test analyses include data after the intervention from the intervention group only. Non-experimental designs are the weakest evaluation design, because to show a causal relationship between intervention and outcomes convincingly, the evaluation must demonstrate that any likely alternate explanations for the outcomes are irrelevant. However, there remain applications to which this design is relevant, for example, in calculating time-savings from an intervention which improves access to amenities. In addition, there may be cases where non-experimental designs are the only feasible impact evaluation design, such as universally implemented programmes or national policy reforms in which no isolated comparison groups are likely to exist.\n\nRandomized field experiments are the strongest research designs for assessing program impact. This particular research design is said to generally be the design of choice when it is feasible as it allows for a fair and accurate estimate of the program's actual effects (Rossi, Lipsey & Freeman, 2004).\n\nWith that said, randomized field experiments are not always feasible to carry out and in these situations there are alternative research designs that are at the disposal of an evaluator. The main problem though is that regardless of which design an evaluator chooses, they are prone to a common problem: Regardless of how well thought through or well implemented the design is, each design is subject to yielding biased estimates of the program effects. These biases play the role of exaggerating or diminishing program effects. Not only that, but the direction the bias may take cannot usually be known in advance (Rossi et al., 2004). These biases affect the interest of the stakeholder. Furthermore, it is possible that program participants are disadvantaged if the bias is in such a way that it contributes to making an ineffective or harmful program seem effective. There is also the possibility that a bias can make an effective program seem ineffective or even as far as harmful. This could possibly make the accomplishments of program seem small or even insignificant therefore forcing the personnel and even cause the program's sponsors to reduce or eliminate the funding for the program (Rossi et al., 2004).\n\nIt is safe to say that if an inadequate design yields bias, the stakeholders who are largely responsible for the funding of the program will be the ones most concerned; the results of the evaluation help the stakeholders decide whether or not to continue funding the program because the final decision lies with the funders and the sponsors. Not only are the stakeholders mostly concerned, but those taking part in the program or those the program is intended to positively affect will be affected by the design chosen and the outcome rendered by that chosen design. Therefore, the evaluator's concern is to minimize the amount of bias in the estimation of program effects (Rossi et al., 2004).\nBiases are normally visible in two situations: when the measurement of the outcome with program exposure or the estimate of what the outcome would have been without the program exposure is higher or lower than the corresponding \"true\" value (p267). Unfortunately, not all forms of bias that may compromise impact assessment are obvious (Rossi et al., 2004).\n\nThe most common form of impact evaluation design is comparing two groups of individuals or other units, an intervention group that receives the program and a control group that does not. The estimate of program effect is then based on the difference between the groups on a suitable outcome measure (Rossi et al., 2004). The random assignment of individuals to program and control groups allows for making the assumption of continuing equivalence. Group comparisons that have not been formed through randomization are known as non-equivalent comparison designs (Rossi et al., 2004).\n\nWhen there is an absence of the assumption of equivalence, the difference in outcome between the groups that would have occurred regardless creates a form of bias in the estimate of program effects. This is known as selection bias (Rossi et al., 2004). It creates a threat to the validity of the program effect estimate in any impact assessment using a non-equivalent group comparison design and appears in situations where some process responsible for influences that are not fully known selects which individuals will be in which group instead of the assignment to groups being determined by pure chance (Rossi et al., 2004). This may be because of participant self-selection, or it may be because of program placement (placement bias).\n\nSelection bias can occur through natural or deliberate processes that cause a loss of outcome data for members of the intervention and control groups that have already been formed. This is known as attrition and it can come about in two ways (Rossi et al., 2004): targets drop out of the intervention or control group cannot be reached or targets refuse to co-operate in outcome measurement. Differential attrition is assumed when attrition occurs as a result of something either than explicit chance process (Rossi et al., 2004). This means that \"those individuals that were from the intervention group whose outcome data are missing cannot be assumed to have the same outcome-relevant characteristics as those from the control group whose outcome data are missing\" (Rossi et al., 2004, p271). However, random assignment designs are not safe from selection bias which is induced by attrition (Rossi et al., 2004).\n\nThere are other factors that can be responsible for bias in the results of an impact assessment. These generally have to do with events or experiences other than receiving the program that occur during the intervention. These biases include secular trends, interfering events and maturation (Rossi et al., 2004).\n\nSecular trends can be defined as being relatively long-term trends in the community, region or country. These are also termed secular drift and may produce changes that enhance or mask the apparent effects of a (Rossi et al., 2004). For example, when a community's birth rate is declining, a program to reduce fertility may appear effective because of bias stemming from that downward trend (Rossi et al., 2004, p273).\n\nInterfering events are similar to secular trends; in this case it is the short-term events that can produce changes that may introduce bias into estimates of program effect, such as a power outage disrupting communications or hampering the delivery of food supplements may interfere with a nutrition program (Rossi et al., 2004, p273).\n\nImpact evaluation needs to accommodate the fact that natural maturational and developmental processes can produce considerable change independently of the program. Including these changes in the estimates of program effects would result in bias estimates. An example of this form of bias would be a program to improve preventative health practices among adults may seem ineffective because health generally declines with age (Rossi et al., 2004, p273).\n\n\"Careful maintenance of comparable circumstances for program and control groups between random assignment and outcome measurement should prevent bias from the influence of other differential experiences or events on the groups. If either of these conditions is absent from the design, there is potential for bias in the estimates of program effect\" (Rossi et al., 2004, p274).\n\nEstimation methods broadly follow evaluation designs. Different designs require different estimation methods to measure changes in well-being from the counterfactual. In experimental and quasi-experimental evaluation, the estimated impact of the intervention is calculated as the difference in mean outcomes between the treatment group (those receiving the intervention) and the control or comparison group (those who don't). This method is also called randomised control trials (RCT). According to an interview with Jim Rough, former representant of the American Evaluation Assosiciation, in the magazine D+C Development and Cooperation this method doesn't work for complex, multilayer matters. The single difference estimator compares mean outcomes at end-line and is valid where treatment and control groups have the same outcome values at baseline. The difference-in-difference (or double difference) estimator calculates the difference in the change in the outcome over time for treatment and comparison groups, thus utilizing data collected at baseline for both groups and a second round of data collected at end-line, after implementation of the intervention, which may be years later.\n\nImpact Evaluations which have to compare average outcomes in the treatment group, irrespective of beneficiary participation (also referred to as 'compliance' or 'adherence'), to outcomes in the comparison group are referred to as intention-to-treat (ITT) analyses. Impact Evaluations which compare outcomes among beneficiaries who comply or adhere to the intervention in the treatment group to outcomes in the control group are referred to as treatment-on-the-treated (TOT) analyses. ITT therefore provides a lower-bound estimate of impact, but is arguably of greater policy relevance than TOT in the analysis of voluntary programs.\n\nWhile there is agreement on the importance of impact evaluation, and a consensus is emerging around the use of counterfactual evaluation methods, there has also been widespread debate in recent years on both the definition of impact evaluation and the use of appropriate methods (see White 2009 for an overview).\n\nThe International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie) defines rigorous impact evaluations as: \"analyses that measure the net change in outcomes for a particular group of people that can be attributed to a specific program using the best methodology available, feasible and appropriate to the evaluation question that is being investigated and to the specific context\".\n\nAccording to the World Bank's DIME Initiative, \"Impact evaluations compare the outcomes of a program against a counterfactual that shows what would have happened to beneficiaries without the program. Unlike other forms of evaluation, they permit the attribution of observed changes in outcomes to the program being evaluated by following experimental and quasi-experimental designs\".\n\nSimilarly, according to the US Environmental Protection Agency impact evaluation is a form of evaluation that assesses the net effect of a program by comparing program outcomes with an estimate of what would have happened in the absence of a program.\n\nAccording to the World Bank's Independent Evaluation Group (IEG), impact evaluation is the systematic identification of the effects positive or negative, intended or not on individual households, institutions, and the environment caused by a given development activity such as a program or project.\n\nImpact evaluation has been defined differently over the past few decades. Other interpretations of impact evaluation include:\nOther authors make a distinction between \"impact evaluation\" and \"impact assessment.\" \"Impact evaluation\" uses empirical techniques to estimate the effects of interventions and their statistical significance, whereas \"impact assessment\" includes a broader set of methods, including structural simulations and other approaches that cannot test for statistical significance.\n\nCommon definitions of 'impact' used in evaluation generally refer to the totality of longer-term consequences associated with an intervention on quality-of-life outcomes. For example, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Development Assistance Committee (OECD-DAC) defines impact as the \"positive and negative, primary and secondary long-term effects produced by a development intervention, directly or indirectly, intended or unintended\". A number of international agencies have also adopted this definition of impact. For example, UNICEF defines impact as \"The longer term results of a program – technical, economic, socio-cultural, institutional, environmental or other – whether intended or unintended. The intended impact should correspond to the program goal.\" Similarly, Evaluationwiki.org defines impact evaluation as an evaluation that looks beyond the immediate results of policies, instruction, or services to identify longer-term as well as unintended program effects.\n\nTechnically, an evaluation could be conducted to assess 'impact' as defined here without reference to a counterfactual. However, much of the existing literature (e.g. NONIE Guidelines on Impact Evaluation adopts the OECD-DAC definition of impact while referring to the techniques used to attribute impact to an intervention as necessarily based on counterfactual analysis.\n\nWhat is missing from the term 'impact' evaluation is the way 'impact' shows up long-term. For instance, most Monitoring and Evaluation 'logical framework' plans have inputs-outputs-outcomes and... impacts. While the first three appear during the project duration itself, impact takes far longer to take place. For instance, in a 5-year agricultural project, seeds are inputs, farmers trained in using them our outputs, changes in crop yields as a result of the seeds being planted properly in an outcome and families being more sustainably food secure over time is an impact. Such post-project impact evaluations are very rare. They are also called ex-post evaluations or we are coining the term sustained impact evaluations. While hundreds of thousands of documents call for them, rarely do donors have the funding flexibility - or interest - to return to see how sustained, and durable our interventions remained after project close out, after resources were withdrawn. There are many lessons to be learned for design, implementation, M&E and how to foster country-ownership.\n\nThere is intensive debate in academic circles around the appropriate methodologies for impact evaluation, between proponents of experimental methods on the one hand and proponents of more general methodologies on the other. William Easterly has referred to this as 'The Civil War in Development economics'. Proponents of experimental designs, sometimes referred to as 'randomistas', argue randomization is the only means to ensure unobservable selection bias is accounted for, and that building up the flimsy experimental evidence base should be developed as a matter of priority. In contrast, others argue that randomized assignment is seldom appropriate to development interventions and even when it is, experiments provide us with information on the results of a specific intervention applied to a specific context, and little of external relevance. There has been criticism from evaluation bodies and others that some donors and academics over-emphasize favoured methods for impact evaluation, and that this may in fact hinder learning and accountability. In addition, there has been a debate around the appropriate role for qualitative methods within impact evaluations.\n\nWhile knowledge of effectiveness is vital, it is also important to understand the reasons for effectiveness and the circumstances under which results are likely to be replicated. In contrast with 'black box' impact evaluation approaches, which only report mean differences in outcomes between treatment and comparison groups, theory-based impact evaluation involves mapping out the causal chain from inputs to outcomes and impact and testing the underlying assumptions. Most interventions within the realm of public policy are of a voluntary, rather than coercive (legally required) nature. In addition, interventions are often active rather than passive, requiring a greater rather than lesser degree of participation among beneficiaries and therefore behavior change as a pre-requisite for effectiveness. Public policy will therefore be successful to the extent that people are incentivized to change their behaviour favourably. A theory-based approach enables policy-makers to understand the reasons for differing levels of program participation (referred to as 'compliance' or 'adherence') and the processes determining behavior change. Theory-Based approaches use both quantitative and qualitative data collection, and the latter can be particularly useful in understanding the reasons for compliance and therefore whether and how the intervention may be replicated in other settings. Methods of qualitative data collection include focus groups, in-depth interviews, participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and field visits, as well as reading of anthropological and political literature.\n\nWhite (2009b) advocates more widespread application of a theory-based approach to impact evaluation as a means to improve policy relevance of impact evaluations, outlining six key principles of the theory-based approach:\n\nWhile experimental impact evaluation methodologies have been used to assess nutrition and water and sanitation interventions in developing countries since the 1980s, the first, and best known, application of experimental methods to a large-scale development program is the evaluation of the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) program Progresa (now called Oportunidades) in Mexico, which examined a range of development outcomes, including schooling, immunization rates and child work. CCT programs have since been implemented by a number of governments in Latin America and elsewhere, and a report released by the World Bank in February 2009 examines the impact of CCTs across twenty countries.\n\nMore recently, impact evaluation has been applied to a range of interventions across social and productive sectors. 3ie has launched an online database of impact evaluations covering studies conducted in low- and middle income countries. Other organisations publishing Impact Evaluations include Innovations for Poverty Action, the World Bank's DIME Initiative and NONIE. The IEG of the World Bank has systematically assessed and summarized the experience of ten impact evaluation of development programs in various sectors carried out over the past 20 years.\n\nIn 2006, the Evaluation Gap Working Group argued for a major gap in the evidence on development interventions, and in particular for an independent body to be set up to plug the gap by funding and advocating for rigorous impact evaluation in low- and middle-income countries. The International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie) was set up in response to this report. 3ie seeks to improve the lives of poor people in low- and middle-income countries by providing, and summarizing, evidence of what works, when, why and for how much. 3ie operates a grant program, financing impact studies in low- and middle-income countries and synthetic reviews of existing evidence updated as new evidence appears, and supports quality impact evaluation through its quality assurance services.\n\nAnother initiative devoted to the evaluation of impacts is the Committee on Sustainability Assessment (COSA). COSA is a non-profit global consortium of institutions, sustained in partnership with the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) Sustainable Commodity Initiative, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), and the United Nations International Trade Centre (ITC). COSA is developing and applying an independent measurement tool to analyze the distinct social, environmental and economic impacts of agricultural practices, and in particular those associated with the implementation of specific sustainability programs (Organic, Fairtrade etc.). The focus of the initiative is to establish global indicators and measurement tools which farmers, policy-makers, and industry can use to understand and improve their sustainability with different crops or agricultural sectors. COSA aims to facilitate this by enabling them to accurately calculate the relative costs and benefits of becoming involved in any given sustainability initiative.\n\nA number of additional organizations have been established to promote impact evaluation globally, including Innovations for Poverty Action, the World Bank's Strategic Impact Evaluation Fund (SIEF), the World Bank's Development Impact Evaluation (DIME) Initiative, the Institutional Learning and Change (ILAC) Initiative of the CGIAR, and the Network of Networks on Impact Evaluation (NONIE).\n\nA range of organizations are working to coordinate the production of systematic reviews. Systematic reviews aim to bridge the research-policy divide by assessing the range of existing evidence on a particular topic, and presenting the information in an accessible format. Like rigorous impact evaluations, they are developed from a study Protocol which sets out a priori the criteria for study inclusion, search and methods of synthesis. Systematic reviews involve five key steps: determination of interventions, populations, outcomes and study designs to be included; searches to identify published and unpublished literature, and application of study inclusion criteria (relating to interventions, populations, outcomes and study design), as set out in study Protocol; coding of information from studies; presentation of quantitative estimates on intervention effectiveness using forest plots and, where interventions are determined as appropriately homogeneous, calculation of a pooled summary estimate using meta-analysis; finally, systematic reviews should be updated periodically as new evidence emerges. Systematic reviews may also involve the synthesis of qualitative information, for example relating to the barriers to, or facilitators of, intervention effectiveness.\n\nOrganizations supporting the production of systematic reviews include the Cochrane Collaboration, which has been coordinating systematic reviews in the medical and public health fields since 1993, and publishes the Cochrane Handbook which is definitive systematic review methodology guide. In addition, the Campbell Collaboration has coordinated the production of systematic reviews of social interventions since 2000, and the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (in partnership with the Campbell Collaboration) is funding systematic reviews of social programs in developing countries. Other organizations supporting systematic reviews include the Institute of Education's EPPI-Centre and the University of York's Centre for Reviews and Dissemination.\n\nThe body of evidence from systematic reviews is large and available through various online portals including the Cochrane library, the Campbell library, and the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. The available evidence from Reviews of development interventions in low- and middle-income countries is being built up by organisations such as the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation's synthetic reviews programme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29157562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29157562", "title": "Isabel Aretz", "text": "Isabel Aretz\n\nIsabel Aretz (14 April 19092 June 2005) was an Argentine–Venezuelan researcher, writer, ethnomusicologist and composer.\n\nIsabel Aretz-Thiele was born in Buenos Aires. She was educated at the National Conservatory of Music and Performing Arts, studying pedagogy, piano with Rafael González and harmony, counterpoint and composition with Althos Palma. She earned a doctorate in music from Catholic University of Argentina in 1968.\n\nAfter completing her initial studies, Aretz became a senior lecturer at the National Conservatory and began work as an ethnomusic researcher and composer. In 1937 her orchestral work \"Punto\" premiered at the Teatro Cervantes. In the next decade, she collected and recorded traditional music, traveling in Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, Chile, Bolivia and Peru. In 1947 she married Venezuelan musician and writer Luis Felipe Ramón y Rivera.\n\nShe was asked that same year to organize the music section of the Folklore Research Service established in Venezuela, and she continued her research on folk music there. In 1966 she was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship to record native melodies in Mexico, Colombia, Ecuador and Central America.\n\nAretz-Thiele founded the American Institute of Ethnomusicology and Folklore (INIDEF) in Venezuela and chaired the institution from 1990 and 1995. She became a professor of ethnomusicology at the School of Arts, Central University of Venezuela, and at Indiana University in the United States. She was also a guest lecturer at other universities in Mexico and Colombia.\n\nAretz-Thiele published a number of journal articles and about twenty-five books on American folklore, plus an autobiography. After her husband died in 1992, she was appointed a member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences in Argentina, and she returned to San Isidro to live and work until her death in June 2005.\n\n\nAretz-Thiele composed works for orchestra, symphonies, symphonic plays and choral works, and piano and harpsichord suites. Selected works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "31142273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31142273", "title": "Iñigo Ed. Regalado", "text": "Iñigo Ed. Regalado\n\n\"This is about Iñigo Ed. Regalado the novelist, for his father the poet and printer, see Iñigo Corcuera Regalado.\"\n\nIñigo Ed. Regalado (16 March 1888 [1 June 1888 feast day]– 24 July 1976) was a Filipino poet, journalist, and novelist. He was the son of Iñigo Corcuera Regalado, the renowned Tagalog printer and journalist. His mother was Saturnina Reyes. As an editor, Iñigo Ed Regalado was one of the \"powerful voices\" in the newspapers and magazines during the first part of the 1900s. It was during his time when the Golden Age of the Tagalog Novel (1905–1921) started. The whole period of the Golden Age of the Tagalog Novel was from 1905 to 1935.\n\nHe was born in Sampaloc, Manila. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the Liceo de Manila in 1907. He finished studying Law from the Academia dela Jurisprudencia on 1913. He became a writer in the newspapers \"Taliba\", \"Ang Mithi\" (The Goal), \"Ang Watawat\" (The Flag), \"Pagkakaisa\" (Unity), the weekly newspaper \"Ilang-ilang\", and \"Liwayway\".\n\nHe was one of the initiators of the Surian ng Wikang Pambansa. He became a language professor in different universities in Manila. He was the dean of the Department of the Pilipino Language of the Centro Escolar University. He was also a former councilor of the City of Manila.\n\nAmong his awarded works were the 1964 poem \"Tilamsik\" (literally splash [of water] or spark [of fire]), the 1941 compilation entitled \"Damdamin\" (feelings, emotion). \"Damdamin\" won the first prize during the first poetry competition during the time of the Commonwealth of the Philippines in 1941. He wrote more than 26 novels. His works belonged in \"The Golden Age of the Tagalog Novel\". Among his well-known works was \"Prinsesa Urduja\" (Princess Urduja), a play that was presented in the Cultural Center of the Philippines. He also wrote for Telembang: Lingguhang Mapagpatawa at Manunukso, which published the first regular komiks strip in the Philippines entitled, Si Kiko at si Angge, in 1922. The strip was written by Regalado and illustrated by National Artist Fernando Amorsolo. It depicted the lives of Filipinos under the American colonial rule via the competing politics and points of view of its eponymous husband and wife.\n\nRegalado was careful in choosing descriptive words for his writing. He used clear characterization, natural dialogues and settings for his novels and short stories.\n\nHe died on 24 July 1974 because of lung cancer in Lourdes Hospital in Manila at the age of 86.\n\nThe following are Regalado's novels:\n\n"}
{"id": "27377081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27377081", "title": "Jadara University", "text": "Jadara University\n\nJadara University (Arabic: جامعة جدارا) is a university located in the northern province of Irbid Governorate in Jordan, on the international highway to the north of the city of Irbid, the governorate's capital.\n\nJadara University was approved by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research in November 2004, and was established in the following year. It awards undergraduate and masters degrees mainly in Arabic, and English literature, science, and information technology.\nThe university was named after the historic city of Gadara which is located about 20 km from the university campus.\n\nThere are six colleges in the university:\n\n"}
{"id": "58844642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58844642", "title": "Julio Cabrera (philosopher)", "text": "Julio Cabrera (philosopher)\n\nJulio Cabrera is an Argentine philosopher living in Brazil. He is a retired professor of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Brasília and former head of the department. Previously he taught in Argentina, at the National University of Córdoba, the University of Belgrano and then in Brazil at the Federal University of Santa Maria. Currently, he is a senior associate researcher, by invitation, in the Bioethics Doctoral Program of the University of Brasília. He is best known for his works on \"negative ethics\" and cinema and philosophy. Other areas of philosophy that he deals with are philosophy of language, logic and Latin American philosophy.\n\nIn his book \"A Critique of Affirmative Morality (A reflection on Death, Birth and the Value of Life)\", Julio Cabrera presents his theory about the value of human existence. Human life, for Cabrera, is \"structurally negative\" in that its constitutive components are inherently adverse: as prominent among them Cabrera cites loss, scarcity, pain, conflicts, fragility, illness, aging, boredom and death. According to Cabrera they form the basic structure to human life, which he analyzes through what he calls naturalistic phenomenology, drawing freely from thinkers such as Martin Heidegger, Arthur Schopenhauer and Friedrich Nietzsche. Cabrera has called his work an attempt to put together Schopenhauer and Heidegger, introducing a determinant judgement of the value of Being into the analysis of Dasein, and putting morality above life, against Nietzsche. \n\nCabrera develops an ethical theory, negative ethics, that is informed by this phenomenological analysis. He argues that there has been an unwarranted prejudice in ethics against non-Being, a view he calls \"affirmativity\". Because affirmative views take Being as good, they always view things that threaten this hegemony as bad; particularly things like abstention from procreation or suicide. Cabrera criticizes affirmative ethics for asking how people should live without asking the radical question of whether people should live tout court. He argues that, because of the structural negativity of Being, there is a fundamental \"moral disqualification\" of human beings due to the impossibility of nonharming and nonmanipulating others. Nonharming and nonmanipulating others is called by him the \"fundamental ethical articulation\" (\"FEA\"). The FEA is violated by our structural \"moral impediment\", by the worldly discomforts – notably pain and discouragement – imposed on us that prevent us from acting ethically. Cabrera argues that an affirmative morality is a self-contradiction because it conceives a human existence that precludes the possibility of not-harming or not-manipulating others. Thus he believes that affirmative societies, through their politics, require the common suspension of the FEA to even function.\n\nAs a response to the negative structure of Being, Cabrera's negative ethics is acutely aware of the morally disqualifying nature of Being. Cabrera believes children are usually considered as mere aesthetic objects, are not created for their own sake but for the sake of their parents, and are thrown into a structurally negative life by the act of procreation. Procreation is, as Cabrera argues, a supreme act of manipulation, a harm and a violation of autonomy. He argues that the consistent application of normal moral concepts – like duty, virtue or respect – present in most affirmative moralities entails antinatalism. Cabrera also believes that a human being adopting negative ethics should not only abstain from procreation, but also should have a complete willingness for an ethical death, by immediate suspension of all personal projects in benefit of a political fight or an altruistic suicide, when it becomes the least immoral course of action.\n\nCabrera’s \"Critique\" is one of his most systematic defenses of negative ethics, but he has also explored the same ideas in other works, such as \"Projeto de Ética Negativa\", \"Ética Negativa: problemas e discussoes\", \"Porque te amo, não nascerás! Nascituri te salutant\" and \"Mal-estar e moralidade: situação humana, ética e procriação responsável\".\n\nIn his first book about cinema-philosophical thought, \"Cine, 100 anos de filosofia: Una Introducción a la Filosofia A Traves del Análisis de Películas\", Julio Cabrera proposes the notion of \"logopathy\" (from Greek: \"logos\" – \"reason\" and \"páthos\" – \"feelings\"), that is, of \"cognitive-affective concepts\", treating them as capable of putting in question the traditional view of philosophy about concepts, which he calls apathetic and tied to purely intellectual concepts. Cabrera sustains that logopathic philosophy is of the order of meaning, and not of truth, and that it adds affective elements of judgment to these traditional intellectual view of concepts. \n\nCabrera considers cinema one of the most fruitful means for the generation of concepts of a logopathic type, specifically denominated by him as \"concept-image\", as opposed to \"concept-idea\", the apathetic type of concept. He believes that cinema, by its powerful audiovisual means of expression, would provide a \"superpotentiation\" of conceptual possibilities, and therefore, of the establishment of the experience of the film, indispensable to the development of the concept-image, with the consequent increase of affective impact.\n\nOn the other hand, Cabrera believes that throughout history of European philosophy, at various moments, written philosophy – the opposite of visual philosophy – has also been logopathic, it has thought through affections, but without assuming it openly, while cinema usually has been seen only as a mere affective phenomenon, without relevant cognitive power. His notions of logopathy and concept-image seek to eliminate this dichotomy, pointing to the affectivity of the intellect and the cognitiveness of affections.\nCabrera gave continuity to the exposition of his cinema-philosophy thinking in books like \"De Hitchcock a Greenaway pela história da filosofia: novas reflexoes sobre cinema e filosofia\" (a sort of second volume of \"Cine: 100 anos de filosofia\") and \"Diálogo/cinema\", where in a debate through letters with Marcia Tiburi, he discusses the subject from the perspective that, long before the invention of the cinema, philosophy was already \"filming\" ideas through images, and also in articles \"Para una des-comprensión filosófica Del cine: el caso Inland Empire de David Lynch\", \"Três ensaios sobre a repetição: Kierkegaard, Jarmush, Hitchcock, Van Sant e três damas que desembarcam antes de chegar (Uma reflexão transversal sobre escrita e imagem)\", \"Existencia naufragada. Los 4 viajes del Titanic\", \"Repetición y cine vacío\". and \"Cine, filosofía y filosofía analítica\". \n\nFor Cabrera, philosophies of language are philosophies for which language does not matter in so far as it merely conveys something, but insofar as it constitutes – and implements – concepts and structures of understanding of the world. From this large sense of the term, he identifies four philosophies of language, which are: analytical, hermeneutic, phenomenological and meta-critical. Looking through the prism of negativity, Cabrera shows how the four above types of philosophies of language fail at a common point: their incapacity to fight against the failures of meaning. For the analytics, the point presents itself in the “meaninglessness” of expressions which is treated as a limit beyond which one should not go. However, according to Cabrera, this analytic objectivism excludes fundamental dimensions of the problem of meaning, such as time and lived experience. Phenomenology expands the analytic semantic horizon with the dimension of intentionality (of which analytic intensionality is only an inauthentic correlate, essentially objective) without the problem of meaninglessness being tamed. It remains for phenomenology, however, the temporality and historicity that hermeneutics adds to the approach of the problem, which is called \"misunderstanding\". Hermeneutic falls into the basic \"distortions of meanings\", something stronger than \"meaninglessness\" and \"misunderstanding\", a subject of meta-critical philosophies, represented by Karl Marx’s and Sigmund Freud’s philosophies of language. \n\nCabrera strongly criticizes the analytic approach to language for its denial of everything that is not objective. But according to him, also the other philosophies of language show their faults, from phenomenology to hermeneutics and even meta-criticism harboring therapies redeeming only in an illusory manner: psychoanalytic healing or communist utopia. Cabrera’s philosophy of language is a philosophy of confrontations between philosophies, which can only be made under the sign of resignation in finitude and negativism. He argues that not one of the kinds of philosophies of language that have been side-by-side in the last century and a half can, by itself, account for the complexity of the human. It is in this sense that, for Cabrera, all understanding is, ultimately, a self-sustaining illusion.\n\nLogic for Cabrera is often linked to three fundamental principles: (1) The object that propositions deal with is indeterminate and general, (2) Logic applies to ordinary reasoning, albeit with some effort, and (3) Logic is formal rather than lexical, that is, based on the structural and non-semantic connections in language. Cabrera constructs his thought in this area by criticizing each of these three basic premises of the logical tradition. \n\nHis intuition in this field of research is the same as in others: the intersections of traditions enriches thought and is essential to account for the human condition. Thus, logical formalization is important for thinking about existence, just as the issues of human existence are essential for understanding thinking and logic. This conception of philosophy owes the hardly unorthodox intersections that Cabrera did in his studies of logic, connecting Saul Kripke with Martin Heidegger, Immanuel Kant with John Austin, and Ludwig Wittgenstein with Jean-Paul Sartre.\n\nCabrera's work has the expectation of allying the formal instruments to the existential contents of life. The critique to the alleged empty generality of logic goes in this direction as well as the proposal of a lexical logic of predicative connections, in an attempt to lend to lexical analysis a formal dimension, but loaded with content. The specific work on concept networks in lexical logic was developed in partnership with the physicist Olavo Leopoldino da Silva Filho, from the University of Brasilia.\n\nHis work on logic also proceeds to a revision of the history of logic. An outline of his version of the history of logic would be as follows: (1) Aristotle, in syllogisms and beyond, (2) The Platonic conception of logic, (3) The logic of the connections of meanings in the Middle Ages, (4) Modern criticisms of formal logic: Francis Bacon, Rene Descartes and John Locke, the scientific method and logic, philosophical analysis and heuristics, the Port-Royal Logic, (5) The case of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz: what the official history took and what it didn't analyze, (6) Formal logic, transcendental logic: Immanuel Kant, (7) The logic in motion of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel: Hegelian criticism of denial, (8) the logic of the induction of John Stuart Mill, (9) Three conceptions of logic in the passage from the nineteenth to the twentieth century: Gottlob Frege, John Dewey and Edmund Husserl, logic within analysis, pragmatism, and phenomenology, (10) The case of Charles Sanders Peirce: what the official story took and what it didn't analyze.\n\nCabrera also develops a negative approach to argumentation in the field of informal logic, a pessimistic parallel theory to his negative ethics. For him, an affirmative approach to argumentation is one in which philosophical problems are considered to have one solution or at least an adequate treatment amongst many others that are inadequate and wrong. In Cabrera's view, according to the affirmative approach, the multiplicity of answers given by philosophy is a mistake which must be \"resolved\" in some way. On the other hand, according to the negative approach, the multiplicity of answers given by philosophy is not a mistake, but its most natural development. The negative approach to argumentation is concerned with treating one's own position and perspective not as a unique truth, but as one of many within an extensive and complex holistic web of approaches and perspectives, that speak and criticize mutually without discarding one another, although each of such positions may be fiercely maintained based on its perspective and assumptions, supported on defensible grounds.\n\nCabrera argues that there are epistemic injustices associated with the practice of philosophy in colonized contexts such as in Latin America. In a lecture in Unisinos University, Cabrera began to enunciate the problem of colonization in philosophy in a succinct and direct way:\n\nA central idea he came to defend is that the current status of philosophy in many Latin American countries is a product of the way philosophy is taught, researched, and written by local institutions that are subordinate to the international scene. Professional philosophy in these countries have been developed around commenting European (and, to a lesser extent, North American) philosophers, and this emphasis has developed as a corollary of the idea that philosophy is done only with reference to European philosophers and no Latin American is encouraged to challenge this hegemony. Alongside this inhibition of Latin American philosophy is the idea that what is European is universal while what is Latin American is merely local or national. He makes a diagnosis in the form of \"acervo T\" (\"T collection\"), theses on the hegemony of Eurocentric philosophy; this collection of theses is understood by Cabrera as being tacitly adopted by most of the Latin American philosophers. In opposition to this colonial order, Cabrera proposes and recommends several practices concerning the teaching and practice of philosophy, among them: (1) A greater attention to Latin American sources so that the history of philosophy on the continent does not continue to be ignored by local philosophers and that the work of these philosophers be as much discussed as that of European sources, (2) A stimulus to philosophy that is not from Latin America nor about Latin America, but from Latin America where the local starting point is made explicit, (3) The practice of appropriation in which philosophers from other contexts are placed in discussions of interest to Latin America. This practice can be found in important philosophical works in Latin America such as that of Enrique Dussel with which Cabrera maintained published debates.\n\nCabrera has defended the crossing of boundaries between traditions and has on many occasions shown the potential for fertilization stemming from the juxtaposition, friction and debate between philosophies originating from analytical and continental traditions. Over time, he extended this metaphilosophical approach in the direction of making it an element of the struggle against what he began to clearly see as the colonized state of philosophy in Latin America.\n\nIn his book \"Diário de um filósofo no Brasil\", Cabrera documents the problems of self-reliant inventive philosophy in Brazil; the book describes the environment of suppression of philosophical intuition in its many mechanisms attending to what is specific in the Brazilian colonized context. The book portraits what it means to philosophize from somewhere and tries to present alternatives to the philosophical commentary that can flourish even in a hostile environment. \n\nFor Cabrera, it is important to understand from where philosophy in Latin America is made: it is made from invaded, looted, dominated countries that have been placed in intellectual subservience. He claims that this makes the philosophy produced there different from all European philosophy – and it is important to stress that no philosophy is born universal. Cabrera notes that philosophy in Brazil, especially made in departments in the academy, is particularly blind to the sources of Latin American thought, both from the classics (Bartolomé de Las Casas, Antônio Vieira, Flora Tristan, Juan Bautista Alberdi, José Martí and José Enrique Rodó) and contemporary (José Carlos Mariátegui, Edmundo O'Gorman, Leopoldo Zea, Miguel León Portilla, Roberto Fernández Retamar and Santiago Castro-Gómez), known only in isolated expert communities. His proposition is a course in the history of thought that begins with pre-Columbian Amerindian thought and which does not pass through Europeans (nor Greeks) until the nineteenth century. The idea is to read nineteenth-century European philosophers who challenged intellectualist and Christian traditions, such as Arthur Schopenhauer, Søren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche (and their precursors Michel de Montaigne, Denis Diderot and Jean-Jacques Rousseau), as influenced virtually by Amerindian ways of living and thinking.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54443869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54443869", "title": "Karuppannan Jaishankar", "text": "Karuppannan Jaishankar\n\nKaruppannan Jaishankar (born 15 June 1973) is an Indian criminologist who teaches at Raksha Shakti University. He is the editor in chief of \"International Journal of Cyber Criminology\".\n\nJaishankar is the Professor and Head of the Department of Criminology at the Raksha Shakti University (First Internal Security and Police University of India) Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India. Earlier, he was a faculty member at the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, Tirunelveli.\n\nHe was a Commonwealth Academic Fellow during 2009-10 at the Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, School of Law, University of Leeds.\n\nHe proposed what he calls the \"space transition theory\", which holds that people behave differently online than they do in real life.\n\nHe is the founder president of the South Asian Society of Criminology and Victimology (SASCV), which works with motto \"to develop Criminology and Victimology in the South Asian region\" and has organized three international conferences of SASCV as the General Chair (Jaipur, 2011, Kanyakumari, 2013 and Goa, 2016).\n\nHe co-founded the Centre for Cyber Victim Counselling (CCVC) along with Debarati Halder, which works with the motto to prevent cyber victimization and protect cyber victims.\n\n\nIn 2012, Jaishankar won the National Academy of Sciences, India (NASI) - SCOPUS Young Scientist Award in the category \"Social sciences\".\n\nHe is appointed by the British Society of Criminology (BSC) as an International Ambassador.\n"}
{"id": "1370845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1370845", "title": "List of Iranian research centers", "text": "List of Iranian research centers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4797418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797418", "title": "Massachusetts School Laws", "text": "Massachusetts School Laws\n\nThe Massachusetts School Laws were three legislative acts of 1642, 1647 and 1648 enacted in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. The most famous by far is the law of 1647, also known as the Old Deluder Satan Law (after the law's first sentence) and The General School Law of 1642. These laws are commonly regarded as the historical first step toward compulsory government-directed public education in the United States of America. Shortly after they passed, similar laws were enacted in the other New England colonies. Most mid-Atlantic colonies followed suit, though in some Southern colonies it was a further century before publicly funded schools were established there.\n\nThe law was one of a series of legislative acts directed at public education in the colony. The first Massachusetts School Law of 1642 broke with English tradition by transferring educational supervision from the clergy to the selectmen of the colony, empowering them to assess the education of children \"to read & understand the principles of religion and the capital laws of this country.\" It held parents and masters responsible for their children's and apprentices' ability to read and write, stressing education rather than schooling. However, its implementation appears to have been somewhat neglected. Probably in response to this, the 1647 law was enacted by the Massachusetts General Court to impel the towns of the colony to found, operate and fund schools.\n\nThe 1647 legislation specifically framed ignorance as a Satanic ill to be circumvented through the education of the country's young people. It required every town having more than 50 families to hire a teacher, and every town of more than 100 families to establish a \"grammar school\". Failure to comply with the mandate would result in a fine of £5. The grammar school clause was intended to prepare students to attend Harvard College, whose mission was to prepare young men for the ministry.\n\nThe rationale for the law reflected the Calvinist Puritan ethos of the time and in particular the influence of the Reverend John Cotton, who was a teacher in the First Church of Boston and one of the Massachusetts Bay Colony's most influential leaders. The Puritans sought to create a literate population to ensure that, as the law put it, \"ye ould deluder, Satan\" could not use illiteracy to \"keepe men from the knowledge of ye Scriptures.\" Their religious beliefs emphasized the view that personal knowledge of the Scriptures was an essential requirement for temporal living and eternal salvation. The statute also endorsed the principle that the interpretation of the Scriptures should be done under the aegis of proper authority, namely the Puritan leaders, in order to avoid \"false glosses of saint seeming deceivers\".\n\nA further piece of educational legislation was passed in 1648, addressing and extending the schooling requirements set out in the 1642 law. It stipulated that children and apprentices, under the authority of parents or masters, were to be taught reading, the public laws, the catechism and \"some honest lawful calling, labour or employment.\" Selectmen were to act as supervisors of the population, conducting examinations and if necessary fining parents or placing the young with other masters if their education was neglected.\n\nThe practical implementation of the educational laws appears to have been distinctly inconsistent. By the end of the 1650s, all eight of the 100-family towns and a third of the 50-family towns had met the respective requirements for grammar schools and the hiring of teachers. However, the remainder of the towns and many new towns ignored both mandates and instead paid the fine. The Massachusetts Evil Code of 1660 reiterated the school laws, but still met with a lack of implementation; to enforce it, a fresh act was passed in 1668.\n\nForasmuch as the good education of children is of singular behoof and benefit to any Common-wealth; and whereas many parents & masters are too indulgent and negligent of their duty in that kind. It is therfore ordered that the Select men of every town, in the severall precincts and quarters where they dwell, shall have a vigilant eye over their brethren & neighbours, to see, first that none of them shall suffer so much barbarism in any of their families as not to indeavour to teach by themselves or others, their children & apprentices so much learning as may enable them perfectly to read the English tongue, & knowledge of the Capital Lawes: upon penaltie of twentie shillings for each neglect therin. Also that all masters of families do once a week (at the least) catechize their children and servants in the grounds & principles of Religion, & if any be unable to do so much: that then at the least they procure such children or apprentices to learn some short orthodox catechism without book, that they may be able to answer unto the questions that shall be propounded to them out of such catechism by their parents or masters or any of the Select men when they shall call them to a tryall of what they have learned of this kind. And further that all parents and masters do breed & bring up their children & apprentices in some honest lawful calling, labour or employment, either in husbandry, or some other trade profitable for themselves, and the Common-wealth if they will not or cannot train them up in learning to fit them for higher employments. And if any of the Select men after admonition by them given to such masters of families shall find them still negligent of their duty in the particulars aforementioned, whereby children and servants become rude, stubborn & unruly; the said Select men with the help of two Magistrates, or the next County court for that Shire, shall take such children or apprentices from them & place them with some masters for years (boyes till they come to twenty one, and girls eighteen years of age compleat) which will more strictly look unto, and force them to submit unto government according to the rules of this order, if by fair means and former instructions they will not be drawn into it.\n\nIt being one chief project of that old deluder, Satan, to keep men from the knowledge of the Scriptures, as in former times by keeping them in an unknown tongue, so in these latter times by persuading from the use of tongues, that so that at least the true sense and meaning of the original might be clouded and corrupted with love and false glosses of saint-seeming deceivers; and to the end that learning may not be buried in the grave of our forefathers, in church and commonwealth, the Lord assisting our endeavors. \nIt is therefore ordered that every township in this jurisdiction, after the Lord hath increased them to fifty households shall forthwith appoint one within their town to teach all such children as shall resort to him to write and read, whose wages shall be paid either by the parents or masters of such children, or by the inhabitants in general, by way of supply, as the major part of those that order the prudentials of the town shall appoint; provided those that send their children be not oppressed by paying much more than they can have them taught for in other towns. \n\nAnd it is further ordered, that when any town shall increase to the number of one hundred families or householders, they shall set up a grammar school, the master thereof being able to instruct youth so far as they may be fitted for the university, provided that if any town neglect the performance hereof above one year that every such town shall pay 5 pounds to the next school till they shall perform this order. \n"}
{"id": "5854300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5854300", "title": "Modern Studies", "text": "Modern Studies\n\nModern studies is a subject unique to the Scottish secondary school curriculum. The focus of Modern Studies is to develop learners' knowledge and understanding of contemporary political and social issues in local, Scottish, United Kingdom and international contexts.\n\nModern Studies is offered both at National Qualification level and also in the Broad General Education stage of Scottish education. Pupils in primary school and up to S3 in secondary school have the opportunity to study Modern Studies concepts through the 'People in Society, Economy and Business' area of the broader Social Studies Curriculum for Excellence experiences and outcomes. In the Senior Phase, Modern Studies is offered as a discrete subject. Ray Gunnion, history teacher in Brannock High School until 2004, was largely involved in introducing Modern Studies into the Scottish Education system as he felt it was a valuable subject for kids in Scotland.\n\nModern Studies helps you develop knowledge and understanding of the processes that determine political, social and economic life. These processes are studied locally, nationally and internationally.\n\nModern Studies helps you develop important skills. For example you will become better at critically evaluating information, analysing complex sources and report writing. In some instances, the skills involved in using information technology will also be developed.\n\nTogether, the knowledge you acquire and the skills you develop will allow you to become a more informed individual, able to participate more effectively in society in a more tolerant and responsible manner.\n\nCommon study themes exist across Modern Studies qualifications, from Broad General Education to Senior Phase.\n\nPupils are given the opportunity to learn about the democratic processes of the United Kingdom with a focus on either UK democracy or Scottish democracy. This includes examining rights and responsibilities, the political process, participation and representation at various levels.\n\nPupils examine social issues in society using sociological processes. The focus of this unit is either Social Inequality or Crime and the Law.\n\nA focus on social inequalities would examine issues of health, education, income and wealth inequalities in the UK by studying selected groups such as the unemployed, working poor, women, children, the elderly, LBGT* people, BME people and others.\n\nA focus on Crime and the Law would explore the types of crime committed in the UK, the sociological and individualistic theories of the causes of crime, the impact of crime and attempts to tackle crime. The unit would examine the role of the criminal justice system, the police and the government.\n\nThe International Issues unit is intended to broaden the scope of pupils' experiences to international contexts. The focus of this unit will examine either a World Power or a World Issue.\n\nA focus on a World Power will consist of a socioeconomic and political study of a G20 country (excluding the United Kingdom). This focus will be on the country's constitutional arrangements and opportunities for participation, the nature of recent socioeconomic issues and attempts to revolve them and the international influence of the world power.\n\nA focus on a World Issue would put in the spotlight a contemporary significant conflict or issue which extends beyond the borders of a single country and has had impacts regionally or globally. Examples of areas of study in this area would be terrorism or the Syrian Civil War. A study of a world issue would focus on the causes of, the impacts of and attempts to resolve the issue.\n\nAll schools in Scotland follow the 3-18 Curriculum for Excellence. Modern Studies is not offered as a discrete subject at primary school level, rather, it is delivered within the integrated Social Studies curricular area (which also encompasses history and geography themes). In the early, first and second stages (P1-P7); pupils are introduced to social studies key themes and are encouraged to develop analytical and evaluative skills.\n\nEach school has the freedom to develop a course to suit the needs and interests of both pupils and teachers within the parameters of the Social Studies Experiences and Outcomes.\n\nModern Studies is offered at National 3, 4 & 5 levels and at Higher and Advanced Higher. There is scope for a great deal of personalisation and choice across the NQ levels within the Course Assessment Specification. There are three areas of study and within these areas, teachers have the opportunity to teach a number of combinations of topic; these are:\nAt Advanced Higher level, there is a greater emphasis on depth of knowledge and so, one area of study is chosen from: Political Issues OR Law and Order OR Social Inequality.\n\nAt each level above National 3, there also exists the requirement for pupils to complete an independent research project under the supervision of their teacher. This project makes up some of the final overall award.\n\nModern Studies does not exist as a separate subject at University level though it is a sound basis for further study of a range of subjects from which Modern Studies is composed, such as Crime and the Law, Politics, International Relations, Sociology, Criminology, Economics, Social Policy and Public Policy.\n\nEducation in Scotland\n\n"}
{"id": "32412360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32412360", "title": "Moonlighter Presents", "text": "Moonlighter Presents\n\nMoonlighter Presents is a lecture series based in Brooklyn, New York dedicated to non-expertise and the art of public speaking. Founded in September 2010, the series evolved as a reaction to the increased emphasis on professionalization in academia and the art world. Event organizers invite scholars and professionals to address topics outside their fields of expertise or consider their work from unusual perspectives. There are no topics or themes. Participants are free to invent roles for themselves and to tamper with traditional lecture formatting. Lectures have, for the most part, been held in an old funeral home in Williamsburg. They have also taken place in other non-traditional speaking venues, such as a former Catholic high school in Soho, a bar in Greenpoint, and a corporate office space in Manhattan.\n\nThe series has received wide and positive support from the \"New York Times\", \"Time Out\", \"Bookforum\" and \"Bustler\". Caitlin Blanchfield, writing for \"Urban Omnibus\", highlighted the uniqueness of the series' anti-curatorial platform:\nThe series is principally organized by Stephanie DeGooyer and Justin Martin. Previous speakers have included: Bjarke Ingels, Anthony Graves, Peter Coviello, Alexander Nagel, Myranda Gilles, Emily Votruba, Cecily Swanson, Kate Perkins, Ian Balfour, Sukjong Hong, Maegan Magathan, Dan Fox, Molly Kleinmen, Sam Frank, Tyler Rowland, Seppe Kuehn, and Daniel Denvir, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "29291482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29291482", "title": "Najla Jabor", "text": "Najla Jabor\n\nMaia de Carvalho Najla Jabor (born 25 September 1915, d. 9 Mar 2001) was a Brazilian conductor and composer. She composed concerti and symphonic works, but is best known for sacred songs. She was born and died in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n\nSelected works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2571012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2571012", "title": "National Dark-Sky Week", "text": "National Dark-Sky Week\n\nNational Dark-Sky Week (NDSW), held during the week of the new moon in April, is a week during which people worldwide turn out their lights in order to observe the beauty of the night sky without light pollution. This event was founded in 2003 by high school student Jennifer Barlow of Midlothian, Virginia and its popularity and participation increases every year. It has been endorsed by the International Dark-Sky Association (IDA), the American Astronomical Society (AAS), the Astronomical League, and \"Sky & Telescope\" (\"S&T\").\n\nThe goals of the event are to:\n\nThis event always occurs in April, during the week of the new moon so that the sky can be as dark as possible for optimum viewing conditions.\n\nJennifer Barlow states, \"The night sky is a gift of such tremendous beauty that should not be hidden under a blanket of wasted light. It should be visible so that future generations do not lose touch with the wonder of our universe.\" Barlow explains, \"It is my wish that people see the night sky in all of its glory, without excess light in the sky as our ancestors saw it hundreds of years ago.\"\n\nWilling participants in this project turn off all unnecessary lighting indoors and outdoors sources in order to reduce light pollution of the night sky.\n\nThe International Dark-sky Association encourages light\nusers to take precautions against outdoor light pollution by:\n\n\nLight pollution is a broad term used to define excess artificial light that brightens the night sky. Types of light pollution which include:\n\nLight pollution is the adverse effects of artificial light.\n\nAffected parties of light pollution include:\n\nAstronomers:\n\nBy increasing the number of participants, the quality of viewing the sky and stars will be temporarily improved. This is a benefit to astronomers that are faced with light pollution issues such as light trespass and skyglow.\n\nNocturnal wildlife:<br>Several animal species have been documented to be affected by light pollution. The glare of street lights cause distraction to nocturnal birds in flight leading to bird crashes into sky scrapers and buildings. The use of light may also cause birds to reproduce or migrate too early. The feeding behavior of insects, bats, sea turtles, fish, replies reflect alterations by artificial light. Sea turtles mistake the glow of electric lights for the shimmer of the ocean, leading them to flock outside of their nest into hazardous areas.\n\nHuman circadian rhythm and sleep patterns:\n\nExposure to light during traditional sleeping hours have are\ndocumented to cause disruptions in the circadian rhythm that regulate human\nsleep cycles. Biologists have noted a decrease in the amount of melatonin, a natural hormone that regulates the Circadian rhythm, in humans that are exposed to light pollution of the night sky. In order to prevent major impact, biologists suggest to increase the amount of natural light exposure during the day and decrease the amount of electrical light consumed at night.\n\nGrowth patterns of plants and trees:\n\nThe growing pattern of trees have been disrupted and less adjusted to seasonal\nchanges in weather and light exposure.\n\nWaste of economic resources:\n\nLeaving lights on that are not in use can lead to the waste of economic cost expenditures. Conservation and efficiency is necessary for environmental responsibility. The invention of LED lights, dimmers, motion sensors and times have reduced the amount of energy used.\n\nThe best way to take action to promote dark skies is to get involved in local government. There are templates for light ordinances that can legally ban the use of harmful lights and limit commercial lighting to a specific curfew. Currently, there are no nationwide standards regarding light pollution. However, select cities across the United States and Canada are taking initiative to facilitate dark sky cities in order to reduce light pollution and view the night sky within city limits.\n\n"}
{"id": "50561111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50561111", "title": "National Simultaneous Storytime", "text": "National Simultaneous Storytime\n\nNational Simultaneous Storytime is an annual event held since 2000 by the Australian Library and Information Association. Every year a picture book, by an Australian children's author and illustrator is read simultaneously in libraries, schools, pre-schools, childcare centres, family homes and bookshops around Australia, as part of Australia's Library and Information Week. In 2018 over 1,062,230 participants at over 8,255 locations across Australia took part in National Simultaneous Storytime.\n\nThe idea for a national simultaneous event followed a successful Statewide Storytime programme in Victoria in 2000. From 2002 – 2007 NSS took place during National Literacy and Numeracy Week in September. In 2008 it returned to being celebrated on the Wednesday of Australia's Library and Information Week at the end of May. In 2015 over 500,000 children at over 3,100 locations across Australia took part in National Simultaneous Storytime.\n\nThis table lists the titles, authors and publishers of the selected picture book for each year of National Simultaneous Storytime.\nOfficial Website\n"}
{"id": "14596339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14596339", "title": "Our Mr. Sun", "text": "Our Mr. Sun\n\nOur Mr. Sun is a one-hour American 1956 television film in Technicolor written, produced, and directed by Frank Capra. It is a documentary that explains how the Sun works and how it also plays a huge part in human life. It was first televised by CBS in 1956.\n\nThe film starred Frank Baxter as \"Dr. Research\", and Eddie Albert as \"the writer\", the other recurring character in The Bell Laboratory Science Series. Marvin Miller voiced the animated sun. Sterling Holloway, who was uncredited, voiced an animated version of chlorophyll. The film marked the last project of Lionel Barrymore, who played the voice of Father Time. It was first shown on television two years after Barrymore's death.\n\n\"Our Mr. Sun\", and a companion film \"Hemo the Magnificent\" (about blood circulation), were popular favorites for showing in school science classrooms. The film is currently packaged on DVD with another Frank C. Baxter film \"The Strange Case of the Cosmic Rays (1957).\n\nThe film opens with Dr. Research (Dr. Frank C. Baxter) and the Writer (Eddie Albert) meeting Father Time (Lionel Barrymore) and Mr. Sun (Marvin Miller) who explain that time started a few billion years ago and that the Sun is a star. Mr. Sun explains that he was worshipped as various gods (Shamash, Mithra, Ra and Apollo) until Anaxagoras proclaimed the Sun was a very hot stone and not a god. Logic and reasoning were the beginning of the end of worshiping the Sun as algebra and the astrolabe were used to study the heavens.\n\nDr. Research explains that the Sun is 93 million miles away and its light takes 8 minutes to reach the earth. Light from the next closest star, Alpha Centauri, takes more than 4 years to get to us at a speed greater than 186,000 miles per second. The sun weighs the same as 330,000 earths and is 95% hydrogen and helium gas and not solid. The Sun is compressed by gravity so tightly that the gas at the center is more than 100 times heavier than water with a pressure of one billion tons per square inch while the surface is about one pound per square inch. The center is 30 million degrees Fahrenheit while the surface is only 10,000 degrees, but the corona is 1 million degrees Fahrenheit though nobody knows why, so scientists study the corona during each solar eclipse.\n\nDr. George Ellery Hale and Dr. Henri Deslandres both developed the spectroheliograph—independently—to study the Sun in different wavelengths of light related to specific atoms. Dr. Robert R. McMath of the McMath–Hulbert Observatory used a spectroheliograph to make time-lapse films of the prominences on the Sun. Using pictures from the Mount Wilson Observatory, and others, scientists have learned about sunspots first described by Galileo. Sunspots often appear in pairs and are about 7,000 degrees rather than the normal 10,000 degrees. The spots increase and decrease in a cycle of about 11.2 years. Studying sunspots has shown the equator rotates faster than the poles at around 25 and 1/3 days per rotation. Halfway between the equator and the poles takes about 27 and 1/2 days per rotation though nobody understands why.\nDr. Bernard Lyot developed the first coronagraph to study the Sun's corona. Improved coronagraphs are used at the High Altitude Observatory by Dr. Walter Roberts and at the Evans Solar Facility by Dr. J. W. Evans. Dr. Donald H. Menzel was the first to use the coronagraph in America. These coronagraphs are used to film structures on the Sun called prominences and spicules which show matter flowing on the surface in structures many times the size of the earth. Often matter appears from nowhere to flow down into a sunspot which is sometimes referred to as Coronal Rain. The largest recorded prominence was captured at the High Altitude Observatory in Colorado on June 4, 1946 as it left the Sun at 400,000 miles per hour.\n\nThe Sun is also studied in radio frequencies using radio astronomy. Dr. E. G. Bowen helped pioneer radio astronomy which showed that many places in outer space emit radio waves.\n\nWhen solar flares erupt from sunspots they emit ultraviolet radiation, which reach the earth in 8 minutes, and electrified fragments of atoms which take around 30 hours. These fragments of atoms are diverted by the earth's magnetic field, towards the North and South poles which causes the Aurora. Dr. C. W. Gartlein of Cornell University took some of the first motion pictures of the \"Aurora Borealis\". These solar flares cause disruption in electricity and radio communications because of disturbances of the ionosphere. Because of this, the Sun is monitored from 22 stations around the world which send data to the Radio Storm Warning Service of the National Bureau of Standards to determine when a solar storm will reach the Earth.\n\nThe earth receives one billion dollars of solar energy from the Sun every second when the rate is $0.02 per kilowatt-hour. The earth receives only one two-billionth of the total energy output by the Sun, which is about 500,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 horsepower. The Sun generates this energy through thermonuclear reactions roughly equal to 10,000 hydrogen bombs going off every second and has been doing so for the last 4 billion years. Dr. Hans Bethe, in 1938, was the first to determine this fact. Every second, the sun converts 564 million tons of hydrogen into 560 million tons of helium with the remaining 4 million tons being converted into energy in the form of light, heat and radiation.\n\n\"Thermo the Magician\" enters to explain the carbon cycle whereby hydrogen atoms are converted into helium atoms by fusion reactions with carbon atoms. At 30 million degrees, one hydrogen and one carbon combine into nitrogen. Adding two hydrogens to the nitrogen creates oxygen. The oxygen combines with another hydrogen to create helium and carbon, and in the process releases energy. Dr. Research then mentions combining two hydrogen atoms directly into a helium atom in the proton-proton process.\n\nDr. Research continues, telling how science believes the Sun started as a loose cloud of hydrogen gas compressed by gravity and this compression raised the temperature until it reached 30 million degrees and started the thermonuclear reaction. The nuclear reactions expand the Sun and gravity compresses it until the two forces reach a balance. The Sun has only used small portion of its hydrogen and has about 98% of it left which will take about 50 to 100 billion years until it is gone and the Sun dies.\n\nScience is depending on the Sun for the solution to man's two biggest problems, the first problem being food. The population of the earth went from 500 million in 1650 to 2.5 billion in 1950. One out of every twenty human beings that ever existed, is currently alive today. Two out of every three people don't have enough to eat which is required for good health and 100 million new humans are born each year becoming a population explosion.\n\nFood is grown by the Sun through photosynthesis, which means \"putting together with light\". Ninety-nine percent of all food and fuel is created by the Sun through photosynthesis. Chlorophyll is the molecule responsible for photosynthesis though science isn't exactly sire how it works. They believe chlorophyll uses sunlight to combine carbon dioxide molecules with water molecules, along with salts, to create sugars and release oxygen. These sugars form the bulk of a plant including its fruit. Most of these plants are grown in the sea as phytoplankton, which is the food source of zooplankton, which are eaten by fish. All animals survive on food created by the Sun through photosynthesis; either directly by eating plants, or indirectly by eating animals that eat plants. The Sun provided the energy for photosynthesis through its light, which was created at the Sun's core. It takes this light 2000 years to make it from the core to the Sun's surface and another eight minutes from the Sun's surface to the earth.\n\nThe food problem is being studied by Dr. Hiroshi Tamiya of the Tokugawa Biological Institute in his research on chlorella, an algae consisting of carbohydrates, fats and 50% protein. Chlorella can produce about 10 times the edible material, per unit area, as a typical crop.\n\nThe second biggest problem man faces is that of fuel. In 1850, the average American used 400 horsepower-hours of fuel. By 1950, the average American used 10,000 horsepower-hours of fuel. It's estimated that by 1975 an average American will use 20,000 horsepower-hours of fuel. Solar energy will be a likely solution and research by Dr. Charles Greeley Abbot produced a solar powered engine. The French solar furnace at Mont-Louis is used for high-temperature research of metals. The Indian scientist Dr. S. Bhatnagar experimented with solar ovens for cooking food and Dr. Mária Telkes developed a home that used Solar heating exclusively.\n\nResearch is being conducted by Dr. Lawrence J. Heidt of MIT using sunlight along with perchloric acid to decompose water into hydrogen and oxygen so that it can be burned to produce energy. The waste product would be water that can be fed back into the system to create a continuous loop powered by solar energy. Dr. E. I. Rabinowitz developed a photogalvanic cell using thiamine and iron salts while working at MIT. Thermocouples and phosphorescent wallpaper are other possible solutions to certain energy needs. Atomic power plants and especially breeder reactors can also provide some energy needs. In the end though, solar power will be the only solution on a long-term scale; otherwise society will have to go back to a muscle-powered existence as it was when humans and animals provided the energy to run things.\n\nIn a slightly updated version of the film, the \"solar battery\" is discussed. Based on the work of scientists Daryl Chapin, Calvin Fuller, and Gerald Pearson at Bell Labs, this device can turn sunlight directly into electricity. A cartoon version of Dr. Research dressed as a pastry chef shows how the solar battery can be manufactured by \"cooking-up\" a wafer of silicon with a boron coating. (This became the predecessor of today's ubiquitous solar cells).\n\nThe film ends with Dr. Research and Father Time providing an overview. That human curiosity has helped drive scientific achievements and that it's important to ask questions of both science and religion.\n\nIn this first film of the series, there are very few on-screen credits. Eddie Albert, Frank Baxter and Marvin Miller are the only actors credited on-screen. Lionel Barrymore plays Father Time and the vast majority of the film focuses on these four actors.\n\nA number of the characters are animated and thus played by voice actors. Mr. Sun and Father time are both animated. Along with these two, Chloro Phyll (played by Sterling Holloway) and Thermo the Magician have the next biggest parts. Dawn is the last of the animated characters and is a very small part at the beginning of the film where she makes the introduction for Mr. Sun to tell his story.\n\nThere is one other on-screen part going to a man throwing his shoe at a radio when the broadcast is interrupted by sunspots. Three other parts in this segment are for the man's wife, radio announcer Sam Johnson and the radio host that introduces him. These last three are voice only parts and not seen on-screen.\n\nThe smallest part in the film is Jim, the technician operating the film projector, and is a voice only part with a single line, \"Coming up\", in response to Dr. Research's request for focus of the film image during the opening sequence of the movie.\n\n\n\"Our Mr. Sun\" is the first of nine films in the Bell science series. Production took place over a period of four years and was initiated at the behest of N. W. Ayer & Son, who were AT&T's advertising agency at the time. Working titles for the film included \"The Sun\" and \"Horizons Unlimited\" with \"Our Mr. Sun\" eventually becoming the title. A number of well-known scientists provided technical advice during the production of the film, which was later approved by a \"Scientific Advisory\nBoard\".\n\nAlthough color television was introduced in 1953, most television content was still in black and white and the fact that \"Our Mr. Sun\" was produced in color was noted at the time by \"The Boston Globe\".\n\n\"Our Mr. Sun\" was first broadcast on CBS, during primetime, on November 19, 1956. It was later released—free of charge—as a 16 mm print to educational institutions and libraries. As a result, the film was often shown in school classrooms around the United States.\n\nDecades later, in the 1980s, the film was released to the home video market on VHS tapes. In 2003, the film was released, along with The Strange Case of the Cosmic Rays, in DVD format by \"Image Entertainment\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36118351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36118351", "title": "Payment by Results", "text": "Payment by Results\n\nPayment by Results (PbR) is a type of public policy instrument whereby payments are contingent on the independent verification of results. It is being actively promoted by a number of governments for more effective implementation of domestic policy. \n\nThere is also increasing interest in the field of international development, where PBR is often referred to either as 'results-based aid' (where the funding relationship is between a donor and a recipient country) or 'results-based financing' (where the funding relationship is between a developing country government or a development agency, and public or private sector providers). There are also a number of other terms in use which can often lead to confusion and a lack of clarity.\n\nPbR instruments have three key features:\n\nThere are many cases of PbR models being used to achieve domestic policy goals, in particular the delivery of social or community services, with payments linked to the results a provider achieves, rather than its inputs and processes. The use of PbR models is often promoted as a way to drive service improvements and achieve increased value for money by aligning incentives to desired outcomes.\n\nIn practice, a diverse range of PbR models have been implemented by Governments, varying by the degree to which: \n\n\nThe purest form of PbR is Payment by Outcomes, which seeks to maximise payments linked to outcomes. This is where the commissioner (central or local Government) is fully able to contract in terms of the outcomes it wants and to transfer the financial risk of non-delivery to providers. However, commissioners may face a number of challenges that may make a pure Payment by Outcomes approach either impractical or sub-optimal in terms of achieving the aims of PbR models. These challenges largely stem from commissioners’ ability to manage different risks and responsibilities, especially in relation to their understanding of desired outcomes and their measurement. \n\nChallenges can include outcomes only being delivered beyond the provider or investor’s return horizon, meaning an earlier payment or proxy outcome must be used; having sufficient confidence that the cash savings used to fund the payment of outcomes will ultimately be realised (e.g. that a reduction in re-offending translates to a reduction in prison capacity); finding a contractual solution that ensures transactional costs are reasonable; and determining how far the delivery of outcomes is attributable to the actual intervention rather than other services or background factors. Commissioners may also find providers are reluctant to accept all of the delivery risk (e.g. where there is a dependency on future Government actions or policies) or where Government cannot truly transfer all of the delivery risk.\n\nThere are no known cases where all Government services are commissioned out. Furthermore, PbR will not always be the optimal contracting model, especially where in-house delivery is more appropriate, or where greater control is required over the service to be delivered.\n\nPayment by results was introduced in the management of British schools in June 1862. National funding for individual schools, eventually rising to about half, depended in part on the outcomes of examinations of the pupils conducted by school inspectors. The system was deeply unpopular with teachers and led to increased unionisation. The system was abandoned in 1890.\n\nA national tariff was introduced to the British NHS in 1990 and is still in operation in the English NHS. It is now prescribed in the National Health Service Commissioning Board and Clinical Commissioning Groups (Responsibilities and Standing Rules) Regulations 2012. Clinical Commissioning Groups, and NHS England are required to enter into standard “Payment by Results” contracts with providers. Such a contract between an NHS commissioner and a hospital trust is compulsory for all services provided to NHS patients. NHS Improvement is required by section 116 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 to produce a National Tariff, which trusts must be paid for all the specified services. There is provision for an increase to the tariff. University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust was the first, and so far only one, in July 2015, to get an increase for its services agreed by Monitor (NHS) because of its \"increased costs associated with this trust running health services across multiple sites in rural locations\". It is paid more per episode for accident and emergency, surgery, trauma and orthopaedics, paediatrics, women’s health, and non-elective medical conditions. This is expected to increase the trust's income by more than £20 million per year.\n\nA range of different instruments in the field of international development can be characterized as Payment by Results, many of which seek to provide incentives for the achievement of both outcomes and outputs by developing country governments, public agencies, commercial operators and civil society organizations. By linking disbursement to results PBR is an alternative to the majority official development assistance (ODA), which is generally provided as grants, loans and guarantees, and is therefore disbursed in advance of delivery.\n\nProponents of PbR argue that this approach is more likely to deliver the desired development objective, with less scope for waste and greater freedom and incentive for the beneficiary to innovate or achieve the desired objective at least cost. Possible criticisms include the need for recipients to obtain pre-financing, the risk of unintended consequences, higher monitoring and verification costs, and the difficulty of setting the incentive at the optimum level (thereby leading to the risk of rent-seeking behavior).\n\nResults-based aid is concerned with incentivizing national-level outcomes and involves the linking of ODA (e.g. from bilateral or multilateral development agencies to developing country governments) to verifiable results, such as performance against one or more outcome indicators, or the successful implementation of a government program. Possible outcomes might include number of children passing an exam, an improvement in the infant mortality rate, or the number of people with a defined improvement in access to energy. \n\nResults-based financing is concerned with the delivery of national or sub-national outputs, and could be used by developing country governments (national or local), public agencies, or development agencies as incentive for the provision of goods or services, create or expand markets, or stimulate innovation. Possible target outputs might include the number of vaccines administered, the number of teachers that are trained, the number of new electricity connections that are provided in a defined area. Results-based financing includes approaches such as Output-Based Aid (OBA).\n\nExisting examples of PbR programs include the Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid and Results-Based Financing for Health. However, interest in PBR in the international development sector is growing. The UK Department for International Development is piloting Cash on Delivery Aid (a form of results-based aid) and results-based financing programs in a number of countries, the World Bank has recently launched Program-for-Results (PforR), a new results-based lending instrument, and the EU is exploring results-based approaches for the aid component of the multi-annual financial framework from 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "209532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209532", "title": "QED manifesto", "text": "QED manifesto\n\nThe QED manifesto was a proposal for a computer-based database of all mathematical knowledge, strictly formalized and with all proofs having been checked automatically. (Q.E.D. means in Latin, meaning \"which was to be demonstrated.\") \n\nThe idea for the project arose in 1993, mainly under the impetus of Robert Boyer. The goals of the project, tentatively named \"QED project\" or \"project QED\", were outlined in the QED manifesto, a document first published in 1994, with input from several researchers. Explicit authorship was deliberately avoided. A dedicated mailing list was created, and two scientific conferences on QED took place, the first one in 1994 at Argonne National Laboratories and the second in 1995 in Warsaw organized by the Mizar group.\n\nThe project seems to have died in 1996, never having produced more than discussions and plans. In a 2007 paper, Freek Wiedijk identifies two reasons for the failure of the project. In order of importance:\n\nNonetheless, QED-style projects are regularly proposed, and the Mizar library has successfully formalized a large portion of undergraduate mathematics. it is the largest such library. Another such project is the Metamath proof database.\n\nIn 2014 the Twenty years of the QED Manifesto workshop was organized as part of the Vienna Summer of Logic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54118833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54118833", "title": "RMIT School of Science", "text": "RMIT School of Science\n\nThe RMIT (Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology) School of Science is an Australian tertiary education school within the College of Science Engineering and Health of RMIT University. It was created in 2016 from the former schools of Applied Sciences, Computer Science and Information Technology, and Mathematical and Geospatial Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28096558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28096558", "title": "Rah (slang)", "text": "Rah (slang)\n\nRah is a pejorative term referring to a stereotypical affluent young upper class or upper-middle class person (male or female) in the United Kingdom. The characteristics of a rah are similar to those of the Sloane Ranger stereotype also recognised in the UK, though a rah is generally younger, typically around university age (18–25). An important feature of the rah stereotype is the enjoyment of an affluent/party lifestyle with excessive financial assistance from their parents.\n\nThe term is possibly an onomatopoeic reference to how those fitting the stereotype are perceived to talk, with the word 'rah' being associated with upper-middle class affluence since at least the early 1980s.\n\nRahs stereotypically study at prestigious institutions such as Russell Group universities, having previously attended a private boarding or day school, or sometimes a grammar school or faith school in an affluent area. Another stereotype is that rahs have taken a gap year, usually in Africa, South America, or South East Asia.\n\nCertain clothing is often associated with rahs; mid-market names such as Jack Wills are common. For girls, pashminas, jodhpurs, Ugg boots and cable-knit jumpers combined with scruffy hair arranged in a bun or drastic side partings are common. Boys are stereotyped with chinos, board shorts, boat shoes, and sports team clothing. Gilets, quilted jackets, jogging bottoms, sunglasses, and flip-flops are common for both sexes. In colder seasons, country attire and outdoor wear is popular, especially brands such as Hunter Boot and J. Barbour & Sons.\n\nRugby union is popular for male rahs. Other sports such as skiing, sailing, rowing, cricket, tennis, Rugby and Eton Fives, canoeing, fencing, lacrosse, polo, shooting and yachting are also popular.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "527699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=527699", "title": "RollerCoaster Tycoon", "text": "RollerCoaster Tycoon\n\nRollerCoaster Tycoon is a series of simulation video games about building and managing an amusement park. Each game in the series challenges players with open-ended amusement park management and development, and allowing players to construct and customize their own unique roller coasters and other thrill rides.\n\nThe first game was created by Scottish programmer Chris Sawyer, with assistance from various leading figures from the real-world roller coaster and theme park industry. The rest of the series contains three other main games, expansion packs, a number of ports, and a mobile installment. The most recent installment, \"RollerCoaster Tycoon World\", was released in November 2016.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon\" was released for Microsoft Windows on 31 March 1999 and was later ported to the Xbox game console. The game was developed by Chris Sawyer and published by Hasbro Interactive.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon\" received two expansion packs: \"Added Attractions\" (released in the U.S. as \"Corkscrew Follies\") in 1999, and \"Loopy Landscapes\" in 2000. Two special editions were released: \"RollerCoaster Tycoon Gold\"/\"Totally RollerCoaster\" in 2002, which contained the original game, \"Corkscrew Follies\", and \"Loopy Landscapes\"; and \"RollerCoaster Tycoon Deluxe\" in 2003, which contained the content in \"Gold\" plus more designs for the different customizable rides. The game was released on Xbox on 23 March 2003.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon 2\" was released on 15 October 2002. The game was developed by Chris Sawyer and published by Infogrames.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon 2\" has two official expansion packs: \"Wacky Worlds\" and \"Time Twister\", both released in 2003. The \"Combo Park Pack\" edition contains the original game and the \"Wacky Worlds\" expansion. The \"Triple Thrill Pack\" contains the original game and both expansions.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3\" was released on 26 October 2004 in North America. Although the core features of \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3\" are based on the previous games, Chris Sawyer, the developer of the first two games, acted only as a consultant. The game was developed by Frontier Developments instead, and published and advertised by Atari featuring a completely different structure.\n\nTwo expansion packs for \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3\" were released - \"Soaked!\" and \"Wild!\". A bundle, \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 Gold\", was also released, including the original game and the \"Soaked!\" expansion pack; this was followed by \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 Platinum\" (Deluxe for the EU version of the game), including both expansion packs and the original game. \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 Platinum\" was released for Windows and Mac OS X.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon World\" was developed by Nvizzio Creations for Atari and released on 16 November 2016. The installment is different from previous games in that players build coasters with a spline-based system. It also introduced a new \"Architect mode\" and \"safety-rating\" options when building coasters. The game is also the first to incorporate the Steam Workshop.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3D\" was released on 16 October 2012. It was developed by n-Space for the Nintendo 3DS. While using many assets and engine content from \"Rollercoaster Tycoon 3\", this game reverted to an isometric view and removed features such as adding scenery and pools due to the limitations of the Nintendo 3DS.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon 4 Mobile\" was released on 10 April 2014. The game was initially available for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices. The game was later released for Android devices (OS 4.0.3 and higher) on 18 October 2014. The game was developed by On5 Games without Chris Sawyer's input (other than licensing). The game returns to the isometric view used in the first two games. The game is built on the freemium model with social media integration.\n\nThis installment was universally panned and was criticized due to Chris Sawyer's absence in the making of the game, the heavy use of microtransactions and wait times, which fans state \"has ruined the [\"RollerCoaster Tycoon\"] experience.\"\n\nReleased in August 2015, \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3: Mobile\" is an iOS version of \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3\", released by Frontier and is almost an exact clone of the original game (tutorial mode, original 18 scenarios for career, and a sandbox).\n\nOn 22 December 2016 a modified port of both \"RollerCoaster Tycoon\" and \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 2\" was released for iOS and Android, featuring a single price point for the majority of content and in-app purchase for Expansion Pack content (primarily the two expansion packs from \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 2\", and an editor pack that allows users to create custom scenario and import and export these to the Windows version of \"Roller Coaster Tycoon 2\", and replicating the majority of the gameplay from the original games in the series.\n\nFirst released for iOS devices in December 2016, \"RollerCoaster Tycoon Touch\" is a free-to-play mobile port of \"RollerCoaster Tycoon World\". Like \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 4\", it contains in-app purchases and wait times, but expands upon the social media integration. An Android version was released in April 2017. In October 2017, items based on the Barbie doll brand were added to the game.\n\n\"RollerCoaster Tycoon Adventures\" is a Nintendo Switch adaption of the \"RollerCoaster Tycoon Touch\" game, expected for release in Europe on November 29, 2018 and in North America on December 13, 2018.\n\nIn January 2018, Atari Game Partners announced it was seeking equity crowdfunding via the StartEngine platform in order to develop a new \"RollerCoaster Tycoon\" game for the Nintendo Switch. In July 2018, Atari announced that the game will be titled \"RollerCoaster Tycoon Adventures\" and is scheduled for release in Autumn 2018.\n\nA game designed for use with the PlayStation VR platform was announced and released in 2018 titles \" RollerCoaster Tycoon Joyride\", but it was pulled from online stores shortly after release.\n\nThe player is given control over an amusement park and is tasked with reaching particular goals, such as improving the park's value, attracting more guests, or getting a higher park rating. Some scenarios in the game provide an empty plot of land and allow the player to build a park from scratch, while others provide a ready-built park which usually suffers from deterioration, bad planning, or underdevelopment. The player must wisely invest the limited amount of money provided.\n\nMost scenarios require that the goals be achieved for a specific in-game date, otherwise the scenario is not 'complete'. Completion of scenarios is a prerequisite for unlocking further scenarios in the first \"RollerCoaster Tycoon\" game. In \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 2\", all the scenarios are available for play and the player can complete them in random order.\n\nThe player is responsible for building out the park such as raising or lowering terrain, laying out footpaths, adding decorative elements, installing food, restroom, and trash facilities, and building out the rides and attractions. Many of the rides that can be built are roller coasters or variations on that, such as log flumes, water slides and go-kart tracks. The player can build these out with hills, drops, curves, and other features (such as loop-the-loops for steel roller coasters), limited only by cost and the geography of the park and other nearby attractions. Stationary rides, such as Ferris wheels, merry-go-rounds, and bumper cars can also be placed. Rides are ranked on scales of excitement, intensity, and nausea, all which influence which park guests will ride those attractions and how they will behave afterward. The player can set the prices for park admission rides and guest amenities. The player is also responsible for hiring park staff to maintain the rides, keep the park clean, and entertain the guests. Players may also invest in 'research', which unlocks new rides and improvements as time goes on, though it costs money to continue research. Research in a particular area is disabled when all attractions in that category are researched.\n\nThe guests, who are integral to the gameplay, are treated as separate entities which can each have particular characteristics and be tracked by the player around the park. The game keeps track of how much money they have, what they are carrying, their thoughts, and what their current needs are (thirst, hunger, etc.). Each guest also has some unique features such as preferring gentle rides over roller coasters, and their nausea tolerance. Some scenarios are even biased towards a specific guest demographic and require the player to take this into account in designing the park. In \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3\", the player can create their own guest groups to visit their parks.\n\nSequels have continually upgraded the number of rides and amount of customization available to the player.\n\nThe franchise has also spawned a board game and a pinball machine by Stern, both released in 2002, and a series of gamebooks released in 2002 and 2003.\n\nIn May 2010, it was reported that Sony Pictures Animation was to develop a film adaptation of the series.\n"}
{"id": "45228334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45228334", "title": "SHALVA", "text": "SHALVA\n\nShalva (The Israel Association for Care and Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities) (Hebrew: שַׁלְוָה) is a registered non-profit organization that supports and empowers individuals with disabilities and their families in Israel. The organization works with a wide range of individuals with disabilities: mental retardation, developmental delays, learning disabilities, attention deficit disorders, the Autism spectrum, special needs with recognized handicaps (children with minor to severe retardation, Down syndrome, Fragile X syndrome), and more.\n\nFounded by Kalman Samuels in 1990, the organization offers a range of programs to approximately 2000 individuals with disabilities including infants, children, and youth and their families. Non-denominational and free of charge, Shalva offers a range of therapies, inclusive educational frameworks, recreational programs, vocational training, respite and family support. Shalva advocates for the inclusion of persons with disabilities through employment programs, community initiatives, and disability research. Shalva collaborates with communities worldwide as well as government, academic, and cultural institutions to pioneer innovative therapy solutions around the common goal of improving the lives of people with disabilities and promoting their inclusion in society. The organization is supported by a wide network of volunteers from the broader community as well as National Service volunteers. \n\nShalva's programs have been distinguished by several awards, among them: the President of Israel Prize for Excellence (1994); the Mayor of Jerusalem Award for Exceptional Service (1999); the Shalem Fund Award for “Israel’s most unique program for the mentally challenged” (2004); the Knesset Speaker’s Quality of Life Prize for Leadership and Public Excellence (2005); the Ruderman Foundation Prize for the integration of children with special needs (2012); and Consultant Status for the United Nations Economic and Social Council (2018). The organization’s management standards are recognized by the ISO 9001/2001 certification and Midot’s Seal for Outstanding Eﬀectiveness. \nAs parents of a child with disabilities, Kalman and Malki Samuels understood the need for the founding of an organization that would ease the burdens of families of children with disabilities. Their son, Yossi Samuels, was born a healthy child in 1977 however, after receiving a faulty DPT vaccination, he was rendered blind, deaf, and hyperactive. He was isolated in his own world without a method of communication. Based on their personal experience with the day-to-day challenges of raising a family and the constant need to care for a child with special needs, they decided to establish Shalva in 1990.\n\nThe first center was established in a private apartment in the Har Nof neighborhood in Jerusalem and catered to a few dozen local children. As a greater need emerged, the organization bought an additional facility on an adjacent street and began expanding its programs; the building was later called ”Beit Nachshon” in memory of Nachshon Wachsman who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in 1994. Over the years, programs with innovative therapies were developed for infants, and the organization began to support research in various subjects in its field. Today, Shalva's programs are housed in the Shalva National Center in the Bayit Vegan near the Shaare Zedek Medical Center. \n\nConstruction of the Shalva National Center began in 2008, neighboring the Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem. The 220,000 sq.ft center opened its doors on September 2016 and has disability accessible facilities such as an auditorium, sports center, therapeutic and recreational swimming pools, fitness rooms, inclusive playgrounds and more.\n"}
{"id": "54000872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54000872", "title": "School-related gender-based violence", "text": "School-related gender-based violence\n\nSchool-related gender-based violence (SRGBV) can be defined as acts or threats of sexual, physical or psychological violence happening in and around schools. This type of violence is due to gender norms and stereotypes. It can include verbal abuse, bullying, sexual abuse, harassment and other types of violence. SRGBV is widely spread around the world and is common in many societies. Millions of children and families suffer from this type of violence. Incidents related to SRGBV has been reported in all countries and regions of the world.\n\nMany governments and organizations around the world are working towards getting reliable information regarding SRGBV, as it has been proved to be an urgent matter that should be solved. Based on all the data related to SRGBV around the world collected, it is important to try to find solutions in order to tackle this problematic.\n\nFor instance, UNICEF's report \"Hidden in Plain Sight\" included the largest collection of data relating to violence against children. As aforementioned, this report proofs how physical and sexual abuse takes place at schools. The most common types of abuse include:\n\nSocial beliefs influence gender relations in all countries of the world. In this sense, the root of violence against children depends on social construction and how the populations behave vis-a-vis gender-related issues. Some of the root issues include:\n\nBeing exposed or having experienced SRGBV can have critical impacts on children's development. Especially in terms of mental and physical well-being, including children's health (HIV and early pregnancy). It has been demonstrated that victims of violence are more likely to accept aggressive types of behaviors or be violent themselves after suffering from violence. This creates a vicious circle in which violence becomes wrongly acceptable. SRGBV can have negative and long-term consequences for the future of young people, as it forges their adult personalities.\n\n\n\n\nAddressing SRGBV raises important challenges and is very complex. The concept is not understood by many and is considered sensitive for many. Actors from the education sector, governments and policy-makers and individuals attending schools face several challenges regarding SRGBV. These include:\n\nReporting on SRGBV situations around the world has become especially difficult since social and cultural norms do not promote this practice. Moreover, implicitly they discourage it. Many actors from society including teachers; school directors and policy-makers still avoid talking to children openly about gender; violence and sex. They fear promoting sensitive materials to children because of the taboo present in society. Work, time and patience are required to overcome set-ideas promoted by parents within their communities. It is necessary to start real and honest dialogues with children in order to create guaranty real and long-lasting results.\n\nGender inequalities refer to the devaluation and discrimination of women an girls in a society. This results on giving more power to men and boys, while demeaning women and girls. For instance, a study in Ethiopia highlighted that even though 93 per cent of male students recognized violence against girls to be illegal, about 33 per cent thought it is acceptable for male students to have what they want, and appeal to their charm or force to get. 21 per cent recognized behaving this way.\n\nCapacity constraints in education systems, are also responsible for slowing down the progress related to preventing SRGBV. One of the most important challenges is the training of teachers with the tools and sensitivity to teach curriculum against violence and promote gender equality. In order for real change to happen, it is necessary to introduce these new tools slowly, analyzing who is the best to communicate these elements and what skills and knowledge are needed. What's more, having enough resources will be very important to implement change.\n\nAnother factor that limits the progress related to stopping SRGBV is weak coordination and unreliable monitoring mechanisms. These render difficult the collaboration between ministries of education, police, social services, child protection and more. This is important because if this collaboration is not fluent, it will be difficult to stop SRGBV. A renewal in the organization's cultural landscape will be needed to overcome challenges, including bureaucracy that disrupts the flow of knowledge sharing.\n\nLimited access to quality services, including child protection an social services among others (often absent) are due to the quality of services. This particularly concerns fragile communities.\n\nIn the majority of countries, there is currently no legislation that protects children from violence at school, meaning not much can be done when it happens. However, it is the case that some countries have recently introduced legislations specifically for schools. This said, legislation related aspects have become a real challenge. As to stop SRGBV, perpetrators must be punished.\n\nEmerging, but limited, evidence base on what works, although this is an area that is receiving increasing attention. The few evaluations of SRGBV interventions that currently exist vary greatly in methodology, rigour, scale and scope. This makes it difficult to identify best practice and draw conclusions about effective strategies that can be transferred to other settings. There is also a growing body of promising practices and existing knowledge that has not yet been fully documented.\n\nAs previously mentioned, many challenges slow down the reporting and impact on the quality of providing reliable data regarding certain types of violence. This implies data is incomplete in contexts such as sexual orientation, race/ethnicity, and disability among others. This is important as all of these contexts are important to fight against SRGBV. According to a recent study by USAID, to tackle SRGBV it is necessary to rely on large-scale studies which include findings that can be compared across countries; studies showing different forms of SRGBV, connections between behavior change and a discrepancy between research and practice. It is necessary to invest in strong data management system tools which divide data and will make it easier for people to analyze it.\n\nGovernments should demonstrate leadership at the national level by:\n\nIn order to render schools safer, it is important to adopt whole-school approaches that will create better environments for children. Also different types of stakeholders at the school level should become engaged at local communities and government. There are three specific strategies:\n\nAt the education sector level, students should be taught in a certain way and certain topics. In order to prevent SRGBV, it is important to: \n\n\nSRGBV being a very complex issue, it is necessary to involve many and several types of stakeholders. Thus it is about creating partnerships in order to tackle SRGBV:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1051494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1051494", "title": "School Certificate", "text": "School Certificate\n\nThe School Certificate was a qualification issued by the Board of Studies, New South Wales, typically at the end of Year 10. The successful completion of the School Certificate was a requirement for completion of the Higher School Certificate. The School Certificate was issued for the last time in 2011. It has been replaced with the RoSA (Record of School Achievement)\n\nTo receive the School Certificate, students were required to sit for the School Certificate tests. There were five tests:\n\nIn 2011, the School Certificate commenced from Monday, 7 November to Wednesday, 9 November.\n\nEach student was required to study English, Mathematics, Science, History, Geography and Australian Civics and Citizenship and Personal Development, Health and Physical Education (PD/H/PE) every year in Years 7-10. Each course was also supposed to include a degree of computer use, so students became familiar with that technology.\n\nAt some time during Years 7-10 students must have studied courses in Creative Arts (Visual Arts and Music), Technology and Applied Studies and a Language Other Than English.\n\nThe student may also have completed a number of additional studies (electives). These additional studies were required to be completed in a number of hours, as defined by the Board of Studies. A student had a choice of these additional studies according to the courses which were available at their school. For a complete list see here.\n\nIn his 1997 report \"Shaping their future\", Professor Barry McGaw was highly critical of the School Certificate. His report noted several deficiencies in the School Certificate, including:\n\n\nProfessor McGaw recommended that the School Certificate be abolished and replaced, for students leaving school, with a statement of achievement which would include each student’s results on statewide tests in literacy and numeracy as well as school-based results in all courses completed in Year 10.\n\nDespite Professor McGaw's recommendations, the New South Wales government remained committed to the School Certificate, though major changes were made to its structure and timing in order to address some of the concerns listed above.\n\nThe disparity between the recommendations of the McGaw report and the actions taken by the New South Wales government led to frequent rumours and press reports of the ultimate abolition of the School Certificate. However, the NSW Government remained committed to the School Certificate for several years. In 2010, the New South Wales Government asked the Board of Studies to review the School Certificate as part of the changes to the school leaving age in New South Wales and also the development of a national curriculum. The NSW Government announced the abolition of the School Certificate after 2011, with students in year 10 that year being the final cohort to sit the external examinations and receive the qualification.\n\n"}
{"id": "1469174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1469174", "title": "School nursing", "text": "School nursing\n\nSchool nursing, a specialized practice of public health nursing, protects and promotes student health, facilitates normal development, and advances academic success. School nurses, grounded in ethical and evidence-based practice, are the leaders that bridge health care and education, provide care coordination, advocate for quality student-centered care, and collaborate to design systems that allow individuals and communities to develop their full potentials.\n\nAccording to the National Association of School Nurses, there are approximately 61,232-73,697 Registered Nurses (RNs) working in elementary and secondary schools (K-12) in the United States depending on the survey sample ( - need these references: HRSA,2010; ACS, 2013), which represents between 2.1-2.8% of Registered Nurses in the United States. According to the American Federation of Teachers, there are approximately 45,000 school nurses employed in the United States. School nurses are often the only health professional serving students in an educational setting.\n\n\nIn 1892 Amy Hughes was working in Bloomsbury Square as the Superintendent of Queen's Nurses. She was asked to visit a local elementary school to advise about nutrition. Hughes was surprised to find that the students were suffering with minor ailments that was contributing to school days lost to sickness. Hughes would in time arrange for Queen's nurses to visit schools. She is credited with being the first School Nurse in the UK.\n\nThe statutory provision of school nursing in all schools in the UK arose out of the Boer War. A large proportion of army volunteers - between 40% and 60% - had been found to be medically unfit for service, so in 1903, the government set up the Interdepartmental Committee on Physical Deterioration to study the causes. In 1904 the Committee reported back, saying that there was no general health problem, but treatable conditions had been left untreated, meaning that the conditions had worsened to they extent that they became debilitating. The Committee recommended that:\n\nThe government reacted first by passing the 1906 Provision of School Meals Act, which allowed (but did not compel) local authorities to provide school meals, at no cost to the poor, and to raise a tax to pay for this. Then the 1907 Education Act was passed, which established a team of school nurses at every local authority. This was accompanied by the 1907 Medical Inspections Act, which required local authorities to ensure that each child received a total of at least 3 medical inspections during their time at school. Although the Act established clinics within schools to treat anything discovered, parents were expected to pay for the treatment themselves; after 1912 the government made small contributions towards the cost.\n\nIn modern times, school nurses are comparable to health visitors, but specialise in a school setting, rather than a domestic one. As such they normally take over public health responsibilities for children, from health visitors, once the children are over 5 and start attending school. Like health visitors, they monitor child development, and deliver certain vaccination programmes, as well as instigating the child safeguarding process when they suspect a child is being abused or neglected. Given their physical setting, they are also often called upon to provide first aid, and it is for this that they are most familiar to children.\n\nIn the mid to late 20th century, school nurses were often familiar to children as the \"nit nurse\" - a specialist nurse who inspects children's head hair for lice, and lice-eggs (colloquially known as \"nits\"). In 1947, 8% of school children suffered from lice infections, but the use of \"nit nurse\"s had managed to reduce that to 3% within a decade. Skin infections of any kind, which were once common, had become a rare phenomena by the end of the century, except those which afflict the soles of the feet. Under the Blair Ministry, \"nit nursing\" came to be seen as not being clinically cost-effective, and nit nursing was gradually withdrawn from schools.\n\nFollowing the Cameron Ministry's reorganisation of the National Health Service, School Nurses fall under the general aegis of Public Health England, but are locally commissioned by local authorities, who now hold local responsibility for public health. To become qualified Registered School Nurses, ordinary nurses undertake additional training as Specialist Community Public Health Practitioners. They are regulated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57764875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57764875", "title": "Secondary Industrial School", "text": "Secondary Industrial School\n\nThe Secondary Industrial School in Columbus, Georgia is a historic school built in 1906. It was the first secondary-level industrial/vocational school in the United States: it \"has been called the nation's first public-supported, coeducational industrial high school.\" Located at 1112 29th St., the building was designed by J.W. Golucke & Co. in Beaux Arts style. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nIt has also been known as S.I.S., as Columbus Junior High, and as Jordan Vocational High.\n\nIt was a project of Carleton B. Gibson, who became Superintendent of schools in Columbus in 1896.\n\n"}
{"id": "12153317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12153317", "title": "Sixpenny Library", "text": "Sixpenny Library\n\nErnest Benn Limited’s Sixpenny Library is a complete series of reference books published in the late 1920s and early 1930s. The library included over one hundred and eighty volumes. The series was edited by William Rose, who solicited current authorities in such areas as history, literature, religion, psychology, science, and economics. Some contributing authors were Hilaire Belloc, Maurice Baring, J.B. Priestley, Sir (later Lord) Robert Baden-Powell, Sir Oliver Lodge, S.V Keeling and Sir Ernest Benn himself. \"The Spectator\", in November 1927, after announcing some the latest additions to \"Messrs Benn's excellent Sixpenny Library\" devoted a further paragraph to his contribution on Trade (both of which are free to read online). Partial lists of the books published in the series can be found here and here.\n\nThe books were praised by critics for their excellence, brevity, and inexpensive price.\n"}
{"id": "21721040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21721040", "title": "Stack Overflow", "text": "Stack Overflow\n\nStack Overflow is a privately held website, the flagship site of the Stack Exchange Network, created in 2008 by Jeff Atwood and Joel Spolsky. It features questions and answers on a wide range of topics in computer programming. It was created to be a more open alternative to earlier question and answer sites such as Experts-Exchange. The name for the website was chosen by voting in April 2008 by readers of \"Coding Horror\", Atwood's popular programming blog.\n\nThe website serves as a platform for users to ask and answer questions, and, through membership and active participation, to vote questions and answers up or down and edit questions and answers in a fashion similar to a wiki or Digg. Users of Stack Overflow can earn reputation points and \"badges\"; for example, a person is awarded 10 reputation points for receiving an \"up\" vote on an answer given to a question and 5 points for the \"up\" vote of a question, and can receive badges for their valued contributions, which represents a kind of gamification of the traditional Q&A site. Users unlock new privileges with an increase in reputation like the ability to vote, comment, and even edit other people's posts. All user-generated content is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribute-ShareAlike license.\n\nClosing questions is a main differentiation from Yahoo! Answers and a way to prevent low quality questions. The mechanism was overhauled in 2013; questions edited after being put \"on hold\" now appear in a review queue. Jeff Atwood stated in 2010 that duplicate questions are not seen as a problem but rather they constitute an advantage if such additional questions drive extra traffic to the site by multiplying relevant keyword hits in search engines.\n\nStack Overflow also has a Jobs section to assist developers in finding their next opportunity. For employers, Stack Overflow provides tools to brand their business, advertise their openings on the site, and source candidates from Stack Overflow's database of developers who are open to being contacted.\n\nThe website was created by Jeff Atwood and Joel Spolsky in 2007. On 31 July 2008, Jeff Atwood sent out invitations encouraging his subscribers to take part in the private beta of the new website, limiting its use to those willing to test out the new software. On 15 September 2008 it was announced the public beta version was in session and that the general public was now able to use it to seek assistance on programming related issues. The design of the Stack Overflow logo was decided by a voting process.\n\nOn 3 May 2010 it was announced that Stack Overflow had raised $6 million in venture capital from a group of investors led by Union Square Ventures.\n\nStack Overflow only accepts questions about programming that are tightly focused on a specific problem. Questions of a broader nature–or those inviting answers that are inherently a matter of opinion– are usually rejected by the site's users, and marked as closed. The sister site softwareengineering.stackexchange.com is intended to be a venue for broader queries, e.g. general questions about software development.\n\nIn April 2009, Stack Exchange implemented a policy of \"timed suspension\", in order to curtail users who either show \"No effort to learn (the community rules) and improve over time\" or engage in \"disruptive behavior\" and become a nuisance. The suspension is accompanied by temporarily setting the user's reputation score at '1' and a notation on the user's profile page indicating the suspension and remaining duration.\n\nA 2013 study has found that 75% of users only ask one question, 65% only answer one question, and only 8% of users answer more than 5 questions. As of 2011, 92% of the questions were answered, in a median time of 11 minutes. Since 2013, the Stack Exchange network software automatically deletes questions that meet certain criteria, including having no answers in a certain amount of time.\n\nAs of August 2012, 443,000 of the 1.3M registered users had answered at least one question, and of those, approximately 6,000 (0.46% of the total user count) had earned a reputation score greater than 5000. Reputation can be gained fastest by answering questions related to tags with lower expertise density, doing so promptly (in particular being the first one to answer a question), being active during off-peak hours, and contributing to diverse areas.\n\nIn 2016, 1.5 million posts were deleted, of which about 8% were deleted by moderators.\n\nStack Overflow is written in C# using the ASP.NET MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework, and Microsoft SQL Server for the database and the Dapper object-relational mapper used for data access. Unregistered users have access to most of the site's functionality, while users who sign in can gain access to more functionality, such as asking or answering a question, establishing a profile and being able to earn reputation to allow functionality like re-tagging questions or voting to close a question.\n\nStack Overflow has received general praise for its architecture of handling questions and answers as they are regulated by the community. Its success has often been attributed to self-regulation.\n\nRomanian researcher Bogdan Vasilescu criticized Stack Overflow, saying that its policies discouraged women from being actively involved while an editor from Medium said it kept maintaining a negative atmosphere for newcomers. In another report, researchers conducted empirical studies to identify what types of barriers exist for women, as well as men for posting. The study suggested that the site encourages one-upmanship, flame-wars and down-voting which makes it less likely that female users will participate. It criticised the rewards system and found instances of \"gender swapping\" with females adopting male or gender-neutral personas and some males masquerading as females thinking that they will not be treated as harshly.\n\nStack Overflow has been criticized for the proliferation of poor programming and development practices, specifically by encouraging developers to prioritize basic functionality at the expense of other features like security. A study from the University of Maryland found that Android developers that used only Stack Overflow as their programming resource tended to write more insecure code than those who used only the official Android developer documentation from Google.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10891239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10891239", "title": "Study group", "text": "Study group\n\nA study group is a small group of people who regularly meet to discuss shared fields of study. These groups can be found in high school and college setting, within companies, occasionally primary/junior school and sometimes Middle School/Intermediate. Professional advancement organizations also may encourage study groups. Study groups have helped students who have trouble being in a large group setting.\n\nEach group is unique and draws on the backgrounds and abilities of its members to determine the material that will be covered. Often, a leader who is not actively studying the material will direct group activities. Some colleges actively set up study group programs for students to sign up.\n\nTypical college level academic groups include 5-20 students and an administrator or tutor drawn from the graduate program or an upperclassman. Professional groups are often smaller.\n\nWhen students study in groups, they can motivate and encourage each other and lessen procrastination. Also, students are able to learn some studying skills and habits by observing others' study skills and they can incorporate it in their studying routine. Teaching concepts and information to others can help be more familiar and master those concepts. In addition, some students might be uncomfortable asking a question in class and they might feel more comfortable asking someone in a small group.It can create a more fun and positive experience for students.\n"}
{"id": "1399837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1399837", "title": "TEMPUS", "text": "TEMPUS\n\nThe TEMPUS (Trans-European Mobility Programme for University Studies) program encourages higher education institutions in the EU Member States and partner countries to engage in structured cooperation through the establishment of \"consortia\". The \"consortia\" implement Joint European Projects (JEPs) with a clear set of objectives. Such projects may receive financial aid for two or three years. Tempus also provides Individual Mobility Grants (IMGs) to individuals working in Higher Education sector to help them work on certain specified activities in other countries.\n\nAs of 1 January 2014, Tempus-like activities, namely capacity building activities, have become part of a new cooperation programme called Erasmus+. These activities involve existing Tempus countries, in addition to countries from Latin America, Asia and Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.\n\nExample projects\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22572094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22572094", "title": "TU Delft Faculty of Architecture", "text": "TU Delft Faculty of Architecture\n\nThe Faculty of Architecture and the Built Environment at TU Delft (; abbr. \"BK\" ) is the largest faculty of the university with around 2,900 students. It is also one of the top faculties of the TU Delft and was ranked 3rd in the world's top universities for architecture & built environment in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2015, 2017 and 2018 following the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and University College London (UCL).\n\nOn January 8, 1842, King Willem II founded the 'Royal Academy for the education of civilian engineers, for serving both nation and industry, and of apprentices for trade'. On June 20, 1864, a Royal Decree was issued, ordering that the Royal Academy in Delft be disbanded in order to make way for a new 'Polytechnic School'. The School went on to educate architects, and engineers in the fields of civil works, shipbuilding, mechanical engineering and mining. STYLOS, the Student Association for architectural students in the faculty, was established in 1894 and is one of the biggest in the Netherlands.\n\nIn 2008, the faculty of Architecture almost completely burned down in a fire. The current building is TU Delft's former main building.\n\nThe Faculty is home to a famous chair collection. It was originally housed in the old building and it narrowly escaped destruction in the fire in which that building burned down. Having so narrowly escaped the fire, the value of the collection became much more apparent. The free-to-enter museum showcasing a large collection of chairs throughout history, is currently housed as a permanent exhibit in the new faculty building.\n\nBkBeats started in 1972 when it was called 'Bouwkundefeest' and was hosted at the faculty then also, however back then it was the old faculty which burned down in 2008. Since then it is hosted in the new faculty building. It is the largest student festival hosted in a educational faculty in the Netherlands. It is hosted biennially, and organised by STYLOS, one of the faculties student organisations. The festival is so popular that it has been sold out many consecutive editions to date. As of the 2018 edition of the event, regular tickets costed 16 euro. For the festival the faculty is rebuilt from the inside and the festival takes place inside the faculty building.\n\nThe Faculty offers the following degrees:\n\n\nThe following are associated with the Faculty.\n\n\n\nWith a large international student presence, there are various specialist associations linked to the Faculty of Architecture and the Built Environment. These include a study association for students and an alumni association, as well as several active practical associations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17943671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17943671", "title": "Tyumen State Oil and Gas University", "text": "Tyumen State Oil and Gas University\n\nTyumen State Oil and Gas University (TSOGU) is a higher educational institution of Tyumen, one of the largest scientific and educational complexes of Russia including all education levels from the general secondary, secondary professional and higher education (specialist program, bachelor's degree, Master's degree program) to postgraduate study and doctoral studies, the program of professional development and retraining of personnel, the program of elite technical education.\n\nThe Tyumen State Oil and Gas University conducts the family tree from training and counseling center of the Ural polytechnic institute opened in Tyumen in 1956 which was further a part of the Tyumen industrial institute. It happened in 1963 when fast development of resources of Western Siberia began. In 1963 the decision to create the profile higher education institution training experts for an oil and gas complex of Siberia in Tyumen was made.\n\nIn 1994 the name was changed to \"Tyumen State Oil and Gas University\".\n\nToday in higher education institution 35 thousand students on all steps of education are trained. The leading technical higher education institution of Western Siberia offers 36 directions of preparation according to programs of the higher education (bachelor's degree, specialist program), 31 directions of master's degree program, 37 specialties of secondary professional education, 14 programs of training in working professions and 8 directions of study in postgraduate study. Since June 2007 graduates and teachers of TSOGU can receive the European supplement to the diploma.\n\nAs a part of the scientific staff of TSOGU there are 225 doctors of science, professors, 787 candidates of science, associate professors. Among them there are 3 academicians, 4 corresponding members of the Russian Academy of Sciences and more than 100 full members and corresponding members of Academies of Sciences, the winner of the Lenin award, 3 winners of the State award, 7 honored worker of science and technology of the Russian Federation.\n\nPartnership for many years connects TSOGU with the largest oil and gas, transport and service companies, such as OAO Surgutneftegas, OAO Lukoil, OAO Transneft – Siberia, OAO Gazprom, OAO Rosneft, Baker Hughes, \"Schlumberger\", \"Halliburton\", \"KCA DeutagDrilling\", \"Repsol\", etc. Today the higher education institution has signed over 190 contracts on cooperation.\n\nThe priority direction in this area is the conclusion of the long-term complex contracts providing training of specialists with the higher education, professional development of employees of the enterprises, carrying out Companies' Days, the organization of the students' internships, employment of graduates. The partner enterprises provide support to higher education institution in updating and modernization of industrial practice base establishing of the modern laboratories, audiences, computer classes, training centers. So, in higher education institution a set of personalized lecture halls, e.g. ООО \"Rosneft, OAO Transneft – Siberia, OAO Lukoil, specially equipped with an educational program of Microsoft IT Academy, Slavneft-Megionneftegaz (JSC SN-MNG), \"Schlumberger\" lecture hall etc.\n\nIn TSOGU the Joint Council of Students (JCS) conducts active work. Members of JCS participate in meetings of the Academic council and administration; consist in the commissions conducting work on creation of local normative legal acts. As a part of Council there are more than 20 public associations of a social, scientific, military patriotic orientation. Since 2008 the Joint Council of Students and students of TSOGU is the best student council in the Tyumen region.\n\nThe Joint Primary Trade-union Organization (JPTUO) is the voluntary public association of the citizens connected by common interests by the nature of their activity, created for representation and protection of their social and labor rights and interests. Regularly trade-union activists become nominal scholars of TSOGU JPTUO and of the All-Russian labor union of education. Internal competitions in which everyone can participate are held.\n\nIn higher education institution there are a lot of communities, clubs and organizations for interests, e.g. International club considered as popularization of foreign students in public, creative, scientific and sports life of university; Intellectual club promoting the student's intellectual movement; The Tyumen student's office of the international society of petroleum engineers at TSOGU (SPE); Military patriotic association of \"Panthers of Neftegaz\"; Student information bureau is a community of nonprofessional journalists; Formula Neftegaz engineering design office; Student's Sports club \"Neft\", etc.\n\nIn TSOGU on all forms of education there are 1400 foreign students from 32 countries of the world: from the neighboring countries (Egypt, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Georgia, and Turkmenistan) and beyond (Great Britain, the USA, Canada, Germany, China, France, and Mongolia). Especially for foreign participants interesting programs of additional education in summer and winter periods which not only allow to get acquainted with traditions and customs of residents of Western Siberia but also increase the level of knowledge of Russian and adopt experience of leading experts of oil and gas branch are developed.\n\nMore and more actively cooperation of TSOGU with foreign partner higher education institutions with financial support of the concerned foreign enterprises of oil and gas sector of economy is being developed. These are programs of \"exchange education\" of Institute of geology and oil and gas production of TSOGU and Institute of oil and gas equipment of Technical University of Klausthal (Germany) and Institute of geology and oil and gas production of TSOGU and Institute of \"The higher school of mining operations of the Madrid University (Spain).\n\nSince June 2007 graduates and teachers of TSOGU can receive the European supplement to the diploma, the master's degree in PhD postgraduate study. Students and teachers annually become attendees of foreign courses and training in the cities of Europe and America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "300275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300275", "title": "University of Ontario Institute of Technology", "text": "University of Ontario Institute of Technology\n\nThe University of Ontario Institute of Technology, commonly referred to as UOIT, is a public research university located in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada. It was founded in 2002 by the \"University of Ontario Institute of Technology Act, 2002\" passed by the Government of Ontario, and its first students were accepted in 2003, making it one of Canada's newest universities.\nUOIT offers a range of undergraduate programs, and graduate programs in science, engineering, health and information technology (IT) from its main campus, co-located with Durham College on approximately of land in the northern part of Oshawa. It operates a secondary campus in Downtown Oshawa offering programs in social sciences and teacher education.\n\nThe enabling legislation of UOIT includes the implementation of a \"Technology-Enriched Learning Environment\" (TELE), which emphasizes the usage of computing resources through the student experience. Faculty members encourage students to use laptops or other computing devices to complete assignments, perform laboratory research and interact with faculty during lectures. Previously, all undergraduate programs required students to lease a laptop PC from the university as a condition of enrollment, although in recent years, many faculties have adopted a \"bring your own device\" approach, accommodating flexibility among users while continuing to provide necessary software and support.\n\nUOIT was founded in 2002 by the passage of Bill 109, the \"University of Ontario Institute of Technology Act, 2002\", by the Legislative Assembly of Ontario on June 27, 2002. It is a public university emphasizing science and technology, and a part of the Ontario government's initiative to create more spaces in post-secondary institutions for the double cohort. UOIT's slogan, \"Challenge, Innovate, Connect\", was unveiled in June 2006.\n\nUOIT offered graduate and post-graduate programs and research opportunities to the first 947 students in September 2003 and total enrolment was over 5,000 in the 2007–2008 school year, making it, at the time, the fastest-growing university in Ontario. The student population by 2012 was 9203 students. Teaching and research have long been considered the two pillars of the university's endeavour.\n\nConstruction on the university's first buildings began in 2002. Facilities include a library shared with Durham College, buildings for science, business, and IT, and a virtual hospital for nursing students. The Ontario Power Generation Engineering Building opened in September 2006, and the connected Automotive Centre of Excellence (ACE) opened in 2011; this is a multi-level testing and research centre that allows for climatic, durability and life cycle testing. It has a range of testing facilities including a five-storey high wind tunnel.\n\nPlans have been announced for the Centre for Cybercrime Research which will be a separate, permanent location on campus and will be dedicated to research and the training of graduate and undergraduate students in various aspects of cybercrime.\n\nAn expansion to the athletic facilities, funded largely by students, was completed in September 2007.\n\nThe university has established a downtown campus. It purchased and renovated the Regent Theatre to be used as a lecture theatre during the week and as a community stage on the weekends. The university renovated the former Alger Press building which opened in January 2011 as the headquarters of the UOIT downtown campus. UOIT has initiated plans to renovate Victoria St. (between King St. and Bond St. and beside Bordessa Hall) into a pedestrian, social and lounge area. The Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities and the Faculty of Education are located downtown. The residences for UOIT are Simcoe Village and South Village.\n\nThe University of Ontario Institute of Technology Ridgebacks are members of Ontario University Athletics (OUA) and Canadian Interuniversity Sport (CIS), and compete in sports including rowing, curling, golf, badminton, and men's and women's hockey and soccer.\n\nThe Automotive Centre of Excellence (ACE) is located on the university's north campus location.\n\nIt is divided into two sections: a core research facility (CRF) and an integrated research and training facility (IRTF), with a total area of approximately 16,300 square metres.\n\nThe CRF has full-size chambers for full climatic, structural durability and life cycle testing including a climatic wind tunnel. In this test chamber, wind speeds can exceed 240 kilometres per hour, temperatures range from -40 to +60 °C and relative humidity ranges from 5 to 95 per cent. The climatic wind tunnel has a variable nozzle that can optimize the airflow from 7 to 13 square metres (and larger) allowing for a range of vehicle and test property sizes. Coupled with this feature is a large flexible chassis dynamometer that is integrated into an 11.5-metre turntable, so that vehicles and test properties can be turned into the airstream under full operating conditions to facilitate crosswind development. The large open chamber has a readily reconfigurable solar array that will replicate the effects of the sun and is hydrogen-capable, allowing for alternative fuels and fuel cell development.\n\nThe IRTF spans five floors with space for research, education and training. In addition to conventional automotive applications, ACE is suitable for testing alternative fuel, hybrid and electric vehicles. It is large enough to accommodate trucks, tandem drive systems, full coach buses, light rail transit, aerospace, military and agricultural applications, wind turbines and solar panels.\n\nACE was developed in partnership with UOIT, General Motors of Canada, the Government of Ontario, the Government of Canada and the Partners for the Advancement of Collaborative Engineering Education (PACE). The total cost of the facility was approximately $100 million.\n\nThe Energy Systems and Nuclear Science Research Centre (ERC) is a 9,290-square-metre facility that houses UOIT's unique-in-Canada education programs and research in geothermal, hydraulic, hydrogen, natural gas, nuclear solar and wind energy technologies. The ERC enables research in clean and green energies and technologies, and promotes Canada's entrepreneurial advantage through public-private research and commercialization partnerships.\n\nUndergraduate, graduate and second-career training enrolment of energy scientists and nuclear engineers is projected to climb from 364 students in 2009-2010 to approximately 650 in 2012. These programs are complemented by Energy and Environmental options in UOIT's Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Science programs.\n\n\nAs of the 2017/2018 academic year students of UOIT are represented by the UOIT Student Union (UOITSU). This organization provides advocacy and student services for the students across several campuses. Pre-2017 the student of UOIT were represented by the UOIT DC Student Association; in early 2017 UOIT students voted in a court mandated referendum in favour of forming their own representative body separate of Durham College. The services provided by the UOITSU and previously the UOIT-DC SA include a food centre, a Pride + LGBTQ Centre, a sexual health resource centre, a Women's Centre, intramural and extramural leagues, Riot Radio (a student-run radio station), and a number of campus clubs and societies, including the UOIT Engineering Students' Society.\n\nThe Student Association is known for the annual CampusFest events including the CampusFest concert. Past concert performers include Avicii, 20 Amp Soundchild, Monster Truck (band), Tommy Trash, The Chainsmokers, and Wolfgang Gartner.\n\nUOIT has a growing \"Greek\" community: there are several fraternities and sororities on campus, even though they are not recognized by the university. These Greek organizations host events for students and do philanthropy work for the surrounding community, Tau Kappa Epsilon has an annual charity event known as \"Teke in a box\" where they raise money for the campus food centre. Zeta Psi has an annual charity event known as \"Zete car push\" where they raise money by pushing a car.\n\nFraternities include:\n\nSororities include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32776", "title": "Victoria University of Wellington", "text": "Victoria University of Wellington\n\nVictoria University of Wellington () is a university in Wellington, New Zealand. It was established in 1897 by Act of Parliament, and was a constituent college of the University of New Zealand.\n\nThe university is well known for its programmes in law, the humanities, and some scientific disciplines, and offers a broad range of other courses. Entry to all courses at first year is open, and entry to second year in some programmes (e.g. law, criminology, creative writing, architecture, engineering) is restricted.\n\nVictoria had the highest average research grade in the New Zealand Government's Performance-Based Research Fund exercise in 2012, having been ranked 4th in 2006 and 3rd in 2003. Victoria has been ranked 221st in the World's Top 500 universities by the QS World University Rankings (2018).\n\nVictoria is named after Queen Victoria, as 1897 was the 60th anniversary of her coronation. There was a dispute initially as to where to site it, and it opened in temporary facilities in Thorndon. It was eventually decided to place it in Kelburn, where it still has its primary campus. This decision was influenced by the Cable Car company's offer of a donation of £1,000 if it were located in Kelburn so that students would patronise the Cable Car from the city. Several of the Company investors like Martin Kennedy were supporters of Seddon, who stalled on releasing land on the alternative Mount Cook Gaol site for the university, although this site was widely supported in Wellington.\n\nThe foundation stone of the historic Hunter Building was laid in 1904. The original name was Victoria University College, but on the dissolution of the University of New Zealand in 1961 Victoria or \"Vic\" became the Victoria University of Wellington, conferring its own degrees.\n\nAn extramural branch was founded at Palmerston North in 1960. It merged with Massey College on 1 January 1963. Having become a branch of Victoria upon the University of New Zealand's 1961 demise, the merged college became Massey University on 1 January 1964.\n\nIn 2004, Victoria celebrated the 100th birthday of its first home, the Hunter Building.\n\nVictoria has expanded beyond its original campus in Kelburn, with campuses in Te Aro (Faculty of Architecture and Design), and Pipitea (opposite Parliament, housing the Faculty of Law and Victoria Business School). Victoria also hosts the Ferrier Research Institute and the Robinson Research Institute in Lower Hutt, the Coastal Ecology Laboratory in Island Bay and the Miramar Creative Centre, in Park Rd, Miramar.\n\nIn 2015, Victoria opened a new campus in Auckland to service the growing demand for its courses and expertise.\n\nIn May 2018, it was reported that Victoria was exploring options to simplify its name to \"University of Wellington\". Vice-Chancellor Grant Guillford said that the university was pursuing a name change in order to reduce confusion overseas, as several other universities also carried the \"Victoria\" name. On the 27th July, 2018, the Victoria University of Wellington Council agreed in principle to the name change, as well as replacing the Māori name with \"Te Herenga Waka\". Of the 2,000 public submissions on the name change proposal were strongly opposed, 75% were strongly opposed to it. Alumni and students were strongly opposed to the name change, staff gave mixed feedback, while university stakeholders favoured the name change. \n\nOn 24 September 2018, Victoria University's Council voted by a majority of nine to two to change the university's name to the University of Wellington. The Council also voted to adopt the new Māori name of \"Te Herenga Waka.\" The University's Vice-Chancellor Grant Guilford abstained from the vote, citing a conflict of interest. Critics such as Victoria University law professor Geoff McLay criticized the name change for erasing 120 years of history. By contrast, Chancellor Neil Pavious-Smith defended the outcome of the vote as \"one decision in a much broader strategy to try and help the university really achieve its potential\". The Council will submit its recommendation to the Minister of Education who will make the final decision.\n\nIts main campus is in Kelburn, a suburb on a hill overlooking the Wellington central business district, where its administration and humanities & social science and science faculties are based. The law and commerce and administration faculties are in the Pipitea Campus, near Parliament Buildings, which consists of Rutherford House, the restored Old Government Buildings, and the West Wing of the Wellington Railway Station. A smaller campus in Te Aro is the base for the architecture and design schools. The newest facility, the Victoria University Coastal Ecology Laboratory supports research programmes in marine biology and coastal ecology on Wellington's rugged south coast.\n\nDay-to-day governance is in the hands of the University Council, which consists of 20 people: four elected by the Court of Convocation, three elected by the academic staff, one elected by the general staff, two appointed by the student union executive, four appointed by the Minister of Education, four selected by the Council itself, and the Vice-Chancellor. The Court of Convocation is composed of all graduates who choose to participate. Charles Wilson, at the time the chief librarian of the parliamentary library, was a member of the original council and its chairman for two years.\n\nFor New Zealand residents entry to most courses is open, with a few exceptions. Performance Music requires an audition. There is selection for entry into the second year in degrees such as the LLB, BArch and BDes. BA in criminology and creative writing is also based on selection.\n\nIt is one of only three institutions (University of Auckland and Unitec being the others) to offer a degree in architecture in New Zealand.\n\nIn conjunction with Massey University it owns the New Zealand School of Music.\n\nThe blazon for the arms is: Vert on a fesse engrailed between three Crowns Or, a Canton Azure charged with four Estoilles Argent.\n\nWhat this means: The colour of the shield is first described. Vert is green so the shield is green. A fess is a horizontal stripe across the shield and engrailed means the edges of the fess are wavy. The fess is between three crowns and or means gold so the crowns are golden. Conventionally with three objects two are placed above and one below, in this case, the fess. A canton is a square and azure is blue so a blue square is placed on the fess. An estoille is a star and argent is silver so there are four silver stars on the canton. These are supposed to represent the Southern Cross.\n\nCrest: The crest sits above the shield and consists of a crown on which sits a lion rampant (facing left) holding a staff from which flies a banner with the cross of Saint George.\n\nSupporters: These are a lion and a Māori figure.\n\nMotto: \"Sapientia magis auro desideranda\" which may be translated as \"Wisdom is more to be desired than gold\".\n\nThe modern depiction: The Coat of Arms has been redesigned as a corporate logo and is depicted in monotone only and usually in green. The crest and scroll with the motto have disappeared and what was left has been stylised rather than being depicted in the traditional heraldic manner.\n\nThe library was established in 1899. The collections are dispersed over four locations: Kelburn Library, Law Library, Architecture and Design Library and Commerce Library. The library is also has a collection of digital resources and acquires full text material online. In addition to electronic resources, printed books and journals, the Library also acquires works in microform, sound recordings, videos and other media consistent with the University's academic programme needs.\n\nThe library holds approximately 1.3 million printed volumes. It provides access to 70,000 print and electronic periodical titles and 200,000 e-books. It is an official Depository Library (DL-296) of the United Nations System (DEPOLIB), one of only three in the country. The J. C. Beaglehole Room is the official repository of all archival and manuscript material, and provides a supervised research service for Rare Books, for fine or fragile print items, and for 'last resort' copies of University publications.\n\nThe New Zealand Electronic Text Centre (NZETC) is a digital library of significant New Zealand and Pacific Island texts and materials, and is arranged according to the library of Congress classification system. The library has two online repositories: the ResearchArchive is its open research repository, which makes the university's research freely available online and the RestrictedArchive, which is the university's private research repository and is accessible only to Victoria University staff and students.\n\nBetween April 2003 and February 2010 the library was home to two locally famous residents, Tessa Brown and Sandy Rankine, a pair of library cats.\n\nThe faculties are:\n\nThe Faculty of Law is located in the restored Old Government Buildings at the centre of the country's law-making precinct, in close proximity to Parliament, the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal, and the District and High courts.\nThe Faculty is rated 19th in the world in the 2013 QS World University Rankings and led New Zealand's law faculties for research in the most recent Performance-Based Research Fund Evaluation.\n\nIt offers both undergraduate LLB degrees (including Honours) and the postgraduate Certificate in Law (CertLaw), Diploma in Law (DipLaw) and Masters in Law (LLM) as well as the Doctor in Philosophy of Law (PhD). The Law Students' Association organises social events as well as the competitions, an annual Law Revue and public addresses. Many judges, MPs and notable New Zealanders are alumni of the Faculty. In 2013, the Faculty had 1781 law students enrolled. The Dean is Dr Mark Hickford.\n\nVictoria has more than 40 research centres and institutes, including\nTo see more, browse an A-Z List of Research Centres and Institutes\n\n\nVictoria operated\n\nPrivately operated\n\nIn July, 2016, a Victoria University of Wellington staff member Rebekah Proctor was jailed for two years and five months for defrauding the university out of $480,000 – as of 27 October Proctor has appealed her sentence. In October 2016 students protested the cut of several European languages, including the German language department losing 43% of staff. Also in 2016, Victoria University of Wellington was embroiled in a row with the Tertiary Education Union, when it was discovered that union members were being paid less than non-union members. This led the TEU to characterise the Vice-Chancellor Grant Guildford as being anti-union, and resulted in a one-day strike.\n\nIn late 2015, academics and students at Victoria University of Wellington spoke out at the university hosting Israeli Defence Force troops for a public lecture. The opposition for this public lecture came about because of the soldier's involvement in Operation Protective Edge, which is thought to have killed at least 2000 Palestinians, most of them civilians.\n\nIn 2012 a Facebook page that is associated with Victoria University of Wellington students, \"Overheard @ Vic\", was in the media for the many rape comments that were made. These included comments like \"you've got to rape the paper, man, you can't let the paper rape you\" and \"at least ugly girls don't get raped\". In response to this, a spokesperson for Victoria University of Wellington said that \"student safety was a key focus, and the university had partnered with police and Wellington City Council to promote awareness of personal safety\".\n\nIn 2010 there was widespread condemnation of Victoria University of Wellington removing the Gender Studies department. In 2017, a minor in Gender Studies was made available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45656760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45656760", "title": "Wellcome Institute for the History of Medicine", "text": "Wellcome Institute for the History of Medicine\n\nThe Wellcome Institute for the History of Medicine (1968–1999) was a London centre for the study and teaching of medical history. It consisted of the Wellcome Library and an Academic Unit. The former was and is a world-class library collection owned and managed by the Wellcome Trust and staffed by librarians including academic librarians who held honorary lectureships at University College London. The Academic Unit was a group of university staff appointed at University College London that conducted a program of university teaching, thesis supervision, seminars, conferences and publications.\n\n\n\nIn 1999 the Wellcome Institute for the History of Medicine was terminated, and in its place two new organisations were created: The Wellcome Library and the Wellcome Trust Centre for the History of Medicine at UCL. The following persons succeeded David Pearson as Librarians of the Wellcome Library.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43782814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43782814", "title": "Worachet Pakeerut", "text": "Worachet Pakeerut\n\nWorachet Pakeerut (, , ; born 8 August 1969) is a Thai legal scholar specialising in constitutional and administrative law and a professor at the Faculty of Law, Thammasat University.\n\nWorachet was born in Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya Province, where his father was a railway station master. He completed high school at the prestigious Triam Udom Suksa School in Bangkok before studying law at Thammasat University from which he graduated with an honours degree. In 1988, he served as deputy president of his university's student council. The Thai Bar Association admitted him to the bar in 1992. He continued his studies at the University of Göttingen in Germany, completing the Magister Juris programme in 1994 with a thesis about the \"clausula rebus sic stantibus\" in administrative contract law. He started teaching as a lecturer at the Faculty of Law, Thammasat University, but returned to Göttingen to complete his doctoral studies. Worachet was conferred a Doctor of Laws title in 1999. His thesis about the development of legal doctrine of the \"administrative law contract\" \"(verwaltungsrechtlicher Vertrag)\" was graded \"summa cum laude\". Once again, he returned to Bangkok to be appointed associate professor at the Thammasat University.\n\nWorachet has published a number of textbooks about administrative and constitutional law. Since September 2010, he has made public appearances as the most prominent spokesman of the \"Nitirat\" (; literally \"Law for the People\") group—also known as \"Enlightened Jurists\"—an association of law lecturers who campaign for constitutional reform and a change of Thailand's lèse majesté law (article 112 of the Thai criminal code), proposing to reduce the maximum penalty of currently 15 years, limiting the right to press charges to the office of the king's private secretary (instead of everyone) and excluding constructive criticism from the offence's definition. In late-February 2012, Worachet was assaulted by two men on the parking lot of Thammasat University's downtown campus, who later declared they disagreed with his campaign for a change of article 112. Worachet and his group have repeatedly criticised Thailand's Constitutional Court, accusing it of political interventions and exceeding its authority. They have even demanded the replacement of the tribunal completely.\n\nAfter the Thai coup d'état of 22 May 2014, Worachet was summoned to report to the military junta National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO), but failed to do so within allotted time, as he was abroad. Upon his return to Thailand, he was taken into custody for defying the junta's orders, but released on bail on the same day. In July 2014, the Thammasat University council promoted Worachet from associate professor to a full professorship. His promotion to the professorship was endorsed by the Civil Service Commission on 27 October 2016 and received the royal assent from King Rama X on 5 April 2017, with retroactive effect as from 12 June 2013. The proclamation on his promotion was countersigned by NCPO deputy leader Air Chief Marshal Prajin Jantong.\n\nWorachet is a member of the supervisory board of the German-Southeast Asian Center of Excellence for Public Policy and Good Governance (CPG).\n\n\n\n"}
