{"id": "34606563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34606563", "title": "Abū Zayd ibn Muḥammad ibn Abī Zayd", "text": "Abū Zayd ibn Muḥammad ibn Abī Zayd\n\nAbū Zayd ibn Muḥammad ibn Abī Zayd (active c. 1186 — 1219, Kashan; often simply referred to as Abu Zayd) was a medieval Persian potter. His extant signed body of work, 15 pieces, is larger than that of any other medieval Iranian potter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1245040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245040", "title": "Agatharchus", "text": "Agatharchus\n\nAgatharchus or Agatharch (Ancient Greek: Ἀγάθαρχος) was a self-taught painter from Samos who lived in the 5th century BC. He is said by Vitruvius to have invented scene-painting, and to have painted a scene (\"scenam fecit\") for a tragedy which Aeschylus exhibited. Hence some writers, such as Karl Woermann, have supposed that he introduced perspective and illusion into painting.\n\nHowever, as this appears to contradict Aristotle's assertion that scene-painting was introduced by Sophocles, some scholars understand Vitruvius to mean merely that Agatharchus constructed a stage. But the context shows clearly that perspective painting must be meant, for Vitruvius goes on to say that Democritus and Anaxagoras, carrying out the principles laid down in a treatise written by Agatharchus, wrote on the same subject, showing how, in drawing, the lines ought to be made to correspond, according to a natural proportion, to the figure which would be traced out on an imaginary intervening plane by a pencil of rays proceeding from the eye, as a fixed point of sight, to the several points of the object viewed.\n\nIt was probably not till towards the end of Aeschylus's career that scene-painting was introduced, and not till the time of Sophocles that it was generally made use of; which may account for what Aristotle says.\n\nAgatharchus was therefore the first painter known to have used graphical perspective on a large scale, although rare occurrences of perspective do appear in vase painting around the middle of the 6th century BC. He is also said to have led the way for later painters, such as Apollodorus.\n\nAgatharchus was a contemporary of Alcibiades and Zeuxis, and was often singled out for the ease and rapidity with which he finished his works. Plutarch and Andocides at greater length tell an anecdote of Alcibiades having inveigled Agatharchus to his house and kept him there for more than three months in strict durance, compelling him to paint it. The speech of Andocides above referred to seems to have been delivered after the destruction of Melos (416 BC) and before the expedition to Sicily (415 BC); so that from the above data the age of Agatharchus may be accurately fixed.\n"}
{"id": "54218472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54218472", "title": "Alireza Afshar", "text": "Alireza Afshar\n\nAlireza Afshar () is an Iranian military officer. He served as the political deputy to the Minister of Interior, being appointed in August 2007. In this capacity, he served as head of Country's Election Headquarters during Iranian legislative election, 2008.\n\nHe was formerly spokesman of Iranian Armed Forces.\n\nHe was a member of the Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution Organization in the 1980s, and belonged to its right-wing faction.\n"}
{"id": "6393590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6393590", "title": "Andrew Jackson Barchfeld", "text": "Andrew Jackson Barchfeld\n\nAndrew Jackson Barchfeld (May 18, 1863 – January 28, 1922) was a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives from Pennsylvania.\n\nBarchfeld was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to German immigrants from Prussia. He attended Pittsburgh Central High School and graduated from Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1884. He was a physician, hospital executive, and member of the common council of Pittsburgh from 1886-1887. He was a member of the Republican State committee. He was an unsuccessful candidate for election to Congress in 1902.\n\nBarchfeld was elected as a Republican to the Fifty-ninth and to the five succeeding Congresses. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1916. He was a delegate to the peace congress at Brussels in 1905. He was a member of the commission to the Philippine Islands in 1910, and a member of the Panama Canal Commission in 1912. He died on January 28, 1922, in the Knickerbocker Theater disaster in Washington, D.C. Interment was in South Side Cemetery in Pittsburgh.\n\n"}
{"id": "80732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80732", "title": "Artificial cardiac pacemaker", "text": "Artificial cardiac pacemaker\n\nA pacemaker (or artificial pacemaker, so as not to be confused with the natural pacemaker of the heart) is a medical device that generates electrical impulses delivered by electrodes to contract the heart muscles and regulate the electrical conduction system of the heart.\n\nThe primary purpose of a pacemaker is to maintain an adequate heart rate, either because the heart's natural pacemaker is not fast enough, or because there is a block in the heart's electrical conductive system. Modern pacemakers are externally programmable and allow a cardiologist to select the optimum pacing modes for individual patients. Some combine a pacemaker and defibrillator in a single implantable device. Others have multiple electrodes stimulating differing positions within the heart to improve synchronization of the ventricles, the lower chambers of the heart.\n\nPercussive pacing, also known as transthoracic mechanical pacing, is the use of the closed fist, usually on the left lower edge of the sternum over the right ventricle in the \"vena cava\", striking from a distance of 20 – 30 cm to induce a ventricular beat (the \"British Journal of Anaesthesia\" suggests this must be done to raise the ventricular pressure to 10–15 mmHg to induce electrical activity). This is an old procedure used only as a life saving means until an electrical pacemaker is brought to the patient.\n\nTranscutaneous pacing (TCP), also called external pacing, is recommended for the initial stabilization of hemodynamically significant bradycardias of all types. The procedure is performed by placing two pacing pads on the patient's chest, either in the anterior/lateral position or the anterior/posterior position. The rescuer selects the pacing rate, and gradually increases the pacing current (measured in mA) until electrical capture (characterized by a wide QRS complex with a tall, broad T wave on the ECG) is achieved, with a corresponding pulse. Pacing artifact on the ECG and severe muscle twitching may make this determination difficult. External pacing should not be relied upon for an extended period of time. It is an emergency procedure that acts as a bridge until transvenous pacing or other therapies can be applied.\n\nTemporary epicardial pacing is used during open heart surgery should the surgical procedure create atrio-ventricular block. The electrodes are placed in contact with the outer wall of the ventricle (epicardium) to maintain satisfactory cardiac output until a temporary transvenous electrode has been inserted.\n\nTransvenous pacing, when used for temporary pacing, is an alternative to transcutaneous pacing. A pacemaker wire is placed into a vein, under sterile conditions, and then passed into either the right atrium or right ventricle. The pacing wire is then connected to an external pacemaker outside the body. Transvenous pacing is often used as a bridge to permanent pacemaker placement. It can be kept in place until a permanent pacemaker is implanted or until there is no longer a need for a pacemaker and then it is removed.\n\nPermanent pacing with an implantable pacemaker involves transvenous placement of one or more pacing electrodes within a chamber, or chambers, of the heart, while the pacemaker is implanted inside the skin under the clavicle. The procedure is performed by incision of a suitable vein into which the electrode lead is inserted and passed along the vein, through the valve of the heart, until positioned in the chamber. The procedure is facilitated by fluoroscopy which enables the physician to view the passage of the electrode lead. After satisfactory lodgement of the electrode is confirmed, the opposite end of the electrode lead is connected to the pacemaker generator.\n\nThere are three basic types of permanent pacemakers, classified according to the number of chambers involved and their basic operating mechanism:\n\nThe pacemaker generator is a hermetically sealed device containing a power source, usually a lithium battery, a sensing amplifier which processes the electrical manifestation of naturally occurring heart beats as sensed by the heart electrodes, the computer logic for the pacemaker and the output circuitry which delivers the pacing impulse to the electrodes.\n\nMost commonly, the generator is placed below the subcutaneous fat of the chest wall, above the muscles and bones of the chest. However, the placement may vary on a case by case basis.\n\nThe outer casing of pacemakers is so designed that it will rarely be rejected by the body's immune system. It is usually made of titanium, which is inert in the body.\n\nIntracardial pacemakers are placed inside the heart. They are some 10 percent the size of a subclaviculars. Such pacemakers do not require leads to be connected to in the heart muscle from the distant pacemaker device. Intracardials are implanted into the heart using a steerable catheter fed into the femoral vein via an incision in the inner thigh.\n\nModern pacemakers usually have multiple functions. The most basic form monitors the heart's native electrical rhythm. When the pacemaker does not detect a heartbeat within a normal beat-to-beat time period, it will stimulate the ventricle of the heart with a short low voltage pulse. This sensing and stimulating activity continues on a beat by beat basis.\n\nThe more complex forms include the ability to sense and/or stimulate both the atrial and ventricular chambers.\n\nFrom this the basic ventricular \"on demand\" pacing mode is VVI or with automatic rate adjustment for exercise VVIR – this mode is suitable when no synchronization with the atrial beat is required, as in atrial fibrillation. The equivalent atrial pacing mode is AAI or AAIR which is the mode of choice when atrioventricular conduction is intact but the natural pacemaker the sinoatrial node is unreliable – sinus node disease (SND) or sick sinus syndrome. Where the problem is atrioventricular block (AVB) the pacemaker is required to detect (sense) the atrial beat and after a normal delay (0.1–0.2 seconds) trigger a ventricular beat, unless it has already happened – this is VDD mode and can be achieved with a single pacing lead with electrodes in the right atrium (to sense) and ventricle (to sense and pace). These modes AAIR and VDD are unusual in the US but widely used in Latin America and Europe. The DDDR mode is most commonly used as it covers all the options though the pacemakers require separate atrial and ventricular leads and are more complex, requiring careful programming of their functions for optimal results.\n\nCardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is used for people with heart failure in whom the left and right ventricles do not contract simultaneously (ventricular dyssynchrony), which occurs in approximately 25–50% of heart failure patients. To achieve CRT, a biventricular pacemaker (BVP) is used, which can pace both the septal and lateral walls of the left ventricle. By pacing both sides of the left ventricle, the pacemaker can resynchronize the ventricular contractions.\n\nCRT devices have at least two leads, one passing through the \"vena cava\" and the right atrium into the right ventricle to stimulate the septum, and another passing through the \"vena cava\" and the right atrium and inserted through the coronary sinus to pace the epicardial wall of the left ventricle. Often, for patients in normal sinus rhythm, there is also a lead in the right atrium to facilitate synchrony with the atrial contraction. Thus, timing between the atrial and ventricular contractions, as well as between the septal and lateral walls of the left ventricle can be adjusted to achieve optimal cardiac function.\n\nCRT devices have been shown to reduce mortality and improve quality of life in patients with heart failure symptoms; a LV ejection fraction less than or equal to 35% and QRS duration on EKG of 120 ms or greater.\n\nBiventricular pacing alone is referred to as CRT-P (for pacing). For selected patients at risk of arrhythmias, CRT can be combined with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD): such devices, known as CRT-D (for defibrillation), also provide effective protection against life-threatening arrhythmias.\n\nA major step forward in pacemaker function has been to attempt to mimic nature by utilizing various inputs to produce a rate-responsive pacemaker using parameters such as the QT interval, pO – pCO (dissolved oxygen or carbon dioxide levels) in the arterial-venous system, physical activity as determined by an accelerometer, body temperature, ATP levels, adrenaline, etc.\nInstead of producing a static, predetermined heart rate, or intermittent control, such a pacemaker, a 'Dynamic Pacemaker', could compensate for both actual respiratory loading and potentially anticipated respiratory loading. The first dynamic pacemaker was invented by Anthony Rickards of the National Heart Hospital, London, UK, in 1982.\n\nDynamic pacemaking technology could also be applied to future artificial hearts. Advances in transitional tissue welding would support this and other artificial organ/joint/tissue replacement efforts. Stem cells may be of interest in transitional tissue welding.\n\nMany advancements have been made to improve the control of the pacemaker once implanted. Many of these have been made possible by the transition to microprocessor controlled pacemakers. Pacemakers that control not only the ventricles but the atria as well have become common. Pacemakers that control both the atria and ventricles are called dual-chamber pacemakers. Although these dual-chamber models are usually more expensive, timing the contractions of the atria to precede that of the ventricles improves the pumping efficiency of the heart and can be useful in congestive heart failure.\n\nRate responsive pacing allows the device to sense the physical activity of the patient and respond appropriately by increasing or decreasing the base pacing rate via rate response algorithms.\n\nThe DAVID trials have shown that unnecessary pacing of the right ventricle can exacerbate heart failure and increases the incidence of atrial fibrillation. The newer dual chamber devices can keep the amount of right ventricle pacing to a minimum and thus prevent worsening of the heart disease.\n\nA pacemaker is typically inserted into the patient through a simple surgery using either local anesthetic or a general anesthetic. The patient may be given a drug for relaxation before the surgery as well. An antibiotic is typically administered to prevent infection. In most cases, the pacemaker is inserted in the left shoulder area, where an incision is made below the collar bone, creating a small pocket where the pacemaker is actually housed in the patient's body. The lead or leads (the number of leads varies depending on the type of pacemaker) are fed into the heart through a large vein using a fluoroscope to monitor the progress of lead insertion. The right ventricular lead would be positioned away from the apex (tip) of the right ventricle and up on the interventricular septum, below the outflow tract, to prevent deterioration of the strength of the heart. The actual surgery typically lasts 30 to 90 minutes.\n\nFollowing surgery, the patient should exercise reasonable care with the wound as it heals. There is a follow-up session during which the pacemaker is checked using a \"programmer\" that can communicate with the device and allows a health care professional to evaluate the system's integrity and determine the settings such as pacing voltage output. The patient should have the strength of his or her heart analyzed frequently with echocardiography, every 1 or 2 years, to make sure that placement of the right ventricular lead has not led to a weakening of the left ventricle.\n\nThe patient may want to consider some basic preparation before the surgery. The most basic preparation is that people who have body hair on the chest may want to remove the hair by clipping just prior to surgery or using a depilatory agent (preoperative shaving has been on the decline since it can cause skin breakage and increase infection risk of any surgical procedure) since the surgery will involve bandages and monitoring equipment to be affixed to the body.\n\nSince a pacemaker uses batteries, the device itself will need replacement as the batteries lose power. Device replacement is usually a simpler procedure than the original insertion since it does not normally require leads to be implanted. The typical replacement requires a surgery in which an incision is made to remove the existing device, the leads are removed from the existing device, the leads are attached to the new device, and the new device is inserted into the patient's body, replacing the previous device.\n\nOnce the pacemaker is implanted, it is periodically checked to ensure the device is operational and performing appropriately. Depending on the frequency set by the following physician, the device can be checked as often as is necessary. Routine pacemaker checks are typically done in-office every six (6) months, though will vary depending upon patient/device status and remote monitoring availability. Newer pacemaker models can also be interrogated remotely, with the patient transmitting their pacemaker data using an at-home transmitter connected to their geographical cellular network. This data can then be accessed by the technician through the device manufacturer's web portal.\n\nAt the time of in-office follow-up, the device will be interrogated to perform diagnostic testing. These tests include:\n\nAn additional aspect of the in-office check is to examine any events that were stored since the last follow-up. These are typically stored based on specific criteria set by the physician and specific to the patient. Some devices have the availability to display intracardiac electrograms of the onset of the event as well as the event itself. This is especially helpful in diagnosing the cause or origin of the event and making any necessary programming changes.\n\nA patient's lifestyle is usually not modified to any great degree after insertion of a pacemaker. There are a few activities that are unwise such as full contact sports and activities that involve intense magnetic fields.\n\nThe pacemaker patient may find that some types of everyday actions need to be modified. For instance, the shoulder harness of a vehicle seatbelt may be uncomfortable if the harness should fall across the pacemaker insertion site.\n\nAny kind of an activity that involves intense magnetic fields should be avoided. This includes activities such as arc welding possibly, with certain types of equipment, or maintaining heavy equipment that may generate intense magnetic fields (such as a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machine).\n\nHowever, in February 2011 the FDA approved a new pacemaker device from Medtronic called the Revo MRI SureScan which was the first to be labeled as conditional for MRI use. There are several limitations to its use including certain patients' qualifications and scan settings. Most major cardiac device manufacturers now have FDA-approved MR-conditional pacemakers.\n\nA 2008 U.S. study has found that the magnets in some headphones included with portable music players, when placed within an inch of pacemakers, may cause interference.\n\nSome medical procedures may require the use of antibiotics to be administered before the procedure. The patient should inform all medical personnel that he or she has a pacemaker. Some standard medical procedures such as the use of MRI may be ruled out by the patient having a pacemaker.\n\nIn addition, according to the American Heart Association, some home devices have a remote potential to cause interference by occasionally inhibiting a single beat. Cellphones available in the United States (less than 3 watts) do not seem to damage pulse generators or affect how the pacemaker works.\n\nA panel of The Heart Rhythm Society, a specialist organization based in Washington, DC found that it was legal and ethical to honor requests by patients, or by those with legal authority to make decisions for patients, to deactivate implanted cardiac devices. Lawyers say that the legal situation is similar to removing a feeding tube, though there is currently no legal precedent involving pacemakers in the United States of America. A patient in the United States is thought to have a right to refuse or discontinue treatment, including a pacemaker that keeps him or her alive. Physicians have a right to refuse to turn it off, but are advised by the HRS panel that they should refer the patient to a physician who will. Some patients believe that hopeless, debilitating conditions, like those brought on by severe strokes or late-stage dementia, can cause so much suffering that they would prefer not to prolong their lives with supportive measures, such as cardiac devices.\n\nSecurity and privacy concerns have been raised with pacemakers that allow wireless communication. Unauthorized third parties may be able to read patient records contained in the pacemaker, or reprogram the devices, as has been demonstrated by a team of researchers. The demonstration worked at short range; they did not attempt to develop a long range antenna. The proof of concept exploit helps demonstrate the need for better security and patient alerting measures in remotely accessible medical implants. In response to this threat, Purdue University and Princeton University researchers have developed a prototype firewall device, called MedMon, which is designed to protect wireless medical devices such as pacemakers and insulin pumps from attackers.\n\nComplications from having surgery to implant a pacemaker are uncommon, but could include: Infection where the pacemaker was implanted. Allergic reaction to the dye or anesthesia used during the procedure. Swelling, bruising or bleeding at the generator site, especially if the patient is taking blood thinners.\n\nA possible complication of dual-chamber artificial pacemakers is 'pacemaker-mediated tachycardia' (PMT), a form of reentrant tachycardia. In PMT, the artificial pacemaker forms the anterograde (atrium to ventricle) limb of the circuit and the atrioventricular (AV) node forms the retrograde limb (ventricle to atrium) of the circuit. Treatment of PMT typically involves reprogramming the pacemaker.\n\nAnother possible complication is \"pacemaker-tracked tachycardia,\" where a supraventricular tachycardia is tracked by the pacemaker and produces beats from a ventricular lead. This is becoming exceedingly rare as newer devices are often programmed to recognize supraventricular tachycardias and switch to non-tracking modes.\n\nSometimes the leads, which are small diameter wires, from the pacemaker to the implantation site in the heart muscle will need to be removed. The most common reason for lead removal is infection, however over time leads can degrade due to a number of reasons such as lead flexing. Changes to programming of the pacemaker may overcome lead degradation to some extent. However a patient who has several pacemaker replacements over a decade or two in which the leads were reused may require a lead replacement surgery.\n\nLead replacement may be done in one of two ways. Insert a new set of leads without removing the current leads (not recommended as it provides additional obstruction to blood flow and heart valve function) or remove the current leads and then insert replacements. The lead removal technique will vary depending on the surgeon's estimation of the probability that simple traction will suffice to more complex procedures. Leads can normally be disconnected from the pacemaker easily which is why device replacement usually entails simple surgery to access the device and replace it by simply unhooking the leads from the device to replace and hooking the leads to the new device. The possible complications, such as perforation of the heart wall, come from removing the lead{s} from the patient's body.\n\nThe other end of a pacemaker lead is actually implanted into the heart muscle. In addition leads that have been implanted for a decade or two will usually have attachments to the patient's body at various places in the pathway from device to heart muscle since the human body tends to incorporate foreign devices into tissue. In some cases such as a device that has been inserted for a short amount of time, removal may involve simple traction to pull the lead from the body. Removal in other cases is typically done with a cutting device which threads over the lead and is moved down the lead to remove any organic attachments with tiny cutting lasers or similar device.\n\nPacemaker lead malposition in various locations has been described in the literature. Depending on the location of the pacer lead and symptoms treatment varies.\n\nAnother possible complication called twiddler's syndrome occurs when a patient manipulates the pacemaker and causes the leads to be removed from their intended location and causes possible stimulation of other nerves.\n\nSometimes devices resembling pacemakers, called implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) are implanted. These devices are often used in the treatment of patients at risk from sudden cardiac death. An ICD has the ability to treat many types of heart rhythm disturbances by means of pacing, cardioversion, or defibrillation. Some ICD devices can distinguish between ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia (VT), and may try to pace the heart faster than its intrinsic rate in the case of VT, to try to break the tachycardia before it progresses to ventricular fibrillation. This is known as \"fast-pacing\", \"overdrive pacing\", or \"anti-tachycardia pacing\" (ATP). ATP is only effective if the underlying rhythm is ventricular tachycardia, and is never effective if the rhythm is ventricular fibrillation.\n\nIn 1889, John Alexander MacWilliam reported in the \"British Medical Journal\" (BMJ) of his experiments in which application of an electrical impulse to the human heart in asystole caused a ventricular contraction and that a heart rhythm of 60–70 beats per minute could be evoked by impulses applied at spacings equal to 60–70/minute.\n\nIn 1926, Mark C Lidwill of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital of Sydney, supported by physicist Edgar H. Booth of the University of Sydney, devised a portable apparatus which \"plugged into a lighting point\" and in which \"One pole was applied to a skin pad soaked in strong salt solution\" while the other pole \"consisted of a needle insulated except at its point, and was plunged into the appropriate cardiac chamber\". \"The pacemaker rate was variable from about 80 to 120 pulses per minute, and likewise the voltage variable from 1.5 to 120 volts\". In 1928, the apparatus was used to revive a stillborn infant at Crown Street Women's Hospital, Sydney whose heart continued \"to beat on its own accord\", \"at the end of 10 minutes\" of stimulation.\n\nIn 1932, American physiologist Albert Hyman, with the help of his brother, described an electro-mechanical instrument of his own, powered by a spring-wound hand-cranked motor. Hyman himself referred to his invention as an \"artificial pacemaker\", the term continuing in use to this day.\n\nAn apparent in publication of research conducted between the early 1930s and World War II may be attributed to the public perception of interfering with nature by \"reviving the dead\". For example, \"Hyman did not publish data on the use of his pacemaker in humans because of adverse publicity, both among his fellow physicians, and due to newspaper reporting at the time. Lidwell may have been aware of this and did not proceed with his experiments in humans\".\n\nIn 1950, Canadian electrical engineer John Hopps designed and built the first external pacemaker based upon observations by cardio-thoracic surgeons Wilfred Gordon Bigelow and John Callaghan at Toronto General Hospital, although the device was first tested at the University of Toronto's Banting Institute on a dog. A substantial external device using vacuum tube technology to provide transcutaneous pacing, it was somewhat crude and painful to the patient in use and, being powered from an AC wall socket, carried a potential hazard of electrocution of the patient and inducing ventricular fibrillation.\n\nA number of innovators, including Paul Zoll, made smaller but still bulky transcutaneous pacing devices in the following years using a large rechargeable battery as the power supply.\n\nIn 1957, William L. Weirich published the results of research performed at the University of Minnesota. These studies demonstrated the restoration of heart rate, cardiac output and mean aortic pressures in animal subjects with complete heart block through the use of a myocardial electrode.\n\nIn 1958 Colombian doctor Alberto Vejarano Laverde and Colombian electrical engineer Jorge Reynolds Pombo constructed an external pacemaker, similar to those of Hopps and Zoll, weighing 45 kg and powered by a 12 volt car lead–acid battery, but connected to electrodes attached to the heart. This apparatus was successfully used to sustain a 70-year-old priest, Gerardo Florez.\n\nThe development of the silicon transistor and its first commercial availability in 1956 was the pivotal event which led to rapid development of practical cardiac pacemaking.\n\nIn 1958, engineer Earl Bakken of Minneapolis, Minnesota, produced the first wearable external pacemaker for a patient of C. Walton Lillehei. This transistorized pacemaker, housed in a small plastic box, had controls to permit adjustment of pacing heart rate and output voltage and was connected to electrode leads which passed through the skin of the patient to terminate in electrodes attached to the surface of the myocardium of the heart.\n\nOne of the earliest patients to receive this Lucas pacemaker device was a woman in her early 30s in an operation carried out in 1964 at the Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford by cardiac surgeon Alf Gunning from South Africa and later Professor Gunning who was a student of Christiaan Barnard. This pioneering operation was carried out under the guidance of cardiac consultant Peter Sleight at the Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford and his cardiac research team at St George's Hospital in London. Sleight later became Professor of Cardiovascular Medicine at Oxford University.\n\nThe first clinical implantation into a human of a fully implantable pacemaker was in 1958 at the Karolinska Institute in Solna, Sweden, using a pacemaker designed by Rune Elmqvist and surgeon Åke Senning, connected to electrodes attached to the myocardium of the heart by thoracotomy. The device failed after three hours. A second device was then implanted which lasted for two days. The world's first implantable pacemaker patient, Arne Larsson, went on to receive 26 different pacemakers during his lifetime. He died in 2001, at the age of 86, outliving the inventor as well as the surgeon.\n\nIn 1959, temporary transvenous pacing was first demonstrated by Seymore Furman and John Schwedel, whereby the catheter electrode was inserted via the patient's basilic vein.\n\nIn February 1960, an improved version of the Swedish Elmqvist design was implanted in Montevideo, Uruguay in the Casmu 1 Hospital by Doctors Orestes Fiandra and Roberto Rubio. That device lasted until the patient died of other ailments, nine months later. The early Swedish-designed devices used rechargeable batteries, which were charged by an induction coil from the outside. It was the first pacemaker implanted in America.\n\nImplantable pacemakers constructed by engineer Wilson Greatbatch entered use in humans from April 1960 following extensive animal testing. The Greatbatch innovation varied from the earlier Swedish devices in using primary cells (mercury battery) as the energy source. The first patient lived for a further 18 months.\n\nThe first use of transvenous pacing in conjunction with an implanted pacemaker was by Parsonnet in the United States, Lagergren in Sweden and Jean-Jacques Welti in France in 1962–63.\nThe transvenous, or pervenous, procedure involved incision of a vein into which was inserted the catheter electrode lead under fluoroscopic guidance, until it was lodged within the trabeculae of the right ventricle. This method was to become the method of choice by the mid-1960s.\n\nCardiothoracic Surgeon Leon Abrams, and Medical Engineer Ray Lightwood, developed and implanted the first patient controlled variable rate heart pacemaker in 1960 at Birmingham University. The first implant took place in March 1960, with two further implants the following month. These three patients made good recoveries and returned to a high quality of life. By 1966, 56 patients had undergone implantation with one surviving for over years.\n\nThe preceding implantable devices all suffered from the unreliability and short lifetime of the available primary cell technology which was mainly that of the mercury battery. In the late 1960s, several companies, including ARCO in the USA, developed isotope-powered pacemakers, but this development was overtaken by the development in 1971 of the lithium iodide cell by Wilson Greatbatch. Lithium-iodide or lithium anode cells became the standard for future pacemaker designs.\n\nA further impediment to reliability of the early devices was the diffusion of water vapour from the body fluids through the epoxy resin encapsulation affecting the electronic circuitry. This phenomenon was overcome by encasing the pacemaker generator in a hermetically sealed metal case, initially by Telectronics of Australia in 1969 followed by Cardiac Pacemakers Inc of Minneapolis in 1972. This technology, using titanium as the encasing metal, became the standard by the mid-1970s.\n\nOn July 9, 1974, Manuel A. Villafaña and Anthony Adducci founders of Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc. (Guidant) in St. Paul, Minnesota, manufactured the world's first pacemaker with a lithium anode and a lithium-iodide electrolyte solid-state battery.\n\nIn 2013, multiple firms announced devices that could be inserted via a leg catheter rather than invasive surgery. The devices are roughly the size and shape of a pill, much smaller than the size of a traditional pacemaker. Once implanted, the device's prongs contact the muscle and stabilize heartbeats. Engineers and scientists are currently working on this type of device. In November 2014 a patient, Bill Pike of Fairbanks, Alaska, received a Medtronic Micra pacemaker in Providence St Vincent Hospital in Portland Oregon. D. Randolph Jones was the EP doctor. In 2014 also St. Jude Medical Inc. announced the first enrollments in the company’s leadless Pacemaker Observational Study evaluating the Nanostim leadless pacing technology. The Nanostim pacemaker received CE marking in 2013. The post-approval implants have occurred in Europe. The European study was recently stopped, after there were reports of six perforations that led to two patient deaths. After investigations St Jude Medical restarted the study. But in the United States this therapy is still not approved by the FDA. While the St Jude Nanostim and the Medtronic Micra are just single-chamber pacemakers it is anticipated that leadless dual-chamber pacing for patients with atrioventricular block will become possible with further development.\n\nThousands of pacemakers are removed by funeral home personnel each year all over the world. They have to be removed postmortem from bodies which are going to be cremated to avoid explosions. It is a fairly simple procedure which can be carried out by a mortician. Pacemakers with significant battery life are potentially life-saving devices for people in low and middle income countries (LMICs). The Institute of Medicine, a United States non-governmental organization, has reported that inadequate access to advanced cardiovascular technologies is one of the major contributors to cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality in LMICs. Ever since the 1970s, multiple studies all over the world have reported on the safety and efficacy of pacemaker reuse. , widely acceptable standards for safe pacemaker and ICD reuse have not been developed, and there continue to be legal and regulatory barriers to widespread adoption of medical device reuse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21110722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21110722", "title": "Astrobiology Society of Britain", "text": "Astrobiology Society of Britain\n\nThe Astrobiology Society of Britain (ASB) is a learned society dedicated to the understanding and advancement of astrobiology in the United Kingdom. The organisation is affiliated with NASA.\n\nThe society is mainly made up of members from the United Kingdom but also has international members. The society was created in 2003, when it emerged from the e-mailing list-based UK Astrobiology Forum and Network at the UK's first Astrobiology Conference in 2003 in Cambridge.\n\nThe ASB has official affiliations with the Royal Astronomical Society and the NASA Astrobiology Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "2186993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2186993", "title": "Bioprocessor", "text": "Bioprocessor\n\nA bioprocessor is a miniaturized bioreactor capable of culturing mammalian, insect and microbial cells. Bioprocessors are capable of mimicking performance of large-scale bioreactors, hence making them ideal for laboratory scale experimentation of cell culture processes. Bioprocessors are also used for concentrating bioparticles (such as cells) in bioanalytical systems. Microfluidic processes such as electrophoresis can be implemented by bioprocessors to aid in DNA isolation and purification.\n"}
{"id": "47075517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47075517", "title": "Blinding (punishment)", "text": "Blinding (punishment)\n\nBlinding is a type of physical punishment which results in complete or nearly complete loss of vision. It has been used as an act of revenge and torture. The punishment has been used since Antiquity; Greek mythology makes several references to blinding as divine punishment, which reflects human practice.\n\nIn the Byzantine Empire and many other historical societies, blinding was accomplished by gouging out the eyes, sometimes using a hot poker, and by pouring a boiling substance, such as vinegar, on them. \n\nOedipus, who gouged out his own eyes after accidentally fulfilling the prophecy that he would end up killing his father and marrying his mother. In the Bible, Samson was blinded upon his capture by the Philistines.\n\nEarly Christians were often blinded as a penalty for their beliefs. For example, St. Lucy's torturers tore out her eyes.\n\nBlinding survives as a form of penalty in the modern era, especially as part of the sharia law. In 2003, a Pakistani court sentenced a man to be blinded after he subjected his fiancee to an acid attack resulting in loss of vision. The man who blinded Ameneh Bahrami in an acid attack was sentenced to blinding by an Iranian court in 2009; Bahrami eventually pardoned the attacker.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, blinding was used as a penalty for treachery or as a means of rendering a political opponent unable to rule and lead an army in war. In the 11th century, William the Conqueror used blinding as a punishment for rebellion to replace the death penalty in his laws for England.\n\nBlinding was a punishment for killing a hart or hind in a royal forest.\n\nHenry I of England blinded William, Count of Mortain, who had fought against him at Tinchebray in 1106. He also ordered blinding and castration as a punishment for thieves.\n\nIn 1014, the Byzantine emperor Basil II had 99 of every 100 captured Bulgarians blinded, leaving 150 one-eyed men to lead them back to their commander.\n\nBela II of Hungary and his father was blinded by Coloman, King of Hungary.\n\n"}
{"id": "30131661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30131661", "title": "Capital punishment in Afghanistan", "text": "Capital punishment in Afghanistan\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Afghanistan.\n\nThe following is a list of some state executions carried out by the Government of Afghanistan:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14403502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14403502", "title": "Catabolysis", "text": "Catabolysis\n\nCatabolysis is a biological process in which the body breaks down fat and muscle tissue in order to stay alive. Catabolysis occurs only when there is no longer any source of protein, carbohydrate, or vitamin nourishment feeding all body systems; it is the most severe type of malnutrition.\n\nDue to the normal metabolic rate of humans catabolysis becomes life-threatening only after 1–2 months from the cessation of nutrition going into the body. After this time, the damage to muscles and organs can be permanent and can also eventually cause death, if left untreated. Catabolysis is the last metabolic resort for the body to keep itself — particularly the nervous system—functional.\n\nProtein stores, especially in muscle tissue, provide the amino acids needed for the process. Amino acids are released into the blood and converted in the liver to alpha keto acids. Alpha keto acids can then be converted to glucose to maintain proper blood sugar levels.\n\nThe situation can become dire when one begins to lose muscle mass; this is a sign that the fat has been expended and the body is now metabolizing the muscle tissue. This results in muscle atrophy, a loss of strength and, ultimately, a depletion of muscular tissue completely. Muscle weakness is not necessarily a symptom of catabolysis: the muscles will normally feel fatigued when they are not receiving enough energy or oxygen. Ultimately, catabolysis can progress to the point of no return when the body's machinery for protein synthesis, itself made of protein, has been degraded to the point that it cannot handle any protein. At this point, attempts to correct the disorder by giving food or protein are futile.\n\nThe body has a natural store of fat (also called \"adipose tissue\") that stores reserve energy. One can still stay alive while the body breaks down the fatty tissue (hence people wasting away from starvation).\n\nThe person may, during catabolysis, have large amounts of lipids, proteins, and amino acids in the bloodstream, due to the muscle fibers and adipose tissues being broken down and sent to the nervous system and brain. One may also exhibit a fever, since the body is working hard to transfer the nutrients in the muscles and fat to the blood.\n\nWhile catabolysis can be deadly over time, if the person is given medical treatment early enough, the effects of catabolysis can be reversed. However, the person may require intravenous nutrition, a blood transfusion, and/or oxygen replenishment. After that, it may be a few weeks to a few months before the person's muscle mass and fat deposits can build themselves up again; there is a possibility that they may never build back up, depending on the severity of the condition.\n"}
{"id": "4333700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4333700", "title": "Chiral knot", "text": "Chiral knot\n\nIn the mathematical field of knot theory, a chiral knot is a knot that is \"not\" equivalent to its mirror image. An oriented knot that is equivalent to its mirror image is an amphichiral knot, also called an achiral knot or amphicheiral knot. The chirality of a knot is a knot invariant. A knot's chirality can be further classified depending on whether or not it is invertible.\n\nThere are only five knot symmetry types, indicated by chirality and invertibility: fully chiral, reversible, positively amphichiral noninvertible, negatively amphichiral noninvertible, and fully amphichiral invertible.\n\nThe chirality of certain knots was long suspected, and was proven by Max Dehn in 1914. P. G. Tait conjectured that all amphichiral knots had even crossing number, but a counterexample was found by Morwen Thistlethwaite et al. in 1998. However, Tait's conjecture was proven true for prime, alternating knots.\n\nThe simplest chiral knot is the trefoil knot, which was shown to be chiral by Max Dehn. All torus knots are chiral. The Alexander polynomial cannot detect the chirality of a knot, but the Jones polynomial can in some cases; if \"V\"(\"q\") ≠ \"V\"(\"q\"), then the knot is chiral, however the converse is not true. The HOMFLY polynomial is even better at detecting chirality, but there is no known polynomial knot invariant which can fully detect chirality.\n\nA chiral knot that is invertible is classified as a reversible knot. Examples include the trefoil knot.\n\nIf a knot is not equivalent to its inverse or its mirror image, it is a fully chiral knot, for example the 9 32 knot.\n\nAn amphichiral knot is one which has an orientation-reversing self-homeomorphism of the 3-sphere, α, fixing the knot set-wise. \nAll amphichiral alternating knots have even crossing number. The first amphichiral knot with odd crossing number is a 15-crossing knot discovered by Hoste et al.\n\nIf a knot is isotopic to both its reverse and its mirror image, it is fully amphichiral. The simplest knot with this property is the figure-eight knot.\n\nIf the self-homeomorphism, α, preserves the orientation of the knot, it is said to be positive amphichiral. This is equivalent to the knot being isotopic to its mirror. No knots with crossing number smaller than twelve are positive amphichiral.\n\nIf the self-homeomorphism, α, reverses the orientation of the knot, it is said to be negative amphichiral. This is equivalent to the knot being isotopic to the reverse of its mirror image. The knot with this property that has the fewest crossings is the knot .\n"}
{"id": "1170160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170160", "title": "Chirality (mathematics)", "text": "Chirality (mathematics)\n\nIn geometry, a figure is chiral (and said to have chirality) if it is not identical to its mirror image, or, more precisely, if it cannot be mapped to its mirror image by rotations and translations alone. An object that is not chiral is said to be achiral. In 3 dimensions, not all achiral objects have a mirror plane. For example, a 3-dimensional object with inversion centre as its only nontrivial symmetry operation is achiral but has no mirror plane.\n\nA chiral object and its mirror image are said to be enantiomorphs. The word \"chirality\" is derived from the Greek (cheir), the hand, the most familiar chiral object; the word \"enantiomorph\" stems from the Greek (enantios) 'opposite' + (morphe) 'form'. A non-chiral figure is called achiral or amphichiral.\n\nSome chiral three-dimensional objects, such as the helix, can be assigned a right or left handedness, according to the right-hand rule.\n\nMany other familiar objects exhibit the same chiral symmetry of the human body, such as gloves and shoes. Right shoes differ from left shoes only by being mirror images of each other. In contrast thin gloves may not be considered chiral if you can wear them inside-out.\n\nThe J, L, S and Z-shaped \"tetrominoes\" of the popular video game Tetris also exhibit chirality, but only in a two-dimensional space. Individually they contain no mirror symmetry in the plane.\n\nA figure is achiral if and only if its symmetry group contains at least one \"orientation-reversing\" isometry. (In Euclidean geometry any isometry can be written as formula_1 with an orthogonal matrix formula_2 and a vector formula_3. The determinant of formula_2 is either 1 or −1 then. If it is −1 the isometry is \"orientation-reversing\", otherwise it is orientation-preserving.)\n\nSee for a full mathematical definition of chirality.\n\nIn three dimensions, every figure that possesses a mirror plane of symmetry \"S\", an inversion center of symmetry \"S\", or a higher improper rotation (rotoreflection) \"S\" axis of symmetry is achiral. (A \"plane of symmetry\" of a figure formula_5 is a plane formula_6, such that formula_5 is invariant under the mapping formula_8, when formula_6 is chosen to be the formula_10-formula_11-plane of the coordinate system. A \"center of symmetry\" of a figure formula_5 is a point formula_13, such that formula_5 is invariant under the mapping formula_15, when formula_13 is chosen to be the origin of the coordinate system.) Note, however, that there are achiral figures lacking both plane and center of symmetry. An example is the figure\n\nwhich is invariant under the orientation reversing isometry formula_18 and thus achiral, but it has neither plane nor center of symmetry. The figure\n\nalso is achiral as the origin is a center of symmetry, but it lacks a plane of symmetry.\n\nNote also that achiral figures can have a center axis.\n\nIn two dimensions, every figure which possesses an axis of symmetry is achiral, and it can be shown that every \"bounded\" achiral figure must have an axis of symmetry. (An \"axis of symmetry\" of a figure formula_5 is a line formula_21, such that formula_5 is invariant under the mapping formula_23, when formula_21 is chosen to be the formula_10-axis of the coordinate system.) For that reason, a triangle is achiral if it is equilateral or isosceles, and is chiral if it is scalene.\n\nConsider the following pattern:\n\nThis figure is chiral, as it is not identical to its mirror image:\n\nBut if one prolongs the pattern in both directions to infinity, one receives an (unbounded) achiral figure which has no axis of symmetry. Its symmetry group is a frieze group generated by a single glide reflection.\n\nA knot is called achiral if it can be continuously deformed into its mirror image, otherwise it is called a chiral knot. For example, the unknot and the figure-eight knot are achiral, whereas the trefoil knot is chiral.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49909457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49909457", "title": "Cho Bong-am", "text": "Cho Bong-am\n\nCho Bong-am (조봉암; 曺奉岩, 25 September 1898 – 31 July 1959) was a Korean independence activist and politician, who ran for president in the South Korean presidential election in 1956. He was a founding member of the Communist Party of Korea (조선공산당; 朝鮮共産黨) and the Progressive Party (진보당; 進步黨), a moderate socialist democratic party in South Korea which was one of the country's major political forces.\n\nCho Bong-am studied in Japan and the Soviet Union. In the 1920s, he was active in the Korean Communist Party. After Japanese rule though, Cho defected from the Communist Party in 1946, criticising it for its subservience to the Soviet Union. After the end of the United States Army Military Government in Korea in 1947, Cho became the Minister of Agriculture under Syngman Rhee's presidency.\n\nIn 1952, Cho ran for the presidency for the first time against sitting president Rhee, and Yi Si-yeong. He received only 0.8 million votes out of 5.2 million.\n\nThe Progressive Party was founded in the aftermath of the Korean War under Cho's leadership. Cho and his followers were able to build a wide coalition with the country's leftist forces. Cho also successfully created coalitions right-wing forces opposed to Syngman Rhee's dictatorship. The party's founding and moderate success in Korea's hostile political environment is considered a large result of Bong-am's personal charisma. The Progressive Party advocated peaceful unification with North Korea, through strengthening the country's democratic forces and winning in a unified Korean election. Cho called for both anti-communist and anti-authoritarian politics, as well as advocating for social welfare policies for the peasants and urban poor.\n\nIn the 1956 election, Cho ran against Rhee, the anti-communist strongman president. Cho lost with 30% of the vote, which exceeded expectations. Following the election, the Progressive Party broke apart due to factionalism. \n\nThree years after the election, Cho was charged with espionage and receiving funds from North Korea. His first trial resulted in an acquittal but he was convicted in a second trial and was executed on 31 July 1959. His death sentence was posthumously overturned in 2011 by the South Korean Supreme Court. \n"}
{"id": "203792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203792", "title": "Chögyam Trungpa", "text": "Chögyam Trungpa\n\nChögyam Trungpa (Wylie: \"Chos rgyam Drung pa\"; March 5, 1939 – April 4, 1987) was a Buddhist meditation master and holder of both the Kagyu and Nyingma lineages, the eleventh Trungpa tülku, a tertön, supreme abbot of the Surmang monasteries, scholar, teacher, poet, artist, and originator of a radical re-presentation of Shambhala vision.\n\nRecognized both by Tibetan Buddhists and by other spiritual practitioners and scholars as a preeminent teacher of Tibetan Buddhism, he was a major figure in the dissemination of Buddhism to the West, founding Vajradhatu and Naropa University and establishing the Shambhala Training method.\n\nAmong his contributions are the translation of numerous Tibetan texts, the introduction of the Vajrayana teachings to the West, and a presentation of the Buddhadharma largely devoid of ethnic trappings. Trungpa coined the term crazy wisdom. Some of his teaching methods and actions were the topic of controversy during his lifetime and afterwards.\n\nBorn in the Nangchen region of Tibet in March 1939, Chögyam Trungpa was eleventh in the line of Trungpa tülkus, important figures in the Kagyu lineage, one of the four main schools of Tibetan Buddhism. Among his three main teachers were Jamgon Kongtrul of Sechen, HH Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, and Khenpo Gangshar.\n\nThe name \"Chögyam\" is a contraction of \"Chökyi Gyamtso\" (), which means \"ocean of dharma\". \"Trungpa\" () means \"attendant\". He was deeply trained in the Kagyu tradition and received his khenpo degree at the same time as Thrangu Rinpoche; they continued to be very close in later years. Chögyam Trungpa was also trained in the Nyingma tradition, the oldest of the four schools, and was an adherent of the \"ri-mé\" (\"nonsectarian\") ecumenical movement within Tibetan Buddhism, which aspired to bring together and make available all the valuable teachings of the different schools, free of sectarian rivalry.\n\nAt the time of his escape from Tibet, Trungpa was head of the Surmang group of monasteries.\n\nOn April 23, 1959, twenty-year-old Trungpa set out on an epic nine-month escape from his homeland. Masked in his account in \"Born in Tibet\" to protect those left behind, the first, preparatory stage of his escape had begun a year earlier, when he fled his home monastery after its occupation by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). After spending the winter in hiding, he decided definitively to escape after learning that his monastery had been destroyed. Trungpa started with Akong Rinpoche and a small party of monastics, but as they traveled people asked to join until the party eventually numbered 300 refugees, from the elderly to mothers with babies – additions which greatly slowed and complicated the journey. Forced to abandon their animals, over half the journey was on foot as the refugees journeyed through an untracked mountain wilderness to avoid the PLA. Sometimes lost, sometimes traveling at night, after three months’ trek they reached the Brahmaputra River. Trungpa, the monastics and about 70 refugees managed to cross the river under heavy gunfire, then, eating their leather belts and bags to survive, they climbed 19,000 feet over the Himalayas before reaching the safety of Pema Ko. After reaching India, on January 24, 1960 the party was flown to a refugee camp.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2010, independent Canadian and French researchers using satellite imagery tracked and confirmed Trungpa’s escape route. In 2012, five survivors of the escape in Nepal, Scotland and the U.S. confirmed details of the journey and supplied their personal accounts. More recent analysis has shown the journey to be directly comparable to such sagas as Shackleton’s 1914/17 Antarctic Expedition. In 2016 accumulated research and survivors’ stories were published in a full retelling of the story, and later in the year preliminary talks began on the funding and production of a movie.\n\nIn exile in India, Trungpa began his study of English. In collaboration with Freda Bedi, who had initiated the project, Trungpa and Akong Tulku founded the Young Lamas Home School and, after seeking endorsement from the Dalai Lama, were appointed its spiritual head and administrator respectively.\n\nIn 1963, with the assistance of sympathetic Westerners, Trungpa received a Spalding sponsorship to study comparative religion at St Antony's College, Oxford University. In 1967, upon the departure of the western Theravadan monk Anandabodhi, Trungpa and Akong Rinpoche were invited by the Johnstone House Trust in Scotland to take over a meditation center, which then became Samye Ling, the first Tibetan Buddhist monastery in the West (future actor and musician David Bowie was one of Trungpa's meditation pupils there). In 1970, after a break with Akong, Trungpa moved to the United States at the invitation of several students.\n\nShortly after his move to Scotland, a variety of experiences, including a car accident that left him partially paralyzed on the left side of his body, led Trungpa to give up his monastic vows and work as a lay teacher. He made that decision principally to mitigate students' becoming distracted by exotic cultures and dress and to undercut their preconceptions of how a guru should behave. He drank, smoked, slept with students, and often kept students waiting for hours before giving teachings. Much of his behavior has been construed as deliberately provocative and sparked controversy. In one account, he encouraged students to give up smoking marijuana, claiming that the smoking was not of benefit to their spiritual progress and that it exaggerated neurosis. Students were often angered, unnerved and intimidated by him, but many remained fiercely loyal, committed, and devoted.\n\nUpon moving to the United States in 1970, Trungpa traveled around North America, gaining renown for his ability to present the essence of the highest Buddhist teachings in a form readily understandable to Western students. During this period, he conducted 13 Vajradhatu Seminaries, three-month residential programs at which he presented a vast body of Buddhist teachings in an atmosphere of intensive meditation practice. The seminaries also had the important function of training his students to become teachers themselves.\n\nTrungpa was one of the first teachers to introduce the esoteric practice of the Vajrayana to the West. According to Khenpo Tsultrim Gyamtso, \"The one who mainly spread the Vajrayana in the West was Trungpa Rinpoche.\" In contrast to its traditional presentation in Tibet, where the esoteric practices are largely the domain of the monastic sangha, in the US Trungpa introduced the Vajrayana to the lay sangha.\n\nThe presentation of these teachings gave rise to some criticism. According to Trungpa's former student Stephen Butterfield, \"Trungpa told us that if we ever tried to leave the Vajrayana, we would suffer unbearable, subtle, continuous anguish, and disasters would pursue us like furies\". Other Vajrayana teachers also warn their students about the dangers of the esoteric path.\n\nButterfield noted \"disquieting resemblances\" to cults, and \"to be part of Trungpa's inner circle, you had to take a vow never to reveal or even discuss some of the things he did.\" But Butterfield also notes that \"This personal secrecy is common with gurus, especially in Vajrayana Buddhism,\" and acknowledges that Trungpa's organization is anything but a cult: \"a mere cult leaves you disgusted and disillusioned, wondering how you could have been a fool. I did not feel that charlatans had hoodwinked me into giving up my powers to enhance theirs. On the contrary, mine were unveiled.\"\n\nIn 1973, Trungpa established Vajradhatu, encompassing all his North American institutions, headquartered in Boulder, Colorado. Trungpa also founded more than 100 meditation centers throughout the world. Originally known as Dharmadhatus, these centers, now more than 150 in number, are known as Shambhala Meditation Centers. He also founded retreat centers for intensive meditation practice, including Shambhala Mountain Center in Red Feather Lakes, Colorado, Karmê Chöling in Barnet, Vermont and Gampo Abbey in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia.\n\nIn 1974, Trungpa founded the Naropa Institute, which later became Naropa University, in Boulder, Colorado. Naropa was the first accredited Buddhist university in North America. Trungpa hired Allen Ginsberg to teach poetry and William Burroughs to teach literature.\n\nTrungpa had a number of notable students, among whom were Pema Chödrön, Allen Ginsberg, Peter Orlovsky, Anne Waldman, Diane di Prima, Peter Lieberson, John Steinbeck IV, José Argüelles, David Nichtern, Ken Wilber, David Deida, Francisco Varela, and Joni Mitchell, who portrayed Trungpa in the song \"Refuge of the Roads\" on her 1976 album Hejira. Ginsberg, Waldman, and di Prima also taught at Naropa University, and in the 1980s Marianne Faithfull taught songwriting workshops.\nLesser-known students Trungpa taught in England and the US include Alf Vial, Rigdzin Shikpo (né Michael Hookham), Jigme Rinzen (né P. Howard Useche), Ezequiel Hernandez Urdaneta (known as Keun-Tshen Goba after setting up his first meditation center in Venezuela), Miguel Otaola (aka Dorje Khandro), Francisco Salas Roche, and Francesca Fremantle. Rigdzin Shikpo promulgated Trungpa's teachings from a primarily Nyingma rather than Kagyü point of view at the Longchen Foundation.\n\nIn 1976, Trungpa began giving a series of secular teachings, some of which were gathered and presented as the Shambhala Training, inspired by his vision (see terma) of the legendary Kingdom of Shambhala. Trungpa had actually started writing about Shambhala before his 1959 escape from Tibet to India, but most of those writings were lost during the escape.\n\nIn his view not only was individual enlightenment not mythical, but the Shambhala Kingdom, an enlightened society, could in fact be actualized. The practice of Shambhala vision is to use mindfulness/awareness meditation as a way to connect with one's basic goodness and confidence. It is presented as a path that \"brings dignity, confidence, and wisdom to every facet of life.\" Trungpa proposed to lead the Kingdom as \"sakyong\" (Tib. earth protector) with his wife as queen-consort or \"sakyong wangmo.\"\n\nShambhala vision is described as a nonreligious approach rooted in meditation and accessible to individuals of any, or no, religion. In Shambhala terms, it is possible, moment by moment, for individuals to establish enlightened society. His book, \"\", provides a concise collection of the Shambhala views. According to Trungpa, it was his intention to propagate the kingdom of Shambala that provided the necessary inspiration to leave his homeland and make the arduous journey to India and the West.\n\nFrom the beginning of his time in the US, Trungpa encouraged his students to integrate a contemplative approach into their everyday activities. In addition to making a variety of traditional contemplative practices available to the community, he incorporated his students' already existing interests (especially anything relating to Japanese culture), evolving specialized teachings on a meditative approach to these various disciplines. These included kyūdō (Japanese archery), calligraphy, ikebana (flower arranging), Sadō (Japanese tea ceremony), dance, theater, film, poetry, health care, and psychotherapy. His aim was, in his own words, to bring \"art to everyday life.\" He founded the Nalanda Foundation in 1974 as an umbrella organization for these activities.\n\nTrungpa visited Nova Scotia for the first time in 1977. In 1983 he established Gampo Abbey, a Karma Kagyü monastery in Cape Breton. The following year, 1984–85, he observed a yearlong retreat at Mill Village and in 1986 he moved his home and Vajradhatu's international headquarters to Halifax.\n\nBy then he was in failing health due to the auto accident in his youth and years of heavy alcohol use. On September 28, 1986, he suffered cardiac arrest, after which his condition deteriorated, requiring intensive care at the hospital, then at his home and finally, in mid-March 1987, back at the hospital, where he died on April 4, 1987.\n\nIn 2006 his wife, Diana Mukpo, wrote, \"Although he had many of the classic health problems that develop from heavy drinking, it was in fact more likely the diabetes and high blood pressure that led to abnormal blood sugar levels and then the cardiac arrest\". But in a November 2008 interview, when asked \"What was he ill with? What did he die of?,\" Trungpa's doctor, Mitchell Levy, replied, \"He had chronic liver disease related to his alcohol intake over many years.\" One of Trungpa's nursing attendants reported that he suffered in his last months from classic symptoms of terminal alcoholism and cirrhosis, yet continued drinking heavily. She added, \"At the same time there was a power about him and an equanimity to his presence that was phenomenal, that I don't know how to explain.\"\n\nTrungpa is reported to have remained in a state of samādhi for five days after his death, his body not immediately decaying and his heart remaining warm. His body was packed in salt, laid in a wooden box, and conveyed to Karmê Chöling. A number of observers have reported that his cremation there on May 26, 1987, was accompanied by various atmospheric effects and other signs traditionally viewed as marks of enlightenment. These included the appearance of rainbows, circling eagles, and a cloud in the shape of an \"Ashe\".\n\nUpon Trungpa's death, the leadership of Vajradhatu was first carried on by his American disciple, appointed regent and Dharma heir, Ösel Tendzin (Thomas Rich), and then by Trungpa's eldest son and Shambhala heir, Sakyong Mipham Rinpoche.\n\nThe next Trungpa tülku, Chokyi Sengay, was recognized in 1991 by Tai Situ Rinpoche.\n\nMajor lineage holders of Trungpa's Tibetan Buddhist traditions and many other Buddhist teachers supported his work.\n\nIn 1974, Trungpa invited the 16th Karmapa, head of the Karma Kagyu lineage, to come to the West and offer teachings. Based on this visit, the Karmapa proclaimed Trungpa one of the principal Kagyu lineage holders in the west:\nThe ancient and renowned lineage of the Trungpas, since the great siddha Trungmase Chökyi Gyamtso Lodrö, possessor of only holy activity, has in every generation given rise to great beings. Awakened by the vision of these predecessors in the lineage, this my present lineage holder, Chökyi Gyamtso Trungpa Rinpoche, supreme incarnate being, has magnificently carried out the vajra holders' discipline in the land of America, bringing about the liberation of students and ripening them in the dharma. This wonderful truth is clearly manifest.\n\nAccordingly, I empower Chögyam Trungpa Vajra Holder and Possessor of the Victory Banner of the Practice Lineage of the Karma Kagyu. Let this be recognized by all people of both elevated and ordinary station.\nIn 1981, Trungpa and his students hosted the 14th Dalai Lama in his visit to Boulder, Colorado. Of Trungpa, the Dalai Lama later wrote, \"Exceptional as one of the first Tibetan lamas to become fully assimilated into Western culture, he made a powerful contribution to revealing the Tibetan approach to inner peace in the West.\"\n\nTrungpa also received support from one of his own main teachers, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, head of the Nyingma lineage. In addition to numerous sadhanas and poems dedicated to Trungpa, Khyentse Rinpoche wrote a supplication after Trungpa's death specifically naming him a mahasiddha. Among other Tibetan lamas to name Trungpa a mahasiddha are the Sixteenth Karmapa, Thrangu Rinpoche, Khenpo Tsultrim Gyamtso Rinpoche and Tai Situpa.\n\nThe Dzogchen Ponlop Rinpoche said, \"As taught in the Buddhist scriptures, there are nine qualities of a perfect master of buddhadharma. The eleventh Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche possessed all nine of these.\"\n\nSuzuki Roshi, founder of the San Francisco Zen Center and Tassajara Zen Mountain Center, and another important exponent of Buddhism to western students, described Trungpa in the context of a talk about emptiness:\nThe way you can struggle with this is to be supported by something, something you don't know. As we are human beings, there must be that kind of feeling. You must feel it in this city or building or community. So whatever community it may be, it is necessary for it to have this kind of spiritual support.\n\nThat is why I respect Trungpa Rinpoche. He is supporting us. You may criticize him because he drinks alcohol like I drink water, but that is a minor problem. He trusts you completely. He knows that if he is always supporting you in a true sense you will not criticize him, whatever he does. And he doesn't mind whatever you say. That is not the point, you know. This kind of big spirit, without clinging to some special religion or form of practice, is necessary for human beings.\nGehlek Rinpoche, who lived with Trungpa when they were young monks in India and later visited and taught with him in the U.S., remarked:\n\nHe was a great Tibetan yogi, a friend, and a master. The more I deal with Western Dharma students, the more I appreciate how he presented the dharma and the activities that he taught. Whenever I meet with difficulties, I begin to understand – sometimes before solving the problem, sometimes afterward – why Trungpa Rinpoche did some unconventional things. I do consider him to be the father of Tibetan Buddhism in the United States. In my opinion, he left very early – too early. His death was a great loss. Everything he did is significant.\nDiana Mukpo, his wife, stated:\n\nFirst, Rinpoche always wanted feedback. He very, very much encouraged his students’ critical intelligence. One of the reasons that people were in his circle was that they were willing to be honest and direct with him. He definitely was not one of those teachers who asked for obedience and wanted their students not to think for themselves. He thrived, he lived, on the intelligence of his students. That is how he built his entire teaching situation.\n\nFrom my perspective, I could always be pretty direct with him. Maybe I was not hesitant to do that because I really trusted the unconditional nature of our relationship. I felt there was really nothing to lose by being absolutely direct with him, and he appreciated that.\nAmong the forebears formally acknowledged by the Trungpa lineage, and referred to by Trungpa, were the Indian mahasiddha Ḍombipa (also known as Ḍombi Heruka; his name may have stemmed from his consorting with Dhombis, outcast women) and Drukpa Künlek (also Kunley), the Mad Yogi of Bhutan, who converted Bhutan to Buddhism and was famous for his fondness for beer and women. Both were recognized for their powerful but unorthodox teaching styles.\n\nTrungpa's own teaching style was often unconventional. In his own words, \"When we talk about compassion, we talk in terms of being kind. But compassion is not so much being kind; it is being creative to wake a person up.\" He did not encourage his students to imitate his own behavior, and was troubled by those who felt empowered by his example to do whatever they wanted and manipulate people. As the third Jamgön Kongtrül explained to Trungpa's students, \"You shouldn't imitate or judge the behavior of your teacher, Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche, unless you can imitate his mind.\"\n\nTrungpa's sexuality has been one of the sources of controversy, as he cultivated relations with a number of his female students. Tenzin Palmo, who met him in 1962 while he was still at Oxford, did not become one of his consorts, refusing his advances because he had presented himself as \"a pure monk.\" But Palmo stated that had she known Trungpa had been having sexual relations with women since he was 13, she would not have declined. Trungpa formally renounced his monastic vows in 1969.\n\nTrungpa was also known for smoking tobacco and liberally using alcohol; many who knew him characterized him as an alcoholic. He began drinking occasionally shortly after arriving in India. Before coming to the US, Trungpa drove a sports car into a joke shop in Dumfries, Scotland. While his companion was not seriously injured, Trungpa was left partially paralyzed. Later, he described this event as a pivotal moment that inspired the course of his teachings. Some accounts ascribe the accident to drinking. Others suggest he may have had a stroke. According to Trungpa himself, he blacked out.\n\nTrungpa often combined drinking with teaching. David Chadwick recounts: \n\nSuzuki [Roshi] asked Trungpa to give a talk to the students in the zendo the next night. Trungpa walked in tipsy and sat on the edge of the altar platform with his feet dangling. But he delivered a crystal-clear talk, which some felt had a quality – like Suzuki's talks – of not only being about the dharma but being itself the dharma.\nIn some instances Trungpa was too drunk to walk and had to be carried. Also, according to his student John Steinbeck IV and his wife, on a couple of occasions Trungpa's speech was unintelligible. One woman reported serving him \"big glasses of gin first thing in the morning.\"\n\nThe Steinbecks wrote \"The Other Side of Eden\", a sharply critical memoir of their lives with Trungpa in which they claim that, in addition to alcohol, he spent $40,000 a year on cocaine, and used Seconal to come down from the cocaine. The Steinbecks said the cocaine use was kept secret from the wider Vajradhatu community.\n\nAn incident that became a cause célèbre among some poets and artists was the Halloween party at Snowmass Colorado Seminary in 1975, held during a 3-month period of intensive meditation and study of the Hinayana, Mahayana, and Vajrayana vehicles of Tibetan Buddhism. The poet W. S. Merwin had arrived at the Naropa Institute that summer and been told by Allen Ginsberg that he ought to attend the seminary. Although he had not gone through the several years' worth of study and preparatory mind training required, Merwin insisted on attending and Trungpa eventually granted his request – along with Merwin's girlfriend. At seminary the couple kept to themselves. At the Halloween party, after many, including Trungpa himself, had taken off their clothes, Merwin was asked to join the event but refused. On Trungpa's orders, his Vajra Guard forced entry into the poet's locked and barricaded room; brought him and his girlfriend, Dana Naone, against their will, to the party; and eventually stripped them of all their clothes, with onlookers ignoring Naone's pleas for help and for someone to call the police. The next day Trungpa asked Merwin and Naone to remain at the Seminary as either students or guests. They agreed to stay for several more weeks to hear the Vajrayana teachings, with Trungpa's promise that \"there would be no more incidents\" and Merwin's that there would be \"no guarantees of obedience, trust, or personal devotion to him.\" They left immediately after the last talk. In a 1977 letter to members of a Naropa class investigating the incident, Merwin concluded,\n\nMy feelings about Trungpa have been mixed from the start. Admiration, throughout, for his remarkable gifts; and reservations, which developed into profound misgivings, concerning some of his uses of them. I imagine, at least, that I've learned some things from him (though maybe not all of them were the things I was \"supposed\" to learn) and some through him, and I'm grateful to him for those. I wouldn't encourage anyone to become a student of his. I wish him well.\nThe incident became known to a wider public when Tom Clark published \"The Great Naropa Poetry Wars\". The Naropa Institute later asked Ed Sanders and his class to conduct an internal investigation, resulting in a lengthy report.\n\nEliot Weinberger commented on the incident in a critique aimed at Trungpa and Allen Ginsberg published in \"The Nation\" on April 19, 1980. He complained that the fascination of some of the best minds of his generation with Trungpa's presentation of Tibetan Buddhism and Tibetan theocracy created a dangerous exclusivity and elitism.\n\nAuthor Jeffery Paine commented on this incident that \"[s]eeing Merwin out of step with the rest, Trungpa could have asked him to leave, but decided it was kinder to shock him out of his aloofness.\" Paine also noted the outrage felt in particular by poets such as Robert Bly and Kenneth Rexroth, who began calling Trungpa a fascist.\n\nTrungpa's choice of Westerner Ösel Tendzin as his dharma heir was controversial, as Tendzin was the first Western Tibetan Buddhist lineage holder and Vajra Regent. This was exacerbated by Tendzin's own behavior as lineage holder. While knowingly HIV-positive, Tendzin was sexually involved with students, one of whom became infected and died.\n\n1940: Born in Kham, Eastern Tibet. Enthroned as eleventh Trungpa Tulku, Supreme Abbot of Surmang Monasteries, and Governor of Surmang District. Some put his birth in 1939.\n\n1944–59: Studies traditional monastic disciplines, meditation, and philosophy, as well as calligraphy, thangka painting, and monastic dance.\n\n1947: Ordained as a shramanera (novice monk).\n\n1958: Receives degrees of Kyorpön (Doctor of Divinity) and Khenpo (Master of Studies). Ordained as a bhikshu (full monk).\n\n1959–60: Follows the Dalai Lama to India during the 1959 Tibetan uprising, which failed to overthrow the Chinese government.\n\n1960–63: By appointment of the 14th Dalai Lama, serves as spiritual advisor to the Young Lamas' Home School in Dalhousie, India.\n\n1962: Fathers first son, Ösel Rangdröl (Mukpo), by a nun later referred to as Lady Kunchok Palden (or Lady Konchok Palden).\n\n1963–67: Attends Oxford University on a Spaulding scholarship, studying comparative religion, philosophy, and fine arts. Receives instructor's degree of the Sogetsu School of ikebana (Japanese flower arrangement).\n\n1967: Co-founds, with Akong Rinpoche, Kagyu Samyé Ling Monastery and Tibetan Centre, in Dumfriesshire, Scotland.\n\n1969: Travels to Bhutan and goes on solitary retreat.\n\n1969: Receives \"The Sadhana of Mahamudra\" terma text while on retreat in Paro Taktsang, a sacred cliffside monastery in Bhutan.\n\n1969: Becomes the first Tibetan British subject. Injured in a car accident, leaving him partially paralyzed.\n\n1970: After the accident Chögyam Trungpa renounces his monastic vows. He claims that the dharma needs to be free of cultural trappings to take root.\n\n1970: Marries wealthy sixteen-year-old English student Diana Judith Pybus.\n\n1970: Arrives in North America. Establishes Tail of the Tiger, a Buddhist meditation and study center in Vermont, now known as Karmê Chöling. Establishes Karma Dzong, a Buddhist community in Boulder, Colorado.\n\n1971: Begins teaching at University of Colorado. Establishes Rocky Mountain Dharma Center, now known as Shambhala Mountain Center, near Fort Collins, Colorado.\n\n1972: Initiates Maitri, a therapeutic program that works with different styles of neurosis using principles of the five buddha families. Conducts the Milarepa Film Workshop, a program which analyzes the aesthetics of film, on Lookout Mountain, Colorado.\n\n1973: Founds Mudra Theater Group, which stages original plays and practices theater exercises, based on traditional Tibetan dance. Incorporates Vajradhatu, an international association of Buddhist meditation and study centers, now known as Shambhala International. Establishes Dorje Khyung Dzong, a retreat facility in southern Colorado. Conducts first annual Vajradhatu Seminary, a three-month advanced practice and study program.\n\n1974: Incorporates Nalanda Foundation, a nonprofit, nonsectarian educational organization to encourage and organize programs in the fields of education, psychology, and the arts. Hosts the first North American visit of The Sixteenth Gyalwang Karmapa, head of the Karma Kagyü lineage. Founds The Naropa Institute, a contemplative studies and liberal arts college, now fully accredited as Naropa University. Forms the organization that will become the Dorje Kasung, a service group entrusted with the protection of the buddhist teachings and the welfare of the community.\n\n1975: Forms the organization that will become the Shambhala Lodge, a group of students dedicated to fostering enlightened society. Founds the Nalanda Translation Committee for the translation of Buddhist texts from Tibetan and Sanskrit. Establishes Ashoka Credit Union.\n\n1976: Hosts the first North American visit of Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, revered meditation master and scholar of the Nyingma lineage. Hosts a visit of Dudjom Rinpoche, head of the Nyingma lineage. Empowers Thomas F. Rich as his dharma heir, known thereafter as Vajra Regent Ösel Tendzin.\nEstablishes the Kalapa Court in Boulder, Colorado, as his residence and a cultural center for the Vajradhatu community. Receives the first of several Shambhala terma texts (see termas). These comprise the literary source for the Shambhala teachings. Founds Alaya Preschool in Boulder, Colorado.\n\n1977: Bestows the Vajrayogini abhisheka for the first time in the West for students who have completed ngöndro practice. Establishes the celebration of Shambhala Day. Observes a year-long retreat in Charlemont, Massachusetts. Founds Shambhala Training to promote a secular approach to meditation practice and an appreciation of basic human goodness. Visits Nova Scotia for the first time.\n\n1978: Conducts the first annual Magyal Pomra Encampment, an advanced training program for members of the Dorje Kasung. Conducts the first annual Kalapa Assembly, an intensive training program for advanced Shambhala teachings and practices. Conducts the first Dharma Art seminar. Forms Amara, an association of health professionals. Forms the Upaya Council, a mediation council providing a forum for resolving disputes. Establishes the Midsummer's Day festival and Children's Day.\n\n1979: Empowers his eldest son, Ösel Rangdröl Mukpo, as his successor and heir to the Shambhala lineage. Founds the Shambhala School of Dressage, an equestrian school under the direction of his wife, Lady Diana Mukpo. Founds Vidya Elementary School in Boulder, Colorado.\n\n1980–83: Presents a series of environmental installations and flower arranging exhibitions at art galleries in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Denver, and Boulder.\n\n1980: Forms Kalapa Cha to promote the practice of traditional Japanese Tea Ceremony. With the Nalanda Translation Committee, completes the first English translation of \"The Rain of Wisdom\".\n\n1981: Hosts the visit of the 14th Dalai Lama to Boulder, Colorado. Conducts the first annual Buddhist-Christian Conference in Boulder, Colorado, exploring the common ground between Buddhist and Christian contemplative traditions. Forms Ryuko Kyūdōjō to promote the practice of Kyūdō under the direction of Shibata Kanjuro Sensei, bow maker to the Emperor of Japan. Directs a film, \"Discovering Elegance\", using footage of his environmental installation and flower arranging exhibitions.\n\n1982: Forms Kalapa Ikebana to promote the study and practice of Japanese flower arranging.\n\n1983: Establishes Gampo Abbey, a Karma Kagyü monastery located in Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, for Western students wishing to enter into traditional monastic discipline. Creates a series of elocution exercises to promote precision and mindfulness of speech.\n\n1984–85: Observes a year-long retreat in Mill Village, Nova Scotia.\n\n1986: Moves his home and the international headquarters of Vajradhatu to Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\n1987: Dies in Halifax; cremated May 26 at Karmê Chöling. (His followers have constructed a chorten or stupa, The Great Stupa of Dharmakaya, located near Red Feather Lakes, Colorado, for his remains.)\n\n1989: The child recognized as his reincarnation, Chokyi Sengay, is born in Derge, Tibet; recognized two years later by Tai Situ Rinpoche.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9919443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9919443", "title": "Dating", "text": "Dating\n\nDating is a stage of romantic relationships in humans whereby two people meet socially with the aim of each assessing the other's suitability as a prospective partner in an intimate relationship or marriage. It is a form of courtship, consisting of social activities done by the couple, either alone or with others. The protocols and practices of dating, and the terms used to describe it, vary considerably from country to country and over time. While the term has several meanings, the most frequent usage refers to two people exploring whether they are romantically or sexually compatible by participating in dates with the other. With the use of modern technology, people can date via telephone or computer or meet in person.\n\nDating may also involve two or more people who have already decided that they share romantic or sexual feelings toward each other. These people will have dates on a regular basis, and they may or may not be having sexual relations. This period of courtship is sometimes seen as a precursor to engagement. Some cultures require people to wait until a certain age to begin dating, which has been a source of controversy.\n\nDating as an institution is a relatively recent phenomenon which has mainly emerged in the last few centuries. From the standpoint of anthropology and sociology, dating is linked with other institutions such as marriage and the family which have also been changing rapidly and which have been subject to many forces, including advances in technology and medicine. As humans societies have evolved from hunter-gatherers into civilized societies, there have been substantial changes in relations between people, with perhaps one of a few remaining biological constants being that both adult women and men must have sexual intercourse for human procreation to happen.\n\nHumans have been compared to other species in terms of sexual behavior. Neurobiologist Robert Sapolsky constructed a reproductive spectrum with opposite poles being tournament species, in which males compete fiercely for reproductive privileges with females, and pair bond arrangements, in which a male and female will bond for life. According to Sapolsky, humans are somewhat in the middle of this spectrum, in the sense that humans form pair bonds, but there is the possibility of cheating or changing partners. These species-particular behavior patterns provide a context for aspects of human reproduction, including dating. However, one particularity of the human species is that pair bonds are often formed without necessarily having the intention of reproduction. In modern times, emphasis on the institution of marriage, generally described as a male-female bond, has obscured pair bonds formed by same-sex and transgender couples, and that many heterosexual couples also bond for life without offspring, or that often pairs that do have offspring separate. Thus, the concept of marriage is changing widely in many countries.\n\nHistorically, marriages in most societies were arranged by parents and older relatives with the goal not being love but legacy and \"economic stability and political alliances\", according to anthropologists. Accordingly, there was little need for a temporary trial period such as dating before a permanent community-recognized union was formed between a man and a woman. While pair-bonds of varying forms were recognized by most societies as acceptable social arrangements, marriage was reserved for heterosexual pairings and had a transactional nature, where wives were in many cases a form of property being exchanged between father and husband, and who would have to serve the function of reproduction. Communities exerted pressure on people to form pair-bonds in places such as Europe; in China, society \"demanded people get married before having a sexual relationship\" and many societies found that some formally recognized bond between a man and a woman was the best way of rearing and educating children as well as helping to avoid conflicts and misunderstandings regarding competition for mates.\nGenerally, during much of recorded history of humans in civilization, and into the Middle Ages in Europe, weddings were seen as business arrangements between families, while romance was something that happened outside of marriage discreetly, such as covert meetings. The 12th-century book \"The Art of Courtly Love\" advised that \"True love can have no place between husband and wife.\" According to one view, clandestine meetings between men and women, generally outside of marriage or before marriage, were the precursors to today's dating.\n\nFrom about 1700 a worldwide movement perhaps described as the \"empowerment of the individual\" took hold, leading towards greater emancipation of women and equality of individuals. Men and women became more equal politically, financially, and socially in many nations. Women eventually won the right to vote in many countries and own property and receive equal treatment by the law, and these changes had profound impacts on the relationships between men and women. Parental influence declined. In many societies, individuals could decide—on their own—whether they should marry, whom they should marry, and when they should marry. A few centuries ago, dating was sometimes described as a \"courtship ritual where young women entertained gentleman callers, usually in the home, under the watchful eye of a chaperone,\" but increasingly, in many Western countries, it became a self-initiated activity with two young people going out as a couple in public together. Still, dating varies considerably by nation, custom, religious upbringing, technology, and social class, and important exceptions with regards to individual freedoms remain as many countries today still practice arranged marriages, request dowries, and forbid same-sex pairings. Although in many countries, movies, meals, and meeting in coffeehouses and other places is now popular, as are advice books suggesting various strategies for men and women, in other parts of the world, such as in South Asia and many parts of the Middle East, being alone in public as a couple with another person is not only frowned upon but can even lead to either person being socially ostracized.\n\nIn the twentieth century, dating was sometimes seen as a precursor to marriage but it could also be considered as an end-in-itself, that is, an informal social activity akin to friendship. It generally happened in that portion of a person's life before the age of marriage, but as marriage became less permanent with the advent of divorce, dating could happen at other times in peoples lives as well. People became more mobile. Rapidly developing technology played a huge role: new communication technology such as the telephone, Internet and text messaging enabled dates to be arranged without face-to-face contact. Cars extended the range of dating as well as enabled back-seat sexual exploration. In the mid-twentieth century, the advent of birth control as well as safer procedures for abortion changed the equation considerably, and there was less pressure to marry as a means for satisfying sexual urges. New types of relationships formed; it was possible for people to live together without marrying and without children. Information about human sexuality grew, and with it an acceptance of all types of sexual orientations is becoming more common. Today, the institution of dating continues to evolve at a rapid rate with new possibilities and choices opening up particularly through online dating.\n\nSocial rules regarding dating vary considerably according to variables such as country, social class, race, religion, age, sexual orientation and gender. Behavior patterns are generally unwritten and constantly changing. There are considerable differences between social and personal values. Each culture has particular patterns which determine such choices as whether the man asks the woman out, where people might meet, whether kissing is acceptable on a first date, the substance of conversation, who should pay for meals or entertainment, or whether splitting expenses is allowed. Among the Karen people in Burma and Thailand, women are expected to write love poetry and give gifts to win over the man. Since dating can be a stressful situation, there is the possibility of humor to try to reduce tensions. For example, director Blake Edwards wanted to date singing star Julie Andrews, and he joked in parties about her persona by saying that her \"endlessly cheerful governess\" image from movies such as \"Mary Poppins\" and \"The Sound of Music\" gave her the image of possibly having \"lilacs for pubic hair\"; Andrews appreciated his humor, sent him lilacs, dated him and later married him, and the couple stayed together for 41 years until his death in 2010.\n\nWhile the term \"dating\" has many meanings, the most common refers to a trial period in which two people explore whether to take the relationship further towards a more permanent relationship; in this sense, dating refers to the time when people are physically together in public as opposed to the earlier time period in which people are arranging the date, perhaps by corresponding by email or text or phone. Another meaning of the term \"dating\" is to describe a stage in a person's life when he or she is actively pursuing romantic relationships with different people. If two unmarried celebrities are seen in public together, they are often described as \"dating\" which means they were seen in public together, and it is not clear whether they are merely friends, exploring a more intimate relationship, or are romantically involved. A related sense of the term is when two people have been out in public only a few times but have not yet committed to a relationship; in this sense, \"dating\" describes an initial trial period and can be contrasted with \"being in a committed relationship\".\n\nOne of the main purposes of dating is for two or more people to evaluate one another's suitability as a long term companion or spouse. Often physical characteristics, personality, financial status, and other aspects of the involved persons are judged and, as a result, feelings can be hurt and confidence shaken. Because of the uncertainty of the whole situation, the desire to be acceptable to the other person, and the possibility of rejection, dating can be very stressful for all parties involved. Some studies have shown that dating tends to be extremely difficult for people with social anxiety disorder.\n\nWhile some of what happens on a date is guided by an understanding of basic, unspoken rules, there is considerable room to experiment, and there are numerous sources of advice available.\n\nThere are now more than 500 businesses worldwide that offer dating coach services—with almost 350 of those operating in the U.S. And the number of these businesses has surged since 2005\"\" Frequency of dating varies by person and situation; among singles actively seeking partners, 36% had been on no dates in the past three months, 13% had one date, 22% had two to four dates and 25% had five or more dates, according to a 2005 U.S. survey.\n\nThere are numerous ways to meet potential dates, including blind dates, classified ads, dating websites, hobbies, holidays, office romance, social networking, speed dating, and others. A Pew study in 2005 which examined Internet users in long-term relationships including marriage, found that many met by contacts at work or at school. The survey found that 55% of relationship-seeking singles agreed that it was \"difficult to meet people where they live.\" Work is a common place to meet potential spouses, although there are some indications that the Internet is overtaking the workplace as an introduction venue. In Britain, one in five marry a co-worker, but half of all workplace romances end within three months. One drawback of office dating is that a bad date can lead to \"workplace awkwardness.\"\n\nThere is a general perception that men and women approach dating differently, hence the reason why advice for each sex varies greatly, particularly when dispensed by popular magazines. For example, it is a common belief that heterosexual men often seek women based on beauty and youth. Psychology researchers at the University of Michigan suggested that men prefer women who seem to be \"malleable and awed\", and prefer younger women with subordinate jobs such as secretaries and assistants and fact-checkers rather than executive-type women. Online dating patterns suggest that men are more likely to initiate online exchanges (over 75%) and extrapolate that men are less \"choosy\", seek younger women, and \"cast a wide net\". In a similar vein, the stereotype for heterosexual women is that they seek well-educated men who are their age or older with high-paying jobs. Evolutionary psychology suggests that \"women are the choosier of the genders\" since \"reproduction is a much larger investment for women\" who have \"more to lose by making bad choices.\"\n\nAll of these are examples of gender stereotypes which plague dating discourse and shape individuals' and societies' expectations of how heterosexual relationships should be navigated. In addition to the detrimental effects of upholding limited views of relationships and sexual and romantic desires, stereotypes also lead to framing social problems in a problematic way. For example, some have noted that educated women in many countries including Italy and Russia, and the United States find it difficult to have a career as well as raise a family, prompting a number of writers to suggest how women should approach dating and how to time their careers and personal life. The advice comes with the assumption that the work-life balance is inherently a \"woman's problem.\" In many societies, there is a view that women should fulfill the role of primary caregivers, with little to no spousal support and with few services by employers or government such as parental leave or child care. Accordingly, an issue regarding dating is the subject of career timing which generates controversy. Some views reflect a traditional notion of gender roles. For example, Danielle Crittenden in \"What Our Mothers Didn't Tell Us\" argued that having both a career and family at the same time was taxing and stressful for a woman; as a result, she suggested that women should date in their early twenties with a seriousness of purpose, marry when their relative beauty permitted them to find a reliable partner, have children, then return to work in their early thirties with kids in school; Crittenden acknowledged that splitting a career path with a ten-year baby-raising hiatus posed difficulties. There are contrasting views which suggest that women should focus on careers in their twenties and thirties. Columnist Maureen Dowd quoted comedian Bill Maher on the subject of differing dating agendas between men and women: \"Women get in relationships because they want somebody to talk to -- men want women to shut up.\"\n\nIn studies comparing children with heterosexual families and children with homosexual families, there have been no major differences noted; though some claims suggest that kids with homosexual parents end up more well adjusted than their peers with heterosexual parents, purportedly due to the lack of marginalizing gender roles in same-sex families.\n\nIt is increasingly common today, however, with new generations and in a growing number of countries, to frame the work-life balance issue as a social problem rather than a gender problem. With the advent of a changing workplace, the increased participation of women in the labor force, an increasing number of men who are picking up their share of parenting and housework,\n\nThe prospect of love often entails anxiety, sometimes with a fear of commitment and a fear of intimacy for persons of both sexes. One woman said \"being really intimate with someone in a committed sense is kind of threatening\" and described love as \"the most terrifying thing.\" In her Psychology Today column, research scientist, columnist, and author Debby Herbenick compared it to a roller coaster:\n\nOne dating adviser agreed that love is risky, and wrote that \"There is truly only one real danger that we must concern ourselves with and that is closing our hearts to the possibility that love exists.\"\n\nWhat happens in the dating world can reflect larger currents within popular culture. For example, when the 1995 book \"The Rules\" appeared, it touched off media controversy about how men and women should relate to each other, with different positions taken by columnist Maureen Dowd of \"The New York Times\" and British writer Kira Cochrane of \"The Guardian\". and others. It has even caused anthropologists such as Helen Fisher to suggest that dating is a game designed to \"impress and capture\" which is not about \"honesty\" but \"novelty\", \"excitement\" and even \"danger\", which can boost dopamine levels in the brain. The subject of dating has spun off popular culture terms such as the \"friend zone\" which refers to a situation in which a dating relation evolves into a platonic non-sexual union.\n\nSince people dating often do not know each other well, there is the risk of violence, including date rape. According to one report, there was a 10% chance of violence between students happening between a boyfriend and girlfriend, sometimes described as \"intimate partner violence\", over a 12–month period. Another estimate was that 20% of U.S. high school girls aged 14–18 were \"hit, slapped, shoved or forced into sexual activity\". There is evidence that violence while dating isn't limited to any one culture or group or religion, but that it remains an issue in different countries. It is usually the female who is the victim, but there have been cases where males have been hurt as well. Sara McCorquodale suggests that women meeting strangers on dates meet initially in busy public places, share details of upcoming dates with friends or family so they know where they'll be and who they'll be with, avoid revealing one's surname or address, and conducting searches on them on the Internet prior to the date. One advisor suggested: Don't leave drinks unattended; have an exit plan if things go badly; and ask a friend to call you on your cell phone an hour into the date to ask how it's going. In some regions of the world, such as Chechnya, bride stealing is fairly common, enough to provoke leader Ramzan Kadyrov to urge young men to use persuasion instead. Kadyrov advised:\n\nThe Internet is shaping the way new generations date. Facebook, Skype, Whatsapp, and other applications have made remote connections possible. Particularly for the LGBTQ+ community, where the dating pool can be more difficult to navigate due to discrimination and having a 'minority' status in society.\n\nOnline dating tools are an alternate way to meet potential dates. Many people use smartphone apps such as Tinder, Grindr, or Bumble which allow a user to accept or reject another user with a single swipe of a finger. Some critics have suggested that matchmaking algorithms are imperfect and are \"no better than chance\" for the task of identifying acceptable partners. Others have suggested that the speed and availability of emerging technologies may be undermining the possibility for couples to have long-term meaningful relationships when finding a replacement partner has potentially become too easy.\n\nDating customs and habits vary considerably throughout the world. The average duration of courtship before proceeding to engagement or marriage varies considerably throughout the world.\n\nAccording to one source, there are four ways that marriage can happen among the Nyangatom people: (1) arranged marriage, when well-respected elders are sent to the girl's family on behalf of the boy's family; (2) courtship or dating after a friendly meeting between boy and girl such as at a market place or holiday where there's dancing; (3) abduction, such as during a blood feud between families; (4) inheritance.\n\nAsia is a mix of traditional approaches with involvement by parents and extended families such as arranged marriages as well as modern dating. In many cultural traditions, including some in South Asia, and the Middle East and to some extent East Asia, as in the case of Omiai in Japan and the similar \"Xiangqin\" (相親) practiced in the Greater China Area, a date may be arranged by a third party, who may be a family member, acquaintance, or professional matchmaker.\n\nPatterns of dating are changing in China, with increased modernization bumping into traditional ways.\n\nOne report in \"China Daily\" suggests that dating for Chinese university women is \"difficult\" and \"takes work\" and steals time away from academic advancement, and places women in a precarious position of having to balance personal success against traditional Chinese relationships. Women have high standards for men they seek, but also worry that their academic credentials may \"scare away more traditional Chinese men.\" It is difficult finding places to have privacy, since many dormitory rooms have eight or more pupils in one suite. And dating in restaurants can be expensive. One commentator noted: \"American couples drink and dance together. But in China, we study together.\" Professional single women can choose to wait:\n\nThe game show \"If You Are the One\", titled after Chinese personal ads, featured provocative contestants making sexual allusions and the show reportedly ran afoul of authorities and had to change its approach. The two-host format involves a panel of 24 single women questioning a man to decide if he'll remain on the show; if he survives, he can choose a girl to date; the show gained notoriety for controversial remarks and opinions such as model Ma Nuo saying she'd prefer to \"weep in a BMW than laugh on a bike\", who was later banned from making appearances.\n\nA new format of Internet \"QQ\" chat rooms is gaining ground against so-called \"traditional dating agencies\" in Changsha (Hunan Province); the QQ rooms have 20,000 members, and service is much less expensive than dating agencies which can charge 100 to 200 yuan ($13 to $26 USD) per introduction. Internet dating, with computer-assisted matchmaking, is becoming more prevalent; one site supposedly has 23 million registered users. Speed dating has come to Shanghai and other cities. Worldwide online matchmakers have explored entering the Chinese market via partnerships or acquisitions.\n\nThere are conflicting reports about dating in China's capital city. One account suggests that the dating scene in Beijing is \"sad\" with particular difficulties for expatriate Chinese women hoping to find romance. One explanation was that there are more native Chinese women, who seem to be preferred by Chinese men, and that expat women are seen as \"foreigners\" by comparison. According to the 2006 report, expat Chinese men have better luck in the Beijing dating scene. A different report, however, suggested that Chinese men preferred Western women, whom they consider to be more independent, less girlish, and more straightforward than Chinese women. Another account suggested that western women in Beijing seem \"invisible\" and have trouble attracting Chinese men.\n\nEach year, November 11 has become an unofficial holiday known as China's Singles' Day when singles are encouraged to make an extra effort to find a partner. Worried parents of unmarried children often arrange dates for their offspring on this day as well as others. Before the day approaches, thousands of college students and young workers post messages describing their plans for this day. In Arabic numerals, the day looks like \"1111\", that is, \"like four single people standing together\", and there was speculation that it originated in the late 1990s when college students celebrated being single with \"a little self-mockery\" but a differing explanation dates it back to events in the Roman Empire. For many, Singles' Day offers people a way to \"demonstrate their stance on love and marriage.\n\nThere is concern that young people's views of marriage have changed because of economic opportunities, with many choosing deliberately not to get married, as well as young marrieds who have decided not to have children, or to postpone having them. Cohabiting relationships are tolerated more often. Communities where people live but don't know each other well are becoming more common in China like elsewhere, leading to fewer opportunities to meet somebody locally without assistance. Divorce rates are rising in cities such as Shanghai, which recorded 27,376 divorces in 2004, an increase of 30% from 2003.\n\nA government-sponsored agency called Shanghai Women's Activities Centre (Chinese: Jinguoyuan) organized periodic matchmaking events often attended by parents.\n\nChinese-style flirtatiousness is termed \"sajiao\", best described as \"to unleash coquettishness\" with feminine voice, tender gestures, and girlish protestations. Chinese women expect to be taken care of (\"zhaogu\") by men like a baby girl is doted on by an attentive and admiring father. They wish to be almost \"spoiled\" (\"guan\") by a man buying gifts, entertainment, and other indulgences. It's a positive sign of \"heartache\" (\"xinteng\") when a man feels compelled to do \"small caring things\" for a woman without being asked such as pouring a glass of water or offering a \"piggyback ride if she's tired.\" These are signs of love and accepted romantic notions in China, according to one source.\n\nRomantic love is more difficult during times of financial stress, and economic forces can encourage singles, particularly women, to select a partner primarily on financial considerations. Some men postpone marriage until their financial position is more secure and use wealth to help attract women. One trend is towards exclusive matchmaking events for the 'rich and powerful'; for example, an annual June event in Wuhan with expensive entry-ticket prices for men (99,999 RMB) lets financially secure men choose so-called \"bikini brides\" based on their beauty and education, and the financial exclusivity of the event was criticized by the official news outlet \"China Daily\".\n\nRelationships between students preparing for college are frowned upon by many parents in China. There was a report that sexual relations among middle schoolers in Guangzhou sometimes resulted in abortions. There have been reports of scams involving get-rich-quick schemes; a forty-year-old migrant worker was one of a thousand seduced by an advertisement which read \"Rich woman willing to pay 3 million yuan for sperm donor\" but the worker was cheated out of his savings of 190,000 yuan (27,500 USD).\n\nIndian dating is heavily influenced by the custom of arranged marriages which require little dating, although there are strong indications that the institution is undergoing change, and that \"love marriages\" are becoming more accepted as India becomes more intertwined with the rest of the world. In the cities at least, it is becoming more accepted for two people to meet and try to find if there is compatibility.\nThe majority of Indian marriages are arranged by parents and relatives, and one estimate is that 7 of every 10 marriages are arranged. Sometimes the bride and groom don't meet until the wedding, and there is no courtship or wooing before the joining. In the past, it meant that couples were chosen from the same caste and religion and economic status. There is widespread support for arranged marriages generally. Writer Lavina Melwani described a happy marriage which had been arranged by the bride's father, and noted that during the engagement, the woman was allowed to go out with him before they were married on only one occasion; the couple married and found happiness. Supporters of arranged marriage suggest that there is a risk of having the marriage fall apart whether it was arranged by relatives or by the couple themselves, and that what's important is not how the marriage came to be but what the couple does after being married. Parents and relatives exert considerable influence, sometimes posting matrimonial ads in newspapers and online. Customs encourage families to put people together, and discourage sexual experimentation as well as so-called \"serial courtship\" in which a prospective bride or groom dates but continually rejects possible partners, since the interests of the family are seen as more important than the romantic needs of the people marrying. Indian writers, such as Mistry in his book \"Family Matters\", sometimes depict arranged marriages as unhappy. Writer Sarita Sarvate of \"India Currents\" thinks people calculate their \"value\" on the \"Indian marriage market\" according to measures such as family status, and that arranged marriages typically united spouses who often didn't love each other. She suggested \"love\" was out of place in this world because it risked passion and \"sordid\" sexual liaisons. Love, as she sees it, is \"Waking up in the morning and thinking about someone.\" Writer Jennifer Marshall described the wife in an arranged marriage as living in a world of solitude without much happiness, and feeling pressured by relatives to conceive a son so she wouldn't be considered as \"barren\" by her husband's family; in this sense, the arranged marriage didn't bring \"love, happiness, and companionship.\" Writer Vijaysree Venkatraman believes arranged marriages are unlikely to disappear soon, commenting in his book review of Shoba Narayan's \"Monsoon Diary\", which has a detailed description of the steps involved in a present-day arranged marriage. There are indications that even the institution of arranged marriages is changing, with marriages increasingly being arranged by \"unknown, unfamiliar sources\" and less based on local families who know each other. Writer Lavina Melwani in \"Little India\" compared Indian marriages to business deals:\n\nRelationships in which dating is undertaken by two people, who choose their dates without parental involvement and sometimes carry on clandestine get-togethers, has become increasingly common. When this leads to a wedding, the resulting unions are sometimes called \"love marriages\". There are increasing instances when couples initiate contact on their own, particularly if they live in a foreign country; in one case, a couple met surreptitiously over a game of cards. Indians who move abroad to Britain or America often follow the cultural patterns of their new country: for example, one Indian woman met a white American man while skiing, and married him, and the formerly \"all-important relatives\" were reduced to bystanders trying to influence things ineffectively. Factors operating worldwide, such as increased affluence, the need for longer education, and greater mobility have lessened the appeal for arranged marriages, and these trends have affected criteria about which possible partners are acceptable, making it more likely that pairings will cross previously impenetrable barriers such as caste or ethnic background. Indian Americans in the U.S. sometimes participate in \"Singles Meets\" organized by websites which happen about once a month, with 100 participants at each event; an organizer did not have firm statistics about the success rate leading to a long-term relationship but estimated about one in every ten members finds a partner through the site.\n\nDating websites are gaining ground in India. Writer Rupa Dev preferred websites which emphasized authenticity and screened people before entering their names into their databases, making it a safer environment overall, so that site users can have greater trust that it is safe to date others on the site. Dev suggested that dating websites were much better than the anonymous chatrooms of the 1990s.\n\nDuring the interval before marriage, whether it is an arranged or a love marriage, private detectives have been hired to check up on a prospective bride or groom, or to verify claims about a potential spouse made in newspaper advertising, and there are reports that such snooping is increasing. Detectives investigate former amorous relationships and can include fellow college students, former police officers skilled in investigations, and medical workers \"with access to health records.\"\n\nTranssexuals and eunuchs have begun using Internet dating in some states in India.\n\nThe practice of dating runs against some religious traditions, and the radical Hindu group Sri Ram Sena threatened to \"force unwed couples\" to marry, if they were discovered dating on Valentine's Day; a fundamentalist leader said \"drinking and dancing in bars and celebrating this day has nothing to do with Hindu traditions.\" The threat sparked a protest via the Internet which resulted in cartloads of pink panties being sent to the fundamentalist leader's office. as part of the Pink Chaddi Campaign (Pink Underwear/Panties Campaign). Another group, Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha, threatened to do the same, for which it was severely mocked online and on the day after Valentine's Day, had protesters outside its Delhi headquarters, with people (mockingly) complaining that it did not fulfill its \"promise\", with some having come with materials for the wedding rituals.\n\nThere is a type of courtship called \"Omiai\" in which parents hire a matchmaker to give resumes and pictures to potential mates for their approval, leading to a formal meeting with parents and matchmaker attending. If the couple has a few dates, they're often pressured by the matchmaker and parents to decide whether or not to marry.\n\nThe reasons for dating in Korea are various. Research conducted by \"Saegye Daily\" showed that teenagers choose to date for reasons such as \"to become more mature,\" \"to gain consultation on worries, or troubles,\" or \"to learn the difference between boys and girls,\" etc. Similarly, a news report in \"MK Daily\" showed that the primary reasons for dating for workers of age 20 ~ 30 are \"emotional stability,\" \"marriage,\" \"someone to spend time with,\" etc. An interesting feature in the reasons for dating in Korea is that many Koreans are somewhat motivated to find a date due to the societal pressure that often views single persons as incompetent.\n\nPresent Korean dating shows a changing attitude due to the influence of tradition and modernization. There are a lot of Confucian ideas and practices that still saturate South Korean culture and daily life as traditional values. Patriarchy in Korea has been grounded on Confucian culture that postulated hierarchical social orders according to age and sex. Patriarchy and Women Patriarchy is \"a system of social structure and practices in which men dominate, oppress and exploit women” which is well reflected in the ways of dating in Korea. Adding to it, there is an old saying that says a boy and a girl should not sit together after they have reached the age of seven. It is one of the old teachings of Confucianism and reveals its inclination toward conservatism.\n\nMost Koreans tend to regard dating as a precursor to marriage. According to a survey conducted by Gyeonggi-do Family Women's Researcher on people of age 26-44, 85.7% of respondents replied as ‘willing to get married’. There is no dating agency but the market for marriage agencies are growing continuously. DUO and Gayeon are one of the major marriage agencies in Korea. Also, \"Mat-sun\", the blind date which is usually based on the premise of marriage, is held often among ages of late 20s to 30s. But the late trend is leaning towards the separation between dating and marriage unlike the conservative ways of the past. In the survey conducted by a marriage agency, of 300 single males and females who were asked of their opinions on marrying their lovers, about only 42% of the males and 39% of the females said yes. There are also cases of dating without the premise of marriage. However, the majority still takes getting into a relationship seriously.\n\nDating in Korea is also considered a necessary activity supported by society. Korean adults are constantly questioned whether or not they are dating by the people around them. During family gatherings on holidays one of the questions that people hate getting asked the most is related to marriage. According to a survey it was the highest ranked by 47.3 percent.\n\nCollege students in their sophomore to junior year who have not been in a relationship feel anxious that they are falling behind amongst their peers. Most of them try \"sogaeting\", going out on a blind date, for the first time to get into a relationship. Dating is a duty that most people feel they must take on to not seem incompetent.\nIn recent trends, even dramas such as “”Shining Romance” (“빛나는 로맨스”), and “Jang Bo-ri is Here!” (“왔다 장보리”), and in a variety show called, “Dad! Where Are We Going?” (“아빠 어디가?”) there are elementary children confessing their love.\n\nDating has also been depicted to be an activity of fun and happiness. There are Korean TV programs that film celebrities together as married couples supporting this depiction of dating such as “We Got Married” (“우리 결혼했어요”), “With You” (“님과 함께”) and “The Man Who Gets Married Daily” (“매일 결혼 하는 남자.”)\n\nAccording to a survey by wedding consulting agency, men consider a physical relation as a catalyst of love, otherwise, women regard it as a confirmation of affection. Adding to it, both 79.2% of men and 71.0% of women stated that how deep their physical relation in dating is concerned in the decision of whether to marry.\n\nMarriages and courtship in Pakistan are influenced by traditional cultural practices similar to those elsewhere in the Indian subcontinent as well as Muslim norms and manners. Illegitimate relationships before marriage are considered a social taboo and social interaction between unmarried men and women is encouraged at a modest and healthy level. Couples are usually wedded through either an arranged marriage or love marriage. Love marriages are those in which the individuals have chosen a partner whom they like by their own choice prior to marriage, and usually occur with the consent of parents and family. Arranged marriages on the other hand are marriages which are set and agreed by the families or guardians of the two individuals where the couple may not have met before. In either cases and in consistency with traditional marital practices, individuals who marry are persuaded to meet and talk to each other for some time before considering marrying so that they can check their compatibility.\n\nSingapore's largest dating service, SDU, Social Development Unit, is a government-run dating system. The original SDU, which controversially promoted marriages among university graduate singles, no longer exists today. On 28 January 2009, it was merged with SDS [Social Development Services], which just as controversially promoted marriages among non-graduate singles. The merged unit, SDN Social Development Network seeks to promote meaningful relationships, with marriage touted as a top life goal, among all resident [Singapore] singles within a conducive network environment of singles, relevant commercial and public entities.\n\nOne report suggested that in southern Taiwan, \"traditional rules of courtship\" still apply despite the influence of popular culture; for example, men continue to take the initiative in forming relationships. A poll in 2009 of students at high schools and vocational schools found that over 90% admitted that they had \"no clear idea of how to approach someone of the opposite sex who interested them\". What caused relationships to break up? 60% said \"changes of heart\" or \"cheating\". Dating more than one person at a time was not permissible, agreed 70%.\n\nIn Britain, the term \"dating\" bears similarity to the American sense of the tentative exploratory part of a relationship. If two people are \"going out together\", it may mean they're dating but that their relationship has advanced to a relatively long-standing and sexual boyfriend-girlfriend relationship although they're not cohabiting. Although Britons are familiar with the term \"dating,\" the rituals surrounding courtship are somewhat different from those commonly found in North America. Writer Kira Cochrane advises daters to \"get out there and meet people\" while noting a trend of temporary suspension of marriage until an individual reaches his or her thirties. She sees a trend for developing new ways of meeting people. In contrast, writer Bibi van der Zee found dating etiquette rules to be helpful, and found that supposedly liberated advice such as \"just be yourself\" to be the \"most useless advice in history.\" She expresses frustration following fruitless sexual relationships, and that her mid twenties saw dating relationships with partners who were less willing to return phone calls or display interest in long-term commitment. She felt \"clueless and unwanted\", she wrote, and found advice books such as \"The Rules\" helpful. British writer Henry Castiglione signed up for a \"weekend flirting course\" and found the experience helpful; he was advised to talk to and smile at everyone he met. Emailing back-and-forth, after meeting on a dating website, is one way to get to know people in Britain, and elsewhere. In the UK, one estimate from 2009 is that 15 million people are single, and half of these are seeking a long-term relationship; three-quarters of them have not been in a relationship for more than 18 months. In a twelve-month period, the average number of dates that a single person will have is four. When dating, 43% of people google their dates ahead of time. Almost five million Britons visited a dating website in the past twelve months. A third admitting to lying on their profile. A fifth of married individuals between 19 and 25 met their spouse online. One poll in 2009 of 3,000 couples suggested that the average duration of their courtship period, between first meeting to the acceptance of a marriage proposal, was three years. In 2017 Britain online dating fraud victim numbers at record high. According to the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau, there were 3,889 victims of so-called romance fraud last year who handed over a record £39m. Online dating safety in the UK is a concern for authorities and individuals.\n\nWhile analysts such as Harald Martenstein and others suggest that it is easier for persons to initiate contact in America, many Germans view the American dating habits as \"unspontaneous\", \"ridiculous\" and \"rigid\". Until the 1960s, countries such as Germany, Switzerland and Austria had a more formal approach for first contacts that was eased during seasonal festivals like carnival and festivals and funfairs like the Oktoberfest, which allowed for more casual flirts.\n\nMembership in voluntary associations is relatively high in German-speaking countries and these provided further chances for possible partners to meet. Strolling on Esplanades and Promenade walkways such as the one in Hamburg called the Jungfernstieg (maidens way), have been another venue for introductions as early as the 19th century. Analyst Geoffrey Gorer described dating as an American idiosyncrasy focusing on youth of college age and expressed in activities such as American proms. In contrast German speaking countries and the longstanding musical tradition there provided ample opportunity of persons of varying ages enjoying social dances, such as the Vienna Opera Ball and other occasions.\n\nRomantic encounters were often described with French terms like rendezvous or tête-à-tête. The German term of \"Stelldichein\" (as translated by Joachim Heinrich Campes) is used to signify dating when the age of consent to marriage was relatively high. German traditions to signify lovers who met in hiding were described with terms like \"Fensterln\" (windowing) or \"Kiltgang\" (dawn stroll) used in Bavaria and Switzerland. Analyst Sebastian Heinzel sees a major cultural divide between American dating habits and European informality, and leads to instances in which European expatriates in cities such as New York keep to themselves.\n\nToday, most German couples in long-term relationships get to know each other through mutual friends, at work or while going out at night; the first few months of dating often involve sexual intercourse, but are still rather casual and do not imply a serious wish to get married.\n\nItalians maintain a conservative approach to dating. Also, inviting friends or relatives during a date is not uncommon. More modern approaches such as blind dates, speed dating and dating websites are not as popular as abroad, and are not considered very effective by the majority of the population. However, social network members outnumber the European average, and they may use Facebook for dating purposes too.\n\nOne report suggested Spanish women were the \"greatest flirts\", based on an unofficial study by a dating website which ranked countries based on initiations of contact.\n\nIn North Africa like in many parts of the Middle East, sex without marriage is considered unacceptable. Dating in North Africa is predominantly done under family supervision, usually in a public place.\n\nPeople of different sexes are not allowed to \"mix freely\" in public. Since 1979, the state has become a religious autocracy, and imposes Islamic edicts on matters such as dating. Clerics run officially sanctioned internet dating agencies with strict rules. Prospective couples can have three meetings: two with strict supervision inside the center, and the third being a \"brief encounter on their own\"; afterwards, they can either (1) choose to marry or (2) agree to never see each other again. This has become the subject of a film by Iranian filmmaker Leila Lak. Iran has a large population of young people with sixty percent of the 70-million population being under the age of thirty. However, economic hardship discourages marriage, and divorce rates have increased in Tehran to around a quarter of marriages, even though divorce is taboo. While the Iranian government \"condemns dating and relationships\", it promotes marriage with (1) online courses (2) \"courtship classes\" where students can \"earn a diploma\" after sitting through weekly tests and \"hundreds of hours of education\" (3) \"marriage diplomas\" (4) matchmaking and arranged marriages. Authorities push a conservative approach and shun unmarried romantic relationships and encourage \"traditional match-making\". But young people have disobeyed the restrictions; one said \"It is wiser to have different relationships\" and believed in defying religious rules which suggest \"short-term illegitimate relationships harm dignity.\" Adultery can be punished by death. While youths can flout selected restrictions, there are almost no instances in which unmarried people move in together. There have been efforts to promote \"Sigheh\" (temporary marriage).\n\nIn Israel, in the secular community, dating is very common amongst both heterosexual and homosexual couples. However, because of the religious community, there are some religious exceptions to the dating process.\nIn the Haredi and Chasidic communities (Ultra-Orthodox Judaism) most couples are paired through a matchmaker. In this arranged marriage system, young adults meet a couple times under the supervision of their parents, and after they meet, the two are asked whether they will agree to be married.\n\nFurthermore, in terms of marriage, because the state religion is essentially Orthodox-Judaism, Conservative and Reform (Liberal denominations of Judaism) Jews cannot get married through a Conservative or Reform Rabbi without the approval of the State's Orthodox Head Rabbi.\n\nThere are similar problems in Israel for people of different denominations of other religions as well. Essentially, if you live in Israel, and the head of your religion doesn't want you to get married, you can't get religiously married.\n\nBecause people of two different religions or people of the same sex cannot get married in Israel, people in these situations oftentimes have to go overseas to get married since Israel does recognize overseas marriages.\n\nOne report suggests the \"Lebanese dating game\" is hampered by \"the weight of family demands upon individual choice\" and that there were difficulties, particularly for people seeking to marry across religious lines, such as a Christian seeking to marry a Muslim.\n\nThe \"Saudi Gazette\" quoted a Wikipedia article on domestic violence, suggesting it was an issue for Saudis, including abusive behavior while dating by one or both partners.\n\nIn many cultures around the world, dating is a serious family matter, which is based on its culture and social values. Parents in said cultures believe in arranged marriage, or at least make sure that their children get married at a certain age. However, in the United States, independency plays an important role in how singles value and date others. In America, dating is mostly a personal decision rather than based on the influence of parents. However, parents still usually expect their children to get married, but is still their son or daughter's choice between whom they want to date or marry. Middle class tend to prioritize other things that are more important to them, such as get a college degree, a job, and then date their future spouse to settle down. Before the internet era, some Americans would meet their prospective husband or wife in college, through friends, at work, etc. But now is very popular that singles are trying to meet people on websites and from cell phone applications. Dating people online can create other social issues. For example, some individuals might get in the illusion that there are so many singles looking for your mate, therefore some can get into a bad habit of constantly meet new people, but do not want to get in a meaningful relationship and they may spend years dating looking for a perfect mate when in reality that does not exist. Online dating might add up the number of single people who are looking for a mate or a relationship that can lead them to a courtship since having so many choices can be difficult to make up your mind. http://library.cqpress.com/cqresearcher/document.php?id=cqresrre2015032000\n\nMeeting people from social sites might isolate us even more due to lack of communication face to face with friends and interact with new people on public places.\n\nOne report suggested the United States as well as other western-oriented countries were different from the rest of the world because \"love is the reason for mating,\" as opposed to marriages being arranged to cement economic and class ties between families and promote political stability. Dating, by mutual consent of two single people, is the norm. British writer Kira Cochrane, after moving to the U.S., found herself grappling with the American approach to dating. She wondered why it was acceptable to juggle \"10 potential partners\" while weighing different attributes; she found American-style dating to be \"exhausting and strange.\" She found dating in America to be \"organized in a fairly formal fashion\" with men approaching women and asking point blank for a date; she found this to be \"awkward.\" She described the \"third date rule\" which was that women weren't supposed to have sex until the third date even if they desired it, although men were supposed to try for sex. She wrote: \"Dating rules almost always cast the man as aggressor, and the woman as prey, which frankly makes me feel nauseous.\" Canadian writer Danielle Crittenden, however, chronicling female angst, criticized a tendency not to take dating seriously and suggested that postponing marriage into one's thirties was problematic:\n\nJournalist Emily Witt in 2016 wrote that while \"social mores had changed to accept a wider range of sexual practices\", there was still much \"loneliness and anxiety\". She traveled to San Francisco and began dating a lot, using Internet dating services and apps, and sometimes going to singles' bars alone, only to find that the \"romantic-comedy concept of love\" with a \"perfect, permanent, tea-for-two ending\" was not going to happen to her.\n\nThere is evidence that couples differ in the pace and timing with which they initiate sex in their relationships. Studies show that approximately 50% of premarital young adult couples become sexually involved within the first month of dating, while 25% initiate sex one to three months after beginning to date and a small proportion of couples wait until marriage before initiating sexual relations.\n\nTeenagers and college-aged students tend to avoid the more formal activity of dating, and prefer casual no-strings-attached experiments sometimes described as \"hookups\". It permits young women to \"go out and fit into the social scene, get attention from young men, and learn about sexuality\", according to one report by sociologists. The term \"hookup\" can describe a wide variety of behavior ranging from kissing to non-genital touching to make-out sessions; according to one report, only about one third of people had sexual intercourse. A contrary report, however, suggested there has been no \"sea change\" in sexual behavior regarding college students from 1988 onwards, and that the term \"hookup\" itself continued to be used to describe a variety of relationships, including merely socializing or passionate kissing as well as sexual intercourse.\n\nMuslims living in the United States can choose whether to use traditional Islamic methods, or date American-style; Muslims choosing to stick to Islamic tradition can \"only marry another Muslim\", according to one Malaysian account. Mosques have been known to try to bring people together––one in California has a dating service for Muslims.\n\nIn Australia, men typically ask out women for dates by text messaging. A recent study revealed that 50% of Australians agreed it was permissible to request a date via a text message but not acceptable to break up with them this way. Flirting while texting, dubbed \"flirtext\", was more likely to be done by girls after a relationship was started. A survey of newspaper readers suggested it was time to abandon the \"old fashioned rule\" of men paying for the first date, based on women's greater earning capacity. A dating show on TV features three couples who live under one roof, but who can only have contact in a \"specially created dark room\", and the show is scheduled to be hosted by Miss Australia model Laura Dundovic.\n\nIn Brazil there's a longer time interval before children move out of the house, which affects dating. As a result, parents offer advice about dating although it may not be heeded.\n\nA report in \"Psychology Today\" found that homosexual men were attracted to men in their late teens and early twenties and didn't care much about the status of a prospective partner; rather, physical attractiveness was the key. Gay men, on average, tend to have more sexual partners, while lesbians tended to form steadier one-on-one relationships, and tend to be less promiscuous than heterosexual women.\n\nIn India, transgender individuals and eunuchs have used Internet dating to help them find partners, but there continue to be strong societal pressures which marginalize these groups.\n\nPeople can meet other people on their own or the get-together can be arranged by someone else. Matchmaking is an art based entirely on hunches, since it is impossible to predict with certainty whether two people will like each other or not. \"All you should ever try and do is make two people be in the same room at the same time,\" advised matchmaker Sarah Beeny in 2009, and the only rule is to make sure the people involved want to be set up. One matchmaker advised it was good to match \"brains as well as beauty\" and try to find people with similar religious and political viewpoints and thinks that like-minded people result in more matches, although acknowledging that opposites sometimes attract. It is easier to put several people together at the same time, so there are other candidates possible if one doesn't work out. And, after introducing people, don't meddle.\n\nFriends remain an extremely common way for people to meet However, the Internet promises to overtake friends in the future, if present trends continue. A friend can introduce two people who don't know each other, and the friend may play matchmaker and send them on a blind date. In \"The Guardian\", British writer Hannah Pool was cynical about being set up on a blind date; she was told \"basically he's you but in a male form\" by the mutual friend. She googled her blind date's name along with the words \"wife\" and \"girlfriend\" and \"partner\" and \"boyfriend\" to see whether her prospective date was in any kind of relationship or gay; he wasn't any of these things. She met him for coffee in London and she now lives with him, sharing a home and business. When friends introduce two people who do not know each other, it is often called a blind date.\n\nParents, via their contacts with associates or neighbors or friends, can introduce their children to each other. In India, parents often place matrimonial ads in newspapers or online, and may post the resumes of the prospective bride or groom.\n\nDating systems can be systematic and organized ways to improve matchmaking by using rules or technology. The meeting can be in-person or \"live\" as well as separated by time or space such as by telephone or email or chat-based. The purpose of the meeting is for the two persons to decide whether to go on a date in the future.\n\n\n\nThe deception got worse. When he met his date who he had befriended online who he dubbed \"Facebook Guy\" for the first time, he wrote:\n\nComputer dating systems of the later 20th century, especially popular in the 1960s and 1970s, before the rise of sophisticated phone and computer systems, gave customers forms that they filled out with important tolerances and preferences, which were \"matched by computer\" to determine \"compatibility\" of the two customers. The history of dating systems is closely tied to the history of technologies that support them, although a statistics-based dating service that used data from forms filled out by customers opened in Newark, New Jersey in 1941. The first large-scale computer dating system, The Scientific Marriage Foundation, was established in 1957 by Dr. George W. Crane. In this system, forms that applicants filled out were processed by an IBM card sorting machine. The earliest commercially successfully computerized dating service in either the US or UK was Com-Pat, started by Joan Ball in 1964. Operation Match, started by Harvard University students a year later is often erroneously claimed to be the \"first computerized dating service.\" In actuality, both Com-Pat and Operation Match were preceded by other computerized dating services in Europe—the founders of Operation Match and Joan Ball of Com-Pat both stated they had heard about these European computer dating services and that those served as the inspiration for their respective ideas to create computer dating businesses. The longest running and most successful early computer dating business, both in terms of numbers of users and in terms of profits, was Dateline, which was started in the UK in 1965 by John Patterson. Patterson's business model was not fully legal, however. He was charged with fraud on several occasions for selling lists of the women who signed up for his service to men who were looking for prostitutes. Dateline existed until Patterson's death from alcoholism in 1997, and during the early 1990s it was reported to be the most profitable computer dating company in the world. In the early 1980s in New York City, software developer Gary Robinson developed a now–defunct dating service called \"212-Romance\" which used computer algorithms to match singles romantically, using a voice–mail based interface backed by community-based automated recommendations enhanced by \"collaborative filtering\" technologies. Compatibility algorithms and matching software are becoming increasingly sophisticated.\n\nOnline dating services are becoming increasingly prevalent worldwide. They charge a fee to enable a user to post a profile of himself or herself, perhaps using video or still images as well as descriptive data and personal preferences for dating, such as age range, hobbies, and so forth. Online dating is a $2 billion per year business, , with an annual growth rate of 5%. The industry is dominated by a few large companies, such as EHarmony, Zoosk and InterActiveCorp, or IAC, which owns several brands including Match.com and OkCupid. However new entrants continue to emerge.\n\nAn earlier report suggested that online dating businesses were thriving financially, with growth in members, service offerings, membership fees and with many users renewing their accounts, although the overall share of Internet traffic using online dating services in the U.S. has declined somewhat, from 2003 (21% of all Internet users) to 2006 (10%), and that dating sites must work to convince users that they're safe places having quality members. While online dating has become more accepted, it retains a slight negative stigma. There is widespread evidence that online dating has increased rapidly and is becoming \"mainstream\" with new websites appearing regularly. One study suggested that 18% of single persons had used the Internet for dating purposes. Reports vary about the effectiveness of dating web sites to result in marriages or long–term relationships. Pew Research, based on a 2005 survey of 3,215 adults, estimated that three million Americans had entered into long-term relationships or marriage as a result of meeting on a dating web site. While sites have touted marriage rates from 10% to 25%, sociologists and marriage researchers are highly skeptical that valid statistics underlie any such claims. The Pew study (see table) suggested the Internet was becoming increasingly prominent and accepted as a way to meet people for dates, although there were cautions about deception, the risk of violence, and some concerns about stigmas. The report suggested most people had positive experiences with online dating websites and felt they were excellent ways to meet more people. The report also said that online daters tend to have more liberal social attitudes compared to the general population. In India, parents sometimes participate in websites designed to match couples. Some online dating sites can organize double dates or group dates. Research from Berkeley suggests there's a dropoff in interest after online daters meet face–to–face. It's a \"lean medium\" not offering standard cues such as tone of voice, gestures, and facial expressions. There is substantial data about online dating habits; for example, researchers believe that \"the likelihood of a reply to a message sent by one online dater to another drops roughly 0.7 percent with every day that goes by\". Psychologist Lindsay Shaw Taylor found that even though people said they'd be willing to date someone of a different race, that people tend to choose dates similar to themselves.\n\nInternet \"QQ\" chat rooms. This type of dating approach, cheaper than traditional websites and agencies, is gaining ground in China.\n\n\n\"Mystery Date\" is a board game from the Milton Bradley Company, originally released in 1965 and reissued in 1970, 1999, and in 2005, whose object is to be ready for a date by acquiring three matching color-coded cards to assemble an outfit. The outfit must then match the outfit of the date at the \"mystery door\". If the player's outfit does not match the date behind the door, the door is closed and play continues. The game has been mentioned, featured, or parodied in several popular films and television shows.\n\nNumerous television reality and game shows, past and current, address dating. For example, the dating game shows \"The Dating Game\" first aired in 1965, while more modern shows in that genre include \"The Manhattan Dating Project\" (US Movie about Dating in New York City), \"Blind Date\", \"The 5th Wheel\", and \"The Bachelor\" and its spinoff series, in which a high degree of support and aids are provided to individuals seeking dates. These are described more fully here and in the related article on \"reality game shows\" that often include or motivate romantic episodes between players. Another category of dating-oriented reality TV shows involves matchmaking, such as \"Millionaire Matchmaker\" and \"Tough Love\".\n\nDating can happen for people in most age groups with the possible exception of young children. Teenagers and tweens have been described as dating; according to the CDC, three-quarters of eighth and ninth graders in the United States described themselves as \"dating\", although it is unclear what is exactly meant by this term.\n\nYoung persons are exposed to many in their high schools or secondary schools or college or universities. There is anecdotal evidence that traditional dating—one-on-one public outings—has declined rapidly among the younger generation in the United States in favor of less intimate sexual encounters sometimes known as \"hookups\" (slang), described as brief sexual experiences with \"no strings attached\", although exactly what is meant by the term \"hookup\" varies considerably. Dating is being bypassed and is seen as archaic, and relationships are sometimes seen as \"greedy\" by taking time away from other activities, although exclusive relationships form later. Some college newspapers have decried the lack of dating on campuses after a 2001 study was published, and conservative groups have promoted \"traditional\" dating. When young people are in school, they have a lot of access to people their own age, and don't need tools such as online websites or dating services. Chinese writer Lao Wai, writing to homeland Chinese about America, considered that the college years were the \"golden age of dating\" for Americans, when Americans dated more than at any other time in their life. There are indications people in their twenties are less focused on marriage but on careers\n\nPeople over thirty, lacking the recency of a college experience, have better luck online finding partners. Economist Sylvia Ann Hewlett in 2002 found that 55% of 35-year-old career women were childless, while 19% of male corporate executives were, and concluded that \"the rule of thumb seems to be that the more successful the woman, the less likely it is she will find a husband or bear a child.\"\n\nWhile people tend to date others close to their own age, it's possible for older men to date younger women. In many countries, the older-man-younger-woman arrangement is seen as permissible, sometimes with benefits. It's looked on more positively in the U.S. than in China; older men are described as more knowledgeable sexually and intellectually, supportive, skilled in the ways of women, and financially more secure so there's \"no more going Dutch.\" In China, older men with younger women are more likely to be described as \"weird uncles\" rather than \"silver foxes.\" One Beijing professor reportedly advised his male students to delay dating:\n\nA notable example of the older-woman-younger-man is Demi Moore pairing with 15-years-her-junior Ashton Kutcher. Older women in such relations have recently been described as \"cougars\", and formerly such relationships were often kept secret or discreet, but there is a report that such relationships are becoming more accepted and increasing.\n\nSince divorce is increasing in many areas, sometimes celebrated with \"divorce parties\", there is dating advice for the freshly divorced as well, which includes not talking about your ex or your divorce, but focusing on \"activities that bring joy to your life.\" Adviser Claire Rayner in \"The Guardian\" suggests calling people from your address book with whom you haven't been in touch for years and say \"I'd love to get back in contact.\" Do activities you like doing with like-minded people; if someone seems interesting to you, tell them. It's more acceptable for this group for women to ask men out.\n\n"}
{"id": "14507613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14507613", "title": "Eddie Hopson", "text": "Eddie Hopson\n\nEdward Lamar Hopson (born June 30, 1971) is a former professional boxer.\n\nBorn in St. Louis, Missouri, Hopson took up boxing at the age of seven. Hopson earned a Junior Olympics gold medal in 1987, and was the National Golden Gloves Featherweight Champion the following year. Later in 1988, he won the Olympic Trials in the featherweight division; after a semifinal victory against world amateur champion Kelcie Banks, Hopson took a 3–2 decision over Carl Daniels. However, at the Olympic Boxoffs, Hopson lost to Banks in a pair of fights; because of these losses, he did not compete in the 1988 Summer Olympics.\n\nKnown as \"Fast\" Eddie, Hopson turned pro in 1989 and captured the vacant International Boxing Federation super featherweight title in 1995 with a knockout win over Moises Pedroza. He lost the belt in his first defense, to Tracy Harris Patterson, later that year by 2nd round technical knockout (TKO), a round in which Hopson had four knockdowns recorded against him. Shortly afterward, Hopson lost via TKO to Santos Lopez and retired.\n\nHe had a brief comeback in 1998 but retired for good in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "18573295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18573295", "title": "Edward Farrell (physician)", "text": "Edward Farrell (physician)\n\nEdward Farrell (September 25, 1842–January 1, 1901) was a physician and political figure in Nova Scotia, Canada. He represented Halifax County from 1874 to 1878 as a Liberal member.\n\nHe was born in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, the son of Dominick Farrell, an Irish immigrant, and Mary Gorman. He was educated at Saint Mary's College and received his M.D. from the College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City. He worked at Bellevue Hospital for two years before returning to set up practice in Halifax. He was professor of surgery at Dalhousie College and then the Halifax Medical College. Farrell also served as surgeon at the Provincial and City Hospital, physician at the Halifax Visiting Dispensary, coroner for Halifax County and a member of the provincial Board of Health. In 1870, he married Mary Walsh. He served in the province's Executive Council as minister without portfolio. He ran unsuccessfully for a federal seat in 1891 and 1892. Farrell died in Halifax of pneumonia at the age of 58.\n\n"}
{"id": "6848263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6848263", "title": "Elyse Pahler", "text": "Elyse Pahler\n\nElyse Marie Pahler (April 24, 1980 – July 22, 1995) was a murder victim, whose parents attempted to sue the American thrash metal band Slayer, claiming that their music contributed to their daughter's death. Pahler was murdered in the summer of 1995.\n\nFifteen-year-old Elyse Pahler's body was discovered near her home in Arroyo Grande, California, in March 1996. She had been raped and murdered there eight months earlier by acquaintances Jacob Delashmutt, Joseph Fiorella and Royce Casey. The perpetrators apparently returned to the corpse and had sex with it on several occasions. The body was located after Casey confessed to the crime following a conversion to Christianity. All three eventually pleaded no contest to her murder and are now imprisoned and serving 25 years to life. \n\nThe trio had lured Elyse from her house with the stated intention of killing her as part of a satanic ritual, although the crime bears many of the hallmarks of similar sexually motivated murders. In their defense, the defendants said they had needed to commit a \"sacrifice to the devil\" in order to give their heavy metal band, Hatred, the \"craziness\" to \"go professional\".\n\nDavid and Lisanne Pahler claimed that the Slayer songs \"Postmortem\" and \"Dead Skin Mask\" (from the albums \"Reign in Blood\" and \"Seasons in the Abyss\", respectively) gave the three killers detailed instructions to \"stalk, rape, torture, murder and commit acts of necrophilia\" on their daughter. The lawsuit was originally filed in 1996 but delayed until 2000 when the killers' trial was concluded. The initial case was originally thrown out, the judge stating, \"There's not a legal position that could be taken that would make Slayer responsible for the girl's death. Where do you draw the line? You might as well start looking through the library at every book on the shelf.\"\n\nUndeterred, the Pahlers launched a second lawsuit claiming that Slayer \"knowingly distributed harmful material to minors.\" This case too was dismissed, with Judge E. Jeffrey Burke stating, \"I do not consider Slayer's music obscene, indecent or harmful to minors.\"\n\nJacob Delashmutt himself stated in a \"Washington Post\" interview that \"The music is destructive [but] that's not why Elyse was murdered. She was murdered because Joe [Fiorella] was obsessed with her, and obsessed with killing her.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2844974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2844974", "title": "Financial modeling", "text": "Financial modeling\n\nFinancial modeling is the task of building an abstract representation (a model) of a real world financial situation. This is a mathematical model designed to represent (a simplified version of) the performance of a financial asset or portfolio of a business, project, or any other investment. \n\nTypically, then, financial modeling is understood to mean an exercise in either asset pricing or corporate finance, of a quantitative nature. It is about translating a set of hypotheses about the behavior of markets or agents into numerical predictions. At the same time, \"financial modeling\" is a general term that means different things to different users; the reference usually relates either to accounting and corporate finance applications, or to quantitative finance applications. \n\nWhile there has been some debate in the industry as to the nature of financial modeling—whether it is a tradecraft, such as welding, or a science—the task of financial modeling has been gaining acceptance and rigor over the years. \n\nIn corporate finance and the accounting profession, \"financial modeling\" typically entails financial statement forecasting; usually the preparation of detailed company-specific models used for decision making purposes and financial analysis.\n\nApplications include: \n\nTo generalize as to the nature of these models: firstly, as they are built around financial statements, calculations and outputs are monthly, quarterly or annual; secondly, the inputs take the form of \"assumptions\", where the analyst \"specifies\" the values that will apply in each period for external / global variables (exchange rates, tax percentage, etc.…; may be thought of as the model \"parameters\"), and for internal / company specific \"variables\" (wages, unit costs, etc.…). Correspondingly, both characteristics are reflected (at least implicitly) in the mathematical form of these models: firstly, the models are in discrete time; secondly, they are deterministic. For discussion of the issues that may arise, see below; for discussion as to more sophisticated approaches sometimes employed, see Corporate finance #Quantifying uncertainty, and Financial economics #Corporate finance theory.\n\nModelers are often designated \"financial analyst\" (and are sometimes referred to (tongue in cheek) as \"number crunchers\") . Typically, the modeler will have completed an MBA or MSF with (optional) coursework in \"financial modeling\". Accounting qualifications and finance certifications such as the CIIA and CFA generally do not provide direct or explicit training in modeling. At the same time, numerous commercial training courses are offered, both through universities and privately.\n\nAlthough purpose built software does exist (see also Fundamental Analysis Software), the vast proportion of the market is spreadsheet-based; this is largely since the models are almost always company specific. Also, analysts will each have their own criteria and methods for financial modeling. (For the components /steps of business modeling here, see the list for \"Equity valuation\" under Outline of finance #Discounted cash flow valuation.) Microsoft Excel now has by far the dominant position, having overtaken Lotus 1-2-3 in the 1990s. Spreadsheet-based modelling can have its own problems, and several standardizations and \"best practices\" have been proposed. \"Spreadsheet risk\" is increasingly studied and managed; see model audit.\n\nOne critique here, is that model \"outputs\", i.e. line items, often incorporate \"unrealistic implicit assumptions\" and \"internal inconsistencies\". (For example, a forecast for growth in revenue but without corresponding increases in working capital, fixed assets and the associated financing, may imbed unrealistic assumptions about asset turnover, leverage and / or equity financing.) What is required, but often lacking, is that all key elements are explicitly and consistently forecasted. Related to this, is that modellers often additionally \"fail to identify crucial assumptions\" relating to \"inputs\", \"and to explore what can go wrong\". Here, in general, modellers \"use point values and simple arithmetic instead of probability distributions and statistical measures\" — i.e., as mentioned, the problems are treated as deterministic in nature — and thus calculate a single value for the asset or project, but without providing information on the range, variance and sensitivity of outcomes. Other critiques discuss the lack of basic computer programming concepts. More serious criticism, in fact, relates to the nature of budgeting itself, and its impact on the organization.\n\nThe Financial Modeling World Championships, known as ModelOff, have been held since 2012. ModelOff is a global online financial modeling competition which culminates in a Live Finals Event for top competitors. From 2012-2014 the Live Finals were held in New York City and in 2015, in London.\n\nIn quantitative finance, \"financial modeling\" entails the development of a sophisticated mathematical model. Models here deal with asset prices, market movements, portfolio returns and the like. A general distinction is between: \n\"quantitative financial management\", models of the financial situation of a large, complex firm; \n\"quantitative asset pricing\", models of the returns of different stocks; \n\"financial engineering\", models of the price or returns of derivative securities; \n\"quantitative corporate finance\", models of the firm's financial decisions.\n\nRelatedly, applications include: \nThese problems are generally stochastic and continuous in nature, and models here thus require complex algorithms, entailing computer simulation, advanced numerical methods (such as numerical differential equations, numerical linear algebra, dynamic programming) and/or the development of optimization models. The general nature of these problems is discussed under , while specific techniques are listed under Outline of finance# Mathematical tools. For further discussion here see also: Financial models with long-tailed distributions and volatility clustering; Brownian model of financial markets; Martingale pricing; Extreme value theory; Historical simulation (finance).\n\nModellers are generally referred to as \"quants\" (quantitative analysts), and typically have advanced (Ph.D. level) backgrounds in quantitative disciplines such as statistics, physics, engineering, computer science, mathematics or operations research. Alternatively, or in addition to their quantitative background, they complete a finance masters with a quantitative orientation, such as the Master of Quantitative Finance, or the more specialized Master of Computational Finance or Master of Financial Engineering; the CQF is increasingly common.\n\nAlthough spreadsheets are widely used here also (almost always requiring extensive VBA), custom C++, Fortran or Python, or numerical analysis software such as MATLAB, are often preferred, particularly where stability or speed is a concern. MATLAB is often used at the research or prototyping stage because of its intuitive programming, graphical and debugging tools, but C++/Fortran are preferred for conceptually simple but high computational-cost applications where MATLAB is too slow; Python is increasingly used due to its simplicity and large standard library. Additionally, for many (of the standard) derivative and portfolio applications, commercial software is available, and the choice as to whether the model is to be developed in-house, or whether existing products are to be deployed, will depend on the problem in question.\n\nThe complexity of these models may result in incorrect pricing or hedging or both. This \"Model risk\" is the subject of ongoing research by finance academics, and is a topic of great, and growing, interest in the risk management arena.\n\nCriticism of the discipline (often preceding the financial crisis of 2007–08 by several years) emphasizes the differences between the mathematical and physical sciences, and finance, and the resultant caution to be applied by modelers, and by traders and risk managers using their models. Notable here are Emanuel Derman and Paul Wilmott, authors of the \"Financial Modelers' Manifesto\". Some go further and question whether mathematical- and statistical modeling may be applied to finance at all, at least with the assumptions usually made (for options; for portfolios). In fact, these may go so far as to question the \"empirical and scientific validity... of modern financial theory\". Notable here are Nassim Taleb and Benoit Mandelbrot. See also Mathematical finance #Criticism and Financial economics #Challenges and criticism.\n\nGeneral\nCorporate finance\n\nQuantitative finance\n"}
{"id": "53662411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53662411", "title": "Gene amplification in Paramecium tetraurelia", "text": "Gene amplification in Paramecium tetraurelia\n\nGene amplification in \"Paramecium tetraurelia\" is an example of gene amplification that has occurred in the unicellular organism \"Paramecium tetraurelia\".\n\nGene duplication occurs in a large number of organisms as part of evolution or as the cause or result of disease (as in the case of the amylase genes in humans, and genes in cancer cells respectively). Gene duplication often leads to amplification of their gene products due to transcription and translation of all gene duplicates. Evidence of gene duplication has been observed the inheritance patterns of \"Paramecium tetraurelia\", a common model organism. In one strain of \"P. tetraurelia\", d4-95, a recessive mutant allele of a gene known as pawn-B found in this strain is inherited through gene duplication and amplification between generations, and even self-fertilizations. The inheritance of this allele is the first description of gene duplication and amplification in the micronucleus of ciliates. Additionally, it appears that the duplication of the mutant allele occurred after mutagenesis due to the similarity in nucleotide sequences of different copies of the mutant allele, especially in the coding region. When the d4-95 strain was crossed with a wild-type \"P. tetraurelia\", F2 and later progeny often expressed the phenotype of the pawn-B mutant, despite carrying a wild-type gene at the pawn-B locus. This phenotype was maintained in progeny even after the self-fertilization of theoretical wild-type homozygotes that had been recovered from the cross. \nAs is the case of other \"Paramecium\", \"P. tetraurelia\" exhibits a number of non-Mendelian modes of inheritance, partially due to the existence of both macro- and micronuclei. In both the macro- and micronucleus of the d4-95 strain of \"P. tetraurelia\" contained many more copies of the mutant gene than in the wild type strain. This occurs due to the ability of most of the extra pawn-B gene copies to be heritable independently from the original pawn-B locus. Additionally, there is evidence that in the development of the macronucleus between generations, there is differential gene duplication of copies of pawn-B which causes variable amplification of the allele – between four and twelve times – and heterogeneity between the copies. This duplication leads to amplification of the gene that suppresses the expression of any non-mutant pawn-B loci. Duplication also occurs in the micronucleus, where considerably higher numbers of copies of the pawn-B mutant have been found than the number of copies of the wild-type non-mutant. Additionally, the number of copies can be decreased in progeny by “diluting” the copies of the mutant allele through backcrossing with the wild-type parent, over multiple generations. As the number of copies of the pawn-B mutant decrease, the progeny eventually return to Mendelian inheritance of the wild-type pawn-B alleles. \n\nWhile the exact structure of the amplified copies of the allele in the micronucleus is not currently known, it appears to be consistent with the original micronuclear locus, as opposed to the locus of the macronucleus, which includes regions not found in the micronuclear locus. Additionally, in some of the backcrosses, extra copies of the gene were still present, even after multiple generations. It is not clear whether this is due to tight linkage of the gene copies to the original locus, or because of continued gene duplication of the remaining copies, but it appears that it is more likely due to continued duplication, as the number of copies of the mutant pawn-B vary between the independent clones; it is also possible that there is an extrachromosomal element that plays a role, which has been observed in other protozoa.\n"}
{"id": "161999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161999", "title": "Idea", "text": "Idea\n\nIn philosophy, ideas are usually taken as mental representational images of some object. Ideas can also be abstract concepts that do not present as mental images. Many philosophers have considered ideas to be a fundamental ontological category of being. The capacity to create and understand the meaning of ideas is considered to be an essential and defining feature of human beings. In a popular sense, an idea arises in a reflexive, spontaneous manner, even without thinking or serious reflection, for example, when we talk about the \"idea\" of a person or a place. A new or original idea can often lead to innovation.\n\nThe word \"idea\" comes from Greek ἰδέα \"idea\" \"form, pattern,\" from the root of ἰδεῖν \"idein\", \"to see.\" \n\nOne view on the nature of ideas is that there exist some ideas (called \"innate ideas\") which are so general and abstract that they could not have arisen as a representation of an object of our perception but rather were in some sense always present. These are distinguished from \"adventitious ideas\" which are images or concepts which are accompanied by the judgment that they are caused or occasioned by an external object.\n\nAnother view holds that we only discover ideas in the same way that we discover the real world, from personal experiences. The view that humans acquire all or almost all their behavioral traits from nurture (life experiences) is known as \"tabula rasa\" (\"blank slate\"). Most of the confusions in the way ideas arise is at least in part due to the use of the term \"idea\" to cover both the representation perceptics and the object of conceptual thought. This can be always illustrated in terms of the scientific doctrines of innate ideas, \"concrete ideas versus abstract ideas\", as well as \"simple ideas versus complex ideas\".\n\nPlato in Ancient Greece was one of the earliest philosophers to provide a detailed discussion of ideas and of the thinking process (it must be noted that in Plato's Greek the word \"idea\" carries a rather different sense from our modern English term). Plato argued in dialogues such as the \"Phaedo\", \"Symposium\", \"Republic\", and \"Timaeus\" that there is a realm of ideas or forms (\"eidei\"), which exist independently of anyone who may have thoughts on these ideas, and it is the ideas which distinguish mere opinion from knowledge, for unlike material things which are transient and liable to contrary properties, ideas are unchanging and nothing but just what they are. Consequently, Plato seems to assert forcefully that material things can only be the objects of opinion; real knowledge can only be had of unchanging ideas. Furthermore, ideas for Plato appear to serve as universals; consider the following passage from the \"Republic\":\nDescartes often wrote of the meaning of \"idea\" as an image or representation, often but not necessarily \"in the mind\", which was well known in the vernacular. Despite that Descartes is usually credited with the invention of the non-Platonic use of the term, he at first followed this vernacular use. In his \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" he says, \"Some of my thoughts are like images of things, and it is to these alone that the name 'idea' properly belongs.\" He sometimes maintained that ideas were innate and uses of the term \"idea\" diverge from the original primary scholastic use. He provides multiple non-equivalent definitions of the term, uses it to refer to as many as six distinct kinds of entities, and divides \"ideas\" inconsistently into various genetic categories. For him knowledge took the form of ideas and philosophical investigation is the deep consideration of these entities.\n\nIn striking contrast to Plato's use of idea is that of John Locke. In his Introduction to An Essay Concerning Human Understanding, Locke defines \"idea\" as \"that term which, I think, serves best to stand for whatsoever is the object of the understanding when a man thinks, I have used it to express whatever is meant by phantasm, notion, species, or whatever it is which the mind can be employed about in thinking; and I could not avoid frequently using it.\" He said he regarded the book necessary to examine our own abilities and see what objects our understandings were, or were not, fitted to deal with. In his philosophy other outstanding figures followed in his footsteps — Hume and Kant in the 18th century, Arthur Schopenhauer in the 19th century, and Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, and Karl Popper in the 20th century. Locke always believed in \"good sense\" — not pushing things to extremes and on taking fully into account the plain facts of the matter. He considered his common-sense ideas \"good-tempered, moderate, and down-to-earth.\"\n\nAs John Locke studied humans in his work “An Essay Concerning Human Understanding” he continually referenced Descartes for ideas as he asked this fundamental question: “When we are concerned with something about which we have no certain knowledge, what rules or standards should guide how confident we allow ourselves to be that our opinions are right?” A simpler way of putting it is how do humans know ideas, and what are the different types of ideas. An idea to Locke “can simply mean some sort of brute experience.” He shows that there are “No innate principles in the mind.”. Thus, he concludes that “our ideas are all experiential in nature.” An experience can either be a sensation or a reflection: “consider whether there are any innate ideas in the mind before any are brought in by the impression from sensation or reflection.” Therefore, an idea was an experience in which the human mind apprehended something.\n\nIn a Lockean view, there are really two types of ideas: complex and simple. Simple ideas are the building blocks for much more complex ideas, and “While the mind is wholly passive in the reception of simple ideas, it is very active in the building of complex ideas…” Complex ideas, therefore, can either be modes, substances, or relations. Modes are when ideas are combined in order to convey new information. For instance, David Banach gives the example of beauty as a mode. He says that it is the combination of color and form. Substances, however, is different. Substances are certain objects, that can either be dogs, cats, or tables. And relations represent the relationship between two or more ideas. In this way, Locke did, in fact, answer his own questions about ideas and humans.\n\nHume differs from Locke by limiting \"idea\" to the more or less vague mental reconstructions of perceptions, the perceptual process being described as an \"impression.\" Hume shared with Locke the basic empiricist premise that it is only from life experiences (whether their own or others') that humans' knowledge of the existence of anything outside of themselves can be ultimately derived, that they shall carry on doing what they are prompted to do by their emotional drives of varying kinds. In choosing the means to those ends, they shall follow their accustomed associations of ideas. Hume has contended and defended the notion that \"reason alone is merely the 'slave of the passions'.\" \n\nImmanuel Kant defines an \"idea\" as opposed to a \"concept\". \"Regulative ideas\" are ideals that one must tend towards, but by definition may not be completely realized. Liberty, according to Kant, is an idea. The autonomy of the rational and universal subject is opposed to the determinism of the empirical subject. Kant felt that it is precisely in knowing its limits that philosophy exists. The business of philosophy he thought was not to give rules, but to analyze the private judgements of good common sense.\n\nWhereas Kant declares limits to knowledge (\"we can never know the thing in itself\"), in his epistemological work, Rudolf Steiner sees \"ideas\" as \"objects of experience\" which the mind apprehends, much as the eye apprehends light. In \"Goethean Science\" (1883), he declares, \"Thinking ... is no more and no less an organ of perception than the eye or ear. Just as the eye perceives colors and the ear sounds, so thinking perceives ideas.\" He holds this to be the premise upon which Goethe made his natural-scientific observations.\n\nWundt widens the term from Kant's usage to include \"conscious representation of some object or process of the external world\". In so doing, he includes not only ideas of memory and imagination, but also perceptual processes, whereas other psychologists confine the term to the first two groups. One of Wundt's main concerns was to investigate conscious processes in their own context by experiment and introspection. He regarded both of these as \"exact methods\", interrelated in that experimentation created optimal conditions for introspection. Where the experimental method failed, he turned to other \"objectively valuable aids\", specifically to \"those products of cultural communal life which lead one to infer particular mental motives. Outstanding among these are speech, myth, and social custom.\" Wundt designed the basic mental activity apperception — a unifying function which should be understood as an activity of the will. Many aspects of his empirical physiological psychology are used today. One is his principles of mutually enhanced contrasts and of assimilation and dissimilation (i.e. in color and form perception and his advocacy of \"objective\" methods of expression and of recording results, especially in language. Another is the principle of heterogony of ends — that multiply motivated acts lead to unintended side effects which in turn become motives for new actions.\n\nC. S. Peirce published the first full statement of pragmatism in his important works \"\" (1878) and \"\" (1877). In \"How to Make Our Ideas Clear\" he proposed that a \"clear idea\" (in his study he uses concept and \"idea\" as synonymic) is defined as one, when it is apprehended such as it will be recognized wherever it is met, and no other will be mistaken for it. If it fails of this clearness, it is said to be obscure. He argued that to understand an idea clearly we should ask ourselves what difference its application would make to our evaluation of a proposed solution to the problem at hand. Pragmatism (a term he appropriated for use in this context), he defended, was a method for ascertaining the meaning of terms (as a theory of meaning). The originality of his ideas is in their rejection of what was accepted as a view and understanding of knowledge by scientists for some 250 years, i.e. that, he pointed, knowledge was an impersonal fact. Peirce contended that we acquire knowledge as \"participants\", not as \"spectators\". He felt \"the real\", sooner or later, is information acquired through ideas and knowledge with the application of logical reasoning would finally result in. He also published many papers on logic in relation to \"ideas\".\n\nG. F. Stout and J. M. Baldwin, in the \"Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology\", define \"idea\" as \"the reproduction with a more or less adequate image, of an object not actually present to the senses.\" They point out that an idea and a perception are by various authorities contrasted in various ways. \"Difference in degree of intensity\", \"comparative absence of bodily movement on the part of the subject\", \"comparative dependence on mental activity\", are suggested by psychologists as characteristic of an idea as compared with a perception.\n\nIt should be observed that an idea, in the narrower and generally accepted sense of a mental reproduction, is frequently composite. That is, as in the example given above of the idea of a chair, a great many objects, differing materially in detail, all call a single idea. When a man, for example, has obtained an idea of chairs in general by comparison with which he can say \"This is a chair, that is a stool\", he has what is known as an \"abstract idea\" distinct from the reproduction in his mind of any particular chair (see abstraction). Furthermore, a complex idea may not have any corresponding physical object, though its particular constituent elements may severally be the reproductions of actual perceptions. Thus the idea of a centaur is a complex mental picture composed of the ideas of man and horse, that of a mermaid of a woman and a fish.\n\nDiffusion studies explore the spread of ideas from culture to culture. Some anthropological theories hold that all cultures imitate ideas from one or a few original cultures, the Adam of the Bible, or several cultural circles that overlap. Evolutionary diffusion theory holds that cultures are influenced by one another but that similar ideas can be developed in isolation.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, social scientists began to study how and why ideas spread from one person or culture to another. Everett Rogers pioneered diffusion of innovations studies, using research to prove factors in adoption and profiles of adopters of ideas. In 1976, in his book \"The Selfish Gene\", Richard Dawkins suggested applying biological evolutionary theories to the spread of ideas. He coined the term \"meme\" to describe an abstract unit of selection, equivalent to the gene in evolutionary biology.\n\nJames Boswell recorded Samuel Johnson's opinion about ideas. Johnson claimed that they are mental images or internal visual pictures. As such, they have no relation to words or the concepts which are designated by verbal names.\n\nTo protect the cause of invention and innovation, the legal constructions of Copyrights and Patents were established. Patent law regulates various aspects related to the functional manifestation of inventions based on new ideas or incremental improvements to existing ones. Thus, patents have a direct relationship to ideas.\n\nIn some cases, authors can be granted limited legal monopolies on the manner in which certain works are expressed. This is known colloquially as copyright, although the term intellectual property is used mistakenly in place of \"copyright\". Copyright law regulating the aforementioned monopolies generally does not cover the actual ideas. The law does not bestow the legal status of property upon ideas per se. Instead, laws purport to regulate events related to the usage, copying, production, sale and other forms of exploitation of the fundamental expression of a work, that may or may not carry ideas. Copyright law is fundamentally different from patent law in this respect: patents do grant monopolies on ideas (more on this below).\n\nA copyright is meant to regulate some aspects of the usage of expressions of a work, \"not\" an idea. Thus, copyrights have a negative relationship to ideas.\n\nWork means a tangible medium of expression. It may be an original or derivative work of art, be it literary, dramatic, musical recitation, artistic, related to sound recording, etc. In (at least) countries adhering to the Berne Convention, copyright automatically starts covering the work upon the original creation and fixation thereof, without any extra steps. While creation usually involves an idea, the idea in itself does not suffice for the purposes of claiming copyright. \nConfidentiality and nondisclosure agreements are legal instruments that assist corporations and individuals in keeping ideas from escaping to the general public. Generally, these instruments are covered by contract law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "416005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416005", "title": "Indeterminism", "text": "Indeterminism\n\nIndeterminism is the idea that events (or certain events, or events of certain types) are not caused, or not caused deterministically.\n\nIt is the opposite of determinism and related to chance. It is highly relevant to the philosophical problem of free will, particularly in the form of metaphysical libertarianism. In science, most specifically quantum theory in physics, indeterminism is the belief that no event is certain and the entire outcome of anything is probabilistic. The Heisenberg uncertainty relations and the \"Born rule\", proposed by Max Born, are often starting points in support of the indeterministic nature of the universe. Indeterminism is also asserted by Sir Arthur Eddington, and Murray Gell-Mann. Indeterminism has been promoted by the French biologist Jacques Monod's essay \"Chance and Necessity\".\nThe physicist-chemist Ilya Prigogine argued for indeterminism in complex systems.\nIndeterminists do not have to deny that causes exist. Instead, they can maintain that the only causes that exist are of a type that do not constrain the future to a single course; for instance, they can maintain that only necessary and not sufficient causes exist. The necessary/sufficient distinction works as follows:\n\nIf \"x\" is a necessary cause of \"y\"; then the presence of \"y\" necessarily implies that \"x\" preceded it. The presence of \"x\", however, does not imply that \"y\" will occur.\n\nIf \"x\" is a sufficient cause of \"y\", then the presence of \"x\" necessarily implies the presence of \"y\". (However, another cause \"z\" may alternatively cause \"y\". Thus the presence of \"y\" does not imply the presence of \"x\".)\n\nAs Daniel Dennett points out in \"Freedom Evolves\", it is possible for everything to have a necessary cause, even while indeterminism holds and the future is open, because a necessary condition does not lead to a single inevitable effect. Thus \"everything has a cause\" is, in his opinion, not a clear statement of determinism. Still, a question might arise why this and not that effect occurred: as long as a cause (something in the past) determines the answer to the question \"effect A or B\" (or \"why\" A or B), determinism will hold. On this basis \"everything has a cause\" might still be understood as an expression of determinism.\n\nInterpreting causation as a deterministic relation means that if \"A\" causes \"B\", then \"A\" must always be followed by \"B\". In this sense, war does not cause deaths, nor does smoking cause cancer. As a result, many turn to a notion of probabilistic causation. Informally, \"A\" probabilistically causes \"B\" if \"A\"'s occurrence increases the probability of \"B\". This is sometimes interpreted to reflect the imperfect knowledge of a deterministic system but other times interpreted to mean that the causal system under study has an inherently indeterministic nature. (Propensity probability is an analogous idea, according to which probabilities have an objective existence and are not just limitations in a subject's knowledge).\n\nIt can be proved that realizations of any probability distribution other than the uniform one are mathematically equal to applying a (deterministic) function (namely, an inverse distribution function) on a random variable following the latter (i.e. an \"absolutely random\" one); the probabilities are contained in the deterministic element. A simple form of demonstrating it would be shooting randomly within a square and then (deterministically) interpreting a relatively large subsquare as the more probable outcome.\n\nA distinction is generally made between indeterminism and the mere inability to measure the variables (limits of precision). This is especially the case for physical indeterminism (as proposed by various interpretations of quantum mechanics). Yet some philosophers have argued that indeterminism and unpredictability are synonymous.\n\nOne of the important philosophical implications of determinism is that, according to incompatibilists, it undermines many versions of free will. Correspondingly, believers in free will\noften appeal to physical indeterminism. (See compatibilism for a third option.)\n\nThe first major philosopher to argue convincingly for some indeterminism was probably Aristotle. He described four possible causes (material, efficient, formal, and final). Aristotle's word for these causes was αἰτίαι (\"aitiai\", as in \"aetiology\"), which translates as causes in the sense of the multiple factors responsible for an event. Aristotle did not subscribe to the simplistic \"every event has a (single) cause\" idea that was to come later.\n\nIn his \"Physics\" and \"Metaphysics\", Aristotle said there were accidents (συμβεβηκός, \"sumbebekos\") caused by nothing but chance (τύχη, \"tukhe\"). He noted that he and the early physicists found no place for chance among their causes.\n\nAristotle opposed his accidental chance to necessity:\n\nOne generation after Aristotle, Epicurus argued that as atoms moved through the void, there were occasions when they would \"swerve\" (\"clinamen\") from their otherwise determined paths, thus initiating new causal chains. Epicurus argued that these swerves would allow us to be more responsible for our actions, something impossible if every action was deterministically caused. For Epicurus, the occasional interventions of arbitrary gods would be preferable to strict determinism.\n\nThe first concept of \"chance\" is found in the Atomism of Leucippus, often confused with that of Democritus, though, in fact, the last studies show many differences between the two. The first assertion about chance is the Leucippus fragment that says:\n<br>\n<br>\"The cosmos, then, became like a spherical form in this way: the atoms being submitted to a casual and unpredictable movement, quickly and incessantly\".\n\nIn 1729 the\"Testament\" of Jean Meslier states:\n\n\"The matter, by virtue of its own active force, moves and acts in blind manner\". \n\nSoon after Julien Offroy de la Mettrie in his \"L'Homme Machine.\" (1748, anon.) wrote:\n\n\"Perhaps, the cause of man's existence is just in existence itself? Perhaps he is by chance thrown in some point of this terrestrial surface without any \"how\" and \"why\"\". \n\nIn his \"Anti-Sénèque\" [\"Traité de la vie heureuse, par Sénèque, avec un Discours du traducteur sur le même sujet\", 1750] we read:\n\n\"Then, the chance has thrown us in life\".\n\nIn the 19th century the French Philosopher Antoine-Augustin Cournot theorized \"chance\" in a new way, as series of not-linear causes. He wrote in \"Essai sur les fondements de nos connaissances\" (1851):\n\n\"It is not because of rarity that the chance is actual. On the contrary, it is because of chance they produce many possible others.\" \n\nTychism ( \"chance\") is a thesis proposed by the American philosopher Charles Sanders Peirce in the 1890s. It holds that absolute chance, also called spontaneity, is a real factor operative in the universe. It may be considered both the direct opposite of Einstein's oft quoted dictum that: \"God does not play dice with the universe\" and an early philosophical anticipation of Werner Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.\n\nPeirce does not, of course, assert that there is \"no\" law in the universe. On the contrary, he maintains that an absolutely chance world would be a contradiction and thus impossible.\nComplete lack of order is itself a sort of order. The position he advocates is rather that there are in the universe both regularities and irregularities.\n\nKarl Popper comments that Peirce's theory received little contemporary attention, and that other philosophers did not adopt indeterminism until the rise of quantum mechanics.\n\nIn 1931, Arthur Holly Compton championed the idea of human freedom based on quantum indeterminacy and invented the notion of amplification of microscopic quantum events to bring chance into the macroscopic world. In his somewhat bizarre mechanism, he imagined sticks of dynamite attached to his amplifier, anticipating the Schrödinger's cat paradox.\n\nReacting to criticisms that his ideas made chance the direct cause of our actions, Compton clarified the two-stage nature of his idea in an \"Atlantic Monthly\" article in 1955. First there is a range of random possible events, then one adds a determining factor in the act of choice.\n\nA set of known physical conditions is not adequate to specify precisely what a forthcoming event will be. These conditions, insofar as they can be known, define instead a range of possible events from among which some particular event will occur. When one exercises freedom, by his act of choice he is himself adding a factor not supplied by the physical conditions and is thus himself determining what will occur. That he does so is known only to the person himself. From the outside one can see in his act only the working of physical law. It is the inner knowledge that he is in fact doing what he intends to do that tells the actor himself that he is free.\nCompton welcomed the rise of indeterminism in 20th century science, writing:\nIn my own thinking on this vital subject I am in a much more satisfied state of mind than I could have been at any earlier stage of science. If the statements of the laws of physics were assumed correct, one would have had to suppose (as did most philosophers) that the feeling of freedom is illusory, or if [free] choice were considered effective, that the laws of physics ... [were] unreliable. The dilemma has been an uncomfortable one.\nTogether with Arthur Eddington in Britain, Compton was one of those rare distinguished physicists in the English speaking world of the late 1920s and throughout the 1930s arguing for the “liberation of free will” with the help of Heisenberg’s indeterminacy principle, but their efforts had been met not only with physical and philosophical criticism but most primarily with fierce political and ideological campaigns. \n\nIn his essay \"Of Clouds and Cuckoos\", included in his book \"Objective Knowledge\", Popper\ncontrasted \"clouds\", his metaphor for indeterministic systems, with \"clocks\", meaning deterministic ones.\nHe sided with indeterminism, writing\n\nI believe Peirce was right in holding that all clocks are clouds to some considerable degree — even the most precise of clocks. This, I think, is the most important inversion of the mistaken determinist view that all clouds are clocks\nPopper was also a promoter of propensity probability.\n\nKane is one of the leading contemporary philosophers on free will. Advocating what is termed within philosophical circles \"libertarian freedom\", Kane argues that \"(1) the existence of alternative possibilities (or the agent's power to do otherwise) is a necessary condition for acting freely, and (2) determinism is not compatible with alternative possibilities (it precludes the power to do otherwise)\". It is important to note that the crux of Kane's position is grounded not in a defense of alternative possibilities (AP) but in the notion of what Kane refers to as ultimate responsibility (UR). Thus, AP is a necessary but insufficient criterion for free will. It is necessary that there be (metaphysically) real alternatives for our actions, but that is not enough; our actions could be random without being in our control. The control is found in \"ultimate responsibility\".\n\nWhat allows for ultimate responsibility of creation in Kane's picture are what he refers to as \"self-forming actions\" or SFAs — those moments of indecision during which people experience conflicting wills. These SFAs are the undetermined, regress-stopping voluntary actions or refrainings in the life histories of agents that are required for UR. UR does not require that \"every\" act done of our own free will be undetermined and thus that, for every act or choice, we could have done otherwise; it requires only that certain of our choices and actions be undetermined (and thus that we could have done otherwise), namely SFAs. These form our character or nature; they inform our future choices, reasons and motivations in action. If a person has had the opportunity to make a character-forming decision (SFA), he is responsible for the actions that are a result of his character.\n\nMark Balaguer, in his book \"Free Will as an Open Scientific Problem\" argues similarly to Kane. He believes that, conceptually, free will requires indeterminism, and the question of whether the brain behaves indeterministically is open to further empirical research. He has also written on this matter \"A Scientifically Reputable Version of Indeterministic Libertarian Free Will\".\n\nIn probability theory, a stochastic process , or sometimes random process, is the counterpart to a deterministic process (or deterministic system). Instead of dealing with only one possible reality of how the process might evolve over time (as is the case, for example, for solutions of an ordinary differential equation), in a stochastic or random process there is some indeterminacy in its future evolution described by probability distributions. This means that even if the initial condition (or starting point) is known, there are many possibilities the process might go to, but some paths may be more probable and others less so.\n\nThe idea that Newtonian physics proved causal determinism was highly influential in the early modern period.\n\"Thus physical determinism [..] became the ruling faith among enlightened men; and everybody who did not embrace this new faith was held to be an obscurantist and a reactionary\". However: \"Newton himself may be counted among the few dissenters, for he regarded the solar system as \"imperfect\", and consequently as likely to perish\".\n\nClassical chaos is not usually considered an example of indeterminism, as it can occur in deterministic systems such as the three-body problem.\n\nJohn Earman has argued that most physical theories are indeterministic. For instance, Newtonian physics admits solutions where particles accelerate continuously, heading out towards infinity. By the time reversibility of the laws in question, particles could also head inwards, unprompted by any pre-existing state. He calls such hypothetical particles \"space invaders\".\n\nJohn D. Norton has suggested another indeterministic scenario, known as Norton's Dome, where a particle is initially situated on the exact apex of a dome.\n\nBranching space-time is a theory uniting indeterminism and the special theory of relativity. The idea was originated by Nuel Belnap. The equations of general relativity admit of both indeterministic and deterministic solutions.\n\nLudwig Boltzmann, was one of the founders of statistical mechanics and the modern atomic theory of matter. He is remembered for his discovery that the second law of thermodynamics is a statistical law stemming from disorder. He also speculated that the ordered universe we see is only a small bubble in much larger sea of chaos. The Boltzmann brain is a similar idea. He can be considered one of few indeterminists to embrace pure chance.\n\nDarwinian evolution has an enhanced reliance on the chance element of random mutation compared to the earlier evolutionary theory of Herbert Spencer. However, the question of whether evolution requires genuine ontological indeterminism is open to debate\n\nIn the essay \"Chance and Necessity\" (1970) Jacques Monod rejected the role of final causation in biology, instead arguing that a mixture of efficient causation and \"pure chance\" lead to teleonomy, or merely \"apparent\" purposefulness.\n\nThe Japanese theoretical population geneticist Motoo Kimura emphasises the role of indeterminism in evolution. According to neutral theory of molecular evolution: \"at the molecular level most evolutionary change is caused by random drift of gene mutants that are equivalent in the face of selection.\n\nIn his 1997 book, \"The End of Certainty\", Prigogine contends that determinism is no longer a viable scientific belief. \"The more we know about our universe, the more difficult it becomes to believe in determinism.\" This is a major departure from the approach of Newton, Einstein and Schrödinger, all of whom expressed their theories in terms of deterministic equations. According to Prigogine, determinism loses its explanatory power in the face of irreversibility and instability.\n\nPrigogine traces the dispute over determinism back to Darwin, whose attempt to explain individual variability according to evolving populations inspired Ludwig Boltzmann to explain the behavior of gases in terms of populations of particles rather than individual particles. This led to the field of statistical mechanics and the realization that gases undergo irreversible processes. In deterministic physics, all processes are time-reversible, meaning that they can proceed backward as well as forward through time. As Prigogine explains, determinism is fundamentally a denial of the arrow of time. With no arrow of time, there is no longer a privileged moment known as the \"present,\" which follows a determined \"past\" and precedes an undetermined \"future.\" All of time is simply given, with the future as determined or undetermined as the past. With irreversibility, the arrow of time is reintroduced to physics. Prigogine notes numerous examples of irreversibility, including diffusion, radioactive decay, solar radiation, weather and the emergence and evolution of life. Like weather systems, organisms are unstable systems existing far from thermodynamic equilibrium. Instability resists standard deterministic explanation. Instead, due to sensitivity to initial conditions, unstable systems can only be explained statistically, that is, in terms of probability.\n\nPrigogine asserts that Newtonian physics has now been \"extended\" three times, first with the use of the wave function in quantum mechanics, then with the introduction of spacetime in general relativity and finally with the recognition of indeterminism in the study of unstable systems.\n\nAt one time, it was assumed in the physical sciences that if the behavior observed in a system cannot be predicted, the problem is due to lack of fine-grained information, so that a sufficiently detailed investigation would eventually result in a deterministic theory (\"If you knew exactly all the forces acting on the dice, you would be able to predict which number comes up\").\n\nHowever, the advent of quantum mechanics removed the underpinning from that approach, with the claim that (at least according to the Copenhagen interpretation) the most basic constituents of matter at times behave indeterministically. This comes from the collapse of the wave function, in which the state of a system upon measurement cannot in general be predicted. Quantum mechanics only predicts the probabilities of possible outcomes, which are given by the Born rule. Non-deterministic behavior upon wave function collapse is not only a feature of the Copenhagen interpretation, with its observer-dependence, but also of objective collapse theories.\n\nOpponents of quantum indeterminism suggested that determinism could be restored by formulating a new theory in which additional information, so-called hidden variables\n, would allow definite outcomes to be determined. For instance, in 1935, Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen wrote a paper titled \"Can Quantum-Mechanical Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete?\" arguing that such a theory was in fact necessary to preserve the principle of locality.\nIn 1964, John S. Bell was able to define a theoretical test for these local hidden variable theories, which was reformulated as a workable experimental test through the work of Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt. The negative result of the 1980s tests by Alain Aspect ruled such theories out, provided certain assumptions about the experiment hold. Thus any interpretation of quantum mechanics, including deterministic reformulations, must either reject locality or reject counterfactual definiteness altogether. David Bohm's theory is the main example of a non-local deterministic quantum theory.\n\nThe many-worlds interpretation is said to be deterministic, but experimental results still cannot be predicted: experimenters do not know which 'world' they will end up in. Technically, counterfactual definiteness is lacking.\n\nA notable consequence of quantum indeterminism is the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, which prevents the simultaneous accurate measurement of all a particle's properties.\n\nPrimordial fluctuations are density variations in the early universe which are considered the seeds of all structure in the universe. Currently, the most widely accepted explanation for their origin is in the context of cosmic inflation. According to the inflationary paradigm, the exponential growth of the scale factor during inflation caused quantum fluctuations of the inflaton field to be stretched to macroscopic scales, and, upon leaving the horizon, to \"freeze in\".\nAt the later stages of radiation- and matter-domination, these fluctuations re-entered the horizon, and thus set the initial conditions for structure formation.\n\nNeuroscientists such as Bjoern Brembs and Christof Koch believe thermodynamically stochastic processes in the brain are the basis of free will, and that even very simple organisms such as flies have a form of free will. Similar ideas are put forward by some philosophers such as Robert Kane.\n\nDespite recognizing indeterminism to be a very low-level, necessary prerequisite, Bjoern Brembs says that it's not even close to being sufficient for addressing things like morality and responsibility. Edward O. Wilson does not extrapolate from bugs to people, and Corina E. Tarnita alerts against trying to draw parallels between people and insects, since human selflessness and cooperation, however, is of a different sort, also involving the interaction of culture and sentience, not just genetics and environment.\n\nAgainst Einstein and others who advocated determinism, indeterminism—as championed by the English astronomer Sir Arthur Eddington—says that a physical object has an ontologically undetermined component that is not due to the epistemological limitations of physicists' understanding. The uncertainty principle, then, would not necessarily be due to hidden variables but to an indeterminism in nature itself.\n\nDeterminism and indeterminism are examined in \"Causality and Chance in Modern Physics\" by David Bohm. He speculates that, since determinism can emerge from underlying indeterminism (via the law of large numbers), and that indeterminism can emerge from determinism (for instance, from classical chaos), the universe could be conceived of as having alternating layers of causality and chaos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "429918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429918", "title": "Ja'far al-Sadiq", "text": "Ja'far al-Sadiq\n\nJaʿfar ibn Muḥammad aṡ-Ṣādiq̈ (; 700 or 702–765 C.E.), commonly known as \"Jaʿfar al-Sadiq\" or simply al-Sadiq (The Truthful), was the sixth Shia Imam and a major figure in the Hanafi and Maliki schools of Sunni jurisprudence. He was a descendant of Ali on the side of his father, Muhammad al-Baqir, and of Muhammad ibn Abu Bakr on the side of his mother, Umm Farwah bint al-Qasim. Muhammad ibn Abu Bakr was raised by Ali, but was not his son. Ali used to say: \"Muhammad Ibn Abu Bakr is my son but from Abu Bakr's lineage\". Al-Sadiq is the 6th imam and recognized by all Shia sects as an Imam, and is revered in traditional Sunni Islam as a transmitter of Hadith, prominent jurist, and mystic to sufis. Despite his wide-ranging attributions in a number religious disciplines, no works penned by Ja'far himself remain extant.\n\nAl-Sadiq was born in either 700 or 702 CE. He inherited the position of imam from his father in his mid-thirties. As imam, al-Sadiq stayed out of the political conflicts that embroiled the region, evading the many requests for support that he received from rebels. He was the victim of some harassment by the Abbasid caliphs, and was eventually, according to most Shia Muslims, poisoned at the orders of the Caliph al-Mansur.\n\nIn addition to his connection with Sunni schools of Sunni jurisprudence, he was a significant figure in the formulation of Shia doctrine. The traditions recorded from al-Sadiq are said to be more numerous than all hadiths recorded from all other Shia imams combined. As the founder of \"Ja'fari jurisprudence\", al-Sadiq also elaborated the doctrine of \"Nass\" (divinely inspired designation of each imam by the previous imam), and \"Ismah\" (the infallibility of the imams), as well as that of Taqiyyah.\n\nThe question of succession after al-Sadiq's death was the cause of division among Shias who considered his eldest son, Isma'il (who had died before his father) to be the next imam, and those who believed his third son Musa al-Kadhim was the imam. The first group became known as the Ismailis and the second, larger, group was named Ja'fari or the Twelvers.\n\nJa'far al-Sadiq was born in Medina either in 80/699–700 or 83/703–704. On his father's side he was a great-great grandson of Ali, the first imam. His mother, Farwah bint al-Qasim was a great-granddaughter of Abu Bakr. Al-Sadiq was the first of the Shia imams to be descended from both Abu Bakr, the first ruler of the Rashidun Caliphate, and Ali, the first Imam. However, shias believed that the previous caliphs, by taking over control of the Islamic Empire, had unlawfully unseated Ali, who was the rightful heir to the caliphate. During the first fourteen years of his life he lived alongside his grandfather Zayn al-Abedin, and witnessed the latter's withdrawal from politics. He also noted the respect that the famous jurists of Medina held toward Zayn al-Abedin in spite of his few followers.\n\nIn his mother's house, al-Sadiq also interacted with his grandfather Qasim ibn Muhammad ibn Abu Bakr, who was respected by the people of Medina as a famous traditionalist. During this period, Umayyad power was at its climax, and the childhood of al-Sadiq was coincided with the growing interest of the people of Medina in prophetic science and interpretations of the Quran.\n\nAl-Sadiq was thirty-four or thirty-seven when he inherited the position of Imamah or imamate upon the death of his father Muhammad al-Baqir. He held the imamate for 28 years, longer than any other Shia imam. His Imamate was a crucial period in Islamic history for both political and doctrinal areas. Prior to al-Sadiq, the majority of Shias had preferred the revolutionary politics of Zaid (al-Sadiq's uncle) to the mystical quietism of al-Sadiq's father and grandfather. Zaid had claimed that the position of an imam was conditional on his appearing publicly to claim his rights. Al-Sadiq, on the other hand, elaborated the doctrine of Imamate, which says \"Imamate is not a matter of human choice or self-assertion,\" but that each imam possesses a unique \"Ilm\" (knowledge) which qualifies him for the position. This knowledge was passed down from the prophet Muhammad through the line of Ali's immediate descendants. The doctrine of \"Nass\" or \"divinely inspired designation of each imam by the previous imam\", therefore, was completed by al-Sadiq. In spite of being designated as the Imam, al-Sadiq would not lay claim to the Caliphate during his lifetime.\n\nAl-Sadiq's Imamate extended over the latter half of the Umayyad Caliphate, which was marked by many revolts (mostly by Shia movements), and eventually the violent overthrow of the Umayyad Caliphate by the Abbasids, decedents of Muhammad's uncle, Abbas. Al-Sadiq maintained his father's policy of quietism, and played no part in the numerous rebellions. He stayed out of the uprising of Zaydits who gathered around al-Sadiq's uncle, Zayd, who had the support Mu'tazilites and the traditionalists of Medina and Kufa. Al-Sadiq also did not support the rebellion led by his cousin, Muhammad al-Nafs al-Zakiyya who was inspired by Kaysanites. Al-Sadiq played no part in the Abbassid rebellion against the Umayyads. His response to a message requesting help from Abu Muslim, the Khorasani leader of an uprising against the Umayyads, became famous. Al-Sadiq asked for a lamp and burned Abu Muslim's letter, saying to the envoy who brought it, \"Tell your master what you have seen.\" In burning Abû Muslim's letter he had also said, \"This man is not one of my men, this time is not mine.\" Al-Sadiq also evaded requests for assistance to other claims to the throne, without advancing his own claims. He had said that even though he, as the designated imam, was the true leader of the Ummah, he would not press his claim to the caliphate. This conscious position of neutrality was likely why Ja'far was tolerated by the Umayyad court for so long. This position also gave rise to the legal precedent of Taqiyyah.\n\nThe end of the Umayyad dynasty and beginning of the Abbasid was a period during which central authority was weak, allowing al-Sadiq to teach freely in a school which trained about four thousands students. A school of this size was unusual for religious teachers at this time. Among these were Abū Ḥanīfa and Malik ibn Anas, founder of two major Sunni schools of law, the Hanafiyah and the Malikiyah. Wasil ibn Ata, founder of Mu`tazila school, was also among his pupils. After the Abbasid revolution had overthrown the Umayyad caliphate, it turned against Shia groups who had previously been its allies against the Umayyads. The new Abbasid rulers, who had risen to power on the basis of their descent from Muhammad's uncle Abbas ibn ‘Abd al-Muttalib, were suspicious of al-Sadiq, because Shias had always believed that leadership of the Ummah was a position issued by divine order, and which was given to each imam by the previous imam. In addition, al-Sadiq had a large following, both among scholars and among those who believed him to be the imam. During rule of Al-Mansur, al-Sadiq was summoned to Baghdad along with some other prominent men from Medina in order for the Caliph to keep a close watch on them. Al-Sadiq, however, asked the Caliph to excuse him from going there by reciting a hadith which said that \"the man who goes away to make a living will achieve his purpose, but he who sticks to his family will prolong his life.\" al-Mansur reportedly accepted his request. After the defeat and death of his cousin Muhammad al-Nafs al-Zakiyya in 762, however, al-Sadiq thought it advisable to obey al-Mansur's summons. After a short stay in Baghdad, however, he convinced the Caliph that he was not a threat, and was allowed to return to Medina.\n\nToward the end of his life, he was subject to some harassment by the Abbasid caliphs. The governor of Medina was instructed by the Caliph to burn down his house, an event which reportedly did al-Sadiq no harm. To cut his ties with his followers, al-Sadiq was also watched closely and occasionally imprisoned. Through these trials, Al-Sadiq appears to have continued his scholarship and remained an influential teacher in his native Medina and beyond.\n\nAl-Sadiq married Fatimah Al-Hasan, a descendant of Al-Hasan ibn ‘Ali, with whom he had two sons, Isma'il ibn Jafar (the Ismaili sixth Imām) and Abdullah al-Aftah. Following his wife's death, al-Sadiq purchased a Berbery or Andalusian slave named Hamidah Khātūn (), freed her, trained her as an Islamic scholar, and then married her. She bore him two more sons; Musa al-Kadhim (the seventh Twelver imam), and Muhammad al-Dibaj. She was revered by the Shias, especially by women, for her wisdom. She was known as Hamidah the Pure. Ja'far al-Sadiq used to send women to learn the tenets of Islam from her, said that \"Hamidah is pure from every impurity like the ingot of pure gold.\"\n\nImam Ja‘far also had a son called 'Is-haq', who reportedly married Sayyidah Nafisah bint Al-Hasan. Nafisah was a descendant of Al-Hasan ibn ‘Ali, and teacher of Sunni Imam Ash-Shafi‘i.\n\nAl-Sadiq was arrested several times by Umayyad and Abbasid caliphs Hisham, Saffah, and Mansur. He was particularly seen as a threat by the newly minted Abbasids who felt challenge by his strong claim to the title of caliph. When he died in 148/765 at the age of 64 or 65, many Shi'i sources suspected that he was poisoned at the behest of Mansur. Al-sadiq's death led to uncertainty about the succession of the Imamate. He was buried in Medina, in the famous Jannatul Baqee cemetery, and his tomb was a place of pilgrimage until 1926. It was then that the Wahhabis conquered Medina for the second time and razed the tomb, along with all other prominent Islamic shrines, with the exception of that of the prophet Muhammad.\n\nAccording to Tabatabai upon hearing the news of al-Sadiq's death, Mansur wanted to put an end to the Imamate. Mansur reportedly wrote to the governor of Medina, commanding him to read the imam's testament, and to behead the person named in it as the future imam. However, the governor found that al-Sadiq had chosen four people rather than one: Mansur himself, the governor, the imam's oldest son Abdullah al-Aftah, and Musa al-Kazim, his younger son.\n\nThe Shia group had begun to split during the lifetime of al-Sadiq, when his eldest son Isma'il ibn Jafar predeceased him. His death occurred in the presence of many witnesses. After the death of Ja'far al-Sadiq, his following fractured further, with the larger group, who came to be known as the Twelvers, following his younger son Musa al-Kadhim. Another group believed instead that Isma'il had been designated as the next imam, and that since he had predeceased his father, the imamate had passed to Isma'il's son Muhammad ibn Ismail and his descendants. This latter group became known as the Isma'ilis. Some Isma'ilis believe that Isma'il had not actually died, but would reappear as Mahdi, the rejuvenator of Islam in the Shia doctrine.\n\nStill other groups accepted either Abdullah al-Aftah or Muhammad ibn Ja'far al-Sadiq (Al-Dibaj), both sons of the Ja'far al-Sadiq, as the imam. A final group believed that al-Sadiq had been the last imam, and that the lineage had not continued.\n\nAfter the death of Musa al-Kazim, the majority of his followers recognized his son Ali al-Ridha as the eighth imam, while others believed that al-Kazim had been the last imam. This latter group became known as the Waqifiyah.\n\nNo major divisions occurred in Shiaism from the eighth to the twelfth imam, whom the majority of the Shia (Twelvers) considered to be Muhammad al-Mahdi. Among the sects which separated from the majority, only Zaidiyyah and Ismaili continue to exist today.\n\nAl-Sadiq religious views are recorded as authority in the writing of number of contradictory positions. The use of his name as an authority within the Sufi, scientific, Sunni legal, Ismaili and extremist writings shows his importance as a figure within the development of early Muslim thought. According to Ya'qubi it was customary for anyone who wanted to relate a tradition from him to say \"the Learned One informed us\". Malik ibn Anas, when quoting anything from al-Sadiq, would say \"The Thiqa (truthful) Ja'far b. Muhammad himself told me that…\" the same is reported from Abu Hanifa. The works attributed to him may be of dubious authenticity, but they do establish his name at least as indicating a mastery of learning generally, and the Islamic sciences in particular.\nThough most groups wished to recruit al-Sadiq's legacy for their own cause, the most extensive source for his teachings is to be found within the imami Shia tradition. For Twelver Shias Ja'far al-Ṣadiq is the sixth imam who established the Shiism as serious intellectual force in the late Umayyad and early Abbasid periods. According to Tabatabai the number of traditions left behind by al-Sadiq and his father were more than all the hadiths recorded from Muhammad and all the other Shia imams combined. Shia thought starting with Sayyid Haydar Amuli, and leading to Safavid philosophers like Mir Damad, Mulla Sadra and Qazi Sa’id Qumi continuing to the present day is based on Shia imam's tradition specially al-Sadiq.\n\nShia jurisprudence became known as Ja'fari jurisprudence after Ja'far al-Sadiq, whose legal dicta were the most important source of Shia law. Like Sunni law, Ja'fari jurisprudence is based on the Quran and the Hadith, and also based on the consensus (Ijma). Unlike the Sunnis, Shias give more weight to reasoning ('Aql), while Sunnis only allow for a kind of analogical reasoning (Qiyas).\nAl-Sadiq is presented as one who denounces personal opinion (Raʾy) and analogical reasoning (qiās) of his contemporaries arguing that God’s law is occasional and unpredictable, and that the servants' duty is not to embark on reasoning in order to discover the law, but to submit to the inscrutable will of God as revealed by the imam.\nIn his book \"Maqbula\" Omar ibn Ḥanẓala (who was a disciple of al-Sadiq) asks the imam how legal disputes within the community should be solved, and whether one should take such cases to the ruler (Sultan) and his judges. Ja'far al-Sadiq replies in the negative saying that those who take their disputes to the rulers and their judges get only soḥt (unlawful decision). Instead al-Sadiq recommends an unofficial system of justice for the community, and that the disputants should turn to \"those who relate our [i.e., the imams'] Hadiths\". The reason for this is that the imams have \"made such a one a judge (ḥākem) over you.\"\n\n\"See Also: Encyclopedia Iranica: JAʿFAR AL-ṢĀDEQ iii. And Sufism\" \n\nJa'far Al-Sadiq holds a special prominence among Sufi orders due to his claimed connections to some of Sufism's earliest theologians. He is elevated as an individual of great spiritual knowledge ('ilm) in many early works of Sufi literature, such as those by Abu Bakr Kalābāḏi (d. 380/990) or later in the writings of Sufi poet Abū Ḥamīd bin Abū Bakr Ibrāhīm Aṭṭār (d. 618/1221). 'Attar claims that Ja'far, more than the other Imams, was a spiritual forebear to Sufism when he says he, \"spoke more than the other imams concerning the Path (\"ṭariqat\").” 'Attar's attributed sayings of Al-Sadiq are full of Sufi specific terminology such as \"He had passed away (fa'na: figuratively refers to the death of the ego)\" and \"window into the heart.\" It is suspicious that these terms are absent from older collections of sayings attributed to Ja'far. It is also worth noting that some historical jurists and authors, such as Moqaddas Ardabili (d. 993/1585), saw Sufi claims of relation to al-Sadiq as a fabricated tie created to lend historical justification to the Sufis\n\nWhile is as apparent in these writings that Ja'far al-sadiq was regarded as a founding figure in Sufism, the historical situation is more difficult to ascertain. Given his large following and established school (madrasa), he almost certainly was a teacher to \"proto-sufis.\" Perhaps, as claimed by 'Attar, this included Abu Noʿaym, Sofyān Ṯawri (d 161/776), a well known jurist and ascetic in his time. It is through Sofyan that one of the most repeated attributions to Ja'far's character reportedly comes. 'Attar relates: \"Sadiq was seen wearing a precious robe of silk. They said,'Son of the Prophet of God, this is not in accord with the life of your holy family.' He took that man by the hand and drew it into his sleeve which was clad in coarse lint so that his hand was pricked. Sadiq said ‘This is for God and this is for men'\"This verse shows us that Ja'far was viewed by Sufi sources as processing a humbleness and inner piety that was a cornerstone of malamatiyya thought. The malamatiyya were closely associated with the Sufis, and these two mystical traditions had, in many ways, been blended by the time of 'Attar. Whether these stories are any most than myth crafted by later generations is not something that can be conclusively determined. What can be said is that Sufi teachers often traced the source of their knowledge back to the teaching of Al-Sadiq and that perceived content of these teaching remain relevant to Sufi practice today\n\nJa'far al-Sadiq's view on theology is transmitted through Mufazzel who recorded his own questions and al-Sadiq's answers in a book known as \"Ketab al-Tawhid\" in which al-Sadiq gives proofs as the unity of God. This book is considered identical to the \"Ketāb al-ehlilaja\" which is a reply to Mufazzel's request from al-Sadiq for a refutation of those who deny God.\nHesham ibn Ḥakam (d. 179/796) is another famous student of the imam who proposed a number of doctrines that later became orthodox Shia theology, including the rational necessity of the divinely guided imam in every age to teach and lead God's community.\nAl-Sadiq is attributed with the statement: \"Whoever claims that God has ordered evil, has lied about God. Whoever claims that both good and evil are attributed to him, has lied about God\". This view which is accordance with that of Mu'tazilite doctrine seems to absolve God from the responsibility for evil in the world. Al-Sadiq says that God does not \"order created beings to do something without providing for them a means of not doing it, though they do not do it, or not do it without God's permission\". Al-Sadiq expressed a moderate view between compulsion (Jabr), and giving the choice to man (Tafviz), stating that God decreed some things absolutely, but left some others to human agency. This assertion was widely adopted afterwards and was called \"al-amr bayn al-amrayn\" which meant\" neither predestination nor delegation but a position between the two.\"\nAl-Ṣadiq's view therefore is recorded as supporting either position as it is reported in an exchange between him and an unknown interlocutor. The interlocutor asks if God forces his servants to do evil or whether he has delegated power to them. Al-Sadiq's answers negatively to both questions. When asked \"What then?\" he replies, \"The blessings of your Lord are between these two\".\n\nIt is narrated in hadith that Ja'far al-Sadiq has said \"We are the people well-grounded in knowledge and we are the ones who know how to interpret it.\".\n\nThe works attributed to Jafar al-Sadiq in Tafsir (Quranic exegesis) are mostly described as the Sufi-mystical works such as \"Tafsir al-Qorʾān\", \"Manāfeʿ ṣowar al-Qorʾān\" and \"ḴawāsÂsÂ al-Qorʾān al-aʿẓam\". The attribution of these works to al-Sadiq, however, is suspected. In his books \"Ḥaqāʾeq al-tafsir\" and \"Ziādāt Ḥaqāʾeq al-tafsir\", ʿAbd-al-Raḥmān Solami cites al-Ṣadiq as one of his major (if not the major) source of knowledge concerning the meaning of Quranic verses.\n\n\"Ketāb al-jafr\", an early mystical commentary on the Quran (Tafsir), is also attributed to al-Sadiq. According to Ibn Khaldun, it was originally written on the skin of a young bull, allowing the imam to reveal the hidden meaning of the Quran. al-Sadiq is said to have proposed a fourfold model of Quran interpretation. He said that \"The Book of God comprises four things: the statement set down, the implied purport, the hidden meanings, relating to the supra-sensible world, and the exalted spiritual doctrines.\" He said that the plain meanings were for the common people; the hidden meanings for the elite; the implied meanings for the \"friends of god;\" and the \"exalted spiritual doctrines\" were the \"province of the prophets.\" He stated that Hadith, or traditional sayings of the Prophet, should be rejected if they contradicted the Quran.\n\nAl-Sadiq adopted Taqiyyah as a defensive tool against the violence and threats that were directed against him and the Shias. Taqiyya was a form of religious dissimulation, or a legal dispensation whereby a believing individual can deny their faith while they are in fear or at risk of significant persecution. In other words, Taqiyya says that it is acceptable to hide one's true opinions if by revealing them, one puts oneself or others in danger. The doctrine was developed by al-Sadiq, and served to protect the Shias when Al-Mansur, the Abbasid caliph, conducted a brutal and oppressive campaign against Alids and their supporters. According to Moezzi, in the early sources Taqiyya means \"the keeping or safeguarding of the secrets of the Imams' teaching.\" \"Divergence of traditions\" is, therefore, sometimes justified by Shia imams as a result of the need for using Taqiyya. \"He who is certain that we [the imams] proclaim only the truth (Al-Haqq), may he be satisfied with our teaching,\" asserts al-Sadiq; \"and if he hears us say something contradictory to what he heard earlier, he should know that we are acting only in his own interest.\" Practicing Taqiyya also had an esoteric significance for those who believed that their teachings should not be comprehensible to ordinary Ulama, and so hid their more profound teachings.\n\nAccording to Haywood half a dozen religious works bear al-Sadiq's name as author, though none of them can be firmly described as being written by al-Ṣadiq. It is probable that al-Sadiq was an author who left the writing to his students. The alchemist, Geber, for example, suggested that some of his works are \"little more than records of Jaʿfar's teaching or summaries of hundreds of monographs written by him.\" Ja'far Al-Sadiq is also cited in a wide range of historical sources, including al-Tabari, al-Yaqubi and Al-Masudi. Al-Dhahabi recognizes his contribution to Sunni tradition and Isma'ili scholars such as Qadi al-Nu'man recorded his traditions in their work.\n\n\"Ketāb al-jafr\" is a commentary on the Quran which, according to Ibn Khaldun, was first written on the skin of a young bull, which allowed al-Sadiq to reveal the hidden meaning of the Quran. Various versions of his will, and a number of collections of legal dicta, are attributed to him as well. There are many reports attributed to him in the early Shia Hadith collections such as Muhammad ibn Ya'qub al-Kulayni's Kitab al-Kafi, where they are featured as central sources of Imami doctrine. \"Al-haft wa'l-aẓella\" and \"Ketāb al-ṣerāṭ\" which are containing \"secret revelations\" to Mofażżal are also attributed to al-Sadiq, and had an important role in the elaboration of the esoteric doctrine of the Nosayris, for whom al-Ṣadiq is an influential figure.\n\n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71965", "title": "Jack Johnson (boxer)", "text": "Jack Johnson (boxer)\n\nJohn Arthur Johnson (March 31, 1878 – June 10, 1946), nicknamed the Galveston Giant, was an American boxer who, at the height of the Jim Crow era, became the first African American world heavyweight boxing champion (1908–1915). Among the period's most dominant champions, Johnson remains a boxing legend, with his 1910 fight against James J. Jeffries dubbed the \"fight of the century\". According to filmmaker Ken Burns, \"for more than thirteen years, Jack Johnson was the most famous and the most notorious African-American on Earth\". Transcending boxing, he became part of the culture and the history of racism in America.\n\nIn 1912, Johnson opened a successful and luxurious \"black and tan\" (desegregated) restaurant and nightclub, which in part was run by his wife, a white woman. Major newspapers of the time soon claimed that Johnson was attacked by the government only after he became famous as a black man married to a white woman, and was linked to other white women. Johnson was arrested on charges of violating the Mann Act—forbidding one to transport a woman across state lines for \"immoral purposes\"—a racially motivated charge that embroiled him in controversy for his relationships, including marriages, with white women. There were also allegations of domestic violence. Sentenced to a year in prison, Johnson fled the country and fought boxing matches abroad for seven years until 1920 when he served his sentence at the federal penitentiary at Levenworth. Johnson was posthumously pardoned by President Donald Trump in May 2018, 105 years after his conviction.\n\nJohnson continued taking paying fights for many years, and operated several other businesses, including lucrative endorsement deals. Johnson died in a car crash on June 10, 1946, at the age of 68. He is buried at Graceland Cemetery in Chicago.\n\nJohnson was born the third child of nine, and the first son, of Henry and Tina Johnson, two former slaves who worked blue collar jobs as a janitor and a dishwasher. His father Henry served as a civilian teamster of the Union's 38th Colored Infantry. Jack once said his father was the \"most perfect physical specimen that he had ever seen\", although his father was only and left with an atrophied right leg from his service in the war.\n\nGrowing up in Galveston, Texas, Johnson attended five years of school. Like all of his siblings, Jack was expected to work.\n\nAlthough Johnson grew up in the South, he said that segregation was not an issue in the somewhat secluded city of Galveston, as everyone living in the 12th Ward was poor and went through the same struggles. Johnson remembers growing up with a \"gang\" of white boys, in which he never felt victimized or excluded. Remembering his childhood, Johnson said: \"As I grew up, the white boys were my friends and my pals. I ate with them, played with them and slept at their homes. Their mothers gave me cookies, and I ate at their tables. No one ever taught me that white men were superior to me.\"\n\nJohnson was a frail young boy.\n\nAfter Johnson quit school, he began a job working at the local docks. He made several other attempts at working other jobs around town until one day he made his way to Dallas, finding work at the race track exercising horses. Jack stuck with this job until he found a new apprenticeship for a carriage painter by the name of Walter Lewis. Lewis enjoyed watching friends spar, and Johnson began to learn how to box. Johnson later claimed that it was thanks to Lewis that he became a boxer.\n\nAt 16, Johnson moved to Manhattan and found living arrangements with Barbados Joe Walcott, a welterweight fighter from the West Indies. Johnson again found work exercising horses for the local stable, until he was fired for exhausting a horse. On his return to Galveston, he soon found employment as a janitor at a gym owned by German-born heavyweight fighter Herman Bernau. Johnson eventually put away enough money to buy two pairs of boxing gloves, sparring every chance he got.\n\nReturning home from Manhattan, Johnson had a fight with Davie Pearson. Johnson remembers Pearson as a \"grown and toughened\" man who accused Johnson of turning him in to the police over a game of craps. When both of them were released from jail, they met at the docks and Johnson beat Pearson before a large crowd. Johnson fought in a summer league against a man named John \"Must Have It\" Lee. Because prize fighting was illegal in Texas, the fight was broken up and moved to the beach where Johnson won his first fight and a prize of one dollar and fifty cents.\n\nJohnson made his debut as a professional boxer on November 1, 1898, in Galveston, Texas, when he knocked out Charley Brooks in the second round of a 15-round bout for what was billed as \"The Texas State Middleweight Title\". In his third pro fight on May 8, 1899, he battled \"Klondike\" (John W. Haynes or Haines), an African American heavyweight known as \"The Black Hercules\", in Chicago. Klondike (so called as he was considered a rarity, like the gold in the Klondike), who had declared himself the \"Black Heavyweight Champ\", won on a technical knockout (TKO) in the fifth round of a scheduled six-rounder. The two fighters met again in 1900, with the first contest resulting in a draw as both fighters were on their feet at the end of 20 rounds. Johnson won the second fight by a TKO when Klondike refused to come out for the 14th round. Johnson did not claim Klondike's unrecognized title.\n\nOn February 25, 1901, Johnson fought Joe Choynski in Galveston. Choynski, a popular and experienced heavyweight, knocked out Johnson in the third round. Prizefighting was illegal in Texas at the time and they were both arrested. Bail was set at $5,000 which neither could afford. The sheriff permitted both fighters to go home at night so long as they agreed to spar in the jail cell. Large crowds gathered to watch the sessions. After 23 days in jail, their bail was reduced to an affordable level and a grand jury refused to indict either man. However, Johnson later stated that he learned his boxing skills during that jail time. The two would remain friends.\n\nJohnson attests that his success in boxing came from the coaching he received from Choynski. The aging Choynski saw natural talent and determination in Johnson and taught him the nuances of defense, stating \"A man who can move like you should never have to take a punch\".\n\nThroughout his career Johnson built a unique fighting style of his own, which was not customary to boxing during this time. Though Jack would typically strike first, he would fight defensively, waiting for his opponents to tire out, while becoming more aggressive as the rounds went on. He often fought to punish his opponents through the rounds rather than knocking them out, and would continuously dodge their punches. He would then quickly strike back with a blow of his own. Jack often made his fights look effortless, and as if he had much more to offer, but when pushed he could also display some powerful moves and punches. There are films of his fights in which he can be seen holding up his opponent, who otherwise might have fallen, until he recovered. His style of playing with his opponents was very effective, but his style was also criticized by the press as being a cowardly fighting approach. In contrast, world heavyweight champion \"Gentleman\" Jim Corbett had used many of the same techniques a decade earlier, and was praised by the press as \"the cleverest man in boxing\".\n\nJohnson beat former black heavyweight champ Frank Childs on October 21, 1902. Childs had twice won the black heavyweight title and continued to claim himself the true black champ despite having lost his title in a bout with George Byers and then, after retaking the title from Byers, losing it again to Denver Ed Martin. He still made pretence to being the black champ and claimed the unrecognized black heavyweight title as well. Johnson won by a TKO in the 12th round of the scheduled 20-rounder, when Childs's seconds signaled he couldn't go on. (He claimed he had dislocated his elbow.) The defeat by Johnson forever ended Childs's pretensions to the black heavyweight crown.\n\nBy 1903, though Johnson's official record showed him with nine wins against three losses, five draws and two no contests, he had won at least 50 fights against both white and black opponents. Johnson won his first title on February 3, 1903, beating Denver Ed Martin on points in a 20-round match for the World Colored Heavyweight Championship. Johnson held the title until it was vacated when he won the world heavyweight title from Tommy Burns in Sydney, Australia on Boxing Day 1908.\nHis reign of 2,151 days was the third longest in the 60-year-long history of the colored heavyweight title. Only Harry Wills at 3,103 days and Peter Jackson at 3,041 days held the title longer. A three-time colored heavyweight champion, Wills held the title for a total of 3,351 days.\n\nJohnson defended the colored heavyweight title 17 times, which was second only to the 26 times Wills defended the title. While colored champ, he defeated ex-colored champs Denver Ed Martin and Frank Childs again and beat future colored heavyweight champs Sam McVey three times and Sam Langford once. He beat Langford on points in a 15-rounder and never gave him another shot at the title, either when he was colored champ or the world heavyweight champ.\n\nJohnson fought Joe Jeanette a total of seven times, all during his reign as colored champ before he became the world's heavyweight champion, winning four times and drawing twice (three of the victories and one draw were newspaper decisions). In their first match in 1905, they had fought to a draw, but in their second match on November 25, 1905, Johnson lost as he was disqualified in the second round of a scheduled six-round fight. Johnson continued to claim the title because of the disqualification.\n\nAfter Johnson became the first African-American Heavyweight Champion of the World on December 26, 1908, his World Colored Heavyweight Championship was vacated. Jeanette fought Sam McVey for the title in Paris on February 20, 1909 and was beaten, but later took the title from McVey in a 49-round bout on April 17 of that year in Paris for a $6,000 purse. Sam Langford subsequently claimed the title during Jeanette's reign after Johnson refused to defend the World Heavyweight Championship against him. Eighteen months later, Jeanette lost the title to Langford.\n\nDuring his reign as world champ, Johnson never again fought Jeanette despite numerous challenges and avoided Langford, who won the colored title a record five times. Johnson had fought Langford once while he was the colored champ and beaten him on points in a 15-rounder.\n\nOn November 27, 1945, Johnson finally stepped back into the ring with Joe Jeanette. The 67-year-old Johnson squared off against the 66-year-old Jeanette in an exhibition held at a New York City rally to sell war bonds. Fellow former colored heavyweight champ Harry Wills also participated in the exhibition.\n\nJohnson's efforts to win the world heavyweight title were thwarted, as world heavyweight champion James J. Jeffries refused to face him then. Black boxers could meet white boxers in other competitions, but the world heavyweight championship was off limits to them.\n\nHowever, Johnson did fight former champion Bob Fitzsimmons in July 1907, and knocked him out in two rounds. There is a report that Johnson even fought and KO'd Jim Jeffries' brother Jack, and taunted him about it to force a fight, with no success.\n\nJohnson finally won the world heavyweight title on December 26, 1908, a full six years after lightweight champion Joe Gans became the first African American boxing champion. Johnson's victory over the reigning world champion, Canadian Tommy Burns, in Sydney, Australia, came after stalking Burns around the world for two years and taunting him in the press for a match. It is believed that Burns had agreed to fight Johnson only after promotors guaranteed him $30,000. The fight lasted fourteen rounds before being stopped by the police in front of over 20,000 spectators. The title was awarded to Johnson on a referee's decision.\n\nAfter Johnson's victory over Burns, racial animosity among whites ran so deep that it was called out for a \"Great White Hope\" to take the title away from Johnson. While Johnson was heavyweight champion, he was covered more in the press than all other notable black men combined. The lead-up to the bout was peppered with racist press against Johnson. Even the \"New York Times\" wrote of the event, \"If the black man wins, thousands and thousands of his ignorant brothers will misinterpret his victory as justifying claims to much more than mere physical equality with their white neighbors.\" As title holder, Johnson thus had to face a series of fighters each billed by boxing promoters as a \"great white hope\", often in exhibition matches. In 1909, he beat Tony Ross, Al Kaufman, and the middleweight champion Stanley Ketchel.\n\nThe match with Ketchel was originally thought to have been an exhibition, and in fact it was fought by both men that way, until the 12th round, when Ketchel threw a right to Johnson's head, knocking him down. Quickly regaining his feet, and very annoyed, Johnson immediately dashed straight at Ketchell and threw a single punch, an uppercut, a punch for which he was famous, to Ketchel's jaw, knocking him out. The punch knocked out Ketchell's front teeth; Johnson can be seen on film removing them from his glove, where they had been embedded.\n\n In 1910, former undefeated heavyweight champion James J. Jeffries came out of retirement to challenge Johnson. He had not fought in six years and had to lose well over 100 pounds to get back to his championship fighting weight. Initially Jeffries had no interest in the fight, being quite happy as an alfalfa farmer. But those who wanted to see Johnson defeated badgered Jeffries mercilessly for months, and offered him an unheard sum of money, reputed to be about $120,000 (equivalent to $ million in ) to which he finally accepted without protest.\n\nJeffries remained mostly hidden from media attention until the day of the fight, while Johnson soaked up the spotlight. John L. Sullivan, who made boxing championships a popular and esteemed spectacle, stated that Johnson was in such good physical shape compared to Jeffries that he could lose only if he had a lack of skill on the day. Before the fight, Jeffries remarked, \"It is my intention to go right after my opponent and knock him out as soon as possible.\" While his wife added, \"I'm not interested in prizefighting but I am interested in my husband's welfare, I do hope this will be his last fight.\" Johnson's words were \"May the best man win.\"\n\nRacial tension was brewing leading up to the fight and to prevent any harm to either boxer, guns were prohibited within the arena as were the sale of alcohol and anyone under the effects of alcohol. Behind the racial attitudes being instigated by the media was a major investment in gambling for the fight with 10–7 odds in favor of Jeffries.\n\nThe fight took place on July 4, 1910, in front of 20,000 people, at a ring built just for the occasion in downtown Reno, Nevada. Jeffries proved unable to impose his will on the younger champion and Johnson dominated the fight. By the 15th round, after Jeffries had been knocked down twice for the first time in his career, Jeffries' corner threw in the towel to end the fight and prevent Jeffries from having a knockout on his record. Johnson later remarked he knew the fight was over in the 4th round when he landed an uppercut and saw the look on Jeffries face, stating, \"I knew what that look meant. The old ship was sinking.\" Afterwards, Jeffries was humbled by the loss and what he'd seen of Johnson in their match. \"I could never have whipped Johnson at my best\", Jeffries said. \"I couldn't have hit him. No, I couldn't have reached him in 1,000 years.\"\n\nThe \"Fight of the Century\" earned Johnson $65,000 (over $ million in dollars) and silenced the critics, who had belittled Johnson's previous victory over Tommy Burns as \"empty\", claiming that Burns was a false champion since Jeffries had retired undefeated. John L. Sullivan commented after the fight that Johnson won deservedly, fairly, and convincingly:\n\nThe outcome of the fight triggered race riots that evening—the Fourth of July—all across the United States, from Texas and Colorado to New York and Washington, D.C. Johnson's victory over Jeffries had dashed white dreams of finding a \"great white hope\" to defeat him. Many whites felt humiliated by the defeat of Jeffries.\n\nBlacks, on the other hand, were jubilant, and celebrated Johnson's great victory as a victory for racial advancement. Black poet William Waring Cuney later highlighted the black reaction to the fight in his poem \"My Lord, What a Morning\". Around the country, blacks held spontaneous parades and gathered in prayer meetings.\n\nRace riots erupted in New York, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, New Orleans, Atlanta, St. Louis, Little Rock and Houston. In all, riots occurred in more than 25 states and 50 cities. At least twenty people were killed across the US from the riots, and hundreds more were injured.\n\n\"The Johnson-Jeffries Fight\" film received more public attention in the United States than any other film to date and for the next five years, until the release of \"The Birth of a Nation\".\n\nIn the United States, many states and cities banned the exhibition of the Johnson-Jeffries film. The movement to censor Johnson's victory took over the country within three days after the fight. It was a spontaneous movement. Two weeks after the match former President Theodore Roosevelt, an avid boxer and fan, wrote an article for \"The Outlook\" in which he supported banning not just moving pictures of boxing matches, but a complete ban on all prize fights in the US. He cited the \"crookedness\" and gambling that surrounded such contests and that moving pictures have \"introduced a new method of money getting and of demoralization\". The controversy surrounding the film directly motivated Congress to ban distribution of all prizefight films across state lines in 1912; the ban was lifted in 1940.\n\nIn 2005, the film of the Jeffries-Johnson \"Fight of the Century\" was entered into the United States National Film Registry as being worthy of preservation.\n\nThe six fights for which the major films were made, starring Johnson, were:\n\nThe color bar remained in force even under Johnson. Once he was the world's heavyweight champ, Johnson did not fight a black opponent for the first five years of his reign. He denied matches to black heavyweights Joe Jeanette (one of his successors as colored heavyweight champ), Sam Langford (who beat Jeanette for the colored title), and the young Harry Wills, who was colored heavyweight champ during the last year of Johnson's reign as world's heavyweight champ.\n\nBlacks were not given a chance at the title allegedly because Johnson felt that he could make more money fighting white boxers. In August 1913, as Johnson neared the end of his troubled reign as world heavyweight champ, there were rumors that he had agreed to fight Langford in Paris for the title, but it came to nought. Johnson said that Langford was unable to raise $30,000 for his guarantee.\n\nBecause black boxers with the exception of Johnson had been barred from fighting for the heavyweight championship because of racism, Johnson's refusal to fight African-Americans offended the African-American community, since the opportunity to fight top white boxers was rare. Jeanette criticized Johnson, saying, \"Jack forgot about his old friends after he became champion and drew the color line against his own people.\"\n\nWhen Johnson finally did agree to take on a black opponent in late 1913, it was not to Sam Langford, the current colored heavyweight champ, that he gave the title shot. Instead, Johnson chose Battling Jim Johnson, a lesser boxer who, in 1910, had lost to Langford and had a draw and loss via KO to Sam McVey, the former colored champ. Battling Jim fought former colored champ Joe Jeanette four times between July 19, 1912 and January 21, 1913 and lost all four fights. The only fighter of note he did beat in that period was future colored champ Big Bill Tate, whom he KO-ed in the second round of a scheduled 10-round bout. It was Tate's third pro fight.\n\nIn November 1913, the International Boxing Union had declared the world heavyweight title held by Jack Johnson to be vacant.\nThe fight, scheduled for 10 rounds, was held on December 19, 1913 in Paris. It was the first time in history that two blacks had fought for the world heavyweight championship.\n\nWhile the Johnson v. Johnson fight had been billed as a world heavyweight title match, in many ways, it resembled an exhibition. A sportswriter from the \"Indianapolis Star\" at the fight reported that the crowd became unruly when it was apparent that neither boxer was putting up a fight.\n\nJack Johnson, the heavyweight champion, and Battling Jim Johnson, another colored pugilist, of Galveston, Texas, met in a 10-round contest here tonight, which ended in a draw. The spectators loudly protested throughout that the men were not fighting, and demanded their money back. Many of them left the hall. The organizers of the fight explained the fiasco by asserting that Jack Johnson's left arm was broken in the third round. There is no confirmation of a report that Jack Johnson had been stabbed and no evidence at the ringside of such an accident. During the first three rounds he was obviously playing with his opponent. After that it was observed that he was only using his right hand. When the fight was over he complained that his arm had been injured. Doctors who made an examination, certified to a slight fracture of the radius of the left arm. The general opinion is that his arm was injured in a wrestling match early in the week, and that a blow tonight caused the fracture of the bone.\n\nBecause of the draw, Jack Johnson kept his championship. After the fight, he explained that his left arm was injured in the third round and he could not use it.\n\nOn April 5, 1915, Johnson lost his title to Jess Willard, a working cowboy from Kansas who started boxing when he was twenty-seven years old. With a crowd of 25,000 at Oriental Park Racetrack in Havana, Cuba, Johnson was knocked out in the 26th round of the scheduled 45 round fight. Johnson, although having won almost every round, began to tire after the 20th round, and was visibly hurt by heavy body punches from Willard in rounds preceding the 26th-round knockout.\n\nJohnson is said by many to have spread rumors that he took a dive, but Willard is widely regarded as having won the fight outright. Many people thought Johnson purposely threw the fight because Willard was white, in an effort to have his Mann Act charges dropped. Willard said, \"If he was going to throw the fight, I wish he'd done it sooner. It was hotter than hell out there.\"\n\nAfter losing his world heavyweight championship, Johnson never again fought for the colored heavyweight crown. His popularity remained strong enough that he recorded for Ajax Records in the 1920s. Johnson continued fighting, but age was catching up with him. He fought professionally until 1938 at age 60 when he lost 7 of his last 9 bouts, losing his final fight to Walter Price by a 7th-round TKO. It is often suggested that any bouts after the age of 40—which was a very venerable age for boxing in those days—not be counted on his actual record, since he was performing in order to make a living. He also indulged in what was known as \"cellar\" fighting, where the bouts, unadvertised, were fought for private audiences, usually in cellars, or other unrecognized places. There are photographs existing of one of these fights. Johnson made his final ring appearance at age 67 on November 27, 1945, fighting three one-minute exhibition rounds against two opponents, Joe Jeanette and John Ballcort, in a benefit fight card for U.S. War Bonds.\n\nJohnson earned considerable sums endorsing various products, including patent medicines, and had several expensive hobbies such as automobile racing and tailored clothing, as well as purchasing jewelry and furs for his wives. He challenged champion racer Barney Oldfield to a match auto race at the Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn dirt track. Oldfield easily out-distanced Johnson. Once, when he was pulled over for a $50 speeding ticket, he gave the officer a $100 bill; when the officer protested that he couldn't make change for that much, Johnson told him to keep the change as he was going to make his return trip at the same speed. In 1920, Johnson opened a night club in Harlem; he sold it three years later to a gangster, Owney Madden, who renamed it the Cotton Club.\n\nJohnson's behavior was looked down upon by the African-American community, especially by the black scholar Booker T. Washington who said it \"is unfortunate that a man with money should use it in a way to injure his own people, in the eyes of those who are seeking to uplift his race and improve its conditions, I wish to say emphatically that Jack Johnson's actions did not meet my personal approval and I am sure they do not meet with the approval of the colored race.\"\n\nJohnson flouted conventions regarding the social and economic \"place\" of blacks in American society. As a black man, he broke a powerful taboo in consorting with white women and would verbally taunt men (both white and black) inside and outside the ring. Asked the secret of his staying power by a reporter who had watched a succession of women parade into, and out of, the champion's hotel room, Johnson supposedly said \"Eat jellied eels and think distant thoughts\".\n\nIn 1911 Johnson, through an acquaintance, attempted to become a Freemason in Dundee. Although he was admitted as a member of the Forfar and Kincardine Lodge No 225 in the city, there was considerable opposition to his membership, principally on the grounds of his race, and the Forfarshire Lodge was suspended by the Grand Lodge of Scotland. Johnson's fees were returned to him and his admission was ruled illegal.\n\nJohnson wrote two memoirs of his life: \"Mes combats\" in 1914 and \"Jack Johnson in the Ring and Out\" in 1927.\n\nIn 1943, Johnson attended at least one service at the Angelus Temple in Los Angeles, California. In a public conversion, while Detroit, Michigan, burned in race riots, he professed his faith to Christ in a service conducted by evangelist Aimee Semple McPherson. She embraced him as \"he raised his hand in worship\".\n\nJohnson engaged in various relationships including three documented marriages. All of his wives were white. At the height of his career, Johnson was excoriated by the press for his flashy lifestyle and for having married white women.\n\nAccording to Johnson's 1927 autobiography, he married Mary Austin, a black woman from Galveston, Texas. No record exists of this marriage.\n\nWhile in Philadelphia in 1903, Johnson met Clara Kerr, a black prostitute. According to Johnson's autobiography, Kerr left him for Johnson's friend, a racehorse trainer named William Bryant. They took Johnson's jewelry and clothing when they left. Johnson tracked the couple down and had Kerr arrested on burglary charges. Johnson and Kerr reconciled for a while before she left him again.\n\nDuring a three-month tour of Australia in 1907, Johnson had a brief affair with Alma \"Lola\" Toy, a white woman from Sydney. Johnson confirmed to an American journalist that he intended to marry Toy. When \"The Referee\" printed Johnson's plans to marry Toy, it caused controversy in Sydney. Toy demanded a retraction and later won a libel lawsuit from the newspaper.\n\nAfter returning from Australia, Johnson said that \"the heartaches which Mary Austin and Clara Kerr caused me led me to forswear colored women and to determine that my lot henceforth would be cast only with white women.\"\n\nJohnson met Etta Terry Duryea, a Brooklyn socialite and former wife of Clarence Duryea, at a car race in 1909. In 1910, Johnson hired a private investigator to follow Duryea after suspecting she was having an affair with his chauffeur. On Christmas Day, Johnson confronted Duryea and beat her so badly she was hospitalized. They reconciled and were married in January 1911. Prone to depression, her condition worsened because of Johnson's abuse and infidelity. She committed suicide in September 1912, shooting herself.\nOn December 4, 1912, Johnson married Lucille Cameron. Cameron divorced him in 1924 because of infidelity.\n\nThe next year, Johnson married Irene Pineau. When asked by a reporter at Johnson's funeral what she had loved about him, she replied, \"I loved him because of his courage. He faced the world unafraid. There wasn't anybody or anything he feared.\"\n\nOn October 18, 1912, Johnson was arrested on the grounds that his relationship with Lucille Cameron violated the Mann Act against \"transporting women across state lines for immoral purposes\" due to her being an alleged prostitute. Her mother also swore that her daughter was insane. Cameron, soon to become his second wife, refused to cooperate and the case fell apart. Less than a month later, Johnson was arrested again on similar charges. This time, the woman, another alleged prostitute named Belle Schreiber, with whom he had been involved in 1909 and 1910, testified against him. In the courtroom of Kenesaw Mountain Landis, the future Commissioner of Baseball who perpetuated the baseball color line until his death, Johnson was convicted by an all-white jury in June 1913, despite the fact that the incidents used to convict him took place before passage of the Mann Act. He was sentenced to a year and a day in prison.\n\nJohnson skipped bail and left the country, joining Lucille in Montreal on June 25, before fleeing to France. To flee to Canada, Johnson posed as a member of a black baseball team. For the next seven years, they lived in exile in Europe, South America and Mexico. Johnson returned to the U.S. on July 20, 1920. He surrendered to federal agents at the Mexican border and was sent to the United States Penitentiary, Leavenworth to serve his sentence in September 1920. He was released on July 9, 1921.\n\nThere have been recurring proposals to grant Johnson a posthumous presidential pardon. A bill requesting President George W. Bush to pardon Johnson in 2008 passed the House, but failed to pass in the Senate. In April 2009, Senator John McCain, along with Representative Peter King, film maker Ken Burns and Johnson's great-niece, Linda Haywood, requested a presidential pardon for Johnson from President Barack Obama. In July of that year, Congress passed a resolution calling on President Obama to issue a pardon. In 2016, another petition for Johnson's pardon was issued by McCain, King, Senator Harry Reid and Congressman Gregory Meeks to President Obama, marking the 70th anniversary since the boxer's death. This time citing a provision of the Every Student Succeeds Act, signed by the president in December 2015, in which Congress expressed that this boxing great should receive a posthumous pardon, and a vote by the United States Commission on Civil Rights passed unanimously a week earlier in June 2016 to \"right this century-old wrong.\"\n\nMike Tyson, Harry Reid and John McCain lent their support to the campaign, starting a Change.org petition asking President Obama to posthumously pardon the world's first African-American boxing champion of his racially motivated 1913 felony conviction.\n\nIn April 2018, President Donald Trump announced that he was considering a full pardon of Johnson after speaking with actor Sylvester Stallone. Trump pardoned Johnson on May 24 of that year.\n\nOn June 10, 1946, Johnson died in a car crash on U.S. Highway 1 near Franklinton, North Carolina a small town near Raleigh, after racing angrily from a diner that refused to serve him. He was taken to the closest black hospital, Saint Agnes Hospital in Raleigh. He was 68 years old at the time of his death. He was buried next to Etta Duryea Johnson at Graceland Cemetery in Chicago. His grave was initially unmarked, and then marked with a large stone that bore only the name \"Johnson.\" This changed after 2005 and the film by Ken Burns. Johnson's (new, smaller) stone reads [top] \"Jack / John A. Johnson / 1878-1946\" [front] \"First black heavyweight / champion of the world\". Johnson's signature is on the back of the stone. Etta's stone, which matches his, is next to it. The stone marked \"Johnson\" once stood above the plots of Jack, Etta, and Irene Pineau.\n\nJohnson was an inaugural 1954 inductee to \"The Ring\" magazine's Boxing Hall of Fame (disbanded in 1987), and was inducted to the International Boxing Hall of Fame in 1993. In 2005, the United States National Film Preservation Board deemed the film of the 1910 Johnson-Jeffries fight \"historically significant\" and put it in the National Film Registry.\n\nDuring his boxing career, Jack Johnson fought 114 fights, winning 80 matches, 45 by knockouts.\n\nJohnson's skill as a fighter and the money that it brought made it impossible for him to be ignored by the establishment. In the short term, the boxing world reacted against Johnson's legacy. But Johnson foreshadowed one of the most famous boxers of all time, Muhammad Ali. In fact, Ali often spoke of how he was influenced by Jack Johnson. Ali identified with Johnson because he felt America ostracized him in the same manner because of his opposition to the Vietnam War and affiliation with the Nation of Islam.\n\nIn 2002, scholar Molefi Kete Asante listed Jack Johnson on his list of 100 Greatest African Americans.\n\nIn 2012, the City of Galveston dedicated a park in Johnson's memory as Galveston Island's most famous native son. The park, called Jack Johnson Park, includes a life-size, bronze statue of Johnson.\n\nJohnson's story is the basis of the play and subsequent 1970 movie \"The Great White Hope,\" starring James Earl Jones as Johnson (known as Jack Jefferson in the movie), and Jane Alexander as his love interest. Both Jones and Alexander were nominated for Oscars. (Retrieved from the sleeve. \"The Great White Hope.\" Netflix DVD. 1970.)\n\nHis fight with Tommy Burns was turned into a contemporary documentary \"The Burns-Johnson Fight\" in 1908.\n\nIn 2005, filmmaker Ken Burns produced a two-part documentary about Johnson's life, \",\" based on the 2004 nonfiction book of the same name by Geoffrey C. Ward. The book won the William Hill Sports Book of the Year (2006).\n\nJack Johnson's life was the subject of a three-part series of the podcast \"History on Fire\" by historian Daniele Bolelli.\n\nFolksinger and blues singer Lead Belly referenced Johnson in a song about the \"Titanic\": \"Jack Johnson wanna get on board, Captain said I ain't hauling no coal. Fare thee, Titanic, fare thee well. When Jack Johnson heard that mighty shock, mighta seen the man do the Eagle rock. Fare thee, Titanic, fare thee well\" (The Eagle Rock was a popular dance at the time). In 1969, American folk singer Jaime Brockett reworked the Lead Belly song into a satirical talking blues called \"The Legend of the S.S. Titanic.\" There is no convincing evidence that Johnson was in fact refused passage on the \"Titanic\" because of his race, as these songs allege.\n\nThe end of Miles Davis's 1971 album titled \"A Tribute to Jack Johnson\" features the actor Brock Peters (as Johnson) saying:\n\nMiles Davis and Wynton Marsalis both have done soundtracks for documentaries about Johnson. Several hip-hop activists have also reflected on Johnson's legacy, most notably in the album \"The New Danger,\" by Mos Def, in which songs like \"Zimzallabim\" and \"Blue Black Jack\" are devoted to the artist's pugilistic hero. Additionally, both Southern punk rock band This Bike is a Pipe Bomb and alternative country performer Tom Russell have songs dedicated to Johnson. Russell's piece is both a tribute and a biting indictment of the racism Johnson faced: \"here comes Jack Johnson, like he owns the town, there's a lot of white Americans like to see a man go down ... like to see a black man drown.\"\n\n\"Big Strong Man\" or \"My Brother Sylveste\" is an English-language folk song associated with Ireland referencing the \"Jeffries-Johnson fight\" of 1910 with the lyric: \"Have you heard about the Jeffrey Johnson fight?/Oh, Lord what a hell of a fight.\" The song was popular with Canadian soldiers in World War II.\n\nIn the trenches of World War One, Johnson's name was used by British troops to describe the impact of German 150 mm heavy artillery shells which had a black colour. In his letters home to his wife, Rupert Edward Inglis (1863–1916), a former rugby international who was a Forces Chaplain, describes passing through the town of Albert:\n\nJack Johnson was painted several times by Raymond Saunders.\n\nIn Joe R. Lansdale's short story \"The Big Blow,\" Johnson is featured fighting a white boxer brought in by Galveston, Texas's boxing fans to defeat the African American fighter during the 1900 Galveston Hurricane. The story won a Bram Stoker Award and was expanded into a novel.\n\nJohnson is a major character in the novel \"The Killings of Stanley Ketchel\" (2005), by James Carlos Blake.\n\n\"The Royale\", a play by Marco Ramirez, uses the life of Jack Johnson as inspiration for its main character, Jay Jackson. It premiered in March 2016 at Lincoln Center Theater directed by Rachel Chavkin, and was nominated for a Drama Desk Awards for Outstanding Play, Outstanding Director of a Play, and a Special Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Ensemble.\n\n\n87. Papa Jack, Jack Johnson and the Era of the White Hopes, Randy Roberts, Macmillan, 1983, Chapter 8.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23245919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23245919", "title": "Kay Laurell", "text": "Kay Laurell\n\nKay Laurell (born Ruth Leslie, June 28, 1890 – January 31, 1927) was an American stage and silent film actress and model.\n\nLaurell began her career as an artists' model. After catching the eye of Florenz Ziegfeld, Jr., she was cast in the \"Ziegfeld Follies\" where she debuted in 1914. A popular performer who was noted for her beauty, she was called \"one of the most beautiful women on the stage\". In 1918, Laurell left the \"Follies\" to embark on an acting career. She went on to appear in stage productions on Broadway and in vaudeville, and made three silent films. In the 1920s, Laurell moved to Europe where she continued her stage career. She died during childbirth at the age of 36 in London.\n\nLaurell was born in 1890 (some sources state 1894) in Erie, Pennsylvania. She left Erie at the age of 16 to pursue a career in show business in New York City. She initially found work as telephone operator before she was hired as an artists' model. During her stint as a model, she posed for artists and illustrators including Howard Chandler Christy and William Glackens. It was during this time that Ruth Leslie changed her name to Kay Laurell.\n\nIn 1914, Florenz Ziegfeld, Jr. saw Laurell while she was appearing in a tableau staged at the annual Illustrators' Ball. Ziegfeld was impressed by Laurell's appearance and offered her a spot in the \"Ziegfeld Follies\".\n\nLaurell made her stage debut in the \"Ziegfeld Follies of 1914\". The following year, she caused a sensation when she appeared in the opening scene of the 1915 \"Follies\" as a semi-nude Aphrodite. The scene was designed by Joseph Urban and featured an elaborate set with a pool surrounded by greenery. Laurell rose out of the water flanked by two golden elephants with raised trunks from which water poured. According to Doris Eaton Travis' 2003 autobiography \"The Days We Danced\", Laurell became known for \"those naked-above-the-waist poses\". At that time, performers were permitted to appear nude onstage as long as they did not move. This loophole in the law inspired stage producers and set designers to come up with more inventive and elaborate ways to feature nudity in their shows. Eaton Travis later recalled, \"The story was that Ziegfeld asked for a volunteer to be naked above the waist, and Kay Laurell was the first to consent. Hers became the most revealed breasts on Broadway in that era.\" During this time, Laurell's popularity grew and she was often noted for her physical beauty and perfect figure. She was referred to as \"one of the most beautiful women on the stage\" and \"the prettiest chorus girl on Broadway.\" Florenz Ziegfeld stated that Laurell was the embodiment of feminine beauty.\n\nIn May 1916, Laurell married Winfield Sheehan, the former secretary to Rhinelander Waldo, in London. Shortly after the marriage, Laurell retired from the stage. In July 1917, she filed for legal separation from Sheehan citing \"cruelty\".\n\nAfter separating from Sheehan, Laurell resumed her career and returned to the \"Follies\" in June 1918. She was again featured in the opening scene, this time posing as \"The Spirit of the Allies\" atop a lighted, spinning globe. As World War I was still on, the globe showed Europe in flames. One of the more memorable tableau scenes of that year's \"Follies\" featured patriotic and war imagery designed by Ben Ali Haggin. Social historian Allen Churchill later described the scene, \"Actors in battle dress stood frozen in the act of tossing grenades, bayoneting cringing Huns...Follies Girls as Red Cross nurses, waifs in war-torn undress and goddess of war. Dominating the vivid scene was Miss Kay Laurell representing the Spirit of the Allies, her costume in enough disarray to expose one...breast.\" While the \"Follies\" typically featured light-hearted themes, audiences enjoyed the war themed scene of the 1918 \"Follies\". The show ran until the Armistice with Germany in November 1918.\nLike many other Ziegfeld girls, Laurell attempted to parlay the success she found in the \"Follies\" into an acting career. In 1919, she made her film debut in \"The Brand\", opposite Russell Simpson. Later that same year, she played a supporting role in \"The Valley of the Giants\", starring Wallace Reid. Laurell received positive reviews for her acting, but would only make one more silent film, \"Lonely Heart\", in 1921.\n\nLaurell focused mainly on stage work for the remainder of her career. In 1922, she joined the production of \"Ladies Night\". She remained with the play for a season before headlining the vaudeville circuit with stock companies in Yonkers and Washington. In December 1924, she joined the cast of \"Quarantine\". The play ran for a total of 151 performances at Henry Miller's Theatre through April 1925. Laurell then co-starred in \"Nocture\", which premiered at the Punch and Judy Theatre in New York City on February 16, 1925. The play ran for three performances before closing later that month.\n\nShe later moved to Europe where she found work in a French stock company in Paris. Laurell then moved to London. By this period, her career began to decline and her roles were no longer reported in theater trades.\n\nIn May 1916, Laurell married Winfield Sheehan. The couple separated in July 1917 but never divorced. Sheehan later became the general manager and vice president at 20th Century Fox.\n\nWhile separated from Sheehan, Laurell began a relationship with Joseph Whiteside Boyle, a businessman and the son of Klondike Joe Boyle. The couple planned to marry after both obtained divorced from their respective spouses. In 1926, Laurell became pregnant.\n\nOn January 31, 1927, Laurell died in London at the age of 36. Laurell's death was initially attributed to pneumonia. In 1930, the press discovered that Laurell had actually died while giving birth to her first and only child. The child, a boy named Joseph K. Boyle, survived.\n\nBefore her death, Laurell drew up a will leaving her property and personal effects to Joseph Whiteside Boyle (who was presumed to be the child's father) and named him the executor of her estate. Laurell left her $100,000 estate to Boyle because she was unaware that her son, who was born out of wedlock, could legally inherit her assets. However, one month before Laurell's death, the Legitimacy Act 1926 was passed in England which allowed her son to inherit her assets. A similar law in New York (where Laurell also had bank accounts and property) also allowed her son to inherit his mother's estate.\n\nConcerned for the child's welfare, Laurell's brother Raleigh J. Leslie, sought a letter of administration for her estate naming Joseph K. as her next of kin. He later dropped the matter after discovering that the boy's father, Joseph Whiteside Boyle, had been caring for the child since birth and had no plans to claim Laurell's estate. One month after Laurell's death, her mother Mrs. A.A. Leslie, died in Erie, Pennsylvania. Laurell's mother was never told of her daughter's death as she was dying at the time. Upon Mrs. Leslie's death, she left her Erie, Pennsylvania home and assets to Laurell which were subsequently inherited by Laurell's son.\n\nH.L. Mencken said Laurell possessed \"all the arts of the really first-rate harlot\" and was \"the most successful practitioner of her trade of her generation in New York.\" He said, \"Much of what I got from her, in fact, went into \"In Defense of Women\"\", his 1918 book. Playwright Channing Pollock wrote, however, \"Kay could have gone far if she had been willing to exchange her favors for advancement, but she didn't 'want to get ahead that way'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4405330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4405330", "title": "Leoben Conoy", "text": "Leoben Conoy\n\nLeoben Conoy (Number Two) is a fictional character portrayed by Callum Keith Rennie appearing in the reimagined \"Battlestar Galactica\" series.\n\nLeoben is a humanoid Cylon agent who portrays himself as possessing philosophical and religious enlightenment. Meanwhile, he delights in playing mind games by engaging in disorienting and poetic discourse that entwines truth and lies. The Number Two series model seems to be one of the physically strongest type among the humanoid cylons, demonstrating superhuman feats such as snapping handcuffs and tossing people around like ragdolls.\n\nLeoben expresses what can be judged a panentheistic view of God as inherent in all beings, telling Starbuck, \"We're all God.\"\n\nIn the fourth season episode \"Six of One\", Conoy's model number was revealed as Number Two.\n\nLeoben Conoy is first encountered in the miniseries by Commander Adama hiding in the Ragnar Anchorage supply depot posing as an arms dealer scrounging for weapons and supplies. Apparently to avoid arrest, Leoben offers to help Adama's supply team gather cannon shells for \"Galactica\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s defensive guns. After an explosive device accidentally detonates, Adama is trapped with Leoben and separated from the rest of the crew. They look for a way out, engaging in philosophical conversation, all the while Leoben claims to be suffering from allergies. As Adama and Leoben converse, Adama notices Leoben Conoy's \"allergies\" getting worse. This makes Adama suspicious as he feels it may be a reaction Cylons have to radiation (in this case emitted by the gas giant the anchorage orbits). Eventually, Leoben confirms Adama's suspicions, admitting his true nature.\n\nAdama and Leoben fight and in the ensuing struggle, Leoben reacts with amazing speed and strength, but Adama manages to kill him by bludgeoning him in the head with a flashlight. Just prior to his demise, Leoben Conoy reveals to Adama that Cylons can be \"resurrected\" with their persona downloaded into another copy upon death, allowing all of their experiences to be saved and providing effective immortality. It is implied, however, the radiation field surrounding Ragnar Anchorage prevents Leoben from downloading to a Cylon facility for proper resurrection.\n\nAfter Adama is rescued, Leoben Conoy's body is taken back to \"Galactica\" and examined, revealing humanoid Cylon variants are almost identical to humans.\n\nIn the episode \"Flesh and Bone\", a copy of Leoben is found in the fleet hiding aboard the \"Gemenon Traveller\" and is arrested. After dodging questions and playing mind games he claims he has planted a nuclear bomb within the fleet. Leoben is subsequently tortured for information by Starbuck, something he submits to even though he is shown to be capable of breaking free of his restraints and killing her. He demonstrates a growing obsession with Starbuck throughout the episode, and the interrogation becomes a contest between the two of them. President Laura Roslin intervenes in the interrogation and more courteously questions him. He then makes startling predictions about Kobol and the future of the fleet. After he admits that there was no bomb (and frightens Roslin by claiming Adama is a Cylon spy), Roslin has him vented into space.\n\nIn the final episode of 2nd season \"Lay Down Your Burdens, Part II\", Leoben appears again during the Cylon invasion of New Caprica. He asks Starbuck's husband Samuel Anders for Starbuck's whereabouts.\n\nIn the third season premier \"Occupation\", it is revealed Starbuck has been captured by the Cylons, and is forced to live with Leoben for a number of months. During this period she has killed him five times, though he would simply resurrect and return, exercising extreme patience in his task of winning Starbuck's affection.\n\nLeoben claims he created a baby from an egg retrieved from Starbuck's ovary (see \"The Farm\") and presents a girl named Kacey. He says Kacey is a half-Cylon hybrid, Starbuck and Leoben being the parents. In \"Exodus\" (part 2), however, it is revealed Kacey is a human child taken from her mother on New Caprica, and the two are reunited (much to Starbuck's shock) when Starbuck and Kacey arrive back on \"Galactica\".\n\nEver since Starbuck first encountered Leoben aboard the \"Gemenon Traveller\" and during the time she was forced to live with him on New Caprica, Leoben has continually told her she has a special destiny and an important role to play in future events. Despite Starbuck's guilt that she has been nothing but a \"screw up\" since childhood, Leoben tries to show she is more significant than she believes. In later episodes of the third season, Starbuck has bizarre dreams of Leoben, with some becoming markedly erotic.\n\nIn the episode \"Maelstrom\", Starbuck begins hallucinating things, such as her younger self, fleeting images of her mother, and finally non-existent Cylon Raiders. Because of this, her fitness for duty comes into question. Thinking she's losing her mind, she seeks help from an oracle who tells her Leoben is her spiritual guide and her deceased mother, Socrata Thrace, is using him to get a message to her.\n\nDuring a hallucinatory dogfight with a Raider, Starbuck's Viper takes damage and she falls into unconsciousness, ending up in a dream of her mother's apartment. Leoben appears and takes Starbuck to a scene six years prior, where she learns her mother is dying of cancer. However, her mother's heartless and derogatory comments force Starbuck to walk out on her mother for good. Her mother dies alone and Starbuck kept the pain of that decision locked inside her.\n\nLeoben next takes her to the moment of her mother's death and allows Starbuck another chance to be with her mother at her deathbed. Leoben consoles Starbuck, telling her death is nothing to fear. Starbuck states \"You're not Leoben,\" to which he replies, \"Never said I was. I'm here to prepare you to pass through the next door; to discover what hovers in the space between life and death.\" Starbuck finally accepts (apparent) death and decides to go down with her damaged Viper when it explodes in the atmosphere of a gas giant. Starbuck's reappearance in \"Crossroads Part II,\" where she tells Lee Adama it really is her and that she has been to Earth, may suggest the destiny Leoben had been guiding her to involves much more than her death.\n\nThe copy of Leoben that held Starbuck captive on New Caprica returns to offer a truce between the Colonials and the Cylon Rebels. In \"The Road Less Traveled\", he helps Starbuck finish a painting of part of her vision, and eventually convinces her to travel to his severely damaged basestar, in \"Faith\". Onboard she discovers part of her painted vision of the road to Earth: a trinary star system possessing a gas giant with a rapidly receding and damaged basestar that appeared as a comet. Leoben takes her to see the ships's Hybrid who gives Starbuck a cryptic and disturbing message. The Hybrid suggests unboxing the D'Anna models to help locate the final five but informs Starbuck she is the harbinger of death leading humanity to its end.\n\nIn \"Sometimes a Great Notion\", upon reaching Earth from the coordinates of Starbuck's Viper, Leoben accompanies Starbuck through a desolate landscape, eventually coming upon the ruins of a crashed Viper. The dead pilot of the Viper is revealed to be Starbuck. Starbuck asks him \"What am I?\" Leoben has no answer for her and appears to be extremely alarmed by this turn of events.\n\nHaving sided with the Colonials, along with the Sixes and Eights, against the remaining Cylon forces led by John Cavil, Leoben is instrumental in aiding them throughout their final confrontation. When Starbuck's interpretation of the musical notes in her head leads everyone to a new planet (which is later identified as our Earth), the Leoben series, along with the remnants of the Colonials, the Sixes and Eights, vote to settle the new world and help make a difference in rebuilding civilization before they \"pass into God's hands\". The Leobens, like his Cylon counterparts and the remnants of humanity, pass into history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12227894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12227894", "title": "List of participants at the Battle of Badr", "text": "List of participants at the Battle of Badr\n\nAn incomplete list of participants at the Battle of Badr.\n\n\n\nAlif\n\nBa'\n\n\nTa'\n\nTha'\n\n\nJeem\n\n\nHa'\n\nKha'\n\n\nDhal\n\n\nRa\n\n\nZa\n\n\nSeen\n\n\nSheen\n\n\nSad\n\n\nDad\n\n\nTa'\n\n\nZa'\n\n\n'Ayn\n\n\nGhayn\n\nGhannam ibn Aws al-Khazraji.\n\nFa'\n\n\nQaf\n\n\nKaaf\n\n\nLaam\n\n\nMeem\n\n\nNoon\n\nHa'\n\n\nWaw\n\n\nYa'\n\n\nAl-Kuniyah\n\n\n\nIshaq, Ibn, and A. Guillaume. \"The Great Expedition of Badr.\" The Life of Muhammad: A Translation of Ishāq's Sīrat Rasūl Allāh. Lahore: Pakistan Branch, Oxford UP. Digital. (https://archive.org/details/TheLifeOfMohammedGuillaume)\n"}
{"id": "433258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433258", "title": "Mars Desert Research Station", "text": "Mars Desert Research Station\n\nThe Mars Desert Research Station (MDRS) is the second simulated Mars analog habitat owned and operated by the Mars Society.\n\nThe station was built near Hanksville, Utah, in the western United States in the early 2000s, and it is typically manned by small crews who visit the station for one week to three month rotations to conduct scientific research.\n\nThe campus includes a two-story habitat (the Hab), a greenhouse (the GreenHab), a solar observatory(the Musk Observatory), a robotic observatory, an engineering pod (the RAM) and a science building (the ScienceDome). Tunnels between all of the buildings except the robotic observatory allow crews to travel between the buildings without a spacesuit while they are in simulation (sim). \n\nThe MDRS station is situated on the San Rafael Swell of southern Utah, located by road northwest of Hanksville, Utah. It is the second such analogue research station to be built by the Mars Society, following in the footsteps of the Flashline Mars Arctic Research Station or FMARS on Devon Island in Canada's high Arctic.\n\nThe third station, the European Mars Analog Research Station or EuroMARS was founded and built in early 2002. It was shipped to the UK in the mid 2000s in preparation for deployment to the selected research site (approximately N65° 46' 7.18\" W16° 45' 30.50\") which is located next to the Krafla Rift Volcano, about north east of the village of Myvatn, Iceland.\n\nThe fourth station, the Australia Mars Analog Research Station / MARS Oz is currently in the planning stages and it will be deployed to the selected research site (S 30° 18' 13.91\" E 139° 26' 39.55\") east of the Arkaroola Sanctuary, which itself is roughly north of Adelaide, South Australia.\n\nThe Mars Society launched the Mars Analog Research Station (MARS) Project in order to develop key knowledge needed to prepare for the human exploration of Mars. The project's goals are to develop field tactics based on environmental constraints (i.e., being required to work in spacesuits), to test habitat design features and tools, and to assess crew selection protocols. Although much warmer than Mars, the desert location was selected because of its Mars-like terrain and appearance.\n\nFrom the moment they arrive at MDRS, crews enter a \"living on Mars\" simulation. Crew members must wear an analogue space suit simulator or a \"sim suit\" when completing tasks outside the Habitat (HAB) to simulate the protection they would need from the harsh Martian environment. Complete analogue space suit simulators include a helmet, jumpsuit, boots, gaithers, gloves, an air supply pack, Platypus water pack, and a radio. Hand held radios mounted on the suits' helmets (with externally mounted push to talk switches) are used to communicate with Habitat communication base (Hab-com) and with fellow analogue Mars surface explorers on the same EVA. For safety reasons, there is always one crew member in the HAB to act as Hab-Com in case anything goes wrong on the extra-vehicular activity (EVA). In the event that crew's vehicles break down or one of their members becomes injured in the field, being able to communicate with the HAB is crucial to protect the safety of the people partaking in the analogue Mars surface exploration simulation mission.\n\nDestinations for EVAs can be chosen from an established waypoint database and traveled to either on foot or by ATV.\n\nMDRS is owned and operated by The Mars Society, which selects the crews and handles most of the administrative tasks. The Mars Society is an international, non-profit organization, with chapters worldwide, that is dedicated to convincing governments and the public of the benefits of Mars exploration through various projects such as M.A.R.S., the Mars Analogue Pressurized Rover Competition, and the ARCHIMEDES Mars balloon mission.\n\nStudents interested in participating in the project receive a $500 travel stipend from the Spaceward Bound Program run out of NASA Ames Research Center. The Spaceward Bound Program aims to train the next generation of space explorers by allowing students and teachers to participate in projects in extreme environments that can serve as simulations for the moon or Mars. \n\nA Local Manager has been hired to take care of some of the maintenance and support services.\n\nEach crew establishes different scientific goals they hope to accomplish during their time at MDRS. The majority of the biological studies carried out involve extremophiles, or organisms that are capable of living in extreme environments. Bacteria and algae isolated from the surrounding desert are common subjects of study. These microorganisms have been studied for their DNA, diversity and the environments they live in. For example, in a study for methanogens researchers studied soil and vapour samples from five different desert environments in Utah, Idaho and California in the United States, and in Canada and Chile. Of these, five soil samples and three vapour samples from the vicinity of the MDRS were found to have signs of viable methanogens.\n\nA unique opportunity to combine geology and biology occurs when studying the endoliths found in rocks around the Hab. These species of bacteria are capable of living inside rocks and obtaining the energy they need by photosynthesizing using the light that penetrates the rocks. These extreme organisms are a popular subject of research at MDRS for both geologists and biologists.\n\nOther experiments include a study of the effect of EVAs on the heart rates and blood pressures of crew members, a human factors study that examine the correlation between cognitive ability and mood and a study on how much a space suit inhibits dexterity in comparison to regular street clothes.\n\nMDRS crews traditionally consist of six people, who volunteer for one of the two-week shifts or crew rotations available during the northern hemisphere's winter months. The field season ends in the northern spring since the summer heat of the desert is not conducive to a pleasant simulation. Crews pay all of their own transportation expenses to get to and from the designated assembly place from where they are transported to and from MDRS. As Volunteers, the Crews are not paid for their participation in a crew rotation at the station, but do get valuable experience. The crews usually consist of a mix of Scientist, astronomers, physicists, biologists, geologists, engineers and the occasional journalist. Each crew member is usually assigned a role: Commander, Executive Officer (ExO), Health and Safety Officer (HSO), Crew Biologist, Crew Geologist or Chief Engineer.\n\nThe Crew Commander is ultimately responsible for the entire crew and operations. Their other responsibilities include maintaining a structured stream of information from the crew to Mission Support, establishing the agenda for each day (EVAs, maintenance, cooking, cleaning, etc.) and holding morning and evening meetings with all crew members. The Executive Officer's duty is to act as the second in command during the mission and to act as the Commander in the event that the Commander is incapacitated or unavailable. The Crew Geologist and the Crew Biologist work together to establish and accomplish the science goals of the mission. The Crew Geologist and Crew Biologist are in charge of developing the geology and biology goals for the mission, planning field EVAs and subsequent laboratory work to achieve those goals. Both the Crew Geologist and Crew Biologist work with the Remote Science Team (RST) during all stages of the mission. The Chief Engineer is responsible for maintaining all systems necessary for routine Hab operations. These include the power, water, ATV and GreenHab systems.\n\n, 175 crews have served rotations at MDRS over a period of sixteen years.\n\nThe research station consists of three buildings, the Habitat, the Greenhab, the Musk Mars Desert Observatory and a remotely located Engineering Support Equipment Area.\n\nThe analogue Mars Lander Habitat, commonly referred to as \"The HAB\", is a two-story cylinder that measures about in diameter and is a crew's combined home and place of work during a Mars surface exploration simulation. On the first floor there are two simulated airlocks, a shower and toilet, an EVA Preparation room for storage and maintenance of the simulated space suits and their associated equipment, and a combined science lab and engineering work area. The laboratory is shared between the Crew Geologist and the Crew Biologist and includes an autoclave, analytical balance, microscope, and a stock of chemicals and reagents for conducting biochemical tests. On the second floor are six very small private crew staterooms with bunks and a small reading desk, a common dining and entertainment area, a dedicated communications station and a galley or kitchen equipped with a gas stove, refrigerator, microwave, oven and a sink for meal preparations. Above the six crew staterooms is a Loft which contains the internal fresh water storage tank and equipment storage space. At the peak of the HAB's dome shaped roof is an access hatch to permit maintenance access to the satellite antenna and weather monitoring instruments.\n\nPower is supplied by 12 rechargeable 24-volt batteries, located under the HAB which can provide electrical power for up to twelve hours. In addition to the batteries are two electricity generators named respectively \"Casper\" and \"Wendy\". Power from the generators is channeled through a Xantrex inverter, which sends the power either to the battery banks to recharge them or via a panel with 19 circuit breakers, to the HAB electrical distribution system.\n\nWater is supplied to the HAB via a potable water tank located away in the Engineering Support Equipment Area. The tank is a plastic storage container with a capacity (8 days worth of water at per person per day). Water must be manually carried or pumped via a hose from the potable water tank to the HAB's internal tank, which holds about . The water is then gravity fed into a pressure pump that distributes the fresh water to the rest of the HAB, including a water heater. The water used to flush toilet is greywater. This is waste water that has run down the sink and shower drains in the HAB and then through the greywater system out of the GreenHab. Water is rationed and monitored to minimize inefficiency and waste in the system.\n\nThe HAB is also equipped with an internet connection and several web cams so that the public can view the ongoing mission.\n\nThe GreenHab is a greenhouse used for growing crops and plant research. The original Gary Fisher GreenHab, retrofitted in 2009 from a closed loop water recycling center to a functional greenhouse, was destroyed by fire in December 2014, and replaced in September 2015 after an Indiegogo campaign raised $12,540 to rebuild it. \n\nOriginally the rebuilt GreenHab was planned as a geodesic dome. However, once the pad and frame were in place, there appeared to be no way to make it wind and winter tight, so it was completed as the new ScienceDome. The new Greenhab is a 12 foot by 24 foot transparent building that is climate and light controlled. The plants grown in the Greenhab are mostly herbs, greens, radishes, tomatoes, and other vegetables.\n\nThe Musk Mars Desert Observatory houses a Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope, donated by Celestron. The telescope is capable of being operated remotely, and is accessible to amateur and professional astronomers via the internet. The observatory's other sponsors include Le Sueur Manufacturing Inc., which provided the Astro-Pier on which the telescope is mounted; Software Bisque, which provided TheSky software; Vince Lanzetta of East Coast Observatories; Adirondack Video Astronomy; High Point Scientific; Technical Innovations; and the Lehigh Valley Amateur Astronomical Association.\n\nThe addition of the Musk Mars Desert Observatory provides research opportunities that were not available before, not only to the crew, but local teachers and students. It also encourages more public involvement as students and teachers are invited to interact with the crew and to use the observatory as a learning tool.\n\nEngineering tasks are completed in the RAM (Repair and assembly module) a retrofitted Chinook helicopter fuel compartment designed with for tool storage, and work spaces for engineering project and repair of station instruments. It was moved to the campus in October 2017 and became fully operational in November 2018.\n\nNorth of the GreenHAB is the underground septic tank and its outflow field. This area is a \"No Drive - Foot Traffic Only Zone\" as there is no record of where exactly the septic tank is buried. East of the GreenHab is an omnidirectional Jovian radio telescope.\n\nThe MDRS is the site of the University Rover Challenge, the first of which was held on June 2, 2007.\n\nThe Flag of Mars appears on a couple of the buildings, as does the Flag of the United States. The Mars Society logo is also present in a few places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2530724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530724", "title": "Mercy Graves", "text": "Mercy Graves\n\nMercedes \"Mercy\" Graves III is a fictional character owned by American comic books publisher DC Comics. She debuted in 1996 on \"\" as the personal assistant and bodyguard of Superman's archenemy, Lex Luthor. Like Harley Quinn, Chloe Sullivan, and Livewire, Mercy Graves has since crossed over into comic books and is part of the DC Universe.\n\nThe character was portrayed by Tao Okamoto in the 2016 film \"\". She was portrayed by Rhona Mitra in the fourth season of the television series \"Supergirl\".\n\nMercy Graves was created for \"\" (voiced by Lisa Edelstein) as a tough young woman with a checkered past. Mercy serves as Lex Luthor's personal bodyguard and chauffeur. Originally the leader of a gang of female thieves, Mercy once daringly swiped Luthor's briefcase from under the billionaire's nose. She did not get far before Luthor's men hunted her down. However, rather than take revenge, Luthor, impressed by her mixture of ruthlessness and street savvy, offered her a job. He took her in, cleaned her up, and made her his right-hand woman. Trained in unarmed combat, she was entrusted with his personal security and also to carry out his dirty work.\n\nHer demeanor reveals a sardonic wit and her habitual dress is a chauffeur's uniform with a very short skirt, a chauffeur's cap, nylons, and short, high heeled boots. Mercy is loyal and respectful to Luthor, and she claims to be \"the only one in Luthor's entire company who can get away with calling him Lex\".\n\nIn the episode \"Brave New Metropolis\" Lois Lane travels to an alternate reality of Metropolis. Mercy Graves is the commander of Lex Luthor's law-enforcement group. She and her soldiers raid the hideout of the revolutionaries led by Jimmy Olsen where they arrest the revolutionaries, confiscate the stolen Kryptonite, send the adults to prison, and send any children of the revolutionaries to the LexCorp Orphanage. When she hears Jimmy call out to Lois, Mercy had her brought before Lex Luthor after the DNA tests prove that she is Lois Lane. Lex Luthor decided that in order to keep Superman at bay, it would be best to dispose of Lois. He sent Mercy to kill her in the city. On their way, they came across Angela Chen, who managed to distract the commander. Lois stole Mercy's gun and before she could react, Angela had bitten her leg. Lois made her getaway. Lois and the alternate Superman met where he learned what Lex Luthor has been doing behind his back. In the LexCorp building, Mercy was present when Lois and Superman confronted Luthor. Mercy fought Lois, but ultimately lost when Lois planted a jaw-breaking left hook. Rebels stormed into the room and poured onto the hated Mercy while Superman pursued Lex Luthor.\nIn the episode \"Ghost in the Machine,\" Mercy teams up with Superman to find a missing Lex Luthor. Superman tries to convince Mercy that Luthor does not actually care for her; Mercy tries to prove him wrong. However, after a battle with Brainiac, Mercy is pinned under a pile of fallen machinery while the room caves in. Although Luthor could have saved her, he flees instead causing Superman to save her.\n\nDuring the \"World's Finest\" crossover arc, Mercy develops an intense rivalry with Harley Quinn, the Joker's henchwoman and on again/off again girlfriend. During the arc's climactic episode, Harley duct tapes Mercy's mouth shut and ties her to a killer android that attacks Batman and Superman. She is saved by the two, and is later seen watching television and laughing as Harley is publicly arrested.\n\nMercy Graves later reappears in the \"Justice League\" episode \"Tabula Rasa\". The nature of her relationship with Luthor becomes more clear. Mercy has agreed to take over LexCorp while Luthor is in prison and is hesitant to return it to him because she feels their former relationship was not an equal one. She also states that while she was the CEO of LexCorp, she brought the stock up 38% and removed certain departments in the science division finding them useless or in order to save money. Lex Luthor exacerbates the situation by verbally and physically abusing her. It is repeatedly implied that their relationship was not solely platonic. Mercy grudgingly assists Luthor's escape from the Justice League. However, his deceitful manipulation of another devoted servant causes Mercy to see their years together in a different light. After his capture, Mercy hangs up on Lex Luthor during his single phone call when he requests help in obtaining a lawyer and doctors to treat his Kryptonite-caused cancer.\n\nMercy Graves reappears in the \"Justice League Unlimited\" episode \"Clash\". She was seen at Lex Luthor's side again implying that her new self-confidence is gone.\n\nMercy Graves first appears in the DC Universe in \"Detective Comics\" #735 (August 1999), during the \"No Man's Land\" storyline in the Batman titles. This version of Mercy has blonde hair and does not wear a chauffeur's uniform. She is later joined by another female bodyguard in Luthor's employ, Hope. It is suggested that the two may be Amazons, as they have exchanged blows with Superman. This possibility is referenced in the \"President Luthor: Secret Files and Origins\" comic when the sorceress Circe appears at the White House demanding to meet with Lex. Hope and Mercy inform Circe that they can always recognize her, no matter what disguise or form she might take, suggesting some previous familiarity. After temporarily changing them into birds Circe tells Lex that he will need to hire new Amazon bodyguards.\n\nAlthough Hope's time as a LexCorp employee has passed, Mercy can be seen with the fugitive Lex Luthor after he is driven from the Presidency. Despite her loyalty to Luthor, she has still shown some humanity even while in his employ; when Superman was searching for Lois Lane after she was abducted and impersonated by the Parasite, Mercy saw him during his search, and, in that moment, saw him not as an alien, but as a man who had lost everything. A Mercy-Harley Quinn fight is featured in \"Action Comics\" #765 (May 2000).\n\nIn the series \"52\", Mercy is seen alongside Luthor at the unveiling of his \"Be Your Own Hero\" program, and is injured when she fires several gunshots at Steel, which he deflects and sends back at her, hitting her in the right hand. She is later shown in Luthor's employ in \"52\" Week 40.\n\nMercy has appeared in the \"Infinity, Inc.\" series, apparently wanting to atone for her past deeds. In #8, she takes on the moniker \"Vanilla\" and wears a costume equipped with a special mask that will keep her identity hidden from the likes of Superman and Lex Luthor. In #10, she almost beats a man to death. She leaves the team soon after, accepting the fact that she is not \"hero\" material.\n\nMercy's Amazon heritage is confirmed in \"\", when the supervillain Prometheus nearly kills Supergirl with god-forged bullets he claimed he bought from Mercy.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Mercy Graves is reintroduced as an Asian American. She works as Lex Luthor's personal assistant and manages LexCorp during his absence.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTao Okamoto portrays Mercy Graves in the 2016 film \"\", making it Mercy's first official live-action appearance. This version is the personal assistant of Lex Luthor. She is killed in a bombing of the Capitol masterminded by Luthor during a Congressional hearing, in order to both discredit Superman and receive approval to use salvaged Kryptonian technology (first seen in 2013's \"Man of Steel\") against him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23678", "title": "Panspermia", "text": "Panspermia\n\nPanspermia () is the hypothesis that life exists throughout the Universe, distributed by space dust, meteoroids, asteroids, comets, planetoids, and also by spacecraft carrying unintended contamination by microorganisms. Distribution may have occurred between galaxies, and not to have been restricted to the limited scale of solar systems.\n\nPanspermia hypotheses propose (for example) that microscopic life-forms that can survive the effects of space (such as extremophiles) can become trapped in debris ejected into space after collisions between planets and small Solar System bodies that harbor life. Some organisms may travel dormant for an extended amount of time before colliding randomly with other planets or intermingling with protoplanetary disks. Under certain ideal impact circumstances (into a body of water, for example), and ideal conditions on a new planet's surfaces, it is possible that the surviving organisms could become active and begin to colonize their new environment. Panspermia studies concentrate not on how life began, but on the methods that may cause its distribution in the Universe.\n\nPseudo-panspermia (sometimes called \"soft panspermia\" or \"molecular panspermia\") argues that the pre-biotic organic building-blocks of life originated in space, became incorporated in the solar nebula from which planets condensed, and were further—and continuously—distributed to planetary surfaces where life then emerged (abiogenesis). From the early 1970s, it started to become evident that interstellar dust included a large component of organic molecules. Interstellar molecules are formed by chemical reactions within very sparse interstellar or circumstellar clouds of dust and gas. The dust plays a critical role in shielding the molecules from the ionizing effect of ultraviolet radiation emitted by stars.\n\nThe chemistry leading to life may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10 to 17 million years old. Though the presence of life is confirmed only on the Earth, some scientists think that extraterrestrial life is not only plausible, but probable or inevitable. Probes and instruments have started examining other planets and moons in the Solar System and in other planetary systems for evidence of having once supported simple life, and projects such as SETI attempt to detect radio transmissions from possible extraterrestrial civilizations.\n\nThe first known mention of the term was in the writings of the 5th-century BC Greek philosopher Anaxagoras. Panspermia began to assume a more scientific form through the proposals of Jöns Jacob Berzelius (1834), Hermann E. Richter (1865), Kelvin (1871), Hermann von Helmholtz (1879) and finally reaching the level of a detailed scientific hypothesis through the efforts of the Swedish chemist Svante Arrhenius (1903).\n\nFred Hoyle (1915–2001) and Chandra Wickramasinghe (born 1939) were influential proponents of panspermia. In 1974 they proposed the hypothesis that some dust in interstellar space was largely organic (containing carbon), which Wickramasinghe later proved to be correct. Hoyle and Wickramasinghe further contended that life forms continue to enter the Earth's atmosphere, and may be responsible for epidemic outbreaks, new diseases, and the genetic novelty necessary for macroevolution.\n\nIn an Origins Symposium presentation on April 7, 2009, physicist Stephen Hawking stated his opinion about what humans may find when venturing into space, such as the possibility of alien life through the theory of panspermia: \"Life could spread from planet to planet or from stellar system to stellar system, carried on meteors.\"\n\nThree series of astrobiology experiments have been conducted outside the International Space Station between 2008 and 2015 (EXPOSE) where a wide variety of biomolecules, microorganisms, and their spores were exposed to the solar flux and vacuum of space for about 1.5 years. Some organisms survived in an inactive state for considerable lengths of time, and those samples sheltered by simulated meteorite material provide experimental evidence for the likelihood of the hypothetical scenario of lithopanspermia.\n\nSeveral simulations in laboratories and in low Earth orbit suggest that ejection, entry and impact is survivable for some simple organisms. In 2015, remains of biotic material were found in 4.1 billion-year-old rocks in Western Australia, when the young Earth was about 400 million years old. According to one researcher, \"If life arose relatively quickly on Earth … then it could be common in the universe.\"\n\nIn April 2018, a Russian team published a paper which disclosed that they found DNA on the exterior of the ISS from land and marine bacteria similar to those previously observed in superficial micro layers at the Barents and Kara seas' coastal zones. They conclude \"The presence of the wild land and marine bacteria DNA on the ISS suggests their possible transfer from the stratosphere into the ionosphere with the ascending branch of the global atmospheric electrical circuit. Alternatively, the wild land and marine bacteria as well as the ISS bacteria may all have an ultimate space origin.\"\n\nIn October 2018, Harvard astronomers presented an analytical model that suggests matter—and potentially dormant spores—can be exchanged across the vast distances between galaxies, a process termed 'galactic panspermia', and not be restricted to the limited scale of solar systems.\n\nPanspermia can be said to be either interstellar (between star systems) or interplanetary (between planets in the same star system); its transport mechanisms may include comets, radiation pressure and lithopanspermia (microorganisms embedded in rocks). Interplanetary transfer of nonliving material is well documented, as evidenced by meteorites of Martian origin found on Earth. Space probes may also be a viable transport mechanism for interplanetary cross-pollination in the Solar System or even beyond. However, space agencies have implemented planetary protection procedures to reduce the risk of planetary contamination, although, as recently discovered, some microorganisms, such as Tersicoccus phoenicis, may be resistant to procedures used in spacecraft assembly clean room facilities. In 2012, mathematician Edward Belbruno and astronomers Amaya Moro-Martín and Renu Malhotra proposed that gravitational low-energy transfer of rocks among the young planets of stars in their birth cluster is commonplace, and not rare in the general galactic stellar population. Deliberate directed panspermia from space to seed Earth or sent from Earth to seed other planetary systems have also been proposed. One twist to the hypothesis by engineer Thomas Dehel (2006), proposes that plasmoid magnetic fields ejected from the magnetosphere may move the few spores lifted from the Earth's atmosphere with sufficient speed to cross interstellar space to other systems before the spores can be destroyed.\n\nIn 1903, Svante Arrhenius published in his article \"The Distribution of Life in Space\", the hypothesis now called radiopanspermia, that microscopic forms of life can be propagated in space, driven by the radiation pressure from stars. Arrhenius argued that particles at a critical size below 1.5 μm would be propagated at high speed by radiation pressure of the Sun. However, because its effectiveness decreases with increasing size of the particle, this mechanism holds for very tiny particles only, such as single bacterial spores. The main criticism of radiopanspermia hypothesis came from Iosif Shklovsky and Carl Sagan, who pointed out the proofs of the lethal action of space radiations (UV and X-rays) in the cosmos. Regardless of the evidence, Wallis and Wickramasinghe argued in 2004 that the transport of individual bacteria or clumps of bacteria, is overwhelmingly more important than lithopanspermia in terms of numbers of microbes transferred, even accounting for the death rate of unprotected bacteria in transit.\n\nThen, data gathered by the orbital experiments ERA, BIOPAN, EXOSTACK and EXPOSE, determined that isolated spores, including those of \"B. subtilis\", were killed by several orders of magnitude if exposed to the full space environment for a mere few seconds, but if shielded against solar UV, the spores were capable of surviving in space for up to six years while embedded in clay or meteorite powder (artificial meteorites). Though minimal protection is required to shelter a spore against UV radiation, exposure to solar UV and cosmic ionizing radiation of unprotected DNA, break it up into its bases. Also, exposing DNA to the ultrahigh vacuum of space alone is sufficient to cause DNA damage, so the transport of unprotected DNA or RNA during interplanetary flights powered solely by light pressure is extremely unlikely. The feasibility of other means of transport for the more massive shielded spores into the outer Solar System – for example, through gravitational capture by comets – is at this time unknown.\n\nBased on experimental data on radiation effects and DNA stability, it has been concluded that for such long travel times, boulder-sized rocks which are greater than or equal to 1 meter in diameter are required to effectively shield resistant microorganisms, such as bacterial spores against galactic cosmic radiation. These results clearly negate the radiopanspermia hypothesis, which requires single spores accelerated by the radiation pressure of the Sun, requiring many years to travel between the planets, and support the likelihood of interplanetary transfer of microorganisms within asteroids or comets, the so-called lithopanspermia hypothesis.\n\nLithopanspermia, the transfer of organisms in rocks from one planet to another either through interplanetary or interstellar space, remains speculative. Although there is no evidence that lithopanspermia has occurred in the Solar System, the various stages have become amenable to experimental testing.\n\nThomas Gold, a professor of astronomy, suggested in 1960 the hypothesis of \"Cosmic Garbage\", that life on Earth might have originated accidentally from a pile of waste products dumped on Earth long ago by extraterrestrial beings.\n\nDirected panspermia concerns the deliberate transport of microorganisms in space, sent to Earth to start life here, or sent from Earth to seed new planetary systems with life by introduced species of microorganisms on lifeless planets. The Nobel prize winner Francis Crick, along with Leslie Orgel proposed that life may have been purposely spread by an advanced extraterrestrial civilization, but considering an early \"RNA world\" Crick noted later that life may have originated on Earth. It has been suggested that 'directed' panspermia was proposed in order to counteract various objections, including the argument that microbes would be inactivated by the space environment and cosmic radiation before they could make a chance encounter with Earth.\n\nConversely, active directed panspermia has been proposed to secure and expand life in space. This may be motivated by biotic ethics that values, and seeks to propagate, the basic patterns of our organic gene/protein life-form. The panbiotic program would seed new planetary systems nearby, and clusters of new stars in interstellar clouds. These young targets, where local life would not have formed yet, avoid any interference with local life.\n\nFor example, microbial payloads launched by solar sails at speeds up to 0.0001 \"c\" (30,000 m/s) would reach targets at 10 to 100 light-years in 0.1 million to 1 million years. Fleets of microbial capsules can be aimed at clusters of new stars in star-forming clouds, where they may land on planets or be captured by asteroids and comets and later delivered to planets. Payloads may contain extremophiles for diverse environments and cyanobacteria similar to early microorganisms. Hardy multicellular organisms (rotifer cysts) may be included to induce higher evolution.\n\nThe probability of hitting the target zone can be calculated from formula_1 where \"A\"(target) is the cross-section of the target area, \"dy\" is the positional uncertainty at arrival; \"a\" – constant (depending on units), \"r\"(target) is the radius of the target area; \"v\" the velocity of the probe; (tp) the targeting precision (arcsec/yr); and \"d\" the distance to the target, guided by high-resolution astrometry of 1×10 arcsec/yr (all units in SIU). These calculations show that relatively near target stars(Alpha PsA, Beta Pictoris) can be seeded by milligrams of launched microbes; while seeding the Rho Ophiochus star-forming cloud requires hundreds of kilograms of dispersed capsules.\n\nDirected panspermia to secure and expand life in space is becoming possible because of developments in solar sails, precise astrometry, extrasolar planets, extremophiles and microbial genetic engineering. After determining the composition of chosen meteorites, astroecologists performed laboratory experiments that suggest that many colonizing microorganisms and some plants could obtain many of their chemical nutrients from asteroid and cometary materials. However, the scientists noted that phosphate (PO) and nitrate (NO–N) critically limit nutrition to many terrestrial lifeforms. With such materials, and energy from long-lived stars, microscopic life planted by directed panspermia could find an immense future in the galaxy.\n\nA number of publications since 1979 have proposed the idea that directed panspermia could be demonstrated to be the origin of all life on Earth if a distinctive 'signature' message were found, deliberately implanted into either the genome or the genetic code of the first microorganisms by our hypothetical progenitor.\n\nIn 2013 a team of physicists claimed that they had found mathematical and semiotic patterns in the genetic code which they think is evidence for such a signature. This claim has been refuted by biologist PZ Myers who said, writing in Pharyngula: In a later peer-reviewed article, the authors address the operation of natural law in an extensive statistical test, and draw the same conclusion as in the previous article. In special sections they also discuss methodological concerns raised by PZ Myers and some others.\n\nPseudo-panspermia (sometimes called soft panspermia, molecular panspermia or quasi-panspermia) proposes that the organic molecules used for life originated in space and were incorporated in the solar nebula, from which the planets condensed and were further —and continuously— distributed to planetary surfaces where life then emerged (abiogenesis). From the early 1970s it was becoming evident that interstellar dust consisted of a large component of organic molecules. The first suggestion came from Chandra Wickramasinghe, who proposed a polymeric composition based on the molecule formaldehyde (CHO). Interstellar molecules are formed by chemical reactions within very sparse interstellar or circumstellar clouds of dust and gas. Usually this occurs when a molecule becomes ionized, often as the result of an interaction with cosmic rays. This positively charged molecule then draws in a nearby reactant by electrostatic attraction of the neutral molecule's electrons. Molecules can also be generated by reactions between neutral atoms and molecules, although this process is generally slower. The dust plays a critical role of shielding the molecules from the ionizing effect of ultraviolet radiation emitted by stars.\n\nA 2008 analysis of C/C isotopic ratios of organic compounds found in the Murchison meteorite indicates a non-terrestrial origin for these molecules rather than terrestrial contamination. Biologically relevant molecules identified so far include uracil, an RNA nucleobase, and xanthine. These results demonstrate that many organic compounds which are components of life on Earth were already present in the early Solar System and may have played a key role in life's origin.\n\nIn August 2009, NASA scientists identified one of the fundamental chemical building-blocks of life (the amino acid glycine) in a comet for the first time.\n\nIn August 2011, a report, based on NASA studies with meteorites found on Earth, was published suggesting building blocks of DNA (adenine, guanine and related organic molecules) may have been formed extraterrestrially in outer space. In October 2011, scientists reported that cosmic dust contains complex organic matter (\"amorphous organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure\") that could be created naturally, and rapidly, by stars. One of the scientists suggested that these complex organic compounds may have been related to the development of life on Earth and said that, \"If this is the case, life on Earth may have had an easier time getting started as these organics can serve as basic ingredients for life.\"\n\nIn August 2012, and in a world first, astronomers at Copenhagen University reported the detection of a specific sugar molecule, glycolaldehyde, in a distant star system. The molecule was found around the protostellar binary \"IRAS 16293-2422\", which is located 400 light years from Earth. Glycolaldehyde is needed to form ribonucleic acid, or RNA, which is similar in function to DNA. This finding suggests that complex organic molecules may form in stellar systems prior to the formation of planets, eventually arriving on young planets early in their formation.\n\nIn September 2012, NASA scientists reported that polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), subjected to interstellar medium (ISM) conditions, are transformed, through hydrogenation, oxygenation and hydroxylation, to more complex organics – \"a step along the path toward amino acids and nucleotides, the raw materials of proteins and DNA, respectively\". Further, as a result of these transformations, the PAHs lose their spectroscopic signature which could be one of the reasons \"for the lack of PAH detection in interstellar ice grains, particularly the outer regions of cold, dense clouds or the upper molecular layers of protoplanetary disks.\"\n\nIn 2013, the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA Project) confirmed that researchers have discovered an important pair of prebiotic molecules in the icy particles in interstellar space (ISM). The chemicals, found in a giant cloud of gas about 25,000 light-years from Earth in ISM, may be a precursor to a key component of DNA and the other may have a role in the formation of an important amino acid. Researchers found a molecule called cyanomethanimine, which produces adenine, one of the four nucleobases that form the \"rungs\" in the ladder-like structure of DNA. The other molecule, called ethanamine, is thought to play a role in forming alanine, one of the twenty amino acids in the genetic code. Previously, scientists thought such processes took place in the very tenuous gas between the stars. The new discoveries, however, suggest that the chemical formation sequences for these molecules occurred not in gas, but on the surfaces of ice grains in interstellar space. NASA ALMA scientist Anthony Remijan stated that finding these molecules in an interstellar gas cloud means that important building blocks for DNA and amino acids can 'seed' newly formed planets with the chemical precursors for life.\n\nIn March 2013, a simulation experiment indicate that dipeptides (pairs of amino acids) that can be building blocks of proteins, can be created in interstellar dust.\n\nIn February 2014, NASA announced a greatly upgraded database for tracking polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in the universe. According to scientists, more than 20% of the carbon in the universe may be associated with PAHs, possible starting materials for the formation of life. PAHs seem to have been formed shortly after the Big Bang, are widespread throughout the universe, and are associated with new stars and exoplanets.\n\nIn March 2015, NASA scientists reported that, for the first time, complex DNA and RNA organic compounds of life, including uracil, cytosine and thymine, have been formed in the laboratory under outer space conditions, using starting chemicals, such as pyrimidine, found in meteorites. Pyrimidine, like polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), the most carbon-rich chemical found in the Universe, may have been formed in red giants or in interstellar dust and gas clouds, according to the scientists.\n\nIn May 2016, the Rosetta Mission team reported the presence of glycine, methylamine and ethylamine in the coma of 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko. This, plus the detection of phosphorus, is consistent with the hypothesis that comets played a crucial role in the emergence of life on Earth.\n\nThe chemistry of life may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10–17 million years old. According to the panspermia hypothesis, microscopic life—distributed by meteoroids, asteroids and other small Solar System bodies—may exist throughout the universe. Nonetheless, Earth is the only place in the universe known by humans to harbor life. The sheer number of planets in the Milky Way galaxy, however, may make it probable that life has arisen somewhere else in the galaxy and the universe. It is generally agreed that the conditions required for the evolution of intelligent life as we know it are probably exceedingly rare in the universe, while simultaneously noting that simple single-celled microorganisms may be more likely.\n\nThe extrasolar planet results from the Kepler mission estimate 100–400 billion exoplanets, with over 3,500 as candidates or confirmed exoplanets. On 4 November 2013, astronomers reported, based on Kepler space mission data, that there could be as many as 40 billion Earth-sized planets orbiting in the habitable zones of sun-like stars and red dwarf stars within the Milky Way Galaxy. 11 billion of these estimated planets may be orbiting sun-like stars. The nearest such planet may be 12 light-years away, according to the scientists.\n\nIt is estimated that space travel over cosmic distances would take an incredibly long time to an outside observer, and with vast amounts of energy required. However, there are reasons to hypothesize that faster-than-light interstellar space travel might be feasible. This has been explored by NASA scientists since at least 1995.\n\nHoyle and Wickramasinghe have speculated that several outbreaks of illnesses on Earth are of extraterrestrial origins, including the 1918 flu pandemic, and certain outbreaks of polio and mad cow disease. For the 1918 flu pandemic they hypothesized that cometary dust brought the virus to Earth simultaneously at multiple locations—a view almost universally dismissed by experts on this pandemic. Hoyle also speculated that HIV came from outer space. After Hoyle's death, \"The Lancet\" published a letter to the editor from Wickramasinghe and two of his colleagues, in which they hypothesized that the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) could be extraterrestrial in origin and not originated from chickens. \"The Lancet\" subsequently published three responses to this letter, showing that the hypothesis was not evidence-based, and casting doubts on the quality of the experiments referenced by Wickramasinghe in his letter. A 2008 encyclopedia notes that \"Like other claims linking terrestrial disease to extraterrestrial pathogens, this proposal was rejected by the greater research community.\"\n\nIn April 2016, Jiangwen Qu of the Department of Infectious Disease Control in China presented a statistical study suggesting that \"extremes of sunspot activity to within plus or minus 1  year may precipitate influenza pandemics.\" He discussed possible mechanisms of epidemic initiation and early spread, including speculation on primary causation by externally derived viral variants from space via cometary dust.\n\n\nA separate fragment of the Orgueil meteorite (kept in a sealed glass jar since its discovery) was found in 1965 to have a seed capsule embedded in it, whilst the original glassy layer on the outside remained undisturbed. Despite great initial excitement, the seed was found to be that of a European Juncaceae or Rush plant that had been glued into the fragment and camouflaged using coal dust. The outer \"fusion layer\" was in fact glue. Whilst the perpetrator of this hoax is unknown, it is thought that they sought to influence the 19th century debate on spontaneous generation — rather than panspermia — by demonstrating the transformation of inorganic to biological matter.\n\nUntil the 1970s, life was thought to depend on its access to sunlight. Even life in the ocean depths, where sunlight cannot reach, was believed to obtain its nourishment either from consuming organic detritus rained down from the surface waters or from eating animals that did. However, in 1977, during an exploratory dive to the Galapagos Rift in the deep-sea exploration submersible \"Alvin\", scientists discovered colonies of assorted creatures clustered around undersea volcanic features known as black smokers. It was soon determined that the basis for this food chain is a form of bacterium that derives its energy from oxidation of reactive chemicals, such as hydrogen or hydrogen sulfide, that bubble up from the Earth's interior. This chemosynthesis revolutionized the study of biology by revealing that terrestrial life need not be Sun-dependent; it only requires water and an energy gradient in order to exist.\n\nIt is now known that extremophiles, microorganisms with extraordinary capability to thrive in the harshest environments on Earth, can specialize to thrive in the deep-sea, ice, boiling water, acid, the water core of nuclear reactors, salt crystals, toxic waste and in a range of other extreme habitats that were previously thought to be inhospitable for life. Living bacteria found in ice core samples retrieved from deep at Lake Vostok in Antarctica, have provided data for extrapolations to the likelihood of microorganisms surviving frozen in extraterrestrial habitats or during interplanetary transport. Also, bacteria have been discovered living within warm rock deep in the Earth's crust.\n\nIn order to test some these organisms' potential resilience in outer space, plant seeds and spores of bacteria, fungi and ferns have been exposed to the harsh space environment. Spores are produced as part of the normal life cycle of many plants, algae, fungi and some protozoans, and some bacteria produce endospores or cysts during times of stress. These structures may be highly resilient to ultraviolet and gamma radiation, desiccation, lysozyme, temperature, starvation and chemical disinfectants, while metabolically inactive. Spores germinate when favourable conditions are restored after exposure to conditions fatal to the parent organism.\n\nAlthough computer models suggest that a captured meteoroid would typically take some tens of millions of years before collision with a planet, there are documented viable Earthly bacterial spores that are 40 million years old that are very resistant to radiation, and others able to resume life after being dormant for 25 million years, suggesting that lithopanspermia life-transfers are possible via meteorites exceeding 1 m in size.\n\nThe discovery of deep-sea ecosystems, along with advancements in the fields of astrobiology, observational astronomy and discovery of large varieties of extremophiles, opened up a new avenue in astrobiology by massively expanding the number of possible extraterrestrial habitats and possible transport of hardy microbial life through vast distances.\n\nThe question of whether certain microorganisms can survive in the harsh environment of outer space has intrigued biologists since the beginning of spaceflight, and opportunities were provided to expose samples to space. The first American tests were made in 1966, during the Gemini IX and XII missions, when samples of bacteriophage T1 and spores of \"Penicillium roqueforti\" were exposed to outer space for 16.8 h and 6.5 h, respectively. Other basic life sciences research in low Earth orbit started in 1966 with the Soviet biosatellite program Bion and the U.S. Biosatellite program. Thus, the plausibility of panspermia can be evaluated by examining life forms on Earth for their capacity to survive in space. The following experiments carried on low Earth orbit specifically tested some aspects of panspermia or lithopanspermia:\n\nThe Exobiology Radiation Assembly (ERA) was a 1992 experiment on board the European Retrievable Carrier (EURECA) on the biological effects of space radiation. EURECA was an unmanned 4.5 tonne satellite with a payload of 15 experiments. It was an astrobiology mission developed by the European Space Agency (ESA). Spores of different strains of \"Bacillus subtilis\" and the \"Escherichia coli\" plasmid pUC19 were exposed to selected conditions of space (space vacuum and/or defined wavebands and intensities of solar ultraviolet radiation). After the approximately 11-month mission, their responses were studied in terms of survival, mutagenesis in the \"his\" (\"B. subtilis\") or \"lac\" locus (pUC19), induction of DNA strand breaks, efficiency of DNA repair systems, and the role of external protective agents. The data were compared with those of a simultaneously running ground control experiment:\n\nBIOPAN is a multi-user experimental facility installed on the external surface of the Russian Foton descent capsule. Experiments developed for BIOPAN are designed to investigate the effect of the space environment on biological material after exposure between 13 and 17 days. The experiments in BIOPAN are exposed to solar and cosmic radiation, the space vacuum and weightlessness, or a selection thereof. Of the 6 missions flown so far on BIOPAN between 1992 and 2007, dozens of experiments were conducted, and some analyzed the likelihood of panspermia. Some bacteria, lichens (\"Xanthoria elegans\", \"Rhizocarpon geographicum\" and their mycobiont cultures, the black Antarctic microfungi \"Cryomyces minteri\" and \"Cryomyces antarcticus\"), spores, and even one animal (tardigrades) were found to have survived the harsh outer space environment and cosmic radiation.\n\nThe German EXOSTACK experiment was deployed on 7 April 1984 on board the Long Duration Exposure Facility statellite. 30% of \"Bacillus subtilis\" spores survived the nearly 6 years exposure when embedded in salt crystals, whereas 80% survived in the presence of glucose, which stabilize the structure of the cellular macromolecules, especially during vacuum-induced dehydration.\n\nIf shielded against solar UV, spores of \"B. subtilis\" were capable of surviving in space for up to 6 years, especially if embedded in clay or meteorite powder (artificial meteorites). The data support the likelihood of interplanetary transfer of microorganisms within meteorites, the so-called lithopanspermia hypothesis.\n\nEXPOSE is a multi-user facility mounted outside the International Space Station dedicated to astrobiology experiments. There have been three EXPOSE experiments flown between 2008 and 2015: EXPOSE-E, EXPOSE-R and EXPOSE-R2. \nResults from the orbital missions, especially the experiments \"SEEDS\" and \"LiFE\", concluded that after an 18-month exposure, some seeds and lichens (\"Stichococcus sp.\" and \"Acarospora sp\"., a lichenized fungal genus) may be capable to survive interplanetary travel if sheltered inside comets or rocks from cosmic radiation and UV radiation. The \"LIFE\", \"SPORES\", and \"SEEDS\" parts of the experiments provided information about the likelihood of lithopanspermia. These studies will provide experimental data to the lithopanspermia hypothesis, and they will provide basic data to planetary protection issues.\n\nThe Tanpopo mission is an orbital astrobiology experiment by Japan that is currently investigating the possible interplanetary transfer of life, organic compounds, and possible terrestrial particles in low Earth orbit. The Tanpopo experiment is taking place at the Exposed Facility located on the exterior of Kibo module of the International Space Station. The mission will collect cosmic dusts and other particles for three years by using an ultra-low density silica gel called aerogel. The purpose is to assess the panspermia hypothesis and the possibility of natural interplanetary transport of life and its precursors. Some of these aerogels will be replaced every one or two years through 2018. Sample collection began in May 2015, and the first samples were returned to Earth in mid-2016.\n\nPanspermia is often criticized because it does not answer the question of the origin of life but merely places it on another celestial body. It was also criticized because it was thought it could not be tested experimentally.\n\nWallis and Wickramasinghe argued in 2004 that the transport of individual bacteria or clumps of bacteria, is overwhelmingly more important than lithopanspermia in terms of numbers of microbes transferred, even accounting for the death rate of unprotected bacteria in transit. Then it was found that isolated spores of \"B. subtilis\" were killed by several orders of magnitude if exposed to the full space environment for a mere few seconds. These results clearly negate the original panspermia hypothesis, which requires single spores as space travelers accelerated by the radiation pressure of the Sun, requiring many years to travel between the planets. However, if shielded against solar UV, spores of \"Bacillus subtilis\" were capable of surviving in space for up to 6 years, especially if embedded in clay or meteorite powder (artificial meteorites). The data support the likelihood of interplanetary transfer of microorganisms within meteorites, the so-called lithopanspermia hypothesis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33764563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33764563", "title": "Pretty Pet Salon", "text": "Pretty Pet Salon\n\nPretty Pet Salon is a strategy video game developed by Hong Kong studio Dream Cortex and published by Animoca The game was released on January 26, 2011 for iOS and on May 13, 2011 for Android devices. An HD version was released for the iPad in February 26, 2011, followed by an Android version on May 13, 2011. The iOS versions were taken down for a time on January 15, 2012 but since then the franchise has reappeared on Apple's App Store. Pretty Pet Salon titles on the Android Market and on the Amazon Appstore were unaffected.\n\nIn the game, players must run a pet-grooming salon by micro-managing their staff. Pets must be groomed correctly to maintain customer satisfaction and to make sure that the salon is making money.\n\nThe game is a freemium application, and it is the pioneering title in the \"Pretty Pet\" series of apps. The series has earned over 13 million downloads within its first 6 months, with 11 million belonging to \"Pretty Pet Salon\" alone.\n\nThe game is set in a virtual grooming salon presented in a fixed, third person, one-point perspective view. The player has a full view of the entire salon at all times, where service stations are affixed. Players start off with one staff by the name of Piglina. The objective of the game is to increase the salon's level.\n\nEach game day lasts for approximately 2.5 minutes during which a number of customers will automatically enter the salon with their pets. Upon entering, an icon will appear on top of each customer’s pet to indicate which service they require. The player must then drag the pet to the appropriate station, after which an exclamation mark icon will appear on top of the pet. At that point, the player must tap on the pet in order for their staff to attend to it, and only afterward will the service be completed. Each pet may require more than one service per visit.\n\nCustomers and their pets have a limited amount of patience, which serves as a time limit for each service. If pets are not served within the time limit, the owner along with their pet will leave the salon without payment.\n\nOnce all services for the pet are completed, the customer and their pet will move on to the cashier to pay. Players must then tap on the cashier in order for their staff to collect payment. For each customer that successfully completes payment, the player will gain a certain amount of \"happiness\" and in-game currency.\n\nLevels are earned by achieving a certain amount of \"happiness\" and accumulating a certain amount of in-game currency. Requirements for the next level will be displayed at the end of each game day. As the salon gains levels, the game will also increase in difficulty.\n\nAt the end of each game day, players are also given the option to upgrade or purchase more stations, and upgrade or hire more staff. Purchases can be made using premium currency called \"Pet Points\" or using the free, in-game currency earned throughout regular game play.\n\nAs of November 14, 2011, \"Pretty Pet Salon\" has received a user rating of 4.1 out of 5 stars on the Android Market based on 25,053 votes. On the iTunes US App Store, the game earned a user rating of 3 out of 5 stars for all versions of the game on the US App Store (iOS) based on 20,058 votes.\n\nOn February 11, 2011, \"Pretty Pet Salon\" reached #6 on the global Top iPhone Games chart and #11 on the global Top Apps chart, both based on number of downloads.\n"}
{"id": "1333695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1333695", "title": "Requiem for Methuselah", "text": "Requiem for Methuselah\n\n\"Requiem for Methuselah\" is a episode of the American science fiction television series \"\", first broadcast on February 14, 1969. Its repeat broadcast, on September 2, 1969, was the last official telecast of the series to air on NBC; it was replaced by \"I Dream of Jeannie\" and \"The Debbie Reynolds Show\". (\"Star Trek\" would immediately debut in syndication on the following Monday, September 8, a full three years after its debut.) It is episode No. 74, production No. 76, written by Jerome Bixby and directed by Murray Golden. It guest-stars James Daly as \"Mr. Flint\", and Louise Sorel as \"Rayna Kapec\" (\"Kapec\" is an anagram of Capek, after Karel Čapek, who introduced the term \"robot\").\n\nIn the episode, the crew of the \"Enterprise\" encounters an immortal human.\n\nThe crew of the Federation starship USS \"Enterprise\" is struck with deadly Rigellian fever, for which the only treatment is the mineral ryetalyn. They arrive at planet Holberg 917-G in search of the substance. Captain Kirk, first officer Spock and medical officer Dr. McCoy beam down and are attacked by an airborne robot, which is called off by its master, Flint. Flint orders them to leave immediately, but is finally moved by their plight.\n\nFlint gives the landing party two hours, offering the help of his sentry robot M4 to gather the mineral. Flint then escorts them to his home, which has an impressive art collection, including undiscovered paintings by Leonardo da Vinci. Spock notices that the brushwork of the paintings is identical to Leonardo's, but his tricorder indicates that they are made with contemporary materials.\n\nThe party is introduced to Flint's beautiful young ward, Rayna Kapec, whose late parents, according to Flint, were employees of his. On Flint's suggestion, Kirk plays billiards with Rayna, and they dance to a waltz played on the piano by Spock, from a manuscript apparently in the hand of Johannes Brahms, but written with contemporary ink. Shortly afterward, M4 returns with a container of ryetalyn, but it is contaminated with irilium, and therefore useless. Flint apologizes and accompanies M4 on a search for more ryetalyn.\n\nOddities begin to mount up. When Kirk kisses Rayna, M4 reacts as if he were attacking her. The \"Enterprise\" reports that no information can be found on Flint or Rayna. A tricorder scan reveals that Flint is over 6,000 years old. Finally, the processing of the new ryetalyn, supposedly being performed in Flint’s laboratory, is taking a suspiciously long time.\n\nRayna comes to say goodbye to Kirk, who has fallen in love with her and begs her to accompany him. McCoy tells them that the ryetalyn is missing, and Spock follows tricorder readings to a laboratory chamber containing android bodies, all labeled \"Rayna\".\n\nFlint finally reveals the truth. He was born 3,834 years BCE, and after falling in battle discovered he could not die. Flint has lived \"lifetimes\" as Methuselah, Alexander the Great, Leonardo da Vinci, and many others. Rayna is to be his mate, now that Kirk has taught her how to love. He intends also to keep the \"Enterprise\" crew in a suspended state, to protect his privacy, but relents on Rayna’s objection. A fight then breaks out between the two men for the possession of Rayna. Rayna stops them, claiming her right to choose her own future, and then, overwhelmed by her newfound emotions, dies.\n\nBack on the \"Enterprise\", McCoy discovers that Flint, having left Earth’s environment, is now aging normally. Kirk falls asleep on his desk wishing to forget Rayna, and Spock places a suggestion to \"forget\" into his mind.\n\nAccording to fantasy and science fiction scholar Ace G. Pilkington, \"Requiem for Methuselah\" is a \"Star Trek\" adaptation of the film \"Forbidden Planet\" (1956). Actress Anne Francis reported that Gene Roddenberry, the creator of \"Star Trek\", had talked to her about lifting some ideas from \"Forbidden Planet\". Actor Leslie Nielsen noted the similarities between \"Forbidden Planet\" and \"Star Trek\", suggesting that the film served as a pilot for the television series.\n\n\"Forbidden Planet\" was the first big-budget science fiction film to be released by a major film studio, in this case Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It differed from previous science fiction films in several ways. The setting of the film was a future era, where mankind is \"spreading out into the universe\". Humans are using faster-than-light starships in the film. The film is set in part in outer space, and in part on an alien planet. Human beings arrive on flying saucers. A notable character from the film is Robby the Robot. \"He\" is a robot programmed according to Three Laws of Robotics, as defined by Isaac Asimov.\n\nIn turn, \"Forbidden Planet\" itself was based on an earlier work, the theatrical play \"The Tempest\" (written c. 1610–1611) by William Shakespeare. \"The Tempest\" happened to be the favorite play of Irving Block, one of the story writers of \"Forbidden Planet\". He had the idea to use the play as the basis of the film's action and characters. Block co-wrote the main story of the film with Allen Adler. The screenplay was mainly written by novelist and screenwriter Cyril Hume. Hume turned the film into a meditation on the nature of technology, on human ambition and human frailty, on the destiny of civilizations, on power and on fatherhood.\n\nRuth Morse, a Shakespearean scholar, has written on the influence of \"The Tempest\" on \"Forbidden Planet\" and \"Requiem for Methuselah\". Flint, the powerful recluse, seems to be based on Prospero and Methuselah. Rayna appears to be Flint's daughter and is based on Miranda, Prospero's daughter. The twist here is that \"Rayna-Miranda\" (as Morse calls her) is an android, not Flint's daughter. Flint hopes that the female android will fall in love with him. Flint offers her knowledge and intellectual stimulation but Rayna falls for the \"irresistible\" James T. Kirk. The female android faces new and (to her) unfamiliar emotions, having to choose between two men. The pressure causes her to short-circuit into self-destruction, her version of death.\n\nMorse finds it is unusual for \"the Miranda\" in a \"Tempest\" adaptation to die but points that this version of Miranda is neither a true daughter to her Prospero, nor even human. She is a creation who came to life and was intended to be an immortal companion to Flint. She finds Rayna's story to be similar to that of Galatea from Greek mythology. Galatea was a female statue who came to life and mated with her creator Pygmalion. Morse finds the depiction of the relationship between Flint and Rayna surprisingly innocent. Flint is Rayna's creator/father and her intended mate but there is not a hint of incest or sexual abuse in this pairing.\n\nAn original point of the episode is the motivation of Flint. He is immortal and apparently unable to die. He has outlived his human attachments and it is hinted he has repeatedly outlived them in his long life. He wants a female android to be his mate, because he hopes that Rayna would also be practically immortal. His previous loves were apparently mortal women, whom he has lost to the ravages of time. He suffers from the pain of loss. Flint wants to awaken emotion in his creation but Morse observes that Flint has apparently lost his own ability to feel strong emotions.\n\nMorse observes that this is not the only \"Star Trek\" episode which refers to Shakespeare and his works. \"The Conscience of the King\" makes references to \"Hamlet\" and \"\" makes references to \"Macbeth\". Morse finds that the romance story of the episode has some similarities with a much earlier \"Tempest\" adaptation, \"The Tempest\" (1667) by William Davenant and John Dryden. She finds it likely that the \"Star Trek\" writing team was unfamiliar with this version but they apparently came up with similar ideas.\n\nThere is an allusion to a different work in \"Requiem for Methuselah\". There is a locked door in Flint's laboratory and behind it are the bodies of women, duplicates of Rayna. This alludes to Bluebeard, who kept a locked underground chamber in his castle. The chamber contained the bodies of women, the murdered corpses of his former wives.\n\nThis episode was remastered in 2006 and aired June 21, 2008 as part of the remastered \"Original Series\". It was preceded a week earlier by the remastered \"The Way to Eden\" and followed a week later by the remastered \"The Savage Curtain\". Changes made specific to this episode include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7193430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7193430", "title": "Russ Cochran", "text": "Russ Cochran\n\nRussell Earl Cochran (born October 31, 1958) is an American professional golfer who plays on the PGA Tour Champions, having previously been a member on the PGA Tour and the Nationwide Tour. He is one of the few natural left-handed players to win a PGA Tour event. For much of the 1980s through 1992, he was the only left-hander on the PGA Tour.\n\nCochran was born, raised and has lived most of his life in Paducah, Kentucky. He grew up playing on Paxton Park Public Golf Course in Paducah, as did fellow PGA Tour player Kenny Perry, who came along a couple years later. After graduating from St. Mary High School in Paducah, he attended the University of Kentucky and was a member of the golf team. He turned pro in 1979 and joined the PGA Tour in 1982.\n\nCochran has about 60 top-10 finishes in official PGA Tour events including a victory at the 1991 Centel Western Open when he made up seven shots over eight holes to beat Greg Norman. His career year was 1991, when in addition to his win at the Western Open, he had two second-place finishes—including a playoff loss to Craig Stadler at the Tour Championship – and a third and finished 10th on the money list. His best finish in a major was a tie for seventh at the 1992 PGA Championship. Cochran set the Valhalla Golf Club course record (65) in the third round of the 1996 PGA Championship which stood until broken (63) in the same tournament four years later by José María Olazábal. He played some on the Nationwide Tour in his mid-to-late 40s in preparation for the Champions Tour. His best Nationwide finish was a tie for third at the 2003 Chitimacha Louisiana Open.\n\nCochran debuted on the Champions Tour with a tie for seventh at the Allianz Championship on February 15, 2009, at Boca Raton, Florida. He finished third at the U.S. Senior Open on August 2, 2009, at Carmel, Indiana, setting the Crooked Stick Golf Club course record with a third-round score of 8-under par 64. He ended the year by winning the Rookie of the Year award. In 2010, he earned his first victory on the Champions Tour, defeating Fred Funk on the first hole of a sudden-death playoff in the Posco E&C Songdo Championship in South Korea, and followed that up with another win in the tour's next event, the SAS Championship in North Carolina.\n\nCochran won his maiden senior major championship at the 2011 Senior British Open Championship at Walton Heath. Cochran finished two strokes ahead of the third round leader Mark Calcavecchia. He shot a final round 67 which included six birdies in the first ten holes to open up a five stroke advantage. Despite a late charge by Calcavecchia, Cochran parred the last four holes and held on for a two stroke victory. Afterwards Cochran claimed having his son on the bag was a factor in his success. \"It feels great, I had my son (Reed) on the bag, I told him I was going to work hard and come away with something good and I think he was the lucky charm.\"\n\nIn June 2013, Cochran won for the fourth time on the Champions Tour at the Principal Charity Classic. He came from two shots back with a final round 67 to finish a single stroke ahead of Jay Don Blake. This ended a two-year title drought that Cochran had spent battling rib and wrist injuries. In October 2013, he won his second title of the year at the SAS Championship, where he finished with four consecutive birdies to beat David Frost by a single stroke.\n\nCochran and his wife, Jackie, have four children: three sons and a daughter. His oldest son, Ryan, played golf at the University of Florida and aspires to play professionally like his father. Russ's son Case and nephew Rick III are also professional golfers.\n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n\"Results not in chronological order before 2017.\"\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut\nWD = withdrew\n\"T\" = tied\n\n"}
{"id": "2638464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2638464", "title": "Samuel Cromwell", "text": "Samuel Cromwell\n\nSamuel Cromwell (died December 1, 1842) was a sailor and petty officer (boatswain's mate) aboard the brig USS \"Somers\". Cromwell was feared by the young apprentices who made up the majority of the ship's crew, and was rumored to have served on a slaver at one time. These rumors lent credence to the idea that he would have been amenable to Philip Spencer's alleged plot to mutiny, kill the ship's officers and such of the crew as were not wanted and sail the \"Somers\" either as a pirate ship or a slaver. \n\nOn the homeward leg of a voyage to Liberia, Cromwell was put in irons a few days after Spencer and Elisha Small, another sailor rumored to have been part of a slave ship's crew. After a meeting of the officers concluded that a mutinous plot existed, all three men were hanged without a court-martial.\n"}
{"id": "7635138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7635138", "title": "Special administrator", "text": "Special administrator\n\nA Special administrator is a court-appointed person who administrates a court-defined part of an estate during probate. A special administrator with expertise in automobiles, for example, would administrate the probate of the deceased's car collection. A special administrator can also oversee an entire estate, albeit for a limited time (in case of emergency). In this case, the special administrator's job is to maintain the estate, not take control of the probate.\n"}
{"id": "477117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477117", "title": "Species reintroduction", "text": "Species reintroduction\n\nSpecies reintroduction is the deliberate release of a species into the wild, from captivity or other areas where the organism is capable of survival. The goal of species reintroduction is to establish a healthy, genetically diverse, self-sustaining population to an area where it has been extirpated, or to augment an existing population. Species that may be eligible for reintroduction are typically threatened or endangered in the wild. However, reintroduction of a species can also be for pest control. For example, wolves being reintroduced to a wild area to curb an overpopulation of elk or deer. Because reintroduction may involve returning native species to localities where they had been extirpated, some prefer the term \"reestablishment\".\n\nHumans have been reintroducing species for food and pest control for thousands of years. However, the practice of reintroducing for conservation is much younger, starting in the 20th century.\n\nThere are a variety of approaches to species reintroduction. The optimal strategy will depend on the biology of the organism. The first matter to address when beginning a species reintroduction is whether to source individuals \"in situ\", from wild populations, or \"ex situ\", from captivity in a zoo or botanic garden, for example.\n\n\"In situ\" sourcing for restorations involves moving individuals from an existing wild population to a new site where the species was formerly extirpated. Ideally, populations should be sourced \"in situ\" when possible due to the numerous risks associated with reintroducing organisms from captive populations to the wild. To ensure that reintroduced populations have the best chance of surviving and reproducing, individuals should be sourced from populations that genetically and ecologically resemble the recipient population. Generally, sourcing from populations with similar environmental conditions to the reintroduction site will maximize the chance that reintroduced individuals are well adapted to the habitat of the reintroduction site .\n\nOne consideration for \"in situ\" sourcing is at which life stage the organisms should be collected, transported, and reintroduced. For instance, with plants, it is often ideal to transport them as seeds as they have the best chance of surviving translocation at this stage. However, some plants are difficult to establish as seed and may need to be translocated as juveniles or adults.\n\nIn situations where \"in situ\" collection of individuals is not feasible, such as for rare and endangered species with too few individuals existing in the wild, \"ex situ\" collection possible. \n\"Ex situ\" collection methods allow storage of individuals that have high potential for reintroduction. Storage examples include germplasm stored in seed banks, sperm and egg banks, cryopreservation, and tissue culture. Methods that allow for storage of a high numbers of individuals also aim to maximize genetic diversity. Stored materials generally have long lifespans in storage, but some species do lose viability when stored as seed. Tissue culture and cryopreservation techniques have only been perfected for a few species.\nOrganisms may also be kept in living collections in captivity. Living collections are more costly than storing germplasm and hence can support only a fraction of the individuals that \"ex situ\" sourcing can. Risk increases when sourcing individuals to add to living collections. Loss of genetic diversity is a concern because fewer individuals stored. Individuals may also become genetically adapted to captivity, which often adversely affects the reproductive fitness of individuals. Adaptation to captivity may make individuals less suitable for reintroduction to the wild. Thus, efforts should be made to replicate wild conditions and minimize time spent in captivity whenever possible.\n\nReintroduction biology is a relatively young discipline and continues to be a work in progress. No strict and accepted definition of reintroduction success exists, but it has been proposed that the criteria widely used to assess the conservation status of endangered taxa, such as the IUCN Red List criteria, should be used to assess reintroduction success. Successful reintroduction programs should yield viable and self-sustainable populations in the long-term. The IUCN/SSC Re-introduction Specialist Group & Environment Agency, in their 2011 Global Re-introduction Perspectives, compiled reintroduction case studies from around the world. 184 case studies were reported on a range of species which included invertebrates, fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals, and plants. Assessments from all of the studies included goals, success indicators, project summary, major difficulties faced, major lessons learned, and success of project with reasons for success or failure. A similar assessment focused solely on plants found high rates of success for rare species reintroductions. An analysis of data from the Center for Plant Conservation International Reintroduction Registry found that, for the 49 cases where data were available, 92% of the reintroduced plant populations survived two years.\nThe Siberian tiger population has rebounded from 40 individuals in the 1940s to around 500 in 2007. The Siberian tiger population is now the largest un-fragmented tiger population in the world. Yet, a high proportion of translocations and reintroductions have not been successful in establishing viable populations\nFor instance, in China reintroduction of captive Giant Pandas have had mixed effects. The initial pandas released from captivity all died quickly after reintroduction. Even now that they have improved their ability to reintroduce pandas, concern remains over how well they captive bred pandas will fare with their wild relatives.\n\nMany factors can attribute to the success or failure of a reintroduction. Predators, food, pathogens, competitors, and weather can all affect a reintroduced population's ability to grow, survive, and reproduce.The number of animals reintroduced in an attempt should also vary with factors such as social behavior, expected rates of predation, and density in the wild. Animals raised in captivity may experience stress during captivity or translocation, which can weaken their immune systems.\nThe IUCN reintroduction guidelines emphasize the need for an assessment of the availability of suitable habitat as a key component of reintroduction planning. Poor assessment of the release site can increase the chances that the species will reject the site and perhaps move to a less suitable environment. This can decrease the species fitness and thus decrease chances for survival. They state that restoration of the original habitat and amelioration of causes of extinction must be explored and considered as essential conditions for these projects. Unfortunately, the monitoring period that should follow reintroductions often remains neglected.\n\nWhen a species has been extirpated from a site where it previously existed, individuals that will comprise the reintroduced population must be sourced from wild or captive populations. When sourcing individuals for reintroduction, it is important to consider local adaptation, adaptation to captivity (for \"ex situ\" conservation), the possibility of inbreeding depression and outbreeding depression, and taxonomy, ecology, and genetic diversity of the source population. Reintroduced populations experience increased vulnerability to influences of drift, selection, and gene flow evolutionary processes due to their small sizes, climatic and ecological differences between source and native habitats, and presence of other mating-compatible populations.\n\nIf the species slated for reintroduction is rare in the wild, it is likely to have unusually low population numbers, and care should be taken to avoid inbreeding and inbreeding depression. Inbreeding can change the frequency of allele distribution in a population, and potentially result in a change to crucial genetic diversity. Additionally, outbreeding depression can occur if a reintroduced population can hybridize with existing populations in the wild, which can result in offspring with reduced fitness, and less adaptation to local conditions. To minimize both, practitioners should source for individuals in a way that captures as much genetic diversity as possible, and attempt to match source site conditions to local site conditions as much as possible.\n\nCapturing as much genetic diversity as possible, measured as heterozygosity, is suggested in species reintroductions. Some protocols suggest sourcing approximately 30 individuals from a population will capture 95% of the genetic diversity. Maintaining genetic diversity in the recipient population is crucial to avoiding the loss of essential local adaptations, minimizing inbreeding depression, and maximizing fitness of the reintroduced population.\n\nPlants or animals that undergo reintroduction may exhibit reduced fitness if they are not sufficiently adapted to local environmental conditions. Therefore, researchers should consider ecological and environmental similarity of source and recipient sites when selecting populations for reintroduction. Environmental factors to consider include climate and soil traits (pH, percent clay, silt and sand, percent combustion carbon, percent combustion nitrogen, concentration of Ca, Na, Mg, P, K). Historically, sourcing plant material for reintroductions has followed the rule \"local is best,\" as the best way to preserve local adaptations, with individuals for reintroductions selected from the most geographically proximate population. However, geographic distance was shown in a common garden experiment to be an insufficient predictor of fitness. Additionally, projected climatic shifts induced by climate change have led to the development of new seed sourcing protocols that aim to source seeds that are best adapted to project climate conditions. Conservation agencies have developed seed transfer zones that serve as guidelines for how far plant material can be transported before it will perform poorly. Seed transfer zones take into account proximity, ecological conditions, and climatic conditions in order to predict how plant performance will vary from one zone to the next. A study of the reintroduction of \"Castilleja levisecta\" found that the source populations most physically near the reintroduction site performed the poorest in a field experiment, while those from the source population whose ecological conditions most closely matched the reintroduction site performed best, demonstrating the importance of matching the evolved adaptations of a population to the conditions at the reintroduction site.\n\nSome reintroduction programs use plants or animals from captive populations to form a reintroduced population. When reintroducing individuals from a captive population to the wild, there is a risk that they have adapted to captivity due to differential selection of genotypes in captivity versus the wild. \nThe genetic basis of this adaptation is selection of rare, recessive alleles that are deleterious in the wild but preferred in captivity. Consequently, animals adapted to captivity show reduced stress tolerance, increased tameness, and loss of local adaptations. Plants also can show adaptations to captivity through changes in drought tolerance, nutrient requirements, and seed dormancy requirements. Extent of adaptation is directly related to intensity of selection, genetic diversity, effective population size and number of generations in captivity. \nCharacteristics selected for in captivity are overwhelmingly disadvantageous in the wild, so such adaptations can lead to reduced fitness following reintroduction. \nReintroduction projects that introduce wild animals generally experience higher success rates than those that use captive-bred animals. Genetic adaptation to captivity can be minimized through management methods: by maximizing generation length and number of new individuals added to the captive population; minimizing effective population size, number of generations spent in captivity, and selection pressure; and reducing genetic diversity by fragmenting the population. For plants, minimizing adaptation to captivity is usually achieved by sourcing plant material from a seed bank, where individuals are preserved as wild-collected seeds, and have not had the chance to adapt to conditions in captivity. However, this method is only plausible for plants with seed dormancy.\n\nIn reintroductions from captivity, translocation of animals from captivity to the wild has implications for both captive and wild populations. Reintroduction of genetically valuable animals from captivity improves genetic diversity of reintroduced populations while depleting captive populations; conversely, genetically valuable captive-bred animals may be closely related to individuals in the wild and thus increase risk of inbreeding depression if reintroduced. \nIncreasing genetic diversity is favored with removal of genetically overrepresented individuals from captive populations and addition of animals with low genetic relatedness to the wild. However in practice, initial reintroduction of individuals with low genetic value to the captive population is recommended to allow for genetic assessment before translocation of valuable individuals.\n\nA cooperative approach to reintroduction by ecologists and biologists could improve research techniques. For both preparation and monitoring of reintroductions, increasing contacts between academic population biologists and wildlife managers is encouraged within the Survival Species Commission and the IUCN. The IUCN states that a re-introduction requires a multidisciplinary approach involving a team of persons drawn from a variety of backgrounds. A survey by Wolf et al. in 1998 indicated that 64% of reintroduction projects have used subjective opinion to assess habitat quality. This means that most reintroduction evaluation has been based on human anecdotal evidence and not enough has been based on statistical findings. Seddon et al. (2007) suggest that researchers contemplating future reintroductions should specify goals, overall ecological purpose, and inherent technical and biological limitations of a given reintroduction, and planning and evaluation processes should incorporate both experimental and modeling approaches.\n\nMonitoring the health of individuals, as well as the survival, is important; both before and after the reintroduction. Intervention may be necessary if the situation proves unfavorable. Population dynamics models that integrate demographic parameters and behavioral data recorded in the field can lead to simulations and tests of a priori hypotheses. Using previous results to design further decisions and experiments is a central concept of adaptive management. In other words, learning by doing can help in future projects. Population ecologists should therefore collaborate with biologists, ecologists, and wildlife management to improve reintroduction programs.\n\nFor reintroduced populations to successfully establish and maximize reproductive fitness, practitioners should perform genetic tests to select which individuals will be the founders of reintroduced populations and to continue monitoring populations post-reintroduction. A number of methods are available to measure the genetic relatedness between and variation among individuals within populations. Common genetic diversity assessment tools include microsatellite markers, mitochondrial DNA analyses, alloenzymes, and amplified fragment length polymorphism markers. Post-reintroduction, genetic monitoring tools can be used to obtain data such as population abundance, effective population size, and population structure, and can also be used to identify instances of inbreeding within reintroduced populations or hybridization with existing populations that are genetically compatible. Long-term genetic monitoring is recommended post-reintroduction to track changes in genetic diversity of the reintroduced population and determine success of a reintroduction program. \nAdverse genetic changes such as loss of heterozygosity may indicate management intervention, such as population supplementation, is necessary for survival of the reintroduced population.\n\nThe RSG is a network of specialists whose aim is to combat the ongoing and massive loss of biodiversity by using re-introductions as a responsible tool for the management and restoration of biodiversity. It does this by actively developing and promoting sound inter-disciplinary scientific information, policy, and practice to establish viable wild populations in their natural habitats.\nThe role of the RSG is to promote the re-establishment of viable populations in the wild of animals and plants. The need for this role was felt due to the increased demand from re-introduction practitioners, the global conservation community and increase in re-introduction projects worldwide.\n\nIncreasing numbers of animal and plant species are becoming rare, or even extinct in the wild. In an attempt to re-establish populations, species can – in some instances – be re-introduced into an area, either through translocation from existing wild populations, or by re-introducing captive-bred animals or artificially propagated plants.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24130492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24130492", "title": "Suicide bag", "text": "Suicide bag\n\nA suicide bag, also known as an exit bag or hood, is a euthanasia device consisting of a large plastic bag with a drawcord used to commit suicide through inert gas asphyxiation. It is usually used in conjunction with a flow of an inert gas like helium or nitrogen, which prevents the panic, sense of suffocation and struggling before unconsciousness, known as the hypercapnic alarm response caused by the presence of high carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood. This method also makes the direct cause of death difficult to trace if the bag and gas canister are removed before the death is reported.\n\nSuicide bags were first used during the 1990s. The method was mainly developed in North America.\n\nSelf-administered and assisted suicides by asphyxiation using a plastic bag with helium were first recorded in the 1990s. Since the 2000s, guides have spread on the internet, in print and on video and the frequency of suicides by this method has increased.\n\nThe suicide bag with inert gas method was originally developed by John Hofsess and the NuTech group, which consisted of Hofsess, Derek Humphry, engineers and physicians.\n\nIn the book \"Final Exit\" by Derek Humphry, a suicide bag was described as a large plastic bag with an adjustable velcro strip around the neck. Its use with inert gases was mentioned in the \"Supplement to Final Exit\" in 2000.\n\nThe pro-euthanasia group Exit Australia distributed a manufactured version of the bag in Australia in 2002, alarming government officials and pro-life groups. The Australian chapter of Right to Life expressed concern that they would be used by vulnerable people.\n\nIn 2007, \"The Vancouver Sun\" cited Russel Ogden, Canadian criminologist and right-to-die advocate, who said that the combination of a suicide bag and helium was \"a method of choice\" within the right-to-die movement for people who are terminally ill and that its promotion does not appear to cause an increase in the number of suicides. However, he said that he has no way of knowing if the method was being used by people with terminal illness or by people who are mentally ill.\n\nIn 2008, Ludwig Minelli, founder of Dignitas, filmed four people committing suicide by helium inhalation. Subsequent to this, the method \"has been winning supporters both in the USA and in Europe as a reliable, rapid and painless way to die\".\n\nIn 2009, Philip Nitschke, founder of voluntary euthanasia organisation Exit International, wrote in a member newsletter that nitrogen has a lower risk of an adverse reaction by the body than helium and is also more available than helium in Australia and New Zealand. Nitschke's organisation sells suicide kits that contain nitrogen tanks and regulators. He promotes the use of nitrogen and suicide bags with lectures and films, such as \"Doing it with Betty\" – in which an elderly woman describes how to make a plastic 'exit' bag, and with published materials such as workshop handbooks. Nitschke calls the suicide bag death a \"hypoxic death\", and likens it to pneumonia, the \"old person's friend\", where hypoxia occurs because pneumonic inflammation stops the lungs extracting sufficient oxygen from the air, and \"a peaceful death often results\".\n\nIn 2015 author and right-to-die advocate Derek Humphry reported that Worthington Industries, the world's largest manufacturer of disposable helium cylinders, had announced that their helium cylinders will guarantee only 80% helium, with up to 20% air, making them inappropriate for use with a suicide bag in Humphry's opinion.\n\nDutch psychiatrist Boudewijn Chabot, in his 2015 book \"Dignified Dying\", calls the suicide bag with inert gas method \"rapid, painless and safe\".\n\nIt is not illegal to own a suicide bag in any jurisdiction.\n\nSelling suicide bags is prohibited in some places. In 2011, the FBI raided a small mail-order business in California, which shut down afterwards. In July 2011, this raid caused Oregon to be the first US state to pass legislation prohibiting the sale of kits containing suicide bags or hoods.\n\nCanadian right-to-die advocates stopped shipping suicide bags to Australia in 2001, when the Australian government announced that it would review their importation. In 2002, the Queensland Police in Australia said that suicide bags did not violate any laws at that time, and the Australian federal government said it would look into banning them. Exit Australia gave them away to members upon request; they put warning labels on them, called them \"exit bags\", and included no instructions for use to circumvent Australian laws against assisting suicide.\n\nA hypoxic, carbon dioxide free metabolically inert gas is provided for inhalation by confining the gas supply and the head in an impermeable bag which prevents contamination with oxygen from the surrounding air, minimising the amount of gas required. (The same effect could be reached by flooding any enclosed space with the gas, but much more gas would be needed, and this would be hazardous to a third party entering the space, an effect which is well known as a cause of industrial fatalities.)\n\nInhalation of oxygen deficient or oxygen free gas not only fails to replenish oxygen used in normal metabolism, but causes the blood passing through the capillaries of the gas exchange regions of the lungs to lose residual oxygen in relation to the concentration difference between the oxygen in the alveolar air and in the blood in the alveolar capillaries. This causes a far quicker drop in blood oxygen level than holding the breath. The deoxygenated blood then passes through the systemic circulation to the vital organs, including the brain, and rapidly lowers oxygen concentrations below the level required to sustain consciousness, and when it is insufficient to keep the heart functioning, cardiac arrest will occur. For the most people, an alveolar oxygen tension of less than or 4% by volume at atmospheric pressure is not sufficient to support consciousness.\n\nThe urge to breathe in normal humans is mainly controlled by blood carbon dioxide concentration and the acidity that it causes. A rise in carbon dioxide concentration caused by the inability to inhale fresh gas will cause a strong reflex to breathe, accompanied by increasing distress as the level rises, culminating in panic and desperate struggle for air. This effect will remain if the person is free to breathe but the available air has a high carbon dioxide content. If the supplied breathing gas is free of carbon dioxide, the blood carbon dioxide levels will remain low while breathing occurs, and there will be no distress or urge to increase breathing rate, as the sensitivity in normal people to blood oxygen level as a breathing stimulus is very low. \nThe effect of contamination of the inert gas by air or other source of oxygen is to reduce the effects of oxygen loss and the person exposed may feel weak, tired and confused, but without a strong urge to breathe or the associated respiratory distress. The efficiency of the system for euthanasia requires minimising contamination by oxygen and carbon dioxide. Small amounts of oxygen will not affect the end result, but may extend the time taken.\n\nHelium and nitrogen are non toxic and can be breathed with no ill effects over short or long term when oxygen levels are sufficient, and present no health risk to third parties except asphyxiation. The danger lies in that they are undetectable by human senses, and the first warning of their presence in asphyxiant concentrations may be loss of consciousness. Lower concentrations may cause confusion and weakness. Use of a suicide bag in a well ventilated room using either of these gases is unlikely to pose a hazard for other people, and there is no fire hazard. \n\nPropane, butane and natural gas are to varying degrees narcotic, and are a serious fire and explosion hazard, depending on concentration of the gas and of oxygen. They are usually supplied with strong-smelling additives to provide a warning. These additives may be toxic in large doses, but the concentrations which are needed to indicate the presence of the gas are not dangerous over short terms. The unpleasant smell may be a deterrent to more widespread use as a euthanasia agent, but the primary purpose is a warning of fire hazard.\n\nPropane has low toxicity since it is not readily absorbed and is not biologically active. It is heavier than air and may accumulate in low places, particularly if they are poorly ventilated. Butane is similar to propane, and heavier, and has narcotic effects in large doses. Natural gas is lighter than air and disperses quickly in a well ventilated area.\n\nSuicides using bags or masks and gases are well documented in the literature.\n\nSuicide bags have been used with gases other than inert gases, with varying outcomes. Examples of other gases used are propane-butane, which has narcotic effects, and is commonly adulterated with strong smelling additives to warn of gas leaks, and natural gas.\n\nSuicides using a suicide bag and an inert gas produce no characteristic post-mortem macroscopic or microscopic findings. Forensic death investigations of cause and manner of death may be very difficult when people commit suicide in this manner, especially if the apparatus (such as the bag, tank, or tube) is removed by someone after the death. Petechiae, which are often considered a marker of asphyxia, are present in only a small minority of cases (3%). Frost reported that of the two cases he studied that featured death from inert gas asphyxiation using a suicide bag, one had \"bilateral eyelid petechiae and large amounts of gastric content in the airways and that these findings challenge the assumption that death by this method is painless and without air hunger, as asserted in \"Final Exit\".\" A review study by Ely and Hirsch (2000) concludes that conjunctival and facial petechiae are the product of purely mechanical vascular phenomena, unrelated to asphyxia or hypoxia, and do not occur unless ligatures were also found around the neck. The authors wrote,\n\nThere are also documented cases of suicide attempts using the suicide bag that failed. A case report study in 2015 discussed the risks associated with failed attempts using this method. The authors wrote, \"If the process is interrupted by someone, there is no gas or the tube slips out of the bag, there is a high risk of severe hypoxia of the central nervous system\" (in survivors).\nBrain cells are very sensitive to reduced oxygen levels. Once deprived of oxygen they will begin to die off within five minutes.\nIf hypoxia results in coma, the length of unconsciousness is often indicative of long-term damage. In some cases coma can give the brain an opportunity to heal and regenerate, but, in general, the longer a coma, the greater the likelihood that the person will remain in a vegetative state until death.\n\nRussel Ogden (2002) said that the existence of \"how-to\" literature involving the suicide bag has been \"shown to influence the choice of suicide method but not the overall suicide rate, and that an emerging counterculture of death providers, operating outside of the traditional medicolegal framework of health care, was placing assisted death outside the normative gaze of medicine\". In 2010, Ogden and colleagues observed four cases of assisted suicide with helium delivered by face mask. The authors stated that a hood method might be able to play a role in \"demedicalising assisted suicide\". Ogden views a bag and inert gas as \"the quickest way to go; used properly, you're unconscious after the second breath and dead in about 10 minutes\".\n\nClinical psychologist Phillip Kleespies said that Ogden's work calls attention to some of the risks associated with covert assisted suicide using unregulated methods like the suicide bag with inert gas. He does not dispute that the method is \"swift, highly lethal and painless\", as claimed by Ogden and other right-to-die proponents. However Kleespies feels it is an undignified, impersonal and \"hurried\" manner of death, which may be used by people who have not had the opportunity for appropriate counseling and that this is largely a result of more dignified methods being made illegal. He concludes by expressing the hope that with improved and more appropriate care during the dying phase of life, there will be less perceived need for these methods of self-deliverance.\n\nA study poses the dilemma for medical ethicists and the general public who \"may also want to carefully weigh the unintended adverse consequences of widely disseminated suicide methods likely to appeal to some depressed persons (irrespective of their physical health status or age) against the putative benefits associated with making these methods more widely known and available\".\n\nPromoters of this suicide method recommend it to terminally ill patients. However, across the world, most people who use suicide bags are physically healthy. Instead of having incurable cancer or other life-threatening physical diseases, most of the users have psychiatric disorders or substance abuse problems that might possibly be addressed through medical and psychological treatment. The demographics of its users varies; in one survey, the method had been used mostly by middle-aged adults in failing health, who were attracted to the relative nonviolence of the method.\n\nThis suicide method is also typically used by younger or middle-aged adults, rather than by older adults. In the US, it is more commonly chosen by non-Hispanic white males than by women or people of other races.\n\n"}
{"id": "51078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51078", "title": "Thalidomide", "text": "Thalidomide\n\nThalidomide, sold under the brand name Immunoprin, among others, is an immunomodulatory drug and the prototype of the thalidomide class of drugs. Today, thalidomide is used mainly as a treatment of certain cancers (multiple myeloma) and of a complication of leprosy.\nThalidomide was first marketed in 1957 in West Germany under the trade name Contergan. The German drug company Chemie Grünenthal developed and sold the drug. Primarily prescribed as a sedative or hypnotic, thalidomide also claimed to cure \"anxiety, insomnia, gastritis, and tension\". Afterwards, it was used against nausea and to alleviate morning sickness in pregnant women. Thalidomide became an over-the-counter drug in West Germany on October 1, 1957. Shortly after the drug was sold in West Germany, between 5,000 and 7,000 infants were born with phocomelia (malformation of the limbs). Only 40% of these children survived. Throughout the world, about 10,000 cases were reported of infants with phocomelia due to thalidomide; only 50% of the 10,000 survived. Those subjected to thalidomide while in the womb experienced limb deficiencies in a way that the long limbs either were not developed or presented themselves as stumps. Other effects included deformed eyes and hearts, deformed alimentary and urinary tracts, blindness and deafness. The negative effects of thalidomide led to the development of more structured drug regulations and control over drug use and development.\nThalidomide is used as a first-line treatment in multiple myeloma in combination with dexamethasone or with melphalan and prednisone, to treat acute episodes of erythema nodosum leprosum, and for maintenance therapy.\n\nThalidomide is used off-label in several ways.\n\nThe bacterium that causes tuberculosis is related to leprosy. Thalidomide may be helpful in some cases where standard TB drugs and corticosteroids are not sufficient to resolve severe inflammation in the brain.\n\nIt is used as a second-line treatment to manage graft versus host disease and aphthous stomatitis in children and has been prescribed for other conditions in children including actinic prurigo and epidermolysis bullosa; the evidence for these uses is weak. It is recommended only as a third line treatment in graft versus host disease in adults, based on lack of efficacy and side effects observed in clinical trials.\n\nThalidomide should not be used by people who are breast feeding or pregnant, trying to conceive a child, or cannot or will not follow the risk management program to prevent pregnancies. The prescribing doctor is required to ensure that contraception is being used, and regular pregnancy tests must be administered. Some people are allergic to thalidomide and should not take it. It should be used with caution in people with chronic infections like HIV or hepatitis B.\n\nThalidomide causes birth defects. The FDA and other regulatory agencies have approved marketing of the drug only with an auditable risk evaluation and mitigation strategy that ensures that people using the drug are aware of the risks and avoid pregnancy; this applies to men and women both, as the drug can be transmitted in sperm.\n\nThere is a high risk that thalidomide can cause excessive blood clots. There is also a high risk that thalidomide can interfere with formation of various kinds of new blood cells, creating a risk of infection via neutropenia, leukopenia, and lymphopenia, and risks that blood will not clot via thrombocytopenia. There is also a risk of anemia via lack of red blood cells. The drug can also damage nerves, causing peripheral neuropathy that may be irreversible.\n\nThalidomide has several cardiovascular adverse effects, including risk of heart attacks, pulmonary hypertension, and changes in heart rhythm including syncope, bradycardia and atrioventricular block.\n\nIt can cause liver damage and severe skin reactions like Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. It tends to make people sleepy, which creates risk for driving and operating other machinery. As it kills cancer cells, it can cause tumor lysis syndrome. Thalidomide can prevent menstruation.\n\nOther than the above, very common (reported in more than 10% of people) adverse effects include tremor, dizziness, tingling, numbness, constipation, and peripheral edema.\n\nCommon (reported by 1-10% of people) adverse effects include confusion, depressed mood, reduced coordination, heart failure, difficulty breathing, interstitial lung disease, lung inflammation, vomiting, dry mouth, rashes, dry skin, fever, weakness, and a sense of unwellness.\n\nThere are no expected pharmacokinetic interactions between thalidomide and other medicines due to its neutral effects on p-glycoprotein and P450 cytochromes. It may interact with sedatives due to its sedative action. It may also interact with bradycardic agents due to its bradycardia-inducing effects. The risk of peripheral neuropathy may be increased by concomitant treatment with other agents known to cause peripheral neuropathy. The risk of venous thromboembolisms with thalidomide seems to be increased when patients are treated with oral contraceptives or other cytotoxic agents (including doxorubicin and melphalan) concurrently. Thalidomide may interfere with the contraceptive effects of various contraceptives and hence it is advised that women of reproductive age use at least two different means of contraception to ensure that no child will be conceived while they are receiving thalidomide.\n\nAs of 2013 eighteen cases of overdoses had been reported with doses of up to 14.4 g, none of them fatal. No specific antidote for overdoses exists and treatment is purely supportive.\n\nThe precise mechanism of action for thalidomide is unknown although efforts to identify thalidomide's teratogenic action generated 2000 research papers and the proposal of 15 or 16 plausible mechanisms by 2000. As of 2015 the main theories were inhibition of the process of angiogenesis, its inhibition of cereblon, a ubiquitin ligase, and its ability to generate reactive oxygen species which in turn kill cells. In 2018, results were first published which suggested that thalidomide's teratogenic effects are mediated through degradation of the transcription factor, SALL4, an as yet unverified finding.\n\nThalidomide also binds to and acts as an antagonist of the androgen receptor (AR) and hence is a nonsteroidal antiandrogen (NSAA) of some capacity. In accordance, it can produce gynecomastia and sexual dysfunction as side effects in men.\n\nThalidomide is provided as a racemic mixture of two enantiomers; while there are reports that only one of the enantiomers may cause birth defects, the body converts each enantiomer into the other through mechanisms that are not well understood.\n\nThalidomide is racemic; while the S-thalidomide is the bioactive form of the molecule, the individual enantiomers can racemize to each other due to the acidic hydrogen at the chiral centre, which is the carbon of the glutarimide ring bonded to the phthalimide substituent. The racemization process can occur \"in vivo\".\n\nCelgene Corporation originally synthesized thalidomide using a three-step sequence starting with L-glutamic acid treatment, but this has since been reformed by the use of L-glutamine. As shown in the image below, N-carbethoxyphtalimide (1) can react with L-glutamine to yield N-Phthaloyl-L-glutamine (2). Cyclization of N-Phthaloyl-L-glutamine occurs using carbonyldiimidazole, which then yields thalidomide (3). Celgene Corporation's original method resulted in a 31% yield of S-thalidomide, whereas the two-step synthesis yields 85-93% product that is 99% pure.\n\nThalidomide was discovered by scientists at the German pharmaceutical company Chemie Grünenthal (now Grünenthal GmbH) around 1953. The company had been set up as a soap maker just after WWII ended, to address the urgent market need for antibiotics. Heinrich Mueckter was appointed to head the discovery program based on his experience working with the German army's antiviral research program. In the course of preparing reagents for the work, Mueckter's assistant Wilhelm Kunz isolated a by-product, that was in turn recognized by pharmacologist Herbert Keller as an analog of glutethimide, a sedative, and the medicinal chemistry work turned to improving the lead compound into a suitable drug; the result was thalidomide. The toxicity was examined in several animals, and the drug was introduced in 1956 as a sedative.\n\nResearchers at Chemie Grünenthal also found that thalidomide was a particularly effective antiemetic that had an inhibitory effect on morning sickness. Hence, on October 1, 1957, the company launched thalidomide and began marketing it under the trade name Contergan. It was proclaimed a \"wonder drug\" for insomnia, coughs, colds and headaches.\n\nDuring this time period, the use of medications during pregnancy was not strictly controlled, and drugs were not thoroughly tested for potential harm to the fetus. Thousands of pregnant women took the drug to relieve their symptoms. At the time of the drug's development, scientists did not believe any drug taken by a pregnant woman could pass across the placental barrier and harm the developing fetus, even though the effect of alcohol on fetal development had been documented by case studies on alcoholic mothers since at least 1957. There soon appeared reports of findings of abnormalities in children being born, traced back to the use of the drug thalidomide. In late 1959, it was noticed that peripheral neuritis developed in patients who took the drug over a period of time, and it was only after this point that thalidomide ceased to be provided over the counter.\n\nHence, while initially considered safe, the drug was responsible for teratogenic deformities in children born after their mothers used it during pregnancies, prior to the third trimester. In November 1961, thalidomide was taken off the market due to massive pressure from the press and public. Experts estimate that the drug thalidomide led to the death of approximately 2,000 children and serious birth defects in more than 10,000 children, about 5,000 of them in West Germany. The regulatory authorities in East Germany did not approve thalidomide. One reason for the initially unobserved side effects of the drug and the subsequent approval in West Germany was that at that time drugs did not have to be tested for teratogenic effects. They had been tested on rodents only, as was usual at the time.\n\nIn the UK, the British pharmaceutical company The Distillers Company (Biochemicals) Ltd, a subsidiary of Distillers Co. Ltd (now part of Diageo plc), marketed thalidomide under the brand name Distaval as a remedy for morning sickness throughout the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand. Their advertisement claimed that \"Distaval can be given with complete safety to pregnant women and nursing mothers without adverse effect on mother or child...Outstandingly safe Distaval has been prescribed for nearly three years in this country.\" Around the world, more and more pharmaceutical companies started to produce and market the drug under license from Chemie Grünenthal. By the mid-1950s, 14 pharmaceutical companies were marketing thalidomide in 46 countries under at least 37 different trade names.\n\nIn the U.S., representatives from \"Chemie Grünenthal\" approached \"Smith, Kline & French\" (SKF), now GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) with a request to market and distribute the drug in North America. A memorandum rediscovered in 2010 in the archives of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) shows that, as part of its in-licensing approach, \"Smith, Kline and French\" conducted animal tests and ran a clinical trial of the drug in the United States involving 875 people, including pregnant women, in 1956–57. In 1956, researchers at SKF involved in clinical trials noted that even when used in very high doses, thalidomide could not induce sleep in mice. And when administered at doses 50 to 650 times larger than that claimed by \"Chemie Grünenthal\" to be \"sleep inducing\", the researchers could still not achieve the hypnotic effect in animals that it had on humans. After completion of the trial, and based on reasons kept hidden for decades, SKF declined to commercialize the drug. Later, \"Chemie Grünenthal\", in 1958, reached an agreement with \"William S Merrell Company\" in Cincinnati, Ohio, (later Richardson-Merrell, now part of Sanofi), to market and distribute thalidomide throughout the United States.\n\nThe U.S. FDA refused to approve thalidomide for marketing and distribution. However, the drug was distributed in large quantities for testing purposes, after the American distributor and manufacturer Richardson-Merrell had applied for its approval in September 1960. The official in charge of the FDA review, Frances Oldham Kelsey, did not rely on information from the company, which did not include any test results. Richardson-Merrell was called on to perform tests and report the results. The company demanded approval six times, and was refused each time. Nevertheless, a total of 17 children with thalidomide-induced malformations were born in the U.S.\n\nIn Canada, the history of the drug thalidomide dates back to April 1, 1961. There were many different forms sold, with the most common variant being Talimol. Two months after Talimol went on sale, pharmaceutical companies sent physicians letters warning about the risk of birth defects. It was not until March 2, 1962, that both drugs were banned from the Canadian market by the FDD, and soon afterward physicians were warned to destroy their supplies.\n\nIn 1964, Israeli physician Jacob Sheskin administered thalidomide to a patient critically ill with leprosy. The patient exhibited erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL), a painful skin condition, one of the complications of leprosy. This was attempted despite the ban on thalidomide's use, but results were favourable: the patient slept for hours and was able to get out of bed without aid upon awakening. A clinical trial studying the use of thalidomide in leprosy soon followed.\n\nThalidomide has been used by Brazilian physicians as the drug of choice for the treatment of severe ENL since 1965, and by 1996, at least 33 cases of thalidomide embryopathy were recorded in people born in Brazil after 1965. Since 1994, the production, dispensing, and prescription of thalidomide have been strictly controlled, requiring women to use two forms of birth control and submit to regular pregnancy tests. Despite this, cases of thalidomide embryopathy continue, with at least 100 cases identified in Brazil between 2005 and 2010. 5.8 million thalidomide pills were distributed throughout Brazil in this time period, largely to poor Brazilians in areas with poor access to healthcare, and these cases have occurred despite the controls.\n\nIn 1998 the FDA approved the drug's use in the treatment of ENL. Because of thalidomide's potential for causing birth defects, the drug may be distributed only under tightly controlled conditions. The FDA required that Celgene Corporation, which planned to market thalidomide under the brand name \"Thalomid\", establish a system for thalidomide education and prescribing safety (STEPS) oversight program. The conditions required under the program include limiting prescription and dispensing rights to authorized prescribers and pharmacies only, keeping a registry of all patients prescribed thalidomide, providing extensive patient education about the risks associated with the drug, and providing periodic pregnancy tests for women who take the drug.\n\nIn 2010, the World Health Organization (WHO) stated that it did not recommend thalidomide due the difficulty of adequately controlling its use, and due to the availability of clofazimine.\n\nShortly after the teratogenic properties of thalidomide were recognized in the mid-1960s, its anti-cancer potential was explored and two clinical trials were conducted in people with advanced cancer, including some people with multiple myeloma; the trials were inconclusive.\n\nLittle further work was done with thalidomide in cancer until the 1990s.\n\nJudah Folkman pioneered studies into the role of angiogenesis (the proliferation and growth of blood vessels) in the development of cancer, and in the early 1970s had shown that solid tumors could not expand without it. In 1993 he surprised the scientific world by hypothesizing the same was true of blood cancers, and the next year he published work showing that a biomarker of angiogenesis was higher in all people with cancer, but especially high in people with blood cancers, and other evidence emerged as well. Meanwhile, a member of his lab, Robert D'Amato, was looking for angiogenesis inhibitors, and discovered in 1994 that thalidomide inhibited angiogenesis. Around that time, the wife of a man who was dying of multiple myeloma and whom standard treatments had failed, called Folkman asking him about his anti-angiogenesis ideas. Folkman persuaded the patient's doctor to try thalidomide, and that doctor conducted a clinical trial of thalidomide for people with multiple myeloma in which about a third of the subjects responded to the treatment. The results of that trial were published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1999.\n\nAfter further work was done by Celgene and others, in 2006 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted accelerated approval for thalidomide in combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients.\n\nIn the late 1950s and early 1960s, more than 10,000 children in 46 countries were born with deformities such as phocomelia as a consequence of thalidomide use. The severity and location of the deformities depended on how many days into the pregnancy the mother was before beginning treatment; thalidomide taken on the 20th day of pregnancy caused central brain damage, day 21 would damage the eyes, day 22 the ears and face, day 24 the arms, and leg damage would occur if taken up to day 28. Thalidomide did not damage the fetus if taken after 42 days gestation.\n\nIt is not known exactly how many worldwide victims of the drug there have been, although estimates range from 10,000 to 20,000 to 100,000. Despite the side effects, thalidomide was sold in pharmacies in Canada until 1962.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the drug was licensed in 1958 and withdrawn in 1961. Of the approximately 2,000 babies born with defects, around half died within a few months and 466 survived to at least 2010.\n\nIn Spain, thalidomide was widely available throughout the 1970s, perhaps even into the 1980s. There were two reasons for this. First, state controls and safeguarding were poor; indeed, it was not until 2008 that the government even admitted the country had ever imported thalidomide. Second, Grünenthal failed to insist that its sister company in Madrid warn Spanish doctors, and permitted it to not warn them. The Spanish advocacy group for victims of thalidomide estimates that in 2015, there were 250–300 living victims of thalidomide in Spain.\n\nAlthough the Australian obstetrician William McBride took credit for raising the alarm about thalidomide it was a midwife who first suspected the drug was causing birth defects in the babies of patients under his care at Crown Street Women's Hospital in Sydney. German paediatrician Widukind Lenz, who also suspected the link, is credited with conducting the scientific research that proved thalidomide was causing birth defects in 1961. McBride was later awarded a number of honors, including a medal and prize money by L'Institut de la Vie in Paris, but he was eventually struck off the Australian medical register in 1993 for scientific fraud. Further animal tests were conducted by Dr George Somers, Chief Pharmacologist of Distillers Company in Britain, which showed foetal abnormalities in rabbits. Similar results were also published showing these effects in rats and other species.\n\nIn East Germany, the head of the central pharmacy control commission, Friedrich Jung, suspected an antivitaminic effect of thalidomide as derivative of glutamic acid. Meanwhile, in West Germany, it took some time before the increase in dysmelia at the end of the 1950s was connected with thalidomide. In 1958, Karl Beck, a former pediatric doctor in Bayreuth, wrote an article in a local newspaper claiming a relationship between nuclear weapons testing and cases of dysmelia in children. Based on this, FDP whip Erich Mende requested an official statement from the federal government. For statistical reasons, the main data series used to research dysmelia cases started by chance at the same time as the approval date for thalidomide. After the Nazi regime with its Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring used mandatory statistical monitoring to commit various crimes, western Germany had been very reluctant to monitor congenital disorders in a similarly strict way. The parliamentary report rejected any relation with radioactivity and the abnormal increase of dysmelia. Also the DFG research project installed after the Mende request was not helpful. The project was led by pathologist Franz Büchner, who ran the project to propagate his teratological theory. Büchner saw lack of healthy nutrition and behavior of the mothers as being more important than genetic reasons. Furthermore, it took a while to install a Surgeon General in Germany; the Federal Ministry of Health was not founded until 1962, some months after thalidomide was banned from the market. In Germany approximately 2,500 thalidomide babies were born.\n\nSeveral countries either restricted the drug's use or never approved it. Ingeborg Eichler, a member of the Austrian pharmaceutical admission conference, enforced thalidomide (tradename Softenon) being sold under the rules of prescription medication and as a result relatively few affected children were born in Austria and Switzerland. In the United States, pharmacologist Frances Oldham Kelsey M.D. withstood pressure from the Richardson-Merrell company and refused Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval to market thalidomide, saying further studies were needed. This reduced the impact of thalidomide in United States patients. Although thalidomide was never approved for sale in the United States at the time, over 2.5 million tablets had been distributed to over 1,000 physicians during a clinical testing program. It is estimated that nearly 20,000 patients, several hundred of whom were pregnant women, were given the drug to help alleviate morning sickness or as a sedative, and at least 17 children were consequently born in America with thalidomide-associated deformities.\n\nA woman named Sherri Finkbine publicized the serious problems of thalidomide. Finkbine had been taking sleeping pills that contained this drug while she was pregnant, as it was popular at the time. She had later learned that thalidomide was causing fetal deformities. She wanted to abort her pregnancy, but the laws of Arizona allowed abortion only if the mother's life was in danger. Finkbine traveled to Sweden to have the abortion, which was expensive for her. Thalidomide was found to have deformed the fetus.\n\nThe numerous reports of malformations in babies brought about the awareness of the side effects of the drug on pregnant women. The birth defects caused by the drug thalidomide can range from moderate malformation to more severe forms. Possible birth defects include phocomelia, dysmelia, amelia, bone hypoplasticity, and other congenital defects affecting the ear, heart, or internal organs. Franks et al. looked at how the drug affected newborn babies, the severity of their deformities, and reviewed the drug in its early years. Webb in 1963 also reviewed the history of the drug and the different forms of birth defects it had caused. \"The most common form of birth defects from thalidomide is shortened limbs, with the arms being more frequently affected. This syndrome is the presence of deformities of the long bones of the limbs resulting in shortening and other abnormalities.\"\n\nIn 1968, a large criminal trial began in Germany, charging several Grünenthal officials with negligent homicide and injury. \nAfter Grünenthal settled with the victims in April 1970, the trial ended in December 1970 with no finding of guilt. As part of the settlement, Grünenthal paid 100 million DM into a special foundation; the German government added 320 million DM. The foundation paid victims a one-time sum of 2,500-25,000 DM (depending on severity of disability) and a monthly stipend of 100-450 DM. The monthly stipends have since been raised substantially and are now paid entirely by the government (as the foundation had run out of money). Grünenthal paid another 50 million Euros into the foundation in 2008.\n\nOn 31 August 2012, Grünenthal chief executive Harald F. Stock who served as the Chief Executive Officer of Grünenthal GmbH from January 2009 to May 28, 2013 and was also a Member of Executive Board until 28 May 2013, apologized for the first time for producing the drug and remaining silent about the birth defects. At a ceremony, Stock unveiled a statue of a disabled child to symbolize those harmed by thalidomide and apologized for not trying to reach out to victims for over 50 years. At the time of the apology, there were 5,000 to 6,000 sufferers still alive. Victim advocates called the apology \"insulting\" and \"too little, too late\", and criticized the company for not compensating victims. They also criticized the company for their claim that no one could have known the harm the drug caused, arguing that there were plenty of red flags at the time.\n\nIn 1968, after a long campaign by \"The Sunday Times\", a compensation settlement for the UK victims was reached with Distillers Company (now part of Diageo), which had distributed the drug in the UK. This compensation, which is distributed by the Thalidomide Trust in the UK, was substantially increased by Diageo in 2005. The UK Government gave survivors a grant of £20 million, to be distributed through the Thalidomide Trust, in December 2009.\n\nMelbourne woman Lynette Rowe, who was born without limbs, led an Australian class action lawsuit against the drug's manufacturer, Grünenthal, which fought to have the case heard in Germany. The Supreme Court of Victoria dismissed Grünenthal's application in 2012, and the case was heard in Australia. On 17 July 2012, Rowe was awarded an out-of-court settlement, believed to be in the millions of dollars and paving the way for class action victims to receive further compensation. In February 2014, the Supreme Court of Victoria endorsed the settlement of $89 million AUD to 107 victims of the drug in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe drug thalidomide's birth defects in children affected many people's lives, and from these events came the formation of the group called The Thalidomide Victims Association of Canada, a group of 120 Canadian survivors. Their goal was to prevent future usage of drugs that could be of potential harm to mothers and babies. The members from the thalidomide victims association were involved in the STEPS program, which aimed to prevent teratogenicity.\n\nThe effects of thalidomide increased fears regarding the safety of pharmaceutical drugs. The Society of Toxicology of Canada was formed after the effects of thalidomide were made public, focusing on toxicology as a discipline separate from pharmacology. The need for the testing and approval of the toxins in certain pharmaceutical drugs became more important after the disaster. The Society of Toxicology of Canada is responsible for the Conservation Environment Protection Act, focusing on researching the impact to human health of chemical substances. Thalidomide brought on changes in the way drugs are tested, what type of drugs are used during pregnancy, and increased the awareness of potential side effects of drugs.\n\nAccording to Canadian news magazine program \"W5\", most, but not all, victims of thalidomide receive annual benefits as compensation from the Government of Canada. Excluded are those who cannot provide the documentation the government requires.\n\nFor denying the application despite the pressure from Richardson-Merrell, Kelsey eventually received the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service at a 1962 ceremony with President John F. Kennedy. In September 2010, the FDA honored Kelsey with the first Kelsey award, given annually to an FDA staff member. This came 50 years after Kelsey, then a new medical officer at the agency, first reviewed the application from the William S. Merrell Company of Cincinnati.\n\nCardiologist Helen B. Taussig learned of the damaging effects of the drug thalidomide on newborns and in 1967, testified before Congress on this matter after a trip to Germany where she worked with infants with phocomelia (severe limb deformities). As a result of her efforts, thalidomide was banned in the United States and Europe.\n\n\nThe disaster prompted many countries to introduce tougher rules for the testing and licensing of drugs, such as the Kefauver Harris Amendment (U.S.), Directive 65/65/EEC1 (E.U.), and the Medicines Act 1968. In the United States, the new regulations strengthened the FDA, among other ways, by requiring applicants to prove efficacy and to disclose all side effects encountered in testing. The FDA subsequently initiated the Drug Efficacy Study Implementation to reclassify drugs already on the market.\n\nResearch efforts have been focused on determining how thalidomide causes birth defects and its other activities in the human body, efforts to develop safer analogs, and efforts to find further uses for thalidomide.\n\nThe exploration of the antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory activities of thalidomide has led to the study and creation of thalidomide analogs. Celgene has sponsored numerous clinical trials with analogues to thalidomide, such as lenalidomide, that are substantially more powerful and have fewer side effects — except for greater myelosuppression. In 2005, Celgene received FDA approval for lenalidomide (Revlimid) as the first commercially useful derivative. Revlimid is available only in a restricted distribution setting to avoid its use during pregnancy. Further studies are being conducted to find safer compounds with useful qualities. Another more potent analog, pomalidomide, is now FDA approved. Additionally, apremilast was approved by the FDA in March 2014. These thalidomide analogs can be used to treat different diseases, or used in a regimen to fight two conditions.\n\nInterest turned to pomalidomide, a derivative of thalidomide marketed by Celgene. It is a very active anti-angiogenic agent and also acts as an immunomodulator. Pomalidomide was approved in February 2013 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a treatment for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. It received a similar approval from the European Commission in August 2013, and is expected to be marketed in Europe under the brand name Imnovid.\n\nThere is no conclusive evidence that thalidomide or lenalidomide is useful to bring about or maintain remission in Crohn's disease.\n\nThalidomide was studied in a Phase II trial for Kaposi's sarcoma, a rare soft-tissue cancer most commonly seen in the immunocompromised, that is caused by the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15131958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15131958", "title": "The Nest (1988 film)", "text": "The Nest (1988 film)\n\nThe Nest is an American creature feature horror film, based on the novel by Eli Cantor (under the pseudonym of Gregory A Douglas), from Roger Corman's Concorde Pictures and producer Julie Corman. The tagline is \"Roaches have never tasted flesh... until now.\" Flesh-eating zombie-like mutant cockroaches terrorize a peaceful island community presented as a New England fishing village. However, the film was created on location at Bronson Caves, Bronson Canyon, Griffith Park in Los Angeles, as well as Malibu, Leo Carillo Beach, and Catalina Island.\n\nThe sheriff of this small island town called North Port has a roach problem in his house. According to the local exterminator Homer (played by Stephen Davies), it turns out the whole town is about to have a big roach problem. Pets, and then people, begin to disappear.\n\nAlthough Sheriff Richard Tarbell (played by Frank Luz) is dating Lillian, the owner of the local eatery, his high school sweetheart Elizabeth Johnson returns to the island after a four-year absence and their romance blooms again. Elizabeth (played by Lisa Langlois) happens to be the daughter of the town's mayor, Elias Johnson (played by Robert Lansing), who is in cahoots with an evil corporation called INTEC that has been secretly breeding mutant roaches that are immune to normal insect repellants. They also seem to have the ability to assume the form of anything they kill, leading to some animal/roach hybrids and even a roach/human combo.\n\n\"The Nest\" received a limited release theatrically from Concorde Films the United States in May 1988. It was released later that year on VHS by MGM/UA Home Video.\n\nNew Concorde Home Entertainment released the film on DVD in 2001 and Shout! Factory released a Blu-ray/DVD combo pack in 2013.\n\nCritical reception for the film was mixed, with the Sun Sentinel writing that although the film was \"no masterpiece\", \"fans of the genre get their money's worth\". The Pittsburgh Press panned the film, criticizing the film's story line as too familiar.\n"}
{"id": "22256076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22256076", "title": "Thermal neutral zone", "text": "Thermal neutral zone\n\nA class of endothermic organisms known as homeotherms maintain internal temperatures, with minimal metabolic regulation, within a range of ambient temperatures called The thermal neutral zone (TNZ). Within the TNZ the basal rate of heat production is equal to the rate of heat loss to the environment. Homeothermic organisms adjust to the temperatures within the TNZ through different responses requiring little energy.\n\nEnvironmental temperatures can cause fluctuations in a homeothermic organism’s metabolic rate. This response is due to the energy required to maintain relatively constant body temperature above ambient temperature by controlling heat loss and heat gain. The degree of this response depends not only on the species, but also on the levels of insulative and metabolic adaptation. Environmental temperatures below the TNZ, the lower critical temperature (LCT), require an organism to increase its metabolic rate to meet the environmental demands for heat. Regulation about the TNZ requires metabolic heat production when the LCT is reached, as heat is lost to the environment. The organism reaches the LCT when the T (ambient temp.) decreases.\n\nWhen an organism reaches this stage the metabolic rate increases significantly and thermogenesis increases the T (body temp.) If the Ta continues to decrease far below the LCT hypothermia occurs. Alternatively, evaporative heat loss for cooling when temperatures above the TNZ, the upper critical zone (UCT), are realized Speakman and Keijer 2013). When the T reaches too far out of the UCT the rate heat gain and heat production become higher than the rate of heat dissipation (heat loss through evaporative cooling), resulting in hyperthermia.\n\nIt can show postural changes where it changes its body shape or moves and exposes different areas to the sun/shade, and through radiation, convection and conduction, heat exchange occurs. Vasomotor responses allow control of the flow of blood between the periphery and the core to control heat loss from the surface of the body. Lastly, the organism can show insulation adjustments; a common example being “goosebumps” in humans where hair follicles are raised by pilomotor muscles, also shown in animals’ pelage and plumage.\n\nThe thermoneutral zone describes a range of temperatures of the immediate environment in which a standard healthy adult can maintain normal body temperature without needing to use energy above and beyond normal basal metabolic rate. Its value is 25 - 30 degrees Celsius (77 - 86 degrees Fahrenheit) for a naked man, standing upright, in still air. Note this is for a resting human and does not allow for shivering, sweating or exercising. Even with light clothing, radiation and convection losses are dramatically reduced, effectively reducing the TNZ. Hence, a comfortable temperature in a heated building may be 18 - 22 degrees Celsius (64.4 - 71.6 degrees Fahrenheit).\n\nHumans produce an obligatory ~100 watts of heat energy as a by-product from basic processes like pumping blood, digesting, breathing, biochemical synthesis and catabolism etc. This is comparable to a common incandescent light-bulb. Hence, if the body were perfectly insulated, core temperature would continue to increase until lethal core temperatures were achieved. Conversely, we are normally in surroundings that are considerably colder than body core temperature (37 degrees Celsius or 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit) and hence there is a large gradient for thermal energy flow from the core to the surroundings. Therefore, the body must ensure it can also minimize the loss of heat to around 100 watts, if it is to maintain core temperature. In short, the skin must be able to get rid of 100 watts of heat in relatively warm environments, but also ensure that it does not lose too much more than this in relatively cold environments.\n\nThe human outer or peripheral shell (skin, subcutaneous fat etc.) acts as an adjustable insulator/radiator with the main mechanism of adjustment being blood flow to this compartment. If the surroundings are warm then heat loss is less, so the body directs more blood to the periphery to maintain the gradient for energy flow. Conversely, if the surroundings are cool, blood flow can be profoundly reduced to the skin, so that heat loss is reduced significantly.\n\nThese passive processes determine the TNZ, as negligible work is done to redirect blood to the peripheries or the core.\n\nPhysiological mechanisms:\n\nThe skin has a huge capacity to accept blood flow resulting in a range of 1ml/100g of skin/min, to 150ml/100g/min. Its metabolic requirements are very low and hence it only requires a very small fraction of the heart's output to maintain its own growth and metabolism. In temperate environments the blood flow to the skin is much higher than required for metabolism, the determining factor is the need for the body to get rid of its heat. In fact, skin can survive for long periods of time (hours) with sub-physiological blood flow and oxygenation, and, as long as this is followed by a period of good perfusion, necrosis will not occur.\n\nIn temperate environments there is room to increase or decrease blood flow to the skin dramatically. This is achieved by way of special arrangements in the vascular beds of the skin. There are significant numbers of extra vessels, especially in the extremities with their large surface areas (hands, ears, toes etc.). These are direct connections between artery and vein which bypass nourishing capillaries, and are controlled by the sympathetic nervous system. These shunts are normally mostly closed, but opening them up allows the skin to become engorged with blood, and because these vessels have low resistance, the blood flow through them is brisk. Conversely, when blood supply to the skin must be reduced these shunts can be closed and furthermore, the normal mechanism of vasoconstriction of arterioles, can dramatically reduce perfusion of the skin.\n"}
{"id": "25718149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25718149", "title": "Tillson Harrison", "text": "Tillson Harrison\n\nTillson Lever Harrison (January 7, 1881 – January 10, 1947) was a Canadian physician, army officer and adventurer. Moving to New York and enlisting in the United States Army at an early age, he later returned to Canada to attend the University of Toronto before practising as a physician in a number of dangerous positions, such as the Chief of Medical Staff to Pancho Villa and the doctor for the Chinese Labour Corps, a workforce of over 200,000 men. After World War I, he traveled throughout the Middle East, treating venereal disease and operating an X-ray facility in Lod, Israel.\n\nAfter attempting to elope with one of his Middle East hospital patients, Harrison was deported to Canada but managed to jump ship in Morocco and join the Free State Army. In the 1930s, he traveled through 15 countries and dependencies performing medical duties, and served as a ship's doctor on a liner that crossed the Indian Ocean during World War II . From 1946 until his death, he assisted in the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) in China, saving many lives.\n\nBy the end of his life, Harrison could speak six languages, had participated in seven wars, and was married to four women at the same time. His daughter Rosalind said that the character Indiana Jones was based on him. According to Rosalind, film producers George Lucas and Steven Spielberg contacted her after her father's death and conducted a series of interviews, during which she provided an account of his life.\n\nHarrison was born on January 7, 1881, in Tillsonburg, Ontario, a town named for his great-grandfather George. His grandfather, Edwin Delevan Tillson, was the builder of what is now the Annandale National Historic Site. As a child, Harrison was considered a troublemaker. On one occasion he locked his grandmother in her bedroom and on another became a local newspaper sensation after his attempt to travel to Cuba was discovered. In 1894, he was enrolled at the Upper Canada College in Toronto, but left the next year. At the age of 14, he ran away to join the 22nd Oxford Rifles militia, headquartered in Oxford County, but was returned home when it was discovered that he was underage. Soon after, he moved to New York City to join the United States Army Engineers and serve as part of the peacekeeping force in the Philippines after the defeat of Spain in 1898, and for a brief period to help put down the Boxer Rebellion in China. Mostly involved in the running of labor gangs building supply roads to remote areas, Harrison was involved in only one firefight. However, when his maternal grandfather, Edwin \"E.D.\" Tillson (whose company evolved into Quaker Oats), discovered what the 20-year-old was doing, he used his connections to influence General Adna Chaffee into issuing a general order for the recall of Harrison from the field. While serving with the US Army, Harrison contracted cholera and returned to Canada. Using the inheritance he had received from his recently deceased grandfather, Harrison began attending the University of Toronto medical school before marrying Sybil Wilkin, a lawyer's daughter, in 1905.\n\nAfter his graduation from medical school in 1907, Harrison gained employment with the Hudson's Bay Company and began treating the Cree community of Alberta and acting as the local postmaster. Soon after, Harrison again moved his family to Washington, Idaho and finally Drewsey, Oregon, where he became a doctor, pharmacist, mayor, developer and rancher. In 1909, Harrison fathered a daughter, Rosalind, with his wife Sybil. In 1912, the Journal of the American Medical Association published an article written by Harrison, titled \"Cesarean Section Under Difficulties\", which documented a caesarean section he performed in a remote ranch-house lit by an oil lamp. Because of his restless nature, Harrison left his family in Oregon and traveled to London in 1913 to undergo postgraduate work in gynecology and obstetrics. When World War I began in 1914, Harrison assisted in the war effort in Belgium. While there, he met a Turkish woman named Eva, and married her without divorcing his first wife. In 1915, Harrison and his new wife traveled to El Paso, Texas, to settle down.\n\nShortly after arriving in Texas, Harrison took the dangerous job of Chief of Medical Staff to Mexican revolutionary general Pancho Villa. In one situation, Harrison was captured by Villa's foe Venustiano Carranza, later the President of Mexico. The doctor was sentenced to death, but when Carranza became ill, Harrison was spared as he was the only qualified physician available. Harrison kept the general in a state of near-recovery, enabling him to escape and deliver military information to US forces stationed along the border.\n\nAfter a brief stay among the Mormon community of southern Utah, Harrison enlisted in the Canadian Army Medical Corps in 1917 and was stationed at a French hospital, where he tended to the needs of the Chinese Labour Corps. Quickly learning the language and customs of this group of some 200,000 men, Harrison successfully treated many bilharzia, catarrh and tuberculosis cases, significantly reducing the number of sick members of the Corps during the winter of 1917–18.\n\nAfter World War I, Harrison traveled the Middle East performing medical duties such as treating prostitutes afflicted with venereal disease in Constantinople and operating an X-ray facility in Lod, Israel. Although still not legally divorced from his first two wives, Harrison married Filomena Abela, a Maltese woman at Alexandria in 1920. However, the newlyweds could not find escape from the adventure that had followed Harrison all his life. Harrison and his new wife's train was ambushed by a band of Syrians disillusioned with a group of politicians. The quick thinking of the recently thrice-married physician prevented his new wife's broken leg from developing into gangrene.\n\nStill in charge of the Constantinople hospital, he attempted to elope with one of his patients, but was captured and tried for breach of conduct, as the female patient was in fact the wife of a Turkish officer. While being deported to Canada, Harrison escaped while his ship was docked in Morocco. Making his way to Ireland, Harrison posed as a Catholic and joined the Free State Army. After he was discovered, he quickly crossed to Wales to treat the coal miners there for silicosis. In 1923 Harrison married his fourth wife, Eva Olwen Bowen in Cardiff, still without divorcing his three previous wives, and set off with her on an adventure in the Caribbean. It is thought that Harrison deserted her sometime in the mid-1920s. During the 1930s Harrison worked in 15 countries and dependencies across Latin America and the Middle East. For one year, he served as the physician for a guerrilla army fighting the Japanese, who were then engaged in the Second Sino-Japanese War with China. After 1938, Harrison traveled to Shanghai using borrowed funds from a medical school classmate in Jamaica and from his own brother in Ontario, and set up a private medical practice, assisting the Chinese Red Cross wherever possible.\n\nBetween 1941 and 1946, Harrison was the ship's doctor on board the \"Demodocus\", a steam liner ferrying supplies to Allied forces across the Indian Ocean. After the war, Harrison wanted to assist the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA), but had to falsify his records by subtracting seven years off his age to qualify for service. During this time, he served in China delivering much-needed supplies to a country devastated by the long Second Sino-Japanese War and once even saved the lives of 90 students by sheltering them from a Kuomintang officer. By donning an American army officer's uniform, Harrison was able to convince the Kuomintang officer to not check a barge which held the students hidden inside.\nOn December 4, 1946, Harrison set out from Shanghai with approximately 50 tonnes of supplies. On this train journey, he was to be accompanied by a Russian UNRRA worker and Chinese welfare representatives. Due to repeated Kuomintang inspections, the train journey constantly suffered from delays. The first such delay occurred at Nanjing and lasted four days; the second such delay, at Xuzhou, was of equal duration. At one station, the medical supplies were unhooked from the train's engine car and left on a bleak plain. The two UNRRA workers did not have clean water to drink and were forced to boil ditch water which was polluted with human waste. To add to the dire situation, Harrison's blanket and shoes were stolen, and due to the cold, he began to suffer from frostbite. Two weeks after Harrison left Shanghai, his train was permitted to move again, but there were problems still ahead. At each one of the 20 stations en route to Kaifeng, the train was delayed for up to three hours. Upon arrival at Kaifeng, the journey had to be completed by truck and ox cart. After completing one delivery, he returned to Kaifeng to pick up a second load, but could not continue past the Zhangqiu branch of the receiving hospital. Harrison died of exposure on January 10, 1947, near Kaifeng in China, aged 66.\n\nBy the end of his life, Tillson Harrison could speak no less than six different languages, had participated in seven wars and, although this was not discovered for several years after his death, was married to four women at the same time.\n\nWhile he is virtually unknown in Canada, Harrison is widely honored in China. A statue in his likeness stands tall in Shanghai, his burial site at an Anglican compound in Kaifeng is home to the Dr. Tillson Harrison Memorial School, and the Harrison International Peace Hospital in Hengshui treats approximately 800 outpatients every day. The town of Tillsonburg, Ontario (named for Harrison's great-grandfather) maintains a lasting relationship with the hospital, which was renamed as such from the previous name of Handan International Peace Hospital in 1947. In 1988, the Prime Minister of Canada, Brian Mulroney, sent a commemorative letter to the Chinese ambassador to mark the centenary of Harrison's birth. However at that time it was not made clear that Harrison had falsified his age when enlisting in the UNRRA, and the celebrations took place seven years after the actual centenary. The same year, Harrison's remains were re-interred in a large tomb in a public ceremony, which many Canadians were invited to attend.\n\nAccording to Harrison's daughter, Rosalind, several decades after her father's death, film producers George Lucas and Steven Spielberg contacted her, and in a series of interviews, Rosalind provided an account of her father's illustrious life. This, she claims, became the inspiration for the highly successful \"Indiana Jones\" film series. In recent times, Harrison was the subject of a five-part CBC Radio Morningside dramatization of his life, written by Antanas Sileika.\n"}
{"id": "1694744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694744", "title": "Turmite", "text": "Turmite\n\nIn computer science, a turmite is a Turing machine which has an orientation as well as a current state and a \"tape\" that consists of an infinite two-dimensional grid of cells. The terms ant and vant are also used. Langton's ant is a well-known type of turmite defined on the cells of a square grid. Paterson's worms are a type of turmite defined on the edges of an isometric grid.\n\nIt has been shown that turmites in general are exactly equivalent in power to one-dimensional Turing machines with an infinite tape, as either can simulate the other.\n\nLangton's ants were invented in 1986 and declared \"equivalent to Turing machines\". Independently, in 1988, Allen H. Brady considered the idea of two-dimensional Turing machines with an orientation and called them \"TurNing machines\".\n\nApparently independently of both of these, Greg Turk investigated the same kind of system and wrote to A. K. Dewdney about them. A. K. Dewdney named them \"tur-mites\" in his \"Computer Recreations\" column in Scientific American in 1989. Rudy Rucker relates the story as follows:\n\nTurmites can be categorised as being either \"relative\" or \"absolute\". Relative turmites, alternatively known as \"Turning machines\", have an internal orientation. Langton's Ant is such an example. Relative turmites are, by definition, isotropic; rotating the turmite does not affect its outcome. Relative turmites are so named because the directions are encoded \"relative\" to the current orientation, equivalent to using the words \"left\" or \"backwards\". Absolute turmites, by comparison, encode their directions in absolute terms: a particular instruction may direct the turmite to move \"North\". Absolute turmites are two-dimensional analogues of conventional Turing machines, so are occasionally referred to as simply \"Two-dimensional Turing machines\". The remainder of this article is concerned with the relative case.\n\nThe following specification is specific to turmites on a two-dimensional square grid, the most studied type of turmite. Turmites on other grids can be specified in a similar fashion.\n\nAs with Langton's ant, turmites perform the following operations each timestep:\n\n\nAs with Turing machines, the actions are specified by a state transition table listing the current internal state of the turmite and the color of the cell it is currently standing on. For example, the turmite shown in the image at the top of this page is specified by the following table:\n\nThe direction to turn is one of L (90° left), R (90° right), N (no turn) and U (180° U-turn).\n\nStarting from an empty grid or other configurations, the most commonly observed behaviours are chaotic growth, spiral growth and 'highway' construction. Rare examples become periodic after a certain number of steps.\n\nAllen H. Brady searched for terminating turmites (the equivalent of busy beavers) and found a 2-state 2-color machine that printed 37 1's before halting, and another that took 121 steps before halting. He also considered turmites that move on a triangular grid, finding several busy beavers here too.\n\nEd Pegg, Jr. considered another approach to the busy beaver game. He suggested turmites that can turn for example \"both\" left and right, splitting in two. Turmites that later meet annihilate each other. In this system, a Busy Beaver is one that from a starting pattern of a single turmite lasts the longest before all the turmites annihilate each other.\n\nFollowing Allen H. Brady's initial work of turmites on a triangular grid, hexagonal tilings have also been explored. Much of this work is due to Tim Hutton, and his results are on the Rule Table Repository. He has also considered Turmites in three dimensions, and collected some preliminary results. Allen H. Brady and Tim Hutton have also investigated one-dimensional relative turmites on the integer lattice, which Brady termed \"flippers\". (One-dimensional \"absolute\" turmites are of course simply known as Turing machines.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59025512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59025512", "title": "UN Counter Terrorism Office", "text": "UN Counter Terrorism Office\n\nThe UN Counter-Terrorism Office was approved in a resolution on June 15, 2017 with the consensus of the 193-nation UN General Assembly. The creation of the office was also welcomed by Secretary-General of the United Nations António Guterres' initiative to transfer relevant functions out of the UN Department of Political Affairs (DPA) and into the new United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism.\n\nAccording to the Chief UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric, the secretary-general welcomed the adoption of the General Assembly resolution \"which endorsed his proposal to establish a new UN Office of Counter-Terrorism.\"\n\"The Secretary-General considers counter-terrorism and prevention of violent extremism to be one of the highest priorities of the United Nations to address a growing threat to international peace and security,\" Dujarric said.\n\"He therefore hopes that this reform of the UN Counter-Terrorism architecture will contribute to the UN's broader efforts to promote conflict prevention, sustainable peace and development”, he added.\n\nJahangir Khan is the head of the United Nations New Anti-Terrorism Office.\nThe office has 35 employees.\n\n"}
{"id": "56529769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56529769", "title": "Vaginal melanoma", "text": "Vaginal melanoma\n\nVaginal melanoma is a rare malignancy that originates from melanocytes in the vaginal epithelium. It is also known as a melanocytic tumor or as a malignant melanoma. It is aggressive and infrequently cured. The five year survival rate is approximately 21%. It was first described in 1887 and only 500 cases are found in current literature. Vaginal melanoma is 3% of all vaginal cancers and only 0.3% of all melanomas. When the neoplasm is discovered it has already become invasive and prognosis is poor. The average age of those diagnosed is sixty-years-old.\nThis cancer most often develops on the lowest third of the vagina. It is darkly pigmented and of an irregular shape. Melanoma of the vagina can be as large as severally centimeters in size. \nWhen the tissue is assessed, the histological characteristics include: \nOther cancerous conditions arise from vaginal epithelium:\n\nImmunocytochemistry can reveal positive results for S-110 protein, HMB 45 and melan A. \nChemotherapy may be ineffective and surgically removing the tumor and radiation treatment is standard.\n"}
{"id": "33158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33158", "title": "War", "text": "War\n\nWar is a state of armed conflict between states, governments, societies and informal paramilitary groups, such as mercenaries, insurgents and militias. It is generally characterized by extreme violence, aggression, destruction, and mortality, using regular or irregular military forces. Warfare refers to the common activities and characteristics of types of war, or of wars in general. Total war is warfare that is not restricted to purely legitimate military targets, and can result in massive civilian or other non-combatant suffering and casualties.\n\nThe scholarly study of war is sometimes called polemology ( ), from the Greek \"polemos\", meaning \"war\", and \"-logy\", meaning \"the study of\".\n\nWhile some scholars see war as a universal and ancestral aspect of human nature, others argue it is a result of specific socio-cultural or ecological circumstances.\n\nThe English word \"war\" derives from the late Old English (circa.1050) words \"wyrre\" and \"werre\", from Old French \"werre\" (also \"guerre\" as in modern French), in turn from the Frankish *\"werra\", ultimately deriving from the Proto-Germanic *\"werzō\" 'mixture, confusion'. The word is related to the Old Saxon \"werran\", Old High German \"werran\", and the German \"verwirren\", meaning “to confuse”, “to perplex”, and “to bring into confusion”.\n\nWar must entail some degree of confrontation using weapons and other military technology and equipment by armed forces employing military tactics and operational art within a broad military strategy subject to military logistics. Studies of war by military theorists throughout military history have sought to identify the philosophy of war, and to reduce it to a military science. Modern military science considers several factors before a national defence policy is created to allow a war to commence: the environment in the area(s) of combat operations, the posture national forces will adopt on the commencement of a war, and the type of warfare troops will be engaged in.\n\n\nThe earliest recorded evidence of war belongs to the Mesolithic cemetery Site 117, which has been determined to be approximately 14,000 years old. About forty-five percent of the skeletons there displayed signs of violent death. Since the rise of the state some 5,000 years ago, military activity has occurred over much of the globe. The advent of gunpowder and the acceleration of technological advances led to modern warfare. According to Conway W. Henderson, \"One source claims that 14,500 wars have taken place between 3500 BC and the late 20th century, costing 3.5 billion lives, leaving only 300 years of peace (Beer 1981: 20).\" An unfavorable review of this estimate mentions the following regarding one of the proponents of this estimate: \"In addition, perhaps feeling that the war casualties figure was improbably high, he changed \"approximately 3,640,000,000 human beings have been killed by war or the diseases produced by war\" to \"approximately 1,240,000,000 human beings...&c.\"\" The lower figure is more plausible, but could also be on the high side, considering that the 100 deadliest acts of mass violence between 480 BCE and 2002 CE (wars and other man-made disasters with at least 300,000 and up to 66 million victims) claimed about 455 million human lives in total. Primitive warfare is estimated to have accounted for 15.1 % of deaths and claimed 400 million victims. Added to the aforementioned (and perhaps too high) figure of 1,240 million between 3500 BC and the late 20th century, this would mean a total of 1,640,000,000 people killed by war (including deaths from famine and disease caused by war) throughout the history and pre-history of mankind. For comparison, an estimated 1,680,000,000 people died from infectious diseases in the 20th century. Nuclear warfare breaking out in August 1988, when nuclear arsenals were at peak level, and the aftermath thereof, could have reduced human population from 5,150,000,000 by 1,850,000,000 to 3,300,000,000 within a period of about one year, according to a projection that did not consider \"the most severe predictions concerning nuclear winter\". This would have been a proportional reduction of the world’s population exceeding the reduction caused in the 14th century by the Black Death, and comparable in proportional terms with the plague’s impact on Europe's population in 1346–53.\n\nIn \"War Before Civilization\", Lawrence H. Keeley, a professor at the University of Illinois, says approximately 90–95% of known societies throughout history engaged in at least occasional warfare, and many fought constantly.\n\nKeeley describes several styles of primitive combat such as small raids, large raids, and massacres. All of these forms of warfare were used by primitive societies, a finding supported by other researchers. Keeley explains that early war raids were not well organized, as the participants did not have any formal training. Scarcity of resources meant defensive works were not a cost-effective way to protect the society against enemy raids.\n\nWilliam Rubinstein wrote \"Pre-literate societies, even those organised in a relatively advanced way, were renowned for their studied cruelty...'archaeology yields evidence of prehistoric massacres more severe than any recounted in ethnography [i.e., after the coming of the Europeans].'\"\nIn Western Europe, since the late 18th century, more than 150 conflicts and about 600 battles have taken place. During the 20th century, war resulted in a dramatic intensification of the pace of social changes, and was a crucial catalyst for the emergence of the Left as a force to be reckoned with.\n\nRecent rapid increases in the technologies of war, and therefore in its destructiveness (see mutual assured destruction), have caused widespread public concern, and have in all probability forestalled, and may altogether prevent the outbreak of a nuclear World War III. At the end of each of the last two World Wars, concerted and popular efforts were made to come to a greater understanding of the underlying dynamics of war and to thereby hopefully reduce or even eliminate it altogether. These efforts materialized in the forms of the League of Nations, and its successor, the United Nations.\nIn 1947, in view of the rapidly increasingly destructive consequences of modern warfare, and with a particular concern for the consequences and costs of the newly developed atom bomb, Albert Einstein famously stated, \"I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones.\"\n\nMao Zedong urged the socialist camp not to fear nuclear war with the United States since, even if \"half of mankind died, the other half would remain while imperialism would be razed to the ground and the whole world would become socialist.\"\n\nThe Human Security Report 2005 documented a significant decline in the number and severity of armed conflicts since the end of the Cold War in the early 1990s. However, the evidence examined in the 2008 edition of the Center for International Development and Conflict Management's \"Peace and Conflict\" study indicated the overall decline in conflicts had stalled.\n\nHuman history had numerous wars coming and going, but the average number of people dying from war has fluctuated relatively little, being about 1 to 10 people dying per 100,000. However, major wars over shorter periods have resulted in much higher casualty rates, with 100-200 casualties per 100,000 over a few years. While conventional wisdom holds that casualties have increased in recent times due to technological improvements in warfare, this is not generally true. For instance, the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648) had about the same number of casualties per capita as World War I, although it was higher during World War II (WWII). That said, overall the number of casualties from war has not significantly increased in recent times. Quite to the contrary, on a global scale the time since WWII has been unusually peaceful.\n\nThe deadliest war in history, in terms of the cumulative number of deaths since its start, is World War II, from 1939 to 1945, with 60–85 million deaths, followed by the Mongol conquests at up to 60 million. As concerns a belligerent's losses in proportion to its prewar population, the most destructive war in modern history may have been the Paraguayan War (see Paraguayan War casualties). In 2013 war resulted in 31,000 deaths, down from 72,000 deaths in 1990. In 2003, Richard Smalley identified war as the sixth biggest problem (out of ten) facing humanity for the next fifty years. War usually results in significant deterioration of infrastructure and the ecosystem, a decrease in social spending, famine, large-scale emigration from the war zone, and often the mistreatment of prisoners of war or civilians. For instance, of the nine million people who were on the territory of the Byelorussian SSR in 1941, some 1.6 million were killed by the Germans in actions away from battlefields, including about 700,000 prisoners of war, 500,000 Jews, and 320,000 people counted as partisans (the vast majority of whom were unarmed civilians). Another byproduct of some wars is the prevalence of propaganda by some or all parties in the conflict, and increased revenues by weapons manufacturers.\n\nThree of the ten most costly wars, in terms of loss of life, have been waged in the last century. These are the two World Wars, followed by the Second Sino-Japanese War (which is sometimes considered part of World War II, or as overlapping). Most of the others involved China or neighboring peoples. The death toll of World War II, being over 60 million, surpasses all other war-death-tolls.\nMilitary personnel subject to combat in war often suffer mental and physical injuries, including depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, disease, injury, and death.\n\nDuring World War II, research conducted by US Army Brigadier General S.L.A. Marshall found, on average, 15% to 20% of American riflemen in WWII combat fired at the enemy. In Civil War Collector’s Encyclopedia, F.A. Lord notes that of the 27,574 discarded muskets found on the Gettysburg battlefield, nearly 90% were loaded, with 12,000 loaded more than once and 6,000 loaded 3 to 10 times. These studies suggest most military personnel resist firing their weapons in combat, that – as some theorists argue – human beings have an inherent resistance to killing their fellow human beings. Swank and Marchand’s WWII study found that after sixty days of continuous combat, 98% of all surviving military personnel will become psychiatric casualties. Psychiatric casualties manifest themselves in fatigue cases, confusional states, conversion hysteria, anxiety, obsessional and compulsive states, and character disorders.\n\nAdditionally, it has been estimated anywhere from 18% to 54% of Vietnam war veterans suffered from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.\n\nBased on 1860 census figures, 8% of all white American males aged 13 to 43 died in the American Civil War, including about 6% in the North and approximately 18% in the South. The war remains the deadliest conflict in American history, resulting in the deaths of 620,000 military personnel. United States military casualties of war since 1775 have totaled over two million. Of the 60 million European military personnel who were mobilized in World War I, 8 million were killed, 7 million were permanently disabled, and 15 million were seriously injured.\nDuring Napoleon's retreat from Moscow, more French military personnel died of typhus than were killed by the Russians. Of the 450,000 soldiers who crossed the Neman on 25 June 1812, less than 40,000 returned. More military personnel were killed from 1500–1914 by typhus than from military action. In addition, if it were not for modern medical advances there would be thousands more dead from disease and infection. For instance, during the Seven Years' War, the Royal Navy reported it conscripted 184,899 sailors, of whom 133,708 died of disease or were 'missing'.\n\nIt is estimated that between 1985 and 1994, 378,000 people per year died due to war.\n\nMost wars have resulted in significant loss of life, along with destruction of infrastructure and resources (which may lead to famine, disease, and death in the civilian population). During the Thirty Years' War in Europe, the population of the Holy Roman Empire was reduced by 15 to 40 percent. Civilians in war zones may also be subject to war atrocities such as genocide, while survivors may suffer the psychological aftereffects of witnessing the destruction of war.\n\nMost estimates of World War II casualties indicate around 60 million people died, 40 million of which were civilians. Deaths in the Soviet Union were around 27 million. Since a high proportion of those killed were young men who had not yet fathered any children, population growth in the postwar Soviet Union was much lower than it otherwise would have been.\n\nOnce a war has ended, losing nations are sometimes required to pay war reparations to the victorious nations. In certain cases, land is ceded to the victorious nations. For example, the territory of Alsace-Lorraine has been traded between France and Germany on three different occasions.\n\nTypically, war becomes intertwined with the economy and many wars are partially or entirely based on economic reasons. Some economists believe war can stimulate a country's economy (high government spending for World War II is often credited with bringing the U.S. out of the Great Depression by most Keynesian economists) but in many cases, such as the wars of Louis XIV, the Franco-Prussian War, and World War I, warfare primarily results in damage to the economy of the countries involved. For example, Russia's involvement in World War I took such a toll on the Russian economy that it almost collapsed and greatly contributed to the start of the Russian Revolution of 1917.\n\nWorld War II was the most financially costly conflict in history; its belligerents cumulatively spent about a trillion U.S. dollars on the war effort (as adjusted to 1940 prices).\nThe Great Depression of the 1930s ended as nations increased their production of war materials.\n\nBy the end of the war, 70% of European industrial infrastructure was destroyed. Property damage in the Soviet Union inflicted by the Axis invasion was estimated at a value of 679 billion rubles. The combined damage consisted of complete or partial destruction of 1,710 cities and towns, 70,000 villages/hamlets, 2,508 church buildings, 31,850 industrial establishments, of railroad, 4100 railroad stations, 40,000 hospitals, 84,000 schools, and 43,000 public libraries.\n\nWar leads to forced migration causing potentially large displacements of population. Among forced migrants there are usually relatively large shares of artists and other types of creative people, causing so the war effects to be particularly harmful for the country’s creative potential in the long-run. War also has a negative effect on an artists’ individual life-cycle output.\n\nIn war, cultural institutions, such as libraries, can become \"targets in themselves; their elimination was a way to denigrate and demoralize the enemy population.\" The impact such destruction can have on a society is important because \"in an era in which competing ideologies fuel internal and international conflict, the destruction of libraries and other items of cultural significance is neither random nor irrelevant. Preserving the world’s repositories of knowledge is crucial to ensuring that the darkest moments of history do not endlessly repeat themselves.\"\n\nEntities deliberately contemplating going to war and entities considering whether to end a war may formulate \"war aims\" as an evaluation/propaganda tool. War aims may stand as a proxy for national-military resolve.\n\nFried defines war aims as \"the desired territorial, economic, military or other benefits expected following successful conclusion of a war\".\n\nTangible/intangible aims:\n\nExplicit/implicit aims:\n\nPositive/negative aims:\n\nWar aims can change in the course of conflict and may eventually morph into \"peace conditions\" – the minimal conditions under which a state may cease to wage a particular war.\n\nReligious groups have long formally opposed or sought to limit war as in the Second Vatican Council document \"Gaudiem et Spes\": \"Any act of war aimed indiscriminately at the destruction of entire cities of extensive areas along with their population is a crime against God and man himself. It merits unequivocal and unhesitating condemnation.\"\n\nAnti-war movements have existed for every major war in the 20th century, including, most prominently, World War I, World War II, and the Vietnam War. In the 21st century, worldwide anti-war movements occurred in response to the United States invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq. Protests opposing the War in Afghanistan occurred in Europe, Asia, and the United States. Organizations like Stop the War Coalition, based in the United Kingdom, worked on campaigning against the war.\n\nThe Mexican Drug War, with estimated casualties of 40,000 since December 2006, has recently faced fundamental opposition. In 2011, the movement for peace and justice has started a popular middle-class movement against the war. It won the recognition of President Calderon, who began war.\n\nThere are many theories about the motivations for war, but no consensus about which are most common. Carl von Clausewitz said, 'Every age has its own kind of war, its own limiting conditions, and its own peculiar preconceptions.'\n\nDutch psychoanalyst Joost Meerloo held that, \"War is often...a mass discharge of accumulated internal rage (where)...the inner fears of mankind are discharged in mass destruction.\" Thus war can sometimes be a means by which man's own frustration at his inability to master his own self is expressed and temporarily relieved via his unleashing of destructive behavior upon \"others.\" In this destructive scenario, these \"others\" are made to serve as the scapegoat of unspoken and subconscious frustrations and fears.\n\nOther psychoanalysts such as E.F.M. Durban and John Bowlby have argued human beings are inherently violent. This aggressiveness is fueled by displacement and projection where a person transfers his or her grievances into bias and hatred against other races, religions, nations or ideologies. By this theory, the nation state preserves order in the local society while creating an outlet for aggression through warfare.\n\nThe Italian psychoanalyst Franco Fornari, a follower of Melanie Klein, thought war was the paranoid or projective “elaboration” of mourning. Fornari thought war and violence develop out of our “love need”: our wish to preserve and defend the sacred object to which we are attached, namely our early mother and our fusion with her. For the adult, nations are the sacred objects that generate warfare. Fornari focused upon sacrifice as the essence of war: the astonishing willingness of human beings to die for their country, to give over their bodies to their nation.\n\nDespite Fornari's theory that man's altruistic desire for self-sacrifice for a noble cause is a contributing factor towards war, few wars have originated from a desire for war among the general populace. Far more often the general population has been reluctantly drawn into war by its rulers. One psychological theory that looks at the leaders is advanced by Maurice Walsh. He argues the general populace is more neutral towards war and wars occur when leaders with a psychologically abnormal disregard for human life are placed into power. War is caused by leaders who seek war such as Napoleon and Hitler. Such leaders most often come to power in times of crisis when the populace opts for a decisive leader, who then leads the nation to war.\n\nSeveral theories concern the evolutionary origins of warfare. There are two main schools: One sees organized warfare as emerging in or after the Mesolithic as a result of complex social organization and greater population density and competition over resources; the other sees human warfare as a more ancient practice derived from common animal tendencies, such as territoriality and sexual competition.\n\nThe latter school argues that since warlike behavior patterns are found in many primate species such as chimpanzees, as well as in many ant species, group conflict may be a general feature of animal social behavior. Some proponents of the idea argue that war, while innate, has been intensified greatly by developments of technology and social organization such as weaponry and states.\n\nPsychologist and linguist Steven Pinker argued that war-related behaviors may have been naturally selected in the ancestral environment due to the benefits of victory. He also argued that in order to have credible deterrence against other groups (as well as on an individual level), it was important to have a reputation for retaliation, causing humans to develop instincts for revenge as well as for protecting a group's (or an individual's) reputation (\"honor\").\nCrofoot and Wrangham have argued that warfare, if defined as group interactions in which \"coalitions attempt to aggressively dominate or kill members of other groups\", is a characteristic of most human societies. Those in which it has been lacking \"tend to be societies that were politically dominated by their neighbors\".\n\nAshley Montagu strongly denied universalistic instinctual arguments, arguing that social factors and childhood socialization are important in determining the nature and presence of warfare. Thus, he argues, warfare is not a universal human occurrence and appears to have been a historical invention, associated with certain types of human societies. Montagu's argument is supported by ethnographic research conducted in societies where the concept of aggression seems to be entirely absent, e.g. the Chewong and Semai of the Malay peninsula. Bobbi S. Low has observed correlation between warfare and education, noting societies where warfare is commonplace encourage their children to be more aggressive.\n\nWar can be seen as a growth of economic competition in a competitive international system. In this view wars begin as a pursuit of markets for natural resources and for wealth. War has also been linked to economic development by economic historians and development economists studying state-building and fiscal capacity. While this theory has been applied to many conflicts, such counter arguments become less valid as the increasing mobility of capital and information level the distributions of wealth worldwide, or when considering that it is relative, not absolute, wealth differences that may fuel wars. There are those on the extreme right of the political spectrum who provide support, fascists in particular, by asserting a natural right of a strong nation to whatever the weak cannot hold by force. Some centrist, capitalist, world leaders, including Presidents of the United States and U.S. Generals, expressed support for an economic view of war.\n\nThe Marxist theory of war is quasi-economic in that it states all modern wars are caused by competition for resources and markets between great (imperialist) powers, claiming these wars are a natural result of the free market and class system. Part of the theory is that war will disappear once a world revolution, over-throwing free markets and class systems, has occurred. Marxist philosopher Rosa Luxemburg theorized that imperialism was the result of capitalist countries needing new markets. Expansion of the means of production is only possible if there is a corresponding growth in consumer demand. Since the workers in a capitalist economy would be unable to fill the demand, producers must expand into non-capitalist markets to find consumers for their goods, hence driving imperialism.\n\nDemographic theories can be grouped into two classes, Malthusian and youth bulge theories:\n\nMalthusian theories see expanding population and scarce resources as a source of violent conflict.\n\nPope Urban II in 1095, on the eve of the First Crusade, spoke:\nThis is one of the earliest expressions of what has come to be called the Malthusian theory of war, in which wars are caused by expanding populations and limited resources. Thomas Malthus (1766–1834) wrote that populations always increase until they are limited by war, disease, or famine.\n\nAccording to Heinsohn, who proposed youth bulge theory in its most generalized form, a youth bulge occurs when 30 to 40 percent of the males of a nation belong to the \"fighting age\" cohorts from 15 to 29 years of age. It will follow periods with total fertility rates as high as 4–8 children per woman with a 15–29-year delay.\n\nHeinsohn saw both past \"Christianist\" European colonialism and imperialism, as well as today's Islamist civil unrest and terrorism as results of high birth rates producing youth bulges. Among prominent historical events that have been attributed to youth bulges are the role played by the historically large youth cohorts in the rebellion and revolution waves of early modern Europe, including the French Revolution of 1789, and the effect of economic depression upon the largest German youth cohorts ever in explaining the rise of Nazism in Germany in the 1930s. The 1994 Rwandan Genocide has also been analyzed as following a massive youth bulge.\n\nYouth bulge theory has been subjected to statistical analysis by the World Bank, Population Action International, and the Berlin Institute for Population and Development. Youth bulge theories have been criticized as leading to racial, gender and age discrimination.\n\nRationalism is an international relations theory or framework. Rationalism (and Neorealism (international relations)) operate under the assumption that states or international actors are rational, seek the best possible outcomes for themselves, and desire to avoid the costs of war. Under a game theory approach, rationalist theories posit all actors can bargain, would be better off if war did not occur, and likewise seek to understand why war nonetheless reoccurs. In \"Rationalist Explanations for War\", James Fearon examined three rationalist explanations for why some countries engage in war:\n\n\"Issue indivisibility\" occurs when the two parties cannot avoid war by bargaining, because the thing over which they are fighting cannot be shared between them, but only owned entirely by one side or the other.\n\"Information asymmetry with incentives to misrepresent\" occurs when two countries have secrets about their individual capabilities, and do not agree on either: who would win a war between them, or the magnitude of state's victory or loss. For instance, Geoffrey Blainey argues that war is a result of miscalculation of strength. He cites historical examples of war and demonstrates, \"war is usually the outcome of a diplomatic crisis which cannot be solved because both sides have conflicting estimates of their bargaining power.\" Thirdly, bargaining may fail due to the states' inability to make credible commitments.\n\nWithin the rationalist tradition, some theorists have suggested that individuals engaged in war suffer a normal level of cognitive bias, but are still \"as rational as you and me\". According to philosopher Iain King, \"Most instigators of conflict overrate their chances of success, while most participants underrate their chances of injury...\" King asserts that \"Most catastrophic military decisions are rooted in GroupThink\" which is faulty, but still rational.\n\nThe rationalist theory focused around bargaining is currently under debate. The Iraq War proved to be an anomaly that undercuts the validity of applying rationalist theory to some wars.\n\nThe statistical analysis of war was pioneered by Lewis Fry Richardson following World War I. More recent databases of wars and armed conflict have been assembled by the Correlates of War Project, Peter Brecke and the Uppsala Conflict Data Program.\n\nThe following subsections consider causes of war from system, societal, and individual levels of analysis. This kind of division was first proposed by Kenneth Waltz in \"Man, the State, and War\" and has been often used by political scientists since then.\n\nThere are several different international relations theory schools. Supporters of realism in international relations argue that the motivation of states is the quest for security, and conflicts can arise from the inability to distinguish defense from offense, which is called the security dilemma.\n\nWithin the realist school as represented by scholars such as Henry Kissinger and Hans Morgenthau, and the neorealist school represented by scholars such as Kenneth Waltz and John Mearsheimer, two main sub-theories are:\nThe two theories are not mutually exclusive and may be used to explain disparate events according to the circumstance.\n\nLiberalism as it relates to international relations emphasizes factors such as trade, and its role in disincentivizing conflict which will damage economic relations. Realists respond that military force may sometimes be at least as effective as trade at achieving economic benefits, especially historically if not as much today. Furthermore, trade relations which result in a high level of dependency may escalate tensions and lead to conflict. Empirical data on the relationship of trade to peace are mixed, and moreover, some evidence suggests countries at war don't necessarily trade less with each other.\n\n\nThese theories suggest differences in people's personalities, decision-making, emotions, belief systems, and biases are important in determining whether conflicts get out of hand. For instance, it has been proposed that conflict is modulated by bounded rationality and various cognitive biases, such as prospect theory.\n\nThe morality of war has been the subject of debate for thousands of years.\n\nThe two principal aspects of ethics in war, according to the just war theory, are \"jus ad bellum\" and \"Jus in bello\".\n\n\"Jus ad bellum\" (right to war), dictates which unfriendly acts and circumstances justify a proper authority in declaring war on another nation. There are six main criteria for the declaration of a just war: first, any just war must be declared by a lawful authority; second, it must be a just and righteous cause, with sufficient gravity to merit large-scale violence; third, the just belligerent must have rightful intentions – namely, that they seek to advance good and curtail evil; fourth, a just belligerent must have a reasonable chance of success; fifth, the war must be a last resort; and sixth, the ends being sought must be proportional to means being used.\n\n\"Jus in bello\" (right in war), is the set of ethical rules when conducting war. The two main principles are proportionality and discrimination. Proportionality regards how much force is necessary and morally appropriate to the ends being sought and the injustice suffered. The principle of discrimination determines who are the legitimate targets in a war, and specifically makes a separation between combatants, who it is permissible to kill, and non-combatants, who it is not. Failure to follow these rules can result in the loss of legitimacy for the just-war-belligerent.\n\nFascism, and the ideals it encompasses, such as Pragmatism, racism, and social Darwinism, hold that violence is good. Pragmatism holds that war and violence can be good if it serves the ends of the people, without regard for universal morality. Racism holds that violence is good so that a master race can be established, or to purge an inferior race from the earth, or both. Social Darwinism asserts that violence is sometimes necessary to weed the unfit from society so civilization can flourish. These are broad archetypes for the general position that the ends justify the means. Lewis Coser, U.S. conflict theorist and sociologist, argued conflict provides a function and a process whereby a succession of new equilibriums are created. Thus, the struggle of opposing forces, rather than being disruptive, may be a means of balancing and maintaining a social structure or society.\n\n\nGeneral reference\nWar-related lists\n"}
{"id": "30078580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30078580", "title": "William Bruce (Canadian politician)", "text": "William Bruce (Canadian politician)\n\nWilliam Bruce (died September 20, 1838) was a physician and political figure in Upper Canada. He represented Stormont in the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada from 1834 to 1836.\n\nHe was born in Upper Canada, the son of William Bruce and Mary Alguire. Bruce was educated by John Strachan in Cornwall and went on to study medicine. He lived in Cornwall. Bruce served in the Stormont militia during the War of 1812, later reaching the rank of lieutenant. He was named a justice of the peace for the Eastern District in 1833 and was appointed coroner in 1835. He died in Cornwall.\n"}
