{"id": "55216854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55216854", "title": "Abra Amedomé", "text": "Abra Amedomé\n\nAbra Amedomé was a Togolese politician.\n\nTrained as a pharmacist in France, Amedome returned to Togo and became a highly successful businesswoman. She took a leading role in the national ruling party, and in 1975 became president of the Union National des Femmes Togolaise. In 1979 she became minister of social affairs and women's production, continuing in this role until 1983. She was one of six women elected to the Parliament of Togo in 1979; the others were Cheffi Meatchi, Kossiwa Monsila, Essohana Péré, Zinabou Touré, and Adjoavi Trenou.\n"}
{"id": "18534749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18534749", "title": "Advanced Life Support in Obstetrics", "text": "Advanced Life Support in Obstetrics\n\nALSO aims to decrease morbidity and mortality for both the mother and baby. ALSO does this by incorporating both didactic and practical hands on workstations with lifelike mannequins. Topics include assisted vaginal delivery, Doppler fetal monitoring, fetal dystocias, neonatal resuscitation, management premature labor, management of postpartum hemorrhage, along with forceps and vacuum-assisted delivery. Participants must pass a written test as well as a practical hands-on case management of a birth (mega-delivery) incorporating many elements learned throughout the course.\n\nALSO helps serve the same function as advanced trauma life support (ATLS) and advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) to help keep physicians who work with rural or underserved populations up to date on evidence-based medicine and curriculum.\n"}
{"id": "4065723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4065723", "title": "AmfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research", "text": "AmfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research\n\nThe Foundation for AIDS Research (AmfAR) is an international nonprofit organization dedicated to the support of AIDS research, HIV prevention, treatment education, and the advocacy of AIDS-related public policy. \n\namfAR is a tax-exempt corporation under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3) and operates as an independent nonprofit with worldwide initiatives. amfAR was formed in New York City in September 1985 by Dr. Mathilde Krim, along with physician Dr. Joseph Sonnabend and activist Michael Callen. The organization originally began in April 1983 as the Krim-founded AIDS Medical Foundation (AMF), which sought to lessen the stigma surrounding HIV/AIDS diagnoses, as well as to increase funding to the cause. The name change came as a result of the AMF's merge with the California-based National AIDS Research Foundation, which sought to actively engage in HIV-related drug development. What resulted was a foundation that prioritized both research and development as well as policy influence. This foundation was one of the first of its kind to embody both aspects of healthcare.\n\namfAR currently has three headquarters, located in New York City; Washington D.C.; and Bangkok, Thailand.amfAR spurs research and development through providing grants and fellowships to organizations, such as the Family Institute of Health, and individuals through the Mathilde Krim Fellowships in Basic Biomedical Research. amfAR has provided over 3,300 grants to research teams across the world and has invested over $400 million to research aiming to effectively treat HIV and AIDS related illness. amfAR's funds historically have gone to funding research, and as a result have helped pioneer community-based clinical research trials in the 1980s, as well as the involvement of AIDS patients in the drug approval process (\"see also: Denver Principles\"). Changes in leadership have marked changes in focus, resulting in shifts from public health outreach (needle exchange program pushes) to public education (the amfAR AIDS Handbook) to international research and outreach.\n\namfAR has embarked on various national and international campaigns to spur AIDS/HIV research, create a dialogue and decrease stigma surrounding the disease. Through TREAT Asia and GMT, amfAR took international roots and began funding research and outreach on all inhabited continents. National initiatives have included the Countdown to a Cure for AIDS. The Institute for HIV Cures Research and amfAR Research Consortium on HIV Eradication (ARCHE) were both created to aid this countdown, both to help fund research as well as provide a facility at which those researcher can work. To supplement the funding of these initiatives, amfAR is funded through sources like stock donations and their annual galas, which represent the majority of their source of funding.\n\nAfter Kenneth Cole stepped down as chairman, he was replaced by William H. Roedy. The current CEO Kevin Robert Frost joined amfAR in 1994 and became CEO in 2004. Together they lead 9 members of the Management Team, 25 Board of Trustees members and over 100 advisors to both their scientific and political platforms.\n\nCharity Watch rates Foundation for AIDS Research a \"A-\" grade.\n\nCharity Navigator rates amfAR a four-star charity.\n\nIn the early 1980s, a group of researchers and scientists including Mathilde Krim, Ph.D., then a researcher at New York's Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, formed an informal study group to investigate the condition that came to be known as AIDS. In 1983, Dr. Krim, Dr. Joseph Sonnabend, Michael Callen, and several others launched the New York-based AIDS Medical Foundation. In Los Angeles, Dr. Michael S. Gottlieb and amfAR Founding National Chairman Dame Elizabeth Taylor spearheaded the creation of the National AIDS Research Foundation. The two organizations merged in September 1985 to become \"american foundation for AIDS Research\" (amfAR). The merged organization was launched with a $250,000 contribution from Rock Hudson shortly before his AIDS-related death in October 1985.\n\nKrim's achievements during her time as the head of amfAR involved increased public education and direct political action. Primarily, Krim spearheaded the publishing of amfAR's first HIV/AIDS Treatment Directory, which provides medical professionals updated information on the treatment of HIV/AIDS, as well as clinical trials that People with AIDS (PWAs) can participate in. The publishing of this directory continued for 11 volumes until the year 2001. Following the increased involvement of AIDS activists and patients with the drug approval process, Krim (along with Elizabeth Taylor) testified before the National Institute of Health and Congress on the importance of clinical trials within community settings. These testimonies and lobbying efforts by Krim led to the first Adult AIDS Clinical Trials Group, which allowed people with AIDS and HIV to actively take part in the testing needed to approve AIDS drugs. Krim further shaped the structure of amfAR's fellowships, as she impelled the first grant of money to Peter Piot for his landmark study on female-to-male AIDS transmission in Kenya.“They felt that this was a disease that resulted from a sleazy lifestyle, drugs or kinky sex — that certain people had learned their lesson and it served them right,” Dr. Krim told The New York Times Magazine in 1988. “That was the attitude, even on the part of respectable foundations that are supposed to be concerned about human welfare.”One of Krim's final projects was her push for needle exchange programs in the face of mass stigma toward IV-drug users. Amid the 1980s \"War on Drugs,\" Krim's thoughts on sterile needle exchange is reflected in a quote, saying, \"It was a brilliant idea. It would work—the drug users would use the clean needles—and it would be inexpensive.” Krim worked with the Outside In needle exchange program in Portland, Oregon in 1989, and funded trials of needle exchange programs in Tacoma, Washington between 1989-1991. amfAR used the results of these studies, as well as a study in New Haven, CT to compile a report with the National Academy of Science which concluded that syringe exchange programs were safe and effective. Before stepping down, Krim saw the international surge of amfAR, with the creation of initiatives such as TREAT Asia, and in 2004 the TREAT Asia HIV Observational Database (the only HIV database in Asia).\n\nIn 2005, Mathilde Krim stepped down as founding chair. According to amfAR, she served as CEO from 1990 through 2004, and is described as the \"heart and soul\" of the organization. Charles Kaiser described Krim as \"determined to prevent America from using AIDS to stigmatize homosexuals\" in his book \"The Gay Metropolis: The Landmark History of Gay Life in America\". She was widely viewed as someone who fought on the front lines against prejudices against many people with AIDS. Apart from aiding research for life saving drugs, Krim was equally a proponent of reshaping public opinion, as noted by the New York Times tributes to her and those who interacted with her.\n\nThe year after Krim stepped down in 2004, the CDC reported that 1,000,000 Americans were living with HIV/AIDS. In an effort to reduce the stigma surrounding HIV/AIDS, amfAR's new chairman Kenneth Cole led amfAR to partner with Viacom Inc. and the Kaiser Family Foundation to launch an initiative called KNOW HIV/AIDS. This program funded an AIDS awareness campaign titled, \"We All Have AIDS,\" which marked a more controversial tone in amfAR's new public strategy. In line with the launching of program initiatives, amfAR under Kenneth Cole launched the TREAT Asia pediatric network and the MSM initiative, which was a global effort to help educate, treat and prevent HIV/AIDS in men who have sex with men.\n\nIn honor of its founding chair, amfAR launched the Mathilde Krim Fellowship in Basic Biomedical Research in 2008. The goal of this fellowship is to spur young and independent research groups who are actively searching for HIV/AIDS medical advancements. This grant has spurred discoveries such as the first recorded birth of new HIV virus particles by Dr. Nolwenn Jouvenet, as well as other developments at the pinnacle of HIV research. Other recipients of the Mathilde Krim Fellowship such as Bing Chen and Rosa Cardoso have made discoveries that have been central to the modern understanding of the HIV virus.\n\nAfter Cole stepped down as chairman due to a fraud investigation surrounding money diversion, he was replaced by William H. Roedy. The current CEO Kevin Robert Frost joined amfAR in 1994 and became CEO in 2004. Together they lead 9 members of the Management Team, 25 Board of Trustees members and over 100 advisors to both their scientific and political platforms.\n\namfAR's Sheldon W. Andelson Public Policy Office is located in Washington D.C., and is where many Rosenfield public policy fellows and employees work, as well as its management team of CEO and Board of Trustees. amfAR's original headquarters as well as their largest operations facilities is in New York City.\n\nIn 2015 amfAR announced a collaboration with the University of California San Francisco, Medical School to create their first Institute for HIV Cures Research. This facility works to foster research and was founded with the goal of finding a cure to AIDS by the year 2020. The leaders of the institute are Paul Volberding, MD who is the head of the UCSF AIDS Research Institute; Satish Pillai, PhD who part of the Blood Systems Institute as well as Warner Greene, MD, PhD, who helps direct the program. To remark on the progress that the institute had been making since its foundation, Dr. Volberding told CBS News in 2016:\"To see the pace from the days that we could do very little other than watch our patients die to finding the first treatments and then working hard to make those treatments better to where we are now has been remarkable. We have a lot of different options of three or four drug combinations put together in a single pill that a person takes once a day. It's remarkably easier than it used to be.\"\n\namfAR established its first international headquarters in Klongtoey, Bangkok, Thailand in 2001 to accompany its TREAT Asia network. The headquarters establishes closer contact to its 21 adult and 20 pediatric clinics in 12 countries across East Asia. The headquarters is internationally run as well, and works to streamline the logistics of projects in TREAT Asia. Former Chairman Kenneth Cole announced that the decision to move headquarters to Thailand was due to the ability to use the government's generous resources that have been committed to treating the crisis, and have effectively reduced the HIV prevalence in the country to under 1.1% due to quick mobilization and dedicated work.\n\nWith $20 million over five years, the amfAR Institute for HIV Cure Research will support the work of scientists at UC San Francisco (UCSF), the Gladstone Institute for Virology and Immunology (GIVI), the Blood Systems Research Institute (BSRI) and other academic partners who are at the forefront of the effort to cure AIDS, rather than simply treating it as a chronic disease.\n\namfAR has long intended to find a scientific cure to AIDS by the year 2020, and it created the Countdown to a Cure for AIDS in February 2014 as a way of speeding up this process. The \"Countdown\" is an investment initiative that intends to give $100 million to scientists working to find a cure. Most grants are given through applications at the University of California, San Francisco. By the year 2017, amfAR had granted $42 million to researchers, and it gave over $3.5 million in grants to six research teams under the amfAR Research Consortium on HIV Eradication (ARCHE), and later $1.2 million to AIDS innovators. By 2016, the Countdown, along with ARCHE had granted money to 139 principal investigators and key personnel across 16 states and 9 countries.\n\nthe amfAR Institute for HIV Cure Research at the University of California, San Francisco began in 2015 as the central facility to achieve their Countdown to a Cure for AIDS by 2020. It began from a $20 million grant to UCSF. Many researchers who receive fellowships and grants from amfAR and ARCHE work at the new facilities at UCSF. Under the Countdown to a Cure for AIDS, amfAR hosts an annual HIV Cure Summit, which aims to hear from voices in the research community on breakthroughs, as well as discuss discoveries that have motivated AIDS research, such as the breakthrough with the Berlin patient, who spurred the countdown in the first place.\n\nThe Therapeutics Research, Education and AIDS Training (TREAT) in Asia was founded in 2001 under the leadership of Mathilde Krim. The initiative aimed to create communication networks among Asian countries who are aiming to treat HIV, using Thailand as a model and a central headquarters for the operation. TREAT Asia is directed by Annette Sohn of the University of California San Francisco, who is a principal investigator alongside Matthew Law of the Kirby Institute at the University of South Wales. The two lead a team of 18 scientists to perform research in the area on topics such as mental healthcare access of people with HIV/AIDS in Asian countries and the effect of new drugs on children with HIV. \n\nThe TREAT Asia member countries are all partners of the US National Institutes of Health's International Epidemiological Databases to Evaluate AIDS (IeDEA) global cohort consortium. The countries include:\n\n\n\n\nThere are over 60 research facilities, mostly hospitals and healthcare providers, in these countries that communicate with amfAR's headquarters in Thailand. The foundation has said that they service around 84,000 people of all ages who are affected with HIV and AIDS who otherwise were not aided before the program began.\n\nThe GMT initiative is dedicated to providing HIV/AIDS assistance to men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender people (which they term as the collective 'gay men and transgender (GMT)'). Unlike TREAT Asia, the GMT Initiative is truly global, with recent work in regarding their mentoring model in Paraguay, Thailand, Tajikistan and Kenya and Ukraine. The GMT Initiative further aims to spur outreach to low-income individuals by providing the amfAR HIV Scholars Program with the Center for LGBT Health Research at the University of Pittsburgh. Scholarship recipients from 2015 include individuals from South Africa, Pakistan and Belize.\n\nThe GMT Initiative aims to provide mentorship training to MSM and transgender individuals in countries with low access to AIDS support. It created a mentoring model that empowers 'GMT' to connect with younger individuals with HIV/AIDS in spite of a potential homophobic and stigmatized environment in the low and middle income countries that they service.\n\nAs a 501(c)(3), amfAR files an annual 990 Form to the IRS, which is publicly accessible. The following information is garnered from their 2017 filing:\namfAR's largest source of revenue comes from its fundraising events, large portions of that money comes from one of its annual charity event held at the Hôtel du Cap-Eden-Roc in Antibes, France titled \"amfAR's Annual Cinema Against AIDS.\" The gala aims to raise money through auctioning items, as well as selling a limited number of tickets. Since the first amfAR gala, the charity has raised over $210 million to support AIDS research causes. The most recent gala held in Cannes raised around $20 million at its 2016 gala, which is a marked decrease from the over $25 million it raised in the same 2016 and 2017 events. It was speculated that this decrease in funding was due to both the absence of its largest donor Harvey Weinstein, as well as the scandal surrounding the ousting of Kenneth Cole.\n\nCelebrities frequently donate items to be auctioned off for the foundation, and past donors have included Uma Thurman, Karlie Kloss and Milla Jovovich, among others. The 25th annual gala embraced the #MeToo movement, and was chaired by 25 prominent women on stage and screen, namely: Alessandra Ambrosio, Poppy Delevigne, Linda Evangelista, Sylvia Fendi, Aileen Getty, Kate Hudson, Scarlett Johansson, Milla Jovovich, Heidi Klum, Daphna Krim (daughter of Mathilde Krim), Karolina Kurkova, Sienna Miller, Angela Missoni, Mary Parent, Katy Perry, Natasha Poly, Aishwarya Rai, Vanessa Redgrave, Joely Richardson, Carine Roitfeld, Caroline Scheufele, Irina Shayk, Lara Stone, Donatella Versace, and Michelle Yeoh. Past items auctioned have included numerous photographs by Andy Warhol, Annie Leibovitz portrait sessions, stays in fashion moguls and celebrity houses and 53-karat diamond jewelry. Heidi Klum notably donated her Bentley S3 convertible to garner one of the highest bids at €200,000.\n\namfAR galas have been held in cities like New York City, Milan, Los Angeles, São Paulo and Hong Kong, each garnering anywhere from €2,000,000 to €13,000,000 to support amfAR's research.\n\namfAR welcomes donations in the forms of stocks and securities. Though they do not disclose the individual donors of stocks, they publish the figure of $1,295,049 on their 990 Form to represent the interest and amount they receive through donations of stock. Further fluctuations in losses through investment and payments of investment income are accounted through the Net Gain row, indicating a net gain of $139,479 following external investments and payments. \n\nKrim's original view on needle exchange was largely affected by exposure through visits to foundational needle exchange programs:On one visit, Mathilde met a clearly pregnant woman coming to exchange syringes. Mathilde was very upset. After the woman left the exchange, Mathilde spoke to the exchange worker. “That woman should be in treatment, not exchanging syringes.” “Yes,” the worker replied, “but the prenatal clinics do not accept drug addicts, and the drug abuse treatment programs do not accept pregnant women.”\n\n-Don C. Des Jarlais, Ph.D.After interactions like these, Krim began work with the Outside In needle exchange program in Portland, Oregon beginning in 1989; this program was a service program for youth who had run away. Led by Kathy Oliver, amfAR helped gain insurance support for the program, and later compiled a report that showed the effectiveness of the study: needle discard rates in Portland neighborhoods decreased as a result of the study.\n\nKrim later used amfAR's research funding apparatus to help David Purchase begin a needle and syringe exchange program in Tacoma, Washington. He used the money granted to analyze Tacoma's syringe exchange programs. Similarly to the results found in the Portland study, Purchase found that hepatitis B, C and HIV rates were much lower for users in Pierce County who exchanged their needles than those who did not. The study also found low HIV rates among women who use the exchange for IUD injections.\n\nThe first AIDS handbook was published in 1999 as an effort to give a \"comprehensive\" and \"concise\" description of HIV/AIDS and methods of prevention. This 496-page book was intended for the general public, as opposed to their \"HIV/AIDS Treatment Directory\" intended for medical professionals.This book was used in a study intended to see the effects of AIDS education on elementary education. The study found statistically significant increases in AIDS comprehension in students who were educated using the amfAR \"AIDS Handbook.\" The handbook stands as one of amfAR's attempts at public education for AIDS/HIV related topics.\n\nIn May 2015 amfAR released a report showing that increases in intellectual property rights of pharmaceutical countries would drive up the price of some drugs that are desperately needed in the developing world, namely countries who rely on affordable antiretroviral drugs. The group says that would hamper the global fight against AIDS (and other diseases) at an unsustainable rate. This report marked the first time that amfAR involved itself in economic policy that indirectly pertained to AIDS, and its rally against Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) reached national attention as a provision of the TPP that was traditionally seen to be benign.\n\nKenneth Cole served as the amfAR chairman for 14-years and as a board member for a total of 30-years. In 2015, following years of controversy, he stepped down and now has no involvement in the organization.\n\nAt amfAR's 22 annual benefit in Cannes, France in May 2015, Harvey Weinstein made a deal with amfAR chairman Kenneth Cole. The deal is as follows: Weinstein would auction off two items (one being a sitting with a famous fashion photographer and the second being tickets to a Hollywood film awards event) on the condition that $600,000 of the proceeds raised at the auction would be donated as a charitable gift to the American Repertory Theater. The reason for this contingent was that the American Repertory Theater promised Weinstein a $1.25 million reimbursement and a $500,000 charitable donation to the play \"Finding Neverland\", which Weinstein was producing at the theater, on the condition that third parties donate the same amount to the production.\n\nWhile the arrangement raised $309,669 for amfAR and was ruled \"legitimate and lawful\" by the law firm Gibson, Dunn & Cutcher, investigations and public outrage ensued surrounding the charity's financial integrity. A rift formed between Chairman Kenneth Cole and CEO Kevin Robert Frost, as evidenced by an email from Frost in 2015 saying, “Nothing about this deal feels right to me, and I believe we have not done due diligence to understand exactly what this money is being directed to or why amfAR is being used to facilitate these transfers.\" \n\nAmfAR's management initially refused, citing their longstanding policy against doing so, but Weinstein was persistent. He had apparently donated $2 million to ART on the condition that if he could raise more money from others before June 1, 2015, they would return the contribution. Cole and Weinstein reportedly agreed that ART and AmfAR would split any money from the lots up to $1.2 million evenly, and all money above that amount would be exclusively AmfAR's. Except for a last-second insert attributed to Cole noting that ART would get some of the money from one of the lots, a fashion shoot with Mario Testino, there was nothing else to indicate to bidders where their money was going. Cole told \"Vanity Fair\" later that he had always felt bullied by Weinstein, and the insert was a small act of resistance.\n\nWeinstein demanded AmFAR repay him immediately instead of waiting for the money for the lots to come in. In early 2016 the organization's board retained an attorney to investigate the transaction, who concluded that Weinstein's failure to disclose all relevant information had exposed AmfAR to material risks to its reputation if the deal had turned out to be illegal. The report divided the board, with several members resigning over what they saw as Cole's failures. After Weinstein found out that some of the people the lawyer talked to had shared information about his rumored history of sexual misconduct, information that became public knowledge in September 2017, Weinstein demanded that board members who had read the report sign non-disclosure agreements, leading to more resignations.\n\nIn April 2017, 19 members of the Board of Trustees contacted the Attorney General to explain that Cole had proceeded with this deal in spite of the objections of the wider executive management team, as confirmed by their spokesperson Steven Goldberg. Following legal struggles surrounding the benefit to private investors of charitable donations, Weinstein pushed amfAR to sign nondisclosure agreements that indicated no wrongdoing and no further probing. As a result, four members (Mervyn Silverman, Vincent Roberti, Arlen Andelson and Jonathan Canno) refused to sign and went to petition the Attorney General on the impropriety of Kenneth Cole. In that time two other board members had resigned.\n\nOn November 13, NBC News obtained a letter signed by 60 gay rights community members calling for his resignation. This letter was signed by Greg Louganis, an Olympic diver; Larry Kramer, playwright and activist and amfAR contributor Peter Staley, among others. As a result of the scandal, Kenneth Cole stepped down as chairman after a 14-year tenure. Cole initially couched his decision to step down, along with four other board members, as the result of term limits being imposed by the amfAR Board of Trustees with his support. Later, however, the attorney general's charity bureau sent a letter to the board on 2 February, which exposed a proposal by Cole which allowed him to maintain his role as chairman in spite of new term limits. The attorney general's office sent a second letter on 6 February that mandated the board update its term limits and end Cole's tenure. The attorney general allowed him to stay as a non-voting member for six months while his replacement is determined. With the calls for resignation by many on the Board of Trustees, and a mandate from New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's office, Cole announced his decision to step down at an amfAR gala on Wednesday, February 7, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27370252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27370252", "title": "Biemond syndrome", "text": "Biemond syndrome\n\nThe Bardet–Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a ciliopathic human genetic disorder that produces many effects and affects many body systems. It is characterized principally by obesity, retinitis pigmentosa, polydactyly, hypogonadism, and kidney failure in some cases. Historically, mental retardation has been considered a principal symptom but is now not regarded as such.\n\nThe symptoms of Bardet-Biedl disorder vary among people within a family. Affected people won't have the greater part of the indications talked about underneath. Moreover, the seriousness of particular indications may shift enormously also. The effects of this disorder include cone-rod dystrophy, postaxial polydactyly, truncal obesity, kidney abnormalities and learning difficulties.\n"}
{"id": "1375521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1375521", "title": "Brian Morris (biologist)", "text": "Brian Morris (biologist)\n\nBrian James Morris (born 14 July 1950) is a professor emeritus of molecular medical sciences at the University of Sydney, Australia.\n\nBrian Morris grew up in Adelaide, South Australia, where he graduated from the University of Adelaide in 1972. He then completed his PhD at Monash University and the University of Melbourne in 1975. From 1975–1978 he did postdoctoral research at the University of Missouri, and the University of California, San Francisco, first as a CJ Martin fellow, and then as an Advanced Fellow of the American Heart Association. He was then appointed as an academic at the University of Sydney in 1978, was appointed a professor in 1999, and was appointed Professor Emeritus in 2013. He retired in 2014 and the Bosch Institute of Medical Research took over his lab space.\n\nMorris studied the Renin–angiotensin system (RAS) for most of his career. His interest in RAS began during his undergraduate studies, when he worked for a while in the laboratory where Eugenie Lumbers had just found early clues to the existence of prorenin (the protein precursor of renin) during her PhD work. He remain interested in the field, and had the good fortune to move to the University of California, San Francisco in the mid-1970s, a center for the development of the tools of biotechnology and molecular cloning. He joined others in applying those tools to RAS, and was among the pioneers is isolating the gene for renin itself, along with the prorenin and kallikrein genes, and the cardiac myosin heavy chain gene. \n\nHe and his team were among first to elucidate the biosynthetic pathway of renin, as well as key molecular mechanisms in renin's transcriptional and posttranscriptional control. Taking that work further, he helped pioneer the field of genetic variation in hypertension.\n\nMorris strongly supported male circumcision throughout his career, with around a quarter of his publications being on that topic, and joining the public debate. He has likened those who oppose circumcision to anti-vaccine advocates. He has criticised the circumcision policies of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians through the years.\n\nIn the 2000s, he began to study the genetics of longevity, including the roles of FOXO3 and the sirtuins.\n\nHe was awarded the Royal Society of New South Wales' Edgeworth David Medal in 1985 and in 1993 the University of Sydney awarded him a DSc. In 2003 he was elected as an Honorary Fellow of the American Heart Association Council for High Blood Pressure Research. In 2010 he gave the Lewis K. Dahl Memorial lecture, an award sponsored by the Council for High Blood Pressure Research in association with the American Heart Association. In 2014 the AHA awarded him the Irvine Page--Alva Bradley Lifetime Achievement Award. He was made a Member of the Order of Australia in the Queens Birthday Honours Awards in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "10881303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10881303", "title": "C. Arden Pope", "text": "C. Arden Pope\n\nC. Arden Pope III (born c. 1954) is an American professor of economics at Brigham Young University and one of the world's foremost experts in environmental science. He received his B.S. from Brigham Young University (BYU) in 1978 and his Ph.D. in Economics and statistics from Iowa State University in 1981. Although his research includes many papers on topics in the fields in which he was trained—environmental economics, resource economics, and agricultural economics—he is better known for his cross-disciplinary work in environmental epidemiology and public health. He is world-renowned for his seminal work on the effects of particulate air pollution on mortality and health. His articles have helped establish the connection between air pollution and health problems, including cancer, cardiovascular, and pulmonary disease. These research findings have influenced environmental policy in the United States and Europe, contributing to the establishment of emission standards for particulate matter pollution.\n\nEarly in Pope's career he published a paper that made him an academic cornerstone of environmental science and policy called \"Respiratory hospital admissions associated with PM10 pollution in Utah, Salt Lake, and Cache Valleys\". In Utah Valley the Geneva Steel Mill generated large quantities of particulate matter which is a byproduct of fossil fuel consumption. The mill was shut down temporarily. Pope compiled hospital admissions data for the time before, during, and after the temporary closing of the mill and was the first to convincingly show the immediate health harms associated with atmospheric particulate matter. Asthma, mortality, and respiratory admissions generally were twice as high while the plant was operating than the year in which it was closed. Utah made a particularly suitable natural experiment as the various valleys included in the study trap pollution in the winter months when temperature inversions stifle the escape of pollution. His abstract states:\n\nPope came under hostile political pressure and his findings became a firestorm of controversy. Intense scrutiny revealed that his results were accurate. In 2004 Pope was awarded the Utah Governor's Medal in Science and Technology. In 2006 Dr. Pope was recognized as BYU's distinguished faculty through reception of the Karl G. Maeser award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52355904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355904", "title": "Cannabis in Cambodia", "text": "Cannabis in Cambodia\n\nCannabis in Cambodia is illegal. This prohibition is enforced opportunistically. Many \"Happy\" restaurants located in Phnom Penh, Siem Reap and Sihanoukville publicly offer food cooked with marijuana, or as a side garnish.\n\nCannabis was probably introduced to Southeast Asia around the 16th century, and used medicinally and in cuisine. Cannabis has been traditionally grown in Cambodia and is a common ingredient in food. By 1961 in compliance with the Single Convention on Narcotics treaty it was technically made illegal but the law was unenforced, and marijuana was openly sold. In 1992 during a United Nations intervention the drug was specifically made illegal but still the law remained unenforced.\n\nAlthough it is illegal, police do not harass cannabis users and businesses openly sell cannabis products to the public. As of 2009, the UNODC stated that cannabis production cultivation had \"ceased to be a major concern\" in Cambodia.\n\nMarijuana is openly sold in markets, restaurants, and bars. \"Happy pizza\" is the term for cannabis infused pizza frequently sold in restaurants across Cambodia. Among Cambodians it is viewed as something older people use and is not popular with the youth. In tourist heavy areas \"happy pizza\" is more commonly sold due to its popularity among travelers.\n"}
{"id": "43209744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43209744", "title": "Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol", "text": "Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol\n\nThe Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol, commonly abbreviated as CIWA or CIWA-Ar (revised version), is a ten item scale used in the assessment and management of alcohol withdrawal. Each item on the scale is scored independently, and the summation of the scores yields an aggregate value that correlates to the severity of alcohol withdrawal, with ranges of scores designed to prompt specific management decisions such as the administration of benzodiazepines. The maximum score is 67; Mild alcohol withdrawal is defined with a score less than or equal to 15, moderate with scores of 16 to 20, and severe with any score greater than 20. \nThe ten items evaluated on the scale are common symptoms and signs of alcohol withdrawal, and are as follows: \nAll items are scored from 0–7, with the exception of the orientation category, scored from 0–4. The CIWA scale is validated and has high inter-rater reliability. A randomized, double blind trial published in \"JAMA\" in 1994 showed that management for alcohol withdrawal that was guided by the CIWA scale resulted in decreased treatment duration and total use of benzodiazepines. The goal of the CIWA scale is to provide an efficient and objective means of assessing alcohol withdrawal. Studies have shown that use of the scale in management of alcohol withdrawal leads to decreased frequency of over-sedation with benzodiazepines in patients with milder alcohol withdrawal than would otherwise be detected without use of the scale, and decreased frequency of under-treatment in patients with greater severity of withdrawal than would otherwise be determined without the scale.\n\nThe CIWA-Ar is actually a shortened, yet improved version of the CIWA, geared towards objectifying alcohol withdrawal symptom severity. It retains validity, usefulness and reliability between raters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "296457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296457", "title": "Conjoint analysis", "text": "Conjoint analysis\n\nConjoint analysis is a survey-based statistical technique used in market research that helps determine how people value different attributes (feature, function, benefits) that make up an individual product or service.\n\nThe objective of conjoint analysis is to determine what combination of a limited number of attributes is most influential on respondent choice or decision making. A controlled set of potential products or services is shown to survey respondents and by analyzing how they make preferences between these products, the implicit valuation of the individual elements making up the product or service can be determined. These implicit valuations (utilities or part-worths) can be used to create market models that estimate market share, revenue and even profitability of new designs.\n\nConjoint originated in mathematical psychology and was developed by marketing professor Paul E. Green at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Other prominent conjoint analysis pioneers include professor V. \"Seenu\" Srinivasan of Stanford University who developed a linear programming (LINMAP) procedure for rank ordered data as well as a self-explicated approach, Richard Johnson who developed the Adaptive Conjoint Analysis technique in the 1980s and Jordan Louviere (University of Iowa) who invented and developed choice-based approaches to conjoint analysis and related techniques such as best–worst scaling.\n\nToday it is used in many of the social sciences and applied sciences including marketing, product management, and operations research. It is used frequently in testing customer acceptance of new product designs, in assessing the appeal of advertisements and in service design. It has been used in product positioning, but there are some who raise problems with this application of conjoint analysis.\n\nConjoint analysis techniques may also be referred to as multiattribute compositional modelling, discrete choice modelling, or stated preference research, and is part of a broader set of trade-off analysis tools used for systematic analysis of decisions. These tools include Brand-Price Trade-Off, Simalto, and mathematical approaches such as AHP, evolutionary algorithms or rule-developing experimentation.\n\nA product or service area is described in terms of a number of attributes. For example, a television may have attributes of screen size, screen format, brand, price and so on. Each attribute can then be broken down into a number of levels. For instance, levels for screen format may be LED, LCD, or Plasma.\n\nRespondents would be shown a set of products, prototypes, mock-ups, or pictures created from a combination of levels from all or some of the constituent attributes and asked to choose from, rank or rate the products they are shown. Each example is similar enough that consumers will see them as close substitutes, but dissimilar enough that respondents can clearly determine a preference. Each example is composed of a unique combination of product features. The data may consist of individual ratings, rank orders, or preferences among alternative combinations.\n\nAs the number of combinations of attributes and levels increases the number of potential profiles increases exponentially. Consequently, fractional factorial design is commonly used to reduce the number of profiles that have to be evaluated, while ensuring enough data are available for statistical analysis, resulting in a carefully controlled set of \"profiles\" for the respondent to consider.\n\nThe earliest forms of conjoint analysis were what are known as Full Profile studies, in which a small set of attributes (typically 4 to 5) are used to create profiles that are shown to respondents, often on individual cards. Respondents then rank or rate these profiles. Using relatively simple dummy variable regression analysis the implicit utilities for the levels can be calculated. Two drawbacks were seen in these early designs.\n\nFirstly, the number of attributes in use was heavily restricted. With large numbers of attributes, the consideration task for respondents becomes too large and even with fractional factorial designs the number of profiles for evaluation can increase rapidly. In order to use more attributes (up to 30), hybrid conjoint techniques were developed. The main alternative was to do some form of self-explication (rating of separate components) before the conjoint tasks and some form of adaptive computer-aided choice over the profiles to be shown.\n\nThe second drawback was that the task itself was unrealistic and did not link directly to behavioural theory. In real-life situations, the task would be some form of actual choice between alternatives rather than the more artificial ranking and rating originally used. Jordan Louviere pioneered an approach that used only a choice task which became the basis of choice-based conjoint analysis and discrete choice analysis. This stated preference research is linked to econometric modeling and can be linked to revealed preference where choice models are calibrated on the basis of real rather than survey data. Originally choice-based conjoint analysis was unable to provide individual level utilities as it aggregated choices across a market. This made it unsuitable for market segmentation studies. With newer hierarchical Bayesian analysis techniques, individual level utilities can be imputed back to provide individual level data.\n\nData for conjoint analysis are most commonly gathered through a market research survey, although conjoint analysis can also be applied to a carefully designed configurator or data from an appropriately designed test market experiment. Market research rules of thumb apply with regard to statistical sample size and accuracy when designing conjoint analysis interviews.\n\nThe length of the research questionnaire depends on the number of attributes to be assessed and the method of conjoint analysis in use. A typical adaptive conjoint questionnaire with 20-25 attributes may take more than 30 minutes to complete. Choice based conjoint, by using a smaller profile set distributed across the sample as a whole may be completed in less than 15 minutes. Choice exercises may be displayed as a store front type layout or in some other simulated shopping environment.\n\nDepending on the type of model, different econometric and statistical methods can be used to estimate utility functions. These utility functions indicate the perceived value of the feature and how sensitive consumer perceptions and preferences are to changes in product features. The actual estimation procedure will depend on the design of the task and profiles for respondents, in the type of specification, and the scale of measure for preferences (it can be ratio, ranking, choice) which can have a limited range or not. For rated full profile tasks, linear regression may be appropriate, for choice based tasks, maximum likelihood estimation, usually with logistic regression are typically used. The original methods were monotonic analysis of variance or linear programming techniques, but contemporary marketing research practice has shifted towards choice-based models using multinomial logit, mixed versions of this model, and other refinements. Bayesian estimators are also very popular. Hierarchical Bayesian procedures are nowadays relatively popular as well.\n\n\n\nOne practical application of conjoint analysis in business analysis is given by the following example: A real estate developer is interested in building a high rise apartment complex near an urban Ivy League university. To ensure the success of the project, a market research firm is hired to conduct focus groups with current students. Students are segmented by academic year (freshman, upper classmen, graduate studies) and amount of financial aid received. Study participants are given a series of index cards. Each card has 6 attributes to describe the potential building project (proximity to campus, cost, telecommunication packages, laundry options, floor plans, and security features offered). The estimated cost to construct the building described on each card is equivalent. Participants are asked to order the cards from least to most appealing. This forced ranking exercise will indirectly reveal the participants' priorities and preferences. Multi-variate regression analysis may be used to determine the strength of preferences across target market segments.\n\nFederal courts in the United States have allowed expert witnesses to use conjoint analysis to support their opinions on the damages that an infringer of a patent should pay to compensate the patent holder for violating its rights. Nonetheless, legal scholars have noted that the Federal Circuit's jurisprudence on the use of conjoint analysis in patent-damages calculations remains in a formative stage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8005", "title": "Dentistry", "text": "Dentistry\n\nDentistry is a branch of medicine that consists of the study, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of diseases, disorders, and conditions of the oral cavity, commonly in the dentition but also the oral mucosa, and of adjacent and related structures and tissues, particularly in the maxillofacial (jaw and facial) area. Although primarily associated with teeth among the general public, the field of dentistry or dental medicine is not limited to teeth but includes other aspects of the craniofacial complex including the temporomandibular joint and other supporting, muscular, lymphatic, nervous, vascular, and anatomical structures. \n\nDentistry is often also understood to subsume the now largely defunct medical specialty of stomatology (the study of the mouth and its disorders and diseases) for which reason the two terms are used interchangeably in certain regions.\n\nDental treatments are carried out by a dental team, which often consists of a dentist and dental auxiliaries (dental assistants, dental hygienists, dental technicians, as well as dental therapists). Most dentists either work in private practices (primary care), dental hospitals or (secondary care) institutions (prisons, armed forces bases, etc.).\n\nThe history of dentistry is almost as ancient as the history of humanity and civilization with the earliest evidence dating from 7000 BC. Remains from the early Harappan periods of the Indus Valley Civilization ( BC) show evidence of teeth having been drilled dating back 9,000 years. It is thought that dental surgery was the first specialization from medicine.\n\nThe term dentistry comes from \"dentist\", which comes from French \"dentiste\", which comes from the French and Latin words for tooth. The term for the associated scientific study of teeth is odontology (from Ancient Greek ὀδούς (odoús, \"tooth\")) – the study of the structure, development, and abnormalities of the teeth.\n\nDentistry usually encompasses practices related to the oral cavity. According to the World Health Organization, oral diseases are major public health problems due to their high incidence and prevalence across the globe, with the disadvantaged affected more than other socio-economic groups.\n\nThe majority of dental treatments are carried out to prevent or treat the two most common oral diseases which are dental caries (tooth decay) and periodontal disease (gum disease or pyorrhea). Common treatments involve the restoration of teeth, extraction or surgical removal of teeth, scaling and root planing and endodontic root canal treatment.\n\nAll dentists in the United States undergo at least three years of undergraduate studies, but nearly all complete a bachelor's degree. This schooling is followed by four years of dental school to qualify as a \"Doctor of Dental Surgery\" (DDS) or \"Doctor of Dental Medicine\" (DMD). Dentists need to complete additional qualifications or continuing education to carry out more complex treatments such as sedation, oral and maxillofacial surgery, and dental implants.\n\nBy nature of their general training they can carry out the majority of dental treatments such as restorative (fillings, crowns, bridges), prosthetic (dentures), endodontic (root canal) therapy, periodontal (gum) therapy, and extraction of teeth, as well as performing examinations, radiographs (x-rays), and diagnosis. Dentists can also prescribe medications such as antibiotics, sedatives, and any other drugs used in patient management.\n\nDentists also encourage prevention of oral diseases through proper hygiene and regular, twice yearly, checkups for professional cleaning and evaluation. Oral infections and inflammations may affect overall health and conditions in the oral cavity may be indicative of systemic diseases, such as osteoporosis, diabetes, celiac disease or cancer. Many studies have also shown that gum disease is associated with an increased risk of diabetes, heart disease, and preterm birth. The concept that oral health can affect systemic health and disease is referred to as \"oral-systemic health\".\n\nDr. John M. Harris started the world's first dental school in Bainbridge, Ohio, and helped to establish dentistry as a health profession. It opened on 21 February 1828, and today is a dental museum. The first dental college, Baltimore College of Dental Surgery, opened in Baltimore, Maryland, US in 1840. The second in the United States was the Philadelphia College of Dental Surgery, established in 1852. In 1907, Temple University accepted a bid to incorporate the school.\n\nStudies show that dentists that graduated from different countries, or even from different dental schools in one country, may make different clinical decisions for the same clinical condition. For example, dentists that graduated from Israeli dental schools may recommend the removal of asymptomatic impacted third molar (wisdom teeth) more often than dentists that graduated from Latin American or Eastern European dental schools.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the 1878 British Dentists Act and 1879 Dentists Register limited the title of \"dentist\" and \"dental surgeon\" to qualified and registered practitioners. However, others could legally describe themselves as \"dental experts\" or \"dental consultants\". The practice of dentistry in the United Kingdom became fully regulated with the 1921 Dentists Act, which required the registration of anyone practising dentistry. The British Dental Association, formed in 1880 with Sir John Tomes as president, played a major role in prosecuting dentists practising illegally. Dentists in the United Kingdom are now regulated by the General Dental Council.\n\nIn Korea, Taiwan, Japan, Finland, Sweden, Brazil, Chile, the United States, and Canada, a dentist is a healthcare professional qualified to practice dentistry after graduating with a degree of either Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) or Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD). This is equivalent to the Bachelor of Dental Surgery/Baccalaureus Dentalis Chirurgiae (BDS, BDent, BChD, BDSc) that is awarded in the UK and British Commonwealth countries. In most western countries, to become a qualified dentist one must usually complete at least four years of postgraduate study; within the European Union the education has to be at least five years. Dentists usually complete between five and eight years of post-secondary education before practising. Though not mandatory, many dentists choose to complete an internship or residency focusing on specific aspects of dental care after they have received their dental degree.\n\nSome dentists undertake further training after their initial degree in order to specialize. Exactly which subjects are recognized by dental registration bodies varies according to location. Examples include:\n\n\nTooth decay was low in pre-agricultural societies, the growth in farming society about 10,000 years ago correlated with an increase in tooth decay (cavities). An infected tooth from Italy partially cleaned with flint tools, between 13,820 and 14,160 years old, represents the oldest known dentistry, although a 2017 study suggests that 130,000 years ago the Neanderthals already used rudimentary dentistry tools. The Indus Valley Civilization (IVC) has yielded evidence of dentistry being practised as far back as 7000 BC. An IVC site in Mehrgarh indicates that this form of dentistry involved curing tooth related disorders with bow drills operated, perhaps, by skilled bead crafters. The reconstruction of this ancient form of dentistry showed that the methods used were reliable and effective. The earliest dental filling, made of beeswax, was discovered in Slovenia and dates from 6500 years ago. Dentistry was practiced in prehistoric Malta, as evidenced by a skull which had an abscess lanced from the root of a tooth dating back to around 2500 BC.\n\nAn ancient Sumerian text describes a \"tooth worm\" as the cause of dental caries. Evidence of this belief has also been found in ancient India, Egypt, Japan, and China. The legend of the worm is also found in the writings of Homer, and as late as the 14th century AD the surgeon Guy de Chauliac still promoted the belief that worms cause tooth decay.\n\nRecipes for the treatment of toothache, infections and loose teeth are spread throughout the Ebers Papyrus, Kahun Papyri, Brugsch Papyrus, and Hearst papyrus of Ancient Egypt. The Edwin Smith Papyrus, written in the 17th century BC but which may reflect previous manuscripts from as early as 3000 BC, discusses the treatment of dislocated or fractured jaws. In the 18th century BC, the Code of Hammurabi referenced dental extraction twice as it related to punishment. Examination of the remains of some ancient Egyptians and Greco-Romans reveals early attempts at dental prosthetics. However, it is possible the prosthetics were prepared after death for aesthetic reasons.\n\nAncient Greek scholars Hippocrates and Aristotle wrote about dentistry, including the eruption pattern of teeth, treating decayed teeth and gum disease, extracting teeth with forceps, and using wires to stabilize loose teeth and fractured jaws. Some say the first use of dental appliances or bridges comes from the Etruscans from as early as 700 BC. In ancient Egypt, Hesy-Ra is the first named \"dentist\" (greatest of the teeth). The Egyptians bound replacement teeth together with gold wire. Roman medical writer Cornelius Celsus wrote extensively of oral diseases as well as dental treatments such as narcotic-containing emollients and astringents. The earliest dental amalgams were first documented in a Tang Dynasty medical text written by the Chinese physician Su Kung in 659, and appeared in Germany in 1528.\n\nDuring the Islamic Golden Age Dentistry was discussed in several famous books of medicine such as The Canon in medicine written by Avicenna and Al-Tasreef by Al-Zahrawi who is considered the greatest surgeon of the Middle ages, Avicenna said that jaw fracture should be reduced according to the occlusal guidance of the teeth; this principle is still valid in modern times. while Al-Zahrawi made a lot of surgical tools that resemble the modern tools.\n\nHistorically, dental extractions have been used to treat a variety of illnesses. During the Middle Ages and throughout the 19th century, dentistry was not a profession in itself, and often dental procedures were performed by barbers or general physicians. Barbers usually limited their practice to extracting teeth which alleviated pain and associated chronic tooth infection. Instruments used for dental extractions date back several centuries. In the 14th century, Guy de Chauliac most probably invented the dental pelican (resembling a pelican's beak) which was used to perform dental extractions up until the late 18th century. The pelican was replaced by the dental key which, in turn, was replaced by modern forceps in the 19th century.\n\nThe first book focused solely on dentistry was the \"Artzney Buchlein\" in 1530, and the first dental textbook written in English was called \"Operator for the Teeth\" by Charles Allen in 1685.\n\nIn the United Kingdom there was no formal qualification for the providers of dental treatment until 1859 and it was only in 1921 that the practice of dentistry was limited to those who were professionally qualified. The Royal Commission on the National Health Service in 1979 reported that there were then more than twice as many registered dentists per 10,000 population in the UK than there were in 1921.\n\nIt was between 1650 and 1800 that the science of modern dentistry developed. The English physician Thomas Browne in his \"A Letter to a Friend\" ( pub. 1690) made an early dental observation with characteristic humour:\n\nThe French surgeon Pierre Fauchard became known as the \"father of modern dentistry\". Despite the limitations of the primitive surgical instruments during the late 17th and early 18th century, Fauchard was a highly skilled surgeon who made remarkable improvisations of dental instruments, often adapting tools from watchmakers, jewelers and even barbers, that he thought could be used in dentistry. He introduced dental fillings as treatment for dental cavities. He asserted that sugar derivate acids like tartaric acid were responsible for dental decay, and also suggested that tumors surrounding the teeth and in the gums could appear in the later stages of tooth decay.\n\nFauchard was the pioneer of dental prosthesis, and he discovered many methods to replace lost teeth. He suggested that substitutes could be made from carved blocks of ivory or bone. He also introduced dental braces, although they were initially made of gold, he discovered that the teeth position could be corrected as the teeth would follow the pattern of the wires. Waxed linen or silk threads were usually employed to fasten the braces. His contributions to the world of dental science consist primarily of his 1728 publication Le chirurgien dentiste or The Surgeon Dentist. The French text included \"basic oral anatomy and function, dental construction, and various operative and restorative techniques, and effectively separated dentistry from the wider category of surgery\".\n\nAfter Fauchard, the study of dentistry rapidly expanded. Two important books, \"Natural History of Human Teeth\" (1771) and \"Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Teeth\" (1778), were published by British surgeon John Hunter. In 1763 he entered into a period of collaboration with the London-based dentist James Spence. He began to theorise about the possibility of tooth transplants from one person to another. He realised that the chances of an (initially, at least) successful tooth transplant would be improved if the donor tooth was as fresh as possible and was matched for size with the recipient. These principles are still used in the transplantation of internal organs. Hunter conducted a series of pioneering operations, in which he attempted a tooth transplant. Although the donated teeth never properly bonded with the recipients' gums, one of Hunter's patients stated that he had three which lasted for six years, a remarkable achievement for the period.\n\nMajor advances were made in the 19th century, and dentistry evolved from a trade to a profession. The profession came under government regulation by the end of the 19th century. In the UK the Dentist Act was passed in 1878 and the British Dental Association formed in 1879. In the same year, Francis Brodie Imlach was the first ever dentist to be elected President of the Royal College of Surgeons (Edinburgh), raising dentistry onto a par with clinical surgery for the first time.\n\nLong term occupational noise exposure can contribute to permanent hearing loss, which is referred to as noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) and tinnitus. Noise exposure can cause excessive stimulation of the hearing mechanism, which damages the delicate structures of the inner ear. NIHL can occur when an individual is exposed to sound levels above 90 dBA according to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). Regulations state that the permissible noise exposure levels for individuals is 90 dBA. For the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), exposure limits are set to 85 dBA. Exposures below 85 dBA are not considered to be hazardous. Time limits are placed on how long an individual can stay in an environment above 85 dBA before it causes hearing loss. OSHA places that limitation at 8 hours for 85 dBA. The exposure time becomes shorter as the dBA level increases.\n\nWithin the field of dentistry, a variety of cleaning tools are used including piezoelectric and sonic scalers, and ultrasonic scalers and cleaners. While a majority of the tools do not exceed 75 dBA, prolonged exposure over many years can lead to hearing loss or complaints of tinnitus. Few dentists have reported using personal hearing protective devices, which could offset any potential hearing loss or tinnitus.\n\n"}
{"id": "23897221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23897221", "title": "Disabled Persons' Parking Places (Scotland) Act 2009", "text": "Disabled Persons' Parking Places (Scotland) Act 2009\n\nThe Disabled Persons' Parking Places (Scotland) Act 2009 was an Act of the Scottish Parliament to make provision for the duties of local authorities in relation to parking places for use by disabled persons' vehicles, which was passed by Parliament on 26 February 2009 and received Royal Assent on 1 April 2009. \n\n"}
{"id": "22284157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22284157", "title": "Ernesto Pugibet", "text": "Ernesto Pugibet\n\nErnesto Pugibet, or, Ernet Pugibet in French, (May 12, 1853 - March 5, 1915) was a French Mexican entrepreneur. He is regarded as one of the key figures in Mexico's industrial revolution, at the turn of the 20th century, and a pioneer of early advertising. \n\nHe was born in Saint-Martory, Haute-Garonne, France, in 1853. He left his motherland in 1875 heading for Cuba where he would learn about the tobacco industry. In 1879 he immigrated to Mexico where he would later establish the cigarette factory known as El Buen Tono. He married Guadalupe de la Portilla in 1887 and fathered three children, Juan, Ernesto and Ana Maria. He died on March 5, 1915 in Paris, France.\n"}
{"id": "5608536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5608536", "title": "Ethiopian Red Cross Society", "text": "Ethiopian Red Cross Society\n\nThe Ethiopian Red Cross Society (ERCS) was founded and recognized by the ICRC in 1935 GC. In 2002, it had 725,827 paying adult members and about 90,000 youth volunteers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1900007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1900007", "title": "Felipe Contepomi", "text": "Felipe Contepomi\n\nFelipe Contepomi (born 20 August 1977) is an Argentine rugby coach who is currently the backs coach at Leinster Rugby. He was a rugby union footballer who played fly-half or centre; his last club was Club Newman, in the first division of the URBA championship. He was also a key player for Argentina, having played 15 years for the national team. His twin brother Manuel was also a \"Puma\". In June 2015 he was appointed coach of Argentina XV. Contepomi was inducted into the World Rugby Hall of Fame in November 2017.\n\nBorn 20 August 1977 in Buenos Aires, Contepomi started playing rugby for his secondary school Colegio Cardenal Newman, and then for Club Newman in Buenos Aires. In 2003 he joined Leinster from Bristol on a four-year contract following Bristol's relegation in the 2002–03 Zurich Premiership.\n\nHe played a major role in Leinster's run in the 2005–06 Heineken Cup, helping Leinster to a 41–35 win over Cup holders Toulouse, scoring 21 points in the process and winning the man of the match award. That year he was top scorer in both the 2005–06 Celtic League and the Heineken Cup.\n\nIn late January 2006, Contepomi's former girlfriend, Paula, gave birth to their daughter, Catalina. Only hours later, Contepomi played for Leinster the Celtic League match against the Border Reivers, a game in which he went on to score 22 points.\n\nIn November of that year, Agustín Pichot said that Contepomi was a better player than All Black fly-half, Dan Carter, the winner of the 2005 IRB International Player of the Year award.\n\nOn 31 May 2007, the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland in Dublin conferred him with the medical degrees of MB BCh BAO (NUI) LRCP&SI. He subsequently worked in Beaumont Hospital, Dublin.\n\nContepomi won the 2007 Rugby Writers of Ireland Player of the Year award. While playing at Leinster, his nominal 'local club' of origin was County Carlow Co Carlow Football Club, a provincial side which later got into financial difficulties and is now a minor Junior concern.\n\nOn 12 March 2009, it was announced that Contepomi would be leaving Leinster at the end of the season, and that he had signed a 4-year deal to join French side RC Toulon from the 2009–10 Top 14 season.\n\nContepomi played a role in the Leinster win over Munster in the Heineken Cup semi-final on 2 May 2009. After scoring a drop goal after 15 minutes in, he was helped off the pitch after suffering a knee injury half an hour in. An MRI scan confirmed he tore his anterior cruciate ligament and was expected to be out of action for 6 months post-op. Almost exactly on schedule, he made his Toulon debut on 21 November against Brive, coming off the bench and scoring a penalty in Toulon's 19–10 win.\n\nContepomi left RC Toulon to take the fly-half position at Stade Français in time for the 2011–12 season.\n\nContepomi was one of the stars of world rugby and was also set to lead the Argentina national team into a new era after being named captain in 2008. The former U19, U21 and Sevens international made his Pumas debut against Chile in 1998 and has been an integral part of Argentinean rugby ever since.\n\nThe multi-talented Contepomi made his international break-through at fly-half and while he has played much of his rugby in that position he recently has found his place at inside centre with Juan Martin Hernandez preferred at No.10.\n\nHe was named in José Luis Imhoff and Alex Wyllie's squad for the 1999 Rugby World Cup squad, where the Pumas made the quarter-finals for the first time. Marcelo Loffreda took charge of the national side in 2000 and Contepomi retained his place, eventually nailing down a starting berth 2001.\n\nHe notably notched a full house on his way to 25 points in the 30–16 victory over Wales in Cardiff on 10 November 2001. He was also part of the 2003 Rugby World Cup squad, featuring in three of the Pumas' pool games as they were forced to play four games in a fortnight.\n\nIn 2004, Contepomi weighed in with 14 points as Argentina condemned France to their first defeat at the Stade Vélodrome in Marseille. He also faced the British & Irish Lions in 2005 and at the end of 2006 he was part of the Pumas side that scored their first ever victory over England at Twickenham.\n\nThe Pumas stunned the rugby world with an inspired performance at the 2007 Rugby World Cup in France. Contepomi was a key player throughout the campaign – featuring in all seven matches as the Pumas claimed third place in the sport's global showpiece.\n\nHe was the second highest points scorer in the tournament – notably kicking four penalties in the shock opening victory over hosts France and 11 points in both the pool victory over Ireland and the quarter-final against Scotland. Contepomi was nominated by the IRB as one of five candidates for the 2007 International Player of the Year award, which was won by Bryan Habana.\n\nFollowing the retirement of veteran scrum-half Agustín Pichot, Contepomi was handed the captaincy of the Pumas in 2008 by new coach Santiago Phelan ahead of the opening clash of the year against Scotland.\n\nA knee injury suffered in Leinster's Heineken Cup semi-final victory over Munster in 2009 ruled him out of action for over a year but he returned to Pumas colours in 2010 and won a 31-point haul in their 41–13 victory over Six Nations champions France.\n\nHe was part of the Argentine squad for the 2011 Rugby World Cup in New Zealand playing as captain.\n\nContepomi played his last international game with Argentina on Saturday 5 October 2013 in Rosario, Santa Fe, against Australia during The Rugby Championship. At the time of his retirement, Contepomi achieved the most test matches played for Argentina (87) and the most points scored in international games (651). He worked with his father in their medical practice in Buenos Aires and as assistant coach in the Super XV for new Argentine franchise Jaguares (Super Rugby).\n\nContepomi joined Argentina XV in 2015 as a head coach alongside Ricardo Le Fort. In 2018, he was appointed as new Backs Coach to Leinster, succeeding Girvan Dempsey, who moved to Bath.\n\n\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "34709036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34709036", "title": "Fibe Mini", "text": "Fibe Mini\n\nFibe Mini () is a Japanese soft drink with added dietary fiber produced by Otsuka Pharmaceutical. It was launched in 1988, and is often considered the first \"functional food\". The functional ingredient is polydextrose.\n\n"}
{"id": "1684378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684378", "title": "Fuck for Forest", "text": "Fuck for Forest\n\nFuck for Forest (FFF) is a non-profit environmental organisation founded in 2004 in Norway by Leona Johansson and Tommy Hol Ellingsen. It funds itself through a website of sexually explicit videos and photographs, charging a membership fee for access. A portion of funds are donated to the cause of rescuing the world's rainforests. It is the world's first eco-porn organization and may be the only porn website specifically created to raise money for a cause. The group moved from Oslo, Norway to Berlin, Germany following the trial of its founders for having sex in public.\n\nFuck for Forest co-founders Leona Johansson and Tommy Hol Ellingsen had backgrounds in progressive and green theater and teaching troubled teens. The two started Fuck for Forest to protest the state of the world's rainforests and to make a difference. In its first six months of existence the group received seed funding from the government of Norway for the creation of an alternative environmental group. Ellingsen believes that \"eco-porn\" is the obvious choice to make a difference. He explained: \"Porn makes really, really a lot of money, so why not use that money for good?\" In 2004, its first year of existence, the organisation's website netted over $100,000 for rain forest protection through the sale of paid memberships.\n\nWebsite subscribers pay $20 per month and the organization says that over 80 percent of the money goes to charities that work to preserve the world's rain forests. The organisation's unorthodox methods have made it difficult to distribute the money it makes. Both the Norwegian chapter of the Rainforest Foundation Fund, and the World Wide Fund for Nature in the Netherlands have refused to accept donations from FFF. As a result, Fuck for Forest is working on a project to work directly with indigenous communities in Costa Rica and the Brazilian Amazon rainforest.\n\nThe group's founders gained notoriety when they had sex on stage during a 2004 Quart Festival concert featuring Norwegian singer Kristopher Schau and his band The Cumshots. After delivering a brief talk on the impact humans have on forests, Ellingsen asked \"How far are you willing to go to save the world?\" and the pair began stripping. A banner was raised on stage informing the audience of 5,000 that the couple was having sex to save the rainforest. Commenting on the event Ellingsen said, \"I had a bit of a stagefright, but it disappeared as soon as I got going.\" Johansson added that \"I got turned on by all the people.\"\n\nEllingsen and Johansson were fined 10,000 Kroner (US$1,470) each for a public sex act, a violation of Norwegian law. Commenting on their arrest, Ellingsen said \"It is ridiculous that we are prosecuted and sentenced on a moral basis at the same time as Norway is in the war against Iraq...Violence is aired on TV every day, and if this is so terrible, we could have called this performance art, and we wouldn't have been fined then?\" The event promoters were not fined because they claimed they were not aware beforehand.\n\nThe two made their court appearance dressed in children's clothes. Ellingsen dropped his trousers and showed his penis during a break in the court proceedings. Ellingsen told Nettavisen that \"We would have liked to have fucked here in court as well, it’s a nice space, but we would probably be thrown in jail.\" The group consequently moved its headquarters to Berlin, Germany.\n\nEllingsen said that within three months of their arrest, the website has attracted more than 1,000 new members, each paying $15 per month.\n\nOn 2 June 2011, Fuck for Forest members simulated intercourse in Oslo Cathedral during Mass. The leader of Oslo Bishopry told Norwegian media that the stunt makes him \"sad on behalf of those who did it.\"\nTwo of the individuals performing in the Cathedral were ordered by the Oslo District Court to pay fines of 9,000 ($1171.86) and 7,500 ($976.55) kroner for indecent behavior and outraging public decency (\"seksuelt krenkende og uanstendig adferd\"), and also to pay 2,000 kroner ($260.41) each for the trial cost.\n\nThe 2006 documentary film \"Fuck\" was released during the Cannes Film Festival (though not as a part of the festival). The poster for the film showed FFF onstage during the Quart Festival incident. The film sought to explore artists who experiment with modes of expression that challenge prevailing social mores.\n\nA feature-length cinema documentary entitled \"Fuck for Forest\" was released in 2012. The film, directed by Michał Marczak, is a narrative-driven story that loosely revolves around the group's environmental projects, but focuses on subjects like sexuality, contemporary lifestyles, western morals and cultural variants of human perception.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28977881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28977881", "title": "German Hospital in Tirana", "text": "German Hospital in Tirana\n\nThe German Hospital cooperates with the largest Cardiac Clinics in the world.\nThe Center of Cardiovascular Care is the best and largest in Albania and the Balkan countries, with German and Austrian doctors and a highly trained and motivated international medical support team.\nThe doctors and surgeons of the German Hospital have performed over 1,000 cardiovascular interventions per year, using state-of-the-art and latest technology - including modern minimal invasive and less traumatic techniques.\n\n\nThe cardiac surgery program at The German Hospital in Tirana\nis offering a full range of services and surgical interventions.\n\n\n\nCurrently the German Hospital is searching for doctors.\nOpen positions are:\nhttp://web.me.com/rfasol/German_Hospital_Tiran_1./home-1.html\n"}
{"id": "29246125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29246125", "title": "Health in Tanzania", "text": "Health in Tanzania\n\nThe 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births for Tanzania was 790. This is compared with 449 in 2008 and 610.2 in 1990. The UN Child Mortality Report 2011 reports a decrease in under-five mortality from 155 per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 76 per 1,000 live births in 2010, and in neonatal mortality from 40 per 1,000 live births to 26 per 1,000 live births. The aim of the report The State of the World's Midwifery is to highlight ways in which the Millennium Development Goals can be achieved, particularly Goal 4 – Reduce child mortality and Goal 5 – improve maternal health. In Tanzania there are only two midwives per 1,000 live births; and the lifetime risk of death during delivery for women is one in 23.\n\nBoth maternal and child health are interdependent and substantially contributing to high burden of mortality worldwide. Every year, 289,000 women die due to complications in pregnancy and childbirth, and 6.6 million children below 5 years of age die of complications in the newborn period and of common childhood diseases. Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), which includes Tanzania, contribute higher proportion of maternal and child mortality. Due to considerable proportion of mortality being attributed by maternal and child health, the United Nations together with other international agencies incorporated the two into Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 4 and 5. In this regard, Tanzania through the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MoHSW) adopted different strategies and efforts to promote safe motherhood and improve child survival. Similarly, in an effort to improve maternal and child health, Tanzania’s government has declared maternal and child health services to be exempt from user fees in government facilities.\n\nComplications during pregnancy and childbirth are a leading cause of death and disability among women of reproductive age in developing countries. Statistically, maternal mortality contributes to only 2.3 per cent of the total mortality. The maternal mortality ratio (MMR) represents the risk associated with each pregnancy. MMR is estimated by using both number of maternal deaths and live births. Many low-income countries have no or very little data and modelling is used to obtain a national estimate. According to estimates in 2013, total maternal deaths and MMR in Tanzania were 7,900 and 410 per 100,000 live births respectively. In relation to MDG 5, Tanzania is supposed to reach the MMR of 230 per 100,000 live births by 2015. Reduction of maternal deaths is one of the main goals of the Tanzanian poverty reduction strategy and the health sector reform program, but progress has been slow. The slow progress in reducing maternal mortality on mainland Tanzania is compounded by the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.\n\nGood care during pregnancy is important for the health of the mother and the development of the unborn baby. Many health problems in pregnant women can be prevented, detected, and treated during antenatal care visits with trained health workers. The World Health Organization recommends a minimum of four antenatal care (ANC) visits. The \"Tanzania Demographic and Health Survey 2010\" showed that 98 percent made at least one ANC visit and 43 percent made four or more visits.\n\nThis indicator is directly linked to a process of giving birth by pregnant woman, and most of maternal mortality are likely to happen at this stage. Most maternal deaths result from haemorrhage, complications of unsafe abortion, pregnancy-induced hypertension, sepsis and obstructed labour. However, these proportions of causes for maternal deaths are likely to differ from one country to another. According to official estimates, more than 20 women die of pregnancy and childbirth-related complications every day in Tanzania. Ensuring that mothers have access to a skilled attendant during labour can dramatically reduce the risk of death for the mother and newborn child. In the 2010 Tanzania DHS, about 51% of deliveries were assisted by skilled personnel. While it was 41% in 1999 Tanzania DHS. Potentially the current figure national-wide will be more than 51 per cent. Shortage of health providers, among others, are limiting factors to be delivered by skilled provider. The ratio of doctors to patients in Tanzania is 1:25,000 and the ratio of nurses to patients is 1:23,000. While the ratio in the United States is 1:300. President Jakaya Kikwete on May 2014 appealed to health workers in Tanzania to ensure that lives of women and children are not at risk during delivery. In Tanzania, two thirds of women give birth in their own homes, because there are very few health facilities within reach that can provide life-saving emergency services.\n\nEvery year in Africa, at least 125,000 women and 870,000 newborns die in the first week after birth, yet this is when coverage and programmes are at their lowest along the continuum of care. Since up to 50 per cent of maternal deaths occurs after delivery, a midwife or a trained and supervised Traditional Birth Attendant (TBA) should visit all mothers as soon as possible within the first 24–48 hours after birth. The 2010 figure in utilizing postnatal care in Tanzania was only 31 per cent according to TDHS. Coverage of postnatal check-up within 4 hours after birth varies from 9 percent in the Lake zone to 34 percent in the Southern zone in Tanzania. Postnatal care (PNC) programmes are among the weakest of all reproductive and child health programmes in Tanzania and Sub-Saharan African in general. Given the absence of PNC guidelines in Tanzania, the Reproductive and Child Health Section (RCHS) of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare [Tanzania] reported in 2009 that is in the process of developing it to be used country-wide.\n\nThe policy environment for family planning in Tanzania is mixed, but promising. At the 2012 London Summit on Family Planning, President Kikwete highlighted Tanzania's continued efforts to improve family planning. He mentioned the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (MKUKUTA II) which has a strong family planning component, and the National Family Planning Costed Implementation Plan (2010) which endeavors to reach a contraceptive prevalence target of 60% of all women by 2015 and will require $88.2 million between 2010 and 2015. Like many countries in sub-Saharan Africa, Tanzania's once successful family planning program has slowed markedly, with rates of contraceptive prevalence well below levels needed to reach current demand and country goals. In Tanzania, 34.4 percent of married women in 2010 reported use of any method of contraception, while modern methods reached a prevalence of 27.4 per cent. Factors limiting contraceptive prevalence in Tanzania include widespread misconceptions and concerns about side-effects, low acceptance of long–acting methods, erratic supplies and a limited range of choices, gaps in provider knowledge and skills (along with provider bias), competing priorities pursuing scarce resources, limited male involvement, poor communication between spouses, and the perceived value of large families also contribute to low use of family planning methods.\n\nChildren in sub-Saharan Africa are about over 16 times more likely to die before the age of five than children in developed regions. Tanzania has reduced the infant mortality rate (IMR) of 101 to 38 per 1000 live births from 1990 to 2012 respectively. Also, it has reduced substantially the under-five mortality rate (U5MR) of 166 to 54 per 1000 live births from 1990 to 2012 respectively.\n\nMalaria is the leading cause of death for Tanzanian children and is a major cause of maternal mortality. Tanzania is making considerable progress in the reduction of child mortality. In that respect, Tanzania is likely to achieve MDG 4 of reducing child mortality. The most significant contribution to the reduction of under-five mortality is improved control measures of malaria, Acute Respiratory Infections, diarrhea; improved personal hygiene, environmental sanitation; and preventive, promotive as well as curative health services. Tanzania's average annual rate of reduction of child mortality over the last 15 years was 4.6%, while, the Millennium Development Goal rate set by UN is an annual average rate of reduction of 4.3 percent.\n\nThere have been improvements in the planning process, community ownership and involvement, improving coverage, effective mobilization of funds for the Expanded Program of Immunisation, improvements in the safety of vaccine delivery and introduction of new and underutilized vaccines. According to 2010 Demographic and Health Survey in Tanzania, 66% at 12 months of age were fully immunised during the survey. The 2010 DHS in Tanzania which is the latest, presents the BCG coverage of 95.5%, DPT vaccine coverage of 88%; Polio (Pol3) coverage of 84.9% and Measles coverage of 84.5%. The proportion of children vaccinated against measles increased from 80% in 2005 to 85% in 2010. But the vaccination coverage in Tanzania presented to be more that 90% for each of the above vaccines according to World Health Organization in 2012. \nThe government of Tanzania via the Minister of Health and Social Welfare, has urged in 2012 partners and stakeholders in the country to join the National Immunization Coordination Committee to ensure that all children in Tanzanian are covered.\n\nAn Electronic Immunisation Register has been established, which permits online access to the medical records of mothers and infants, enabling vaccination teams in remote areas to operate more effectively, especially with nomadic people. It also helps to coordinate stock levels and order new supplies.\n\nIn Tanzania by 2010, breastfeeding was initiated within the first hour of birth in 46.1% of mothers. Over 97 percent of mothers in Tanzania do breastfeed, however, the prevalence of exclusive breastfeeding in infants aged 0–6 months is 50 percent. Although the national average reported to be 50% prevalence, one regional study focusing on Kilimanjaro region only revealed the general prevalence of 88.1% at one month, 65.5% at three months and 20.7% for an infant of six months of age, which is very low and did not vary between rural and urban. A multivariate analysis using 2010 TDHS data revealed that the risk of delayed initiation of breastfeeding within 1 hour after birth was significantly higher among young mothers aged <24 years, uneducated and employed mothers from rural areas who delivered by caesarean section and those who delivered at home and were assisted by traditional birth attendants or relatives. The risk factors associated with non-exclusive breastfeeding, during the first 6 months, were lack of professional assistance at birth and residence in urban areas.\n\nMalnutrition in Tanzania is a contributing factor in an estimated 130 child deaths every day. According to 2010 TDHS, about 42 percent of children are stunted, 16 percent are underweight and 5 percent are wasted. Different efforts have been adopted in Tanzania to improve children nutrition status. Within a one-year interval from 2010 and 2011, significant reduction in malnutrition observed. In 2011 according to World Health Organization (WHO) estimates on child malnutrition in Tanzania, children aged <5 years stunted was 34.8% in 2011; underweight was 13.6% in 2011; wasted was 6.6% in 2011 and overweight was 5.5% in 2010. Some regions in Tanzania like Iringa, Mbeya and Rukwa are among the five regions with the highest stunting and are all areas with high food production. The case in Tanzania, is inconsistent with the common assumption that increasing agriculture and food production will automatically lead to improvements in nutrition.\n\nReducing the number of children dying before their fifth birthday has been targeted in the Sustainable Development Goals under the health related goals. Tanzania has made an improvement in attaining the reduction of child mortality; however, based on the Sustainable Development Goals, the country should further reduce in exact numbers the neonatal and under-five mortality rates by 2030.\n\nSustainable development goals have been developed as a new development agenda after the expiration of the Millennium Development Goals in 2015. The third sustainable development goal aims to enhance healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages.\n\nThe health related Sustainable Development Goal 3, target 3.2 targets a reduction of neonatal mortality to 12 per 1000 live births and under five mortality rate to 25 per 1000 live births by 2030. The world under five mortality rate has declined from 90 in 1990 to 46 in 2013. In Tanzania, the U5MR has declined from 167 in 1990 to 52 in 2013. The country ranks the 48 in the world in 2013 in under five mortality out of 194 countries. Figure 1 shows a comparison of under five mortality rate between the World and Tanzania with data from State of the World's Children 2015 Report and WHO,Global Health Observatory Data Repository.\nFigure 2 shows a comparison of Neonatal Mortality rates between the World and Tanzania with data from UNICEF 2013 Child Mortality Report.\n\nTanzania faces a \"mature\", generalized HIV epidemic. Among the 1.4 million people living with HIV/AIDS, 70.5 percent are 25 to 49 years old, and 15 percent are 15–24 years. In young women ages 15 to 24, there is an HIV prevalence rate of 3.8 percent, which is significantly higher than the 2.8 percent prevalence rate among young men in the same age group. More than half of available hospital beds are occupied by HIV-infected persons. HIV is the leading cause of mortality in Tanzania, accounting for 17% of the annual deaths in 2013. The number of deaths has been declining since 2001 from 339/100,000 to 159/ 100,000 in 2013 however prevalence rates have increased from 4.3% to 5.3% and incidence has progressively decreased from 381/100,000 to 146/100,000 during the same time period.\n\nMalaria exists throughout the year and is predominantly due to P. falciparum. The country had a decline of malaria cases over the years from 18.1% in 2001 to 9.7% in 2009 in under 5 year olds and this is seen in the reduction of under 5 mortality rates which decreased from 165/ 100,000 in 1990 to 49/ 100,000 in 2015. This decrease in malaria prevalence is also shown in the Demographic and Health Survey and Malaria Indicator Survey 2015–16 (DHS-MIS 2015-16) with a 14% prevalence in 2015. This varied from Kagera's 41% and Geita's 38% to Zanzibar's <1%. It is also 18% in the rural area and urban 4% and also highest in the poorest quintile (23%) and lowest among the richest quintile (1%).\n\nFor the year 2014, 6% of the deaths in Tanzania were attributed to diarrhoeal diseases. It is imperative to reduce diarrheal diseases if the country is to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. In the UNICEF Pneumonia and Diarrhea Report 2016, there are strategies outlined for the low income countries to adopt in the fight against these two leading killer diseases.\n\nThis is listed as the second leading cause of mortality in Tanzania according to the CDC Tanzania Global Health Facts. According to the Demographic and Health Survey and Malaria Indicator Survey 2015–16, there have been no changes over time of occurrence of LRTIs. However, the EPI has included the pentavalent vaccine which protects against Haemophilus influenzae, a common cause of pneumonia.\n\nThere were 327/100,000 new cases of TB in 2014, up from 236/100,000 in 2001. The case detection rate dropped to 36% in 2014 from 68% in 2001 Demographic and Health Survey and Malaria Indicator Survey 2015–16. TB deaths have increased from 17/100,000 in 2001 to 58/100,000 in 2014. (These cases were in HIV negative people.) Tuberculosis accounted for 5% of deaths in Tanzania in 2014. \n\nTanzania has seen an increase of non communicable diseases as some of the leading causes of death. The major ones by contribution include: cancer 5%, ischemic heart disease 3% and stroke 3%. The double burden of disease is causing an extra strain to the already fragile health system that is struggling to cope with the scourge of communicable diseases and high child and maternal mortality and morbidity.\n\nTanzania is a United Republic of Former Tanganyika (currently referred to Tanganyika mainland) and Zanzibar. The estimated population has dramatically increased from 12.3 to 44.9 million people from 1967 to 2012 respectively (Figure 1. below). The current working group (15– 64 years of age) of is estimated to be 52.2%. The National economy still depend mostly on agriculture that holds up to 40% of gross domestic product (GDP). Agriculture sector employs 76.5% of workforce in the Country; Industry sector (4.3%); and services (19.2%).\n\nFigure 1:Tanzania population growth since 1967- 2012\n\nThe country had been operating under Factories Ordinances Cap. 297 of 1950 that provided for occupational health and safety standards in the country. Through various sector reform programmes, The National established Occupational Health and Safety Authority under The Executive Agency Act No. 30 of 1997 which become officially operational late 2001. Moreover, in 2003 the Occupational Health and Safety Act No. 5 was enacted giving the authority mandatory objectives of providing the safety, health and welfare of persons at work in factories and other places of work; to provide for the protection of persons other than persons at work against hazards to health and safety arising out of or in connection with activities of persons at work.\n\nOther initiatives the country has gone through includes incorporation of occupational health and safety matters in other Principal legislation such as The Tropical Pesticides Research Institute Act of 1979; The Pharmaceuticals and Poison Act of 1978; The Atomic Energy Act of 2003, The Industrial and Consumer Chemicals Act of 1985; The Mining Act of 2010 and Employment and labour relation Act No.6 of 2004 with subsequent establishment of Labour Court (being part of The High Court of Tanzania).\n\nIn 2008 another important step was made – the establishment of Workers' Compensation Fund through Workers Compensation Act No. 20 of 2008 with objectives of providing for compensation to employees for disablement of death caused by or result from injuries or diseases sustained or contracted in the course of employment; to establish Fund for administration and regulation of workers compensation and to provide for related matter.\n\nThe International Labour Organization (ILO), estimates that more than 2.3 million people die of work-related accidents and diseases every year and 317 million accidents annually occur due to workplace hazards. The figures further explain that out of 2.34 million occupational fatalities every year; only 321,000 are due to accidents, the remaining 2.02 million deaths are caused by various types of work-related diseases, which correspond to a daily average between 5,500 up to 6,000 deaths.\n\nEvery individual worker needs good working environment that is safe and free from any kind of life - threatening hazards. This may be possible where most if not all health risks are identified at workplace and correct measures are put in place and adhered by all workers around.\nMining sector is fast growing in a country and significant number of workers both in conventional and small scale mining are employed. The sector contributes up to 40% of country's export and it was estimated to contribute up to 7.7% of national GDP by end of 2015.\n\nStatus of occupational accidents and injuries varies considerably between different sources. It is estimated that in mining/quarry, the injury rate is 17 per 1,000 workers whereas Industry sector is responsible for 10.1% of total occupational accidents, 9.6% of fatalities, 12.2% of partial disabilities and about 7.4% of temporary disability and the injury rate is 9.9 per 1,000 workers.\n\nReport from National Audit office (NAO) showed that construction/building industry had highest Fatality rate of 23.7% followed by Transport and mining/quarrying that had 20.6% and 20.5 respectively (table 1 below). Injuries in transport sector is another life-threatening risk that continues to claim lives of people especially motorcyclist and public transport (buses). however the major challenge in these information is validity and reliability as the reporting and data keeping system in Tanzania is not well coordinated.\n\nTable 1: Fatality Rate sectorwise\nSource: NAO report- Performance Audit Report on the Management of Occupational Health and Safety in Tanzania, 2013.\n\nThe presented information may be challenged by several other factors as reporting system is not well functional. There were a total of 6,599 registered workplaces equivalent to 24% of eligible workplaces. This challenges is a challenge to The Authority dealing with Occupational safety and Health in Tanzania. Accelerated development as a result of new large discoveries and investments in Oil, gas and Uranium and expected spill - over effects calls for serious investments in this areas as more workers will be involved and exposure to occupational hazards will need serious interventions.\n\n"}
{"id": "6954804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6954804", "title": "Indian Association for Medical Informatics", "text": "Indian Association for Medical Informatics\n\nThe Indian Association for Medical Informatics (IAMI) is a professional society that plays a role in promoting and furthering the application of informatics in the fields of healthcare, bioscience and medicine in India. It was established in 1993.\n\nThe objectives of the IAMI are to sensitize the Indian medical community to the benefits of Information Technology (IT), bring about awareness and ensure greater utilization of IT in healthcare facilities across the length and breadth of India. The IAMI also aims to provide necessary assistance and guidance to other organizations to implement and reap the benefits of IT for health care. It supports introduction of computer literacy along with medical education, development of computerized as well as medical digital libraries, access to information and creation of databases. IAMI emphasizes research and development of medical informatics as an independent discipline. It provides various communication and interaction channels among its members by means of e-groups and through publication of a scholarly journal.\n\nIt is the Indian National Member at IMIA.\n\nIAMI was registered in September 1993 with its Registered Office being the Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, in Hyderabad, India.\n\nIt has been organising a conference every two years on roles and applications of informatics in medicine, health and allied fields in various states of India.\n\nThe first biennial conference was held in 1995 at Hyderabad.\n\nThe second conference was held in 1997 at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.\n\nThe third conference in 1999 in Hyderabad was postponed due to natural calamities. A workshop was also held at NIMS in lieu later.\n\nThe third conference was held in 2001 in New Delhi.\n\nThe fourth conference was held in 2003 at PGIMER, Chandigarh.\n\nA mid-conference was held in 2004 at the South-Eastern Railways Hospital, Kolkata.\n\nThe fifth conference was held in 2005 at Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences in Amritsar.\n\nIAMI has conducted many beginners' courses for doctors, nurses, paramedical personnel and computer professional class. This enabled the association in enrolling many hospitals, institutes and organizations as Institutional Life Members. It is aiming at making Medical Informatics as one of the elective subjects in the UG curriculum for all medical colleges in India and to get academic credits from the Medical Council of India and other autonomous bodies under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (India), Government of India for all the delegates participating in the conferences, seminars and workshops organized by the association.\n\nIn 2001, it started a discussion group for medical informatics. Which has now grown into the de facto information source for medical informatics-related activities in India for its members as well as non-members. Its active members include almost everyone in the medical informatics scene of India. IAMI got its own website in 2002. Its \"Indian Journal of Medical Informatics\" (\"IJMI\", ) was started in May 2004.\n\nIAMI membership consists of Personal, Institutional and Honorary Members.\n\nMany of its key office bearers are part of several Government of India (GOI) initiatives in the areas of telemedicine, especially in the area of development of standards and guidelines for the practice of telemedicine, online medical education and electronic medical records or electronic health records.\n\nIt produces the scientific journal called \"Indian Journal of Medical Informatics\".\n\nMembers of the association have an active discussion group where healthcare IT enthusiasts discuss topics of their interest. Several discussion threads run in parallel. There is also a \"topic of the month\" which is the main focus of the discussion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38720253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38720253", "title": "Irish Lumper", "text": "Irish Lumper\n\nThe Irish Lumper is a varietal white potato of historic interest. It has been identified as the variety of potato whose widespread cultivation throughout Ireland, prior to the 1840s, is implicated in the Irish Great Famine in which an estimated 1 million died. \n\nThe 'Irish Lumper' is noted for its ability to flourish on garden beds that are poor in nutrients, wet-footed, or both. Until the 1840s, it was closely adapted to growing conditions in Ireland, particularly western Ireland. The Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Ireland noted that the Lumper was a \"very old variety, and ... probably well known when first recorded by Dutton (1808) in his Agricultural Survey of County Clare. ... It was described by Andrews (1835) as a 'coarse species' and was recommended by Howden (1837) as stock feed due to its enormous yield.\"\n\nIn the 1840s, infestations of \"Phytophthora infestans\" devastated a series of potato harvests, leading to widespread famine and emigration. The cumulative effects of both catastrophes lowered Ireland's total population by approximately 2 million, of which approximately 1 million were fatalities.\n\nAfter almost disappearing from cultivation, the 'Irish Lumper' was regrown, starting in 2008, by Michael McKillop of County Antrim for harvest sale as an heirloom varietal.\n\nThe 'Irish Lumper' has been characterized as a \"wet, nasty, knobbly old potato.\" Its texture upon boiling is described as more \"waxy\" than \"floury\", indicating a starch content on the lower side of that typical for white potatoes. \n\nSchools in Ireland are starting to cultivate the 'Irish Lumper' as a project of historical education. The Lumpers are cultivated in raised garden beds, as their ancestors were in the 1840s.\n"}
{"id": "13522371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13522371", "title": "Iron oxide adsorption", "text": "Iron oxide adsorption\n\nIron oxide adsorption is a water treatment process that is used to remove arsenic from drinking water. Arsenic is a common natural contaminant of well water and is highly carcinogenic. Iron oxide adsorption treatment for arsenic in groundwater is a commonly practiced removal process which involves the chemical treatment of arsenic species such that they adsorb onto iron oxides and create larger particles that may be filtered out of the water stream.\n\nThe addition of ferric chloride, FeCl, to well water immediately after the well at the influent to the treatment plant creates ferric hydroxide, Fe(OH), and hydrochloric acid, HCl. \n\nFe(OH) in water is a strong adsorbent of arsenate, As(V), provided that the pH is low. HCl lowers pH, assuring arsenic adsorption, and the disassociated chlorine oxidizes iron in solution from Fe to Fe, which then may bond with hydroxide ions, OH, thus creating more adsorbent.\n\nThis adjustment also lowers the pH of the well water, decreasing alkalinity and allowing more cationic species such Fe(+) or As(+) as to exist freely within the flow. Low pH also decreases the solubility of some iron and arsenic species as well as increasing the adsorptive reactivity of arsenate, As(V).\n\nAdditional oxidation of Fe to Fe, also referred to as iron(II) and iron(III), is induced by the addition of sodium hypochlorite, NaOCl, at the well head. NaOCl is usually added for disinfection although it may be used in this case towards the objectives of a distribution system free chlorine residual of 1 mg/L \"and\" the oxidation of aqueous As(III) to As(V), and aqueous iron Fe to Fe, which will bond with hydroxide for further adsorption.\n\nThe filter media usually consists of anthracite, iron-manganese oxidizing sand, and garnet sand over support gravel.\n"}
{"id": "50962160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50962160", "title": "Joseph A. Holmes Safety Association", "text": "Joseph A. Holmes Safety Association\n\nThe Joseph A. Holmes Safety Association (JAHSA) is a nonprofit organization in the United States that promotes health and safety in the mining industry. It was founded in 1916 as a tribute to its namesake, Joseph Austin Holmes. Membership is non-partisan and consists of representatives from labor, federal government, state government and institutions, mine management, and industry vendors. The association has annual meetings in locations that rotate among regional areas in the U.S. and publishes the Holmes Safety Association Bulletin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48862498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48862498", "title": "Kennack Sands", "text": "Kennack Sands\n\nKennack Sands is a beach and sand-dune system on the east coast of the Lizard Peninsula, Cornwall, England, UK.\n\nThe beach is approximately long and backed by cliffs, Kennack Towans (sand-dune system) and Carn Kennack. Inland is the abandoned Gwendreath Quarry. The beach is used for recreation and divided into two by an outcrop of rocks called the Caerverracks. Kennack Sands has a gentle sloping beach so the tidal range is quite large. At high tide there is still a large amount of beach to make use of but at low tide the beach seems to get a lot bigger. There is a rocky outcrop that splits the beach into two so the beach may be referred to as Kennack Sands west and Kennack Sands East. The rock that splits the beaches is called Caerverracks and the hill above this Carn Kennack. There is a path that runs over Carn Kennack allowing access to the east beach which is a designated nature reserve.\n\nIt is a popular site for launching inflatables for underwater diving. Less than off-shore the depth of water is over .\n\nThe nearest village is Kuggar, inland. There is a car park and café on the western side of the beach and on the road to Kuggar there are caravan and camping sites.\n\nPill boxes and an anti-tank wall were built on the back of the beach in case of invasion during the Second World War.\n"}
{"id": "48267603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48267603", "title": "King Edward VII Memorial Hospital", "text": "King Edward VII Memorial Hospital\n\nThe King Edward VII Memorial Hospital in Stanley, Falkland Islands is the base for the Falkland Islands Government Health Service. There is a hospital of the same name in Bermuda.\n\nHealth services are funded by fish licence revenue and by income tax. They are entirely free at the point of delivery to Islands residents and to British residents under a reciprocal health agreement. In 2003 the provision of the service cost £950 per head of population per year, similar to the cost in the UK. Services are provided to about 3000 residents. The military base provides its own health care, but makes use of the hospital facilities as necessary.\n\nThis is the only hospital on the Islands. All the islands' medical, dental and community health services are based there. There are 18 acute beds, one maternity bed, a single bedded isolation unit, a two bedded intensive care unit and seven long-stay nursing beds. It was rebuilt in 1987 after a fire destroyed the earlier wooden building. The range of equipment and facilities is surprisingly comprehensive, as it has to be almost entirely self-sufficient and takes referrals from Tristan da Cunha, South Georgia, and Antarctica. Before 1982 medical services on the islands were very basic, but there has been considerable investment since. Colorectal cancer was particularly common on the islands, linked to a very unusual gene mutation and a three-yearly colorectal screening programme was introduced in 1997. It reached 99% of the population and appears to have virtually eliminated colorectal carcinoma.\n\nThere are four full-time GPs and one part-time. A consultant surgeon and consultant anaesthetist do four month tours of duty on the Islands. A radiographer, a biomedical scientist, and a dental hygienist are seconded from NHS trusts. There are 2 practice nurses, a part-time nurse practitioner, 2 casualty nurses, ward nurses and healthcare assistants. The GPs have to provide all medical care apart from surgery or anaesthesia, supported by visiting specialists, mostly from the UK who help to keep them up to date. Consultations take place by telephone for patients in remote locations. There are weekly visits by GPs to patients outside Stanley. There are three midwives, and about 30 babies are born each year. A medicine chest is provided for these patients and replenished as necessary. Patients, or doctors, can be transported by the Falkland Islands Government Air Service if necessary. Serious emergencies are taken to Chile.\n\nDr Constant Ndjapa-Ndamkou, the chief medical officer. They use EMIS software for medical records.\n\nSir Jack Hayward contributed to the repairs of the hospital after the 1982 Falklands War.\n"}
{"id": "22012133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22012133", "title": "Lactation suppression", "text": "Lactation suppression\n\nLactation suppression refers to the act of suppressing lactation by medication or other non pharmaceutical means. The breasts may become painful when engorged with milk if breastfeeding is ceased abruptly, or if never started. This may occur if a woman never initiates breastfeeding, or if she is weaning from breastfeeding abruptly. Historically women who did not plan to breastfeed were given diethylstilbestrol and other medications after birth to suppress lactation. However, its use was discontinued, and there are no medications currently approved for lactation suppression in the US and the UK.\n\nAfter birth, some women may desire to stop the production of breast milk, for example when the mother decides to bottle feed from birth, or in the case when the infant dies or is surrendered at birth. Additionally, women who are breastfeeding may need to stop breastfeeding abruptly, for instance if she is taking medication contradicted for breastfeeding or undergoes surgery. The abrupt weaning process may lead to severe engorgement, extremely painful breasts, and possibly mastitis. \n\nCabergoline (Dostinex™) is currently most effective option currently available, as it is available as a single dose (as opposed to bromocriptine which must be taken twice daily for 2 weeks.) It may be prescribed in the case of breast abscess. Although the preferred method of treatment for breast abscess and mastitis is actually to continue breastfeeding, if the decision is made to stop breastfeeding, then chemical lactation suppression is indicated, particularly for severe cases. Carbergoline is not indicated for treatment of discomfort caused by engorgement.\n\nIn the past, hormonal therapies, such as diethylstilbestrol and bromocriptine were routinely used in the postpartum period, but these are no longer recommended due to side effects as they alter hormone levels dramatically and cause side effects such as nausea and vomiting, and severe potential side effects such as thromboembolism, cerebral accident, and myocardial infarction (DES is also a known carcinogen).\n\nEstrogen containing birth control pills may have the same side effect. Pseudoephedrine may also suppress lactation, as it is known to cause low supply.\n\nIn the US. Spitz et al. in a 100-year review of all available information concluded that there was nothing new or helpful to assist with the mammary involution or milk suppression process or to treat the pain or discomfort of severely engorged breasts.\n\nBy simply not stimulating the breasts after birth, after a few days the production of milk will decease. If breastfeeding has already been established, the production of milk typically takes longer to decrease and may take several weeks. Women may experience pain and discomfort from engorgement. This discomfort is may be relieved by hand-expressing milk or the use of a pump to reduce engorgement and prevent mastitis. The discomfort can also be treated with analgesics. However, as much as one third of all women will experience severe pain in this process.\n\nHistorically, binding the breasts by use of tight-fitting bras or ace bandages was used, but this is now discouraged as this may cause blocked milk ducts and mastitis. Fluid restriction is also not recommended as it is likely ineffective and unnecessary.\n\nCabbage leaves are a common recommendation to reduce discomfort from engorgement. However, a Cochrane review of three studies on this subject concluded that there was no statistically significant evidence that interventions were associated with a more rapid resolution of symptoms; in these studies women tended to have improvements in pain and other symptoms over time whether or not they received active treatment.\n\nAccording to the Cochrane review other interventions such as hot/cold packs, Gua-Sha (scraping therapy), acupuncture, and proteolytic enzymes may be promising for the treatment of breast engorgement, but there is insufficient evidence to justify widespread implementation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9024900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9024900", "title": "List of UN numbers 2001 to 2100", "text": "List of UN numbers 2001 to 2100\n\nThe UN numbers from UN2001 to UN2100 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "1237999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237999", "title": "List of hospitals in Uganda", "text": "List of hospitals in Uganda\n\nThe largest state-owned hospital in Uganda is Mulago Hospital in Kampala with around 1,500 beds. It was built in 1962.\n\nIan Clarke, a physician and missionary from Northern Ireland, built the 200-bed International Hospital Kampala, which was the first International Organization for Standardization-certified hospital in the country.\n\nAccording to a published report in 2009, the distribution of healthcare facilities and funding heavily favored urban centers, with 70 percent of physicians and 40 percent of nurses and midwives based in urban areas, where they served only 12 percent of Uganda's population.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8820052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8820052", "title": "List of psychiatrists", "text": "List of psychiatrists\n\nThis list is of notable psychiatrists.\n\nAdditional lists of psychiatrists can be found at the articles List of figures in psychiatry (though not all individuals at that list are psychiatrists and medical doctors), Fictional psychiatrists, and List of physicians.\n\nMedical doctors who are psychiatrists and included in those lists and are also listed below. Some psychiatrists are also in the list of neurologists.\n\n"}
{"id": "507859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507859", "title": "Louis Slotin", "text": "Louis Slotin\n\nLouis Alexander Slotin (1 December 1910 – 30 May 1946) was a Canadian physicist and chemist who took part in the Manhattan Project. He was born and raised in the North End of Winnipeg, Manitoba. After earning both his Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees from the University of Manitoba, Slotin attended King's College London, where he obtained his doctorate in physical chemistry in 1936. Afterwards, he joined the University of Chicago as a research associate to help design a cyclotron. In 1942, he was invited to participate in the Manhattan Project.\n\nAs part of the Manhattan Project, Slotin performed experiments with uranium and plutonium cores to determine their critical mass values. After World War II, Slotin continued his research at Los Alamos National Laboratory. On May 21, 1946, Slotin accidentally began a fission reaction, which released a burst of hard radiation. Slotin was rushed to the hospital, and died nine days later on May 30, the victim of the second criticality accident in history, following the death of Harry Daghlian, who had been exposed to radiation by the same core that killed Slotin.\n\nSlotin was hailed as a hero by the United States government for reacting quickly enough to prevent the deaths of his colleagues. However, some physicists argue that this was a preventable accident. The accident and its aftermath have been dramatized in several fictional and non-fiction accounts.\n\nSlotin was the first of three children born to Israel and Sonia Slotin, Yiddish-speaking refugees who had fled the pogroms of Russia to Winnipeg, Manitoba. He grew up in the North End neighborhood of Winnipeg, an area with a large concentration of Eastern European immigrants. From his early days at Machray Elementary School through his teenage years at St. John's High School, Slotin was academically exceptional. His younger brother, Sam, later remarked that his brother \"had an extreme intensity that enabled him to study long hours.\"\n\nAt the age of 16, Slotin entered the University of Manitoba to pursue a degree in science. During his undergraduate years, he received a University Gold Medal in both physics and chemistry. Slotin received a B.Sc. degree in geology from the university in 1932 and a M.Sc. degree in 1933. With the assistance of one of his mentors, he obtained a fellowship to study at King's College London under the supervision of Arthur John Allmand, the chair of the chemistry department, who specialized in the field of applied electrochemistry and photochemistry.\n\nWhile at King's College, Slotin distinguished himself as an amateur boxer by winning the college's amateur bantamweight boxing championship. Later, he gave the impression that he had fought for the Spanish Republic and trained to fly a fighter with the Royal Air Force. Author Robert Jungk recounted in his book \"\", the first published account of the Manhattan Project, that Slotin \"had volunteered for service in the Spanish Civil War, more for the sake of the thrill of it than on political grounds. He had often been in extreme danger as an anti-aircraft gunner.\" During an interview years later, Sam stated that his brother had gone \"on a walking tour in Spain\", and he \"did not take part in the war\" as previously thought. Slotin earned a Ph.D. degree in physical chemistry from the university in 1936. He won a prize for his thesis entitled \"An Investigation into the Intermediate Formation of Unstable Molecules During some Chemical Reactions.\" Afterwards, he spent six months working as a special investigator for Dublin's Great Southern Railways, testing the Drumm nickel-zinc rechargeable batteries used on the Dublin–Bray line.\n\nIn 1937, after he unsuccessfully applied for a job with Canada's National Research Council, the University of Chicago accepted him as a research associate. There, Slotin gained his first experience with nuclear chemistry, helping to build the first cyclotron in the midwestern United States. The job paid poorly and Slotin's father had to support him for two years. From 1939 to 1940, Slotin collaborated with Earl Evans, the head of the university's biochemistry department, to produce radiocarbon (carbon-14 and carbon-11) from the cyclotron. While working together, the two men also used carbon-11 to demonstrate that plant cells had the capacity to use carbon dioxide for carbohydrate synthesis, through carbon fixation.\n\nSlotin might have been present at the start-up of Enrico Fermi's \"Chicago Pile-1\", the first nuclear reactor, on 2 December 1942; the accounts of the event do not agree on this point. During this time, Slotin also contributed to several papers in the field of radiobiology. His expertise on the subject garnered the attention of the United States government, and as a result he was invited to join the Manhattan Project, the United States' effort to develop a nuclear bomb. Slotin worked on the production of plutonium under future Nobel laureate Eugene Wigner at the university and later at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. He moved to the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico in December 1944 to work in the bomb physics group of Robert Bacher.\n\nAt Los Alamos, Slotin's duties consisted of dangerous criticality testing, first with uranium in Otto Robert Frisch's experiments, and later with plutonium cores. Criticality testing involved bringing masses of fissile materials to near-critical levels to establish their critical mass values. Scientists referred to this flirting with the possibility of a nuclear chain reaction as \"tickling the dragon's tail\", based on a remark by physicist Richard Feynman, who compared the experiments to \"tickling the tail of a sleeping dragon\". On 16 July 1945, Slotin assembled the core for Trinity, the first detonated atomic device, and became known as the \"chief armorer of the United States\" for his expertise in assembling nuclear weapons. Slotin received two small circular lead and silver commemorative pins for his work on the project.\n\nIn the winter of 1945–1946, Slotin shocked some of his colleagues with a bold action. He repaired an instrument six feet under water inside the Clinton Pile while it was operating, rather than wait an extra day for the reactor to be shut down. He did not wear his dosimetry badge, but his dose was estimated to be at least 100 roentgen. A dose of 1 Gy (~100 roentgen) can cause nausea and vomiting in 10% of cases, but is generally survivable.\n\nOn 21 August 1945, laboratory assistant Harry Daghlian, one of Slotin's close colleagues, was performing a critical mass experiment when he accidentally dropped a heavy tungsten carbide brick onto a plutonium-gallium alloy bomb core. The 24-year-old Daghlian was irradiated with a large dose of neutron radiation. Later estimates would suggest that this dose might not have been fatal on its own, but he then received additional delayed gamma radiation and beta burns while disassembling his experiment. He quickly collapsed with acute radiation poisoning and died 25 days later in the Los Alamos base hospital.\n\nAfter the war, Slotin expressed growing disdain for his personal involvement in the project. He remarked, \"I have become involved in the Navy tests, much to my disgust.\" Unfortunately for Slotin, his participation at Los Alamos was still required because, as he said, \"I am one of the few people left here who are experienced bomb putter-togetherers.\" He looked forward to resuming teaching and research into biophysics and radiobiology at the University of Chicago. He began training a replacement, Alvin C. Graves, to take over his Los Alamos work.\n\nOn 21 May 1946, with seven colleagues watching, Slotin performed an experiment that involved the creation of one of the first steps of a fission reaction by placing two half-spheres of beryllium (a neutron reflector) around a plutonium core. The experiment used the same plutonium core that had irradiated Harry Daghlian, later called the \"demon core\" for its role in the two accidents. Slotin grasped the upper 228.6 mm (9-inch) beryllium hemisphere with his left hand through a thumb hole at the top while he maintained the separation of the half-spheres using the blade of a screwdriver with his right hand, having removed the shims normally used. Using a screwdriver was not a normal part of the experimental protocol.\n\nAt 3:20 p.m., the screwdriver slipped and the upper beryllium hemisphere fell, causing a \"prompt critical\" reaction and a burst of hard radiation. At the time, the scientists in the room observed the blue glow of air ionization and felt a heat wave. Slotin experienced a sour taste in his mouth and an intense burning sensation in his left hand. He jerked his left hand upward, lifting the upper beryllium hemisphere and dropping it to the floor, ending the reaction. However, he had already been exposed to a lethal dose of neutron radiation. At the time of the accident, dosimetry badges were in a locked box about from the accident. Realizing that no one in the room had their film badges on, \"immediately after the accident Dr. Slotin asked to have the badges taken from the lead box and placed on the critical assembly\". This peculiar response was attributed to \"vertigo\" and was of no value for determining the actual doses received by the men in the room.\n\nOthers in the room at the time included Raemer E. Schreiber, Alvin Cushman Graves, Stanley Allan Kline, Marion Edward Cieslicki, Dwight Smith Young, Theodore P. Perlman, and Pvt. Patrick J. Cleary.\n\nAs soon as Slotin left the building, he vomited, a common reaction from exposure to extremely intense ionizing radiation. Slotin's colleagues rushed him to the hospital, but the radiation damage was irreversible.\n\nBy 25 May 1946, four of the eight men exposed during the incident had been discharged from hospital. The Army doctor responsible for the hospital, Captain Paul Hageman, said that Slotin's, Graves', Kline's and Young's \"immediate condition is satisfactory.\"\n\nDespite intensive medical care and offers from numerous volunteers to donate blood for transfusions, Slotin's condition rapidly deteriorated. Slotin called his parents and they were flown at Army expense from Winnipeg to be with their son. They arrived on the fourth day after the incident, and by the fifth day Slotin's condition started to rapidly deteriorate.\n\nOver the next nine days, Slotin suffered an \"agonizing sequence of radiation-induced traumas\", including severe diarrhea, reduced urine output, swollen hands, erythema, \"massive blisters on his hands and forearms\", intestinal paralysis, and gangrene. He had internal radiation burns throughout his body, which one medical expert described as a \"three-dimensional sunburn.\" By the seventh day, he was experiencing periods of \"mental confusion.\" His lips turned blue and he was put in an oxygen tent. He ultimately experienced \"a total disintegration of bodily functions\" and slipped into a coma. Slotin died at 11 a.m. on 30 May, in the presence of his parents. He was buried in Shaarey Zedek Cemetery, Winnipeg, on 2 June 1946.\n\nGraves, Kline and Young remained hospitalized after Slotin's death. Graves, who was standing the closest to Slotin, also developed acute radiation sickness and was hospitalized for several weeks. He survived, although he lived with chronic neurological and vision problems. Young also suffered from acute radiation syndrome, but recovered. By 28 January 1948 Graves, Kline and Perlman sought compensation for damages suffered during the incident. Graves settled his claim for $3,500.\n\nThree of the observers eventually died of conditions that are known to be promoted by radiation: Graves of a heart attack 20 years later at age 55; Cieslicki of acute myeloid leukemia 19 years later at age 42; and Young of aplastic anemia and bacterial infection of the heart lining 27 years later at age 83. Although some of those deaths were probably latent stochastic (random) effects of the accident, it is not possible to draw any definitive conclusions from such a small sample set.\n\nThe core involved was intended to be used in the Able detonation, during the Crossroads series of nuclear weapon testing. Slotin's experiment was said to be the last conducted before the core's detonation and was intended to be the final demonstration of its ability to go critical. After the criticality accident it needed time to cool. It was therefore rescheduled for the third test of the series, provisionally named \"Charlie\", but this was cancelled due to the unexpected level of radioactivity after the underwater \"Baker\" test and the inability to decontaminate the target warships. It was later melted down and reused in a later core.\n\nThe radiation doses received in these two accidents are not known with any semblance of accuracy. A large part of the dose was due to neutron radiation, which could not be measured by dosimetry equipment of the day. The available equipment, film badges, were not worn by personnel during the accident, and badges that were supposed to be planted under tables in case of disasters like these were not found. Disaster badges hung on the walls did provide some useful data about gamma radiation.\n\nA \"tentative\" estimate of the doses involved was made in 1948, based on dozens of assumptions, some of which are now known to be grossly incorrect. In the absence of personal dosimetry badges, the study authors relied on measurements of sodium activation in the victims' blood and urine samples as their primary source of data. This activation would have been caused by neutron radiation, but they converted all doses to equivalent doses of gamma or X-ray radiation. They concluded that Daghlian and Slotin had probably received doses equivalent to 290 and 880 rem (respectively) of gamma rays. Minimum and maximum estimates varied from about 50% to 200% of these values. The authors also calculated doses equivalent to a mix of soft 80 keV X-rays and gamma rays, which they believed gave a more realistic picture of the exposure than the gamma equivalent. In this model the equivalent X-ray doses were much higher, but would be concentrated in the tissues facing the source, whereas the gamma component penetrated the whole body. Slotin's equivalent dose was estimated to be 1930 R (roentgen) of X-ray with 114 R of gamma, while Daghlian's equivalent dose was estimated to be 480 R of X-ray with 110 R of gamma. Five hundred rem is usually a fatal dose for humans.\n\nIn modern times dosimetry is done very differently. Equivalent doses would not be reported in roentgen; they would be calculated with different weighting factors, and they are not considered as relevant to acute radiation syndrome as absorbed doses. Recent documents have made various interpretations of Slotin's dose, ranging from 287 rad to 21 sievert. Based on citations and supporting reasoning, the most reliable estimate may be a 1978 Los Alamos memo which suggested 10 Gy(n) + 1.14 Gy(γ) for Slotin and 2 Gy(n) + 1.1 Gy(γ) for Daghlian. These doses are consistent with the symptoms they experienced.\n\nAfter the accident, Los Alamos ended all hands-on critical assembly work. Future criticality testing of fissile cores was done with remotely controlled machines, such as the \"Godiva\" series, with the operator located a safe distance away to prevent harm in case of accidents.\n\nOn 14 June 1946, the associate editor of the \"Los Alamos Times\", Thomas P. Ashlock, penned a poem entitled \"Slotin – A Tribute\":\n\nThe official story released at the time was that Slotin, by quickly removing the upper hemisphere, was a hero for ending the critical reaction and protecting seven other observers in the room: \"Dr. Slotin's quick reaction at the immediate risk of his own life prevented a more serious development of the experiment which would certainly have resulted in the death of the seven men working with him, as well as serious injury to others in the general vicinity.\" This interpretation of events was endorsed at the time by Alvin Graves, who stood closest to Slotin when the accident occurred. Graves, like Slotin, had previously displayed a low concern for nuclear safety, and would later allege that fallout risks were \"concocted in the minds of weak malingerers.\" Another witness to the accident, Raemer E. Schreiber, spoke out publicly decades later, arguing that Slotin was using improper and unsafe procedures, endangering the others in the lab along with himself. Robert B. Brode had reported hearsay to that effect back in 1946.\n\nThe event was recounted in Dexter Masters' 1955 novel \"The Accident\", a fictional account of the last few days of the life of a nuclear scientist suffering from radiation poisoning. Depictions of the criticality incident include the 1989 film \"Fat Man and Little Boy\", in which John Cusack plays a fictional character named Michael Merriman based on Slotin, and the \"Louis Slotin Sonata\", a 2001 off-Broadway play directed by David P. Moore.\n\nIn 1948, Slotin's colleagues at Los Alamos and the University of Chicago initiated the \"Louis A. Slotin Memorial Fund\" for lectures on physics given by distinguished scientists such as Robert Oppenheimer and Nobel laureates Luis Walter Alvarez and Hans Bethe. The memorial fund lasted until 1962. In 2002, an asteroid discovered in 1995 was named 12423 Slotin in his honour.\n\nAccording to Weinberg and Wigner, Slotin was the first to propose the name dollar for the interval of reactivity between delayed and prompt criticality; 0 is the point of self-sustaining chain reaction, a dollar is the point at which slowly released, delayed neutrons are no longer required to support chain reaction, and enters the domain called \"prompt critical\". Stable nuclear reactors operate between 0 and a dollar; excursions and nuclear explosives operate above a dollar. The hundredth part of a dollar is called a cent (reactivity). When speaking of purely prompt critical events, some users refer to cents \"over critical\" as a relative unit.\n\n"}
{"id": "26279603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26279603", "title": "Medsafe", "text": "Medsafe\n\nMedsafe, the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority, is the medical regulatory body run by the New Zealand Ministry of Health, administering the Medicines Act 1981 and Medicines Regulations 1984.\n\nMedsafe employs approximately 60 staff members in two offices. The head office, based in Wellington, New Zealand, handles \"centralised administrative functions, product approval, and standard settings.\" The Investigation and Border Control operates out of the Auckland office.\n\n"}
{"id": "5465057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5465057", "title": "Mental environment", "text": "Mental environment\n\nThe mental environment refers to the sum of all societal influences upon mental health.\n\nThe term is often used in a context critical of the mental environment in industrialized societies. It is argued that just as industrial societies produce physical toxins and pollutants which harm humans physical health, they also produce psychological toxins (e.g. television, excessive noise, violent marketing tactics, Internet addiction, social media) that cause psychological damage.\n\nThis poor mental environment may help explain why rates of mental illness are reportedly higher in industrial societies which might also have its roots in poor educational environment and mechanical routinised life present. Magico-religious beliefs are an important contribution of such communal settings. Delusions such as these rooted from childhood are often hard to completely regulate from a person's life. \n\nThe idea has its roots in evolutionary psychology, as the deleterious consequences of a poor mental environment can be explained by the mismatch between the mental environment humans evolved to exist within and the one they exist within today.\n\n\"We live in both a mental and physical environment. We can influence the mental environment around us, but to a far greater extent we are influenced by the mental environment. The mental environment contains forces that affect our thinking and emotions and that can dominate our personal minds.\" - Marshall Vian Summers\n"}
{"id": "218580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218580", "title": "Myelitis", "text": "Myelitis\n\nMyelitis is inflammation of the spinal cord which can disrupt the normal responses from the brain to the rest of the body, and from the rest of the body to the brain. Inflammation in the spinal cord, can cause the myelin and axon to be damaged resulting in symptoms such as paralysis and sensory loss. Myelitis is classified to several categories depending on the area or the cause of the lesion; however, any inflammatory attack on the spinal cord is often referred to as transverse myelitis.\nMyelitis lesions usually occur in a narrow region but can be spread and affect many areas.\n\nOsteomyelitis of the vertebral bone surrounding the spinal cord (that is, vertebral osteomyelitis) is a separate condition, although some infections (for example, \"Staphylococcus aureus\" infection) can occasionally cause both at once. The similarity of the words reflects that the combining form \"myel(o)-\" has multiple (homonymous) senses referring to bone marrow or the spinal cord.\n\nDepending on the cause of the disease, such clinical conditions manifest different speed in progression of symptoms in a matter of hours to days. Most myelitis manifests fast progression in muscle weakness or paralysis starting with the legs and then arms with varying degrees of severity. Sometimes the dysfunction of arms or legs cause instability of posture and difficulty in walking or any movement. Also symptoms generally include paresthesia which is a sensation of tickling, tingling, burning, pricking, or numbness of a person's skin with no apparent long-term physical effect. Adult patients often report pain in the back, extremities, or abdomen. Patients also present increased urinary urgency, bowel or bladder dysfunctions such as bladder incontinence, difficulty or inability to void, and incomplete evacuation of bowel or constipation. Others also report fever, respiratory problems and intractable vomiting.\n\nMyelitis occurs due to various reasons such as infections. Direct infection by viruses, bacteria, mold, or parasites such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), human T-lymphotropic virus types I and II (HTLV-I/II), syphilis, lyme disease, and tuberculosis can cause myelitis but it can also be caused due to non-infectious or inflammatory pathway. Myelitis often follows after the infections or after vaccination. These phenomena can be explained by a theory of autoimmune attack which states that the autoimmune bodies attack its spinal cord in response to immune reaction.\n\nThe theory of autoimmune attack claims that a person with neuroimmunologic disorders have genetic predisposition to auto-immune disorder, and the environmental factors would trigger the disease. The specific genetics in myelitis is not completely understood. It is believed that the immune system response could be to viral, bacterial, fungal, or parasitic infection; however, it is not known why the immune system attacks itself. Especially, for the immune system to cause inflammatory response anywhere in the central nervous system, the cells from the immune system must pass through the blood brain barrier. In the case of myelitis, not only is the immune system dysfunctional, but the dysfunction also crosses this protective blood brain barrier to affect the spinal cord.\n\nMost viral myelitis is acute, but the retroviruses (such as HIV and HTLV) can cause chronic myelitis. Poliomyelitis, or gray matter myelitis, is usually caused by infection of anterior horn of the spinal cord by the enteroviruses (polioviruses, enteroviruses (EV) 70 and 71, echoviruses, coxsackieviruses A and B) and the flaviviruses (West Nile, Japanese encephalitis, tick-borne encephalitis). On the other hand, transverse myelitis or leukomyelitis, or white matter myelitis, are often caused by the herpesviruses and influenza virus. It can be due to direct viral invasion or via immune mediated mechanisms.\n\nBacterial myelitis includes \"Mycoplasma Pneumoniae\", which is a common agent for respiratory tract. Studies have shown respiratory tract infections within 4–39 days prior to the onset of transverse myelitis. Or, tuberculosis, syphilis, and brucellosis are also known to cause myelitis in immune-compromised individuals. Myelitis is a rare manifestation of bacterial infection.\n\nFungi have been reported to cause spinal cord disease either by forming abscesses inside the bone or by granuloma. In general, there are two groups of fungi that may infect the CNS and cause myelitis - primary and secondary pathogens. Primary pathogens include the following: \"Cryptococcus neoformans\", \"Coccidioides immitis\", \"Blastomyces dermatitides\", and \"Hystoplasma capsulatum\". Secondary pathogens are opportunistic agents that primarily infect immunocompromised hosts such as Candida species, Aspergillus species, and zygomycetes.\n\nParasitic species infect human hosts through larvae that penetrate the skin. Then they enter the lymphatic and circulatory system, and migrate to liver and lung. Some reach the spinal cord. Parasitic infections have been reported with Schistosoma species, \"Toxocara canis\", Echinococcus species, \"Taenia solium\", \"Trichinella spiralis\", and Plasmodium species.\n\nIn 2016 it was identified in Mayo clinic an autoimmune form of myelitis due to the presence of anti-GFAP autoantibodies. Immunoglobulins directed against the α-isoform of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP-IgG) predicted an special meningoencephalomyelitis termed autoimmune GFAP Astrocytopathy that later was found also to be able to appear as a myelitis.\n\nConditions associated with myelitis include:\n\n\nMyelitis has an extensive differential diagnosis. The type of onset (acute versus subacute/chronic) along with associated symptoms such as the presence of pain, constitutional symptoms that encompass fever, malaise, weight loss or a cutaneous rash may help identify the cause of myelitis. In order to establish a diagnosis of myelitis, one has to localize the spinal cord level, and exclude cerebral and neuromuscular diseases. Also a detailed medical history, a careful neurologic examination, and imaging studies using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are needed. In respect to the cause of the process, further work-up would help identify the cause and guide treatment. Full spine MRI is warranted, especially with acute onset myelitis, to evaluate for structural lesions that may require surgical intervention, or disseminated disease. Adding gadolinium further increases diagnostic sensitivity. A brain MRI may be needed to identify the extent of central nervous system (CNS) involvement. Lumbar puncture is important for the diagnosis of acute myelitis when a tumoral process, inflammatory or infectious cause are suspected, or the MRI is normal or non-specific. Complementary blood tests are also of value in establishing a firm diagnosis. Rarely, a biopsy of a mass lesion may become necessary when the cause is uncertain. However, in 15–30% of people with subacute or chronic myelitis, a clear cause is never uncovered.\n\nSince each case is different, the following are possible treatments that patients might receive in the management of myelitis.\n\nHigh-dose intravenous methyl-prednisolone for 3–5 days is considered as a standard of care for patients suspected to have acute myelitis, unless there are compelling reasons otherwise. The decision to offer continued steroids or add a new treatment is often based on the clinical course and MRI appearance at the end of five days of steroids.\nPatients with moderate to aggressive forms of disease who do not show much improvement after being treated with intravenous and oral steroids will be treated with PLEX. Retrospective studies of patients with TM treated with IV steroids followed by PLEX showed a positive outcome. It also has been shown to be effective with other autoimmune or inflammatory central nervous system disorders. Particular benefit has been shown with patients who are in the acute or subacute stage of the myelitis showing active inflammation on MRI. However, because of the risks implied by the lumbar puncture procedure, this intervention is determined by the treating physician on a case-by-case basis.\nMyelitis with no definite cause seldom recurs, but for others, myelitis may be a manifestation of other diseases that are mentioned above. In these cases, ongoing treatment with medications that modulate or suppress the immune system may be necessary. Sometimes there is no specific treatment. Either way, aggressive rehabilitation and long-term symptom management are an integral part of the healthcare plan.\n\nCentral nervous system nerve regeneration would be able to repair or regenerate the damage caused to the spinal cord. It would restore functions lost due to the disease.\nCurrently, there exists a hydrogel based scaffold which acts as a channel to deliver nerve growth-enhancing substrates while providing structural support. These factors would promote nerve repairs to the target area. Hydrogels' macroporous properties would enable attachment of cells and enhance ion and nutrient exchange. In addition, hydrogels' biodegradability or bioresolvability would prevent the need for surgical removal of the hydrogel after drug delivery. It means that it would be dissolved naturally by the body's enzymatic reaction.\nThe possibility for nerve regeneration after injury to the spinal cord was considered to be limited because of the absence of major neurogenesis. However, Joseph Altman showed that cell division does occur in the brain which allowed potential for stem cell therapy for nerve regeneration. The stem cell-based therapies are used in order to replace cells lost and injured due to inflammation, to modulate the immune system, and to enhance regeneration and remyelination of axons. Neural stem cells (NSC) have the potential to integrate with the spinal cord because in the recent past investigations have demonstrated their potential for differentiation into multiple cell types that are crucial to the spinal cord. Studies show that NSCs that were transplanted into a demyelinating spinal cord lesion were found to regenerate oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells, and completely remyelinated axons.\n\n"}
{"id": "9430824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9430824", "title": "O'Connor v. Donaldson", "text": "O'Connor v. Donaldson\n\nO'Connor v. Donaldson, 422 U.S. 563 (1975), was a landmark decision in mental health law. The United States Supreme Court ruled that a state cannot constitutionally confine a non-dangerous individual who is capable of surviving safely in freedom by themselves or with the help of willing and responsible family members or friends. Since the trial court jury found, upon ample evidence, that petitioner did so confine respondent, the Supreme Court upheld the trial court's conclusion that petitioner had violated respondent's right to liberty.\n\nKenneth Donaldson (confined patient) had been held for 15 years in Florida State Hospital at Chattahoochee, due to needs of \"care, maintenance, and treatment.\" He filed a lawsuit against the hospital and staff members claiming they had robbed him of his constitutional rights, by confining him against his will. Donaldson won his case (including monetary damages) in United States District Court, won the appeals, and in 1975 the victory was reaffirmed by the Supreme Court.\n\nA finding of \"mental illness\" alone cannot justify a State's locking a person up against his will and keeping him indefinitely in simple custodial confinement. Assuming that that term can be given a reasonably precise content and that the \"mentally ill\" can be identified with reasonable accuracy, there is still no constitutional basis for confining such persons involuntarily if they are dangerous to no one and can live safely in freedom.\n\nThe origins of Donaldson's institutionalization began in 1943, at age 34, when he suffered a traumatic episode. He was hospitalized and received treatment, before resuming life with his family.\n\nIn 1956 Donaldson travelled to Florida to visit his elderly parents. While there, Donaldson reported that he believed one of his neighbors in Philadelphia might be poisoning his food. His father, worried that his son suffered from paranoid delusions, petitioned the court for a sanity hearing. Donaldson was evaluated, diagnosed with \"paranoid schizophrenia,\" and civilly committed to the Florida State mental health system. At his commitment trial, Donaldson did not have legal counsel present to represent his case. Once he entered the Florida hospital, Donaldson was placed with dangerous criminals, even though he had never been proved to be dangerous to himself or others. His ward was understaffed, with only one doctor (who happened to be an obstetrician) for over 1,000 male patients. There were no psychiatrists or counsellors, and the only nurse on site worked in the infirmary.\n\nHe spent 15 years as a patient; he did not receive any treatment, actively refusing it, and attempting to secure his release. Throughout his stay he denied he was ever mentally ill, and refused to be put into a halfway house.\n\nDonaldson later wrote a book about his experience as a mental patient titled \"Insanity Inside Out\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27032017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27032017", "title": "Philip Morris (tobacconist)", "text": "Philip Morris (tobacconist)\n\nPhilip Morris was the son of a recent immigrant to England from Germany who had taken the name Bernard Morris. In 1847, Philip Morris's family opened a tobacco shop on Bond Street in London. By 1854, he had started making his own cigarettes. In 1870, Morris began to produce Philip Morris Cambridge and Philip Morris Oxford Blues (later called Oxford Ovals and Philip Morris Blues). \n\nMorris died of cancer in 1873 while his widow Margaret and brother Leopold Morris carried on his cigarette trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "57541984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57541984", "title": "Port Moresby General Hospital", "text": "Port Moresby General Hospital\n\nPort Moresby General Hospital (PMGH) is the largest hospital in Papua New Guinea. It is located in Korobosea, a suburb of Port Moresby in the National Capital District. A major teaching hospital, it is adjacent to the University of Papua New Guinea's School of Medicine and Health Sciences. \n"}
{"id": "53912950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53912950", "title": "Preventive nutrition", "text": "Preventive nutrition\n\nPreventive nutrition is a branch of nutrition science with the goal of preventing or delaying or reducing the impacts of disease and disease-related complications. It is concerned with a high level of personal well-being, disease prevention, and diagnosis of recurring health problems or symptoms of discomfort which are often precursors to health issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "864489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864489", "title": "Primary sclerosing cholangitis", "text": "Primary sclerosing cholangitis\n\nPrimary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a long-term progressive disease of the liver and gallbladder characterized by inflammation and scarring of the bile ducts which normally allow bile to drain from the gallbladder. Affected individuals may have no symptoms or may experience signs and symptoms of liver disease such as yellow discoloration of the skin and eyes, itching, and abdominal pain.\nThe bile duct scarring which occurs in PSC narrows the ducts of the biliary tree and impedes the flow of bile to the intestines. Eventually, it can lead to cirrhosis of the liver and liver failure. PSC increases the risk of various cancers including liver cancer, gallbladder carcinoma, colorectal cancer, and cholangiocarcinoma. The underlying cause of PSC is unknown. Genetic susceptibility, immune system dysfunction, and abnormal composition of the gut flora may play a role. This is further suggested by the observation that approximately 75% of individuals with PSC also have inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), most often ulcerative colitis.\nThere is no effective medical treatment for primary sclerosing cholangitis. The most definitive treatment for PSC is a liver transplant but it can recur after transplantation. Few people affected by PSC require a liver transplant.\nPSC is a rare disease and most commonly affects people with IBD. Approximately 3–7.5% of people with ulcerative colitis have PSC and 80% of people with PSC have some form of IBD. Diagnosis usually occurs in younger people in their 30s or 40s. Individuals of Northern European ancestry are affected more often than people of Southern European or Asian descent. Men are affected more often than women. The disease was initially described in the mid-1800s but was not fully characterized until the 1970s with the advent of improved medical imaging techniques such as endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP).\n\nNearly half of people with PSC do not have symptoms and are often incidentally discovered to have PSC due to abnormal liver function tests, but a substantial proportion will have debilitating signs and symptoms of the disease. Signs and symptoms of PSC may include severe itching and non-specific fatigue. Yellowing of the skin and white portion of the eyes may also be seen. Enlargement of the liver and spleen are seen in approximately 40% of affected individuals. Abdominal pain affects about 20% of people with PSC.\n\nMultiple episodes of life-threatening acute cholangitis (infection within the bile ducts) can be seen due to impaired drainage of the bile ducts, which increases the risk of infection.\n\nThe exact cause of primary sclerosing cholangitis is unknown and its pathogenesis is poorly understood. Although PSC is thought to be an autoimmune disease, it does not demonstrate a clear response to immunosuppressants. Thus, many experts believe it to be a complex, multifactorial (including immune-mediated) disorder and perhaps one that encompasses several different hepatobiliary diseases.\n\nData have provided novel insights suggesting: \nIn addition, there are longstanding, well-recognized associations between PSC and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles (A1, B8, and DR3).\n\nPSC is characterized by inflammation of the bile ducts (cholangitis) with consequent stricturing (i.e., narrowing) and hardening (sclerosis) of these ducts due to scar formation, be it inside and/or outside the liver. The resulting scarring of the bile ducts obstructs the flow of bile, which further perpetuates bile duct and liver injury. Chronic impairment of bile flow due to blockage and dysfunctional bile transport (cholestasis) causes progressive biliary fibrosis and ultimately biliary cirrhosis and liver failure.\n\nThe primary physiological function of bile is to assist in the breakdown and absorption of fat in the intestinal tract; a relative deficiency of bile can lead to fat malabsorption and deficiencies of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, K).\n\nLiver enlargement is seen due to portal hypertension caused by compression of portal veins by the proximate sclerosed intrahepatic bile ducts, and leads to right upper quadrant abdominal pain.\n\nPSC is generally diagnosed on the basis of having at least two of three clinical criteria after secondary causes of sclerosing cholangitis have been ruled out:\n\nHistorically, a cholangiogram would be obtained via endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), which typically reveals \"beading\" (alternating strictures and dilation) of the bile ducts inside and/or outside the liver. Currently, the preferred option for diagnostic cholangiography, given its non-invasive yet highly accurate nature, is magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP), a magnetic resonance imaging technique. MRCP has unique strengths, including high spatial resolution, and can even be used to visualize the biliary tract of small animal models of PSC.\n\nMost people with PSC have evidence of autoantibodies and abnormal immunoglobulin levels. For example, approximately 80% of people with PSC have perinuclear anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (P-ANCA); however, this and other immunoglobulin findings are not specific to those with PSC and are of unclear clinical significance/consequence. Antinuclear antibodies and anti-smooth muscle antibody are found in 20%-50% of PSC patients and, likewise, are not specific for the disease but may identify a subgroup of PSC patients who also have autoimmune hepatitis (i.e. PSC-AIH overlap syndrome).\n\nOther markers which may be measured and monitored are a complete blood count, serum liver enzymes, bilirubin levels (usually grossly elevated), kidney function, and electrolytes. Fecal fat measurement is occasionally ordered when symptoms of malabsorption (e.g., gross steatorrhea) are prominent.\n\nThe differential diagnosis can include primary biliary cholangitis (formerly referred to as primary biliary cirrhosis), drug-induced cholestasis, cholangiocarcinoma, IgG4-related disease, post-liver transplantation non-anastomotic biliary strictures, and HIV-associated cholangiopathy. Primary sclerosing cholangitis and primary biliary cholangitis are distinct entities and exhibit important differences, including the site of tissue damage within the liver, associations with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which includes ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, response to treatment, and risks of disease progression.\n\nPrimary sclerosing cholangitis is typically classified into three subgroups based on whether the small and/or large bile ducts are affected. The subgroups of PSC include the following:\n\nNo pharmacologic treatment has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for PSC. Some experts recommend a trial of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), a bile acid occurring naturally in small quantities in humans, as it has been shown to lower elevated liver enzyme numbers in patients with PSC and has proven effective in other cholestatic liver diseases. However, UDCA has yet to be shown to clearly lead to improved liver histology and survival. Guidelines from the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and the American College of Gastroenterology do not support the use of UDCA but guidelines from the European Association for the Study of the Liver do endorse the use of moderate doses (13-15 milligrams per kilogram) of UDCA for PSC.\n\nSupportive treatment for PSC symptoms is the cornerstone of management. These therapies are aimed at relieving symptoms such as itching with antipruritics (e.g. bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine); antibiotics to treat episodes of ascending cholangitis; and vitamin supplements, as people with PSC are often deficient in fat-soluble vitamins (vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, and vitamin K).\n\nERCP and specialized techniques may also be needed to help distinguish between a benign PSC stricture and a bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma).\n\nLiver transplantation is the only proven long-term treatment of PSC, although only a fraction of individuals with PSC will need it. Indications for transplantation include recurrent bacterial ascending cholangitis, decompensated cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, hilar cholangiocarcinoma, and complications of portal hypertension. Not all patients are candidates for liver transplantation, and some will experience disease recurrence afterward.\n\nEstimated median survival from diagnosis until liver transplant or PSC-related death is 21.3 years. Various models have been developed to help predict survival, but their use is generally best suited for research and not clinical purposes. A serum alkaline phosphatase less than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal has been associated with better outcomes but its utility in predicting long-term outcomes is unclear.\n\nThe development of any of the cancers associated with PSC predicts a poor prognosis. Complications from PSC-associated cancers account for 40% of deaths from PSC. Primary sclerosing cholangitis is one of the major known risk factors for cholangiocarcinoma, a cancer of the biliary tree, for which the lifetime risk among patients with PSC is 10-15%. This represents a 400-fold greater risk of developing cholangiocarcinoma compared to the general population. Surveillance for cholangiocarcinoma in patients with PSC is encouraged, with some experts recommending annual surveillance with a specialized imaging study and serum markers, although consensus regarding the modality and interval has yet to be established. Similarly, a screening colonoscopy is recommended in people who receive a new diagnosis of primary sclerosing cholangitis since their risk of colorectal cancer is 10 times higher than that of the general population.\n\nPSC is strongly associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), in particular ulcerative colitis (UC) and to a lesser extent Crohn's disease. As many as 5% of patients with IBD are co-diagnosed with PSC and approximately 70% of people with PSC have IBD. Of note, the presence of colitis appears to be associated with a greater risk of liver disease progression and bile duct cancer (cholangiocarcinoma) development, although this relationship remains poorly understood. Close monitoring of PSC patients is vital.\n\nVarious forms of gallbladder disease such as gallstones and gallbladder polyps are also common in those with PSC. Approximately 25% of people with PSC have gallstones. Ultrasound surveillance of the gallbladder every year is recommended for people with PSC. Any person with PSC who is found to have a mass in the gallbladder should undergo surgical removal of the gallbladder due to the high risk of cholangiocarcinoma. Osteoporosis (hepatic osteodystrophy) and hypothyroidism are also associated with PSC.\n\nThere is a 2-3:1 male-to-female predilection in primary sclerosing cholangitis. PSC can affect men and women at any age, although it is commonly diagnosed in the fourth decade of life, most often in the presence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). PSC progresses slowly and is often asymptomatic, so it can be present for years before it is diagnosed and before it causes clinically significant consequences. There is relatively little data on the prevalence and incidence of primary sclerosing cholangitis, with studies in different countries showing annual incidence of 0.068–1.3 per 100,000 people and prevalence 0.22–8.5 per 100,000; given that PSC is closely linked with ulcerative colitis, it is likely that the risk is higher in populations where UC is more common. In the United States, an estimated 29,000 individuals have PSC.\n\nAlthough there is no curative treatment, several clinical trials are underway that aim to slow progression of this liver disease. Obeticholic acid is being investigated as a possible treatment for PSC due to its antifibrotic effects. Simtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody against the pro-fibrotic enzyme LOXL2 that is being developed as a possible therapy for PSC.\n\n"}
{"id": "29269224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29269224", "title": "REACH Ghana", "text": "REACH Ghana\n\nREACH Ghana a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation based in Accra, Ghana and Washington DC. REACH, a backronym that stands for the Representatives for Equal Access to Community Health-care, is a network of over 100 professionals, students and individuals that collaborate on health-care projects in Ghana. The organization currently has working groups involved in projects in HIV/AIDS, malaria, health education, clean water and a health-targeted economic sustainability project.\n\nThe organization is advised by experts in the medical and public health fields such as Paul Farmer, the Maude and Lillian Presley Professor of Global Health at Harvard Medical School.\n"}
{"id": "48707885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48707885", "title": "Royal Australasian College of Medical Administrators", "text": "Royal Australasian College of Medical Administrators\n\nThe Royal Australasian College of Medical Administrators (RACMA) is an accredited specialist medical college comprising medical practitioners with specialist training in management and leadership of health services and systems. Fellows of the college combine clinical knowledge, skill, and judgement and apply this at an organisation wide level. This may include administering or managing a hospital or other health service, or developing health operational policy, or planning or purchasing health services. The college is responsible for the training of medical professionals as specialist health leaders in Australia and New Zealand and has responsibility for assessing candidates and awarding the qualification of Fellowship of the College (FRACMA) to medical practitioners.\n\nThe Royal Australasian College of Medical Administrators was founded in 1967 in response to the emergence of medical leadership as a specialty in its own right.\nThere are currently more than 800 Fellows of the College made up of medical specialists from diverse positions in public hospital networks, government, and private organisations.\nThe College reports that its roles are:\n\nRACMA is a member, and current chair of the Steering Committee, of the World Federation of Medical Managers.\n\nThe college formed as the Australian College of Medical Administrators (ACMA) on 21 March 1967 with 279 founding fellows. On 6 August 1979, royal assent was granted for use of the prefix 'Royal' to the Australian College of Medical Administrators. In 1998, the college formed links with New Zealand and the college was renamed to the current Royal Australasian College of Medical Administrators.\n\nThe College was formally recognised by the National Specialist Qualification Advisory Committee in 1980 as the appropriate examining body for the specialty of medical administration, rendering Fellowship a nationally recognised specialist medical qualification.\n\nThe Royal Australasian College of Medical Administrators is a Company Limited by Guarantee governed under a constitution adopted in 2010. The College National office is located in Melbourne.\n\nCandidates complete a three-year Fellowship to be admitted as a Fellow of the RACMA (FRACMA). Candidates undertake a master's degree in Health Management or Public Health.\nRACMA allows graduates of other medical specialty colleges to undertake a one-year Associate Fellowship to be admitted as an Associated Fellow of the RACMA (AFRACMA).\n\nTrainees undertaking the Fellowship of the Australasian College for Emergency Medicine may undertake an elective rotation in a RACMA training post.\n\nThe RACMA publishes: \n\nThe RACMA hosts an annual conference each year, inviting submissions on a chosen area of medical leadership and management. The 2016 Conference, held in Brisbane from 12-14 October, focused on Harm Free Healthcare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26244753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26244753", "title": "Suicide in the United States", "text": "Suicide in the United States\n\nSuicide is a major national public health issue in the United States. In 2016, there were 44,965 recorded suicides, up from 42,773 in 2014, according to the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS). On average, adjusted for age, the annual U.S. suicide rate increased 24% between 1999 and 2014, from 10.5 to 13.0 suicides per 100,000 people, the highest rate recorded in 28 years. Due to the stigma surrounding suicide, it is suspected that it generally is underreported. In April 2016, the CDC released data showing that the suicide rate in the United States had hit a 30-year high, and later in June 2018, released further data showing that the rate has continued to increase and has increased in every U.S. state except Nevada since 1999.\n\nIn 2015, suicide was the seventh leading cause of death for males and the 14th leading cause of death for females. Additionally, it was the second leading cause of death for young people aged 15 to 24 and the third leading cause of death for those between the ages of 10 and 14. From 1999 to 2010, the suicide rate among Americans aged 35 to 64 increased nearly 30 percent. The largest increases were among men in their fifties, with rates rising nearly 50 percent, and for women aged 60 to 64, with rates rising 60 percent. In 2008, it was observed that U.S. suicide rates, particularly among middle-aged white women, had increased, although the causes were unclear.\n\nThe American Foundation for Suicide Prevention reported that in 2016 suicide was the 10th leading cause of death in the U.S., imposing a cost of $69 billion to the US annually. Other statistics reported are:\nThe U.S. government seeks to prevent suicides through its National Strategy for Suicide Prevention, a collaborative effort of Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institutes of Health, Health Resources and Services Administration, and Indian Health Service. Their plan consists of eleven goals aimed at preventing suicides. Older adults are disproportionately likely to die by suicide. Some U.S. jurisdictions have laws against suicide or against assisting suicide. In recent years, there has been increased interest in rethinking these laws. These policies focus on the recovery of the individual through the treatment of the mental disease. The aim is to assure the wellness and the health of the person affected as well as make sure that they recover and take advantage of their all potential.\n\nSuicide has been associated with tough economic conditions, including unemployment rate.\n\nThere are significant variations in the suicide rates of the different states, ranging from 28.24 per 100,000 people in Wyoming to 7.81 per 100,000 people in New York.\n\nApproximately half of suicides are committed using a firearm, accounting for two-thirds of all firearm deaths. Firearms were used in 56.9% of suicides among males in 2016, making it the most commonly used method by them.\n\nThe National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS) keeps data on U.S. suicides.\n\nBased on the NVDRS 2016 data, the \"New York Times\" acknowledged that, among men, those over 65—who make up a smaller proportion of the population—are at greatest risk of death by suicide. The NVDRS 2015 data showed that, among men of all races, men over 65 were the most likely to commit suicide (27.67 suicides per 100,000), closely followed by men 40–64 (27.10 suicides per 100,000). Men 20–39 (23.41 per 100,000) and 15–19 (13.81 per 100,000) were less likely to commit suicide.\n\nThere have been many high-profile incidents in the United States in the 1990s, 2000s and 2010s of individuals thought to be attempting \"suicide by cop\" or killing others before killing themselves. Examples include the 1999 Columbine High School massacre, the 2007 Virginia Tech massacre, the 2010 Austin plane crash, the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting and the 2014 Isla Vista killings.\n\nThere are significant variations in the suicide rates of the different states. A number of theories for these differences have been suggested, ranging from socioeconomics to access to firearms and isolation (low population densities), and a study in 2011 found a correlation between altitude above sea level and suicide.\n\nA 2009 U.S. Army report indicates military veterans have double the suicide rate of non-veterans, and more active-duty soldiers have died from suicide than in combat in the Iraq War (2003–2011) and War in Afghanistan (2001–2014). Colonel Carl Castro, director of military operational medical research for the Army noted \"there needs to be a cultural shift in the military to get people to focus more on mental health and fitness.\" In 2012, the US Army reported 185 suicides among active-duty troops, exceeding the number of combat deaths in that year (176). This figure has significantly increased since 2001, when the number of suicides was 52.\n\nAttempted suicide rates for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) youth and adults in the U.S. are three times higher than national averages.\n\nPatients with chronic pain are twice as likely to attempt suicide compared with those without chronic pain.\n\nStudies have found very high rates of suicide in people with autism spectrum disorders, including high functioning autism and what was formerly known as Asperger syndrome. Autism and particularly Asperger syndrome are highly associated with clinical depression and as many as 30 percent or more of people with Asperger syndrome also suffer from depression.\n\nAutism has been found to be closely related to fibromyalgia, a common chronic pain disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "13210714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13210714", "title": "The Gift (2007 TV program)", "text": "The Gift (2007 TV program)\n\nThe Gift is an Australian observational documentary television program that aired on the Nine Network at , Thursdays. It was narrated by \"60 Minutes\" journalist Tara Brown. \"The Gift\" explores the stories and importance of organ donation in Australia. A second series aired at 9:00pm Wednesdays, debuting on 12 August 2009.\n"}
{"id": "42728174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42728174", "title": "Thitinart Na Pattalung", "text": "Thitinart Na Pattalung\n\nThitinart Na Pattalung, also stylized as DDnard (, born March 23, 1969) is a self-help guru, healer, entrepreneur and bestselling author of the Life Compass series of books.\n\nTo date, over 1.5million copies of her books, written under the name \"DDnard\", have been sold worldwide.\n\nThitinart is based in Bangpakong, Thailand.\n\nThitinart graduated from the University of London at the age of 20 with two master's degrees in Economics and Business Administration. Following graduation, at the age of 25, she launched her own diamond retail business - opening nine stores in Thailand within one month.\n\nIn 1997, her husband died at the age of 34 of an accident, leaving Thitinart with an 11-month-old son to care for and a debt inheritance of 3 Million US Dollars. It was at this point that she began exploring Buddhist meditation to help provide insight and inner contentment. Within two years, she had managed to pay off the debt.\n\nThitinart retired from the diamond business at the age of 35, and relocated from Bangkok to live a “peaceful life” with her son in Hua Hin and then Sriracha. She spent time volunteering and teaching meditation and spiritual to various organizations, studied Happiness Sciences, Hypnotherapy, NLP, Behavioral Science, and began work on the first title in what would become the Life Compass books series.\n\nHer first book, entitled “The Life Compass”, was published in Thailand in December 2004. Since then, several more books in the Life Compass series have been released. In 2013, the first English language-edition of The Compass of Now was released, published through The Life Compass Ltd. To date, Thitinart's books have sold more than 1.5million copies worldwide.\n\nHer teachings, which blend traditional Buddhist thought with modern mind technique, provide guidance to students and readers on learning how to clear and focus the mind, deal with emotional and anger issues, work through fears and challenges, and find emotional and financial freedom. In 2013, Thitinart demonstrated some of these techniques during an interview with Thai TV presenter Woody Milintachinda on his chat show 'Woody Kerd Ma Kui'.\n\nThitinart is the founder of Life Compass Ltd, which hosts regular meditation retreats throughout the year in Thailand. She also gives speeches at prisons, hospitals, military bases, police forces, temples, schools, universities and government organizations throughout Thailand, and talks at venues worldwide.\n\nIn 2013, Thitinart was selected as one of the '100 Greatest Thinkers of Thailand' by Thai magazine \"A Day Bulletin\". Her story is featured in \"100 Interview The Thinker\" Hard Copy Book.\n\nLife Compass series\n"}
{"id": "1482105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1482105", "title": "Thrombophlebitis", "text": "Thrombophlebitis\n\nThrombophlebitis is a phlebitis (\"inflammation\" of a vein) related to a thrombus (blood clot).\n\nWhen it occurs repeatedly in different locations, it is known as thrombophlebitis migrans, \"(migrating thrombophlebitis)\" \n\nThe following symptoms or signs are often associated with thrombophlebitis, although thrombophlebitis is not restricted to the veins of the legs.\n\nIn terms of complications, one of the most serious occurs when the superficial blood clot is associated with a deeper venous thrombosis; this can then dislodge, traveling through the heart and occluding the dense capillary network of the lungs This is a pulmonary embolism which can be life-threatening to the affected individual.\n\nThrombophlebitis causes include disorders related to increased tendency for blood clotting and reduced speed of blood in the veins such as prolonged immobility; prolonged traveling (sitting) may promote a blood clot leading to thrombophlebitis but this occurs relatively less. High estrogen states such as pregnancy, estrogen replacement therapy, or oral contraceptives are associated with an increased risk of thrombophlebitis. \n\nSpecific disorders associated with thrombophlebitis include superficial thrombophlebitis which affects veins near the skin surface, deep venous thrombosis which affects deeper veins, and pulmonary embolism. Those with familial clotting disorders such as protein S deficiency, protein C deficiency, or factor V Leiden are also at increased risk of thrombophlebitis. Thrombophlebitis can be found in people with vasculitis including Behçet's disease. Thrombophlebitis migrans can be a sign of malignancy - Trousseau sign of malignancy..\n\nThe diagnosis for thrombophlebitis is primarily based on the appearance of the affected area. Frequent checks of the pulse, blood pressure, and temperature may be required. If the cause is not readily identifiable, tests may be performed to determine the cause, including the following:\n\nPrevention consists of walking, drinking fluids and if currently hospitalized, changing of IV lines. Walking is especially suggested after a long period seated, particularly when one travels.\n\nIn terms of treatment for this condition the individual may be advised to do the following: \"raise\" the affected area to decrease swelling, and relieve pressure off of the affected area so it will encounter less pain. In certain circumstances drainage of the clot might be an option. In general, treatment may include the following:\n\nThrombophlebitis occurs almost equally between women and men, though males do have a slightly higher possibility. The average age of developing thrombophlebitis, based on analyzed incidents, is 54 for men and 58 for women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12553109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12553109", "title": "United States Preventive Services Task Force", "text": "United States Preventive Services Task Force\n\nThe United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) is \"an independent panel of experts in primary care and prevention that systematically reviews the evidence of effectiveness and develops recommendations for clinical preventive services\". The task force, a panel of primary care physicians and epidemiologists, is funded, staffed, and appointed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.\n\nThe USPSTF evaluates scientific evidence to determine whether medical screenings, counseling, and preventive medications work for adults and children who have no symptoms.\n\nThe methods of evidence synthesis used by the Task Force have been described in detail. In 2007, their methods were revised.\n\nThe USPSTF explicitly does not consider cost as a factor in its recommendations, and it does not perform cost-effectiveness analyses. American health insurance groups are required to cover, at no charge to the patient, any service that the USPSTF recommends, regardless of how much it costs or how small the benefit is.\n\nThe task force assigns the letter grades A, B, C, D, or I to each of its recommendations, and includes \"suggestions for practice\" for each grade. The Task Force also defined levels of certainty regarding net benefit.\n\nLevels of certainty vary from high to low according to the evidence.\n\n\nThe USPSTF has evaluated many interventions for prevention and found several have an expected net benefit in the general population. \n\nIn 2009, the USPSTF updated its advice for screening mammograms. Screening mammograms, or routine mammograms, are X-rays given to apparently healthy women with no symptoms or evidence of breast cancer in the hope of detecting the disease in an early, easily treatable stage. The advice about using mammography in the presence of symptoms (such as a lump in the breast that can be felt) is unchanged.\n\nThe previous advice was for all women over the age of 40 to receive a mammogram every one to two years. The new advice is more detailed. For women between the ages of 50 and 74, they have recommended routine mammograms once every two years in the absence of symptoms. Most American women who are diagnosed with breast cancer are diagnosed after age 60.\n\nThe USPSTF declared that there is insufficient evidence to make any statement about the use of mammograms in women over the age of 75, as very little research has been performed in this age group.\n\nThe Task Force made no recommendation about routine mammography to screen asymptomatic women aged 40 to 49 years for breast cancer. Patients in this age group should be educated about the risks and benefits of screening, and the decision whether to screen or not should be based on the individual situation and preferences. The old advice was based on \"weak\" evidence for this age group. The new advice is based on improved scientific evidence about the benefits and harms associated with mammography and is consistent with recommendations by the World Health Organization and other major medical bodies. Their recommendation against routine, suspicion-less mammograms for younger women does not change the advice for screening women at above-average risk for developing breast cancer or for testing women who have a suspicious lump or any other symptoms that might be related to breast cancer.\n\nThe change in the recommendation for younger women has been criticized by some physicians and cancer advocacy groups, such as Otis Brawley, the chief medical officer for the American Cancer Society,<ref.\"Task force opposes routine mammograms for women age 40-49\" - Danielle Dellorto, CNN Medical Producer</ref> and praised by physicians and medical organizations that support individualized and evidence-based medicine, such as Donna Sweet, the former chair of the American College of Physicians, who currently serves on its Clinical Efficacy Assessment Subcommittee.\n\nThe USPSTF recommendation, which focuses solely on clinical effectiveness without regard to cost, formally reduces the grade given for evidence quality from \"B\" to \"C\" (limited evidence prevents a one-size-fits-all recommendation) for routine mammograms in women under the age of 50. With a grade C recommendation, physicians are required to consider additional factors, such as the individual woman's personal risk of breast cancer. Pending health care legislation would require insurance companies to cover any and all preventive services that receive an \"A\" or \"B\" grade, but permit them to use discretion on preventive services that receive a worse grade.\n\nThe Vitter amendment to the Mikulski amendment to pending legislation in the U.S. Senate instructs insurers to disregard the task force's recommendation against frequent routine mammograms in asymptomatic younger women, and requires them to provide free annual mammograms, even for low-risk women, based on the outdated 2002 report. This proposal is not yet law and may change. The efforts by politicians to reject the committee's scientific findings have been condemned as an example of unwarranted political interference in scientific research.\n\nIn the current recommendation published in 2012, the Task Force recommended against prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-based screening for prostate cancer. The Task Force gave PCa screening a D recommendation.\n\nA final statement published in 2018 recommends basing the decision to screen on shared decision making in those 55 to 69 years old. It continues to recommend against screening in those 70 and older.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1989, the task force's stated purpose was to \"develop recommendations for primary care clinicians on the appropriate content of periodic health examinations.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56809094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56809094", "title": "Vaginal stenosis", "text": "Vaginal stenosis\n\nVaginal stenosis is an abnormal condition in which the vagina becomes narrower and shorter due to the formation of fibrous tissue. Vaginal stenosis can have a negative impact on sexual dysfunction, dyspareunia and make pelvic exams difficult and painful. The lining of the vagina may also be thinner and drier and contain scar tissue. This condition can result in pain during sexual intercourse or a pelvic exam. Vaginal stenosis is often caused by an episiotomy, radiation therapy to the pelvis or some types of surgery. Chemotherapy can also increase the likelihood of developing vaginal stenosis. Vaginal stenosis can be a defect caused by congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Having an episiotomy is associated with stenosis.\n\nUterine, vaginal, rectal and cervical cancers are often treated with pelvic radiation therapy (RT). Radiation-induced vaginal stenosis can be a side effect of treatment. Causes are external beam radiation therapy (EBRT), or brachytherapy. It is one of the most prevalent side effects of pelvic radiation, affecting about one third of women. Radiation-induced stenosis can be a late reaction to treatment. Damage to the vaginal epithelium causes abnormal collagen production that leads to atrophy, loss of muscle, decreased blood flow, hypoxia, and fibrosis. Pallor, adhesions, and fragility can be observed along with loss of elasticity.\n\nThe inadequate prenatal suppression of adrenal androgens leads to congenital adrenal hyperplasia. This condition can result in the vagia being affected by stenosis as a result.\n\nStenosis of the vagina is treated with vaginal dilator therapy, but the evidence is lacking for its efficacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "40547778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40547778", "title": "Washington Navy Yard shooting", "text": "Washington Navy Yard shooting\n\nThe Washington Navy Yard shooting occurred on September 16, 2013, when a lone gunman, 34-year-old Aaron Alexis, fatally shot 12 people and injured three others in a mass shooting at the headquarters of the Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA) inside the Washington Navy Yard in Southeast Washington, D.C. The attack, which took place in the Navy Yard's Building 197, began around 8:16 a.m. EDT and ended when Alexis was killed by police around 9:25 a.m. EDT.\n\nIt was the second-deadliest mass murder on a U.S. military base, behind only the 2009 Fort Hood shooting.\n\nOn Monday, September 16, Alexis left his hotel and arrived at the Navy Yard in a rented Toyota Prius at around 7:53 a.m., using a valid pass to enter the Yard. He entered Building 197 at 8:08 a.m. through the main entrance, carrying the disassembled shotgun (the barrel and stock of which had been sawed off) in a bag on his shoulder, and went to the fourth floor, where he had conducted work during the prior week. He assembled the shotgun inside a bathroom, then emerged with the gun, crossed a hallway into the building's 4 West area, which is a cubicle area near the atrium, and began shooting at 8:16 a.m. Four people were hit; three of them died, while the fourth, a young woman, survived wounds to the head and hand. At 8:17 a.m., approximately one minute and 30 seconds after the first shots were fired, the first calls to 9-1-1 were made.\n\nBy 8:20 a.m., Alexis had shot and killed eight people on the fourth floor, and he made his way to the third floor, where he fatally shot two more people within the next two minutes. He also fired at several people on at least five separate occasions, wounding one woman in the shoulder as she ran up a stairwell. A NAVSEA employee described encountering a gunman wearing all-blue clothing in a third-floor hallway, saying, \"He just turned and started firing.\" After firing several shots on the third floor, Alexis went to the first floor.\n\nAt 8:23 a.m., officers from the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department and several other law enforcement agencies began arriving at Building 197. However, because there were many buildings on the base, officers were unable to discern Building 197's location and asked bystanders for its location. They eventually found Building 197 after moving towards the direction people were fleeing from. There was also confusion regarding the shooting also taking place in a nearby building; in reality, a wounded victim evacuated from Building 197 had been moved to an area located near the second building for medical attention. The United States Capitol Police became embroiled in a public controversy when the police union accused the agency of ordering its personnel to stand down and not respond to the shooting.\n\nWhile on the first floor, the shooter moved around randomly before turning around and heading towards the front entrance. There, he fired at Richard Ridgell, the security officer stationed there, through a set of windows, killing him and taking his Beretta 92FS 9mm semiautomatic pistol afterwards. Ridgell, a former Maryland state trooper, had earlier been informed by two police officers to remain at his post and try to stop the gunman if he attempted to leave the building. The shooter then fired his shotgun at a second security guard and a Navy military police officer at the first-floor atrium, missing both; the security guard fired back and the shooter fled down a hallway. Shortly afterwards, the shooter fired at two police officers and a Naval Criminal Investigative Service agent in another hallway before fleeing again.\n\nAt 8:34 a.m., the shooter went towards the west side of the building, where he encountered two men standing at a corner of the building in an alleyway. He tried to fire at them with his shotgun, but realized he was out of ammunition and switched to the stolen Beretta, shooting and killing one of the men with it; the other man managed to escape without injury. Reports indicated the victim in the alleyway was hit by a \"stray bullet\". The shooter's use of the pistol during the alleyway shooting led police officials to initially believe the possibility of a second gunman involved.\n\nAfter killing his final victim, the shooter moved to a cubicle area, where he discarded the shotgun. At the same time, a team of officers entered Building 197, but they became confused after gunshots echoed through the atrium, leading them to believe the gunman was on an upper floor. As a result, the officers headed up to the second floor, while the shooter remained on the first floor. At approximately 8:55 a.m., the shooter went to the third floor via stairwell and concealed himself inside a bank of cubicles. At 9:12 a.m., two officers and two NCIS agents entered the cubicle area, whereupon the shooter opened fire on them, hitting one of the officers, Scott Williams, in both legs. The other officer and the NCIS agents dragged Williams out of the area and alerted other officers to the shooter's presence. Williams was later taken down to the first floor for medical attention, recovering from his wounds.\n\nAt 9:15 a.m., soon after Williams' evacuation, D.C. Police Emergency Response Team officer Dorian DeSantis and U.S. Park Police officers Andrew Wong and Carl Hiott entered the cubicle area and searched the individual banks. Eventually, the shooter jumped out from one of the desks and fired at DeSantis from approximately five feet away, hitting him once in his tactical vest, and the three officers returned fire. DeSantis was uninjured by the gunshot. At 9:25 a.m., the shooter was fatally shot in the head by DeSantis, and his death was later confirmed at 11:50 a.m.\n\nThere were 13 fatalities, including the perpetrator. The shooter and 11 of the victims were killed at the scene, while a twelfth victim, 61-year-old Vishnu Pandit, died at George Washington University Hospital. All the victims killed were civilian employees or contractors. Eight others were injured, three of them from gunfire. The survivors wounded by gunshots (police officer Scott Williams and two female civilians) were in critical condition at Washington Hospital Center.\n\n\nAaron Alexis (May 9, 1979September 16, 2013), a 34-year-old civilian contractor, was identified by police as the sole gunman. Alexis was killed in a gunfight with police.\n\nBorn in the New York City borough of Queens, Alexis grew up in Brooklyn and was a resident of Fort Worth, Texas. He joined the United States Navy in May 2007, and served in Fleet Logistics Support Squadron 46 at Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth. His rating was aviation electrician's mate and he had attained the rank of petty officer third class when he was honorably discharged from the Navy on January 31, 2011, although the Navy originally intended for him to receive a general discharge.\n\nAccording to a Navy official, Alexis was cited on at least eight occasions for misconduct. In 2010, he was arrested in Fort Worth for discharging a weapon within city limits. Alexis was also arrested in 2004 in Seattle, Washington for malicious mischief, after shooting out the tires of another man's vehicle in what he later described as the result of an anger-fueled \"blackout\"; and in 2008 in DeKalb County, Georgia for disorderly conduct. None of Alexis' arrests led to prosecution.\n\nIn March 2008, Alexis received a secret-level security clearance valid for ten years. Following the Navy Yard shooting, it was found that the federal personnel report that led to the clearance's approval did not mention that his 2004 arrest had involved a firearm. On his clearance application, Alexis said he had never been charged with a felony, and that he had not been arrested in the last seven years; the personnel report said Alexis had given these answers because the 2004 charge had been dismissed. This security clearance investigation was conducted by USIS, the same contractor that had also vetted Edward Snowden. The Department of Justice has filed fraud charges against USIS in a whistleblower case that is filed as \"United States of America ex rel. Blake Percival vs USIS\".\n\nFrom September 2012 to January 2013, Alexis worked in Japan, \"refreshing computer systems\" on the Navy Marine Corps Intranet network for an HP Enterprise Services subcontracting company called The Experts. After returning from Japan, he expressed frustration to a former roommate that he felt he had not been paid properly for the work he performed. Another roommate of Alexis said that he would frequently complain about being the victim of discrimination. In July 2013, he resumed working for The Experts in the United States.\n\nAt the time of his death, Alexis was working on a bachelor's degree in aeronautics from Embry–Riddle Aeronautical University, Worldwide. He was Buddhist.\n\nAfter the Navy Yard shooting, the media speculated that Alexis had appeared to be suffering from mental illness. The media reported that Alexis had filed a police report in Rhode Island on August 2, 2013, in which he claimed to be the victim of harassment and that he was hearing voices in his head. According to an FBI official after the shooting, Alexis was under the \"belief that he was being controlled or influenced by extremely low frequency electromagnetic waves\". A message later obtained by federal authorities from Alexis' personal computing devices said, \"Ultra low frequency attack is what I've been subject to for the last 3 months. And to be perfectly honest, that is what has driven me to this.\"\n\nOn August 4, 2013, naval police were called to Alexis' hotel at Naval Station Newport and found that he had \"taken apart his bed, believing someone was hiding under it, and observed that Alexis had taped a microphone to the ceiling to record the voices of people that were following him\". At the time of the incident, he was working for the contractor at the base.\n\nOn August 23, 2013, Alexis showed up at a Providence, Rhode Island VA emergency room complaining of insomnia, and he was prescribed 50 milligrams of Trazodone, a serotonin antagonist and reuptake inhibitor antidepressant. On August 28, he sought treatment for insomnia in the emergency room of a VA medical center in Washington, D.C. where he told doctors he was not depressed and was not thinking of harming others. He was given 10 more tablets of Trazodone.\n\nAt the time of the shooting, Alexis had been working for a subcontractor on a Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Services contract supporting a Navy Marine Corps (NMCI) computer network. Alexis arrived in the Washington, D.C., area on or around August 25, 2013, and stayed at various hotels. At the time of the massacre, he had been staying with five other civilian contractors at a Residence Inn hotel in southwest Washington D.C. since September 7.\n\nOn Saturday, September 14, two days before the massacre, Alexis visited the Sharpshooters Small Arms Range in Lorton, Virginia, south of Washington. He tested an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle but did not seek to buy it, a lawyer for the store said. After testing the rifle, Alexis inquired about buying a handgun at the store, but was told federal law does not allow dealers to sell such guns directly to out-of-state customers. Alexis instead purchased a Remington 870 Express Tactical 12-gauge shotgun and two boxes of shells, after passing a state and federal background check. Before the shooting, Alexis sawed off the shotgun and scratched the phrases \"Better off this way!\", \"My ELF weapon!\", \"Not what yall say!\", and \"End to the torment!\" onto the gun's receiver.\n\nOn the day of the shooting, Washington Chief of Police Cathy L. Lanier initially said that police were searching for a white male wearing khaki military fatigues and a beret, who had allegedly been seen with a handgun, and a black male wearing olive military fatigues and carrying a long gun. The white male was later identified and deemed not to be a suspect. The black male was not identified. At 7:00 p.m., officials ruled out the possibility of other shooters, but were still seeking one other person for possible involvement.\n\nOn September 16, many roadways and bridges were temporarily closed, and flights out of Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport were temporarily suspended. Eight schools were locked down, with the closest, Brent Elementary School, being locked down until 1 PM. Shortly after 3:00 p.m., United States Senate buildings went on lock-down for about an hour \"out of an abundance of caution\", according to the Senate Sergeant at Arms. The Washington Nationals baseball team postponed their scheduled evening game, owing to the proximity of Nationals Park to the Navy Yard area (the facilities are close enough to share a Metro station).\n\nThe Navy Yard reopened and resumed usual operations on September 19, 2013. Building 197 reopened on February 2, 2015. In October 2013, the Navy announced a repair-and-restoration contract for the building; the contract indicated that \"the repairs shall be done in a manner that changes the feel, finish, appearance and layout of the space, creating a different sense of place and mitigating the psychological and emotional impacts that the facility itself could have on returning occupants\". The building, renamed after Joshua Humphreys, reopened in 2015. The renovations, costing approximately $44 million, include a reflection area and new visitors' entrance, new flooring and furnishings and an updated cafeteria.\n\nShortly after news of the shooting broke, United States President Barack Obama pledged to ensure the perpetrators would be held responsible. Obama ordered flags at the White House, all public buildings and all military and naval posts, stations and vessels to be flown at half-staff until sunset on September 20. On September 17, Department of Defense officials laid a wreath at the Navy Memorial plaza in honor of the victims. In the wake of the shooting, President Obama called on Congress to revisit gun control legislation. On September 22, he attended a memorial service for the victims.\n\nThe shooting sparked a discussion on the adequacy of security at U.S. military facilities. On September 18, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel ordered a review of security procedures at military facilities around the world. \"Foreign Policy\" magazine reported that virtually anyone with a Common Access Card (C.A.C.), provided to government contractors, civilian Defense Department employees, and soldiers, can enter many military facilities \"without being patted down or made to go through a metal detector\". The shooter had a \"Secret\"-level security clearance and a C.A.C. allowing him to enter the Navy Yard. Conservative commentators including Alex Jones, Ted Nugent, and others suggested that \"gun-free zones\" on military bases were to blame for the massacre. On NBC's Meet the Press, National Rifle Association leader Wayne LaPierre said, \"when the good guys with guns got there, it stopped.\" In the libertarian \"Reason\" magazine, J.D. Tuccille said that on domestic U.S. military bases, most soldiers are prohibited from carrying guns, and that this made the base more vulnerable to an attack.\n\nOn September 17, gun control activists and relatives of victims of shootings that occurred at Sandy Hook Elementary School; Aurora, Colorado; and the Oak Creek, Wisconsin Sikh temple, came to Washington to protest for stricter gun control. The activists said they hoped that the Navy Yard attack's proximity to Capitol Hill would motivate lawmakers to act to impose stricter background checks and close the gun show loophole.\n\nOn September 25, 2013, Hewlett Packard fired the computer firm The Experts, which employed the shooter, over \"its failure to respond appropriately\" to the Washington Navy Yard shooter's mental health issues.\n\nOn October 31 and December 17, 2013, the Senate's Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs held hearings examining government clearances, background checks, and physical security for federal facilities in the wake of the shootings.\n\nOn February 20, 2014, a ceremony was held to honor the over 170 law enforcement officers, including 57 D.C. Metropolitan Police officers, who responded and entered the building to search for the shooter. Specifically, MPD Officers Scott Williams and Dorian DeSantis were given the Medal of Valor, U.S. Park Police Medal of Honor, and the Blue Badge Medal for their roles during the gun battle.\n\n"}
{"id": "9721296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9721296", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Argentina", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Argentina\n\nDrinking water supply and sanitation in Argentina is characterized by relatively low tariffs, mostly reasonable service quality, low levels of metering and high levels of consumption for those with access to services. At the same time, according to the WHO, 21% of the total population remains without access to house connections and 52% of the urban population do not have access to sewerage. The responsibility for operating and maintaining water and sanitation services rests with 19 provincial water and sewer companies, more than 100 municipalities and more than 950 cooperatives, the latter operating primarily in small towns. Among the largest water and sewer companies are Agua y Saneamientos Argentinos (AYSA) and Aguas Bonarenses S.A. (ABSA), both operating in Greater Buenos Aires, Aguas Provinciales de Santa Fe, and Aguas Cordobesas SA, all of them now publicly owned. In 2008 there were still a few private concessions, such as Aguas de Salta SA, which is majority-owned by Argentine investors, and Obras Sanitarias de Mendoza (OSM).\n\nMost service providers barely recover operation and maintenance costs and have no capacity to self-finance investments. While private operators were able to achieve higher levels of cost recovery, since the Argentine financial crisis in 2002 tariffs have been frozen and the self-financing capacity of utilities has disappeared. Roughly two-thirds of provincial water and sanitation spending since 2002 has come from general transfers from the federal government, the remainder coming from various national programs directed specifically to the sector.\n\nServices are regulated by the 23 Provinces, in the case of 14 through regulatory agencies that have some limited autonomy from the government. Overall, however, responsibilities are not always clearly defined, and institutions are often weak, subject to political interference and lacking enforcement powers. The various national institutions with policy-setting responsibilities in the sector are not always well coordinated. There is no coherent national policy in terms of sector financing, subsidies, tariffs and service standards. The federal structure of the country and the dispersion of sector responsibilities between and within various levels of government make the development of a coherent sector policy all the more difficult.\n\nBetween 1991 and 1999, as part of one of the world's largest privatization programs covering a range of sectors, water and sanitation concessions with the private sector were signed covering 28% of the country's municipalities and 60% of the population. The highest profile concession was signed in 1993 with a consortium led by the French firm Suez for the central parts of Greater Buenos Aires. After the 2001 economic crisis, many concessions were renegotiated. Many were terminated, as it was the case in Buenos Aires in 2006.\n\nThe impact of private sector participation in water and sanitation is a controversial topic. While the public perception of the mostly international concessionaires is overwhelmingly negative in Argentina, some studies show positive impacts. For example, a 2002 study assessed the impact of privatization on child mortality based on household survey data, finding that child mortality fell 5 to 7 percent more in areas that privatized compared to those that remained under public or cooperative management. The authors estimate that the main reason is the massive expansion of access to water. According to Suez, the private concession in Buenos Aires extended access to water to 2 million people and access to sanitation to 1 million people, despite a freeze in tariffs imposed by the government in 2001 in violation of the concession agreement. The government argues that the concessionaire did not fully comply with its obligations concerning expansion and quality, saying that the supplied water had high levels of nitrate, pressure obligations were not kept and scheduled works were not carried out.\n\nIn Argentina, in 2015, 99% of the population had access to \"special\" water, 98.9% in urban areas and 99.9% in rural areas. Still, in 2015, around 390 thousand lacked access to \"improved\" water. Regarding access to \"improved\" sanitation it includes 96% of the population, 96% and 98%, in urban and rural areas, respectively. Approximately, 1.5 million of people were still without access to \"improved\" sanitation, in 2015.\n\"Source\": Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation of WHO/UNICEF.\n\nAccording to a study by the \"Centro de Implementación de Políticas Públicas para la Equidad y el Crecimiento\" (CIPPEC) or Center for Implementation of Public Policies for Equity and Growth, the increase of coverage between 1991 and 2001 was lower in the poorest provinces.\n\nIn urban areas of Argentina, service is generally continuous and of potable quality. However, water rationing occurs in some cities during the summer months, and drinking water quality is sometimes sub-standard.\n\nIn Buenos Aires, in 2008 there were two water treatment plants and a new one was about to begin.\n\nConcerning sanitation, existing sewage collection systems are insufficient to handle the increasing flows as a growing number of households connect to the sewer systems, leading to frequent sewer overflows.\n\nThe level of wastewater treatment varies among the Argentinean regions. According to the Pan American Health Organization, at the national level 10% of the collected wastewater was being treated in 2000. Whereas in many regional capitals, such as Mendoza, Córdoba, Tucumán, Neuquén, Jujuy, Salta and San Juan, most of the wastewater was treated, in the two largest urban areas of the country, Buenos Aires and Rosario, there was practically no treatment at all, resulting in serious environmental problems. However, in 2008 a bidding process was launched to build a wastewater treatment plant in Buenos Aires.\n\nFrom 1880 until 1980, the national utility \"Obras Sanitarias de la Nación\" (OSN) was in charge of providing water and sewer services in the main cities, while in smaller cities it was the responsibility of provincial governments, municipalities and cooperatives.\n\nIn 1980 the military government under Jorge Rafael Videla decentralized the provision of water and sanitation services in the main cities served by OSN, except for the metropolitan area of Buenos Aires where OSN continued to provide services. In other cities OSN transferred its responsibilities to provincial governments. Each province chose its model of service provision (municipal, public enterprises, cooperatives or others).\n\nBetween 1991 and 1999 under the government of Carlos Menem, as part of one of the worlds largest privatization programs covering a range of sectors, water and sanitation concessions with the private sector were signed in 28% of the country's municipalities covering 60% of the population. The highest profile concession was signed in 1993 with a consortium led by the French firm Suez for the metropolitan area of Buenos Aires. After the 2001 economic crisis, under the government of Néstor Kirchner, many concessions were renegotiated. Some were even terminated and the responsibility for service provision reverted to public entities, as it was the case in Buenos Aires where the newly created public enterprise \"Aguas y Saneamientos Argentinos\" took over the responsibility for service provision in 2006. At the beginning of 2008, the government of the Province of Mendoza announced that it is interested in increasing its control of the provincial water utility \"Obras Sanitarias de Mendoza\", of which it owns 20%, buying another 20% from Saur International.\n\nSo far there has been no comprehensive, objective assessment of the impact of private sector participation in water supply and sanitation in Argentina. However, there has been some partial evidence. For example, a 2002 study assessed the impact of privatization on child mortality based on household survey data, finding that in the 1991-1997 period child mortality fell 5 to 7 percent more in areas that privatized compared to those that remained under public or cooperative management. It also found that the effect was largest in poorest areas (24%). The authors estimate that the main reason is the massive expansion of access to water, which was concentrated in poorer areas that did not receive services before private sector participation was introduced.\n\nThe largest and best-known case of private sector participation in the Argentine water and sanitation sector was the Buenos Aires concession, signed in 1993 and revoked in 2006. Its impact remains controversial and in early 2008 an arbitration case was still pending with the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) of the World Bank Group.\n\nCritics argue that the concessionaire failed to achieve the targets set under the concession contract. When the government rescinded the concession in March 2006, it argued that Aguas Argentinas did not comply with obligations concerning expansion and quality. According to the government, the supplied water had high levels of nitrate, pressure obligations were not kept and scheduled waterworks were not executed by the concessionaire. On the other hand, proponents of private participation state that a freeze in tariffs at the time of the devaluation of the Peso during the Argentinean economic crisis in 2001 substantially reduced the real value of tariff revenues and thus made it difficult to achieve the original targets.\n\nOne factor which may have caused the cancellation of the concession contract was the precipitate preparation. Alcazar et al. list some features of the concession which indicate an overhasty process: \nIn addition, the inexperienced regulatory agency was repeatedly bypassed when decisions were taken, for example in the renegotiation of the contract in 1997. In that way, ETOSS was further weakened. The concession contract authorized Aguas Argentinas to demand dollars at the old 1:1 exchange rate after the peso devaluation. Solanes points out that without this practice companies may seek financing in local capital markets to avoid currency fluctuations. He also argues that the needs of the poor were not addressed in the concession. No subsidies were provided for the poor and the tariff system did not encourage expansion of coverage to poor areas, since new connections were often unaffordable and new users also had to pay the costs of expanding the network.\n\nThe concessionaire did invest much more than its public predecessor and achieved substantial increases in access to water and sewerage. According to the Argentinean economist Sebastian Galiani, the public company OSN had invested only US$25m per year between 1983 and 1993, while the private concessionaire Aguas Argentinas increased investments to around US$200 m per year between 1993 and 2000.\n\nAccording to Suez, during the 13 year-duration of its concession it extended access to water to 2 million people and access to sanitation to 1 million people, despite the economic crisis. Between 2003 and 2005 alone about 100,000 inhabitants of poor neighborhoods and slums are said to have been connected through a \"participatory management model\" piloted by Aguas Argentinas. Aspects of the model have been adopted by the government to extend services to another 400,000 people in La Matanza in the province of Buenos Aires in the project \"Water plus work\" (\"Aguas más trabajo\").\n\nThe government of Salta Province initiated the reform of its water sector in 1996. At the same time many other Argentinean provinces and municipalities brought in the private sector to improve water and sanitation services. While Salta also followed this approach, the process differed somewhat from the one in many other parts of Argentina. First, the provincial government conducted a series of meetings with municipalities and user organizations to discuss the benefits and risks of the concession before it was bid out. This process of consultations was continued by the private concessionaire after the contract was awarded. Second, the government decided from the onset that water and sanitation services in the poor province could not be financed entirely through tariff revenues. It thus decided to finance much of the investments to be undertaken by the private concessionaire with public grants, in addition to providing consumption subsidies. Third, the regulatory agency allowed the concessionaire to provide services at a lower standard in remote or isolated areas that were deemed unprofitable at conventional service standards. Fourth, the provincial regulatory agency granted tariff increases before and even after the 2001 economic crisis. These tariff increases were lower than it would have been necessary without subsidies or flexible service standards. And fifth, the government \"ignored the traditional paradigm of only permitting companies with significant previous experience in water supply and sanitation to compete in the bidding process\". This provision had favored a few large multinational water firms in other bidding processes. In Salta, however, the bid was won by the Argentinean construction, power and toll road enterprise MECON S.A. which signed a technical assistance contract with the Brazilian Paraná State public utility SANEPAR.\n\nThe private concession led to a substantial increase in access to water and sanitation from the time of concession award in 1999 to 2005. It also provided a significant decrease in service interruptions and improved customer service. 13 more municipalities joined the concession contract after it had been signed in order to share in its benefits, bringing the total number of municipalities served by the concessionaire to 56.\n\nWhile most other private water concessions in Argentina were rescinded in the years after the 2001 economic crisis, the Salta concession has been upheld until 2009 despite a number of problems. In February 2008 the regulatory agency initiated penal proceedings against the concessionaire because one of its wastewater treatment plants discharging to the Arenales River was not functioning. In June 2008 the company was accused of not having complied with contractual targets for the installation of meters, water pressure, continuity of supply, drinking water quality norms, and of applying excessive interests on late payments. In May 2009 Juan Manuel Urtubey, governor of the Province, terminated the concession contract because of non-compliance and created a transition unit to provide services until a state company would be created whose shares would be held by the Province (90%) and workers (10%).\n\nProvinces have responsibility for setting rules and policies in the sector for their area. Institutions are weak, subject to political interference and lacking in enforcement powers. 14 out of 23 provinces have regulatory bodies, but they often have limited capacity and unclear institutional responsibilities. In most cases, they act as supervisors of private concession contracts, not covering public and cooperative service providers. This autonomy of provinces resulted in a highly heterogeneous system of water supply and sanitation. Moreover, it hinders to create an overview of the situation at the national level.\nDespite recent progress in clarifying responsibilities, the institutional framework at the national level still lacks coherence and coordination among federal actors is weak. The Ministry of Public Works proposes sector policies to the Ministry of Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services which approves them. Within this policy framework the National Agency for Water and Sanitation Works (ENOHSA), a decentralized agency under the Ministry of Public Works, provides financing and technical assistance to service providers. As an advisor to the Ministry of Public Works it de facto influences sector policies. ENOHSA has also been given the faculty to directly execute infrastructure works. There has been some confusion between its position as conceding power (in the Buenos Aires concession) and as policy-maker for the overall sector. There is no coherent national policy in terms of sector financing, subsidies, tariffs and service standards. Nor is there a sector law for water and sanitation. The federal structure of the country and the dispersion of sector responsibilities between and within various levels of government make the development of a coherent sector policy all the more difficult.\n\nProvision of water and sanitation supply in Argentina is organized on a municipal or provincial basis by around 1,650 public, cooperative and private entities of various forms. 14 service providers are provincial (Argentina has 23 provinces), but do not necessarily serve the entire province. Some are multi-municipal, some serve a single municipality and others parts of a municipality. There are at least 990 mostly smaller cooperative service providers in Argentina, making Argentina the country in Latin America where this form of service provision is most prevalent.\n\nIn 2000, the Argentinean water and sanitation tariff levels were high, given the low quality of services. According to the Panamerican Health Organization (PAHO), the mean tariff for water and sanitation was US$0.79 per m3. There are two different tariff systems. The first method is based on the former OSN tariff system. It estimates the consumption of each user according to characteristics such as dwelling size, location of residence and type of dwelling. The second tariff system contains a fixed charge and a variable part which is based on metered consumption. This latter method was made possible by the extensive introduction of water metering, which was included in many concession contracts in the 1990s. The average household expenditure for water supply and sanitation in 2002 was 2.6%, ranging from 2.1% in the highest (wealthiest) quintile to 3.5% in the lowest (poorest) one.\n\nMost service providers barely recover operation and maintenance costs and have no capacity to self-finance investments. While private operators were able to achieve higher levels of cost recovery and to substantially expand services before the crisis, since 2002 their tariffs have been frozen and their self-financing capacity has disappeared. Service providers thus are almost entirely dependent on federal transfers for investment financing. Roughly two-thirds of provincial water and sanitation spending over the period has come from general transfers from the federal government, the remainder coming from various programs directed specifically to the sector, including for flood protection and water resources management.\n\nWhen the linkage of the Argentinean peso to the US-Dollar was abandoned due to a serious economic crisis in 2002, the tariffs did not increase but converted 1 to 1 to the devalued peso, resulting in various contract renegotiations. This decision worsened the financial situation of the suppliers. The lack of financial resources results in problems concerning even in maintaining the supply system.\n\nCutting off water services for non-payment is prohibited in Argentina based on a common interpretation of the constitution.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8798290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8798290", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in the European Union", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in the European Union\n\nWater supply and sanitation (WSS) in the European Union (EU) is the responsibility of each member state, but in the 21st century union-wide policies have come into effect. Water resources are limited and supply and sanitation systems are under pressure from urbanisation and climate change. Indeed, the stakes are high as the European Environmental Agency found that one European out of ten already suffers a situation of water scarcity and the IEA measured the energy consumption of the water sector to be equivalent to 3,5% of the electricity consumption of the EU.\n\nThe water policy of the EU is primarily codified in the following directives:\n\n\nEU member states have enacted national legislation in accordance with these directives. The institutional organisation of public water supply and sanitation does not fall under the purview of the EU, but remains a prerogative of each member state.\n\nThe Council Directive on Urban Waste Water Treatment concerns the collection, treatment and discharge of urban waste water and the treatment and discharge of waste water from certain industrial sectors. Its aim is to protect the environment from any adverse effects due to discharge of such waters.\n\nAccording to the directive's timetable:\n\n\nHowever, in the case of Spain changes were made at the time of transposing the Directive. In Article 2 of the Directive, a collecting system means \"a system of conduits which collects and conducts urban waste water\" and therefore all sewers and drains, both public and private were included. However, in the Spanish transposition (Real Decreto-Ley 11/1995 of 28 December 1995), the definition of a collecting system was changed to mean “all systems of conduits which collect and conduct urban waste water, from the municipal sewer and drainage networks and go to the treatment plants.” The added words mean that when the Spanish definition is applied to Article 3 of the Directive the municipal sewer and drainage networks are excluded. If the municipal network did not exist, as in the case of many urbanisations (housing estates) developed in the 1960s and 1970s and within agglomerations of over 2000 p.e. no collecting system needed to be provided at all, under the Real Decreto-Ley 11/1995. Obviously if waste water is not collected it cannot be treated, therefore the changed definition also affected Article 4 of the Directive. Even so, Spain had to and still has to comply fully with the Directive.\nOn 5 March 2009, the Catalan Autonomous Government finally approved a law (La Llei de la millora d’urbanizacions) to deal with deficits of infrastructures, such as sewers in urbanisations in Catalonia, 18 years after the Directive was approved by the European Parliament.\n\nThe directive also allows the establishment of less sensitive coastal areas, for which primary treatment would be sufficient, if it can be shown that there is no adverse impact on the environment (Art. 6).\n\nMember states had to establish lists of sensitive areas. It has been estimated that in 2004 about 34 percent of the pollutant load from wastewater that falls under the scope of the directive is discharged into sensitive areas.\n\nThis Directive was amended by the Commission Directive 98/15/EC.\n\nCommission Decision 93/481/EEC defines the information that Member States should provide the Commission on the state of implementation of the Directive.\n\nThe European Commission published three reports on the implementation of the directive, the latest in 2004. The report noted that the wastewater treatment situation in Europe is still very unsatisfactory and that none of the deadlines has been met by all member countries. Only Austria, Denmark and Germany fully complied with the directive. The report noted that BOD levels in European rivers have been reduced by 20–30 percent since the enactment of the directive, but that other pollution parameters such as nitrogen levels remained high. The reason is that much of the nitrogen pollution comes from non-point sources in agriculture, and the still insufficient nutrient removal by wastewater treatment plants. The eutrophication of the Baltic Sea, North Sea and considerable parts of the Mediterranean thus remains a \"severe problem\". The report also noted that it is estimated that more than 50 percent of the discharges into sensitive areas was not treated sufficiently. Even for non-sensitive areas, although the picture was less bleak, only 69% of the discharge received treatment and the 2000 deadline was not met by most member countries. 25 out of 556 cities in the EU still had no wastewater treatment system at all.\n\nThe directive triggered substantial investment in sewage treatment throughout the EU. A controversial aspect of the directive is the requirement for all agglomerations with more than 2,000 inhabitants to have a wastewater collection system, which has been widely interpreted as requiring connection to a sewer system even if existing on-site sanitation systems perform adequately. The cost of connecting houses to sewers in small rural towns with dispersed housing patterns is often very high and imposes a high financial burden on users.\n\nAccording to the European Commission, the directive represents the most cost intensive European legislation in the environmental sector. The EU estimates that the equivalent of €152 billion were invested in wastewater treatment from 1990 to 2010. The EU provides support for the implementation of the directive in the order of 5 billion Euro per year.\n\nThe European Commission is currently undergoing a consultation on the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive. As the directive was adopted in 1991, its challenge will be to integrate the commitments taken with the Paris agreement as the wastewater treatment sector consumes 1% of the global total energy consumption. Under a business as usual scenario, this figure is expected to increase by 60% by 2040 compared to 2014. With the introduction of energy efficiency requirements, the energy consumption of the wastewater treatment sector can be reduced by 50% only by using current technologies. On top of that, there are also opportunities to produce enough energy from wastewater to turn the whole water sector energy neutral. It uses the energy embedded in the sludge by producing biogas through anaerobic digestion. These features have been mainly overlooked due to the over-riding objective for utilities to meet existing and future needs for wastewater treatment.\n\nThe Directive is intended to protect human health by laying down healthiness and purity requirements which must be met by drinking water within the Community (see water quality). It applies to all water intended for human consumption apart from natural mineral waters and waters which are medicinal products.\n\nMember States shall ensure that such drinking water:\n\n\nIn setting contaminant levels the directive applies the precautionary principle. For example, the EU contaminant levels for pesticides are up to 20 times lower than those in the WHO drinking water guidelines, because the EU directive not only aims at protecting human health but also the environment. The WHO contaminant levels themselves are already set so that there would be no potential risk if the contaminant was absorbed continuously over a person's lifetime. EU drinking water standards and cases where these standards are temporarily exceeded by a small margin should be interpreted in this context.\n\nCompared to the previous European drinking water directive of 1980 the number of parameters has been reduced, allowing member to add parameters such as magnesium, total hardness, phenols, zinc, phosphate, calcium and chlorite.\n\nThe directive requires member states to regularly monitor the quality of water intended for human consumption by using the methods of analysis specified in the directive, or equivalent methods. Member states also have to publish drinking water quality reports every three years, and the European Commission is to publish a summary report. Within five years Member States had to comply with the Directive. Exemptions can be granted on a temporary basis, provided that they do not affect human health.\n\nUntil 2006 the European Commission has not published a summary report on drinking water quality. No EU country achieves full compliance with the directive, mainly because of the geological nature of its soil and agricultural activity. in 2003 the European Commission initiated a broad consultation process to prepare a revision of the Directive. One key aspect of the revision would be to move away from a pure end-of-pipe standard setting approach. Instead the whole water supply process from the basin to the tap would be assessed to identify risk and the most effective control points, through so-called Water safety plans. Another important challenge will be to integrate the new environmental, climate and energy goals of the EU. The issue is substantial as in average 23% of the treated water in the EU is leaked, with some countries facing leakage rates as high as 60%. . \n\nUnder this Directive, member states have to identify all the river basins lying within their national territory and assign them to individual river basin districts. By 22 December 2003 at the latest, a competent authority had to be designated for each of the river basin districts. In addition, member states have to analyse the characteristics of each river basin and have to carry out an economic analysis of water use. Nine years after the entry into force of the directive, a management plan must be produced for each river basin district. The measures provided for in the river basin management plan seek to:\n\n\nBy 2010, Member States must ensure that water pricing policies provide adequate incentives for users to use water resources efficiently and that the various economic sectors contribute to the recovery of the costs of water services including those relating to the environment and resources. This cost recovery rule is expected to impact particularly irrigated agriculture, where users have not paid the full costs of water supply.\n\nAt the latest twelve years after the date of entry into force of the Directive, the European Commission has to publish a report on the implementation of the Directive.\n\nSome countries, such as France and Spain, had already established basin agencies before the enactment of the directive. They should thus find it easy to implement that part of the directive. Other countries that have historically managed their water resources through institutions whose geographical limits were determined by administrative boundaries, such as in the case of Germany where the states (Laender) manage water resources, are in the process of setting up co-ordinating mechanisms for each river basin. Other elements of the directive, such as the protection of groundwater and cost recovery rules, may be more difficult to implement, especially in Southern member countries that have extensive irrigated agriculture.\n\nIn March 2007 the EU commission published its first progress report on the implementation of the EU Framework Directive. The report notes mixed results. Almost all member countries have transposed the directive into national law, but the report notes that \"the legal transposition of the Directive in national law is poor and in many cases inadequate\". Indeed, the report finds that only in three countries the national law (Austria, Malta and Portugal) is in conformity with the Directive. Furthermore, there have been significant delays in the analysis of the characteristics of each river basin. Since the establishment of this knowledge base is a precondition for Basin Plans, this delay jeopardises progress of the implementation of the entire Directive.\n\nAverage connection rates to sanitation systems between 80%–90% are reported for Northern, Southern and Central Europe. Eastern Europe still copes with much lower rates of 40%–65% of the population connected to primary wastewater treatment at least. Europe in general is improving: Over the last decade more households accessed public treatment plants or even upgraded their treatment system (e.g. from secondary to tertiary treatment).\n\nAs access is dependent on each member state so is service quality. It ranges from very good service quality in Northern and Southern States of the European Union for example in Spain or Germany to insufficient or poor services especially in Eastern European states. The history of WSS within the member states and different states in development can partly explain the heterogeneous state of the supply and treatment systems.\n\nThe supply of water and its disposal has been managed in Europe for many centuries. Centralised water supply and sanitation started with the Romans who were responsible for the construction of aqueducts and systems to collect and distribute water. During the Middle Ages water was distributed through private carriers or/and organised through local communities or cities. The industrial revolution and the construction of modern industrialised conurbations in Europe was dependent upon managed water supplies. The United Kingdom pioneered urban planning at that time.\n\nThe time of industrialisation and development of cities (between 1800–1900) in terms of WSS is called the time of simple regime followed by the regimes of lower complexity between 1900–1950, medium (1980–1970), high complexity (1970–1985) and the era finally ended up in an so called attempt of integration from 1985 onwards. The terms reflect the approach of most (Western) European countries towards WSS at that time. It steadily developed from privately organised co-operations to governmental influenced systems. Together with water management in general, it nowadays comes back to private initiatives manifested in Public-Private co-operations.\n\nThe Blueprint to Safeguard Europe's Waters is the EU's policy response to the challenges of the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive. It is basically structured in four parts:\n\nMain text:Water Supply and Sanitation Technology Platform\n\nOne international nonprofit association (under Belgian law) supporting the European Union in dealing with the challenges of water related issues is the WssTP. This platform was built up in 2004 with financial support of the European Commission and is steadily growing ever since. The association is dealing with water supply and sanitation issues within Europe and all over the world. Nowadays, it is funded through fees paid by its 127 members from industry, research and education.\nThe aim of the association is to support the development of the water related sector within Europe, assist both the EU and developing countries in achieving the Millennium Development Goals, and provide Research and Development roadmaps and recommendations on water related issues especially involving the European Commission.\n\nThe Water Information System for Europe (WISE) is a partnership of the European Commission, the Directorate-General for the Environment (European Commission), Eurostat, the Joint Research Centre and the European Environment Agency. Since 2007 this web-based service platform provides the public with information about ongoing research projects, policies, data, and reports connected to water in the EU. The target group of this online information system is researches and professionals dealing with water related issues within the framework of the EU. The platform helps to store and administer data and output handed in by member states and agencies connected to the reporting requirements of the European Commission.\n\nThe Environmental Action Programme (EAP) is a policy adopted by Environment Ministers in 1993 in a conference in Switzerland. An international Task Force was established later on to support mainly states of countries in the Eastern Europe, Caucasus and Central Asia. In WSS they are supporting the financial strategies of a number of countries to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Furthermore, they are working on indicators and monitoring systems in those countries to collect data of water utilities to check their performance. Apart from that, the EAP task force is figuring out the potentials of the private sector to participate in the water sector especially in water supply and sanitation in the EECCA countries and they consult local partners in financial planning and investment. They are also collaborating with the EU Water Initiative since 2005.\n\nMajor challenges of the EU concerning WSS are connected with modern pressures to the system. Climate change, demographic developments, urbanization, economic progress, social changes influence the water sector in many ways. The European Union is said to be very effective concerning water management and policies. However, especially the new member states located in Eastern Europe are in need of enormous investments to ensure the sustainability of the water infrastructure.\n\nThe existing and foreseen problems are the lack of investments in the rural and municipal water supply which led to poor services (e.g. water leakages, interruption of service, insufficient water availability during drought, etc.), the limited availability of water resources and its energy consumption which can represent up to 50% of municipalities' electricity bill. Technologies are actually available and with a quick return on investment but the sole focus on water quality has diverted the attention for the increasing need of sustainability from the water sector in the context of climate change. \n\nWater supply limitation counts as major concern. The first and most rational answer should be to tackle the water leakage problem Europe is facing as almost 1/4 of treated water is leaked in average in the EU. Moreover, research shows that water reuse and recycling are also solutions in the long-term. Furthermore, expert's advice say that water supply and waste water treatment systems should be decentralised.\nAnother challenge within the water sector in Europe is privatisation and lobbyism in the water sector. In France, recent problems emerged regarding the privatising of water supply companies.\n\nAccording to an EU-funded study, \"Europe and the Mediterranean countries are lagging behind\" California, Japan, and Australia \"in the extent to which reuse is being taken up.\" According to the study \"the concept (of reuse) is difficult for the regulators and wider public to understand and accept.\"\n\nThe second largest waste reclamation program in the world is in Spain, where 12% of the nation's waste is treated.\n\nThe indirect potable reuse (IDP) project in Wulpen, Belgium, discharges recycled water to an unconfined dune aquifer. Initially the recycled water comprised 90% RO permeate and 10% MF permeate (approx. 6,000,000 m per year). However, it was observed that some herbicides were present in the recycled water at levels below drinking water standards due to detection of herbicides in the MF permeate. As a result, since May 2004, only the RO permeate after UV disinfection is injected into the aquifer with addition of sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13022296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13022296", "title": "Yvonne Agazarian", "text": "Yvonne Agazarian\n\nYvonne M. Agazarian (born Feb 17, 1929; died Oct 9, 2017) was the principal architect of systems-centered therapy, based on a theory of Living Human Systems that she also developed. Agazarian taught, trained, and supervised systems-centered therapists internationally, was the founder of the Systems-Centered Training & Research Institute, and practiced in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1997, the American Psychological Association awarded her Group Psychologist of the Year \"for her involvement in research, publication, teaching and training. She exemplifies the finest in scholarship in the discipline of psychology. As a group psychologist, she has contributed to expanding our knowledge of the boundaries between clinical and social psychology with the investigation of living human systems and systems-centered group and individual therapy. Her considerable body of work illustrates the highest blend of creativity and learning\".\n\nHer book, \"Systems-Centered Therapy for Groups\", was also published in 1997.\n\nAgazarian had from the sixties been interested in the paradigm clash presented by her training in individual psychotherapy and in group therapy, and in the possibility of overcoming it: from the eighties onwards, she explored the possibility of resolving it through general systems theory.\n\nIt was, however, the challenge presented in the following decade by health maintenance organizations and their stress on short-term therapy, that propelled her into devising systems-centered therapy, in order (she stated) to discover \"how to think about short-term therapy in a way that maintained the integrity and values of our work\".\n\nThe influences she credited on her work range from W. R. Bion and John Bowlby to Erwin Schrödinger and Ludwig von Bertalanffy, reflecting both her intellectual range and the trajectory of her movement from psychoanalysis through whole-group therapy to systems=centered therapy.\n\n\n\n"}
