{"id": "13216186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13216186", "title": "AVN Media Network", "text": "AVN Media Network\n\nAVN Media Network is a publishing, digital media and event management company for the adult entertainment industry. AVN Media Network's portfolio of businesses includes several widely recognized adult industry publications, expos, shows, and communities. These include gfy.com, an adult webmaster community, AVN magazine, AVN Online, GAYVN and AVN Adult Entertainment Expo.\n\nAVN Media Network, Inc. is headquartered in the Chatsworth, CA\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7209325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7209325", "title": "Albert von Schrenck-Notzing", "text": "Albert von Schrenck-Notzing\n\nAlbert Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing (18 May 1862 – 12 February 1929) was a German physician, psychiatrist and notable psychical researcher, who devoted his time to the study of paranormal events connected with mediumship, hypnotism and telepathy. He investigated Spiritualist mediums such as Willi Schneider, Rudi Schneider, and Valentine Dencausse. He is credited as the first forensic psychologist by Guinness World Records.\n\nSchrenck-Notzing investigated the medium Eva Carrière and believed the ectoplasm she produced was genuine. However, Schrenck-Notzing did not believe her ectoplasm \"materializations\" were anything to do with spirits, he claimed they were the result of \"ideoplasty\" in which the medium could form images onto ectoplasm from her mind. Schrenck-Notzing published the book \"Phenomena of Materialisation\" in English translation (1920), which included photographs of the ectoplasm. Critics pointed out that the photographs of the ectoplasm revealed marks of magazine cut-outs, pins and a piece of string.\n\nThe psychiatrist Mathilde Ludendorff wrote that the experiments of Schrenck-Notzing were unscientific and that he had been duped by tricks of Carrière. In the Schrenck-Notzing experiments with Carrière the scientific controls were scarce and there was evidence that she had freed her hands in the séance room. Harry Price wrote the photographs of her ectoplasm taken with Schrenck-Notzing look artificial and two-dimensional made from cardboard and newspaper portraits and that there were no scientific controls as both her hands were free. In 1920 Carrière was investigated by the Society for Psychical Research in London. An analysis of her ectoplasm revealed it to be made of chewed paper. She was also investigated in 1922 and the results of the tests were negative.\n\nSchrenck-Notzing admitted that on several occasions Carrière deceptively smuggled pins into the séance room. The magician Carlos María de Heredia replicated the ectoplasm of Carrière using a comb, gauze and a handkerchief.\n\nDonald West wrote that the ectoplasm of Carrière was fake and was made of cut-out paper faces from newspapers and magazines on which fold marks could sometimes be seen from the photographs. A photograph of Carrière taken from the back of the ectoplasm face revealed it to be made from a magazine cut out with the letters \"Le Miro\". The two-dimensional face had been clipped from the French magazine Le Miroir. Back issues of the magazine also matched some of Carrière's ectoplasm faces. In 1913 Miss Barkley in an article in the newspaper \"Neue Wiener Tagblatt\" had exposed the fraud of Carrière:\n\nMiss Eva prepared the heads before every séance, and endeavoured to make them unrecognizable. A clean-shaven face was decorated with a beard. Grey hairs became black curls, a broad forehead was made into a narrow one. But, in spite of all her endeavours, she could not obliterate certain characteristic lines.\n\nCut out faces that she used included Woodrow Wilson, King Ferdinand of Bulgaria, French president Raymond Poincaré and the actress Mona Delza. After Schrenck-Notzing discovered Carrière had taken her ectoplasm faces from the magazine he defended her by claiming she had read the magazine but her memory had recalled the images and they had materialized into the ectoplasm. Because of this Schrenck-Notzing was described as credulous. Joseph McCabe noted that \"In Germany and Austria, Baron von Schrenck-Notzing is the laughing-stock of his medical colleagues.\"\n\nThe Hungarian medium Ladislas Lasslo (also known as Laszlo Laszlo) confessed that all of his spirit materializations were fraudulent in 1924. A séance sitter was also found to be working as a confederate for Lasslo. Lasslo who was originally endorsed as genuine by Schrenck-Notzing was a pickpocket and army deserter. During his séances he confessed to hiding \"spirit heads\" made from pieces of gauze in Schrenck-Notzing's pocket or in the seat of his armchair.\n\nKarl Kraus (pseudo Karl Weber) was a medium that was exposed as a fraud by Professor Hans Thirring in Vienna in 1924. However, Kraus had been endorsed by Schrenck-Notzing as genuine. Kraus would later write a manuscript about his mediumship. He admitted that he had set out to deceive Schrenck-Notzing to reveal the inefficiency of psychical research. In 1928 Harry Price obtained the Kraus manuscript. Some of the manuscript was later reprinted by the American Society for Psychical Research and Schrenck-Notzing was charged of being a credulous investigator.\n\nIn 1954, the SPR member Rudolf Lambert published a report revealing details about a case of fraud that was covered up by many early members of the Institute Metapsychique International (IMI). Lambert who had studied Gustav Geley's files on Eva Carrière discovered photographs depicting fraudulent ectoplasm taken by her companion Juliette Bisson. Various \"materializations\" were artificially attached to Eva's hair by wires. The discovery was never published by Geley. Eugéne Osty (the director of the institute) and members Jean Meyer, Albert von Schrenck-Notzing and Charles Richet all knew about the fraudulent photographs but were firm believers in mediumship phenomena so demanded the scandal be kept secret.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56458415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56458415", "title": "Amapola (film)", "text": "Amapola (film)\n\nAmapola is a 2014 Argentine-American romantic comedy fantasy film written and directed by Eugenio Zanetti and starring Camilla Belle, François Arnaud, Lito Cruz, Leonor Benedetto and Geraldine Chaplin. It is the first film as a director of Zanetti, who was previously known for his work in art director, as well as set designer and theater/opera director.\n\nDuring the turbulent years that changed Argentina - between 1966's Coup d'etat and its subsequent dictatorship, the Malvinas/Falklands War in 1982 and the return to democracy in 1983 - a young woman who lives with a family of artists is magically transported to the future, where she discovers the decadence that fell upon her family, their estate and herself. She decides to return to her present in an effort to maintain the union of her family, save her happiness and find her true love.\n\n\n\"Amapola\" was for a long time a dream project for Argentine Eugenio Zanetti, who gained international recognition for his work in many Hollywood films as \"Flatliners\" (1990), \"Last Action Hero\" (1993), \"What Dreams May Come\" (1998) and \"The Haunting\" (1999), and won an Academy Award for Best Art Direction in 1995, for the film \"Restoration\". Zanetti also participated as the film's production designer.\n\nCamilla Belle took some time before filming for learning to speak Castilian, a variant of the Spanish language and Argentina's official language (as well as the most popularly talked in the country), and to do so with a \"Porteño\" (people from Buenos Aires City) accent.\n\nReleased in Argentina on June 5, 2014, the film received mixed to negative reviews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43975642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43975642", "title": "American-led intervention in Iraq (2014–present)", "text": "American-led intervention in Iraq (2014–present)\n\nAn American-led intervention in Iraq started on 15 June 2014, when President Barack Obama ordered United States forces to be dispatched to the region, in response to offensives in Iraq conducted by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). At the invitation of the Iraqi government, American troops went to assess Iraqi forces and the threat posed by ISIL.\n\nIn early August 2014, ISIL attacked Kurdish-held territory in northern Iraq, and captured three towns in northern Iraq, close to the autonomous region of Iraqi Kurdistan. In response, on 5 August, the United States started supplying the Iraqi Kurdish peshmerga forces with weapons. On 7 August, the United States also started humanitarian aid air droppings of food, water, and medicine for civilians fleeing ISIL in the Sinjar Mountains. On the next day, 8 August, the United States began airstrikes against ISIL positions in Iraq. Since then, in coalition with the United States, nine countries have also executed airstrikes on ISIL in Iraq. These airstrikes have been operating more or less in concert with ground warfare by Kurdish and Iraqi government forces against ISIL. There have also been sporadic clashes between ISIL fighters, and US and Canadian troops, several thousand of whom are acting in advisory and combat roles alongside Kurdish and Iraqi forces. By April 2015, ISIL had lost significant amounts of territory to Iraqi and American-led Coalition forces. Compared to their peak in December 2014, ISIL had lost 25–30% of their territory, leaving them in possession of around 15,000 square miles of Iraq. By December 2017, ISIL had no remaining territory in Iraq, following the 2017 Western Iraq campaign.\n\nIn 2003, the United States led a controversial invasion of Iraq, which was based on flawed intelligence that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction and links to al-Qaeda while under Ba'athist rule. By 2007, the number of U.S. forces in Iraq peaked at 170,000 soldiers. In 2011, the U.S. had withdrawn most of its troops from Iraq, and later kept 20,000 employees in its embassy and consulates, including dozens of U.S. Marine Embassy Guards and approximately 4,500 private military contractors.\n\nIn 2013, the U.S. resumed flying surveillance aircraft in order to collect intelligence about insurgent Islamist fighters targeting the Iraqi government.\n\nAfter the 2003 invasion, the previous incarnations of ISIL (Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad [Jama'at], the Mujahideen Shura Council [MSC], and al-Qaeda in Iraq) interfered with occupation by the U.S.-led coalition. Jama'at and MSC started a campaign of terrorism in August 2003 in response to what resistance commander Abu Mohammed described as an occupation intending to humiliate and enchain the people of Iraq. Attacks by Jama'at and MSC targeted hundreds of Muslim Iraqis, several U.S. soldiers, and included in 2010 a church full of Christians. These attacks are presumed to include the beheadings in 2004 of three American civilians, one British, one South Korean, and one Japanese civilian.\n\nAfter the December 2011 withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq, violent insurgency of mainly Sunni Islamic Islamist fighters targeting the Iraqi government continued in what is called the Iraqi insurgency.\n\nBetween 5 and 11 June 2014, Sunni Islamic, jihadist, 'Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant' (ISIL) militants, already successful in the Syrian civil war, conquered the Iraqi cities of Samarra, Mosul and Tikrit, and threatened the Mosul Dam and Kirkuk, where Iraqi Kurdish Peshmerga troops took control from the Iraqi government.\n\nOn 12 August 2014, ISIL started a beheading campaign of Western and Japanese civilian hostages (announced 12 August, James Foley 19 August, Steven Sotloff 2 September, David Haines 13 September, Hervé Gourdel 24 September, Alan Henning 3 October, Peter Kassig 16 November, Haruna Yukawa sometime January 2015, Kenji Goto 30 January 2015) marketed via the internet.\n\nOn 5 September, 15 September and 3 December 2014, different sets of countries came together to discuss concerted action against ISIL. Present at all three meetings were the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Canada, Turkey, and Denmark.\n\nThe coalition of 5 September (10 countries) decided to support anti-ISIL forces in Iraq and Syria.\n<br>The coalition of 15 September (26 countries) decided to support the Iraqi government militarily.\n<br>The coalition of 3 December 2014 (59 countries) agreed on a many-sided strategy, including cutting off ISIL's financing and funding and exposing ISIL's true nature.\n\nAt the invitation of the Iraqi Government, on 15 June 2014 President Obama ordered dozens of United States troops to Iraq in response to offensives by ISIL (see previous section 'Background'), to assess Iraqi forces and the ISIL threat.\n\nProbably between 15 and 26 June, the U.S. also began to fly missions with manned aircraft over Iraq in secret.\n\nOn 26 June 2014, the U.S. started to survey over Baghdad also with armed drones \"primarily\" for protection of 180 U.S. military advisers in the area.\n\nOn 29–30 June 2014, the U.S. increased the number of its troops in Iraq from 180 to 480, to prevent ISIL from taking control of Baghdad International Airport, which the US said would be critical to any evacuation of Americans from Baghdad, and to protect U.S. citizens and property.\n\nIn July, Obama announced that due to the continuing violence in Iraq and the growing influence of non-state actors such as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, the United States would elevate its security commitment in the region. Approximately 800 U.S. troops secured American installations like the Embassy in Baghdad and the Consulate in Erbil as well as seizing control of strategic locations like the Baghdad International Airport.\n\nAround 13 July, a classified military report concluded that many Iraqi army units were deeply infiltrated by either Sunni extremist informants or Shiite personnel backed by Iran, which would bring Americans advisors to Iraqi forces into danger.\n\nAround 5 August, the U.S. military forces in Iraq were acting to \"assess and to advise Iraqi security forces as they confront ISIL and the complex security situation on the ground.\"\n\nDuring the first 15 days of August 2014, ISIL expanded its territories in northern Iraq. On 3 August, they conquered Sinjar and surrounding area, including Wana and Zumar, killing possibly 2,000 Yazidi men in the Sinjar massacre, and taking Yazidi women into slavery, causing 50,000 Yazidis to flee into the adjacent Sinjar Mountains. During their whole August offensive, ISIL massacred 5,000 Yazidis.\n<br>On 7 August, ISIL conquered Qaraqosh, the largest Christian town in Iraq, and neighbouring towns, causing 100,000 Christian civilians to flee from ISIL troops.\n\nIn reaction, on 5 August, Iraqi military started dropping food and water for the tens of thousands of Yazidis in the Sinjar mountains,\nand the U.S. started directly supplying Iraqi Kurds with weapons to fight ISIL. On 7 August the U.S. also started dropping food and water for the Yazidi Kurdish civilians trapped in the Sinjar Mountains (see also section 'Humanitarian efforts').\n\nOn the evening of 7 August 2014, U.S. President Barack Obama gave a live address to the nation. He described the recent ISIL advances across Iraq and said that ISIL's persecution and threatening the extinction of Yazidis, a religious minority in northern Iraq, including especially the Yazidis who had fled into the Sinjar Mountains,\nin particular had convinced him that U.S. military action was necessary. The President said that he had ordered airstrikes:\nObama further defended his decision by saying:\n\n...the world is confronted by many challenges. And while America has never been able to right every wrong, America has made the world a more secure and prosperous place. And our leadership is necessary to underwrite the global security and prosperity that our children and our grandchildren will depend upon. We do so by adhering to a set of core principles. We do whatever is necessary to protect our people. We support our allies when they're in danger. We lead coalitions of countries to uphold international norms. And we strive to stay true to the fundamental values -- the desire to live with basic freedom and dignity -- that is common to human beings wherever they are. That's why people all over the world look to the United States of America to lead. And that's why we do it.\n\nThe U.S. also started considering an operation with American ground troops to rescue the Yazidis in those Sinjar Mountains.\n\nOn Friday, 8 August 2014, U.S. Navy McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet fighters bombed an ISIL artillery unit outside Erbil, and four U.S. fighters later bombed ISIL military convoys, some of them advancing Erbil and besieging Kurdish forces defending Erbil. Another round of U.S. airstrikes in the afternoon struck 8 ISIL targets near Erbil. Armed drones as well as fixed wing aircraft were used in the U.S. attacks.\n\nOn 8 and 9 August, Obama extended the purposes of the airstrikes of 8 August as to be: 1.) protecting Americans in Iraq; 2.) helping Iraqi minorities stranded on Mount Sinjar; 3.) \"break the siege of Mount Sinjar\"; 4.) preventing massacres (genocides) on Yazidis and other minority groups as announced by ISIL; and 5.) helping Iraqis combat the threat from ISIL.\n\nOn Saturday, 9 August, U.S. forces launched 4 airstrikes against ISIL fighters threatening civilians on Mount Sinjar, this time primarily aimed at armored fighting vehicles. A combination of US warplanes and drones destroyed four armored personnel carriers. The U.S. airstrikes that day killed 16 ISIL fighters, Iraqi officials reported.\n\nOn 10 August, U.S. forces launched a series of 5 air attacks which targeted ISIL armed vehicles as well as a mortar position. Assisted by these U.S. air attacks, Iraqi Kurdish forces claimed to have recaptured the Northern Iraqi towns of Mahmour and Gweyr from ISIL control. An Iraqi airstrike conducted 9–11 August in Sinjar killed 45 ISIS militants, Iraqi officials reported. On 10 August, also the United Kingdom started with humanitarian airdrops for the—initially 50,000—Yazidis stranded in the Sinjar Mountains (see also section 'Humanitarian efforts').\n\nBetween 9 and 13 August, the Kurds and Americans enabled possibly 35,000 to 45,000 of the Yazidis stranded in the Sinjar Mountains to escape or be evacuated into Syria (see Sinjar massacre#Refugee crisis in the Sinjar Mountains).\n\nOn Monday, 11 August, Lt. Gen. William Mayville Jr., director of the U.S. operations, said the airstrikes since 7 August near Irbil and Mount Sinjar had slowed ISIL's operational tempo and temporarily disrupted their advances toward Irbil. On 12 August, the U.S. carried out airstrikes against ISIL mortar positions north of Sinjar after ISIL had been firing on Kurdish forces protecting the Yazidis in the area.\n\nOn 13 August, the U.S. government concluded that the situation of the remaining Yazidis in the Sinjar Mountains was \"much more manageable\" and less life-threatening, and that an American rescue operation was therefore not acutely necessary. Presumably a few thousand or between 5,000 and 10,000 Yazidis still remained in those mountains.\n\nOn 16 August, U.S. drones and warplanes began a close air campaign aimed at supporting the advance of Kurdish fighters moving toward the Mosul Dam. Kurdish sources commented that this was the \"heaviest US bombing of militant positions since the start of air strikes.\"\nOn 16 August there were 9 U.S. airstrikes in northern Iraq, on 17 August 2014.\n\nU.S. President Obama, in a letter to Congress on 17 August, explained this use of U.S. Forces as support to the Iraqi forces' campaign against terrorist group ISIL.\nObama said on 18 August that Kurdish Peshmerga fighters and Iraqi troops, with help from the U.S., had retaken the Mosul Dam from ISIL.\n\nOn 8 September, the Iraqi army with close air support from U.S. F-18 aircraft managed to retake the key Haditha Dam. Following the recapture, Iraqi troops moved on to recapture the town of Barwana. Iraqi state television reported that 15 ISIL militants were killed in the battle. Following the Iraqi victory, ISIL responded with the public execution of David Haines.\n\nOn 18 September, France decided to initiate airstrikes on ISIL as well (see main article: 'Opération Chammal').\n\nAround 23 September, Lloyd Austin, the general in charge of U.S. Central Command, has been confirmed to be the top officer in charge of the campaign against the ISIL in Iraq and Syria.\nOn 24 September, the Dutch government decided to send six Fighter jets to contribute to the \"international battle against ISIS (ISIL)\" (see section 'Airstrikes').\n\nOn 26 September, the British Parliament decided to authorize British airstrikes on ISIL as well. Britain then announced to cooperate with Iraqi and Kurdish intelligence agencies (see main article: 'Operation Shader'). Also the Belgian Parliament that day decided to start airstrikes on ISIL (see section 'Airstrikes').\n\nAround 28 September 2014, airstrikes by the U.S.-led coalition together with Iraqi Army ground forces clashing with ISIL militants halted an ISIL offensive by Amariya al-Falluja, 40 km (25 miles) west of Baghdad, the Iraqi capital, a BBC reporter on the spot reported.\n\nOn 30 September, the U.S. launched eleven airstrikes in Iraq and the UK conducted their first two airstrikes in Iraq in this intervention. Together with eleven U.S. strikes in Syria against ISIL these 24 strikes were the highest number of strikes against ISIL on one day since 8 August.\n\nBy the end of September 2014, the United States Navy and Air Force had conducted 240 airstrikes in Iraq and Syria, as well as 1,300 tanker refueling missions, totaling 3,800 sorties by all types of aircraft.\n\nOn 3 October 2014, the Australian government authorized airstrikes on ISIL in Iraq (see main article: 'Operation Okra'). On 2 October, Denmark's Parliament authorized airstrikes on ISIL in Iraq (see section 'Airstrikes').\n<br>On 7 October, the Canadian Parliament voted in favour of Canadian airstrikes against ISIL (see main article: 'Operation Impact').\n<br>On 11 October, 10,000 ISIL troops headed from Mosul and Syria toward the Iraqi capital city of Baghdad, and ISIL stood on the verge of taking the whole of Anbar province just west of Baghdad. The provincial council's deputy head, Al-Issawi, said they then asked Iraq's government to ask the U.S. to bring in ground forces; the Iraqi government however squarely denied to have received such demand from Anbar. 12 October, ISIL came within 25 km (15.5 miles) of the Baghdad airport, U.S. General Dempsey reported. The U.S. then deployed low-flying Apache attack helicopters to keep ISIL at bay.\n\nBy 22 October, the U.S. had spent $424 million on both of its bombing campaigns against ISIL in Iraq and Syria.\n\nLate November 2014, Morocco responded to an American appeal and sent several F-16 jets to fight against ISIL. (See also section 'Airstrikes'.)\n\nDuring the early morning hours of 14 December, U.S. ground forces allegedly clashed with ISIL alongside the Iraqi Army and Tribal Forces near Ein al-Asad base, west of Anbar, in an attempt to repel them from the base of which includes about 100 U.S. advisers in it, when ISIL attempted to overrun the base. A field commander of the Iraqi Army in Anbar province, said that \"the U.S. force equipped with light and medium weapons, supported by F-18, was able to inflict casualties against fighters of ISIL organization, and forced them to retreat from the al-Dolab area, which lies 10 kilometers from Ain al-Assad base.\" Sheikh Mahmud Nimrawi, a prominent tribal leader in the region, added that \"U.S. forces intervened because of ISIL started to come near the base, which they are stationed in so out of self-defense,\" he responded, welcoming the U.S. intervention, and saying \"which I hope will not be the last.\" This was said to be the first encounter between the United States and the Islamic State, in four years. However, this claim has been stated to be \"false\" by The Pentagon.\n\nIn the Kurdish Sinjar offensive, 17–22 December, Kurdish troops, aided by U.S. airstrikes, connected the Sinjar Mountains to Peshmerga territory, enabling the Yazidis who stayed on the mountains to be evacuated. On 22 December, Kurdish Peshmerga forces pushed into the city of Sinjar, taking control of much of the city.\n\nOn 25 December 2014, Hassan Saeed Al-Jabouri, the ISIL governor of Mosul, who was also known as Abu Taluut, was killed by a US-led Coalition airstrike in Mosul. It was also revealed that the US planned to retake the city of Mosul in January 2015.\n\nIn mid-January 2015, Canadian soldiers at the front lines between Iraqi and ISIL troops exchanged fire with ISIL fighters. Canadians were not hurt, but they \"neutralized\" an unknown number of ISIL militants.\n\nOn 20 January 2015, the SOHR reported that al-Baghdadi, the leader of ISIL, had been wounded in an airstrike in Al-Qa'im, an Iraqi border town held by ISIL, and as a result, withdrew to Syria.\n\nOn 21 January 2015, the US began coordinating airstrikes with a Kurdish launched offensive, to help them begin the planned operation to retake the city of Mosul.\n\nOn 29 January 2015, Canadian special forces in Iraq came under fire from ISIL forces, causing the Canadian troops to return fire, killing some ISIL militants.\n\nJordan, which had been conducting airstrikes on ISIL in Syria since September 2014, initiated airstrikes on ISIL targets in Iraq on 4 February 2015 (see details in the Airstrikes section).\n\nOn 17 February, it was revealed that ISIL had launched another major assault on Erbil, coming within of the city.\n\nBy late February, it was reported that ISIL was beginning to use chemical weapons, due to the gradual weakening of the organization, and that the Iraqi Army was expected to join the Liberation of Mosul sometime in April 2015.\n\nAt the beginning of March, the Iraqi government announced that they would soon launch a military operation with the Kurdish Peshmerga and other allies to regain the city of Mosul, which was under ISIL control since 10 June 2014. On 10 March, U.S.-led warplanes dropped scraps of paper in Mosul, advising residents to evacuate the city and stay away from ISIL locations, because of those imminent military operations.\n\nOn 11 March 2015, ISIL threatened over loudspeakers to behead any civilian who tries to leave Mosul.\n\n18 March 2015 Coalition airstrike at the al-Baaj District, in the Nineveh Governorate, near the Syrian border. It was reported that his wounds were so serious that the top ISIL leaders had a meeting to discuss who would replace him if he died. By 21 April, al-Bagdadi reportedly had not yet recovered enough from his injuries to resume daily control of ISIL.\n\nOn 25 March 2015, the American-led Coalition joined the Second Battle of Tikrit, launching its first airstrikes on ISIL targets in the city center. That night, US aircraft carried out 17 airstrikes in the center of Tikrit, which struck an ISIL building, two bridges, three checkpoints, two staging areas, two berms, a roadblock, and a command and control facility. The US-led Coalition continued conducting airstrikes in Tikrit until 31 March, when Iraqi forces entered the city center.\n\nOn 8 April 2015, Iraqi forces, building on their advances in the Saladin Governorate, launched an offensive to liberate the Anbar Governorate from ISIL occupation, beginning with an offensive in the region around east Ramadi, backed by Coalition aircraft. In retaliation, ISIL executed 300 people in the western Anbar Province. It was also reported that 10,000 Sunni tribal fighters would participate in the Anbar offensive.\n\nOn 12 April, the Iraqi government declared that Tikrit was free of ISIL forces, stating that it was safe for residents to return home. However, many refugees from Tikrit still feared returning to the city. On 12 April, Abu Maria, the top ISIL leader in Tikrit, was killed by Iraqi forces at the Ajeel Oil Field near Tikrit, along with his top aide, after they were both caught trying to flee from the city. However, later reports revealed that ISIL resistance persisted until 17 April.\n\nBy mid-April 2015, ISIL had lost 25–30%, 5,000 to 6,500 square miles, in Iraq since their peak territorial influence in August 2014 to Iraqi and American coalition forces, leaving them still possessing 15,000 square miles in Iraq.\n\nOn 17 April, Iraqi forces in Tikrit located and killed 130 ISIL sleeper agents, finally ending the Second Battle of Tikrit. However, cleanup operations to remove the 5,000–10,000 IEDs left behind by ISIL are expected to take at least several months.\n\nOn 22 April 2015 Iraqi government sources reported that Abu Alaa Afri, the self-proclaimed Caliph's deputy and a former Iraqi physics teacher, had been installed as the stand-in leader while Baghdadi recuperates from his injuries.\n\nOn 3 May 2015, \"The Guardian\" reported that ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was recovering from severe injuries he received from an 18 March 2015 airstrike, in a part of Mosul. It was also reported that al-Baghdadi's spinal injury, which left him incapacitated, means that he may never be able to fully resume direct command of ISIL.\n\nAccording to the Iraqi defence ministry Abu Ala al-Afri, ISIL's Deputy Leader, was killed on 12 May 2015, in a US-led Coalition airstrike on a mosque in Tel Afar, where al-Afri was holding a meeting with other ISIL senior leaders. The airstrike was reported to have killed dozens of other ISIL militants that were present. Akram Qirbash, ISIL's top judge, was also killed in the airstrike. The U.S. Defense Department said that it could not corroborate the report.\n\nIn August 2015, fifty intelligence analysts working for United States Central Command (CENTCOM) complained to the Pentagon's Inspector General and the media, alleging that CENTCOM's senior leadership was altering or distorting intelligence reports on the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) to paint a more optimistic picture of the ongoing war against ISIL forces in Iraq and Syria. They were subsequently joined by civilian and Defense Intelligence Agency analysts working for CENTCOM. Members of the groups began anonymously leaking details of the case to the press in late-August. In February 2017, the Inspector General of the United States Department of Defense completed its investigation and cleared the senior leadership of CENTCOM, concluding that \"allegations of intelligence being intentionally altered, delayed or suppressed by top CENTCOM officials from mid-2014 to mid-2015 were largely unsubstantiated.\"\n\nOn 17 October 2015, an MQ-1B Predator drone from 20th Attack Squadron, 432nd Wing, USAF, crashed after \"experiencing electronic systems failure and loss of control due to a lightning strike\" southeast of Baghdad; the drone was destroyed on impact.\n\nOn 22 October 2015 during 30 U.S. special forces from Delta Force and members of a Kurdish Counter-terrorism unit conducted a raid on an ISIL prison compound North of the town of Hawija in Iraq's Kirkuk province. The raid liberated approximately 70 hostages, including more than 20 members of the Iraqi Security Forces. The Kurdish Regional Government asked U.S. special operations forces to support an operation to free hostages that were being held inside the prison and were going to be executed, Master Sergeant Joshua Wheeler was killed in the raid, he was the first American service member killed in action as a result of enemy fire while fighting ISIL and at the time he was the first American to be killed in action in Iraq since November 2011.\n\nThe US-led coalition began targeting the IS chemical weapons infrastructure with airstrikes and special forces raids, the coalition is focusing on destroying laboratories and equipment, whilst further special forces raids are planned to target IS chemical weapons experts.\n\nUS officials reported that Delta Force operatives have carried out operations to target, capture or kill top ISIS operatives in Iraq, reportedly beginning in late February 2016, after several weeks of covert preparation such as setting up safe houses, establishing informant networks and coordinating operations with Iraqi and Peshmerga units. The Delta force operators are part of an Expeditionary Targeting Force that is also made up of operators from the US military's so-called \"Tier One\" Special Operations units, numbering around 200 personnel. Their main objectives are to gather enough intelligence from raids on terrorist-occupied compounds and hideouts, then from intelligence gathered at those sites they will give the ETF more intelligence about ISIS networks and quickly attack additional and related targets, in what's known as \"targeted\" missions. This strategy was tested during the May 2015 raid on Deir Ezzor in Syria. The ETF has so far collected enough intelligence about ISIS operations in Iraq in up to half a dozen locations that raids and field operations are ready to take place. In late-February, U.S. special forces captured Sleiman Daoud al-Afari, an ISIS senior chemical weapons engineer, in a raid in Badoosh, north-west of Mosul, there were no US casualties. Afari's capture is the first known major success of this new strategy.\n\nOn 1 March 2016, a U.S. special operations assault force captured an ISIS operative during a raid in northern Iraq and is expected to apprehend and interrogate a number of others in coming months.\n\nOn 19 March, Staff Sergeant , a field artilleryman with the Battalion Landing Team, 2nd Battalion 6th Marines, 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit, was killed by an ISIS rocket attack on Firebase Bell near Makhmur, 8 other Marines were also injured, the Marines returned fire with their artillery. The Marines from the 26th MEU first began moving into the area just 2 weeks before, deploying from the . The base will be used by the U.S. military to support the Iraqi 15th Division when they attempt to retake Mosul and the Marines had finished setting up and testing their howitzers just 2 or 3 days before the attack. The joint taskforce overseeing the campaign against ISIS announced it was deploying additional Marines from the 26th MEU to Iraq to join the roughly 3,700 U.S. troops already deployed there to combat ISIS. There are already more than 4,000 Marines and sailors who have been deployed to Iraq since October.\n\nOn 18 April 2016, U.S. Special forces and Kurdish forces launched a raid on Hammam al-'Alil which killed Salman Abu Shabib al-Jebouri; a senior IS commander who was a leading member of the IS military council, two of his aides were also killed. US Defence Secretary Ash Carter announced that the US is to send 200 extra troops; the majority of them being special forces and 8 Apache attack helicopters to Iraq, the remainder will include trainers, security forces for the advisers, and maintenance crews for the Apaches, increasing the number of US personnel in the country to around 4,100. The US also plans to give Kurdish Peshmerga forces, more than $400m in assistance.\n\nOn 25 April, a U.S. warplane dropped a guided bomb that destroyed an SUV occupied by IS leader Raphael Saihou Hostey near Mosul, Hostey was a recruiter for IS, U.S. drone operators had been stalking him for days before the order came to kill him.\n\nOn 3 May 2016, Special Warfare Operator 1st Class ; a U.S. Navy SEAL, was killed by small arms fire during an ISIS assault on a Peshmerga position, approximately 3 to 5 kilometers behind enemy lines, near the town of Tel Skuf, 28–30 km north of Mosul, the SEAL killed was part of a 30-man SEALs unit deployed to Iraq as part of a special forces advise and assist mission. 125 ISIS militants broke into the position using three truck bombs followed by bulldozers which cleared the wreckage away, the U.S. responded with 11 aircraft; F-15s F-16s, A-10s, B-52s and 2 drones carrying out 31 airstrikes; which destroyed two more truck bombs stopping the attack, 58 militants were killed and more than 20 of their vehicles were also destroyed, Keating was part of a Navy SEAL quick reaction force called in by the Peshmerga. The IS attack is part of their attacks on multiple fronts overnight to obtain new ground, Iraqi military sources said that special forces had foiled an attack by five suicide bombers in the village of Khirbirdan and Peshmerga forces repelled an IS assault on Wardak. U.S. Army Colonel Steve Warren labeled the offensive as one of the most complex battlefield operations launched by ISIS since December 2015.\n\nAs of early May 2016, there are more than 5,500 U.S. military personnel in Iraq; 3,870 are deployed to advise and assist local forces fighting IS militants, the rest includes special operations personnel, logistics workers and troops on temporary rotations.\n\nSmall teams of American advisers operate from northern Iraq and Iraqi Kurdistan, providing commanders with help in military planning and logistical support. They have moved about freely to interact with commanders in the field as long as they remain well behind front lines, in the case of the firefight at Tel Skuf, a dozen U.S. troops who were advising and assisting the Peshmerga happened to be at an outpost behind the front lines that had been targeted by the large ISIS force.\n\nOn 6 May, a U.S. airstrike killed Abu Wahib; a senior IS leader in Anbar province and 3 other ISIS militants in a vehicle in Rutba.\n\nOn 17 May, the ISF takes control of the city Rutba. IS Lose the control of the strategically important town and Anbar's mostly control.\n\nOn 25 May, during Operation Breaking Terrorism, U.S. airstrikes killed the commander of Daesh forces in Fallujah; Maher al-Bilawai in Fallujah.\n\nIn late May, a U.S. special forces operator was indirectly wounded in an ISIS attack near Irbil.\n\nOn 12 June, a US Apache attack helicopter carried out a strike that destroyed an IS car bomb near Qayyarah, 50 miles south of Mosul in support of Iraqi forces positioning ahead of an operation to retake Mosul from insurgents. It was the first time since President Obama authorized the helicopters' use in offensive operations earlier this year.\n\nOn 25 June, a U.S. airstrike near Mosul killed 2 senior ISIS commanders: one was Basim Muhammad Ahmad Sultan al-Bajari, ISIS' deputy minister of war, who oversaw ISIS' efforts to capture Mosul in June 2014 and consolidated ISIL's control over Mosul, he also led the ISIL Jaysh al-Dabiq battalion known for using vehicle-borne IEDs, suicide bombers and mustard gas in its attacks. The other was Hatim Talib al-Hamduni, a military commander in the area and head of military police for self-proclaimed Ninawa state; together, they engaged in dictatorial rule and sectarian murder and oppression since 2014.\n\nOn 29 June, in support of the 2016 Abu Kamal offensive—the offensive by the Syrian rebels from different factions that aims to capture Abu Kamal in Syria and effectively split its territorial holdings in two and preventing the transfer of fighters and weapons between the two countries—on the Iraqi side of the border, US-led coalition conducted five airstrikes near al-Qaim. Also that day in Fallujah, US-led coalition aircraft—including Iraqi aircraft, conducted airstrikes that killed at least 250 ISIS militants. Whilst Iraqi Security Forces fought them on the ground; the first strikes targeted a convoy of IS fighters trying to leave a neighborhood on the outskirts of southern Fallujah, destroying between 40–55 IS vehicles. A second convoy formed east of Ramadi later that day, coalition and Iraqi jets launched more strikes, destroying nearly 120 ISIS vehicles, but in both attacks, Iraqi Security Forces destroyed more. The figure of IS vehicles destroyed rose up to nearly 800—Iraq's Joint Operations Command said the country's forces destroyed 603 IS vehicles, whilst the Pentagon estimated that coalition strikes hit at least 175, but those figures could not be independently confirmed.\n\nOn 11 July, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter announced that the US is sending 560 additional US military personnel to Iraq, bringing the number of US personnel in Iraq to about 4,650. They will be stationed at Qayara airbase, which was recaptured on 9 July by Iraqi government forces being supported by U.S.-led airstrikes; most of them will serve in training and advisory roles, including engineers and logistics experts and with the airbase as a key staging area, they will assist local forces in the retaking of the IS stronghold of Mosul. Also, a new \"Nineveh Liberation Operations Center\" has been set up to coordinate the offensive, complete with dozens of U.S. and British advisers.\n\nOn 5 August, the Pentagon announced about 400 U.S. soldiers would deploy south of Mosul to Qayarah airbase to aid in the operation to retake Mosul.\nOn 28 September, the \"New York Times\" reported that US officials said President Obama had authorized the sending of an additional 600 US troops to Iraq to assist Iraqi forces in the upcoming battle to retake Mosul from IS.\n\nOn 2 October, two Kurdish soldiers were killed and two French special forces operators were wounded by an IS drone north of Mosul, the drone was intercepted in flight and whilst they were examining the drone a small explosive device disguised as a battery blew up.\n\nCoalition forces are playing a key role in the Battle of Mosul, on 17 October, \"The Guardian\" reported that US, British and French special forces, which have been advising the Peshmerga, will play a prominent role in calling in airstrikes against ISIS targets inside the city. Adding that, according to the Pentagon, the US deployed an additional 600 troops to aid in the city's capture, bringing the total number of US personnel in Iraq to more than 5,200. On 19 October, \"Stars and Stripes\" reported that U.S. Apache helicopters joined the battle, launching night attacks against IS militants. On 20 October, Chief Petty Officer Jason C. Finan, of the U.S. Navy's Explosive Ordnance Disposal Mobile Unit 3 who was attached to a SEAL team that was advising the Iraqi Counterterrorism Service, was killed in an improvised explosive device attack. The \"Washington Post\" reported that Lieutenant General Stephen Townsend said the Iraqi troops were attacked by Islamic State fighters and the SEAL team members decided to pull back along with the troops they were advising. Finan was in a vehicle and was telling other members of his team that he had spotted a roadside bomb when he was killed. \"Fox news\" reported that there are upwards of 300 special operations forces embedded with Iraqi and Kurdish troops in the fight to take back Mosul. It was reported that about 100 U.S. advisers - mostly Special Forces and forward air controllers, are moving with Iraqi forces, backed by U.S. airstrikes and rocket artillery fire, in the ground offensive to drive the IS from Mosul.\n\nOn 1 November, \"Stars and Stripes\" reported that U.S. special operators were at the front line on the edge of Mosul - just outside the village of Gogjali, with elite Iraqi troops from the U.S.-trained Golden Division who were preparing to enter Mosul. The Americans wore black uniforms and drove black armoured vehicles to blend in with their Iraqi counterparts, U.S. special operators near Gogjali set up a mortar, unloaded a bazooka-style weapon and watched nearby fighting from a farmhouse roof; At around midday a drone the Americans had launched earlier stalled and crashed beside the farmhouse, breaking its wings and propeller. An Iraqi general told The Associated Press that later that day, Iraq's special forces entered the outskirts of Mosul, taking the state television building and advancing to the borders of Karama district despite fierce resistance by IS fighters. The Associated Press reported that as the sun went down, a sandstorm blew in, reducing visibility to only 100 yards and bringing the day's combat to an end, the AP reported. Meanwhile, U.S. Army engineers from the 101st Airborne Division also pushed closer to Mosul, searching for improvised bombs just west of the Great Zab River.\n\nOn 4 December, a coalition airstrike in Mosul killed Falah al-Rashidi- an ISIL leader who was involved in ISIL's use of vehicle bombs in Mosul, a spokesman for CJTF–OIR, Colonel John Dorrian said \"His removal further degrades ISIL's [vehicle bomb] threat, which has been the enemy's weapon of choice for attacking Iraqi security forces and civilians.\" Also that day Abu Turq was killed in Sharqat, Dorrian said \"he was killed in an airstrike while fighting from a rooftop position in Sharqat, where he and several other fighters were moving a heavy weapon to fire upon partner forces. His removal increases pressure on the ISIL financial network, which is already severely disrupted by several hundred strikes on oil infrastructure and bulk cache sites.\"\n\nOn 21 December, an airstrike in Qaim killed Ahmad Abdullah Hamad al-Mahalawi, al-Mahalawi was ISIL senior in Qaim, Colonel John Dorrian a spokesman for CJTF–OIR said \"His removal will disrupt ISIL's ability to conduct operations along the Euphrates River Valley.\"\n\nOn 27 January \"Sky News\" reported that French special forces in Mosul discovered a warehouse and unloading area near the Tigris River where dozens of missiles were stored alongside makeshift launchers with Russian markings. The weapons are thought to have come from Syria, most were designed to be fired by jets but one was a 10 ft-long missile- beneath the cover of trees IS fighters had been working on building a Scud missile. Near the preparation site, three large refrigerated cargo carriers had been opened and were full of coking coal but buried inside, Iraqi soldiers found containers with an unidentified substance inside, the area smelt strongly of chemicals, French soldiers advised the Iraqi team that the whole area was contaminated; tests are now being carried out on what senior commanders called \"poison.\" Iraqi special forces say IS were planning to launch long and short-range missiles tipped with chemical or biological war heads from western Mosul; Brigadier Ali of the Counter Terrorism Service, in charge of the weapons discovery, said he believed the production of the chemical weapons had been halted by the start of the offensive on Mosul and the targeting of IS fighters by coalition planes and drones. Later, the \"Guardian\" reported that Brigadier General Haider Fadhil from Iraqi special forces said French officials tested the chemical and confirmed it was a mustard agent.\n\nOn 11 February, the \"Telegraph\" reported that Iraqi aircraft carried out an airstrike on a house in Anbar where ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was holding a meeting with senior ISIS commanders, killing more than a dozen.\n\nOn 17 March, a U.S.-led coalition airstrike in Mosul killed more than 200 civilians.\n\nOn 27 March, it was reported that 300 paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne's 2d Brigade Combat Team will temporarily deploy to northern Iraq to provide additional advise-and-assist combating ISIS, particularly to speed up the offensive against ISIS in Mosul. On 29 March, \"Stars and Stripes\" reported that 400 soldiers from the 1st Armoured division's headquarters element will deploy to Iraq in summer 2017, where it will lead the coalition's ground efforts. An study published in the journal \"PLOS Medicine\" showed that US Coalition forces killed more civilians than the Islamic State during the nine-month battle to liberate the Iraqi city of Mosul than during the three-year occupation by the Islamic State\n\nOn 1 April, \"Military.com\" reported that Iraqi fighter jets carried out airstrikes on IS militants-who had crossed over the border from Syria-in the town of Baaj near the Syrian border, killing between 150-200 militants. \"Reuters\" reported that Iraqi State TV said that, citing Iraq's military intelligence, an air strike in the region of al-Qaim killed Ayad al-Jumaili, who was believed to be the \"second-in-command\" of ISIS.\n\nOn 29 April, \"Army Times\" reported that First Lieutenant Weston Lee of 1st Battalion, 325th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division died from wounds received from the detonation of an IED during a patrol outside Mosul.\n\nOn 13 August, \"Stars and Stripes\" reported that 2 US Soldiers of 2nd Battalion, 319th Airborne Field Artillery Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, based at an undisclosed firebase in Iraq (where US troops are supporting Iraqi forces in their ongoing offensive against ISIS militants after they ousted them from Mosul) were killed when an artillery round prematurely exploded, five others were also wounded in the blast.\n\nOn 1 October, Specalist Alexander W. Missildine of the 710th Brigade Support Battalion, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division, was killed by an EFP (a type of improvised explosive that was first used by insurgents supplied by Iran with the help of Hezbollah for use against armored vehicles during the Iraq War) whilst traveling on a major road in Saladin Governorate or Nineveh Governorate, another soldier was wounded. The \"Washington Post\" reported that the device had not been used in Iraq for six years and that ISIS did not make any public claim of responsibility after the attack, but that it did coincide with threats from some of the Iranian-backed Shia militias who fought with the US against the ISIS but now want US forces to leave the country now that ISIS is almost defeated. According to Greg Robin, an expert in explosive devices for the Sahan Research Group, the bomb has been used in Afghanistan, by al-Shabaab in Somalia and Palestinian Islamic Jihad group.\n\nOn December 9, 2017, it is reported that ISIL had lost all strategic territory in Iraq.\n\nOn 22 December, Australian Defense Minister Marise Payne said that Australia will end air strikes against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria and bring its six Super Hornet planes back home. She also added that other Australian operations in the region would continue, with 80 personnel who are part of the Special Operations Task Group in Iraq, including Australian special forces, continuing their deployment. Australian soldiers have also been training Iraqi troops at the Taji military base outside Baghdad.\n\nThe US announced that it would begin to reduce its troop levels in Iraq.\n\nAs of July 2, 2018, the US still maintains a military presence of 5,000 troops stationed in Iraq with the task of helping train and assist Iraqi forces.\n\nOn 4 October 2018, an operation against ISIL was started by the Iraqi military along with the military forces of France and the United States under the CJTF-OIR coalition in the Anbar Governorate around the city of Qaim and the Syrian border where ISIL continues to operate and maintain a strong and large presence. During the operation ISIL claimed to thwart an American-led assault near the Syrian border and also claimed to have killed 3 US soldiers and wounded 4 others in the clashes, the US military has not confirmed or denied the claimed losses.\n\nOn 5 October 2018, US-led Coalition planes bombed an ISIL position in the village of Kushaf near the Tigris river in the Kirkuk Governorate, reportedly killing 6 ISIL members, on the same day ISIL detonated a roadside bomb killing an oil employee and injuring 11 others in a bus in Baiji in the Saladin Governorate, and in a separate attack in Fallujah in the Anbar Governorate ISIL detonated a car bomb injuring an Iraqi policeman and 3 others.\n\nOn 5 October 2015, CJTF-OIR announced that it had given 50,000 rifles and machine guns, 56 million rounds of small arms ammunition, 677+ mortars, 73,000+ mortar rounds, 5,000+ anti-tank weapons, 56,000+ anti-tank rounds, and 150+ vehicles to the Iraqi Kurdish forces.\n\n\n\nThe Building Partner Capacity (BPC) program is meant to help the Iraqi government to prepare forces for the counter-attack against ISIL and the regaining of its territory. Australia in April 2015 committed 300 military personnel to the BPC training mission in Iraq. According to the U.S. Department of Defense, by May 2015 a dozen countries had committed themselves to the BPC program: Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, United Kingdom and United States. By May 2015, the program had trained 6,500 Iraqi forces.\n\n\n\n\nThe United States and international partners have undertaken a large humanitarian effort to support refugees stranded in northern Iraq with airdropped supplies.\n\nOn 7 August, 2 Lockheed C-130 Hercules's and 1 Boeing C-17 Globemaster III dropped tens of thousands of meals and thousands of gallons of drinking water to Yazidi refugees who were stranded in the Sinjar Mountains by advancing ISIL forces. On 9 August 2014, U.S. aircraft again dropped humanitarian supplies over northern Iraq, this time consisting of 4,000 gallons of drinking water and 16,000 ready-to-eat meals.\n\nOn 10 August, the United Kingdom began humanitarian supply airdrops to the Yazidi refugees on Mount Sinjar.\n\nOn the night of 13–14 August, a 16-aircraft mission including US C-17s and C-130Hs, a British C-130J, and an Australian C-130J airdropped supplies to Yezidi civilians trapped on Mount Sinjar in what was later described as \"the first mass air delivery of humanitarian cargo since the outbreak of violence in East Timor in 1999.\"\n\nHumanitarian intervention efforts per country:\n\nAccording to Iraq Body Count, 118 civilians were killed by coalition airstrikes in 2014 and 845 in 2015.\n\nAccording to \"Airwars\", a team of independent journalists, between 1,687 and 2,534 civilians were killed by coalition airstrikes in 288 incidents in Iraq and Syria between 8 August 2014 and 18 October 2016; other incidents with thousands more civilian fatalities were also recorded by Airwars, but the US-led coalition's responsibility couldn't be confirmed with equal confidence in those cases.\n\nIn February 2017, the Trump administration stated that the U.S. would sharply escalate the offensive in Mosul. The Pentagon reported that around 1,400 separate munitions were unleashed over the last two weeks of March. The Iraqi Observatory for Human Rights corroborated an increase in the rate of drone strikes and also documented eyewitness accounts of 3,846 civilian deaths and the destruction of 10,000 homes since the offensive into Western Mosul began in February 2017. Bassma Bassim, the head of the Mosul District Council, stated that air raids from 10 March to 17 March alone had killed \"more than 500\" civilians.\n\nOn 9 August, U.S. airstrikes killed 16 ISIL fighters, Iraqi officials reported. Between 9–11 August, in a concerted U.S.-Iraqi operation, an Iraqi airstrike killed 45 ISIL men. On 8 September, in an operation of Iraqi forces with U.S. airstrikes, Iraq reported that 15 ISIL fighters were killed. On 23 February 2015, it was revealed that over 8,500 ISIL fighters had been killed by US-led airstrikes, with at least 7,000 of the deaths in Iraq.\n\nBy early June 2015, ISIL had lost over 13,000 fighters to Coalition airstrikes in Iraq and Syria, with 10,800+ of the deaths in Iraq. By July 2015, ISIL had lost over 15,000 fighters to US-led Coalition airstrikes in Iraq and Syria, with 12,100+ fighters killed in Iraq.\n\n\"At least 999 Peshmerga troops lost their lives and 4,596 have been injured between June 10, 2014 and February 3, 2015,\" said Jabbar Yawar, secretary-general of the Ministry of Peshmerga Affairs to reporters at a press conference in Arbil on 4 February 2015.\n\nIn late February 2015, it was revealed that the Peshmerga losses had increased to over 1,000 dead, and over 5,000 wounded.\n\nThe United States suffered its first casualty of the conflict on 2 October 2014, when a United States Marine Corps MV-22 Osprey crashed in the Persian Gulf after takeoff from , leaving one of its crewmen missing and presumed dead.\n\nWhile some U.S. troops were already active in Iraq for several purposes since June 2014 (see section Background), on 13 August, the U.S. deployed another 130 military advisers to Northern Iraq, and up to 20 U.S. Marines and special forces servicemen landed on Mount Sinjar from V-22 aircraft to coordinate the evacuation of Yazidi refugees. A team of British SAS was already in the area.\n\nOn 3 September, an increase of 350 servicemen was announced to be sent to Baghdad, increasing U.S. forces in Baghdad to 820, and increasing U.S. forces in Iraq to 1,213.\n\nOn 10 September, President Obama gave a speech in which he reiterated that American troops will not fight in combat. He also said that about 500 more troops will be sent to Iraq to help train Iraqi forces.\nAt the end of September, Obama planned to send 1,600 troops to Iraq as \"advisers\" to the Iraqi army and Kurdish forces. 800 of them would provide security for soldiers and Marines and for property; hundreds would train and advise Iraqi and Kurdish forces on how to fight ISIL.\n\nIn early November 2014, President Obama announced that he would be doubling the number of US troops present on the ground in Iraq to around 3,000 men. By early December 2014, the number of US ground troops in Iraq had increased to 3,100, while other nations in the US-led Coalition decided to send 1,500 more ground troops to Iraq, increasing the total number of troops to 4,600.\n\nIn January 2015, the 1,000 Paratroopers of the \"Panther Brigade\" of the US Army's 82nd Airborne Division were deployed to Iraq. They came with an additional 300 soldiers, Airmen, and Marines, bringing US troop levels deployed in the country to 4,400.\n\nAccording to the New York Times, by 4 February 2015, the US had 4,500 troops in Iraq. Over the next two years, this number seemed to plateau at a number around 4,500. As of Sept 28, 2016, according to the DOD, the United States authorized additional troops for Iraq and Syria, for a total of 5,262.\n\nWith the arrival of the new Trump administration in January 2017, a change in policy was instituted regarding the disclosure of current troop levels as well as the timing of any additional deployments to the area, thus making good on his campaign promises to utilize the \"element of surprise.\" As of April 2017, according to the LA Times, unbeknownst to both Congress and the general public, there had been two non-disclosed troop deployments in the month of March: a deployment of 400 US Marines to northern Syria and 300 US Army Paratroopers to the area around Mosul. As of 2 April 2017, the current US troop level, or \"force management level\" — the number of full-time troops deployed, is currently around 5,200 in Iraq and 500 in Syria, with about 1,000 more troops there on a temporary basis.\n\nAs of July 2, 2018, the US still maintains a limited military presence of 5,000 troops stationed in Iraq with the task of helping train and assist Iraqi forces.\n\nUnlike previous U.S. combat operations, no name was initially given to the 2014 military operation in Iraq and Syria by the U.S. government, until mid-October. The fact that the operation was still nameless drew considerable media criticism. U.S. soldiers remained ineligible for Campaign Medals and other service decorations due to the continuing ambiguous nature of the U.S. involvement in Iraq. On 15 October 2014, two months after the first airstrikes by the U.S., the operation was named \"Inherent Resolve\".\n\nIn the first U.S. airstrikes on 8 August, armed drones as well as fixed wing aircraft:\nMcDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet fighters, were used.\nThe F/A-18s were that day launched from the aircraft carrier . A Navy official said that the two planes involved in the airstrikes were Super Hornets from Carrier Air Wing 8, of Naval Air Station Oceana, Virginia.\nA number of Fairchild Republic A-10C Thunderbolt II's from the USAF's 163d Expeditionary Fighter Squadron were deployed on 17 November 2014.\n\nThe following is a list of publicly disclosed air bases that have been used for the interventions in Iraq and Syria. It is likely that there are other, yet undisclosed air bases being used. Turkey initially refused to allow using Incirlik Air Base for airstrikes against ISIL, but changed their position in July 2015 when they allowed U.S. fighters to use both it and Diyarbakır.\n\n\nKurdish and Iraqi forces battling Islamic State fighters have been closely cooperating with U.S. air force controllers based in Baghdad and in Erbil, suggesting ISIL targets to those U.S. air force controllers. The US controllers then checked those suggestions with live stream video information (ISR), to avoid hitting Iraqi or Kurdish forces with their airstrikes.\n\nThe initial decision to intervene in Iraq was met with bipartisan support in the United States Congress, albeit subject to a range of interpretations as to what constitutes legitimate intervention. Barbara Lee supported a strictly humanitarian intervention and opposed any mission creep as did Richard Blumenthal who argued for humanitarian relief, but opposed a prolonged direct military involvement. Bob Corker expected greater clarity with regards to the intervention's objectives, time frame and source of authorization. while Dick Durbin opined that he, \"still had concerns\" despite assurances from Obama that no U.S. ground troops would be deployed in Iraq. Congressional Democrats and Republicans who were more hawkish for their support for the intervention included the Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee Dianne Feinstein and then-Speaker of the United States House of Representatives John Boehner.\n\nDespite the bipartisan support, the President's decision to re-engage the United States into a conflict in Iraq has attracted criticism from both the political left and right. Andrew Bacevich argued against military action, but not humanitarian assistance as did Seumas Milne who argued against military, but not humanitarian intervention. On the contrary, Cal Thomas accused Obama's decision to withhold American military assistance barring efforts by the Iraqi government to bridge the country's sectarian differences as tantamount to abandonment while an article in the Globe and Mail cautioned that an American intervention \"would kill both ISIS and MCIR fighters as well as many Sunni civilians and fail to fix the underlying issues.\" An article by the Associated Press wrote that critics of Obama drew a direct connection between his foreign policy approach that underestimated ISIS and his decision to withdraw all American troops from Iraq in late 2011.\n\nMirroring the bipartisan congressional support for the interventions, polls, notwithstanding varying qualifications, show majorities of Americans supporting air strike in Iraq.\n\nThe editorial boards of \"The Washington Post\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Guardian\", and \"The Wall Street Journal\" penned editorials that were supportive of the intervention. Two editorials by The Washington Post argued that Iraqi's disintegration would threaten national, regional and global security and described efforts by the Obama administration to create a more inclusive Iraq government as presenting the best hope for the country in its fight against ISIS. Two editorials written in August by the New York Times also supported the intervention, praising Obama's sagacity in delivering the necessary humanitarian assistance to the Christians, Yazidis and other minorities on Mount Sinjar while eschewing the redeployment of American ground troops, and describing the subsequent deployment of American military airstrikes and other forms of assistance as, although insufficient, a necessary component of a more comprehensive strategy to defeating ISIS. An editorial by the Guardian written in June opined that ISIS's June 2014 Iraqi offensive invited foreign intervention that included the United States and that Obama's conditionalization of aid on Iraqis working together was in the best interest of all of Iraq's regions. Similarly, an editorial in the Wall Street Journal written in August wrote of the strategic interest the United States had in defeating ISIS and positively assessed the efficacy of American airstrikes in, \"...reducing the jihadists' room for maneuver and giving new confidence to the Kurdish forces.\" While condemning ISIS's savagery and acknowledging the threat to American national interests in the Middle East that the group posed, an editorial by the editorial board of the Los Angeles Times argued that congressional authorization should override Obama's legal authority as the ultimate legal basis for the usage of military force in Iraq.\n\nHowever, support for the intervention in the media was not unanimous. A \"Washington Post\" editorial criticized the American strategy of creating a unity government in order to fight ISIS was a mirage due to the country's political-religious cleavages and ISIS's numerical and technological superiority. William Hartung, writing in \"Stars and Stripes\" argued that the intervention would result in mission creep.\n\nIn an article for the BBC, Marc Weller, professor of international law at Cambridge University, argued that the US airstrikes are consistent with international law. Specifically, he argued that: the government in Baghdad invited international forces to join in the fight against IS; the newly reconstituted and religiously representative Iraqi government has a positive obligation to deliver on its constitutional promises and defend its population from subjugation by ISIS; and foreign intervention exercising the right of collective self-defense on behalf of Iraq can involve forcible action in IS-controlled territories in Syria that is proportional to the necessity of securing Iraq's borders. Similarly, Michael Ignatieff, professor of politics at Harvard University discussed the international dimensions of American intervention in Iraq in an interview with Der Spiegel in which he described the Islamic State as an \"attack on all values of civilization\" and that it was essential that America, \"continued with their air strikes.\"\n\nRamzi Mardini in \"The New York Times\" wrote an op-ed opposing armed intervention as it exacerbated the blowback risk of terrorism against US although he did not object to humanitarian assistance aimed at helping the persecuted religious minorities living in ISIS controlled territories and instead called for greater diplomatic intervention in which the United States played a key role as an arbiter between Iraq's warring sectarian factions. On the other hand, Aaron Zelin of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy argues that ISIS are \"likely planning attacks whether the U.S. conducts targeted air strikes or not\" and that, in his opinion, the United States, \"should destroy them as soon as possible.\" Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and members of the Republican party including John McCain, Lindsey Graham, Ted Cruz, and John Boehner have likewise called for greater military strikes in the region to contain the Islamic State.\n\nIn an interview with the Atlantic, Hillary Clinton suggested that the current crisis in Iraq was a result of his [President Obama] refusal to arm Syrian rebels, which Obama, in a meeting with lawmakers before Clinton's interview, criticized as \"horseshit.\"\n\nAn editorial in \"Vox\" defined the intervention as being limited to Kurdistan, effectively allowing the Islamic State to control a large part of Iraq absent any other occupying power. The editorial argued that the stability of Kurdistan would make it a better ally for the US.\n\nThe Secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council Ali Shamkhani condemned the US-led coalition airstrikes in Mosul in March 2017 which killed more than 200 civilians and accused the United States of committing war crimes, saying: \"This war crime is similar to the behavior of Daesh [Islamic State] and other Takfiri groups in targeting civilians and innocent people and should be urgently addressed in courts of justice.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18498060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18498060", "title": "Backseat Film Festival", "text": "Backseat Film Festival\n\nThe Backseat Film Festival is an independent film festival organized by Doug Sakmann, Nick Esposito, and Zafer Ulkucu.\n\nBeginning in Park City, UT during the winter of 2003 as one of many alternatives to the Sundance Film Festival it quickly transformed into a touring festival that continues to the present day.\n\nDuring the summer of 2003 the festival joined forces with the Vans Warped Tour and its screening bus, the Dirty Erin, traveled through 44 cities across North America playing films for tens of thousands of young people. Doug Sakmann, former Festival Director for the Troma Films' Tromadance Film Festival, filmed a slasher film series Punk Rock Holocaust during this tour which garnered international press attention for the festival.\n\nBackseat is currently based in Philadelphia, PA. The touring festival travels across the U.S. each year screening films for those interested in edgy, alternative indy films. It has also showcased its film lineup at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "15892477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15892477", "title": "Battle of Pelusium (525 BC)", "text": "Battle of Pelusium (525 BC)\n\nThe Battle of Pelusium was the first major battle between the Achaemenid Empire and Egypt. This decisive battle transferred the throne of the Pharaohs to Cambyses II of Persia. It was fought near Pelusium, an important city in the eastern extremes of Egypt's Nile Delta, 30 km to the southeast of the modern Port Said, in 525 BC. The battle was preceded and followed by sieges at Gaza and Memphis.\n\nThe best recounting of the events leading to the battle of Pelusium is from Greek historians, particularly Herodotus. According to Herodotus the conflict between the Pharaoh Amasis II of Egypt and Cambyses II of Persia was a gradual process involving multiple personalities, mostly Egyptians. According to Herodotus, an Egyptian physician was requested by Cambyses from Amasis on good terms, to which Amasis complied. The physician (most likely an ancient ophthalmologist) resented the forced labor that Amasis had imposed on him, and in retaliation, persuaded Cambyses to ask of Amasis a daughter in marriage, knowing how Amasis would dislike losing his daughter to a Persian. Cambyses complied, requesting the hand of the daughter of Amasis in marriage. \n\nAmasis, unable to let go of his offspring, and unwilling to start a conflict with the Persians, instead sent an Egyptian girl named Nitetis, who was a daughter of an Egyptian named Apries. According to Herodotus, Apries was the previous pharaoh whom Amasis had defeated and killed, and whose daughter was now to be sent in place of Amasis's own offspring. Once greeted by Cambyses as \"the daughter of Amasis\", Nitetis explained the trickery employed by Amasis to avoid giving away his own daughter to the king. This infuriated Cambyses, who vowed to avenge the insult.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, another motivation that solidified Cambyses's expedition into Egypt was Phanes of Halicarnassus. Originally a council man and advisor to Amasis, an unknown course of events led to bitterness developing between them to the point that Amasis sent an Egyptian eunuch after Phanes, pursuing him to Lydia. Phanes was captured in Lycia but outwitted his guards by getting them drunk and escaped to Persia, and assisted the Persian king in all manners of strategy, and was instrumental in shaping his resolve for conquest of Egypt.\n\nDespite having full control over the Neo-Babylonian empire and its sub-regions including northern Arabia, Cambyses sent a message to the King of Arabia requesting safe passage through the desert road from Gaza to Pelusium. The Arabian king, himself an enemy of Amasis, and glad to facilitate his destruction, granted safe passage to Cambyses and even supplied him with troops. According to Polybius, even with all the precautions taken on entering the border of Egypt, only the city of Gaza resisted the Persians, which fell after a long siege. When the news of the impending battle reached Egypt, Psamtik III (Psammenitus), son and heir of Amasis II, gathered the Egyptian army, stationing it along the fork of the Red Sea and the river Nile. Amasis himself died six months before Cambyses reached Egypt.\n\nPsamtik had hoped that Egypt would be able to withstand the threat of the Persian attack by an alliance with the Greeks, but this hope failed, as the Cypriot towns and the tyrant Polycrates of Samos, who possessed a large fleet, now preferred to join the Persians. That one of Egypt's most prominent tactical advisers, Phanes of Halicarnassus, had already gone over to the Persian side meant that Psamtik was entirely dependent on his own limited military experience. Polycrates sent 40 triremes to the Persians. Psamtik, in a violent act of revenge prior to the confrontation with the Persian army, arrested all the sons of Phanes and stood them between two bowls. He then cut them one by one, draining their blood and mixing it with wine. Psamtik then drank of it and made every other councilman drink their blood before the battles.\n\nThe decisive military conflict happened at Pelusium. As Herodotus describes a sea of skulls at the Nile basin, upon the remnants of which he remarks on the differences between the Persian and the Egyptian heads. According to Ctesias, fifty thousand Egyptians fell, whereas the entire loss on the Persian side was only seven thousand. After this short struggle, the troops of Psamtik fled, and soon the retreat became a complete rout. Disoriented, and fleeing, the Egyptians took shelter in Memphis. The Egyptians were now besieged in their stronghold of Memphis.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, Cambyses, in a last attempt to bring an end to the struggle, sent a Persian herald in a ship to exhort the Egyptians to give up before further bloodshed. Upon sighting the Persian vessel at the port of Memphis, the Egyptians ran out, attacking the ship and killing every man in it, carrying their torn limbs with them back to the city. As Cambyses advanced to Memphis, it is said that for every Mytilenian killed during the siege of Memphis, ten Egyptians died, which makes the number of dead Egyptians two thousand, who may have been executed at the time or after the siege, because two hundred Mytileneans were killed. Pelusium probably surrendered itself immediately after the battle. The pharaoh was captured after the fall of Memphis and allowed to live under Persian watch. He later commited suicide after attempting a revolt against the Persians.\n\nThe fields around were strewn with the bones of the combatants when Herodotus visited. He noted that the skulls of the Egyptians were distinguishable from those of the Persians by their superior hardness, a fact confirmed he said by the mummies, and which he ascribed to the Egyptians' shaving their heads from infancy, and to the Persians covering them up with folds of cloth or linen.\n\nPolyaenus, \"a retired Macedonian general more interested in novelty than historical accuracy\", claims that, according to legend, Cambyses captured Pelusium by using a clever strategy. The Egyptians regarded certain animals, especially cats, as being sacred (they had a cat goddess named Bastet), and would not injure them on any account. Polyaenus claims that Cambyses had his men carry the \"sacred\" animals in front of them to the attack. The Egyptians did not dare to shoot their arrows for fear of wounding the animals, and so Pelusium was stormed successfully. This would be an early form of psychological warfare.\n\nHerodotus, however, makes no mention of any such strategy, and \"gives hardly any information\" about the fighting in general. According to Herodotus, Cambyses initially behaved with a certain moderation, sparing the son of Psamtik due to feeling \"a touch of pity\", but later, dissatisfied with his victory and unable to punish the already deceased Amasis for his trickery, decided to commit what Herodotus calls an un-Persian act: he desecrated the tomb of the mummified Amasis and ordered the mummy burned.\n\nHowever, Pierre Briant concludes that Herodotus' recorded information regarding Cambyses' actions in Egypt after the victory is false.\n\nCambyses then made peace with Libyans, accepting their offer for truce. Egypt became a possession of Persia, and Cambyses its Pharaoh. Because they defeated the pharaohs of the twenty-sixth dynasty, Persian monarchs were acknowledged as pharaohs and came to be known as Egypt's Twenty-seventh Dynasty (or the first Persian period).\n\n"}
{"id": "37985990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37985990", "title": "Battle of Yarmouk Camp (December 2012)", "text": "Battle of Yarmouk Camp (December 2012)\n\nThe Battle of Yarmouk Camp (December 2012) was a period of fierce clashes in Yarmouk Camp during the Syrian Civil War. Yarmouk is a district of Damascus that is home to the biggest community of Palestinian refugees in Syria. The fighting was between the Syrian Army and PFLP-GC on one side, and Syrian rebels on the other. The rebels included the Free Syrian Army (FSA) and a group made up of Palestinians, called Liwa al-Asifa or Storm Brigade. On 17 December, it was reported that the FSA and anti-Assad Palestinians had taken control of the camp. The FSA and Syrian Army agreed to leave Yarmouk as a neutral, demilitarized zone, but sporadic clashes continued.\n\nAt the beginning of the Syrian civil war in 2011, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command (PFLP-GC) was based in Yarmouk and supported Syria's Ba'ath Party government led by the Al-Assad family. At the beginning of the war, tensions arose in Yarmouk between the PFLP-GC and anti-Assad Palestinian residents. On 5 June 2011, a number of Yarmouk residents were shot dead while protesting at the Israeli border. Allegedly angered by the PFLP-GC's refusal to take part in the protests, thousands of mourners burnt-down its headquarters in Yarmouk. PFLP-GC members opened-fire on the crowd, killing 14 Palestinians and wounding 43.\n\nOn 3 August 2012, Al Arabiya reported that over 21 civilians were killed when the Syrian Army shelled Yarmouk. Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas condemned the Syrian Army for shelling the camp and chided the PFLP-GC for dragging Palestinians into the conflict.\n\nOn 31 October, the FSA announced that they had helped form a brigade made up of anti-Assad Palestinians, called Liwa al-Asifa (Storm Brigade), who have been armed to take control of Yarmouk. The PFLP-GC leader Ahmed Jibril and his men were accused of harassing Yarmouk's residents and attacking FSA fighters. Many Palestinian men from the camp also joined other FSA units and fought with them in the Damascus districts of Tadamon and Al-Hajar Al-Aswad.\n\nFierce fighting in Yarmouk began on 5 December 2012 and lasted until 17 December. The fighting mainly involved the FSA (along with the Liwa al-Asifa brigade) fighting against the PLFP-GC.\n\nOn 16 December, Syrian Army jets bombed Yarmouk, for the first time since the civil war began. Activists reported that a school and mosque sheltering refugees were hit. It was reported that at least 23 were killed, all civilians. About 1,000 Palestinians reached Lebanon less than 48 hours after the bombing. The new arrivals said they were now openly hostile towards the Syrian government that had long portrayed itself as the protector of Palestinians in Syria. Iran's Fars News said that \"terrorist\" rebels had entered Yarmouk and shot dead \"dozens of Palestinians and Syrian civilians\".\n\nOn 17 December, it was claimed that many PFLP-GC fighters defected to the rebels. One PFLP-GC commander said \"I felt that we became soldiers for the Assad regime, not guards for the camps, so I decided to defect\". He claimed that government forces stood by and watched as the PFLP-GC fought the rebels, without helping the Palestinians. Ahmed Jibril reportedly fled Damascus for the Mediterranean city of Tartous. PFLP-GC political bureau member Hussam Arafat, however, announced that Jibril was still in Damascus and that only a small number of fighters had defected. That day, rebel forces gained full control of Yarmouk as well as another Palestinian camp, with help from anti-Assad Palestinians, pushing out the pro-government PFLP-GC fighters. The pro-government PFLP-GC fighters were reportedly overwhelmed and suffered great losses as they were unable to evacuate their wounded due to rebel snipers on the roofs. Government forces had surrounded the camp, however, as many refugees fled.\n\nOn 20 December, the FSA said it had pushed all pro-government fighters out of Yarmouk and handed it back to the Palestinians. The day before, fresh fighting on the outskirts of Yarmouk killed a civilian and four PFLP-GC members.\n\nShortly after, government and rebel representatives agreed that all armed groups should withdraw from Yarmouk and leave it as a neutral zone. The agreement also said that the PFLP-GC should be dismantled and its weapons surrendered. However, a spokesman for the pro-rebel Palestine Refugee Camp Network said, \"the implementation of the truce has been problematic\" because of \"intermittent\" government shelling of Yarmouk and clashes on its outskirts. An AFP reporter at Batikha, the main entrance to the camp, reported sporadic shooting on 21 December but no gunmen were seen on the streets of Yarmouk.\n\nFellow Palestinian left-wing groups—including the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), the biggest Palestinian leftist group—berated Jibril and the PFLP-GC. One PFLP official said \"Everyone knows the true size of PFLP-GC. They are not representative of the Palestinians\". Another said that Jibril \"does not even belong to the Palestinian Left. He is closer to the extremist right-wing groups than to revolutionary leftist ones\". On 18 December, the Palestinian National Council (PNC) denounced Jibril, saying it would expel him over his role in the conflict.\n\nOn 25 December there was reportedly fighting in or around Yarmouk between rebels and the pro-government Jaysh al-Sha'bi (or Popular Committees).\n\nOn 28 December, Iranian Press TV reported further clashes in Yarmouk.\n\nThe UNRWA reported that 12 people were killed and 20 wounded during fighting in Yarmouk on 17 January 2013.\n\nBy January 2014, FSA and Liwa al-Asifa controlled 75% of the refugee camp, while the other 25% was controlled by the Syrian Army and the PFLP-GC. The situation had become desperate. \"The regime forces won't remove the siege on the camp as long as the militants are staying in it\" a pro-Assad Palestinian official, Husam Arafat said. Palestinians in the West Bank have been running a campaign to raise awareness of the siege. \"History will curse us if you allow Yarmouk's people to die of hunger,\" one sign read.\n"}
{"id": "42510443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42510443", "title": "Beautiful: The Carole King Musical", "text": "Beautiful: The Carole King Musical\n\nBeautiful: The Carole King Musical is a jukebox musical with a book by Douglas McGrath that tells the story of the early life and career of Carole King, using songs that she wrote, often together with Gerry Goffin, and other contemporary songs by Barry Mann, Cynthia Weil, Phil Spector and others.\n\nThe original production of \"Beautiful\" received its world premiere at the Curran Theatre, San Francisco, in October 2013, with direction by Marc Bruni and choreography by Josh Prince, and starring Jessie Mueller and Jake Epstein as Carole King and Gerry Goffin. It made its Broadway debut at the Stephen Sondheim Theatre in January 2014. A West End production starring Katie Brayben as Carole began in February 2015. A U.S. tour launched in September 2015.\n\n\"Beautiful: The Carole King Musical\" had a pre-Broadway try-out in San Francisco, California, at the Curran Theatre from September 24, 2013 through October 20, with an official opening October 8. The production was staged by Marc Bruni, with choreography by Josh Prince and musical direction by Jason Howland. Jessie Mueller played Carole King. The musical sold out its entire run at the Curran Theatre.\n\nThe musical opened on Broadway at the Stephen Sondheim Theatre on January 12, 2014, after previews from November 12, 2013. In addition to Mueller as King, the cast features Jake Epstein as Gerry Goffin, Anika Larsen as Cynthia Weil and Jarrod Spector as Barry Mann. King attended the April 3, 2014 performance and appeared on stage with the cast at the curtain call, singing \"You've Got a Friend\" together with them.\n\nA production in London's West End opened on February 25, 2015, following previews beginning February 10, 2015, at the Aldwych Theatre. Prior to the announcement, Baz Bamigboye from the Daily Mail reported that producers are looking for a full British cast for the transfer, meaning that Jessie Mueller would not transfer for the London production. On September 25, 2014, it was announced that British actress Katie Brayben would take the lead role of Carole King, with further casting including Alan Morrissey as Gerry Goffin, Gary Trainor as Don Kirshner, Glynis Barber as Genie Klein, Lorna Want as Cynthia Weil and Ian McIntosh as Barry Mann. Beginning November 30, 2015, Cassidy Janson took the lead role of Carole King and Diane Keen replace Glynis Barber in the role of Genie Klein. it was announced on May 23, 2017 that the London production would close August 5, 2017. \n\nThe musical began a U.S. tour starting in September 2015 in Providence, Rhode Island, at the Providence Performing Arts Center, with engagements across the United States, ending in San Francisco in August 2016. The role of Carole King was played by Abby Mueller (the sister of Jessie Mueller), with Liam Tobin as Gerry Goffin, Ben Fankhauser as Barry Mann and Becky Gulsvig as Cynthia Weil.\n\nA UK tour began September 2017 at the Alhambra Theatre in Bradford and ends at the New Theatre in Oxford in May 2018, starring former Over the Rainbow contestant Bronté Barbé as Carole King.\n\nAn Australian tour began in Sydney on 24 September 2017 at the Lyric Theatre. Esther Hannaford leads the production, playing Carole King. The musical opened in Melbourne at Her Majesty's Theatre on 22 February 2018. In Brisbane, performances began at the Lyric Theatre, QPAC on Friday 13 July 2018 running through to Sunday 2nd September 2018.\n\nA second U.S. National tour began September 4, 2018 at the Ellie Caulkins Opera House in Denver, CO.\n\n\"From the Beautiful: The Carole King Musical cast recording booklet\"\nAt Carnegie Hall in 1971, Carole King sings \"So Far Away\". Then, in Brooklyn 1958, 16-year-old Carole tells her mother, Genie, she is going into Manhattan to try to sell a song to music publisher Donnie Kirshner. In the long tradition of mothers, Genie is opposed to her daughter's wish and in the equally long tradition of teenagers not caring about their mother's opinion, Carole goes anyway. At 1650 Broadway, she hears the \"1650 Broadway Medley\". She then sings her new song \"It Might As Well Rain Until September\". Donnie says he will take it and hopes she has others. At Queens College, Carole meets a handsome young lyricist named Gerry Goffin. They agree to collaborate, musically and romantically, which in both cases turns out to be a fertile arrangement. When they go to Donnie's to play their new song, Carole confesses to Gerry that she is pregnant. Gerry asks her to marry him. It gives her an extra depth of feeling when she sings their new song for Donnie, \"Some Kind of Wonderful\", which The Drifters then record.\n\nThey get an office at 1650. While there, Carole meets a new lyricist Cynthia Weil (\"Happy Days Are Here Again\"), who is looking for a composer to work with. Gerry and Carole sing their new song \"Take Good Care of My Baby\", during which Barry Mann, the composer with the office next door, enters. Barry meets Cynthia and they decide to collaborate. As they begin to work, sparks fly. Donnie tells them he needs a song for the Shirelles. The couples compete for the job. In Donnie's office the next morning, Carole and Gerry present \"Will You Love Me Tomorrow\". Cynthia and Barry perform \"He's Sure the Boy I Love\". Donnie picks Carole and Gerry's song for The Shirelles and it goes to no. 1. And so, on either side of the same wall, a competition is born. The two teams turn out an amazing parade of songs: \"Up on the Roof\", \"On Broadway\", \"The Loco-Motion\" and \"You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'\".\n\nGerry and Carole are at the taping of a TV special where their new song, \"One Fine Day\", is being performed by the dazzling Janelle Woods. During a break, Gerry confesses to Carole that he is restless in their marriage. He wants to sleep with Janelle, and he doesn't want to lie about it. Carole is stunned. As the song begins again, she takes it over and sings it herself.\n\nCarole is in a recording studio doing a demo of \"Chains\". Gerry is off with Janelle but tells her he will meet her later. Nick, a guitarist, asks Carole to come sing at the Bitter End sometime but she declines — she's a songwriter, not a singer. The thing with Gerry is getting her down so she goes and talks to Cynthia who is also having trouble with Barry — they split up. Carole decides to tell Gerry he has to end the affair with Janelle. As she leaves, Barry comes in. He and Cynthia make up and play their new song, \"Walking in the Rain\". Gerry shows up, but he is not making sense. He eventually has a breakdown. At the hospital, he tells Carole he will end the affair with Janelle and that he wants to come home. She suggests they make a new start and move to the suburbs (\"Pleasant Valley Sunday\"). \n\nBarry, Cynthia and Donnie come to see the new house. Barry plays their new song, \"We Gotta Get Out of This Place\". Depressed that he and Carole can't do as well, Gerry leaves in a funk for the city. While he is gone, it comes out that Barry and Cynthia have seen him with another woman, a singer named Marilyn Wald. Carole goes to Marilyn's apartment and Gerry is there. It's the final straw, and she ends their marriage. At the Bitter End, where Barry and Cynthia hear their song \"Uptown\", Carole explains she went to Los Angeles for a vacation and has started writing on her own. Nick, the guitarist from the studio who asked her to sing with his group, is playing there and urges her to sing. She sings her new song, \"It's Too Late\". She decides to move to Los Angeles. At 1650, she says goodbye to Donnie, Barry and Cynthia and plays them a parting present \"You've Got a Friend\".\n\nIn Los Angeles, she records her album, \"Tapestry\". The session goes well until the last song, which she is afraid to sing. It's a song she wrote with Gerry and she is afraid of the feelings it may stir up. Her producer, Lou Adler, persuades her. She sings \"(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman\". The album is a smash. Carole is at Carnegie Hall for her concert, and is met by Gerry, who apologizes for the way he mistreated her in the past and gives her a final prediction - \"you're going all the way\". Carole takes to the piano, and performs for her audience.\n\n\"† Not included on the original Broadway Cast Album.\"\n\nThe musical uses a 12-member orchestra consisting of three keyboards, two guitars, bass, drums, percussion, two reeds, trumpet/flugelhorn, and trombone/bass trombone. In addition the performer playing Carole King plays the piano if it is Katie Brayben (London) whereas Jessie Mueller (Broadway) needed piano lessons so she could mime.\n\nThe Broadway cast album was recorded in February 2014 by Ghostlight Records and was released in digital form on April 1, 2014. It was in stores as of May 13, 2014. (The Broadway cast album includes the song \"You've Got a Friend\", although that song is not listed in the opening night playbill.) The album was also released on a vinyl format.\n\n\nBen Brantley, reviewing for \"The New York Times\", called the musical a \"friendly, formulaic bio-musical\". He wrote that the musical shows the change in King from a modest songwriter to the popular and confident performer of those songs, showing the \"real, conflicted person within the reluctant star.\"\n\nJesse Green, in his review for the \"New York Magazine\", praised the performers but criticized the book, writing that the musical does not have the \"dramatic coherence of book biomusicals\". Similarly, Elyse Sommer, in her review for \"curtainup.com\", praised the performers, especially Mueller, Spector and Larsen, as well as the \"shimmery lighting\" and the costumes. She wrote that while the musical \"doesn't hang its songs on the greatest or most suspenseful story ever told, it has enough bounce and Broadway show glitz to keep you in your seat\".\n\nOn March 22, 2015, it was announced that Sony Pictures would be bringing the musical to the big screen with Douglas McGrath adapting his book into a screenplay and stage producer Paul Blake producing through Tom Hanks and Gary Goetzman's production company, Playtone.\n\nThe producers of the original Broadway production include: Paul Blake, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, Jeffery A. Sine, Richard A. Smith, Mike Bosner, Harriet Newman Leve, Elaine Krauss, Terry Schnuck, Orin Wolf, Patty Baker, Roger Faxon, Larry Magrid, Kit Seidel, Lawrence S. Toppall, Fakston Productions, Mary Soloman, William C. Cohen, John Gore, Barbara Freitag, Loraine Alterman Boyle, Matthew C. Blank, Tim Hogue, Joel Hyatt, Marianne Mills, Michael J. Moritz Jr., StylesFour Production, Corey Brunish, Brisa Trinchero, Jeremiah J. Harris, Sherry Kondor (Executive Producer), Christine Russell (Executive Producer).\n\n"}
{"id": "32285137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32285137", "title": "Brendan Kyle Hatcher", "text": "Brendan Kyle Hatcher\n\nBrendan Kyle Hatcher is a United States diplomat who was called \"the most closely surveilled American in Russia\" by ABC News Investigative Reporter Brian Ross in a September 2009 investigative report. Hatcher gained notoriety in August 2009 after the Russian tabloid \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\", a newspaper which Russian intelligence expert Andrei Soldatov ties to the Federal Security Services (FSB) of the Russian Federation, showed a video of him while accusing him of being an undercover CIA agent in Russia. The media reports were quickly condemned by investigating authorities in the U.S. as fabricated.\n\nAccording to Eli Lake of \"The Washington Times\", Hatcher became one of several American diplomats and journalists to be attacked and falsely accused between 2007 and 2011 after the Obama Administration's \"reset\" with Russia. Hatcher served as Political Officer who worked to promote human rights and freedom of religion in Russia from 2008 to 2010. He was awarded in June 2010 by the State Department for his \"courage and character, commitment to excellence, and support of human rights and religious freedom in spite of exceedingly difficult circumstances and personal hardship.\" As part of his job, Hatcher would meet with opposition figures, government officials, NGOs, journalists, and religious leaders to promote human rights and religious equality. Hatcher was fully exonerated by the media and State Department, and he was lauded by his colleagues for heroism.\n\nOn August 6, 2009, Russian media sources with links to the FSB (the successor organization to the KGB of the Soviet Union) released real video images and pictures of Hatcher that had been spliced with images of another person. The doctored images emerged just one month after the first presidential summit between U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian President Dmitry Medvedev which prominently featured discussions on human rights and corruption. The Ambassador of the Embassy of the United States in Moscow, John Beyrle, issued a formal protest to the Russian government, stating that the Russian media reports about Hatcher were completely untrue and had no place in the development of better relations between the two superpowers. Despite Beyrle's protest, neither Hatcher nor the U.S government received an apology from Russian officials for the \"smear campaign.\"\n\nOn September 23, 2009, ABC News ran an investigative piece on \"Nightline\" concerning the \"smear campaign\" against Hatcher, including the interview with Ambassador Beyrle. During the interview, Beyrle stated that Hatcher was 100% innocent of any wrongdoing. Beyrle had previously awarded Hatcher in May 2009 for his success in promoting freedom of religion and human rights in Russia, and commented that an element in Russia had attacked Hatcher to discredit him and his work as well as prevent the two countries from developing closer ties. Soldatov further noted that only Russian intelligence agents would be interested in smearing Hatcher to force his dismissal from Russia.\n\nIn the course of the segment, retired FBI Counterintelligence Officer and Russian intelligence services expert David Majors pointed out that the video segments had been doctored to smear Hatcher and to reduce his effectiveness at his job. Major pointed out obvious flaws in the video sequence and assessed that the false media reports were a \"dirty trick,\" constituting a failed attempt to frame Hatcher and ruin his reputation as a change agent in the human rights activist community.\n\nOn September 24, 2009, State Department spokesperson Ian Kelly called Hatcher \"one of our best\" diplomats, and confirmed that Hatcher had been smeared with false media reports to discredit his work promoting human rights and religious freedom. Kelly noted that the State Department deplored this type of activity by the Russians at a time when diplomats like Hatcher were working to improve bilateral relations.\n\nIn the February 19, 2017, episode of HBO series Last Week Tonight, host John Oliver called the FSB fake tape \"ridiculous\" as part of his larger commentary on the lengths to which the Kremlin will go to discredit its opponents.\n\nPrior to his service in the diplomatic corps, Hatcher served as an intelligence analyst with the Department of the Treasury, Office of Intelligence and Analysis, where he focused on fighting the sources of terrorism financing. In the summer of 2004, Hatcher conducted research for the Center for East Asian Studies in Vladivostok, Russia, where he focused on Russian attitudes towards Chinese migrants. He later presented and published a paper detailing his findings, which included a scathing commentary about Russian racism and xenophobia. Prior to his research in Russia, Hatcher worked in the private sector as a business manager, and he served in the Peace Corps as a volunteer in Kazakhstan (part of the former Soviet Union) where he taught economics at the Taraz Polytechnical College in Taraz, Kazakhstan. Former Soviet officials have long been skeptical of the Peace Corps as a cover for US spies, evidenced by Russia’s decision to kick out the Peace Corps in 2002.\n\nHatcher hails from Nashville, Tennessee and attended Montgomery Bell Academy, famous as the source for the blockbuster film Dead Poets Society. In 1997, Hatcher graduated from the University of Georgia, which honored him as one of its top 40 under 40 graduates in 2013. In 2005, Hatcher received his masters from the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey (MIIS), where he delivered the student commencement address alongside Russian scientist Roald Sagdeev and philanthropist Susan Eisenhower. The U.S. Government honored him as a Presidential Management Fellow in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "31243296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31243296", "title": "Bullying in the legal profession", "text": "Bullying in the legal profession\n\nBullying in the legal profession is believed to be more common than in some other professions. It is believed that its adversarial, hierarchical tradition contributes towards this. Women, trainees and solicitors who have been qualified for five years or less are more impacted, as are ethnic minority lawyers and lesbian, gay and bisexual lawyers.\n\nHalf of women lawyers and one in three men who took part in a study by the Law Council of Australia (LCA) reported they had been bullied or intimidated in the workplace. The Law Council of Australia has found that women face significant levels of discrimination, with one of the study's key figures telling Lawyers Weekly the profession is a \"men's only club\".\n\nAccording to former High Court judge Michael Kirby, the rudeness of judges trickles down to senior lawyers who then vent their frustrations on more junior staff, thus creating a cycle of bullying and stress that is rife within the legal profession.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "620147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620147", "title": "Chatham House Rule", "text": "Chatham House Rule\n\nThe Chatham House Rule is a system for holding debates and discussion panels on controversial issues, named after the headquarters of the UK Royal Institute of International Affairs, based in Chatham House, London, where the rule originated in June 1927.\n\nAt a meeting held under the Chatham House Rule, anyone who comes to the meeting is free to use information from the discussion, but is not allowed to reveal who made any comment. It is designed to increase openness of discussion.\n\nThe rule was created in 1927 and refined in 1992. Since its most recent refinement in 2002, the rule states:\n\nThe rule is designed to increase openness of discussion of public policy and current affairs, as it allows people to express and discuss controversial opinions and arguments without suffering the risk of stalling their career or even dismissal from their job, and with a clear separation from the opinion and the view of their employer. \n\nThe rule allows people to speak as individuals and to express views that may not be those of their organisations, and therefore encourages free discussion. Speakers are free to voice their own opinions, and to contest the opinions of other participants, without concern for their personal reputation or their official duties and affiliations. The Chatham House Rule resolves a boundary problem faced by many communities of practice, in that it permits acknowledgement of the community or conversation, while protecting the freedom of interaction that is necessary for the community to carry out its conversations. It is designed to reduce the risk of what has come to be described as groupthink, where unpopular views are excluded from discussion, reducing the range of opinions an organisation can discuss.\n\nThe aim of the rule is to guarantee anonymity to those speaking within its walls so that better international relations may be achieved. The rule is now used internationally as an aid to free discussion. The original rule of 1927 was refined in October 1992 and again in 2002. Chatham House has translated the rule into Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Portuguese, Spanish and Russian.\n\nThe rule is a contrast (or a compromise) between private meetings, where revealing what was said in the meeting is forbidden, and \"on the record\" events where the discussion is completely public and attributed.\n\nGenerally, the Chatham House Rule is imposed as a condition of being allowed to attend a meeting or event: all participants are understood to have agreed that it would be conducive to free discussion that they should be subject to the rule for the relevant part of the meeting. The success of the rule may depend upon it being considered morally binding, particularly in circumstances where a failure to comply with the rule may not result in sanction.\n\nIn May 2015, the release of a rule-bound speech by European Central Bank board member Benoît Cœuré triggered broader attention to the bank's use of the system. The Cœuré speech influenced currency, stock and bond markets. In the aftermath, other recent ECB invocations of the rule regarding a question-and-answer session and opening remarks for Cœuré, respectively, by ECB Vice President Vitor Constancio and another member of the board, Peter Praet, also gained attention. An ECB governing council member Boštjan Jazbec of Slovenia also had, the same month, held a question-and-answer session under the rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28033069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28033069", "title": "Chaugan Stadium", "text": "Chaugan Stadium\n\nChaugan Stadium is a stadium in Jaipur city in Rajasthan state in India. Elephant polo matches are played here. The stadium is venue of Teej festivities and Elephant Festival. The stadium lies between Gangauri Bazaar and the City Palace not far away from Govind Dev Ji Temple.\n\n"}
{"id": "1838919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1838919", "title": "Collapse of Hotel New World", "text": "Collapse of Hotel New World\n\nThe collapse of the Hotel New World (; ; ) occurred on 15 March 1986, and was Singapore's deadliest civil disaster since the Spyros disaster on 12 October 1978. The six-storey building situated at the junction of Serangoon Road and Owen Road rapidly collapsed, trapping 50 people beneath the rubble. Seventeen people were rescued, whereas 33 people were killed.\n\nFrequently referred to as Hotel New World, the building in question was actually the Lian Yak Building (), which was completed in 1971 and consisted of six stories and a basement garage. The Hotel New World, previously known as the New Serangoon Hotel until 1984, was the main tenant occupying the top three floors, and a branch of the Industrial & Commercial Bank (which merged with United Overseas Bank in 1987) took up the ground level. A nightclub, Universal Neptune Nite-Club and Restaurant, was situated on the second level of the building at the time of the collapse. The building had previously experienced a poisonous gas leak (caused by carbon monoxide) in some of the hotel rooms, first hitting the headlines on 30 August 1975, the day after the poisonous gas leak was reported.\n\nOn 15 March 1986, the building rapidly disintegrated in less than a minute at about , leaving little time for anyone within it to make their escape. Witnesses reported hearing an explosion prior to the collapse, but the police ruled out the possibility of a bomb attack. A gas explosion was thought to be a possible cause.\n\nThe collapse was met with shock by many, including the then Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew who was quoted as saying that \"the collapse of such a building is unprecedented.\"\n\nImmediately after the collapse, as many as 300 were feared trapped underneath the debris. Estimates dropped to 100 trapped or missing a day later, and then to 60, including 26 hotel staff and 16 bank staff unaccounted for. The figure was finally put at 33 when the official death toll was announced on 22 March 1986 after the end of the rescue effort. Amongst those killed, 23 were Singaporeans, and the other ten foreigners.\n\nAfter the collapse, many passers-by began to try pulling out survivors. They were soon joined by the Singapore Fire Service (SFS), the Police Task Force of the Singapore Police Force (SPF) and the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF). A nearby business, Eagle Piano Company, became a centre for the rescue operation.\n\nAs there were survivors buried in the rubble, the rescue was a delicate operation. Debris was carefully removed as power saws and drills cut through the rubble.\n\nSound detectors were used to locate survivors beneath the slabs by picking up faint moans and cries. In the first 12 hours, nine people were rescued. At one time, Lieutenant-Colonel Lim Meng Kin (SAF Chief Medical Officer), along with several other SAF medical officers and two doctors from the Health Ministry, took turns to crawl through narrow spaces inside the rubble in an effort to provide assistance to trapped survivors, giving glucose and saline drips to them.\n\nTunnelling experts from Britain, Ireland and Japan who were involved in nearby construction for the (Singapore) Mass Rapid Transit, including Thomas \"Tommy\" Gallagher, Thomas Mulleary, Patrick \"PJ\" Gallagher, Michael Prendergast, Michael \"Mickey\" Scott, and Tan Jin Thong, offered to assist. They became concerned that the use of heavy machinery would collapse the rubble onto those trapped. Their voluntary efforts, digging 4 tunnels under the rubble, resulted in the rescue of another eight survivors. The tunnelling experts were later honoured by the Singapore government for their efforts. Thomas Mulleary was also nominated for an O.B.E for his rescue work but refused the prestigious honour when the rest of the rescue squad was not included.\n\nThe last survivor, 30-year-old Chua Kim Choo, was rescued on 18 March 1986, having survived after hiding beneath a table.\n\nFollowing the six-day rescue operation in 21 March, 17 people were rescued, but 33 people lost their lives.\n\nMany potential causes of the accident were investigated. Surviving sections of concrete were tested to ensure they were built to proper construction standards and it was found that they were. The construction work of the underground railway – built by tunnellers who had assisted in the rescue – was investigated, even though the excavations were more than 100 yards from the collapsed building. It was found they had no effect on the building's stability.\n\nAlso investigated were the various additions made to the building after its initial construction. Air conditioning systems had been constructed on the roof of the building, the bank had added a large safe, and ceramic tiles had been fixed to the building's exterior, all adding considerably to the building's weight. It was found that the weight of these additions was inconsequential.\n\nHowever, this line of investigation into weight led to the discovery that the original structural engineer had made a serious error in calculating the building's structural load. The structural engineer had calculated the building's live load (the weight of the building's potential inhabitants, furniture, fixtures, and fittings) but the building's dead load (the weight of the building itself) was completely omitted from the calculation. This meant that the building as constructed could not support its own weight. Collapsing was only a matter of time. After three different supporting columns failed in the days before the disaster, the other columns—which took on the added weight no longer supported by the failed columns—could not support the building.\n\nAccording to Channel News Asia, Lian Yak Building was designed by an unqualified draftsman instead of a professional structural engineer. An investigator found that he had over-estimated the dead weight which the columns and walls could support. The draftsman claimed that the building owner Ng Khong Lim, who eventually died in the collapse incident, had appointed him to design Lian Yak Building but Ng directed that building work. The investigator also found that Ng requested to use inferior materials to build Lian Yak Building in order to reduce the cost.\n\nOn 27 April 1986, the Government of Singapore honoured five individuals for their assistance in rescue efforts, including three from Ireland, one from Britain, and a local. A dinner was also hosted by the Singapore government on 29 April 1986 for SMRT Corporation staff involved in the rescue effort, with the then Minister of Communications and Information, Yeo Ning Hong, as the Guest-of-Honour.\n\nFollowing this disaster, buildings built in the 1970s were checked for structural faults, and some of them were declared structurally unsound and had to be evacuated, including the main block of Hwa Chong Junior College and Catholic High School campus at Queen Street. The government also introduced tighter regulations on building construction; since 1989, all structural designs are required to be counter-checked by Accredited Checkers. The Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) underwent a significant upgrade, in terms of training and equipment, to improve its readiness in performing complex rescue operations.\n\nFive years after the collapse, construction work commenced on the site for a new seven-storey hotel on 28 March 1991. The Fortuna Hotel opened with 85 rooms in 1994.\n\nIn July 1986, singer-songwriter Kelvin Tan contributed to \"BigO\" magazine's \"Nothing on the Radio\" cassette the song \"Seen the End\", after spending two nights at the former Hotel New World site.\n\nIn 1990, the disaster was re-enacted in the Chinese-language television series \"Finishing Line\" (出人头地), which was aired on SBC 8 (now MediaCorp Channel 8).\n\nOn 25 September 2003, the disaster was featured in the first episode of the second season of the television series \"True Courage\", which was broadcast on MediaCorp TV Channel 5 (now MediaCorp Channel 5). A Chinese-language version of the series, titled \"True Courage\" (逆境勇者), was also on aired on MediaCorp TV Channel 8 (now MediaCorp Channel 8).\n\nOn 27 September 2005, \"Seconds From Disaster\" portrayed the disaster in the episode \"Hotel Collapse Singapore\". Instead of the actual site, the program used an image of the area around 88 Syed Alwi Road (at the corner of Kampon Kapor Road) as the basis for a computer-generated reconstruction of the building and its collapse. The episode was retelecast in Singapore on 16 September 2007 via StarHub TV.\n\nIn February 2015, \"Days of Disasters\" also portrayed the disaster in the episode \"Hotel New World Collapse\". It was also featured in the drama \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "711813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711813", "title": "Convergence (goth festival)", "text": "Convergence (goth festival)\n\nConvergence (sometimes referenced as C*) is the annual net.goth party run by and for members of the alt.gothic and alt.gothic.fashion newsgroup, and other related Usenet newsgroups. Started in 1995, it is a chance for net.goths and others who normally only meet on the Internet to meet. Events at Convergence typically included live bands and club nights, bazaars, fashion, art shows, panels, and tours of goth-themed locales in the host city.\n\nConvergence is a \"floating\" event. The location for each year voted on by the net.goth community in response to proposals by volunteer committees. So far all have taken place in North America.\n\nPast Convergences have been held in:\n\nConvergence was initially proposed and planned by two long-time members of the alt.gothic newsgroup hierarchy, at the time residents of Chicago, as an international gathering of members of the newsgroups and related net.goth groups. It was conceived as an opportunity for those who had previously known each other primarily or exclusively through Internet forums, to meet and get to know each other in person.\n\nThere has been considerable debate regarding the extent to which the event should reach out to other on-line gothic communities, as well as members of local non-Internet-based gothic scenes. Some planning committees have made efforts to expand the scope of the event; while others have made similar efforts to restrict advertising to predominantly the founding net.goth communities.\n\nAttendance ranged over the years usually between 300-800, but attendance spiked at Convergence 13 to approximately 1,500.\n\nThere is no formal Convergence organization per se. Since shortly after its inception, the bidding and voting process has been managed by a more-or-less consistent group of volunteers, known informally as the C*b*l, composed of several of the longest-term participants in the alt.gothic newsgroups. The C*b*l is widely recognized as having made some of the most substantial contributions to maintaining Convergence, and are among its most frequent attendees. The group also maintains the official Convergence website, and provides organizational and informational assistance to host committees.\n\nEach Convergence is organized and run by an ad hoc volunteer committee. Committees typically consist of residents of the host city, a large percentage of whom are expected to be active participants on alt.gothic or related net.goth groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21510862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21510862", "title": "Czerwonogród", "text": "Czerwonogród\n\nChervonohorod or Chervone (until 1970 , formerly , ), meaning \"Red Town\" (from the color of the earth), is a former town in Zalischyky Raion, Ternopil Oblast of Ukraine, that was part of the municipal district of Nyrkiv (Ни́рків). \n\nIt was chartered in 1434 and was the seat of a powiat in the Podole Voivodeship. During the 19th century Chervonohorod declined in importance, and its population was reduced to 500 by the time of the September Campaign (1939).\n\nThe local castle was built in the early 17th century as a seat of the Daniłowicz magnate family. Prince Poniński acquired the ruined castle from the Habsburgs in 1778 and had it demolished. A new princely residence was erected to replace it. The prince and his family were interred in the family vault, which boasted a relief commissioned from Bertel Thorvaldsen. The Soviets dismantled the Poniński-Lubomirski palace (apart from the two towers), removing Czerwonogród from the map of the Ukrainian SSR.\n"}
{"id": "46947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46947", "title": "Elizabethan era", "text": "Elizabethan era\n\nThe Elizabethan era is the epoch in the Tudor period of the history of England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I (1558–1603). Historians often depict it as the golden age in English history. The symbol of Britannia (a female personification of Great Britain) was first used in 1572, and often thereafter, to mark the Elizabethan age as a renaissance that inspired national pride through classical ideals, international expansion, and naval triumph over the Spanish – at the time, a rival kingdom much hated by the people of the land. In terms of the entire century, the historian John Guy (1988) argues that \"England was economically healthier, more expansive, and more optimistic under the Tudors\" than at any time in a thousand years.\n\nThis \"golden age\" represented the apogee of the English Renaissance and saw the flowering of poetry, music and literature. The era is most famous for theatre, as William Shakespeare and many others composed plays that broke free of England's past style of theatre. It was an age of exploration and expansion abroad, while back at home, the Protestant Reformation became more acceptable to the people, most certainly after the Spanish Armada was repulsed. It was also the end of the period when England was a separate realm before its royal union with Scotland.\n\nThe Elizabethan Age contrasts sharply with the previous and following reigns. It was a brief period of internal peace between the English Reformation and the religious battles between Protestants and Catholics and then the political battles between parliament and the monarchy that engulfed the remainder of the seventeenth century. The Protestant/Catholic divide was settled, for a time, by the Elizabethan Religious Settlement, and parliament was not yet strong enough to challenge royal absolutism.\n\nEngland was also well-off compared to the other nations of Europe. The Italian Renaissance had come to an end under the weight of Spanish domination of the peninsula. France was embroiled in its own religious battles that were (temporarily) settled in 1598 by a policy of tolerating Protestantism with the Edict of Nantes. In part because of this, but also because the English had been expelled from their last outposts on the continent by Spain's tercios, the centuries-long conflict between France and England was largely suspended for most of Elizabeth's reign.\n\nThe one great rival was Spain, with whom England clashed both in Europe and the Americas in skirmishes that exploded into the Anglo-Spanish War of 1585–1604. An attempt by Philip II of Spain to invade England with the Spanish Armada in 1588 was famously defeated, but the tide of war turned against England with an unsuccessful expedition to Portugal and the Azores, the Drake-Norris Expedition of 1589. Thereafter, Spain provided some support for Irish Catholics in a debilitating rebellion against English rule, and Spanish naval and land forces inflicted a series of reversals against English offensives. This drained both the English Exchequer and economy that had been so carefully restored under Elizabeth's prudent guidance. English commercial and territorial expansion would be limited until the signing of the Treaty of London the year following Elizabeth's death.\n\nEngland during this period had a centralised, well-organised, and effective government, largely a result of the reforms of Henry VII and Henry VIII, as well as Elizabeth's harsh punishments for any dissenters. Economically, the country began to benefit greatly from the new era of trans-Atlantic trade and persistent theft of Spanish treasure.\n\nThe Victorian era and the early 20th century idealised the Elizabethan era. The \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" maintains that \"[T]he long reign of Elizabeth I, 1558–1603, was England's Golden Age... 'Merry England', in love with life, expressed itself in music and literature, in architecture and in adventurous seafaring\". This idealising tendency was shared by Britain and an Anglophilic America. In popular culture, the image of those adventurous Elizabethan seafarers was embodied in the films of Errol Flynn.\n\nIn response and reaction to this hyperbole, modern historians and biographers have tended to take a more dispassionate view of the Tudor period.\n\nElizabethan England was not particularly successful in a military sense during the period, but it avoided major defeats and built up a powerful navy. On balance, it can be said that Elizabeth provided the country with a long period of general if not total peace and generally increased prosperity due in large part to stealing from Spanish treasure ships, raiding settlements with low defenses, and selling African slaves. Having inherited a virtually bankrupt state from previous reigns, her frugal policies restored fiscal responsibility. Her fiscal restraint cleared the regime of debt by 1574, and ten years later the Crown enjoyed a surplus of £300,000. Economically, Sir Thomas Gresham's founding of the Royal Exchange (1565), the first stock exchange in England and one of the earliest in Europe, proved to be a development of the first importance, for the economic development of England and soon for the world as a whole. With taxes lower than other European countries of the period, the economy expanded; though the wealth was distributed with wild unevenness, there was clearly more wealth to go around at the end of Elizabeth's reign than at the beginning. This general peace and prosperity allowed the attractive developments that \"Golden Age\" advocates have stressed.\n\nThe Elizabethan Age was also an age of plots and conspiracies, frequently political in nature, and often involving the highest levels of Elizabethan society. High officials in Madrid, Paris and Rome sought to kill Elizabeth, a Protestant, and replace her with Mary, Queen of Scots, a Catholic. That would be a prelude to the religious recovery of England for Catholicism. In 1570, the Ridolfi plot was thwarted. In 1584, the Throckmorton Plot was discovered, after Francis Throckmorton confessed his involvement in a plot to overthrow the Queen and restore the Catholic Church in England. Another major conspiracy was the Babington Plot — the event which most directly led to Mary's execution, the discovery of which involved a double agent, Gilbert Gifford, acting under the direction of Francis Walsingham, the Queen's highly effective spy master.\n\nThe Essex Rebellion of 1601 has a dramatic element, as just before the uprising, supporters of the Earl of Essex, among them Charles and Joscelyn Percy (younger brothers of the Earl of Northumberland), paid for a performance of Richard II at the Globe Theatre, apparently with the goal of stirring public ill will towards the monarchy. It was reported at the trial of Essex by Chamberlain's Men actor Augustine Phillips, that the conspirators paid the company forty shillings \"above the ordinary\" (i. e., above their usual rate) to stage the play, which the players felt was too old and \"out of use\" to attract a large audience.\n\nIn the Bye Plot of 1603, two Catholic priests planned to kidnap King James and hold him in the Tower of London until he agreed to be more tolerant towards Catholics. Most dramatic was the 1605 Gunpowder Plot to blow up the House of Lords during the State Opening of Parliament. It was discovered in time with eight conspirators executed, including Guy Fawkes, who became the iconic evil traitor in English lore.\n\nWhile Henry VIII had launched the Royal Navy, Edward and Mary had ignored it and it was little more than a system of coastal defense. Elizabeth made naval strength a high priority. She risked war with Spain by supporting the \"Sea Dogs\", such as John Hawkins and Francis Drake, who preyed on the Spanish merchant ships carrying gold and silver from the New World. The Navy yards were leaders in technical innovation, and the captains devised new tactics. Parker (1996) argues that the full-rigged ship was one of the greatest technological advances of the century and permanently transformed naval warfare. In 1573 English shipwrights introduced designs, first demonstrated in the \"Dreadnaught\", that allowed the ships to sail faster and maneuver better and permitted heavier guns. Whereas before warships had tried to grapple with each other so that soldiers could board the enemy ship, now they stood off and fired broadsides that would sink the enemy vessel. When Spain finally decided to invade and conquer England it was a fiasco. Superior English ships and seamanship foiled the invasion and led to the destruction of the Spanish Armada in 1588, marking the high point of Elizabeth's reign. Technically, the Armada failed because Spain's over-complex strategy required coordination between the invasion fleet and the Spanish army on shore. Moreover, the poor design of the Spanish cannons meant they were much slower in reloading in a close-range battle. Spain and France still had stronger fleets, but England was catching up.\n\nParker has speculated on the dire consequences if the Spanish had landed their invasion army in 1588. He argues that the Spanish army was larger, more experienced, better-equipped, more confident, and had better financing. The English defenses, on the other hand, were thin and outdated; England had too few soldiers and they were at best only partially trained. Spain had chosen England's weakest link and probably could have captured London in a week. Parker adds that a Catholic uprising in the north and in Ireland could have brought total defeat.\n\nThe discoveries of Christopher Columbus electrified all of western Europe, especially maritime powers like England. King Henry VII commissioned John Cabot to lead a voyage to find a northern route to the Spice Islands of Asia; this began the search for the North West Passage. Cabot sailed in 1497 and reached Newfoundland. He led another voyage to the Americas the following year, but nothing was heard of him or his ships again.\n\nIn 1562 Elizabeth sent privateers Hawkins and Drake to seize booty from Spanish and Portuguese ships off the coast of West Africa. When the Anglo-Spanish Wars intensified after 1585, Elizabeth approved further raids against Spanish ports in the Americas and against shipping returning to Europe with treasure. Meanwhile, the influential writers Richard Hakluyt and John Dee were beginning to press for the establishment of England's own overseas empire. Spain was well established in the Americas, while Portugal, in union with Spain from 1580, had an ambitious global empire in Africa, Asia and South America. France was exploring North America. England was stimulated to create its own colonies, with an emphasis on the West Indies rather than in North America.\n\nMartin Frobisher landed at Frobisher Bay on Baffin Island in August 1576; He returned in 1577, claiming it in Queen Elizabeth's name, and in a third voyage tried but failed to found a settlement in Frobisher Bay.\n\nFrom 1577 to 1580, Sir Francis Drake circumnavigated the globe. Combined with his daring raids against the Spanish and his great victory over them at Cadiz in 1587, he became a famous hero—his exploits are still celebrated—but England did not follow up on his claims. In 1583, Humphrey Gilbert sailed to Newfoundland, taking possession of the harbour of St John's together with all land within two hundred leagues to the north and south of it.\n\nIn 1584, the queen granted Sir Walter Raleigh a charter for the colonisation of Virginia; it was named in her honour. Raleigh and Elizabeth sought both immediate riches and a base for privateers to raid the Spanish treasure fleets. Raleigh sent others to found the Roanoke Colony; it remains a mystery why the settlers all disappeared. In 1600, the queen chartered the East India Company. It established trading posts, which in later centuries evolved into British India, on the coasts of what is now India and Bangladesh. Larger scale colonisation began shortly after Elizabeth's death.\n\nEngland in this era had some positive aspects that set it apart from contemporaneous continental European societies. Torture was rare, since the English legal system reserved torture only for capital crimes like treason—though forms of corporal punishment, some of them extreme, were practised. The persecution of witches began in 1563, and hundreds were executed, although there was nothing like the frenzy on the Continent. Mary had tried her hand at an aggressive anti-Protestant Inquisition and was hated for it; it was not to be repeated.\n\nElizabeth managed to moderate and quell the intense religious passions of the time. This was in significant contrast to previous and succeeding eras of marked religious violence.\n\nElizabeth said \"I have no desire to make windows into mens' souls\". Her desire to moderate the religious persecutions of previous Tudor reigns — the persecution of Catholics under Edward VI, and of Protestants under Mary I — appears to have had a moderating effect on English society. Elizabeth, Protestant, but undogmatic one, Christopher Haigh, English Reformations, Religion, Politics and Society under the Tudors, 1993 p. 237 , reinstated the 1552 Book of Common Prayer with modifications which made clear that the Church of England believed in the (spiritual) Real Presence of Christ in the Holy Communion but without a definition how in favor of leaving this a mystery, and she had the Black Rubric removed from the Articles of Faith: this had allowed kneeling to receive communion without implying that by doing so it meant the real and essential presence of Christ in the bread and wine: she believed it so. She was not able to get an unmarried clergy or the Protestant Holy Communion celebrated to look like a Mass, Haigh, op. cit. p. 241. The Apostolic Succession was maintained, the institution of the church continued without a break (with 98% of the clergy remaining at their posts) and the attempt to ban music in church was defeated. The Injunctions of 1571 forbade any doctrines that did not conform to the teaching of the Church Fathers and the Catholic Bishops. The Queen's hostility to strict Calvinistic doctrines blocked the Radicals. Almost no original theological thought came out of the English Reformation: instead the Church relied on the Catholic Consensus of the first Four Ecumenical Councils. The preservation of many Catholic doctrines and practices was the cuckoos nest that eventually resulted in the formation of the Via Media during the 17th century, Diarmaid MacCullough, The Later Reformation in England, 1547-1603, 2001, pp. 24-29 , 'The cuckoo in the nest,' p. 64, 78-86; English Reformations, Religion, Politics and Society under the Tudors, 1993, pp. 240-242, 29-295. She spent the rest of her reign ferociously fending of radical reformers and Roman Catholics who wanted to modify the Settlement of Church affairs: The Church of England was Protestant, \"with its peculiar arrested development in Protestant terms, and the ghost which it harboured of an older world of Catholic traditions and devotional practice,\" MacCullough, p. 85. \n\nFor a number of years refrained from persecuting Catholics because she was against Catholicism, not her Catholic subjects if they made no trouble. In 1570, Pope Pius V declared Elizabeth a heretic who was not the legitimate queen and that her subjects no longer owed her obedience. The pope sent Jesuits and seminarians to secretly evangelize and support Catholics. After several plots to overthrow her, Catholic clergy were mostly considered to be traitors, and were pursued aggressively in England. Often priests were tortured or executed after capture unless they cooperated with the English authorities. People who publicly supported Catholicism were excluded from the professions; sometimes fined or imprisoned.\n\nLacking a dominant genius or a formal structure for research (the following century had both Sir Isaac Newton and the Royal Society), the Elizabethan era nonetheless saw significant scientific progress. The astronomers Thomas Digges and Thomas Harriot made important contributions; William Gilbert published his seminal study of magnetism, \"De Magnete,\" in 1600. Substantial advancements were made in the fields of cartography and surveying. The eccentric but influential John Dee also merits mention.\n\nMuch of this scientific and technological progress related to the practical skill of navigation. English achievements in exploration were noteworthy in the Elizabethan era. Sir Francis Drake circumnavigated the globe between 1577 and 1581, and Martin Frobisher explored the Arctic. The first attempt at English settlement of the eastern seaboard of North America occurred in this era—the abortive colony at Roanoke Island in 1587.\n\nWhile Elizabethan England is not thought of as an age of technological innovation, some progress did occur. In 1564 Guilliam Boonen came from the Netherlands to be Queen Elizabeth's first coach-builder —thus introducing the new European invention of the spring-suspension coach to England, as a replacement for the litters and carts of an earlier transportation mode. Coaches quickly became as fashionable as sports cars in a later century; social critics, especially Puritan commentators, noted the \"diverse great ladies\" who rode \"up and down the countryside\" in their new coaches.\nHistorians since the 1960s have explored many facets of the social history, covering every class of the population.\nAlthough home to only a small part of the population the Tudor municipalities were overcrowded and unhygienic. Most towns were unpaved with poor public sanitation. There were no sewers or drains, and rubbish was simply abandoned in the street. Animals such as rats thrived in these conditions. In larger towns and cities, such as London, common diseases arising from lack of sanitation included smallpox, measles, malaria, typhus, diphtheria, Scarlet fever, and chickenpox.\n\nOutbreaks of the Black Death pandemic occurred in 1498, 1535, 1543, 1563, 1589 and 1603. The reason for the speedy spread of the disease was the increase of rats infected by fleas carrying the disease.\n\nChild mortality was low in comparison with earlier and later periods, at about 150 or fewer deaths per 1000 babies. By age 15 a person could expect 40–50 more years of life.\n\nThe great majority were tenant farmers who lived in small villages. Their homes were, as in earlier centuries, thatched huts with one or two rooms, although later on during this period, roofs were also tiled. Furniture was basic, with stools being commonplace rather than chairs. The walls of Tudor houses were often made from timber and wattle and daub, or brick; stone and tiles were more common in the wealthier homes. The daub was usually then painted with limewash, making it white, and the wood was painted with black tar to prevent rotting, but not in Tudor times; the Victorians did this afterwards. The bricks were handmade and thinner than modern bricks. The wooden beams were cut by hand, which makes telling the difference between Tudor houses and Tudor-style houses easy, as the original beams are not straight. The upper floors of Tudor houses were often larger than the ground floors, which would create an overhang (or jetty). This would create more floor-surface above while also keeping maximum street width. During the Tudor period, the use of glass when building houses was first used, and became widespread. It was very expensive and difficult to make, so the panes were made small and held together with a lead lattice, in casement windows. People who could not afford glass often used polished horn, cloth or paper. Tudor chimneys were tall, thin, and often decorated with symmetrical patterns of molded or cut brick. Early Tudor houses, and the homes of poorer people, did not have chimneys. The smoke in these cases would be let out through a simple hole in the roof.\n\nMansions had many chimneys for the many fireplaces required to keep the vast rooms warm. These fires were also the only way of cooking food. Wealthy Tudor homes needed many rooms, where a large number of guests and servants could be accommodated, fed and entertained. Wealth was demonstrated by the extensive use of glass. Windows became the main feature of Tudor mansions, and were often a fashion statement. Mansions were often designed to a symmetrical plan; \"E\" and \"H\" shapes were popular.\n\nAbout one-third of the population lived in poverty, with the wealthy expected to give alms to assist the impotent poor. Tudor law was harsh on the able-bodied poor, i.e., those unable to find work. Those who left their parishes in order to locate work were termed vagabonds and could be subjected to punishments, including whipping and putting at the stocks.\n\nThe idea of the workhouse for the able-bodied poor was first suggested in 1576.\n\nThere was an unprecedented expansion of education in the Tudor period. Until then, few children went to school. Those that did go were mainly the sons of wealthy or ambitious fathers who could afford to pay the attendance fee. Boys were allowed to go to school and began at the age of 4, they then moved to grammar school when they were 7 years old. Girls were either kept at home by their parents to help with housework or sent out to work to bring money in for the family. They were not sent to school. Boys were educated for work and the girls for marriage and running a household so when they married they could look after the house and children. Wealthy families hired a tutor to teach the boys at home. Many Tudor towns and villages had a parish school where the local vicar taught boys to read and write. Brothers could teach their sisters these skills. At school, pupils were taught English, Latin, Greek, catechism and arithmetic. The pupils practised writing in ink by copying the alphabet and the Lord's Prayer. There were few books, so pupils read from hornbooks instead. These wooden boards had the alphabet, prayers or other writings pinned to them and were covered with a thin layer of transparent cow's horn. There were two types of school in Tudor times: petty school was where young boys were taught to read and write; grammar school was where abler boys were taught English and Latin. It was usual for students to attend six days a week. The school day started at 7:00 am in winter and 6:00 am in summer and finished about 5:00 pm. Petty schools had shorter hours, mostly to allow poorer boys the opportunity to work as well. Schools were harsh and teachers were very strict, often beating pupils who misbehaved.\n\nEducation would begin at home, where children were taught the basic etiquette of proper manners and respecting others. It was necessary for boys to attend grammar school, but girls were rarely allowed in any place of education other than petty schools, and then only with a restricted curriculum. Petty schools were for all children aged from 5 to 7 years of age. Only the most wealthy people allowed their daughters to be taught, and only at home. During this time, endowed schooling became available. This meant that even boys of very poor families were able to attend school if they were not needed to work at home, but only in a few localities were funds available to provide support as well as the necessary education scholarship. \n\nBoys from wealthy families were taught at home by a private tutor. When Henry VIII shut the monasteries he closed their schools. He refounded many former monastic schools—they are known as \"King's schools\" and are found all over England. During the reign of Edward VI many free grammar schools were set up to take in non-fee paying students. There were two universities in Tudor England: Oxford and Cambridge. Some boys went to university at the age of about 14.\n\nEngland's food supply was plentiful throughout most of the reign; there were no famines. Bad harvests caused distress, but they were usually localized. The most widespread came in 1555–57 and 1596–98. In the towns the price of staples was fixed by law; in hard times the size of the loaf of bread sold by the baker was smaller.\n\nThe poor consumed a diet largely of bread, cheese, milk, and beer, with small portions of meat, fish and vegetables, and occasionally some fruit. Potatoes were just arriving at the end of the period, and became increasingly important. The typical poor farmer sold his best products on the market, keeping the cheap food for the family. Stale bread could be used to make bread puddings, and bread crumbs served to thicken soups, stews, and sauces. At a somewhat higher social level families ate an enormous variety of meats, especially beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and pork, as well as chickens, and ducks. The holiday goose was a special treat. Many rural folk and some townspeople tended a small garden which produced vegetables such as asparagus, cucumbers, spinach, lettuce, beans, cabbage, carrots, leeks, and peas, as well as medicinal and flavoring herbs. Some grew their own apricots, grapes, berries, apples, pears, plums, currants, and cherries. Families without a garden could trade with their neighbors to obtain vegetables and fruits at low cost.\n\nEngland was exposed to new foods (such as the potato imported from South America), and developed new tastes during the era. The more prosperous enjoyed a wide variety of food and drink, including exotic new drinks such as tea, coffee, and chocolate. French and Italian chefs appeared in the country houses and palaces bringing new standards of food preparation and taste. For example, the English developed a taste for acidic foods—such as oranges for the upper class—and started to use vinegar heavily. The gentry paid increasing attention to their gardens, with new fruits, vegetables and herbs; pasta, pastries, and dried mustard balls first appeared on the table. The apricot was a special treat at fancy banquets. Roast beef remained a staple for those who could afford it. The rest ate a great deal of bread and fish. Every class had a taste for beer and rum.\n\nAt the rich end of the scale the manor houses and palaces were awash with large, elaborately prepared meals, usually for many people and often accompanied by entertainment. The upper classes often celebrated religious festivals, weddings, alliances and the whims of the king or queen. Feasts were commonly used to commemorate the \"procession\" of the crowned heads of state in the summer months, when the king or queen would travel through a circuit of other nobles' lands both to avoid the plague season of London, and alleviate the royal coffers, often drained through the winter to provide for the needs of the royal family and court. This would include a few days or even a week of feasting in each noble's home, who depending on his or her production and display of fashion, generosity and entertainment, could have his way made in court and elevate his or her status for months or even years.\n\nSpecial courses after a feast or dinner which often involved a special room or outdoor gazebo (sometimes known as a folly) with a central table set with dainties of \"medicinal\" value to help with digestion. These would include wafers, comfits of sugar-spun anise or other spices, jellies and marmalades (a firmer variety than we are used to, these would be more similar to our gelatin jigglers), candied fruits, spiced nuts and other such niceties. These would be eaten while standing and drinking warm, spiced wines (known as hypocras) or other drinks known to aid in digestion. One must remember that sugar in the Middle Ages or Early Modern Period was often considered medicinal, and used heavily in such things. This was not a course of pleasure, though it could be as everything was a treat, but one of healthful eating and abetting the digestive capabilities of the body. It also, of course, allowed those standing to show off their gorgeous new clothes and the holders of the dinner and banquet to show off the wealth of their estate, what with having a special room just for banqueting.\n\nWhile the Tudor era presents an abundance of material on the women of the nobility—especially royal wives and queens—historians have recovered scant documentation about the average lives of women. There has, however, been extensive statistical analysis of demographic and population data which includes women, especially in their childbearing roles.\nThe role of women in society was, for the historical era, relatively unconstrained; Spanish and Italian visitors to England commented regularly, and sometimes caustically, on the freedom that women enjoyed in England, in contrast to their home cultures. England had more well-educated upper class women than was common anywhere in Europe.\n\nThe Queen's marital status was a major political and diplomatic topic. It also entered into the popular culture. Elizabeth's unmarried status inspired a cult of virginity. In poetry and portraiture, she was depicted as a virgin or a goddess or both, not as a normal woman. Elizabeth made a virtue of her virginity: in 1559, she told the Commons, \"And, in the end, this shall be for me sufficient, that a marble stone shall declare that a queen, having reigned such a time, lived and died a virgin\". Public tributes to the Virgin by 1578 acted as a coded assertion of opposition to the queen's marriage negotiations with the Duc d'Alençon.\n\nIn contrast to her father's emphasis on masculinity and physical prowess, Elizabeth emphasized the maternalism theme, saying often that she was married to her kingdom and subjects. She explained \"I keep the good will of all my husbands — my good people — for if they did not rest assured of some special love towards them, they would not readily yield me such good obedience,\" and promised in 1563 they would never have a more natural mother than she. Coch (1996) argues that her figurative motherhood played a central role in her complex self-representation, shaping and legitimating the personal rule of a divinely appointed female prince.\n\nOver ninety percent of English women (and adults, in general) entered marriage at the end of the 1500s and beginning of the 1600s, at an average age of about 25–26 years for the bride and 27–28 years for the groom, with the most common ages being 25-26 for grooms and 23 for brides. Among the nobility and gentry, the average was around 19-21 for brides and 24-26 for grooms. Many city and townswomen married for the first time in their thirties and forties and it was not unusual for orphaned young women to delay marriage until the late twenties or early thirties to help support their younger siblings, and roughly a quarter of all English brides were pregnant at their weddings.\n\nWith William Shakespeare at his peak, as well as Christopher Marlowe and many other playwrights, actors and theatres constantly busy, the high culture of the Elizabethan Renaissance was best expressed in its theatre. Historical topics were especially popular, not to mention the usual comedies and tragedies.\n\nTravelling musicians were in great demand at Court, in churches, at country houses, and at local festivals. Important composers included William Byrd (1543–1623), John Dowland (1563–1626) Thomas Campion (1567–1620), and Robert Johnson (c. 1583–c. 1634). The composers were commissioned by church and Court, and deployed two main styles, madrigal and ayre. The popular culture showed a strong interest in folk songs and ballads (folk songs that tell a story). It became the fashion in the late 19th century to collect and sing the old songs.\n\nIt has often been said that the Renaissance came late to England, in contrast to Italy and the other states of continental Europe; the fine arts in England during the Tudor and Stuart eras were dominated by foreign and imported talent—from Hans Holbein the Younger under Henry VIII to Anthony van Dyck under Charles I. Yet within this general trend, a native school of painting was developing. In Elizabeth's reign, Nicholas Hilliard, the Queen's \"limner and goldsmith,\" is the most widely recognized figure in this native development; but George Gower has begun to attract greater notice and appreciation as knowledge of him and his art and career has improved.\n\nThe Annual Summer Fair and other seasonal fairs such as May Day were often bawdy affairs. \n\nWatching plays became very popular during the Tudor period. Most towns sponsored plays enacted in town squares followed by the actors using the courtyards of taverns or inns (referred to as Inn-yards) followed by the first theatres (great open air amphitheatres and then the introduction of indoor theatres called Playhouses.) This popularity was helped by the rise of great playwrights such as William Shakespeare and Christopher Marlowe using London theatres such as the Globe Theatre. By 1595, 15,000 people a week were watching plays in London. It was during Elizabeth's reign that the first real theatres were built in England. Before theatres were built, actors travelled from town to town and performed in the streets or outside inns. \n\nMiracle plays were local re-enactments of stories from the Bible. They derived from the old custom of Mystery Plays, in which stories and fables were enacted to teach lessons or educate about life in general. They influenced Shakespeare.\n\nFestivals were popular seasonal entertainments\n\nThere were many different types of Elizabethan sports and entertainment. Animal sports included bear and bull baiting, dog fighting and cock fighting.\n\nThe rich enjoyed tennis, fencing, and jousting. Hunting was strictly limuited to the upper class. They favoured their packs of dogs and hounds trained to chase foxes, hares and boars. The rich also enjoyed hunting small game and birds with hawks, known as falconry. \n\nJousting was an upscale, very expensive sport where warriors on horseback raced toward each other in full armor trying to use their lance to knock the other off his horse. It was a violent sport--King Henry II of France was killed in a tournament in 1559, as were many lesser men. King Henry VIII was a champion; he finally retired from the lists after a hard fall left him unconscious for hours.\n\nOther sports included archery, bowling, hammer-throwing, quarter-staff contests, troco, quoits, skittles, wrestling and mob football.\n\nDice was a popular activity in all social classes. Cards appeared in Spain and Italy about 1370, but they probably came from Egypt. They began to spread throughout Europe and came into England around 1460. By the time of Elizabeth’s reign, gambling was a common sport. Cards were not played only by the upper class. Many of the lower classes had access to playing cards. The card suits tended to change over time. The first Italian and Spanish decks had the same suits: Swords, Batons/ Clubs, Cups, and Coins. The suits often changed from country to country. England probably followed the Latin version, initially using cards imported from Spain but later relying on more convenient supplies from France. Most of the decks that have survived use the French Suit: Spades, Hearts, Clubs, and Diamonds. Yet even before Elizabeth had begun to reign, the number of cards had been standardized to 52 cards per deck. The lowest court subject in England was called the “knave.” The lowest court card was therefore called the knave until later when the term “Jack” became more common. Popular card games included Maw, One and Thirty, Bone-ace. (These are all games for small group players.) Ruff and Honors was a team game.\nDuring the Elizabethan era, people looked forward to holidays because opportunities for leisure were limited, with time away from hard work being restricted to periods after church on Sundays. For the most part, leisure and festivities took place on a public church holy day. Every month had its own holiday, some of which are listed below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13418422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13418422", "title": "Eugene DeBruin", "text": "Eugene DeBruin\n\nEugene Henry DeBruin (April 1, 1933 – c. 1968) was a US Air Force staff sergeant, and a member of Air America serving in Laos during the Second Indochina War. \"Gene\" DeBruin was working as a \"kicker\" for Air America in 1963 when his C-46 was shot down. He was a POW at a Pathet Lao prison camp in Laos until he and other prisoners attempted to escape. After this, there is little known about DeBruin's whereabouts.\n\nEugene DeBruin was the second eldest of ten children that grew up in a Wisconsin farm. While growing up, DeBruin became interested in outdoor activities such as hunting, fishing and skiing.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, DeBruin joined the US Air Force in 1952. He served four years, mostly in Japan, as an aircraft mechanic reaching the rank of staff sergeant. During that time, he also obtained a private pilot license. He practiced judo during his time in Japan.\n\nAfter being discharged from the Air Force, DeBruin enrolled at the University of Montana at Missoula, Montana obtaining a degree in forestry. He then worked as a \"Smokejumper\" for three years in Alaska. DeBruin then moved to Mexico to learn Spanish with the intent of becoming a writer.\nAfter declining to join the Peace Corps, DeBruin volunteered as a \"kicker\" with Air America. His job was to kick the pallets of rice and other food out of an airplane to aid Lao refugees. According to his brother, he had plans of joining the Peace Corps after he finished his stint with Air America.\n\nOn September 5, 1963, during one of his flights over Laos, DeBruin's C-46 cargo airliner was shot down by ground fire. He took off on a mission with fellow Americans, C. Cheney and Charles Herrick, Thai Pisidhi Indradat, Prasit Promsuwan and Prasit Thanee, and Chinese Y.C. To. He crashed about 2 kilometers from Tchepone in Savannakhet Province. DeBruin, Y.C. To, and the three Thai nationals parachuted to safety, but were immediately captured by the Pathet Lao. Cheney and Herrick were killed in the crash.\n\nAfter his capture, DeBruin was moved to four different prisons, together with the other four prisoners. In May 1964, they managed to escape for three days, but were caught at a watering hole.\n\nAfter that failed attempt, DeBruin attempted a second escape. The other six prisoners who worked together for this second attempt were:\n\nDengler was the last to arrive at the POW camp, and was initially distrusted by the other prisoners as they thought he might be an informant. Eventually the prisoners advised Dengler of their past escape attempts.\n\nOn June 29, 1966, while the guards were eating, the group slipped out of their hand and foot restraints and grabbed the guards' unattended submachine guns. The Pathet Lao guards spotted some of the other prisoners trying to escape. A shootout between the two sides ensued and Dengler and Indradat ended up killing five guards so the others could escape. Two others ran off, presumably to get help. The seven prisoners split into three groups: Indradat, and the other Thai prisoners; DeBruin stayed with To, who had been too ill to continue with the escape; and Dengler and Martin headed for the Mekong River to escape to Thailand. Martin was killed by a Laotian villager, while Dengler was rescued after 23 days in the jungle. Indradat was also rescued later.\n\nOf the seven prisoners that attempted to escape, only two reached safety (Dengler and Indradat). One report stated that DeBruin was killed in the escape attempt, but Indradat originally reported that he last saw DeBruin attempting to \"reach high ground in a classified location\".\n\nIn March 1971, the Central Intelligence Agency had reconnaissance Team Papaya/305 operating in the area of DeBruin's capture. Tasked with gathering military intelligence concerning DeBruin, it returned a report that the CIA's case handler thought truthful:\n\nEugene Henry DeBruin arrived at Muong Phine (XD 0927) in late 1966. On or about 3 January 1967 DeBruin was taken from Muong Phine and arrived at Muong Nong (XD 6010) on or about 5 January 1967. The Muong Nong prison contained only eight other Americans at this time. While in Muong Nong, DeBruin was strictly guarded by the North Vietnamese Army and he suffered very much. The North Vietnamese Army did not torture him but kept him imprisoned and gave him propaganda lectures. Pathet Lao General Khamkong and North Vietnamese Army General Tao, who speaks English, were the only high ranking officers to interview him. The North Vietnamese Army often displayed anger toward the prisoners because of the U.S. bombing in their area. DeBruin was allowed to eat his meals with, and talk to the other Americans but the villages had no knowledge whether he ever received letters or packages. DeBruin never escaped from Muong Phine or Muong Nong, because he was strictly guarded. In early January 1968 Ong Lui and six North Vietnamese Army soldiers took DeBruin and eight other Americans away. The villagers did not know Ong Lui's rank and said he was not from that area, but probably came from NVN to get the prisoners. The villagers were told only that DeBruin and the others were being taken away for training. End of report.\n\nThe case agent's superiors in the CIA disbelieved the report, as did the Defense Intelligence Agency.\n\nDeBruin's brother, Jerome DeBruin, traveled to Laos in 1972 in search of information. Although the Pathet Lao admitted holding American prisoners of war, they insisted that the United States negotiate directly with them to ensure their release, but this never happened.\n\nEugene DeBruin was portrayed by Jeremy Davies in Werner Herzog's 2007 film \"Rescue Dawn\". The film focuses mostly on Dieter Dengler's life as told to Herzog by Dengler himself, but has been severely criticized by members of the family of DeBruin and Indradat, the other survivor of the group, for portraying DeBruin as a selfish and unstable prisoner who threatened to betray his fellow prisoners at any time, and who, at the time of their escape, did not know what to do.\n\nHerzog acknowledged that DeBruin acted heroically during his imprisonment, refusing to leave while some sick prisoners remained, but Herzog was unaware of this until after the film had been completed. Herzog states that this narrative aspect probably would have been included had he learned it earlier.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4858918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4858918", "title": "Exhibition Road", "text": "Exhibition Road\n\nExhibition Road is a street in South Kensington, London which is home to several major museums and academic establishments, including the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Science Museum and the Natural History Museum.\n\nThe road gets its name from The Great Exhibition of 1851 which was held just inside Hyde Park at the northern end of the road. It forms the central feature in an area known as Albertopolis.\n\nIt provides access to many nationally significant institutions, including the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Science Museum, Natural History Museum (which incorporates the former Geological Museum), the Royal Geographical Society, Imperial College London (directly and via Imperial College Road), Pepperdine University Abroad and Jagiellonian University Abroad. The London Goethe Institute and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints meeting house are also located on Exhibition Road.\n\nA design competition for plans of how to improve the street's design to reflect its cultural importance was held in 2003 by the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea. The competition was won by the architectural firm Dixon and Jones for a shared space scheme for the road and surrounding streets which would give pedestrians greater priority whilst still allow some vehicular traffic at a reduced speed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22531124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22531124", "title": "Festa on Ice", "text": "Festa on Ice\n\nFesta on Ice is a figure skating show that IB Sports produced. 2010 Winter Olympic champion Kim Yuna is a former client of IB Sports, which is a sports agency based on Seoul, South Korea.\n\nThe 2010 Festa on Ice was held at the Olympic Gymnastics Arena in Seoul, South Korea on April 16–18, 2010. 2010 FOI was directed by Brian Orser and choreographed by David Wilson.\n\n Kim Yuna\n\n\n\nThe 2009 Festa on Ice was held at the KINTEX center in Goyang City, Gyeonggi Province, in South Korea on April 24–26, 2009. 2009 FOI was directed by Brian Orser and choreographed by David Wilson and Lho Ji-Hyun. The tickets were sold out in just 20 minutes.\n\n Kim Yuna\n\nSpecial guests\n\nDuring the show, all skaters enjoyed Korean traditional game \"gongginori\". Some of Korean skaters taught this game to the other skaters. Every skater had fun with that game.\n\nThe 2009 Festa on Ice was different from other ice shows. FOI installed a large screen and showed video arts for the exhibitions of skaters. Performers of the show presented unique programs such as a battle between B-boys and skaters.\n\n\n\n2008 Festa on Ice was held on May 17–18, 2008 in the Mokdong Ice Rink in Seoul, South Korea. 2008 FOI was directed by Brian Orser and choreographed by David Wilson.\n\nThe cast for 2008 FOI was the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "8375856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8375856", "title": "Final (competition)", "text": "Final (competition)\n\nThe final of a competition is the match or round in which the winner of the entire event is decided.\n\nIn sports competitions following a knockout system, where only two individuals or teams compete in each match, the final is usually played between the winners of two semi-finals. However, if more than two entrants are required for each match, then qualification for the final may be through some other process such as winning \"heats\".\n\nThe final is usually, but not always, the last match in a tournament to be played, and the winner of this match is declared the winner of the whole tournament. In many contests, the winner(s) and runner(s)-up receive gold and silver medals respectively. Another game, or competition, between the two players who lost in the semi-finals is done to determine who receives the bronze medal. Unusually, many teams (32 in recent years) qualify for the FIFA World Cup finals. These teams then play each other in various formats until the ultimate two 'finalists' play off for the gold and silver medals.\n\nIf the final round is contested in a \"best-of\" format (like \"best-of-7\"), the term is sometimes called \"finals,\" (playoffs) to denote that there is more than one game (like \"the NBA Finals\") The Stanley Cup Final has been referred to in the singular since the 2005-06 season. However, it refers to its semi-final round as the Conference Finals, because there are two separate ones being contested.\n\n"}
{"id": "14749775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14749775", "title": "Finnish Rally Championship", "text": "Finnish Rally Championship\n\nThe Finnish Rally Championship is the national rally championship in Finland. The series currently has four classes; Super4 (including R5, S2000 and old WRC cars), Production4 (including Group N cars), R2 (including R2 and R1 cars) and Super2 (including other 2WD cars apart from R2 and R1).\n\nThe series began in 1959 and featured four events; Hankiralli, 500-ralli, Syysralli and the 1000 Lakes Rally. Esko Keinänen and his co-driver Kai Nuortila took the title with a Peugeot 403. In 1970, Group 2 was introduced with Timo Mäkinen taking the first title. Group 4 championship was contested from 1976 to 1978. In the 1980s, Group A cars were allowed in Group 1, eventually replacing the older homologation entirely. Group 2 was replaced by Group N in 1987 and a new championship was created for Group B cars from 1983 to 1988. Group 4 entrants were allowed to participate in the Group B championship in 1983 and 1984. In the late 1980s, groups A and N were divided into over and under 2000 cc classes, creating the new groups \"a\" and \"n\". In addition to the usual classes, the Finnish Rally Championship for Ladies has been contested from 1971 to 1978 and from 1986 to 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "44287782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44287782", "title": "Global Money Week", "text": "Global Money Week\n\n]\n\nGlobal Money Week (GMW) is a global money awareness celebration that takes place in March every year. It is coordinated by the Child and Youth Finance International (CYFI) Secretariat to raise awareness on Economic Citizenship and directly engage children and youth worldwide on the issue. The celebration of Global Money Week consists of a series of activities held at the regional, national and local level by the partners and stakeholders of the Child and Youth Finance Movement, and are geared toward engaging children, youth and their communities in learning about financial education and financial inclusion.\n\nAccording to the Global Money Week website, “GMW is an annual global celebration, initiated by Child & Youth Finance International (CYFI), with local and regional events and activities aimed at inspiring children and youth to learn about money, saving, creating livelihoods, gaining employment and becoming an entrepreneur.” \n\nIn 2013, GMW involved approximately 1 million children in 80 countries ranging across Europe, the Americas, Africa, Asia and the Middle East. Over 1000 activities were organized by 403 organizations, such as NGOs, central banks, Ministries of Finance, corporations and schools.\n\nGMW 2014 saw the participation of 3 million children, 118 countries, over 2000 activities and 490 organizations involved in the theme of enterprise: among those, central banks, governmental bodies, educational institutions. The 2014 event saw a number of multi-sectoral organizations working together for the first time.\n\nDuring GMW 2015 the theme was, “Save Today, Safe Tomorrow.” and over 5.6 million children & youth took part in the celebrations in 124 countries.\n\nIn 2016, GMW expanded even further, reaching over 7 million children and young people across 132 countries. An ever increasing number of countries and organizations were involved in supporting the millions of young people taking part in money awareness, financial literacy, and entrepreneurship activities during the 2016 Global Money Week celebrations, which focused on the theme 'Take Part, Save Smart'.\n\nThe 2017 edition of GMW will take place from 27 March - 2 April, with the theme 'Learn Save Earn':\n\nDuring Global Money Week children and youth are actively involved in the planning, organizing and in the actualization of the events. Activities organized during GMW for children and youth are numerous and they include (among others): youth debates, talks by prominent public figures, webinars, visits to national banks, parliaments, stock exchanges, money museums and local businesses, exhibitions, artistic activities such as theatre plays and cartoons, contests and competitions, financial education games, charity fundraising, video making, radio and TV shows.\n\nThe partners involved in organizing and hosting the events which take place during GMW range from central banks to Ministries of Finance and Education, NGOs, schools, corporations, professional bodies and media. The partners include civil society organizations such as Aflatoun, Children International, Save the Children and World Vision. Notable financial institutions have participated in Global Money Week, such as ING Group, NASDAQ OMX Group, VISA, MasterCard and NYSE Euronext as well as stock exchanges in many countries like Belgium, Lithuania, Kenya, Malaysia, Sweden and the UK, to name a few. A full list can be found online.\n\n"}
{"id": "34232850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34232850", "title": "I Love Hip Hop in Morocco", "text": "I Love Hip Hop in Morocco\n\nI Love Hip Hop in Morocco is a 2007 film by Josh Asen who decided to film hip hop in Morocco with his friend Jennifer Needle. While interviewing Moroccan hip hop artists, they told him that they needed concerts to promote their music. Asen managed to get the U.S. Embassy and Coca-Cola to sponsor a music festival.\n\nGroups of musicians started the country's first hip hop tour in three Moroccan cities - Meknes, Marrakesh, and Casablanca. The three concerts brought in thousands of audience members.\n\nThe film ended up as a 2007 documentary about the musicians' struggles and what it is like to rap in a Muslim country. The documentary mainly focuses on DJ Key, H-Kayne, Bigg, Fati Show, and the hip hop group Fnaire.\n"}
{"id": "6942235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6942235", "title": "Informa", "text": "Informa\n\nInforma plc is a multinational events and publishing company with its head office and registered office in London. It has offices in 43 countries and around 6,500 employees. It owns numerous brands including CRC Press, Datamonitor, Fan Expo, Institute for International Research, \"Lloyd's List\" (London Press Lloyd), Penton, Routledge, Taylor & Francis, and UBM.\n\nIt is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.\n\nInforma's oldest business started in 1734 when \"Lloyd's List\", now one of the world's oldest continuously running journals, began covering London shipping news.\n\nInforma itself was created in 1998 by the merger of IBC Group plc and LLP Group plc. Since then Informa has expanded considerably, including a 2004 merger with the publishing company Taylor & Francis and a 2005 acquisition of IIR Holdings, a human capital development company, for £768 million. In October 2006, the company was approached by Springer Science and Business Media in a takeover bid, but in early November the Informa board rejected the 630p per share offer as too low.\n\nIn early 2007, chairman Richard Hooper announced his retirement in May and, after consulting with major shareholders, the company moved chief executive Peter Rigby to chairman, and managing director David Gilbertson to Rigby's former post. Informa explained Rigby's move by the need to maintain management stability, although it generated some controversy because it did not follow the advice of the UK's Combined Code on Corporate Governance.\n\nOn 8 June 2008, \"The Sunday Telegraph\" revealed that United Business Media (UBM) had proposed a merger with Informa to create a media group worth over £3 billion. The talks were confirmed by Informa in a press release that same day, but described as \"preliminary\". Previously on 13 May \"The Times\" had reported that the Carlyle Group and Apax Partners were considering bidding for the company. On 17 June talks with UBM ended because of the rapid rise in Informa's stock price after the public disclosure of the potential merger. On 26 June a private equity consortium consisting of Providence Equity Partners, the Carlyle Group and Hellman & Friedman proposed a takeover bid offering 506 pence per share.\n\nOn 1 May 2009 the company announced that it would be restructure its business so it was incorporated in Jersey but tax resident in Switzerland.\n\nOn 10 July 2013 the company announced that Peter Rigby would retire at the end of 2013 to be replaced as CEO by Stephen A Carter. Also in 2013, Informa acquired the Canadian company Hobby Star Marketing, who runs the comic book convention brand Fan Expo. Informa has since acquired other conventions and placed them under Fan Expo's auspises, including Dallas Comic Con and MegaCon.\n\nIn December 2013, Informa acquired the assets of Elsevier Business Intelligence (EBI) from Reed Elsevier. The EBI business unit includes such publications as The Pink Sheet, The Gray Sheet, IN VIVO, Start-Up, and the Strategic Transactions database along with a series of notable conferences. The EBI assets combined with Scrip, Datamonitor and several other publications formed the newly created Pharma Intelligence division of Informa Business Information.\n\nIn January 2014, Stephen Carter became CEO of Informa plc. In September 2017, Informa announced that it would be acquiring Dove Medical Press.\n\nIn January 2018, Informa announced its intent to acquire UBM plc. The transaction was completed in June 2018.\n\nThe company operates more than 500 trade shows and 10,000 conferences annually, and publishes newsletters, academic journals, commercial databases, and academic and business books. Topics covered include arts and humanities through social sciences to physical science and technology; and finance and the law through to telecommunications, maritime trade, energy, biotech, commodities and agriculture. Its online publishing portal Informaworld provided subscribers with more than half a million journal articles and 13,000 e-books from all its imprints. In June 2011 the journals and e-books transferred to a new website, Taylor & Francis Online. Abstracting and indexing databases and bibliographic databases were to move from Informaworld to Taylor & Francis Online at a later date. Besides publishing, the group has several other interests represented by the brands it owns in many countries. These brands (companies) work in the areas of performance improvement and management consulting. It has the following divisions:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3670531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3670531", "title": "International Festival of Animated Objects", "text": "International Festival of Animated Objects\n\nThe International Festival of Animated Objects is a biennial festival sponsored by the non-profit group \"Calgary Animated Objects Society\" that promotes the arts of puppetry, mask, and animated objects. It takes place in downtown Calgary, Alberta, Canada.\n\nThe IFAO features high calibre local, national, and international artists working in the realm of animated objects. Programming includes live performances, screenings, lectures, workshops, and exhibitions for all ages, and adult audiences, including the ever-popular late night \"Dolly Wiggler Cabaret\" and \"Opening Night Galabash\".\n\nPast programming has included Canadian marionette superstar Ronnie Burkett, BC spectacle artists Three on the Tree, Tsimphisan carver Victor Reece, Cirque du Soleil artist Mooky Cornish, Phillip Huber (of \"Being John Malkovich\" marionette fame), Frank Meschkuleit (\"Bride of Chucky\", \"The Left Hand of Frank\"), Calgary's The Old Trout Puppet Workshop, Red Smarteez, and Czech group Buchty a Loutky, amongst others.\n\nPuppets on Film is the screening portion of the International Festival of Animated Objects. Submissions for the film portion may be made through Withoutabox.\n\nSupporting the IFAO are the following organizations:\n\nOfficial Website\n\nPress Links\n"}
{"id": "494675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=494675", "title": "Intimidation", "text": "Intimidation\n\nIntimidation (also called cowing) is intentional behavior that \"would cause a person of ordinary sensibilities\" to fear injury or harm. It is not necessary to prove that the behavior was so violent as to cause mean terror or that the victim was actually frightened.\n\nThreat, criminal threatening (or threatening behavior) is the crime of intentionally or knowingly putting another person in fear of bodily injury. \"Threat of harm generally involves a perception of injury...physical or mental damage...act or instance of injury, or a material and detriment or loss to a person.\" \"A terroristic threat is a crime generally involving a threat to commit violence communicated with the intent to terrorize other.\"\n\n\"Intimidation\" is the name of a criminal offense in several U.S. states.\n\nThreatening behaviors may be conceptualized as a maladaptive outgrowth of normal competitive urge for interrelational dominance generally seen in animals. Alternatively, intimidation may result from the type of society in which individuals are socialized, as human beings are generally reluctant to engage in confrontation or threaten violence.\n\nLike all behavioral traits, it exists in greater or lesser manifestation in each individual person over time, but may be a more significant \"compensatory behavior\" for some as opposed to others. Behavioral theorists often see threatening behaviours as a consequence of being threatened by others, including parents, authority figures, playmates and siblings. \"Use of force is justified when a person reasonably believes that it is necessary for the defense of oneself or another against the immediate use of unlawful force.\"\n\nIntimidation may be employed consciously or unconsciously, and a percentage of people who employ it consciously may do so as the result of selfishly rationalized notions of its appropriation, utility or self-empowerment. Intimidation related to prejudice and discrimination may include conduct \"which annoys, threatens, intimidates, alarms, or puts a person in fear of their safety...because of a belief or perception regarding such person's race, color, national origin, ancestry, gender, religion, religious practice, age, disability or sexual orientation, regardless of whether the belief or perception is correct.\"\n\nIntimidation may be manifested in such manner as physical contacts, glowering countenance, emotional manipulation, verbal abuse, making someone feel lower than you, purposeful embarrassment and/or actual physical assault. \"Behavior may include, but is not limited to, epithets, derogatory comments or slurs and lewd propositions, assault, impeding or blocking movement, offensive touching or any physical interference with normal work or movement, and visual insults, such as derogatory posters or cartoons.\"\n\n\"Intimidation\" is the name of a criminal offense in several U.S. states. The definitions of the crime of Intimidation differ by state.\n\nIn Montana, Intimidation is defined as follows:\n\n45-5-203. Intimidation. \n\nSeveral states have a crime called \"Ethnic intimidation\". For instance, the law of the state of Michigan reads:\n\n750.147b Ethnic intimidation.\n\nSec. 147b.\n\nCrimes closely related to intimidation are menacing, coercion, terrorizing, and assault.\n\nIn California, making criminal threats is a wobbler and may be charged as either a misdemeanor or a felony under California Penal Code 422. A felony criminal threat is a strike under California's three strikes law.\n\nIntimidation can also be a civil offense, in addition to a criminal offense, in some U.S. states. For example, in Oregon a violation of the state criminal statute for intimidation results in a civil violation. The plaintiff in the civil suit for intimidation may then secure remedies including an injunction or special and general damages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1473761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1473761", "title": "Kamen Rider Blade", "text": "Kamen Rider Blade\n\n, is a Japanese tokusatsu superhero television series. It is the fourteenth installment in the Kamen Rider Series. It aired on TV Asahi from January 25, 2004 to January 23, 2005. It is a joint collaboration between Ishimori Productions and Toei. Along with the standard insect motif of the Kamen Rider series, \"Kamen Rider Blade\" also uses a playing card motif. Each Rider is assigned one of the suits from a deck of cards.\n\n\"Blade\" was later released on DVD by Toei. There were twelve volumes released with the first eleven having four episodes per DVD and the twelfth volume with five episodes.\n\nTen thousand years ago, a massive battle known as the Battle Royal was fought by fifty-two Undead, each representing a species fighting for dominance over all others. The winner was the Human Undead, known as Category Two of Hearts, giving dominion of the Earth to humanity. In the present day, archaeologists discover the sealed Undead, and accidentally set them free. Thus, a new Battle Royal begins.\n\nHaving developed the Rider System, based on the Joker's ability to copy sealed Undead, the organization BOARD (Board Of Archaeological Research Department) equips two young men, who become Kamen Riders: Kazuma Kenzaki and Sakuya Tachibana fight together as Kamen Rider Blade and Kamen Rider Garren to protect humans from Undead and seal them. Also fighting Undead is the mysterious Chalice, a Kamen Rider whose purpose is unknown. In addition, a young man struggles to free himself from the control of the sealed Undead powering his own Undead-made Rider System, fighting as Kamen Rider Leangle.\n\n is the theatrical release, first in theaters on September 11, 2004.\n\nFour years after event of the series, however, Blade forcing seals the Joker, the characters have moved on with their lives: Kenzaki is a garbage man, Mutsuki has graduated high school, and Kotarō has published a book about the Kamen Riders to great success, but on Amane's upcoming birthday, it was revealed that she has become a delinquent without the emotional support of Hajime. The Undead have been re-released, and a new trio of Kamen Riders—Glaive, Larc and Lance—have emerged from BOARD, now led by Tachibana. After recapturing two of the Category Aces, Kenzaki and Mutsuki join with the new Riders. When all the Undead are sealed once more, Glaive reveals himself to be the Albino Joker, a white version of the original Joker, and captures Kotarō's niece to obtain the ultimate power, sealing her in the Vanity Card. In order to free Amane from the card, Hajime is unsealed from the Joker Card and the four Riders are again united, intent on saving Amane and stopping the Albino Joker.\n\n is the 2015 entry of the \"Super Hero Taisen\" film series, featuring the cast of \"Kamen Rider Drive\" and the appearance of Kamen Rider 3, which was originally created by Shotaro Ishinomori for the one-shot 1972 manga . Kousei Amano, Takayuki Tsubaki, Ryoji Morimoto and Takahiro Hojo reprise their roles in this film, which is scheduled to open in theaters on March 21, 2015.\n\nIt was reported from the people who had attended Kamen Rider Blade Special Off Meeting in 2016 had reported that the members have announced the Production of V-Cinema for Kamen Rider Blade. Ryoji Morimoto had said that the V-Cinema is just one step away. Takayuki Tsubaki had also told there since there was demand of Kamen Rider Garren's King form in Various Social Networks, there are chances that this form may appear in the V-Cinema.\n\n is a Hyper Battle Video, wherein a Trial-series cyborg pretends to be Kenzaki and copies the Blay Rouzer, starting a fight with the real Kenzaki. During their battle, Tachibana and Mutsuki are unable to tell the two apart, which results in their humorously attacking the real Kenzaki (shooting him in the rear end and bashing him over the head), before Hajime steps in and reveals the impostor. As with all Hyper Battle Videos, this serves as a device to exposit the Rider's various powers and abilities.\n\n\"Kamen Rider Blade: New Generation\" is a television special made of a collection of vignettes which aired following certain episodes of \"Kamen Rider Blade\", following the history of Kamen Riders Glaive, L'arc, and Lance. This is a direct tie-in to the movie \"Missing Ace\".\n\nThe S.I.C. Hero Saga side story for \"Blade\" is titled follows the story of the series after the finale and features characters from \"Missing Ace\". The new character introduced in the story is . Two other special editions of the Hero Saga stories also feature \"Blade\" characters: \"Hero Saga Special Edition: King\" featuring and \"Hero Saga Special Edition: Clover\" featuring . \"Day After Tomorrow\" ran in the February through May 2007 issues of \"Monthly Hobby Japan\" magazine. \"King\" was featured in the May 2008 issue and \"Clover\" was featured in the June 2008 issue.\n\n\n, written by Junichi Miyashita, is part of a series of spin-off novel adaptations of the Heisei Era Kamen Rider Series. This sequel to the TV series takes place 300 years following the television series finale. It chronicles Kenzaki's quest to end his life as the Navy Joker after three centuries. In one instance, Kenzaki is captured by a criminal organization and is tortured, but still does not die.\n\nLater in the novel, he becomes a war photographer, all he sees is death. He then enlists in the army for a foreign country, steps on landmines and explodes. Also named are the new Garren and Leangle, Tachihara and Satsuki.\n\nThe only returning characters are Kenzaki and Hajime. Kenzaki has a weaker personality compared to the TV Series due to living for a long time and seeing a lot of horrible things. Satsuki, the new Leangle's treated the same like the original Leangle, Mutsuki.\n\nThe novel was released on February 28, 2013.\n\n\n\n\nA video game based on the series was produced by Bandai for the PlayStation 2. It is an action game that featured many of the characters from the TV series. It was released only in Japan near the end of the TV series on December 9, 2004.\n"}
{"id": "18737569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18737569", "title": "List of Barack Obama 2008 presidential campaign staff members", "text": "List of Barack Obama 2008 presidential campaign staff members\n\nList of persons holding prominent positions within the Barack Obama presidential primary campaign, 2008.\n\nAccording to an August 2008 statement by Deputy Campaign Manager Steve Hildebrand, the Obama campaign had \"large-scale operations in 22 states, medium operations in many others, and small staffs in only a handful of states,\" with several thousand paid operatives on the ground between Obama staff and Democratic Party staff. That month, these numbers included \"about 200 paid staffers working in Florida and more on the way, 90 in Michigan with plans to expand to 200 by August, at least 200 each eventually in Pennsylvania and Ohio, and 50 in Missouri with plans to expand to 150.\"\n\nThe vice presidential search committee included:\n\nAn early 2007 article in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" lists the following persons in Obama's White House team:\n\nOther key staff positions filled internally and from rival campaigns after the primaries included:\n\n\nBy July 2008 the Obama campaign had some 300 persons working on foreign policy, and organized along bureaucratic lines like a \"miniature State Department.\" Notable among these people are:\n\nFormer Hillary Clinton supporters:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12134522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12134522", "title": "Live Earth concert, Hamburg", "text": "Live Earth concert, Hamburg\n\nThe Live Earth concert in Germany was held at HSH Nordbank Arena, Hamburg on 7 July 2007.\nIn order of appearance:\n\n\n\n\nN24 and Pro7 did the television live coverage.\n\nMSN were responsible for the online broadcasting of the concert.\n\n"}
{"id": "19455779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19455779", "title": "Maria Zankovetska Theatre", "text": "Maria Zankovetska Theatre\n\nMaria Zankovetska Theatre (, \"Natsionalnyi akademichnyi ukrayinskyi dramatychnyi teatr imeni Mariyi Zankovetskoyi\";  ) is a drama theatre in the centre of Lviv, Ukraine, at the intersection of Lesya Ukrayinka Street and Prospekt Svobody. The building was erected in the mid 19th century and until World War I was used as a theatre stage and a session hall of the regional council.\n\nThe theatre was founded by Count (1780–1848) Abdank coat of arms, who as early as 1819 had applied for permission from the Austrian Imperial authorities to build it following the final Partition of Poland. Construction of the theatre’s neoclassical building began in 1837, the project was designed by architects Jan Salzmann and Ludwig Pichl. The complex was built in the location of bastions, which surrounded the and its foundation was made of 16,000 oak logs. In 1842 it was the third biggest building of Central Europe. Apart from the theatre itself, the complex also included apartments, for such famous personalities as Artur Grottger and Juliusz Kossak. On the opening day, March 28, 1842, a Franz Grillparzer play in the German language was presented, and on the next day, Aleksander Fredro's play \"Śluby panieńskie\" was presented, this time in Polish.\n\nIn initial years, plays both in Polish and German were presented, and this lasted until 1871, when all German plays were withdrawn and the theatre became a Polish-language only. In 1872, operas were also presented, which made Skarbek Theatre the sole opera scene in Galicia. \n\nIn late years of the 19th century, the complex became insufficient, and in 1900, it was augmented by a brand new building of the Grand Theatre. Skarbek Theatre was turned into a philharmonic, then into a cinema. Currently, it is home of the Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre of Maria Zankovetska. On May 18, 2008, celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the Polish People's Theatre of Lviv took place in the complex, with performance of a play by Marian Hemar.\n\n"}
{"id": "38043625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38043625", "title": "MineCon", "text": "MineCon\n\nMineCon is a convention for the video game \"Minecraft\", hosted by Mojang. The first gathering in 2010 was known as MinecraftCon. The MINECON 2011 convention was held in Las Vegas and celebrated the launch of the game with \"Minecraft\"-related discussion panels and gaming areas. The most recent convention, held in Anaheim, had 12,000 attendees. The latest event, known as MineCon Earth, took place on 18 November and marked the first free online MineCon event.\n\nMinecraftCon 2010 was a gathering of more than 30 people at Bellevue, Washington on 31 August. Markus Persson made an appearance at the meet-up when several requests were made for a community meet-up, so he called on the community to pick no specific venue. This was not technically a convention, but some count it as the first \"Minecraft\" convention.\n\n5,000 people attended the first official MINECON convention held in Las Vegas on 18 November 2011. The convention focused on celebrating the game's release and hosted \"Minecraft\"-related discussion panels, and invited people to play the game with others while at the convention. There were keynote speeches from members of the community, building contests, costume contests and exhibits. One of the many events at MINECON was the \"Nether Party\", an event for those aged 21 and over, featuring deadmau5. This event also marked the release of Minecraft 1.0 to the public, officially taking the game out of beta.\n\nOn 2 August 2012, Mojang announced that the 2012 MINECON convention would take place in the Paris Disneyland Park on 24 and 25 November. The announcement was made over the social networking platform Twitter when the game's creator, Markus Persson, posted a short trailer revealing the new convention location. The video shows Mojang team members wearing Disney paraphernalia, and Persson comments to lead developer Jens Bergensten, \"I think they are trying to tell us something\". Joystiq's JC Fletcher said that the site was a \"step up\" from the first MINECON's location in Las Vegas. The second annual convention was the first held outside of the United States, making it available to European fans who might not have been able to attend the first. It was held in the wake of \"Minecraft\"'s growing popularity as the Xbox 360 version of the game sold 3 million copies. 2012 was also the start of several in-game unofficial MINECONs, notably Virtual MINECON, which although an unofficial event, was attended by a member of the Mojang Team. Many in-game MINECONs have announced an intent to return with the start of the next MINECON.\n\n4,500 fans attended the convention in 2012. Mojang made several announcements at the 2012 convention. Details about the 1.5 \"Redstone\" update were revealed as well as information on the game's modding API. The Redstone update was planned for release in early March 2013 and included new features added to the redstone ore in the game. \"Minecraft\" 1.5 added hoppers, droppers, and more.\n\nIn April 2013, Lydia Winters revealed that MINECON 2013 would be held in the United States. Jens Bergensten later said that it would be on the east coast. On 27 June, it was announced on Mojang's YouTube Channel that MINECON 2013 will be held in Orlando, Florida. The website for the Orange County Convention Center had listed MINECON as an upcoming event in November, with an attendance of 7,500, but then removed the event from the web page. Tickets went on sale in three batches each of 2,500 tickets on 31 July 2 August, and 3 August. The first batch of 2,500 tickets was sold out in three seconds, according to Mojang COO Vu Bui. The event took place on 2 and 3 November. Minecraft YouTubers like DanTDM, Thinknoodles , and ThnxCya joined\n\nOn 30 March 2014, Lydia Winters revealed in a tweet that MINECON 2014 would be held in Europe. However, on 21 August 2014, Vu Bui created a blog post, stating that there would be no MINECON 2014, but instead the next MINECON would be in Spring 2015 in London. There is a tooltip on both Minecraft: Bedrock Edition and Minecraft: Legacy Console Edition loading screen that says \"No-one knows where MINECON 2014 was held.\"\n\nOn 2 February 2015, Vu Bui announced MINECON 2015 would be held in London, at the ExCeL London Exhibition and Conference Centre on 4 and 5 July 2015. Ticket prices were announced on 18 March 2015 and were set at £129. During the opening ceremony on 4 July 2015 it was announced by Guinness World Records that MINECON won the world record for the most attendance for a convention that is solely for one game, selling 10,000 tickets.\n\nOn 7 March 2016, Mojang announced in a blog post that MINECON 2016 would be held in Anaheim, California, at the Anaheim Convention Center on 24 and 25 September 2016. Tickets to the event were $300 per person, and toddlers aged 3 and under were admitted free. The Minecraft team received another award, as they sold 15,000 tickets, which sold out within seconds of going on sale. They announced new features during that time, such as the Minecraft novel, \"Minecraft: The Island\", and an update coming to the console versions of the game.\n\nOn 8 August 2017, Mojang announced that MINECON will be taking the form of an interactive 90-minute livestream on 18 November 2017 17:00 GMT dubbed MINECON Earth. The host of MINECON Earth is Will Arnett, a Canadian actor. After this announcement came the introduction of 'Official Community Events', which allow events such as Minefaire, Minevention and Multiplay's BlockFest to be considered 'Official Minecraft Conventions'.\nDuring MINECON Earth, Jens \"Jeb\" Bergensten announced the next update, the 1.13 \"The Update Aquatic\" update. This update was released in July 2018. Vu Bui, Mojang COO, also announced the winner mob based on vote, \"The Monster of The Night Skies\".\n\nOn 10 April 2018, Mojang announced that MINECON EARTH will be taking place on 29 September 2018 for 90 minutes on stream. It is claimed to be the biggest Minecraft celebration ever, with panels, community highlights, and a costume competition. The event is also featuring info and pre/post show events. During the event, Mojang announced \"\", a dungeon-crawler spin-off of \"Minecraft\".\n\nAt some MINECONs, attendees have received an exclusive in-game cape. \n\n"}
{"id": "39750262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39750262", "title": "Monetary reform in the Soviet Union, 1991", "text": "Monetary reform in the Soviet Union, 1991\n\nMonetary reform of 1991 (known also as Pavlov Reform) was the last of such in the Soviet Union. The reform had a confiscatory character. It began on January 22, 1991. Its architect was Minister of Finance Valentin Pavlov, who was to become the last prime minister of the Soviet Union.\n\n22 January 1991 President of the USSR Mikhail Gorbachev signed a decree on withdrawal from circulation and retirement of the 50- and 100-ruble banknotes of then-current 1961 issue.\n\nThe signing of the Decree was reported on television at 21:00 pm Moscow time same day. By that time, virtually all financial institutions and shops were closed for the day. In the next few hours, the most \"resourceful\" people managed to exchange their 50 - and 100-ruble banknotes at institutions that were open late, like subway and railway stations and in taxis as many cashiers and taxi drivers were not aware of the news.\n\nSome were able to send large remittances at late-open post offices, at railway stations, working 24 hours to relatives or to themselves. Some managed to purchase advance rail and air tickets and pay with 50 - and 100-ruble banknotes with an intention to return then for refund in other banknotes.\n\nThe reform included provision for the 50- and 100-ruble banknotes of 1961 standard to be redeemable for exchange in \"limited\" quantities per person or family through workplace-organized exchange locations to smaller-denomination banknotes or to new-issue (1991) bills of 50 and 100 rubles denomination.\n\nThe exchange was a subject to significant limitations:\n\n\nHowever, actual exchange was also limited by the amount of cash available to exchange locations. Withdrawal at the \"Savings Bank of the USSR\" - the only consumer bank in USSR was also limited to no more than 500 rubles per month per depositor.\n\nIn reality, deposits in several savings banks, including those in different cities, were allowed and common. As there was no technical way to link different accounts, an ad-hoc decision was made to make notes of withdrawals on the last pages of passport, where bank's officers made a mark of the amounts withdrawn from the deposit.\n\nGovernment plans succeeded only in part, and had tremendous negative effect: confiscatory procedure allowed to withdraw from circulation 14 billion rubles in cash, but the surprise attack (or reform?) which intended to help in the fight against \"speculation\", \"unearned\" income, counterfeiting, \"smuggling\" and corruption, resulted in a loss of public confidence in the government's actions.\n\nUnpopular \"shock therapy\" reforms in the Soviet Union under the leadership of Pavlov continued.\n\nOn April 2, just as suddenly, consumer prices (then controlled by government) increased about 3-fold, cash dried up and so many daily wage workers lost their jobs, Soviet Union crashed miserably and got separated into different nations.\n\n"}
{"id": "42832398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42832398", "title": "Murder of Susan Poupart", "text": "Murder of Susan Poupart\n\nSusan \"Suzy\" Poupart (November 12, 1960 – May 20, 1990) was a Native-American woman who disappeared in May 1990. Her body was discovered six months later. The murder currently remains unsolved, although a man was taken in for questioning for her death in 2007. Additionally, another pair of men are under suspicion.\n\nPoupart, a mother of two, was last seen on May 20, 1990 with two men after leaving a party in Lac du Flambeau, Wisconsin at 4:00 AM. According to one witness, she was apparently being forced into a vehicle. Six months after she went missing, on November 22, 1990, hunters discovered her remains in the Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest.\n\nAfter testifying in court, both men who she was last seen with denied abducting her, claiming that they were going to transport the woman home but instead dropped her off near a school. On November 22, 1990, her purse and identification were discovered underneath harvested trees. Her partial remains were subsequently found; she had apparently been sexually assaulted. Duct tape and plastic were also found, indicating that her killer or killers had attempted to hide the corpse.\n\nIn 2007, a man was given several hearings in court after being accused of involvement in Susan Poupart's death, but the charges were later dismissed after witnesses declined to appear, although several others reportedly testified. The two men seen with Poupart after the party are considered persons of interest along with the other man. Interviews about the case continued to be conducted between the three, but the men have given little to assist authorities.\n\nIn 2014, evidence was tested for DNA after advances with technology but did not unearth any new clues. Suspicion has continued to circulate through the local area about those who may be responsible for the murder, yet it is believed that most individuals have withheld their knowledge \"out of fear.\"\n\nA billboard along Highway 47 detailing the case was created in hopes of receiving tips on the case with some success. Investigators reported that they received information about the case as late as 2016, which helped the case somewhat.\n"}
{"id": "49216372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49216372", "title": "Norfolk headless body", "text": "Norfolk headless body\n\nThe Norfolk headless body case relates to a woman, believed to have been murdered, who died around the first or second week of August 1974. Her decapitated body was found near Swaffham, Norfolk, England, on 27 August 1974. Her head has never been found. The woman has never been identified; one theory that police are working on is that she was a prostitute known as \"The Duchess\" who worked the Great Yarmouth docks under this pseudonym, and who had disappeared in mid-1974.\n\nThe badly decomposed body of this woman was discovered on 27 August 1974 by a 19-year-old tractor driver named Andrew Head who had been out walking when he found this body on land belonging to Sir Peter Roberts. Head later recalled: \"I lifted one corner of the cover over the body and that was enough – I could see what it was. I went home and phoned the police.\" The body was discovered near a track leading to Brake Hill Farm, Brandon Road, within Cockley Cley. Combine harvesters were used to clear fields to allow them to be searched.\n\nPolice believe the woman died in either the first or second week of August 1974. She was estimated to be aged between 23 and 35 and 5 ft to 5 ft 2 in tall. Her hands and legs were bound to her body and she was wearing only a pink 1969 Marks & Spencer nightdress. She had been decapitated and her head has never been found. Her body was wrapped in a plastic sheet embossed with the words National Cash Registers. A collector in the United States identified the cover as being from a payroll machine and the exact model but the enquiry also established that thousands of the machines would have been made with many exported.\n\nWith her body was a length of rope that was unusual in being made of four strands, rather than the more usual three or five strands. An expert told police that the composition of the rope \"suggests it was made for use with agricultural machinery\". Police traced the place of manufacture of the rope to Dundee in Scotland but the firms that made that type of rope have since ceased trading.\n\nThe first murder enquiry into the death ran from 1974 to 1975 during which time police spoke to 15,000 people and took 700 statements. They completed 6,750 house to house questionnaires.\n\nIn 2008, Norfolk Police exhumed the woman's body under Operation Monton and took a DNA sample but were unable to identify the woman. They established that she was right-handed, had probably given birth, had consumed water found in Scotland and that fish and crabs formed an important part of her diet. They have issued several appeals for information. In 2008, the case was featured on the BBC's \"Crimewatch\" programme. In 2011, police made another appeal and identified 540 missing women as a result of fresh enquiries. In 2016, the case featured on television again and twice in the online version of BBC News.\n\nIn 2009, police began to examine serial killer Peter Tobin's links to Norfolk, to determine whether he could have been involved in the case, or in any other unsolved murders in the county.\n\nAfter the woman's remains were exhumed in 2008, samples of her toenails, hair and thigh bone were subjected to DNA and isotopic analysis. A full DNA profile of the victim was obtained but there was no match with any database, but the independent isotopic analyses carried out by professor Wolfram Meier-Augenstein and another scientist, which looks at the traces left in the body from the water consumed during a person's lifetime, both indicated that she was probably from the central Europe area including Denmark, Germany, Austria and northern Italy.\n\nFrom a second post-mortem examination of the woman, Norfolk police learned that her pelvic girdle had widened which happens during pregnancy to allow a woman to give birth, indicating that she had likely borne at least one child in her lifetime.\n\nFollowing a call from a former police officer, after the case featured on \"Crimewatch\" in 2008, Norfolk police are examining a theory that the woman is \"The Duchess\"; a prostitute who lived in Great Yarmouth docks and who disappeared in mid-1974 leaving all her possessions behind. \"The Duchess\" is believed to have arrived in the port town on the Esbjerg Ferry from Denmark. Her clients were often lorry drivers who travelled between Esbjerg and Yarmouth using the ferry and she also sometimes accompanied drivers on deliveries across England. This woman is understood to have worked as an escort around Great Yarmouth in the mid 1970s, with her clients often being truck drivers. She was aged in her late 20s or early 30s, hailed from Denmark, and regularly travelled between East Anglia and Denmark in 1973–74. She had lived for four or five months in the dockers' hut at the Ocean terminal, and is believed to have also spent time in custody, although contemporary records from this era have been destroyed, and thus the police still do not know this woman's real name. Furthermore, they cannot be sure that the dead woman was indeed \"The Duchess\".\n\n\n[Category:Female murder victims]]\n"}
{"id": "58027151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58027151", "title": "Oceanic Pro League", "text": "Oceanic Pro League\n\nOceanic Pro League (OPL) is a professional league for \"League of Legends\" teams from Australia and other countries in Oceania. Current Champions are the LG Dire Wolves. Oceanic Pro League has a YouTube Channel called the League of Legends Oceania this is the home of the OPL and OCS.\n\nThe league was announced in February 2015, along with two other competitions: the Challenger Championship and the Oceanic Open Ladder. The prize money for the first season of the OPL was $32,000, and the winners of the first split, the Chiefs, went to Istanbul for the International Wildcard Invitational 2015, the qualifying tournament for the Mid-Season Invitational 2015, where they placed fifth, missing the chance to play in the main stage of the competition.\n\nBefore the second split, the venue for the Grand Final was announced – Luna Park Sydney. Tickets for the event cost A$15, and the teams competed for a place in IWCT 2015. Champions of the second split, Chiefs, came second at IWCT 2015 and missed the 2015 League of Legends World Championship, losing in the final to the team Bangkok Titans from Thailand with a score of 1:3. In September of the same year, Team Immunity was suspended from participating in the PLA and other OPL competitions for a period of two years due to non-payment of player salaries.\n\nIn January 2016 it was announced that the Oceanic Challenger Series will become a league with a seven-week season and playoffs, and the round-robin stage of will take place in a best of three format, which will stretch the game week to three days. The venue for the grand final of the second split of 2016, where the IWCQ 2016 representative from Oceania will be chosen, was announced as the Courier Mail Piazza.\n\nThe winners of the first split of the second season of the Oceania league were the Chiefs, winning against Legacy in the grand final with a score of 3:2. The Chiefs were allowed to participate in third qualifiers for the international competition, but they failed to qualify for the main tournament, taking sixth place in the group stage with three wins and four defeats. The Chiefs and Legacy met again in the final of the second split, where the Chiefs were victorious with a score of 3:0.\n\n"}
{"id": "3348936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3348936", "title": "Po-ca-hon-tas, or The Gentle Savage", "text": "Po-ca-hon-tas, or The Gentle Savage\n\nPo-ca-hon-tas, or The Gentle Savage (subtitled \"An Original Aboriginal Erratic Operatic Semi-civilized and Demi-savage Extravaganza\") is a two-act musical burlesque by John Brougham (words) and James Gaspard Maeder (music). It debuted in 1855 and became an instant hit. \"Po-ca-hon-tas\" remained a staple of theatre troupes and blackface minstrel companies for the next 30 years, typically as an afterpiece.\n\nThe play parodies the Indian narratives that were popular at the time in the United States, particularly those featuring Indian heroines in the Noble Savage mould. The burlesque is usually credited with bringing the fad for Indian narratives to an end.\n\nThe plot very loosely follows events in the life of the historical Pocahontas. It begins with the arrival of white men led by John Smith, who says they are there to \"ravage the land and steal gold\". Smith and company raid the \"Tuscarora Finishing School of Emancipated Maidens\" and there meet Pocahontas. The remainder of the play revolves around the love triangle formed by Pocahontas, Smith, and John Rolfe, concluding with a card game between Smith and Rolfe for the hand of the Indian princess.\n\nHowever, Brougham's narrative merely adds some action to what is otherwise a collection of gags and puns rapidly delivered in the form of rhymed couplets. For example:\n\n\"Pocahontas rushing in heroineically distressed and dishevelled, followed by sailors.\n\nPOCAHONTAS\n\nHusband! for thee I \"scream!\"\n\nSMITH\n\n\"Lemon or Vanilla?\"\n\nPOCAHONTAS\n\nOh! \"Fly\" with me, and quit those vile dominions!\n\nSMITH\n\nHow \"can\" I fly, beloved, with these pinions?\n\nMany of these jokes hinge upon the play's cavalier approach to historical accuracy. For example, in a scene where Smith attempts to win the affections of the Native American princess, she denies him with an appeal to historian George Bancroft:\n\nPOCAHONTAS\n\nStop! One doubt within my heart arises!\nA great historian before us stands,\n\"Bancroft\" himself, you know, forbids the \"banns!\"\n\nSMITH\n\n\"Bancroft\" be \"banished\" from your memory's shelf,\nfor spite of \"fact\", I'll marry you myself.\n\nEven the stage directions are written for farce. Upon one entrance of Pocahontas, \"her overburdened soul bursts forth in melody.\" Other directions parody Italian opera: \"GRAND SCENA COMPLICATO, In the Anglo-Italiano Style\".\n\nMusical numbers to the tunes of popular songs punctuate the jokes. Some of these reiterate the play's theme of the white man despoiling virgin America:\n\nTheatre companies and orchestra leaders took great liberties with the music, often substituting popular songs with little or no connection to the plot. For an 1860 staging in New Orleans, for example, Mrs. John Wood performed \"Dixie\" for a concluding scene featuring a Zouave march.\n\nThis prevalent success of Brougham upon the genre of American burlesque sits mainly on his choice to take a spin-off of such a specific American topic. Po-Ca-Hon-Tas appeared to surpass the usual guidelines of burlesque, lampooning up-to-the-minute dramatic formulas and characters. Po-Ca-Hon-Tas was also “specifically linked to the social and cultural transformations that were taking place in America” during this nineteenth century period. In the heat of century, there was a revolution of sorts happening between the Native Americans and the United States settlers due to the unrest concerning territory and authority. There were some groundbreaking Americans who believed that Indians could embody “what once had been, or yet could be, if only America’s overpowering drive to conquer and contaminate could be reined in”, but regardless of this view, the culture of the Native Americans took on a considerable amount of damage over the course of the nineteenth century. After winning independence from England in 1776, the new United States’ government began taking possession of Indian territories that lay west of the Appalachian Mountains, even though the United States did not yet manifest past that frontier. From this seizure on, there was a rapid fire of treaties and court cases between the American government and the Indian nations. Treaties were considered “legal … agreements between two legitimate governments” – in this case, the United States and an Indian Nation. Whenever an Indian Nation would sign a treaty, it consented to “give the federal government some or all of its land, as well as some or all of its sovereign powers” in exchange for the government’s “protection, benefits, and rights” to the Native people. Almost none of these agreements ended well for the Natives, as “Indians saw their lands greatly diminished between 1763 and 1889” and eventually all Natives were forced to relocate to relatively minuscule Indian reservations. Not only did the United States government greatly impose on the Indian’s geographical boundaries, but their cultural boundaries as well. The newly created and crammed reservations became a hub for government officials to “civilize Indians” and “prepare them for inclusion into the U.S. polity” – a concept that Pocahontas’ story specifically highlights. In the American perspective, Pocahontas’ conversion to English culture presented the possibility of the “European’s fulfilling their hopes for commercial, religious, and political gains” among the Natives – the idea that drove the condescension and controversy of the time.\n\nIn the early 19th century, there was a huge infatuation with Indians, especially Pocahontas, as her story was a prime example of Jacksonian democracy: ‘expansion (nationalism), antimonopoly (egalitarianism) and white supremacy’ . The Jacksonian democracy, an era that defined American beliefs in the early 1800s supported the “Manifest Destiny” (1840), which extended the belief that the United States should extend from the Pacific to the Atlantic coast. Jackson battled Congress in order to pass his Indian Removal Act (1830), which would authorize removal of Native Americans west of the Mississippi River in order to increase United States territory. This only added to American’s practice of white supremacy and superiority over inferior races. There was pride in this idea of the eventual submission of the Indians to the whites’ colonizing/ ‘civilizing’ power. People idealized this story as proof that they could change the Indians and win them over to the white side, the “right side.” Pocahontas was this legendary figure, the famous Indian Princess who willingly renounced her own people and culture, converted to Christianity, and married the English colonizer Celebrating these ideas is to inadvertently suppress Indian culture and present it in an inferior to the new “White American” culture. John Brougham’s burlesque deeply goes against the ideals of “Jacksonian democracy” by portraying Pocahontas as a satire.\n\n However, before all of this was John Brougham himself. Born in Dublin, Ireland in 1810, Brougham was educated at Trinity College to be a surgeon, but he expended much of his college career partaking in substandard theatre endeavors. He made his true theatrical debut in London in 1830 playing six characters in the play Tom and Jerry. Being the well-rounded theatre man he was, Brougham also became the manager of the Lyceum Theatre in 1840, where he wrote several of his lighter burlesques. Finally in 1842, he made the fateful move to the United States, where he quickly joined in on the theatre scene – managing first the Niblo’s Garden, and then opening his own namesake lyceum in 1850, Brougham’s Lyceum. It was here that Po-Ca-Hon-Tas was produced and performed originally. Despite his seemingly successful managing career, theatrical business was not Brougham’s forte, and he lost his beloved Lyceum to comrade James Wallack, who proceeded to rename the theatre to Wallack's Lyceum. In spite of this, Brougham stayed in the same location and was reported to have been paid $250 a week by Wallack, which according to Moody, in Dramas from the American Theatre, was “the largest salary then paid any artist in a regular New York company.” Brougham was noted to have said that working at Wallack’s Theatre was the “brightest part of his life.” Nevertheless, Brougham did manage to write “no fewer than 126 plays, including burlesques, adaptations, Gothic melodramas, tear-jerkers, Irish plays, and social satire.\" Brougham was one of the first to bring a bit of the action of his plays into the auditorium. “Brougham was not a behind-the-proscenium, peephole-stage, realistic actor.” According to Moody, “He was genial, jovial, hearty, handsome, immensely popular, dashing, clever, and always stylishly dressed.” Many people attended the theatre just to hear his impromptu “before-the-curtain” speeches. He ignored the critic’s protests of “impropriety” and gave the audience what they wanted. “Few actors have received the personal acclaim accorded Brougham.” Fulfilling his American dream as both an actor and a dramatist, Brougham earned the “enthusiastic applause of American audiences, the praise of American critics, and the enviable title of America’s Aristophanes.”\n\nTheatre. New York: Oxford UP. 96+.\n"}
{"id": "6166516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6166516", "title": "Poker run", "text": "Poker run\n\nA poker run is an organized event where participants, usually using motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, boats, snowmobiles, horses, on foot or other means of transportation, must visit five to seven checkpoints, drawing a playing card at each one. The object is to have the best poker hand at the end of the run. Having the best hand and winning is purely a matter of chance. The event has a time limit, however the individual participants are not timed.\n\nAccording to the Guinness Book of World Records, the record for the largest event was set in 2009 with 2,136 motorcyclists benefiting the Fallen Firefighter Survivors Foundation (FFSF).\n\nThe record for the largest single venue event was set in 2012, with 586 motorcyclists raising money for Prostate Cancer research in Ottawa, Canada.\n\nPoker runs usually require a fee to enter and some for each additional hand; in some events a small part of the fee may go to funding the event, including the prizes, while the rest goes to the event's charity recipient or club treasury. In charity events usually most, if not all of the funds goes to the selected charity. Prizes, such as money, plaques, or merchandise donated by commercial sponsors of the event, are awarded for the best hand. Some runs will award smaller awards for lower hands or even the lowest hand.\n\nEach checkpoint might offer food or entertainment, either covered by the entry fee or at additional cost. Each participant is responsible to maintain the integrity of their hand during the run. Hands are usually written down or marked with punched holes on a ticket, rather than assembled from actual cards given to the riders. The only requirement is that riders arrive at the final checkpoint by the time prizes are awarded, usually near the end of the day, typically at a party with food and refreshments. It might be required that participants collect all of the requisite number of cards, five or seven, or they might be allowed to miss checkpoints and use a hand with fewer cards, though the odds of a winning hand are much lower.\n\nAlthough most events are on motorcycles, off-road vehicles, boats, or horses, events involving small aircraft, ATVs, bicycles, golf carts, snowmobiles, skateboards, running, canoeing and kayaking, and geocaching have been held.\nA dice run is one variation, where instead of collecting cards, participants roll dice at each stop. The object is to have the highest score as determined by the sum of the dice rolls.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5142936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5142936", "title": "Quagga Project", "text": "Quagga Project\n\nThe Quagga Project is an attempt by a group in South Africa to use selective breeding to achieve a breeding lineage of plains zebra (\"Equus quagga\") which optically resemble the extinct quagga (\"Equus quagga quagga\").\n\nIn 1955, Lutz Heck suggested in his book \"\" that careful selective breeding with the plains zebra could produce an animal resembling the extinct quagga: a zebra with reduced striping and a brownish basic colour. In 1971, Reinhold Rau visited various museums in Europe to examine the quagga specimens in their collections and decided to attempt to re-breed the quagga. Rau later contacted several zoologists and park authorities, but they were on the whole negative because the quagga has left no living descendants, and thus the genetic composition of this animal is not present in living zebras. Rau did not abandon his re-breeding proposal, as he considered the quagga to be a subspecies of the plains zebra. In 1980, molecular studies of mitochondrial DNA of a quagga indicated that it was indeed a subspecies of the plains zebra.\n\nAfter the DNA examination results appeared in publications from 1984 onward, gradually a more positive attitude was taken towards the quagga re-breeding proposal. In March 1986, the project committee was formed after influential persons became involved. During March 1987, nine zebras were selected and captured at the Etosha National Park in Namibia. On 24 April 1987, these zebras were brought to the specially constructed breeding camp complex at the Nature Conservation farm \"Vrolijkheid\" near Robertson, South Africa. This marked the start of the quagga re-breeding project.\n\nAdditional zebras were selected for the lightness of their stripes and incorporated into the project to increase the rate at which the zebras lost their stripes. Some of the zebras of the project that failed to develop the more quagga-like physical traits were released into the Addo Elephant National Park. \n\nAfter the number of zebras increased, the Quagga Project had to abandon the \"Vrolijkheid\" farm. In October 1992, six zebras were moved to land that had sufficient natural grazing. This would reduce the cost of feeding. In 1993, the remaining zebras were moved to two additional sites. On 29 June 2000, the Quagga Project Association, represented by its chairman Dr. Mike Cluver and South African National Parks by its CEO Mavuso Msimang, signed a co-operation agreement. This agreement changed the Quagga Project from a private initiative to an officially recognised and logistically supported project.\n\nThe Project's first foal was born on 9 December 1988. On 20 January 2005, Henry (a foal considered to be the first quagga-like individual because of a visible reduced striping) was born. The first 5th generation foal was born in December 2013. Those individuals with the most reduced stripe patterns are called \"Rau quagga\" by the people of the project. \n\nIn March 2016 The Quagga Project listed 116 animals in 10 locations, some of which are close to Cape Town. Of the 116 animals, currently six individuals show a strongly reduced stripe pattern.\nThe goal is to have a population of about 50 such zebras and move them to a protected area within their former natural habitat. The current individuals with a stripe pattern resembling the quagga are named Henry, Freddy, DJ14, Nina J, FD15, and Khumba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47144805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47144805", "title": "Shukrayaan-1", "text": "Shukrayaan-1\n\nShukrayaan-1 (\"Venus craft\") is a proposed orbiter to Venus by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to study the surface and atmosphere of Venus. \n\nFunds were released to complete preliminary studies, and solicitations for instruments have been announced. If fully funded, it would be launched some time after the Mars Orbiter Mission 2 in the early 2020s. The orbiter, depending on its final configuration, would have a science payload capability of approximately 100 kg with 500 W available power. The initial elliptical orbit around Venus is expected to have 500 km at periapsis and 60,000 km at apoapsis.\n\nBased on the success of \"Chandrayaan\" and the Mars Orbiter Mission, ISRO has been studying the feasibility of future interplanetary missions to Mars and Venus, the closest planetary neighbours to Earth. The mission concept to Venus was first presented at a Tirupati space meet in 2012. The Government of India, in its budget for 2017–18 gave the Department of Space a 23% increase. Under the space sciences section, the budget mentions provisions \"for Mars Orbiter Mission II and Mission to Venus\", and following the 2017–18 request for grants, it was authorized to complete preliminary studies. In year 2016-17 ISRO collaborated with JAXA to study Venusian atmosphere using signals from Venus orbiter mission Akatsuki in a radio occultation experiment. \n\nThe three broad research areas of interest for this mission include surface/subsurface features and re-surfacing processes; second: study the atmospheric chemistry, dynamics and compositional variations, and third: study the atmospheric interaction with solar radiation and solar wind.\n\nOn 19 April 2017, ISRO made an 'Announcement of Opportunity' (AO) seeking science payload proposals from Indian academia based on broad mission specifications. As of 2017, the Venus mission is in the study phase and ISRO has not sought the Indian government's full approval.\n\nOn 6 November 2018, ISRO made another 'Announcement of Opportunity' inviting payload proposals from the international scientific community. The available science payload capacity was revised to 100 kg from 175 kg mentioned in first AO.\n\nThe space agencies of India (ISRO) and France (CNES) are holding discussions to collaborate on this mission and jointly develop autonomous navigation and aerobraking technologies.\n\nIn addition, French astrophysicist Jacques Blamont with his experience from the Vega program, expressed his interest to U R Rao to use inflated balloons to help study the Venusian atmosphere. Just like during the Vega missions, these instrumented balloons could be deployed from an orbiter and take prolonged observations while floating in the relatively mild upper atmosphere of the planet. \n\nISRO accepted the proposal and would be using a balloon probe carrying payload to study the Venusian atmosphere at altitude.\n\nThe science payload would have a mass of and will have instruments from India and other countries.\n\nThe pre-selected proposals from India are listed below. Some of these will be selected to fly:\n"}
{"id": "5177476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5177476", "title": "Stouthrief", "text": "Stouthrief\n\nStouthrief (alternatively stouthreif) is the Scottish criminal offence of use or threat of violence against a householder who defends themselves during a housebreaking; it is additional to any associated robbery offence.\n\nIt is to be distinguished from the offence of Hamesucken which is breaking into the home of an individual and assaulting him where that is the initial purpose. Both are offences in Common Law, typically to be found in the description of the offences libelled in court relative to a single incident rather than in the usually less-detailed newspaper reports of such a trial.\n\nSection 285 (\"Certain crimes not to be tried in inferior courts\") of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1975 prevented prosecution for stouthrief in a court of summary jurisdiction other than a Sheriff Court.\n\nAlthough rarely used, prosecutions for Hamesucken were brought in 2011 and 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "55866254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55866254", "title": "Team Miles", "text": "Team Miles\n\nTeam Miles is a nanosatellite of the 6-Unit CubeSat format that will demonstrate navigation in deep space using innovative plasma thrusters. It will also test a software-defined radio for communications from about 4 million kilometers from Earth.\n\n\"Team Miles\" will be one of thirteen CubeSats to be carried with the Orion EM-1 mission into a heliocentric orbit in cislunar space on the maiden flight of the Space Launch System, scheduled to launch in 2019.\n\nThe spacecraft, a 6-Unit CubeSat —measuring 10×20×30 cm— was designed and is being developed by a non-profit group of fifteen citizen scientists and engineers (Fluid and Reason, LLC) based at Tampa, Florida. Since the \"Team Miles\" won the first place at CubeQuest Challenge for the selection process, Fluid and Reason, LLC stroke partnerships and became Miles Space, a commercial endeavor to further develop the technology and intellectual property that has come out of the design process.\n\nWesley Faler, who leads Fluid and Reason, LLC., is the inventor of the ion thruster to be used, which he calls ConstantQ Model H. It is a form of electric propulsion for spacecraft. The engine is a hybrid plasma and laser thruster that uses ionized iodine as propellant.\n\nThe Model H system includes 4 thruster heads which are canted, allowing for both primary propulsion and attitude control (orientation) without the use of moving parts. The goal within the CubeQest Challenge is to travel 4 million kilometers, but the team will attempt to go as far as 96 million kilometers before the end of the mission.\n\n"}
{"id": "28412214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28412214", "title": "Teatro Metastasio", "text": "Teatro Metastasio\n\nThe Teatro Metastasio is a theatre located in Prato, Italy. Designed by architect Luigi De Cambray Digny, construction of the theatre began in March 1829. The inaugural performance of theatre was of Gioachino Rossini's \"Aureliano in Palmira\" on 8 October 1830. It remains the city of Prato's main venue for operas, plays, and concerts. \n\n"}
{"id": "21117673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21117673", "title": "Terry's Theatre", "text": "Terry's Theatre\n\nTerry's Theatre was a West End theatre in the Strand, in the City of Westminster, London. Built in 1887, it became a cinema in 1910 before being demolished in 1923.\n\nThe theatre was built in 1887, near Fountain's Court, on the site of a former public house, the Old Coal Hole, and was designed by Walter Emden for the publican, Charles Wilmot and a Dr Web. The theatre was built to accommodate 800, seated in pit and stalls, balcony and a dress circle. Fountain's Court was named for 'Fountain's Tavern', where the Fountain Club met – formed by Robert Walpole's political opponents. In 1826, Edmund Kean, the actor, founded a late supper club here, known as the 'Wolf Club' for carousing. It ran until the 1850s, introducing entertainments similar to Evans Music-and-Supper Rooms, in nearby Covent Garden.\n\nEdward Terry, as owner-manager, opened the theatre on 17 October 1887, with the farce \"The Churchwarden\", followed by \"The Woman Hater\". Terry had been the leading comedian of the Royal Strand Theatre and then starred in John Hollingshead's company at the Gaiety before entering theatre management. He achieved considerable success with his own production of Arthur Wing Pinero's \"Sweet Lavender\", which opened at Terry's Theatre on 21 March 1888 and ran for 683 performances, producing a £20,000 profit. The play was quickly revived. Its cast included: Terry, Brandon Thomas, Maude Millett and Carlotta Addison.\n\nThomas Hardy's \"The Three Wayfarers\" premièred at the theatre on 3 June 1893 with four other one act plays on the bill. This was typical of theatres of the time, offering 3–4 one-act plays commencing at 7:45pm, and running until 11pm. Many of the principal parts would be taken by Terry, himself, with other members of a permanent company sharing the other roles. Pinero also wrote \"In Chancery\" (1890) and \"The Times\" (1892) for the theatre. Law's farce \"The New Boy\" played in 1894.\n\nIn 1894, Edward Laurillard became manager of the theatre, producing \"King Kodak\", opening on 30 April 1894, with music by Alfred Plumpton and lyrics by Arthur Branscombe and a score by Walter Slaughter. \"Little Christopher Columbus\" transferred to the theatre in 1894. Stephens and Yardley's \"The Passport\" played at the theatre in 1895. Madeline Ryley's \"Jedbury Junior\" playec in 1896. W. H. Griffiths became manager, and there was a further success for Slaughter, with the opening of \"The French Maid\", on 24 April 1897, transferring the following year to the Vaudeville Theatre and running for a total of 480 performances, with Louie Pounds in the title role, before transferring to New York. During the Christmas season, 1897–98, a series of matinees consisting of short musicals for children by Basil Hood and Walter Slaughter played with much success at the theatre.\n\nWith Frederick Mouillot installed as manager, \"My Lady Molly\", a comic opera, ran for 342 performances between 14 March 1903–16 January 1904. \"Ib and Little Christina\" was revived at the theatre for short runs in both 1903 and 1904. \nThe theatre was remodelled by Frank Matcham in 1905, and in 1906 H. A. Jones' comedy \"The Heroic Stubs\" premièred. After further changes to the building, it was reopened on 24 October 1910 as the \"Grand Casino\" cinema, a part of the \"Bey Circuit\". It was finally demolished in 1923 to facilitate a road widening scheme. An office block, named \"Norman House\" stands on the site, with shops below. The modern Coal Hole public house stands near, but not on, the former site of the theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19961573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19961573", "title": "Thoracic aorta injury", "text": "Thoracic aorta injury\n\nInjury of the thoracic aorta refers to any injury which affects the portion of the aorta which lies within the chest cavity. Injuries of the thoracic aorta are usually the result of physical trauma; however, they can also be the result of a pathological process. The main causes of this injury are deceleration (such as a car accident) and crush injuries.\n\nInjuries to the aorta are usually the result of trauma, such as deceleration and crush injuries. Deceleration injuries almost always occur during high speed impacts, such as those in motor vehicle crashes and falls from a substantial height. Several mechanical processes can occur and are reflected in the injury itself. A more recently proposed mechanism is that the aorta can be compressed between bony structures (such as the manubrium, clavicle, and first rib) and the spine. In the ascending aorta (the portion of the aorta which is almost vertical), one mechanism of injury is torsion (a two-way twisting).\n\nThere are inconsistencies in the terminology of aortic injury. There are several terms which are interchangeably used to describe injury to the aorta such as \"tear\", \"laceration\", \"transection\", and \"rupture\". \"Laceration\" is used as a term for the consequence of a tear, whereas a \"transection\" is a section across an axis or cross section. For all intents and purposes, the latter is used when a tear occurs across all or nearly all of the circumference of the aorta. \"Rupture\" is defined as a forcible disruption of tissue. Some disagree with the usage of \"rupture\" as they believe it implies that a tear is incompatible with life; however, the term accurately gauges the severity of tears in the aorta. A rupture can be either complete or partial, and can be classified further by the position of the tear.\n"}
{"id": "22665741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22665741", "title": "Titanic (musical)", "text": "Titanic (musical)\n\nTitanic is a musical with music and lyrics by Maury Yeston and a book by Peter Stone that opened on Broadway in 1997. It swept the 1997 musical Tony Awards winning all five it was nominated for including the award for Best Musical and Best Score (Yeston's second for both). \"Titanic\" is set on the ocean liner RMS \"Titanic\" which sank on its maiden voyage on April 15, 1912.\n\nThe discovery of the wreck of the RMS \"Titanic\" in 1985 attracted Yeston's interest in writing a musical about the famous disaster. \"What drew me to the project was the positive aspects of what the ship represented – 1) humankind's striving after great artistic works and similar technological feats, despite the possibility of tragic failure, and 2) the dreams of the passengers on board: 3rd Class, to immigrate to America for a better life; 2nd Class, to live a leisured lifestyle in imitation of the upper classes; 1st Class, to maintain their privileged positions forever. The collision with the iceberg dashed all of these dreams simultaneously, and the subsequent transformation of character of the passengers and crew had, it seemed to me, the potential for great emotional and musical expression onstage.\"\n\nStone and Yeston knew that the idea was an unusual subject for a musical. \"I think if you don't have that kind of daring damn-the-torpedoes, you shouldn't be in this business. It's the safe sounding shows that often don't do well. You have to dare greatly, and I really want to stretch the bounds of the kind of expression in musical theater,\" Yeston explained. Yeston saw the story as unique to turn-of-the-century British culture, with its rigid social class system and its romanticization of progress through technology. \"In order to depict that on the stage, because this is really a very English show, I knew I would have to have a color similar to the one found in the music of the great composers at that time, like Elgar or Vaughan Williams; this was for me an opportunity to bring in the musical theater an element of the symphonic tradition that I think we really haven't had before. That was very exciting.\"\n\nThe high cost of \"Titanic\"′s set made it impossible for the show to have traditional out of town tryouts. \"Titanic\"′s previews began at Broadway's Lunt-Fontanne Theatre in 1997 with various technical troubles which were overcome by opening night, initially receiving mixed to positive reviews. \"The New Yorker\"′s was the first of numerous later unqualified raves: \"It seemed a foregone conclusion that the show would be a failure; a musical about history's most tragic maiden voyage, in which fifteen hundred people lost their lives, was obviously preposterous... Astonishingly, \"Titanic\" manages to be grave and entertaining, somber and joyful; little by little you realize that you are in the presence of a genuine addition to American musical theatre.\"\n\nIt ran 804 performances initially closing at a loss, though winning five Tony Awards (including Best Musical), and the advocacy of Rosie O'Donnell. With a Grammy Award nominated cast album, over the next twenty years the show received hundreds of professional and amateur productions worldwide and has become a national and international staple of musical theater.\n\n\"Titanic\" opened on April 23, 1997 at the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre and ran for 804 performances and 27 previews, closing on March 21, 1999. Directed by Richard Jones with choreography by Lynne Taylor-Corbett, the cast included John Cunningham, David Garrison, Larry Keith, Alma Cuervo, Michael Cerveris, Victoria Clark, Don Stephenson, and Brian d'Arcy James. Danny Burstein was a cast replacement. The set encompassed three levels to help form the impression of the size of the ship. The lobby of the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre was redecorated for the production: the complete passenger list of the \"Titanic\" was painted on the walls, noting those who ultimately survived the disaster.\n\nOrchestrator Jonathan Tunick won the first Tony Award for Best Orchestrations for his work on the score. The show received five Tony nominations, winning in all five categories, though the director, Richard Jones, was not nominated, nor were any of the performers.\n\nStewart Laing was responsible for both the costume design and the scenic design, for which he won a Tony Award for Best Scenic Design. The wardrobe is on display at the Costume World Broadway Collection in Pompano Beach, Florida. Paul Gallo was responsible for the lighting design. Steve Canyon Kennedy was responsible for the sound design.\n\nThe production toured the United States after closing on Broadway, beginning in January 1999 at the Ahmanson Theatre in Los Angeles, with a cast that featured Brian d'Arcy James (Los Angeles only), Marcus Chait, and William Parry. There were also several subsequent tours with non-Equity performers.\n\nIn 2012 original Broadway cast member Don Stephenson, who created the part of Charles Clarke, developed a new chamber version of \"Titanic\" in collaboration with choreographer Liza Gennaro. This scaled down production used 20 actors playing all of the roles, an abstract set design, projections of the actual ship and passengers, and new orchestrations designed to make the score sound as if it was being played by the ships band. Material that had been previously cut from the original Broadway production was put back into the show, and existing material was reordered and reassigned. This new intimate version of \"Titanic\" opened in July 2012 at The Hangar Theatre. The production was nominated for 11 BroadwayWorld Awards which included Best Musical, Best Director, Best Choreographer, and Best Ensemble performance. Stephenson subsequently remounted this production in hopes of an eventual Broadway revival at Westchester Broadway Theatre in Elmsford, New York in January 2014..\n\nThe US regional theater premier of the ensemble version of the show was on October 26, 2014 at The Griffin Theatre Company in Chicago, directed by Scott Weinstein with music direction by Elizabeth Doran and choreography by Sawyer Smith. It had its amateur premier at Avon Players in Rochester Hills, Michigan on September 8, 2017.\n\nIn February 2014 most of the original Broadway cast reunited for a staged concert of the musical at Lincoln Center's Avery Fisher Hall. This concert was produced by Manhattan Concert Productions and featured a chorus of 200 singers from across the country. It was conducted by original musical director, music supervisor, and conductor Kevin Stites, choreographed by Liza Gennaro, and directed by Don Stephenson.\n\nArlington, Virginia's Signature Theatre presented \"Titanic\" from December 13, 2016 to January 29, 2017. “I've always loved the musical \"Titanic\" and I have felt that Signature should reinvent this musical for our audiences in an exciting new way,” said the company's artistic director Eric Schaeffer in an article about the production.\n\nA Dutch touring production (European premiere) opened on 23 September 2001 in Royal Theatre Carre, Amsterdam. It was also highly successful, and produced an original cast recording (sung in Dutch) as a companion to the original Broadway cast recording on RCA Records. On 7 December 2002, a German production opened in Hamburg, a copy of the Dutch production. A cast recording was made in German. A new song was written for the German production, \"Drei Tage\" (Three Days), but the song was not included on cast album. It was recorded and released on a German karaoke CD called \"Professional Playbacks: Showtunes Vol. 1\".\n\nOn May 17, 2005 the Belfast Operatic Company premiered the show in Ireland in the Grand Opera House, Belfast, Northern Ireland. The Belfast Operatic Company performed the show again, in the Grand Opera House, Belfast, on the week the ship sailed, from 10 April to 14 April 2012, with a special performance beginning at 11:40 pm on the Saturday night, the time which the ship hit the iceberg. Composer Maury Yeston attended two performances of the show, having flown in from New York.\n\nThe show's Canadian Premiere was presented in Toronto, by the Toronto Civic Light Opera in February 2006, directed by Joe Cascone, in a newly imagined staging which dispensed with the \"slanted set\" concept of the original production. This production featured Bob Deutsch as Captain Smith, David Haines as J. Bruce Ismay, and Cory Doran as Barrett. Staged with full orchestra and 40-member cast, the run was extended twice due to popular demand.\n\nThe Australian production starring Nick Tate as Captain Smith debuted in October 2006. The same production made its UK premiere at York Theatre Royal, and its London premiere at the Gordon Craig Theatre in Stevenage.\n\nA Japanese engagement played from January to February 2007.\n\nThe premiere in Wales was performed 15–20 November 2004 at the Gwyn Hall by Neath Amateur Operatic Society. The musical returned to Wales from 11–14 April 2012 by Spotlight Theatre Company in the Parc and Dare Hall. Directed by Pat Evans, musical direction by Geraint Bessant, the performance included a special gala event on the 14th April to mark 100 years to the day the tragedy struck. The London Premiere was presented by West Wickham Operatic Society between 21–26 November 2006 at The Churchill Theatre Bromley.\n\nOn February 9, 2008, Ballinrobe Musical Society, under the direction of Peter Kennedy, performed the first ever production to take place in the Republic of Ireland. The show ran from 9 to 16 February. Michael Coen played Captain Edward Smith.\n\nThere were French productions in Belgium in the cities of Liege and Charleroi by Stéphane Laporte and Jean-Louis Grinda from 2000 to 2006. The show premiered in Finland on 29 March 2008 in Seinäjoki City Theatre.\n\nOn April 26, 2010, the musical company Scenario premiered the show in Kolbotn, Norway. The show ran from the 26th of April to the 12th of May.\n\nIn 2016, a revival of the musical was mounted at Chapel Off Chapel in Melbourne, Australia. The production was based on the ensemble version of the musical, and played for an eighteen night engagement.\n\nA production in Seoul Korea opened in November 2017, produced by OD Productions.\n\n\"Titanic\" has been translated into seven languages: Japanese, French, Dutch, German, Finnish and Norwegian, Korean, and a Danish version premiered in the Autumn of 2017.\n\nAct 1\n\n\"Titanic\"'s designer, Thomas Andrews marvels at the wondrous things mankind has accomplished (\"In Every Age\"); with the R.M.S. \"Titanic\" becoming the newest feat once thought impossible. Stoker Fred Barrett arrives at the dock in Southampton, amazed by the feat of engineering (\"How Did They Build \"Titanic\"?\"). He is joined by Lookout Frederick Fleet and wireless telegraph operator Harold Bride, and they gaze in awe at the \"Ship of Dreams\" (\"There She Is\") as the crew arrives. J. Bruce Ismay, Andrews, and Captain E. J. Smith congratulate each other on being the owner, designer, and captain of \"The Largest Moving Object\" in the world. The ship's passengers arrive; the Third and Second Class passengers feel privileged to be aboard the maiden voyage of the grandest ship ever to sail (\"I Must Get on that Ship\"). The First Class passengers arrive; their names and achievements are narrated by Second Class passenger Alice Beane (\"First Class Roster\"). The \"Titanic\" sets sail, and the assembled company wishes her a safe crossing (\"Godspeed Titanic\").\n\nNow at sea, Ismay arrives on the bridge to inform Smith that he plans for the \"Titanic\" to arrive in New York on Tuesday afternoon rather than Wednesday morning, while Andrews insists that the maiden voyage be a safe one. As they've cleared land, Smith allows her speed to be increased slightly. Barrett, in the boiler room, disagrees with the order on such a new ship, but nonetheless complies (\"Barrett's Song\").\n\nAs the voyage continues, Ismay demands increasingly more speed, so the ship can build an impressive reputation. Smith complies despite Andrews' objections and warnings of icebergs in their course. Smith hails 1st Officer Murdoch's qualities, deeming him ready to assume a command of his own, but Murdoch feels he is not yet ready to handle the responsibilities of the job (\"To Be a Captain\").\n\nIn Second Class, Alice Beane longs for the grandeur that is First Class, while her husband Edgar, a successful hardware store owner, is content with their station. Charles Clarke, who is traveling to America to become a journalist, is accompanied by his fiancee Caroline Neville. Caroline's father doesn't approve of the engagement, so they are eloping to America. In First Class, the titans of industry recount the accomplishments that man has recently achieved, with the \"Titanic\" becoming the pinnacle. (\"What a Remarkable Age this Is!\"). In steerage, three Irish lasses—each named Kate—dream with the rest of Third Class of the opportunities that await them in America (\"Lady's Maid\"). Kate McGowan is smitten with a young man traveling with them, Jim Farrell.\n\nIn the wireless room, Bride is overwhelmed by the passenger's personal messages to be sent, though he finds time to handle Barrett's proposal to his girlfriend (\"The Proposal/The Night Was Alive\").\n\nOn Sunday morning, the First Class attends religious services (\"God Lift Me Up\"), then dances on deck to \"The Latest Rag\". Alice Beane has managed to infiltrate their ranks, though she is turned away several times by an alert steward. Edgar finds her and the two argue over their lifestyle choices (\"I Have Danced\"). As evening draws near, the temperature drops, and lookout Fleet finds the weather conditions difficult for spotting icebergs (\"No Moon\"). On deck, Kate McGowan tells Farrell that she needs to marry as she is carrying the child of a married man, and he accepts. Elderly passengers Isidor and Ida Straus discuss their plans for the years to come while Charlotte Drake Cardoza scandalizes the First Class men by joining them for cards in the First Class Smoke Room (\"Autumn\").\n\nSuddenly, Fleet spots an iceberg and alerts the bridge. Murdoch, who's the senior officer on the bridge, takes evasive action, but the \"Titanic\" strikes the iceberg.\n\nAct 2\n\nThe stewards begin waking the confused passengers, while they themselves do not have much information (\"Wake Up, Wake Up\"). Capt. Smith arrives on the bridge and is briefed on the situation. He orders all passengers to put on life vests, for Bride to begin sending distress messages, and for Andrews to inspect the damage. Andrews informs Smith and Ismay that the damage inflicted is more than the ship is designed to endure and that the ship will sink, reminding them that there are only enough lifeboats for less than half of the people aboard.\n\nIn the First Class Dining Salon, passengers refuse to believe that anything is wrong with the ship and are annoyed at being awakened in the middle of the night (\"Dressed in Your Pyjamas in the Grand Salon\"). Crew members are assuring them that there is no reason to panic. No one is aware of the ship's growing peril until a food cart rolls on its own, showing the ship's growing tilt. All the passengers and crew members quickly hurry to the lifeboats.\n\nIn Third Class, the three Kates and Farrell attempt to find a way up to boat deck, but are unable to until they are assisted by Barrett (\"The Staircase\"). Smith arrives in the radio room where Bride informs him that only the \"Carpathia\" is near enough to help, but is unable to arrive until after the \"Titanic\" has sunk. Smith, Andrews, and Ismay argue over responsibility for the disaster (\"The Blame\").\n\nWomen and children are ordered into the lifeboats, while the men are forced to stay behind (\"To the Lifeboats\"). Murdoch orders Fleet and Barrett into the last lifeboat to help man the oars, but Barrett doesn't know how to row a boat and lets Farrell, who can row, into the boat instead. Barrett bids farewell to his absent girlfriend while the rest of the passengers do the same to their loved ones (\"We'll Meet Tomorrow\").\n\nThe bellboy tells the captain that all the life boats have been launched, and that those remaining aboard accept their fate. Murdoch tells the Captain that he takes full responsibility for the accident, but Smith forgives him and then laments on how he had gone his entire career without experiencing any accident. Henry Etches, the first class steward, says a prayer for the ship's and passenger's safetyl (\"To Be A Captain\" (Reprise)). Isidor and Ida Straus (Ida had refused to leave her husband behind) affirm their long-lasting love for one another (\"Still\"). As the Captain declares the ship officially lost, Andrews—life vest unworn—remains in the first-class smoking room, obsessing over the ship's plans. He visualizes redesigning her as well as the final moments of the souls left aboard as the ship sinks beneath the waves (\"Mr. Andrews' Vision\").\n\nIn the early hours of the morning, the survivors are rescued by the \"Carpathia\". Many of them recount the tragedy of the \"Titanic\", mourning the loss of people and ship. Bride and Ismay, along with several of the survivors, discuss the possibilities that could have prevented the disaster (\"The Foundering\"). The survivors express hope that they will one day be reunited with their lost loved ones and abandoned dreams (\"In Every Age/Finale\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39272526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39272526", "title": "Virgen Blanca Festivities", "text": "Virgen Blanca Festivities\n\nThe Fiestas de la Virgen Blanca (in Basque: Andre Maria Zuriaren Jaiak) have been celebrated every year, since 1884. It is held on 5 August, but the celebrations begin the day before, on the 4th, and end on 9 August it honours the patron saint of the city, and features a programme of special events, activities and free open-air concerts.\n\nThe actual festivity starts at six o'clock in the afternoon with the \"txupinazo\" and Celedon's (a rag doll with an umbrella) descent. Once Celedón reaches a balcony in the square, it is replaced by a human Celedón who then crosses the square on foot with some difficulty amongst the crowds. On arriving to the balcony of the Church of San Miguel, Celedón greets the crowds below and wishes everyone a happy celebration. On the morning of 5 August, the Blusas and the Neskak offer flowers to the \"Virgen Blanca\". \nOn 7 August the Children's Day is celebrated. The little Celedón or Celedón txiki descends in the same square as the first day, and later, Celedón txiki and neska txiki wish a happy celebration to all the children in Vitoria, from the Town Hall. \nOn 10 August at one o'clock in the morning Celedon ascends and this marks the end of the Virgen Blanca Festivities\n\nThis festitvity has been celebrated since 1884. In 1957, a group of friends created a Celedon’s descent, as an analogy to the inhabitants of nearby villages, who went to Vitoria-Gasteiz to celebrate the festivities.\nThe initial idea was a parachutist, but due to technical difficulties they created a rag doll that descends from the Church-tower to a balcony in the square.\n\nAt six o'clock in the afternoon, Celedon's descent is performed from the top of the Church of San Miguel to a balcony in the square below, where Celedón (a rag doll with an umbrella) gradually goes down suspended by a wire. Mean while the citizens below, shower themselves in champagne and sing Celedón's song. Once he reaches the balcony the staff hide the rag doll and a human Celedón appears. Next, he has to cross the square, helped by a group of friends, to reach the Church of San Miguel and greet the crowds below and wish everyone a happy celebration. This performance marks the starting of the celebration in Vitoria-Gasteiz.\nAt ten o'clock at night, the \"Virgen Blanca\" brotherhood is in charge of organizing a lantern procession.\n\nThe Virgen Blanca Day is celebrated on this day. At seven o'clock in the morning the dawn procession and the rosary take place. Afterwards, at nine o'clock in the morning a group of friends called the blusas (boys) and the neskak (girls) offer bunches of flowers to the Virgen Blanca Saint and places them at the entrance of San Miguel church\n\n\"Celedón txiki\". This day is especially focused on children. At twelve o'clock in the morning a recreation of Celedón's descent is made and celedón txiki and neska txiki come down the same way as Celedón did three days before. Children have special activities for them all around the city so they can enjoy the day.\n\nThe \"veteran blusa and neska\"'s day. This day is focused on the veterans of the city. The streets are bursting with older people dressed in blouses belonging to the blusas from the 60's\n\nTraditionally the 'dirty' day is celebrated on 9 August. In the parades taking place this day, the \"blusas\" and the \"neskak\" used to throw flour at each other and danced covered in flour and got very dirty, but nowadays, this tradition is only carried out by a group of \"blusas\" called batasuna.\n\nAt one o'clock in the morning, Celedón goes up to San Miguel Church the same way he came down on 4 August. This marks the end of the celebration in the city.\n\nEvery year several traditional basque sports tournaments take place to entertain spectators and increase tourism. The most popular and traditional basque sport is \"eskupilota\" and every year the \"Virgen Blanca Eskupilota Txapelketa\" Championship is organized and other traditional Basque sports can be followed every morning in the 'Fueros' Square.\n\nConcerts are one of the most important highlights these days. Famous local and national celebrities come to Vitoria and perform on stages all around the city centre. The concerts organized by the Town Hall, are normally performed in the squares of 'Plaza del Machete', 'Plaza del Arca', 'Plaza de los Fueros' and 'Plaza Nueva'. But the concerts organized by the \"Txosnas\" are performed in the campus of the University of the Basque Country in Vitoria.\n\nThese are groups of boys blusas and girls (neskak) from the city, who take an active part throughout the Virgen Blanca festivities. Most groups are made up of both Blusas and Neskak. These groups of friends, get together and take part in a parade from the 'Plaza Nueva' to the bullring every day. They also organize different activities around the city centre. All groups have their own identity and are given one of the following names:\n\n"}
{"id": "44844658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44844658", "title": "Water Music", "text": "Water Music\n\nThe Water Music is a collection of orchestral movements, often published as three suites, composed by George Frideric Handel. It premiered on 17 July 1717, in response to King George I's request for a concert on the River Thames.\n\nThe \"Water Music\" is scored for a relatively large orchestra, making it suitable for outdoor performance.\n\nThe \"Water Music\" opens with a French overture and includes minuets, bourrées and hornpipes. It is divided into three suites:\n\n\n\n\nThere is evidence for the different arrangement found in Chrysander's Gesellschaft edition of Handel's works (in volume 47, published in 1886), where the movements from the \"suites\" in D and G were mingled and published as one work with HWV 348. This sequence derives from Samuel Arnold's first edition of the complete score in 1788 and the manuscript copies dating from Handel's lifetime. Chrysander's edition also contains an earlier version of the first two movements of HWV 349 in the key of F major composed in 1715 (originally scored for two natural horns, two oboes, bassoon, strings and continuo), where in addition to the horn fanfares and orchestral responses, the original version contained an elaborate concerto-like first violin part.\n\nThe music in each of the suites has no set order today.\n\nThe first performance of the \"Water Music\" suites is recorded in \"The Daily Courant\", the first British daily newspaper. At about 8 p.m. on Wednesday, 17 July 1717, King George I and several aristocrats boarded a royal barge at Whitehall Palace, for an excursion up the Thames toward Chelsea. The rising tide propelled the barge upstream without rowing. Another barge, provided by the City of London, contained about 50 musicians who performed Handel's music. Many other Londoners also took to the river to hear the concert. According to \"The Courant\", \"the whole River in a manner was covered\" with boats and barges. On arriving at Chelsea, the king left his barge, then returned to it at about 11 p.m. for the return trip. The king was so pleased with the \"Water Music\" that he ordered it to be repeated at least three times, both on the trip upstream to Chelsea and on the return, until he landed again at Whitehall.\n\nKing George's companions in the royal barge included Anne Vaughan, the Duchess of Bolton, the Duchess of Newcastle, the Duke of Kingston, Madam Kielmansegg, the Countess of Godolphin, and the Earl of Orkney. Handel's orchestra is believed to have performed from about 8 p.m. until well after midnight, with only one break while the king went ashore at Chelsea.\n\nIt was rumoured that the \"Water Music\" was composed to help King George steal some of the London spotlight back from the prince who, at the time, worried that his time to rule would be shortened by his father's long life, was throwing lavish parties and dinners to compensate for it. The \"Water Music's\" first performance on the Thames was the King's way of reminding London that he was still there and showing he could carry out gestures even grander than his son's.\n\nLegend has it that Handel composed \"Water Music\" to regain the favour of King George I. Handel had been employed by the future king George while he was still Elector of Hanover, before he succeeded to the British throne. The composer supposedly fell out of favour for moving to London during Queen Anne's reign. This story was first related by Handel's early biographer John Mainwaring; although it may have some foundation in fact, the tale as told by Mainwaring has been doubted by some Handel scholars.\n\nAnother legend has it that the Elector of Hanover approved of Handel's permanent move to London, knowing the separation between them would be temporary. Both were aware the Elector of Hanover would eventually succeed to the British throne after Queen Anne's death.\n\nMany portions of \"Water Music\" have become familiar in popular culture.\n\nFrom 1958 to 1988 this was featured as the theme music from the British network Anglia Television a brand by ITV.\n\nFrom 1977 to 1996, Walt Disney World featured movements from both installments of \"Water Music\" as the background music for the Electrical Water Pageant, a parade of sea creatures lit up with electric lights off the coast of the Magic Kingdom.\n\nA performance of \"Water Music\" plays a major role in the movie \"The Madness of King George\", in which King George III exhibits very erratic and inappropriate behavior at a concert, yelling at the orchestra to play louder (and eventually taking the place of the harpsichordist, playing very badly), culminating in a physical altercation with the Prince of Wales, leading to the Prince of Wales asking to be named Regent.\n\nThere are many recordings. The \"Music for the Royal Fireworks\" (1749), composed 32 years later for another outdoor performance (this time, for George II of Great Britain for the fireworks in London's Green Park, on 27 April 1749), has often been paired with the \"Water Music\" on recordings.\n"}
{"id": "43912426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43912426", "title": "World Food Championships", "text": "World Food Championships\n\nThe World Food Championships is an international cooking competition currently held in Orange Beach, Alabama. From 2012 to 2014 the event was hosted in Las Vegas, Nevada. The competition features top chefs and home cooks from around the world who have won qualifying competitions. Competitors compete in the categories of sandwiches, barbecue, chili, burgers, pasta, bacon and dessert. As of 2014 the competition has total prizes of $300,000. The competition is filmed by A&E Networks and broadcast on the network Fyi as the \"World Food Championships\" TV series. The Championships were originally held on the Las Vegas Strip but in 2013 they were moved to the Fremont Street Experience in Downtown Las Vegas. Christian Collins from Masterchef season 2 was the emcee for the chef competition in Las Vegas as well as Kissimee, Florida and Orange Beach, Alabama.\n\n\"World Food Championships draw chefs from around the globe\" (Video story by \"USA Today\", November 8, 2015)\n"}
