{"id": "31222359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31222359", "title": "7 Billion Others", "text": "7 Billion Others\n\n7 billion Others () is a series of videos by Yann Arthus-Bertrand. Each of the videos feature a single person telling the viewer about their life, often in their native language. The project's homepage states that since the project's beginning in 2003, over 5000 individuals have had their testimonials recorded for the project. According to Arthus-Bertrand, the project's aim is to help different people to understand each other through listening.\nThe project was previously called 6 billion Others, but is meanwhile renamed to 7 billion others.\n"}
{"id": "18455505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18455505", "title": "Austro-Tai languages", "text": "Austro-Tai languages\n\nAustro-Tai is a hypothesis that the Austronesian and Kra–Dai language families have a common origin. Related proposals include Austric (Wilhelm Schmidt 1906) and Sino-Austronesian (Laurent Sagart 2005b).\n\nThe Kra–Dai languages contain numerous similar forms with Austronesian which were noticed as far back as Schlegel in 1901. These are considered to be too many to explain as chance resemblance. The question then is whether they are due to language contact—i.e. borrowing—or to common descent—i.e. a genealogical relationship.\n\nThe first proposal of a genealogical relationship was that of Paul Benedict in 1942, which he expanded upon through 1990. This took the form of an expansion of Wilhelm Schmidt's Austric phylum, and posited that Kra–Dai and Austronesian had a sister relationship within Austric, which Benedict then accepted. Benedict later abandoned Austric but maintained his Austro-Tai proposal, adding the Japonic languages to the proposal as well, an addition generally not maintained by later authors. The proposal remained controversial among linguists, especially after the publication of Benedict (1975) whose methods of reconstruction were idiosyncratic and considered unreliable. For example, Thurgood (1994) examined Benedict's claims and concluded that since the sound correspondences and tonal developments were irregular, there was no evidence of a genealogical relationship, and the numerous cognates must be chalked up to early language contact.\n\nHowever, the fact that many of the Austro-Tai cognates are found in core vocabulary, which is generally more resistant to borrowing, continued to intrigue scholars. There were later several advances over Benedict's approach: Abandoning the larger Austric proposal; focusing on lexical reconstruction and regular sound correspondences; including data from additional branches of Kra–Dai, Hlai and Kra; using better reconstructions of Kra–Dai; and reconsidering the nature of the relationship, with Kra–Dai possibly being a branch (daughter) of Austronesian.\n\nSagart (2005a) cited a core of regular sound correspondences relating words belonging to the basic vocabulary in Benedict’s work. He pointed out the lack of a substantial body of shared cultural words. He took these facts as indications that Benedict’s Austro-Tai cannot be explained as a contact phenomenon. He further listed a number of specifically Malayo-Polynesian features in the vocabulary shared by Tai-Kadai and Austronesian, concluding that Tai-Kadai is a subgroup within, rather than a related group of, Austronesian.\n\nOstapirat (2000) reconstructed proto-Kra, one of the least-well attested branches of Kra–Dai. In (Ostapirat 2005) he presents fifty core vocabulary items found in all five branches of Kra–Dai, and demonstrated that half of them—words such as \"child, eat, eye, fire, hand, head, I, you, louse, moon, tooth, water, this\", etc.—can be related to proto-Austronesian by regular sound correspondences, a connection which Reid (2006) finds convincing.\n\nAustronesian is characterized by disyllabic roots, whereas Kra–Dai is predominantly monosyllabic. It appears that in Kra–Dai, the first vowel reduced and then dropped out, leaving a consonant cluster which frequently reduced further to a single consonant. For example, the proto-Austronesian root *qudip \"live, raw\" corresponds to proto-Kra ' > Laha ' and Tai \"\" \"id.\" (the *-D- consonant is Ostapirat's voiced plosive of undetermined quality, probably alveolar as opposed to dental articulation).\n\nIn proto-Kra–Dai, there appear to have been three tones in words ending in a sonorant (vowel or nasal consonant), labeled simply A, B, C, plus words ending in a stop consonant, D, which did not have tone. In general, Austronesian words ending in a sonorant correspond to A, and words ending in a stop correspond to D. This accounts for most of the words. There are also a few cognates with B and C tone. From Indic borrowings it appears that tone B was originally a final \"h\" in Kra–Dai, and some of the corresponding Austronesian roots also end in \"h,\" such as AN *qəmpah \"chaff\", Kam–Sui \"paa\"-B (Mulam \"kwaa\"-B), though there are few examples to go on. Tone C seems to have originally been creaky voice or a final glottal stop. It may correspond to *H, a laryngeal consonant of uncertain manner, in proto-Austronesian (AN *quluH \"head\", Thai \"klau\"-C), but again the number of cognates is too low to draw firm conclusions.\n\nSagart (2004) presented data from a newly described Kra language, Buyang, which—like many other Kra languages—retains the disyllabic roots characteristic of Austronesian. Some examples are:\n\nThe \"Austronesian Basic Vocabulary Database\" project included both Buyang and Old Chinese. It found what it identified in Buyang as 16 retentions in common with Proto-Malayo-Polynesian and 21 retentions in common with Proto-Oceanic (as opposed to five loans) out of a sample of 181 etyma. Old Chinese was identified as having 11 retentions in common with Proto Malayo-Polynesian and 10 retentions in common with Proto-Oceanic out of a sample of 197 Old Chinese etyma.\n\nAmong scholars who accept the evidence as definitive, there is disagreement as to the nature of the relationship. Benedict attempted to show that Tai–Kadai has features which cannot be accounted for by proto-Austronesian, and that therefore it must be a separate family coordinate with Austronesian (a sister relationship). Ostapirat concluded that these reconstructed linguistic features are spurious. However, he could not rule out the possibility that Tai–Kadai tone cannot be explained, and so leaves the question open pending further reconstruction of proto-Austronesian. He supports the consensus hypothesis of several scholars that proto-Austronesian was spoken on Formosa or adjacent areas of coastal China, and that the likely homeland of proto-Tai–Kadai was coastal Fujian or Guangdong as part of the neolithic Longshan culture. The spread of the Tai–Kadai peoples may have been aided by agriculture, but any who remained near the coast were eventually absorbed by the Chinese.\n\nSagart, on the other hand, holds that Tai–Kadai is a branch of Austronesian which migrated back to the mainland from northeastern Formosa long after Formosa was settled, but probably before the expansion of Malayo-Polynesian out of Formosa. The language was then largely relexified from what he believes may have been an Austroasiatic language.\n\nHowever, Ostapirat maintains that Tai–Kadai could not descend from Malayo-Polynesian in the Philippines, and likely not from the languages of eastern Formosa either. His evidence is in the Tai–Kadai sound correspondences, which reflect Austronesian distinctions that were lost in Malayo-Polynesian and even Eastern Formosan. These are proto-AN *t and *C, also *n and *N, which were distinct in proto-Tai–Kadai but which fell together as *t and *n in proto-MP and Eastern Formosan; and *S, which is *s in proto-Tai–Kadai but *h in proto-MP. There are also Austro-Tai roots which are not attested from Malayo-Polynesian, such as *Cumay \"bear\". (Western MP has *biRuaŋ.) Such roots are retentions from Proto-Austronesian shared by Tai-Kadai and Formosan, and lost in Malayo-Polynesian, in Sagart's view.\n\nSagart (2005b) proposes an Eastern Formosan–Malayo-Polynesian connection with Tai–Kadai, based on words such as proto-Tai–Kadai *maNuk and Eastern Formosan *manuk \"bird\", as compared to proto-Austronesian, where the word for \"bird\" was *qayam, and *maNuk meant \"chicken\" (cf. English \"fowl\", which once meant \"bird\" but has come to usually refer to chickens and other birds raised for meat), and a few other words such *-mu \"thou\" which have not been reconstructed for proto-Austronesian. However, Ostapirat notes Tai–Kadai retains the Austronesian *N in this word, which had been lost from Eastern Formosan and Malayo-Polynesian, and that a change in meaning from \"chicken\" to \"bird\" could easily have happened independently, for example among proto-Tai–Kadai speakers when they borrowed the mainland word *ki \"chicken\" (cognate with Old Chinese *kej and Hmongic /qai/).\n\nSagart (2004) presents a distinct argument for subgrouping Tai-Kadai with Malayo-Polynesian: he argues that the numerals 5–10, shared by Tai-Kadai, Malayo-Polynesian and three southeastern Formosan languages, are post-proto-Austronesian innovations. Part of the problem of evidence may be due to the loss of the ancestral languages in the Philippines: the uniformity of Philippine languages suggests widespread language replacement after the expected time of the Tai–Kadai split.\n\nSagart (2005b) suggests that Austronesian (including Tai-Kadai) is ultimately related to the Sino-Tibetan languages, forming a Sino-Austronesian family. The Proto-Sino-Austronesian speakers would have originated from the Neolithic communities of the coastal regions of prehistoric North China or East China. Ostapirat disputes this view, noting that the apparent cognates are rarely found in all branches of Tai–Kadai, and almost none in core vocabulary. Apparent connections with Austroasiatic languages, per Benedict, may be due to language contact when the ancestral Tai–Kadai language reached the mainland.\n\nRoger Blench notes that Daic-speaking and Austronesian-speaking peoples had many customs in common.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10172453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10172453", "title": "Azawagh", "text": "Azawagh\n\nThe Azawagh (alias \"Azaouagh\" or \"Azawak\") is a dry basin covering what is today northwestern Niger, as well as parts of northeastern Mali and southern Algeria. The Azawagh is mainly made up of Sahelian and Saharan flatlands and has a population that is predominantly Tuareg and Arab, with significant Bouzou and Wodaabe minorities and a recent influx of Hausa and Zarma.\n\nThe Tuareg word \"azawaɣ\" means \"savannah\". Azawad, a term used for the portion of northern Mali claimed by the Tuareg rebel movement National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad, is believed to be an Arabic corruption of \"Azawagh\".\n\nThe Azawagh refers to the dry structural basin, which once carried a northern tributary of the Niger river, the Azawagh river, known as Dallol Bosso further south. The river, which ran some in prehistoric times, dried up after the Neolithic Subpluvial and created a basin of some . Its valley, which geologists call the Iullemmeden Basin, is bordered by the Hoggar Mountains and their foothills in the north, the Aïr Mountains in the east, and the Adrar des Ifoghas in the west. The bedrock of the region is Cretaceous/Paleocene limestone and clay, which was cut by erosion and covered by aeolian sand in the Upper Pleistocene. \n\nIn ecological terms, the Azawagh basin is divided into, from north to south, a Saharian, a Sahelian and a northern Sudanese (referring to the geographic region) zone.\n\nIn Niger, Azawagh generally includes the towns of Abalagh (Abalak), In Tibaraden (Tchin-Tabaraden), Tiliya, In Gal and Tabalaq, a village where the sole lake of the region is located.\n\nHuman occupation of the Azawagh has been dated back to 4500 BCE, with evidence of cattle-raising beginning 3200 BCE. From this period until roughly 1500 BCE, the region also supported large fauna, including waterbuck, hippopotami, and elephants.\n\nEvidence of copper-working has been found at Tekebrine dating to 1600 BCE. At around this time, climatic conditions worsened, and the Sudanese peoples of the region were replaced by Berbers who constructed tumuli. \n\nIslam reached the Western Aïr Mountains via southwest Libya in the eighth century. The region was invaded and colonized by the French in the early twentieth century. Following the independence movements of Algeria, Mali, and Niger, and the corresponding departure of the French, the region became divided between these three nations.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, a series of droughts forced increasing numbers of the region's nomadic population into villages and towns. The droughts also sparked a rebellion by the region's Tuareg population, with groups such as Front for the Liberation of Aïr and Azaouak and the Front for the Liberation of Tamoust rebelling against the Nigerien government, while the Arab Islamic Front of Azawad, Popular Movement for the Liberation of Azawad, Revolutionary Liberation Army of Azawad, and the Popular Liberation Front of Azawad opposed the government of Mali.\n\nDespite being the size of Austria, the Nigerien portion of the Azawagh had a population of only 85,000 as of 2003.\n\nThe area is dominated by the Kel Tamashek peoples, as well as some nomadic Arab-ancestry tribes including Hassaniyya-speakers (also called Azawagh Arabs, not to be confused with Niger's Diffa Arabs). The Azawagh is the centre for the Iwellemeden Kel Denneg Federation. The region also has a nomadic population of Wodaabe Fulani and a substantial minority of Bouzou, formerly a Tuareg slave caste. In recent years, a number of Hausa and Zarma have settled in the region, primarily as government officials and traders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1571103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571103", "title": "Ball gown", "text": "Ball gown\n\nA ball gown or ballgown is a type of evening gown worn to a ball or a formal event. Most versions are cut off the shoulder with a low décolletage, exposed arms, and long bouffant styled skirts. Such gowns are typically worn with a stole (a formal shawl in expensive fabric), cape or cloak in lieu of a coat, couture or vintage jewelry and opera-length gloves. Where \"state decorations\" are to be worn, they are on a bow pinned to the chest, and married women wear a tiara if they have one. Although artificial fabrics are now sometimes used, the most common fabrics are satin, silk, taffeta and velvet with trimmings of lace, pearls, sequins, embroidery, ruffles, ribbons, rosettes and ruching.\n\nIn previous years, the same type of dress might have been called an evening dress, having very similar features; low-cut neckline, a tight bodice, a large skirt and sometimes-bare arms. The ball gown at this time had similar features, a full skirt supported by a petticoat, a tight waist achieved by a corset or bodice with a stay to keep the subject upright and with perfect posture, off the shoulder style and with bare arms.\n\nIn the coming years, the introduction of the sewing machine changed the dress market. Middle-class people could now produce their own dresses and with more quality and efficiency than before when they were made by hand. Upper class members of society might still have had their dresses made by a designer but with the turn around time decreased. Around this time was also the introduction of chemical dyes. This dramatically changed the range of colors that dresses could be produced in. This time was encompassed within the Romantic period, which coincided with the Victorian era. During this time the crinoline was introduced as well as demure sleeves, which puffed up around the arm.\nSkirts had developed an overall bell shape but with extra fullness at the back.\nSkirts lost their front shape and were altered to lay more flat against the body while the sides and back gained fullness with pleating techniques. Oftentimes a long train was attached to the back of the skirt.\n\nFor the next 10 years the fullness in the back of the skirts increased further with the use of the bustle.\n\nThe bustle went out of style because it was not needed anymore for the fullness in the back of the dress. The material instead was gathered and fell down the back which ended with a long train.\n\nThe hourglass shape emerged which was known for a narrow waist. It was achieved by having a cone-shaped skirt that was narrow at the waist and gained fullness near the bottom.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, in 1947, Christian Dior introduced his \"New Look\" of nipped-in waistlines and full skirts.\n\nPreviously, Ball gowns were worn for private events and parties, but in the mid-20th century, private events turned into public ones. As the century progressed, traditional events become less important while ones like charity events took its place. In 21st century culture, galas and red carpet events are showcases for extravagant gowns to be in the public eye. In Britain, when Elizabeth II terminated formal court events in 1957, the more public events, like a charity ball, arose in popularity because it was open to anyone who could afford to buy a ticket.\n\nDesigner dresses were typically part of a designer's collection, having it altered for the wearer. Designers need to know where the dress will be worn to avoid two people from matching. But if the original wearer decides to wear the dress to another event afterwards, the possibility of matching is increased. In modern times, designers must understand that their pieces of work will be criticized and also praised as a result of the internet and paparazzi.\n\nThe first forms of the 21st century term “Debutante ball” or “Cotillion” emerged in the mid 19th century with what was called a “coming out ball”. These events were meant to show off the women who were now of marriageable age. Traditionally the debutantes will wear all white, but with varying styles of dress. While the style of dress can vary, strapless and sleeveless variations are popular and are typically worn with long white gloves and can be accessorized with bouquets, and sometimes a fan. For most of the 19th century, a headdress with veiling was a popular style as well as a full train attached at the waist and in later years it would attach to the shoulders.The traditional ideals of the debutante ball vary based on location in the USA. The debutantes in New Orleans could be seen wearing jeweled crowns and dresses with Medici collars with elongated trains. Texas has variations within its various regions. In Laredo, middle class debutantes wear beaded suede garments. In San Antonio, the dresses are of elaborate colors and covered in beads of different designs. The beads add extensive weight having some dresses weigh in at about 75 lbs.\n\nAnother coming of age event is the Quinceanera, an event in Latin American cultures when a girl turns 15. Their gowns are often very brightly colored and resemble traditional ball gowns with very full ruffled or ruched skirts.\n\nIn 1912, Hellen Taft along with collection founders Cassie Mason Myers Julian-James, Rose Gouverneur Hoes, and the Smithsonian Institution started the “First Ladies Collection.” It is customary for the first lady of a new president to donate the dress she wears to the inauguration ball but it is not required. Every first lady is represented in the collection although they are not all inaugural dresses. Mrs. Taft started this tradition when she donated her dress that she wore during President Taft's inauguration. Typically the dresses were added to the collection after the first lady had left office but in 1955 the publics uproar to see Mamie Eisenhower's inaugural dress was so strong that the Smithsonian changed their policy and added her dress immediately, not waiting until she left office.\n\n"}
{"id": "43158098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43158098", "title": "Bethlem Gallery", "text": "Bethlem Gallery\n\nThe Bethlem Gallery is an art gallery in Beckenham, Bromley, England. It was established in 1997 to support and exhibit artists who are current or former patients of the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust. The gallery is housed in an Art Deco building shared with the Bethlem Museum of the Mind, with exhibits about the history of Bethlem Royal Hospital.\n\nThe gallery has a small artist-led team to manage and facilitate it. This team support and encourage artists who may feel excluded from artistic endeavour otherwise. The gallery provides facilities for collaboration, experimentation, and skills exchange.\n\n – Lee, Bethlem artist.\n\nFor long term patients, the art studio is a place to spend time away from the ward.\n\nAvailable resources facilitate sculpture, painting, drawing, printmaking and screen printing, among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37541655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37541655", "title": "Bibliography of Music Literature", "text": "Bibliography of Music Literature\n\nThe Bibliography of Music Literature (), also known as BMS or BMS \"online\", is an international bibliography of literature on music. It considers all kind of music and includes both current and older literature. Since 1968, the BMS editorial staff has been working as the German committee for RILM, too. The bibliography includes monographs, master’s theses and doctoral dissertations, articles and reviews from journals, Festschriften, conference proceedings, yearbooks, anthologies, and essays from critical reports. It contains printed media as well as online resources, data media, sound recordings, audiovisual media, and microforms. Each record provides the title in the original language (for East European- and Asian entries a German translation is added), full bibliographic data, a keyword index, and mostly an abstract. \nCurrently, BMS \"online has more than 315,000 records of literature on music. It is supplemented by the OLC-SSG Musicology, which incorporates the contents of some more 150 music journals from 1993 onward. BMS \"online participates actively on ViFaMusik, the central gateway for music and musicology in Germany.\n\nBMS was established in 1936 by the State Institute for Music Research in Berlin with the aim to list literature on music from all over the world. It was published in print from 1936 through 1988. Currently it is available as BMS \"online\" in a cumulative online database, which is updated in real-time.\n\nEstablished in 1936, the BMS resumed the bibliographic surveys printed in the Jahrbücher der Musikbibliothek Peters. The first BMS editor was Kurt Taut, who was succeeded by Georg Karstädt. Originally printed by Friedrich Hofmeister in Leipzig (Leipzig: Hofmeister, 1936-1941 [volumes 1.1936 to 4.1939]), after a span of four years BMS was stopped due to wartime limitations. The commencement of this bibliographic enterprise after World War II is owed to the musicologist and librarian Wolfgang Schmieder. On behalf of the reconstituted State Institute for Music Research the first volume for 1950/51 appeared in 1954. Since that time the Bibliography of Music Literature has been a regular publication of the Staatliches Institut für Musikforschung. The last volume in print format was published in 2001 and covered the year 1988 (Frankfurt am Main: Hofmeister, 1954-1968 [volumes 1.1950/51 to 6.1960], Mainz: Schott, 1969-2001 [volumes 1961 to 1988]). Since 2006, there has been the Bibliography of Music Literature as BMS \"online\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25204912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25204912", "title": "Botineras", "text": "Botineras\n\nBotineras (\"WAGs: Love for the Game\") is an Argentine telenovela produced by Endemol and Underground. Airing on Telefe, it premiered on November 24, 2009, and was broadcast until August 25, 2010. The show revolves around the theme of football players and their romances, whilst also dealing with the different police investigations they stumble across during the show. When it first aired, the telenovela was originally a comedy, before later becoming a police drama. The original stars were Florencia Peña and Nicolás Cabré, who played Giselle López and Cristian \"Chiqui\" Flores. Peña resigned after the genre shift, as the shift caused her character to lose importance, which, compiled with Peña's general dissatisfaction with the show, saw Romina Gaetani's and Isabel Macedo's characters (Laura Posse/Mía Alberdi and Margarita \"Marga\" Molinari respectively) gain superior notability in contrast to her own.\n\nInitially, the telenovela was intended to be a comedy about football as \"botinera\" translates literally to \"a woman that wears a \"botín\"\", which can mean either high-heeled footwear or a football boot; colloquially it means a footballer's girlfriend or wife. The comedy featured some celebrities from the Argentine football, like football agent Guillermo Cóppola, acting as themselves and the main asset of the comedy was Florencia Peña, who worked in many other successful comedies and helped the show gain modest notoriety.\n\nBy January 2010, the telenovela made a genre shift from comedy to police drama, with more emphasis beginning to shift onto Gaetani's and Roberto Carnaghi's characters. The first story arc which changed genre began when Cristian Flores (Cabré) was jailed for some weeks, and following the dramatic genre change, helped the show gain higher ratings than its previous status as a comedy. A lot of characters began a repackaging, with Peña's character reformulated in the process. Her character began by going into bankruptcy and being forced to work for the police and despite the new approach to the show, Peña announced that she would leave the program because of the changes and she was replaced with Pablo Rago. Rago would also soon depart from the program towards its end, in order to play the lead role in the film \"Manuel Belgrano\" and not have conflicting schedules with the show and the movie.\n\nThe name of the show comes from an organization within the plot, where the \"botineras\" are women that use an agency to develop mediatic romances with football players. The agency is managed by Giselle López (Florencia Peña). The plot starts with the arrival to Buenos Aires of football player Cristian Flores (Nicolás Cabré), who is determined on getting married with his girlfriend, Marga Molinari (Isabel Macedo). Flores was suspected of murdering Cappa, a rival player in Europe, and the police start to investigate him. Laura Posse (Romina Gaetani) tries to investigate him by becoming a \"botinera\", and therefore by getting near him. For this purpose, she takes a secret identity as \"Mía Alberdi\". Flores was living with his agent, Tato Marín, so Mía managed to work as secretary for Tato. Tato had killed Alberto Flores (Cristian's father) in order to have control over him by acting as a parental figure. This was unknown by Flores, but not by Nino Paredes, Tato's lawyer. Paredes kept evidence of the crime to threaten him.\n\nOn the day of the premiere, opposing television broadcaster \"Channel 13\" scheduled a sketch with Francella, Adrian Suar and Tinelli, but \"Botineras\" had a higher rating, garnering 27.3 against 22.3.\n\nCast (in credits order) \n\n"}
{"id": "10078977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10078977", "title": "Broken English", "text": "Broken English\n\nBroken English is a poorly spoken or ill-written version of the English language, sometimes considered a pidgin. Under the strictest definition of the term, broken English consists of English vocabulary grafted onto the syntax of a non-English speaker's native language, including word order, other aspects of sentence structure, and the presence or absence of articles in the speaker's native language. Typically, the non-English speaker also strips English phrases of linguistic markings that are definite articles or certain verb tenses.\n\nIn some communities, young people may intentionally adopt versions of the English language that older people consider to be broken English. This has been documented, for example, among the Māori of New Zealand, where the younger generation was more proficient in English than the previous generation, but intentionally made modifications to the language to assert their own sense of cultural identity.\n\nIn literature, broken English is often used to depict the foreignness of a character, or that character's lack of intelligence or education. However, poets have also intentionally used broken English to create a desired artistic impression, or as a creative experiment writing somewhere between standard English and a local language or dialect.\n\nFor example, in \"Henry V\", William Shakespeare used broken English to convey the national pride of Scottish and Irish allies in the King's invasion of Normandy. When Henry himself last implores the French Princess Katherine to marry him, knowing that her command of the English language is limited, he says to her: \"Come, your answer in broken music; for thy voice is music and thy English broken; therefore, queen of all, Katherine, break thy mind to me in broken English.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3052185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3052185", "title": "Bust/waist/hip measurements", "text": "Bust/waist/hip measurements\n\nBust/waist/hip measurements (informally called vital statistics) are a common method of specifying body proportions for the purpose of fitting clothes. They match the three inflection points of the female body shape. It is also often used in women's personal ads or Internet profiles to indicate their appearance. In human body measurement, the three sizes are the circumferences of the bust, waist and hips; usually rendered as \"three sizes: xx–yy–zz\" in inches, or centimeters. The three sizes are used mostly in fashion, and almost exclusively in reference to women, who, compared to men, are more likely to have a narrow waist relative to bust and hips. An important difference exist when measuring men's hips for most fashion design purposes. In these instances, men's hips are measured at the genitals. \n\nBreast volume will have an effect on the perception of a woman's figure even when bust/waist/hip measurements are nominally the same. Brassiere band size is measured below the breasts, not at the bust. A woman with measurements of 37A–27–38 will have a different presentation than a woman with measurements of 35C–27–38. These women have ribcage circumferences differing by 2 inches, but when breast tissue is included the measurements are the same. The result is that the latter woman will appear \"bustier\" than the former due to the apparent difference in bust to hip ratios (narrower shoulders, more prominent breasts) even though they are both technically 38–27–38.\n\nHeight will also affect the presentation of the figure. A woman who is 36–24–36 at tall looks different from a woman who is 36–24–36 at tall. Since the latter woman's figure has greater distance between measuring points, she will likely appear thinner than her former counterpart, again, even though they share the same measurements.\n\nThe specific proportions of 36–24–36 inches (90-60-90 centimeters) have frequently been given as the \"ideal\", or \"hourglass\" proportions for women since at least the 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49060638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49060638", "title": "Center for Advancing Innovation", "text": "Center for Advancing Innovation\n\nThe Center for Advancing Innovation (CAI) is a registered 501(c)(3) non-profit organization, headquartered in Bethesda, Maryland, with a mission to accelerate technology transfer and commercialization. CAI was founded by Rosemarie Truman, a consultant and former VP of Global Strategy at Marsh & McLennan. Rosemarie was also a senior manager at Oracle and Goldman Sachs and led R&D and innovation strategy practice globally at IBM. CAI is a partner of The Founder Institute.\n\nAmong its efforts to promote innovation, CAI organizes startup \"challenges\" in which multidisciplinary teams from around the world develop business plans to commercialize federally funded technologies. Industry experts judge hundreds of business plans about these promising technologies to determine challenge \"winners\", which enter into licensing negotiations with participating technology transfer offices. As of 2017, CAI has orchestrated four startup challenges: the National Institutes of Health-sponsored Breast Cancer Startup Challenge, Neuro Startup Challenge, and Nanotechnology Startup Challenge in Cancer competitions, as well as the SPACE RACE startup challenge in partnership with NASA and the Medical Center of the Americas Foundation. To spin out 100 startup companies around commercially viable, oncology-related inventions from universities, hospitals, and federal laboratories, CAI most recently launched the Freedom from Cancer Startup Challenge in partnership with MedImmune and with financial support from the Laura and John Arnold Foundation. From its startup challenges, CAI has launched 58 startups and trained more than 2000 entrepreneurs.\n\nCAI has received notable coverage in the press. In 2015, the Washington Post reported on CAI for success in bridging government and start-up communities. In 2016, the U.S. Government Accountability Office featured CAI's startup challenge model in a report to Congress on open innovation to “effectively implement federal initiatives”. In 2017, Nature Biotechnology dubbed CAI as the “Tinder for Startups” and reported on the Freedom from Cancer Startup Challenge.\n\nAlong with significant press coverage, CAI has been recognized by the U.S. Government. CAI received an “Excellence in Federal Challenge & Prize Competition” award from the U.S. General Services Administration in the category of “Best in Business Plans/Entrepreneurship” for the Breast Cancer Startup Challenge it organized with the National Cancer Institute and Avon Foundation for Women. CAI was also recognized by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services with the Secretary's Pick award for orchestrating the Breast Cancer Startup Challenge and by the Federal Laboratory Consortium with an \"Excellence in Technology Transfer Award\", one of the “most prestigious honors in the [tech transfer] field” and a “symbol of well-deserved recognition for phenomenal technological efforts”. In 2016, the White House recognized the Breast Cancer Startup Challenge in a list of President Obama’s top 10 actions to advance entrepreneurship for stimulating “entrepreneurial solutions” and at #36 of 100 “Examples of President Obama’s Leadership in Science, Technology, and Innovation” for accelerating the “transition of research discoveries from lab to market”.\n"}
{"id": "23889105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23889105", "title": "Clothing technology", "text": "Clothing technology\n\nClothing technology involves the manufacturing, materials, and design innovations that have been developed and used. The timeline of clothing and textiles technology includes major changes in the manufacture and distribution of clothing.\n\nFrom clothing in the ancient world into modernity the use of technology has dramatically influenced clothing and fashion in the modern age. Industrialization brought changes in the manufacture of goods. In many nations, homemade goods crafted by hand have largely been replaced by factory produced goods on assembly lines purchased in a consumer culture. Innovations include man-made materials such as polyester, nylon, and vinyl as well as features like zippers and velcro. The advent of advanced electronics has resulted in wearable technology being developed and popularized since the 1980s. \n\nDesign is an important part of the industry beyond utilitarian concerns and the fashion and glamour industries have developed in relation to clothing marketing and retail. Environmental and human rights issues have also become considerations for clothing and spurred the promotion and use of some natural materials such as bamboo that are considered environmentally friendly. \n\nThe advent of industrialization included factories, specialized and technologically advanced equipment, and production lines for the mass production of textiles. Globalization and advances in trade increased sourcing of metrials and competition for wares across borders. The swadeshi movement in India was an effort to counteract the economic control and influence that British factories exerted over the one-time colony. Concerns have also been raised over the use of so-called sweat shops. \n\nClothing lines based on famous designers have been featured and advertised in magazines and other media. Branding and [marketing] are features of the advertising age. Some designers have also become television and media personalities. In recent years fashion and design has also been the subject of television shows.\n\nThe design and constructions of sportswear has changed dramatically over time. Swimwear used in competitions been developed including foams, synthetic and stretchable tapes, and lightweight materials with performance characteristics specially designed for various athletics pursuits have been developed.\n\nComputer-aided design is used in the production of clothing. Corporate and business training to address accounting, trade, and finance issues has also become a significant part of the trade. Courses and programs at Universities specialize in these fields. the Beijing Institute of Clothing Technology and Fachhochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft Berlin are examples institutions focused on the business. National governments have also become involved in the business with trade rules and negotiations as well as investments such as Europe's Future Textiles and Clothing program.\n\n"}
{"id": "39254389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39254389", "title": "Cross-cultural differences in decision-making", "text": "Cross-cultural differences in decision-making\n\nDecision-making is a mental activity which is an integral part of planning and action taking in a variety of contexts and at a vast range of levels, including, but not limited to, budget planning, education planning, policy making, and climbing the career ladder. People all over the world engage in these activities. The underlying cross-cultural differences in decision-making can be a great contributing factor to efficiency in cross-cultural communications, negotiations, and conflict resolution.\n\nA considerable amount of literature in cognitive science has been devoted to the investigation of the nature of human decision-making. However, a large portion of it discusses the results obtained from a unicultural subject pool, predominantly from a pool of American undergraduate students. Notwithstanding this limitation, the results are usually implicitly or explicitly generalized, which gives rise to the home-field disadvantage: when a particular cultural group is taken as a starting point, it becomes much harder for the researches to notice, or to 'mark', the peculiarities existing within the group. As a result, what is characteristic only of the group under study is taken for granted and ascribed to the general population. This tendency is further aggravated when the researcher belongs to the cultural group that they study. In this case, the researcher and the subjects are exposed to the same physical, social, and situational contexts on the daily basis. Much of every-day functioning is automatic, in other words it is driven by the current features of the environment we are in, that are processed without any conscious awareness. This leads to the building of implicit attitude, values, and beliefs, which are hard to spot. They become apparent when individuals or decision-making models from different cultural backgrounds as different culture backgrounds tend to form different mind processing into decision making. For example, westerners tend to form affective proccessing while easteners are tend to form analytical processing. Moreover Affective or feeling based decision- makings tend to be faster and done spontaneously whereas cognitive or reason based decision making tends to be deliberate\n\nMore scientists have recently been becoming involved in conducting studies on decision-making across cultures. The results show that there are in fact cross-cultural differences in behavior in general and in decision-making strategies in particular and thus impel researches to explain their origin. There are a number of most popular and accepted explanations:\n\nCo-Evolution of Genes with Culture Hypothesis. The planet Earth is rich in a variety of geographical zones, all of them differing from one another in climate and living conditions they allow for. Across generations individuals populating a certain area learn to adopt and pass on to the next generations the cultural traits that promote survival and flourishing within the environment of their locality. As a result, the genes supporting the survival-relevant traits are passed on, while others fade away. In the long run, it becomes the case that it is for the surviving genes to set conditions for the cultural practices to be used and even to create the environment to which the members adapt. The process that changes the frequency of application of cultural traits is influenced by the same forces that determine the remolding of the combination of genetic variants. These forces are natural selection, mutation, drift, and migration. There is however one more force – 'a decision-making force' – in cultural evolution. Since cultural traits are transmitted in the context of interpersonal communication, the cultural variants its participants adopt are influenced by the behavioral choices the 'communicator' and the 'learner' make.\n\nCultural Heritage Hypothesis. Cultural groups all over the world have developed distinct unique worldviews reflected in their philosophies. The two most often compared are the Eastern philosophy which stems from the Confucian thought and the Western philosophy which is grounded in the Aristotelian thought. While the former sees a part/whole dichotomy relations between the items, with special focus on the relations between the elements of nature rather than on the elements themselves, the latter pays more attention to a one/many dichotomy, where each element is seen as more or less autonomous. These differences are deeply rooted in the collective unconscious and might be accountable for the diversity of individuals' everyday behavior.\n\nSocial Orientation Hypothesis. All currently existing cultures can be compared with one another against the Collectivism/Individualism scale. The societies that are usually described as individualistic have the independent social orientation. The differentiating characteristics of those groups are autonomy, self-expression, and the interpretation of happiness as a socially disengaging emotion. The collectivists' societies have the interdependent social orientation. Their members endorse harmony, relatedness, and connection, don't view themselves as bounded or separated from others, and experience happiness as a sense of closeness to others. Typically interdependent societies are found among Eastern nations, and independent societies are found among Western nations. Subgroups within a nation can also be compared against Independency/Interdependency scale. For example, the working class in the U.S. tends to be more interdependent compared with the middle class. Numerous factors, such as geographical mobility, industrialization, and political systems, affect the social orientation.\n\nDepending on the stance the researcher assumes on the role the culture plays in decision-making, one of the following models is used to think of and predict decision-making behavioral patterns in a given culture:\n\n\nOccidental philosophies are known for the extensive use of analytical thinking – a methodical approach to solving complex problems by breaking them into their constituent parts, and identifying the cause and effect patterns of the constituent parts, while Oriental philosophies are well known for their emphasis on holism – the idea that the properties of a given system cannot be determined or explained by its components' parts alone, but the system as a whole determines how the parts behave. This discrepancy brings about further differences in values and beliefs that can be practically displayed in how different cultures manage their public institutions. For example, culturally determined attitudes towards age, gender roles, and the end result are well reflected in the way these cultures build and run their health-care systems. Oriental cultures hold that age is a proxy to experience and hence to wisdom, that the individual should mind their duty without focusing on the final results of the activity, and that women are best suited to play certain roles. On the other hand, Occidental cultures hold that age is not correlated to wisdom, the individual should focus on the end and drive to achieve it, and women are equal to men in all respects. These differences become obvious when health-care systems of an Oriental and Occidental cultures are compared. In Indian health-care setting customers are much less likely to sue their physicians, – who is usually a representative of an older generation – even when having enough evidence of malpractice, due to the fact that their age is treated as a proxy to experience and knowledge. Hence, the decision to sue a physician for deficiencies doesn't occur as a choice or option to most Indian patients, who are representatives of the Oriental culture. In the Indian setting physicians are, however, normally accountable for the care given, even though rarely blamed for unfavorable results, which can be explained by the fact they hold in high regard the means of an action, and not the end. Another distinguishing feature of Indian hospitals is that women are mostly employed as receptionists, billing clerks, and admission assistants. This trend in hiring policy can be explained against gender and role expectation dimension, and by the inculcated in Oriental cultures belief that each element has a predefined place in the system.\n\nIndividuals who come from the Oriental cultures with philosophies promoting holistic thinking are found to be better than their Occidental counterparts at noticing the changes in backgrounds, whereas individuals from Occidental cultures who use analytic reasoning tend to be better at recognizing changes in focal objects [8]. The differences in perception might be the result of different standpoints in the corresponding philosophies. It can be taken into consideration when explaining profound divergences in how willing the Westerners and the Easterners are to compromise when they make consumer choices. Just as much as the low-context Westerners are more likely to notice the changes in the salient objects, they are more likely to believe in a single right answer and pursue even the slightest indication that one option is better than all others, whereas the high-context Easterners begin the decision making process already favoring the compromise option.\n\nThe individuals from high- and low-context cultures also differ in their communication styles. The former prefer the less direct style, and thereby they are less explicit in stating their feelings, desires, and intentions when communicating verbally. The latter, on the contrary, are less likely to camouflage their message and conceal their intentions. The culturally normative communication style also enhances people's responsiveness to the transmitted message and influences the perception of the communicator. It influences hiring decisions. HR agents in low-context cultures are more likely to hire direct, assertive, and somewhat aggressive candidates, whereas the reverse pattern is observed in high-context cultures.\n\nIndividuals from different cultures tend to have different views of the self, which affects individuals' cognition, goals in social interactions, and consequently influences their behavior and goals in decision making. Individuals from individualist's cultures tend to have independent self-construal and thus experience happiness as a socially disengaging emotion (e.g., pride), and those from collectivist's cultures tend to have interdependent self-construal and experience happiness as a socially engaging emotion (e.g., peace and harmony). The former are more likely to make decisions to fulfill personal accomplishment, whereas the latter are more likely to make decisions that promote social connectedness. This is reflected in their differences in the teamwork styles. A group composed of members with low independent self-construal prefer the cooperative strategy to the competitive one, whereas a group composed of members with high independent self construal preferred the competitive strategy to the cooperative one.\n\nIndividuals from cultures with interdependent social orientation believe that public good overrides individual benefit, whereas individuals from cultures with independent social orientation believe that every individual should strive to achieve their best. Thereby, when engaging in the decision-making process the former are more likely to take into consideration the injunctive norms, guarding stability within the society, while the former are more likely to follow their introjected goals. For instance, Indians are found to accommodate to authority figures and significant others and respond to others' expectations when choosing what clothes to wear for a party, and what advanced training courses to take. In each corresponding case, Americans were more likely to act with accordance with their own beliefs of what will be beneficial to them and didn't demonstrate the 'deference syndrome'. In Western cultures (Independent), strength and integrity are demonstrated by being true to one’s own opinions and tastes and not being swayed by social pressure to conform. As opposed to seeing individual freedom as a prerequisite to an authentic life, interdependent cultures evaluate freedom in terms of its costs and beneﬁts to the group.\n1411.\n\nIn addition to that, individualist societies with dominant with independent self-construal which is typical for western society are more likely to rely on feelings and consequently more impulsive in their decision making compared to people with an interdependent self-construal which more typical for eastern sociesty \n\nThere is a difference in the decision making patterns between cultures with independent and interdependent social orientations in the situations when risk-taking is involved, namely the members of cultural groups with high independency show more risk-aversive behavior. This pattern is observed only when risk is material in its nature, and not observed when risk is of the social nature. The cushion hypothesis attempts to explain this difference. It suggests that members of a collectivist society are more prone to risk-taking in the financial domain, because they know they will more likely receive help from their friends or extended family when they \"fall\", as collectivism endorses social relatedness and interdependence. Social networks in such societies can serve as potent material-risk insurance and correspond to the notion \"social capital\". Risk-aversion tendency among members of individualist societies are observed even in the contexts that involve financial risks only indirectly, for instance in decision-making contexts that involve estimating the risk of revealing private information to gain access to mobile banking.\n\nAffect forecasts play an important role in driving decisions. The members of independent and interdependent societies differ in the degree they rely on the expected enjoyment when making choices. Euro-Canadians, who are representatives of the independent social orientation, place more weight on expected enjoyment, whereas East Asians, who are representatives of the interdependent social orientation, warn against excessive hedonism, as their concern with social obligations precludes the uncompromising pursuit of positive affect. This pattern can be observed in the higher education setting, when Euro-Canadian and East Asian students' choices of what courses to enroll in are compared. Euro-Canadian students show a short-term orientation and tend to enroll in the courses which promise to be fun, whereas East Asian students enroll in the courses which they think will be beneficial for their careers and thus show long-term orientation.\n\nThe high degree of tolerance for power distance in interdependent societies reflects the tendency to shun arrogance and consider humility as a virtue at all times in collectivist societies. The tolerance for power distance also has practical implication, for instance, in the tourist decision-making styles. Members of individualist societies with lower levels of tolerance for power distance are less likely to exhibit brand consciousness when making choices concerning their travelling arrangements, compared with their collectivist counterparts.\n\nThere are a lot of differences between collectivist and Individualist. For collectivists, when they to buy the brand extension product that low fit to the core product, they will focus not only on how much product fit to the core product but also focus on the size of company to guess the quality of product. In contrast, in the same situation, Individualists will focus on just only how much brand extension product fit to the product and the size of company doesn't matter to guess the quality. For example, If Core product of \"A\" company is ice cream, High fit product is yogurt, Low fit product is pen. For Collectivist, if The A company is a large company, they might think that the pen maybe have a good quality. But for the Individualist, will think that maybe Pen is not good because it's doesn't fit to the company identity. and These kind of cognitive thinking might effect to decision-making. In term of Marketing, Company Strategy should focus and concern about Corporate identity. Especially, For Collectivists, they believe not only in how much brand extension product fit to core product but also believe in size of company(reliability & Trustworthy). \n\nThe literature on automatic cognition suggests that behavior is shaped by exposure to elements of the social world in a way that occurs below awareness or intention. We learn the stereotyped attitudes which later influence our decisions from the shared schematic representations in a certain culture. When an individual is primed with a concept, often by an implicit instruction to think about it, all the aspects of relevant information become activated and influence decision-making. For example, the individuals who are instructed to underlie all first person plural pronouns in the text are thus primed with the concept of collectivism and then show a statistically significant increase in the inclination to make decisions according with the values of the concept they have been primed with.\n\nAll individuals across cultures have cultural and personal knowledge. Cultural knowledge tends to reflect a large sample of life's events, whereas personal knowledge focuses more on individual or atypical experiences. The other distinction between cultural and personal knowledge is their accessibility. Day after day members of a cultural group are primed with a set of beliefs, attitudes, and behavioral patterns, which contributes to the building-up and storing of the cultural knowledge. Thus cultural knowledge is very accessible, even under high cognitive work load. Personal knowledge is a recording of a single experience and doesn't undergo so many repetitions. That's why it takes a deliberate attempt to access it, which requires more time and effort. Consider the following example. Independent individuals are believed to better respond to promotion-based information, whereas individuals with interdependent self construal are believed to better respond to prevention-based information.In high time pressure condition, this hypothesis is borne out: North Americans are more likely to make up their mind to buy a sun screen having watched a promotion-based commercial, and East Asians are more likely to make the purchase having watched a prevention-based commercial. In the low time pressure condition, when the subjects have more time to deliberate, this difference becomes less salient, or even disappears altogether.\n\nIndividuals in collectivist cultures are less inclined to act in accordance with their cultural beliefs when they don't experience peer pressure. In accordance with what collectivist culture dictates, Japanese and Chinese students are more likely, compared with American and Italian students, to decide whether they will eat in a fast food restaurants contingent on the norms adopted in their societies, and less likely to make choices contingent on their personal attitudes. However, this peculiarity is much more salient when they make plans whether to eat with their friends and less salient when they decide whether to eat in a fast food restaurant on their own. In the latter context, the likelihood they will act contingent on their attitudes significantly increases.\n\nCultural knowledge is recruited when individuals need to provide reasons for their decision. The need to provide reasons evokes an information-processing strategy that relies on top-down application of rules and principles instead of bottom-up processing that relies on personal knowledge. This can be explained with the help of the supposition that individuals feel the pressure to conform when asked to provide reasons, as they don't want to be the outsiders. When they are not asked to explain their choices, they feel freer to rely on their personal knowledge. It has been found that Chinese have a significantly lower tendency to compromise, which earlier on has been found to be one of their characteristic traits, when not asked to provide reasons for their consumer decisions. Americans, on the contrary, are more likely to compromise when they are not accountable to provide explanations for their choice.\n\nWidely shared cultural knowledge provides individuals with a validated framework to interpret otherwise ambiguous experience, thus providing its followers with a sense of epistemic security and providing protection from the uncertainty and unpredictability. The individuals of all cultures vary in the degree they have a need for firm answers. The individuals with high tolerance for ambiguity are found to be less likely to act with the accordance of their culture.\n\nCulture shapes the prevalence of cultural factors – decision content, decision motives, and situational demands and affordances – and shapes how functional factors translate into decision modes – calculation-, recognition-, rule-, role-, and affect-based decision modes. There are, however, a number of universal tendencies across cultures. For example, when action is called for, members of both independent and interdependent social orientations tend to employ role-, rule-, or case-based decision making, as they are much more accessible and allow for less cognitive load, whereas calculation-based mode will be less frequent for relationship decisions in both orientations.\n\nThe more resource rich the physical environment becomes due to modern technologies, the larger is the number of cultures it can support. The development of technologies that increases the resources extracted from the environment inevitably allows a greater diversity of cultures to occupy a given area. More and more of the cultural variants available to members of a modernized societies are transmitted between people who are not kin, friends, or even acquaintances. Young people are more likely to create novel recombinations of diverse cultural variants. Although the choice is wide, the same range of choices is increasingly available all over the world. Waves of modernization have created complex cultures with substantial diversity within them, but have decreased the inter-group diversity by destroying small-scale variations.\n\nWe believe that the different Catering Culture also make a difference in decision-making. Most of the people from collectivist culture pay more attention to the process. For example, we found that many of the Chinese food and Japanese food always need more than 1 day to cook and some of them even need more than 1 month or longer. On the other side, we found that the western people, who are belong to Individualism, more likely to make it easy, because they can eat alone and quickly. However, with the development of the Modernization, the communication between the Catering Culture have a great influence to the Cross-culture difference. We found that more an more teenagers of collectivist, such as student of China, Korea and Japan, seems like to be more individualism. And we can just found the change by observing their eating habits. But there is still no validity study to get a further research between them. Although the young people of collectivist may have some characteristic of individualism, We can still assume that they might be more collectivist at some stage. We always think that the individualism and collectivism are something native, however, the eastern young people now didn't act as an interdependent person like their parents. So It would be also an interesting study to see how the individualist young people become more collectivist and When and Why they have this kind of change.\n\nMany of the researchers always think that most of the eastern country are more collectivist. However, we can still found that, Japan is always different to other eastern countries such as China and Korea. All of them have same history and share same writing in the past. But Japan always make a different choice. Just like the World War II, both of China and Korea are looking forward to the doctrine of the mean, which is called 'Zhongyong' in Chinese, and that made them become invaders. However, Japan shows different way of thinking and became one of the member of aggressor. We can't just simply said they are bad or have some problems. As a research, we need to found that what actually is the cause of the culture of collectivism, and how they work. Even if the three countries share so many things, they still have some big difference between each other. So it's still important to researchers to study deeper the collectivism to found the real motivation of it and how it makes people more interdependent.\n"}
{"id": "30071221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30071221", "title": "Cultural Zones of India", "text": "Cultural Zones of India\n\nThe Cultural Zones of India are seven overlapping zones defined by the Ministry of Culture of the Government of India to promote and preserve the cultural heritage of various regions of India. Each of these zones has been provided with a zonal centre. Most zonal centres were announced by the then-Prime Minister of India, Rajiv Gandhi, in 1985 and formally began functioning in the 1986-87 period. Their stated goal is \"to strengthen the ancient roots of Indian culture and evolve and enrich composite national culture\".\n\nThe city of Kolkata, formerly the capital of British India and West Bengal, is also known as the \"Cultural Capital of India.\"\n\nEach zone has a zonal headquarters where a zonal cultural center has been established. Several states have membership in multiple zones, but no state subdivisions are utilized in the zonal divisions. In addition to promoting the culture of the zones they are responsible for, each zonal center also works to cross-promote and create exposure to other cultural zones of India by organizing functions and inviting artistes from other zones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66981", "title": "Epidemic", "text": "Epidemic\n\nAn epidemic (from Greek ἐπί \"epi\" \"upon or above\" and δῆμος \"demos\" \"people\") is the rapid spread of infectious disease to a large number of people in a given population within a short period of time, usually two weeks or less. For example, in meningococcal infections, an attack rate in excess of 15 cases per 100,000 people for two consecutive weeks is considered an epidemic.\n\nEpidemics of infectious disease are generally caused by several factors including a change in the ecology of the host population (e.g. increased stress or increase in the density of a vector species), a genetic change in the pathogen reservoir or the introduction of an emerging pathogen to a host population (by movement of pathogen or host). Generally, an epidemic occurs when host immunity to either an established pathogen or newly emerging novel pathogen is suddenly reduced below that found in the endemic equilibrium and the transmission threshold is exceeded.\n\nAn epidemic may be restricted to one location; however, if it spreads to other countries or continents and affects a substantial number of people, it may be termed a pandemic. The declaration of an epidemic usually requires a good understanding of a baseline rate of incidence; epidemics for certain diseases, such as influenza, are defined as reaching some defined increase in incidence above this baseline. A few cases of a very rare disease may be classified as an epidemic, while many cases of a common disease (such as the common cold) would not.\n\nThere are several changes that may occur in an infectious agent that may trigger an epidemic. These include:\n\nAn epidemic disease is not required to be contagious, and the term has been applied to West Nile fever and the obesity epidemic (e.g. by the World Health Organisation), among others.\n\nThe conditions which govern the outbreak of epidemics include infected food supplies such as contaminated drinking water and the migration of populations of certain animals, such as rats or mosquitoes, which can act as disease vectors. Certain epidemics occur at certain seasons.\n\nFor example, whooping-cough occurs in spring, whereas measles produces two epidemics, one in winter and one in March. Influenza, the common cold, and other infections of the upper respiratory tract, such as sore throat, occur predominantly in the winter.\nThere is another variation, both as regards the number of people affected and the number who die in successive epidemics: the severity of successive epidemics rises and falls over periods of five or ten years.\n\nIn a common source outbreak epidemic, the affected individuals had an exposure to a common agent. If the exposure is singular and all of the affected individuals develop the disease over a single exposure and incubation course, it can be termed a point source outbreak. If the exposure was continuous or variable, it can be termed a continuous outbreak or intermittent outbreak, respectively.\n\nIn a propagated outbreak, the disease spreads person-to-person. Affected individuals may become independent reservoirs leading to further exposures.\n\nMany epidemics will have characteristics of both common source and propagated outbreaks (sometimes referred as mixed outbreak).\n\nFor example, secondary person-to-person spread may occur after a common source exposure or an environmental vectors may spread a zoonotic diseases agent.\n\nMicrosoft founder and philanthropist Bill Gates wrote an essay published in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" in March 2015. In the essay, Gates states that an epidemic caused by a natural disaster or bioterrorism is the most likely event that could kill 10 million or more people all at the same time.\n\nGates and other experts suggest that the best way to prepare for an epidemic is to have a disease surveillance system, be able to quickly dispatch emergency workers, especially local-based emergency workers, and have a legitimate way to guarantee the safety and health of health workers.\n\nEffective preparations for a response to a pandemic are multi-layered. The first layer is a disease surveillance system. Tanzania, for example, runs a national lab that runs testing for 200 health sites and tracks the spread of infectious diseases. The next layer is the actual response to an emergency. According to U.S.-based columnist Michael Gerson, only the U.S. military and NATO have the global capability to respond to such an emergency.\n\nGates proposed that the world responded slowly to the Ebola virus outbreak because of a lack of preparation. Two weeks after the 2013 typhoon hit the Philippines, over 150 foreign medical teams were on the ground helping with injured victims. After the 2005 earthquake in Pakistan, a team of aid workers who had been helping Afghan refugees for several decades were able to get to the victims in less than 24 hours. Dr. Bruce Aylward, assistant director general for emergencies at the World Health Organization, says that in the case of the Ebola outbreak, \"there was no way anyone could guarantee the right of medical evacuation for people affected by Ebola.” Aylward said that for future emergency health workforces, it is critical to offer a \"duty of care\", meaning the ability to ensure that aid workers will be taken care of in terms of health and safety.\n\nThe CDC will scale back global disease prevention efforts by 80 percent by October 2019 due to a lack of funding (as funding had been temporarily increased in 2014 to address the Ebola epidemic). Bill Gates has warned that epidemic disease will kill more than 30 million people in the next 10-15 years.\n\nThe term epidemic derives from a word form attributed to Homer's \"Odyssey\", which later took its medical meaning from the \",\" a treatise by Hippocrates. Before Hippocrates, \"epidemios\", \"epidemeo\", \"epidamos\", and other variants had meanings similar to the current definitions of \"indigenous\" or \"endemic.\" Thucydides' description of the Plague of Athens is considered one of the earliest accounts of a disease epidemic. By the early 17th century, the terms endemic and epidemic referred to contrasting conditions of population-level disease, with the endemic condition at low rates of occurrence and the epidemic condition widespread.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11988528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11988528", "title": "Fantasia (performance)", "text": "Fantasia (performance)\n\nFantasia is a traditional exhibition of horsemanship in the Maghreb performed during cultural festivals and to close Maghrebi wedding celebrations. \"Fantasia\" is an imported name, the actual traditional term used is lab el baroud (\"the gunpowder play\"). It is mostly present in Algeria.\n\nThe performance consists of a group of horse riders, all wearing traditional clothes, who charge along a straight path at the same speed so as to form a line, and then at the end of the charge (about two hundred meters) fire into the sky using old muskets or muzzle-loading rifles The difficulty of the performance is in synchronizing the movement of the horses during acceleration of the charge, and especially in firing the guns simultaneously so that one single shot is heard.\nThe horse is referred to as a fantasia horse and are of Arabian, Andalusian or Barb stock\n\nThe fantasia is considered a cultural performance and a kind of martial art; it also symbolizes a strong relationship between the man and the horse, as well as an attachment to tradition\n\nIn Morocco,fantasia performances are usually during local seasonal, cultural or religious festivals, also called \"moussem\" (\"season\" in Arabic).\nOne such example is the chellalate Moussem. Some show-based restaurants offer a fantasia as part of the entertainment\n\nSome French, Sri Lankan and other Western artists have done oil paintings of the fantasia, including Edmon Vales, Eugène Delacroix, Étienne Dinet, Théo van Rysselberghe, Amiru K and Eugène Fromentin.\n\n"}
{"id": "1494741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494741", "title": "Flaming chalice", "text": "Flaming chalice\n\nA flaming chalice is the most widely used symbol of Unitarianism and Unitarian Universalism (UUism) and the official logo of the Unitarian Universalist Association (UUA) and other Unitarian and UU churches and societies.\n\nThe symbol had its origins in a logo designed by Austrian refugee Hans Deutsch for the Unitarian Service Committee (USC) (now the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee) during World War II. According to USC director Charles Joy, Deutsch took his inspiration from the chalices of oil burned on ancient Greek and Roman altars. It became an underground symbol in occupied Europe during World War II for assistance to help Unitarians, Jews, and other people escape Nazi persecution.\n\nLiving in Paris during the 1930s Deutsch drew critical cartoons of Adolf Hitler. When the Nazis invaded Paris in 1940, he abandoned all he had and fled to the South of France, then to Spain, and finally, with an altered passport, into Portugal. There, he met the Reverend Charles Joy, executive director of the Unitarian Service Committee (USC). The Service Committee was new, founded in Boston to assist Eastern Europeans, among them Unitarians as well as Jews, who needed to escape Nazi persecution. From his Lisbon headquarters, Joy oversaw a secret network of couriers and agents.\n\nAfter 1941, the flaming chalice symbol spread throughout Unitarianism in America and the rest of the world. This spread continued after Unitarians in North America merged with Universalists to form the Unitarian Universalist Association. The symbol gradually became more than a printed logo. By the 1960s, people like Fred Weideman of Dearborn, Michigan, were making flaming chalice jewelry. Some congregations began displaying the symbol in their worship spaces. At some point, three-dimensional chalices were made to be lit during worship services, but the origin(s) of this usage remains obscure.\n\nThe chalice is off center. This was taken from the Universalist symbol, the Off-Center Cross. The interpretation of the Off-Center Cross is that, while Universalism is based in Christianity, there is room for the Love and Wisdom of other religions.\n\nThe chalice symbol is often shown surrounded by two linked rings (\"see\" illustration). The two linked rings were based on the quote from the poet and life long Universalist Edwin Markham, \"He drew a circle that shut me out -- Heretic, rebel, a thing to flout. But Love and I had the wit to win: We drew a circle and took him in!\" It also served as a symbol signifying the joining of Unitarianism and Universalism in 1961. In August 1962, the newsletter of the Midwestern Unitarian Universalist Association began using a chalice symbol drawn inside the two interlocking rings, as drawn by Betty King.\n\nThere is no orthodox interpretation of the flaming chalice symbol. In one interpretation, the chalice is a symbol of religious freedom from the impositions of doctrine by a hierarchy and open to participation by all; the flame is interpreted as a memorial to those throughout history who sacrificed their lives for the cause of religious liberty. In another interpretation, the flaming chalice resembles a cross, symbolic of the Christian roots of Unitarian and Universalism.\n\nLater, associations were made between this symbol and the Hussites religious sect. Czech reformer Jan Hus (1369–1415) began reading the Bible to his congregations in their native language, while the Catholic Church demanded that the Bible only be read in Latin. Also, during communion, the chalice was reserved for the clergy; the laity only received bread. When a church council condemned the practice of priests who were giving the chalice to their congregants, Hus refused to support the condemnation. After his execution by burning in 1415, followers of Hus adopted the \"lay chalice\" as an important symbol of their movement.\n\nMany Unitarian Universalist and Unitarian congregations feature flaming chalice symbolism on their signs, logos, and in their meeting places. Some congregations light a chalice displayed prominently in their worship space while saying opening words at the beginning of weekly worship services. The texts used during these \"chalice lightings\" vary; some congregations use a ritual formula while at others these words are spoken extemporaneously.\n\nOutside of weekly worship services, many small gatherings of Unitarian Universalists incorporate a lit chalice, often accompanied by readings, as a reminder of the religious nature of the gathering. Unitarian Universalists, Unitarians and Universalists might also display a flaming chalice on clothing, jewelry, their cars, or in their homes as a symbol of their faith, much as Christians display a cross or as Jews display a Star of David.\n\nIn keeping with the traditions of religious pluralism and individualism, there is no requirement, doctrinal or otherwise, that congregations or adherents use or acknowledge the flaming chalice as a religious symbol.\n\nThe flaming chalice has been approved by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs for use as the cemetery emblem for fallen veterans who identify themselves with the Unitarian or Unitarian Universalist faith tradition.\n"}
{"id": "5275821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5275821", "title": "Gesellschaft zur Verfolgung von Urheberrechtsverletzungen e.V.", "text": "Gesellschaft zur Verfolgung von Urheberrechtsverletzungen e.V.\n\nThe Gesellschaft zur Verfolgung von Urheberrechtsverletzungen e.V. (GVU, Society for the Prosecution of Copyright Infringement) is a registered association under German law. According to its own description it works for the game and film industry and helps to protect intellectual property and to counter the illegal distribution of copied materials. For this purpose, the association cooperates with the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA).\n\nThe GVU was founded in the spring of 1984 and entered the register of associations in February 1985 for the first time. The headquarters were located first in Hamburg, since 2008 they have been in Berlin-Mitte. The GVU became known to a wider public by participating in campaigns such as \"pirates are criminals“ and investigations in the Kino.to case.\n\nAgainst the backdrop of a rapidly increasing demand for movies on VHS and an increase in \"piracy\" at the same time, film industry representatives agreed in early 1984 to set up a separate company to combat illegal distribution of copyrighted material. The decision was primarily driven by the motivation of the industry, to detach from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). The longtime chairman of the Bundesverband Audiovisuelle Medien (BVV, Federal Association of Audiovisual Media) and Managing Director of the German subsidiary of Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment, Bodo Schwartz, was key in the establishment of GVU.\n\nThe establishment of the GVU as a legally registered association was formally announced in the autumn of 1984 at the HiFi trade fair in Düsseldorf. The first constitution was adopted on December 17, 1984. It first entered the register of the city of Hamburg on February 27, 1985, finalising the establishment of the association on that day. Next to Bodo Schwartz, Paul Miller of the Cinema International Corporation (CIC) and Manfred Goller of the Verband der Filmverleiher (VDF, Association of Film Distributors) were members of the founding board.\n\nAfter exclusive funding of the GVU by the movie industry in its initial years, the organisations range of tasks expanded in 1997 to include computer games. On the one hand this was due to the parallels between illegal copies of films and games - both in the production and distribution - and on the other hand, the simpler distribution of unauthorized material over the emerging Internet. Sony Computer Entertainment’s membership of the GVU in 1997 initiated the membership of the entire Entertainment Software Association in the GVU in the following year.\n\nIn 2000, Microsoft entered the GVU as the first member of the software industry, which represented a significant milestone for the work of the GVU and directed the attention of the general public to the association. Simultaneously, this resulted in an expansion of the range of GVU’s tasks. As early as in 2001, the GVU took over the administration of the organization SAFE, which is responsible for the fight against copyright infringement in Switzerland. At the same time, cooperation intensified with the Austrian Verein für Anti-Piraterie (VAP, Association for Anti-Piracy) in the film and video industry, so the entire German-speaking area was fully covered.\n\nThe statutes of the GVU provides that the board consists of a chairman and at least three others. The GVU is represented jointly by at least two board members. Currently (as of November 2012) the committee includes Vincent de La Tour (Chairman), Dr. Holger Ensslin, Violetta Psofiou, Ralph Tübben, Alexander Skipis and Dr. Bernd Fakesch. According to the Commercial Register there are committees for finance, legal and technology. Next to the executive board the association has a full-time executive director who is responsible for the daily operations and reports to the Board. Dr. Matthias Leonardy currently holds this position, who previously worked as a general counsel for the German eBay Group.\n\nWork and structure of the GVU was mainly characterized by Bodo Schwartz, who was on the executive board for over 20 years and led it as Chairman for a long time. He also represented the GVU to media and shaped the image of the association in the public, including through various interviews. Schwartz retired from his position of CEO of Twentieth Century Fox in 2002, and retired from the GVU in October 2006. His retirement speech in late January 2007 was held by Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger.\n\nIn 2011, a total of about 50 companies and organizations were represented as a member of the GVU. In the field of film this includes virtually all major Hollywood studios, such as Sony Pictures, Twentieth Century Fox, Paramount Pictures, Warner Bros. and Walt Disney Studios. Members from the gaming industry include Ubisoft, Microsoft, Activision, Konami and Koch Media as well as respective affiliates of the major film studios. In addition, in its Annual Report 2011, the service providers arvato, Cinram, OpSec and Rovi got quoted as members.\n\nA special role is played by the membership of numerous professional organizations, in which the interests and positions of certain industries are bundled. So for example currently the Bundesverband Musikindustrie (BVMI, Federal Association of Music Industry), the Bundesverband Informationswirtschaft, Telekommunikation und neue Medien (BITKOM, German Association for Information Technology, Telecommunications and New Media) and the Bundesverband Interaktive Unterhaltungssoftware (BIU, Federal Association of Interactive Entertainment Software) belong to the GVU. The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), one of the foremost organizations against copyright infringement in the English speaking world, is a full member too.\n\nOverall, in 2011, nine organizations, 21 films- and 15 games providers and five other companies supported the GVU. Over the last five years the number of members has remained largely constant. However, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, the association lost some companies from the movie industry. The most prominent example in this case is the production and distribution company Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, which in 2007 was still listed as a member of the GVU, but no longer in the following year. MGM went into administration in 2010 and withdrew from other industry associations.\n\nSince 2007, the GVU has published annually a list of its members. Organizations and companies indirectly involved in the GVU through third-party associations are not explicitly listed in it.\n\nThe activities of the Association focuses on preventing economic losses of its members, resulting from unauthorized copying and its dissemination. The GVU estimated the loss at several hundred million euros annually. In addition to those defined in the constitution, the association based its efforts primarily on copyright law.\n\nThe association applies a large part of its resources to the actual detection of copyright infringements. The action is driven by the view that government agencies alone cannot monitor the entire market for unlicensed content, which is why the GVU tries to fill this gap. The employees of the GVU, including former police officers and commissioners, systematically scour the relevant sources of illegal copies, especially on the Internet. Unlike other organizations, by its own admission the GVU does not primarily aim at end-consumers, rather, it targets mainly the \"big fishes\". Besides those people who for example record a movie at the cinema or make copies from a computer game, these increasingly include the operators of so-called Trackers.\n\nThe GVU mainly focuses on large, internationally active release groups where copyrighted products are reproduced and distributed systematically, especially for profit. In its work, the association - if possible - accesses to public registers, for example, to reveal the real people behind a shell company. Due of their private-sector activity, the GVU may not identify IP addresses directly. Instead the association directs this as evidence to the relevant authorities. This is usually done as part of criminal procedure, which then leads to public prosecutorial investigations. Unless a criminal procedure is actually opened, an employee of the association often act as an expert witness. Not every complaint will automatically lead to a successful prosecution, for example the GVU had to make a total of three applications in the case of Kino.to.\n\nAs far as it is known to date, the GVU does not claim damages from warez users according to civil law. Instead the association allows its members the freedom to make possible claims for losses incurred. However, the association engages in strongly communicating its legal opinion in individual cases. Particularly in cases related to so-called illegal streaming of copied content, many legal assessments and opinions remain debatable.\n\nIn addition to its investigative activities the GVU does intensive public relations, which aims to raise awareness of copyright infringement. In the years 2009 to 2011 members of the association participated in nearly 100 events and reached about 2.000 participants through their speeches. In addition, since the late 80s the GVU has offered seminars for police officers and prosecutors, where they can learn about the consequences of \"piracy\" as well as the activities of the association.\n\nIn 1990, the GVU launched a prevention program on the topic of holography, a technology making it easier for retailers and consumers to identify unauthorized copied media. In addition, the association was known to a wider audience through the campaign \"Pirates are criminals\". This was produced by a subsidiary of the Central Association of German Film Theatres, where the GVU sits on the advisory board. During the World Cup 2006 an action of the umbrella organization MPAA was supported by Pelé.\n\nSince 2008, the GVU has performed annually the so-called ROOF-industry forum together with VAP and SAFE, which recently took place in the Kalkscheune venue in Berlin. At the event, lawyers, representatives of the games and movie industries are brought together with trade associations and other stakeholders under the slogan \"prevention and education\". In 2011, the study of digital content usage (short DCN study) received large attention, since it was the first to cover the specific uses of legal and illegal online content. The study was prepared by the GVU and the Bundesverband Musikindustrie (Federal Association of Music Industry) as well as the Börsenverein des Deutschen Buchhandels (Association of German Book Trade).\n\nBeside the main activities, GVU also gives advice to politicians and represents its interests there. For example, the association - as well as others around the globe - requested a \"piracy\" warning. This should be presented to an Internet user as soon as it first wants to call a pirated copy, but this remains controversial in Germany. In the course of this particular position, the GVU criticized the Federal Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, the association has complained for years that in case of copyright infringement there is a right of access to Internet service providers, but this would fail due to the lack of storage of communication data (\"web problem\").\n\nThe GVU also calls to execute the missing third basket of the reform of copyright law at last. Likewise, the trend towards trivialisation of copyright infringement by individual politicians criticized repeatedly, most recently in an article by Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Paul van Dyk in TIME.\n\nThe investigations conducted by the association were influenced by technological progress over the years: After the beginning of the 80s the fight against pirated VHS tapes were in the spotlight, many prosecutions in the 90s and the following years related to the distribution of movies and games via P2P networks. Since 2010 streaming has taken an increasingly larger space.\n\nThe number of cases opened in the years 2007 to 2011 fell from 576 to 204. The decrease is mainly due to the fact that since 2008 many prosecutors have focused on those investigations in which more than 200 copies of a work were produced. The GVU in its own words has adopted this trend and focuses its investigative activities increasingly on major cases.\n\nIn addition to the operations that stern directly from GVU investigations, the association supports those proceedings initiated by the relevant legal authorities. In addition, each year several proceedings are officially reported, which were initiated jointly by law enforcement agencies and the GVU. About a quarter of all cases result in a verdict or penalty order.\n\nIn recent years, the GVU has uncovered many release groups and other networks, some of which stand out because of their size or importance. Especially if in the course of the investigation a house search takes place, the respective cases and the activities of the association experienced increased media attention. Mentioned in the annual reports of the GVU important procedures include the following:\n\n\nIn the following years, the association wants especially to tackle the financing of \"piracy\". The aim of the operation is to prevent professional service of ad-funded websites with pirated works.\n\nThe most important proceeding of the GVU in the last decade was against Kino.to. In June 2011 Kino.to was one of the 50 most visited sites in Germany and was thus well known to the general public. According to the film industry over 96 per cent of visitors were located in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. At Kino.to it was possible to view tens of thousands of videos via so-called Streams, including numerous high-quality movies and TV series.\n\nSince Kino.to has become available in March 2008, the GVU was determined to go against its backers. According to the GVU, the process was difficult, as those behind Kino.to had specifically concealed their identities. For example, the top-level domain .to was chosen, as the responsible authority in Tonga does not releases any information about the respective owners of domains. Only when the third formal complaint by the Association was reported to the authorities in Dresden on April 28, 2011, the desired outcome was achieved: In early June, in raids across several European countries, several persons were arrested who were directly involved in Kino.to - including the owner Dirk B.\n\nMainly responsible for the success was the Integrierte Ermittlungseinheit Sachsen (INES, Integrated Detection Unit Saxony). During the course of process Kino.to was shut down on the suspicion of the backers forming a criminal organization and copyright infringement on an industrial scale. A message relating to the criminal investigation is now found at Kino.to. What is seen in the film industry as a major success fuelled huge criticisms by the majority of Kino.to users.\n\nAs a direct result of the closure of Kino.to, Anonymous started an attack on the Web server of the GVU, which finally led to an overload and failure of the website. In addition under the name KinoX.to a portal got created which is a direct descendant of Kino.to. The GVU has now also initiated an investigation into this portal. In addition, the association and authorities are investigating the advertising and marketing of Kino.to and KinoX.to.\n\nA Trojan, which had been discovered for the first time on 20 March 2012, used the logo of GVU without permission of the Association. It targets and infects PCs running Microsoft Windows XP or later versions and claims to have locked the PC on behalf of the GVU, as pirated content had been detected on it. In fact not a single file on the hard disk is checked; however the user is prompted to pay a fee in order to regain access to the computer. Usually, the requested amount is between 50 and 100 euros and is to be paid via paysafecard or (now defunct) Ukash.\n\nMeanwhile, numerous variants of the GVU Trojan are circulating purporting to be a program of the Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik (BSI, Federal Office for Information Security) or the Gesellschaft für musikalische Aufführungs- und mechanische Vervielfältigungsrechte (GEMA, Society for musical performing and mechanical reproduction rights). Due to the widespread use of the Trojan, in August 2012 the GVU released its first statement regarding the malware, aimed in particular at the malware authors. It was speculated that the Trojan was written by operators of illegal streaming portals in order to open up new financial sources. The page KinoX.to which strongly resembles Kino.to was used for the mass dissemination of new variants of the malware according to GVU.\n\nIn January 2006 the GVU was itself under investigation. The state prosecution of Ellwangen accused the association of having promoted the illegal distribution of copyrighted material. As the accusation details the association had allegedly had financial dealings with an administrator of the so-called IOH server, over which numerous release groups had collected and distributed copied content. In addition, the association got accused of directly providing hardware for the operation of the server.\n\nDuring the course of the investigation the business premises of the GVU in Hamburg, as well as the home of a senior employee, were searched. The GVU has officially confirmed the raid and, according to the authorities, made available all of the information. Due to the particular urgency of the case, the action gained widespread media attention. However, suspicions against the association have not been confirmed. The investigation has since halted.\n\nAlso, during another investigation, the role of the GVU was criticised: The Kiel District Court said that during the course of proceedings against a suspected software pirates, it is essential to ensure the independence of police investigative work. Specifically, there were complaints that an employee of the GVU had worked as an expert in the process and at the same time had a free hand in the analysis of seized computers. The requirement of impartiality, not only for judges but also for prosecutors and the police had, in their opinion, not been fully safeguarded. Investigating authorities were prohibited to privatize their work.\n\nAlso, the strategy of the GVU in luring software pirates through a so-called honey pot trap has remained a subject of criticism. For example, during the course a raid in autumn 2007 suspicions were raised that the GVU and other organizations had installed open FTP servers on network, intended for the use by release groups, thus enabling the determination release group members based on their IP address. According to the unanimous opinion of experts, this approach is, at least legally, unobjectionable.\n\nIndividual media outlets have criticised the GVU’s close proximity to lawyers, prosecutors, police and internet service providers, although naturally these kind of co-operations are part of the work of any interest group. The Association’s close cooperation with various other organizations is repeatedly criticized, especially during its annual Industry Forum.\n\nIn August 2010, the GVU was suspected of having caused the unjustified removal of several posts on the video platform Vimeo, which had been published under a Creative Commons license and are therefore available to all. Among other contents, \"You are a terrorist\" and \"Electric Reporter\" were affected. During the course of the investigation into the case it was revealed that the removal of the content was not initiated by the association, but by the company OpSec Security, based in Munich. The authors Alexander Lehmann and Mario Sixtus were able to obtain an injunction against the company and the GVU has since explicitly distanced itself from the company. According to the GVU, OpSec Security had at no point been contracted to clear videos from Vimeo in its name.\n\n"}
{"id": "50371223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50371223", "title": "Idealism (arts)", "text": "Idealism (arts)\n\nIn the arts, Idealism encourages imagination and attempts to realize a mental conception of beauty, a standard of perfection, juxtaposed to aesthetic naturalism and realism.\n\n"}
{"id": "681410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=681410", "title": "Idol (franchise)", "text": "Idol (franchise)\n\nIdols (also known as SuperStar in some countries) is a reality television singing competition format created by British television producer Simon Fuller and developed by Fremantle. The format began in 2001 with the British television series \"Pop Idol\"; its first adaptation was the Polish series \"Idol\" in 2002. It has since become the world's most widely watched television franchise, as well as one of the most successful entertainment formats, adapted in over 46 regions around the world, with its various versions broadcast to 150 countries. An estimated worldwide audience between 3.2billion and 6.5billion viewers have watched variants of the show, and the franchise has generated more than in revenue.\n\nEach season, the series aims to find the most outstanding unsigned solo recording artist (or \"idol\") in a region. Originally aimed for pop singers, the series have since evolved to accept singers from different genres of music, such as rock, R&B, and country. Through a series of mass auditions, a group of finalists are selected by a panel of judges (which usually consists of artists and record producers) who offer critiques on their performances. The finalists then advance to the weekly live shows. On each live show, the contestants all sing, the television audience votes (by telephone or SMS), and then the contestant who receives the fewest votes gets eliminated. The final episode is the grand finale episode, when usually two, but sometimes three or four, finalists are left, and the contestant who gets the largest number of votes is declared the winner. The winner receives a recording contract, monetary prizes, and a title as their nation's \"Idol\", \"SuperStar\" or \"Star\". Sometimes one or more of the runners-up get recording contracts as well.\n\nThe various series have launched the careers of a number of highly successful recording artists around the world, including \"Idols\" winners Will Young of the United Kingdom, Kelly Clarkson and Carrie Underwood of the United States, Kurt Nilsen of Norway, Ryan Malcolm and Kalan Porter of Canada, Guy Sebastian of Australia, and Elvis Blue of South Africa. Contestants who did not win but have still gone on to prominence include Anthony Callea, Ricki-Lee Coulter and Jessica Mauboy of Australia, Carly Rae Jepsen of Canada, and Clay Aiken and Chris Daughtry of the United States, among many others. Some \"Idols\" contestants have also achieved success in acting and musical theater, most notably Academy Award winner Jennifer Hudson.\n\nIn 2001, British talent manager and television producer Simon Fuller created the British television series \"Pop Idol\". The series was developed by production company Fremantle and was broadcast on ITV on 6 October 2001. Fuller, along with television producer Nigel Lythgoe, was inspired to create the series by the New Zealand television series \"Popstars\", which was adapted in the United Kingdom as \"Popstars\" in January 2001. The first series of \"Pop Idol\" proved to be more popular than \"Popstars\", in part due to the chemistry of the judges and the success of its first winner Will Young.\n\n\"Pop Idol\"s success led to an interest for adaptations in other countries. Before selling the format, Fuller reached out for an out-of-court settlement with \"Popstars\" creator Jonathan Dowling, in which international versions of \"Idols\" will be prohibited to use the prefix \"Pop\" in their local titles. As such, Poland, the first country to adapt the format, named their version as simply \"Idol\". \"Idol\" was launched in 2002, months after the first series of \"Pop Idol\" ended.\n\nFuller, Lythgoe, and \"Pop Idol\" judge Simon Cowell attempted to sell the format in the United States in 2001, but the idea was met with poor response from major networks. Elisabeth Murdoch, daughter of News Corporation chairman Rupert Murdoch, persuaded her father to buy the rights for an American adaptation. The series, \"American Idol: The Search for a Superstar\", debuted on the Fox network on 11 June 2002. \"American Idol\" also featured Cowell as its judge, who also proved to be popular among the American audiences. \"American Idol\" quickly rose to the top of the U.S. TV ratings, due to the popularity of the judges (particularly Cowell) and its contestants, which were led by its first winner, Kelly Clarkson.\n\nThe success brought by \"American Idol\" led to even more adaptations in other countries, where the Dutch \"Idols\" became the top television series in the Netherlands during its airing.\n\nThe show is a reality television singing competition where the winner is selected by the audience voting. The show combines a number of elements previously used by other shows such as \"Popstars\" – mass auditioning, the search of a new star, and the use of a judging panel that critiques the audtioners' performance and selects the contestants. An important element is audience participation, where the audience may vote by telephone or text to decide which contestant can proceed further each week and ultimately win. According to the show creator, Simon Fuller, \"the interactivity was important because this would allow the audience to tell me who they liked best and this, in turn, would indicate to me who would have the most fans and eventually sell the most music and become the biggest stars.\" To this is added \"the drama of backstories and the real-life soap opera of the unfolding real-time events\" as the show is presented as a live competition event which drew \"more from a sporting concept of true competition\".\n\nEach show has at least one host that directs the show, introduces the singers and delivers the results of each episode including the finale. While some countries have one host (\"American Idol\": Ryan Seacrest, \"Indonesian Idol\": Daniel Mananta, \"New Zealand Idol\": Dominic Bowden), most shows have two co-hosts. As well as judges, some countries have adopted new members to the hosting/jury party.\n\nA preselected panel of music industry representatives tour some, if not all audition cities (depending on which show) to observe and advance those auditioning throughout the show up to and including the Grand Finale. The judges offer critiques and/or advice after each contestant performance, which can be positive or negative; \"Nouvelle Star 4\" for the first time in any country introduced a red and blue \"score card\" type system where the jury award a blue \"positive\" or red \"negative\" rating and in \"Nouvelle Star 14\", they introduced a scoring system where the jury give a point from a range of 1 to 10 after every mottoshow performance.\n\nAs many as five stable jury members have appeared in any one \"Idol\" season (\"Idol Poland 3\", \"Indonesian Idol 9\"), though some versions offer \"guest judges\" or special musical guests on the program to also offer advice.\n\nThe judges of some shows gain a lot of popularity outside of the show as well as the contestants, due to their being collectively known to have a \"caustic\" or raw & blunt attitude towards contestants' performances, notably Simon Cowell, Kyle Sandilands, Kuba Wojewódzki, Dieter Bohlen, Ian \"Dicko\" Dickson, Paul Moss, Ahmad Dhani, Titi DJ, Zack Werner, Wyngard Tracy and Anu Malik amongst others.\n\nAuditions are held in numerous places in any particular region or country that give most people (audition entry is bound by certain legal requirements such as age and citizenship for example) the chance to sing in front of musical/television producers and if successful, they advance to a recorded televised audition where the show \"judges\" advance up to 300 people in some countries to the next round.\n\nThe Theatre round is where a specially selected group of auditioners from all regional auditions converge (always in the host city) to perform in three sub stages: a \"chorus line\" in groups of 10 where free song choices are allowed, a \"trio\" (or less commonly a duo or quartet) where contestants must memorize a preselected song to perform and choreograph together, and finally a solo \"a cappella\" round where contestants sing a song of their own choice without musical backing in front of friends, family, judges & fellow contestants.\n\nEach stage of the theatre round, a number of contestants are eliminated and sent home by the judges, though in some countries there have been very few contestants brought back during the Wildcards show or by the disqualification or resignation of another contestant.\n\nIn \"American Idol\", this stage has been expanded to five stages (three in Hollywood, two in Las Vegas) since season 10.\n\nThe semi-final occurs usually live or pre-recorded (in some countries) where contestants sing in a television studio fully televised; again judges give critiques but beginning at this stage, home viewers vote via telephone and SMS (and in some countries other voting mechanisms including via Internet or via Red Button) who they want to stay in the competition. During the \"semi-final\" weeks, contestants receive a workshop tuition with a vocal coach to prepare their song of choice. The format started out with contestants only singing along to a piano, though other instruments & even a live band have been introduced to some versions.\n\nAn average semi-final usually consists of 18 to 50 contestants where they either perform in an even group of contestants (three groups of ten for example) or in a \"heat\" type semi-final where the contestants sing every week until all finalists have been chosen. During the format, a Wildcards feature was introduced which re-introduced past semi-finalists to receive a second chance to become a finalist, in some shows – the judges sometimes pick one or more contestants to advance as well as the viewers' vote. As of late, live audiences have been incorporated into the semi-final round.\n\nA results show of the semi-final usually airs either a few hours after the performance show or the night after where the results are given. Three or four contestants are told that they may have received highest votes, though only a selected two or three are put through to the finals.\n\nThe Live shows (a.k.a. Mottoshows, Spectacular shows or theme shows) are an elaborate and spectacular version of the semi-final. There is a weekly theme on which contestants must base their song choices, such as \"80s Hits\" or \"Hits of Elton John\" for example. In a bid to counter sagging ratings, contestants on \"Australian Idol\" were allowed to bring instruments on stage with them and had the opportunity to sing original material from the 2006 season, a world first. Since then America and Canada have followed Australia's lead. Again a results show follows the show; this time it may include group performances, musical guests or extra footage of the contestants' time on the show. The contestant/s with the lowest polled votes leaves the competition. The live shows continue until there are only two contestants left in the competition or three contestants in some cases.\n\nThe Grand Finale occurs when there are two (or, rarely, three and only once so far four) contestants left in the competition. This is the pinnacle of the entire series and often highest rated show; also for some countries, it is venued in a prestigious location (\"American Idol\": Dolby Theatre/Nokia Theatre, \"Canadian Idol\": John Bassett Theatre, \"Australian Idol\": Sydney Opera House, \"Philippine Idol\": Araneta Coliseum, \"Indonesian Idol\": Ecovention Ocean Ecopark/Hall D2 JIExpo, \"Idol Sweden\": Ericsson Globe, \"Singapore Idol\": Singapore Indoor Stadium). In this final stage a specially awarded song is sung by both remaining contestants which is ultimately slated to be released as the winner's debut single though recently in some countries this has been phased out.\n\nDuring the extended results show, there are usually group performances and/or special musical guests. Also, it has the best moments of the series which leads up to the announcement of the winner, which is determined by the highest number of votes. When that happens, he or she will perform an encore of the coronation single which sometimes includes pyrotechnics/fireworks.\n\nWhile the show's premise is to find one winner with promises of a recording deal and other frugal benefits, the Idol series often has several contestants who go onto the same route of fame, whether they be finalists, semi-finalists, or even auditioners. Key examples of this from \"American Idol\" include Clay Aiken (second place, season 2) and Chris Daughtry (fourth place, season 5, through his band Daughtry), who have each outsold all \"American Idol\" winners except Kelly Clarkson and Carrie Underwood; Jennifer Hudson (seventh place, season 3), who would later win the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress; and William Hung, who turned his off-key season 3 audition into a recording career and has outsold some finalists.\n\nOften, a studio compilation album and/or a CD single is made to promote the show. In some cases, DVDs of highlights of the show will be released. While these releases have sold well in countries including the United States and Australia, many countries did not release CDs after the first series.\n\nSince season 6, \"American Idol\" has sold only promotional downloads instead of CDs. For season 6, it sold studio-recorded MP3 and performance video downloads of the finalists on its website; no CDs were sold prior to the post-\"Idol\" releases of winner Jordin Sparks and runner-up Blake Lewis. For season 7, audio and video downloads are sold exclusively through the iTunes Store, which became a sponsor in that season; the iTunes downloads have included audio of all semi-finalist performances, studio recordings and performance videos for all finalists, videos of finalist group performances, and audio and video performances from the \"Idol Gives Back\" episode.\n\nSony Music is the general record company associated and affiliated with the Idols format in most countries, though countries like Iceland, Vietnam and Kazakhstan have affiliate labels as they do not have a local Sony Music subsidiary. FremantleMedia and Sony Music were related through common parent Bertelsmann, which owns 90.4% of FremantleMedia's immediate parent RTL Group and previously owned 50% of joint venture Sony BMG from 2004 to 2008. Since 2011, Universal Music Group replaced Sony Music Entertainment as the general record company associated and affiliated with the Idols format in most countries.\n\nThere been a total of 275 Idols winners worldwide\n\nA notable commonality among Idol-format shows is the theme logo & intro style.\nMany different versions of the Idol logo and show intro have been created since Idol's inception in June 2001.\n\nThe basic plan for the logo is an oval with the particular show's name centered in custom lettering based on a common font (Kaufmann). Mostly the name of the show is written horizontally, however occasionally part of the name is angled upwards.\n\nThe original \"Pop Idol\" logo featured an enhanced star in the logo. The star also appeared briefly on the \"American Idol\" logo, but was scrapped early in the Season 1 auditions.\n\nThe logo for some countries comes with an underline on the words SuperStar, or Idol, such as \"Deutschland sucht den Superstar\", \"Hrvatski Idol\", Hrvatska traži zvijezdu, \"Super Star\", \"Hay Superstar\", \"Nouvelle Star\", \"Narodniy Artist\", \"Super Idol\", and \"Pinoy Idol\" (which also has a raised word). \"Turkstar\" has the only Idol logo to not use the common font style. As part of a relaunch after the first season, the French \"Nouvelle Star\" logo was changed to purple – the only logo to depart from the standard blue palette until Arab \"SuperStar\" season five had changed to the same color scheme also.\n\nThe original version of the \"Idol\" intro was created by Liquid TV Graphics in London which started with the dark blue Idol logo descending on the screen. A CGI human figure appears, with arms raised, intended to be the 'Idol' of the show's name. While the Idol figure sings, and then walks, images of guitars, microphones, cameras, and airplanes flow by, representing the life of a superstar. During this, the gender of the figure alternates between male and female. Finally, the figure is again in front of the Idol logo, raising hands in victory. The \"American Idol\" intro was altered each season from Season 2, including new sound effects and replacing the jet airplanes with waving flags. The flag concept was also used in the \"Indian Idol\" intro, as well as displays of famous national landmarks appearing in the first scene.\n\nIn 2005, a new version of the \"Idol\" intro was created by Aerodrome Pictures in Los Angeles which first appeared on the Season 4 premiere of \"American Idol\". The intro starts with the \"Idol\" logo without the dark blue background spinning in the American and Canadian version while the other Idol formats only glows and sparkles then the logo zooms in featuring a long section of the CGI \"Idol\" figure riding an open elevator past large vertical screens and displays and then walking down a stylized tunnel to a stage, where the figure starts to perform. On this basic template, the American and Canadian versions are customized, with past \"Idol\" winners appearing on the screens in the American version, while the Canadian version's screens feature Canadian landmarks. The American & Canadian versions last for 30 seconds; the new intro sequences for other \"Idol\" shows only last 15 seconds, with no customization and instead of the logo being 'stuck down' to the outside of the tunnel, it is pasted over the top. Also, the intro sequence for Nouvelle Star has a purple and blue color scheme instead of the standard light blue/light green.\n\nIn 2008, a new version of the \"Idol\" intro was created and introduced by BLT & Associates in Los Angeles on the \"American Idol\" 7th season finals. The intro starts with the Idol logo spinning behind a gyroscope then features real male and female Idol figures passing horizontal and arc displays then walking to an arena where the two figures start to perform. Finally, only one figure raises his/her hands in victory in front of a huge arc display then zooms out to the atmosphere and to space, where the title of the show zooms out in front of planet Earth. The ending title of this intro is similar to the Universal Pictures logo of 1990 (for the starry background) and in 2012 (for the earth model). The American, Australian, Canadian, Croatian, Latin American and Swedish versions are customized by featuring their past Idol winners in the horizontal and arc displays and last for 30 seconds. Other versions are also customized and last for 30 seconds without featuring their past winners. Some of the Idols versions didn't use the Gyroscope theme in the intro, such as Indian Idol and Deutschland sucht den SuperStar (Germany). Indian Idol used the Tunnel theme for the intro from 2007 to 2010 and in next season after that, 2012, Indian Idol used the 'Hall of Idols' theme, while Deutschland sucht den SuperStar used the 'Tunnel' theme for the intro until 2012, until in 2013 till present, Deutschland sucht den SuperStar uses its own intro. Only the French version lasts for 20 seconds.\n\nIn 2011, a new version of the \"Idol\" intro was created once again by Aerodrome Pictures in Los Angeles which first appeared on the Season 10 premiere of \"American Idol\". The intro starts with a stage being spotted under a spotlight from the sky. Then, a stylized bridge leading towards a screen is shown. Winners of \"Idol\", as well as notable alumni from past seasons are shown on the screen. The camera turns to a pyramid-like shape blooming and a CGI figure appears. Depending on the figure's gender in the intro, the figure would yield a different action in front of the \"American Idol\" logo and the huge \"IDOL\" word string (in \"American Idol\" and \"Indonesian Idol\" (not shown anymore since Season 9) but not in \"Arab Idol\"): the male figure raises his hand in victory and strikes a pose while the female figure raises her arms in victory before bowing down. Sometimes, a female figure will appear.\n\nIn 2013, a new version of the \"Idol\" Intro was created on the Season 10 premiere of \"Deutschland sucht den Superstar\". The new intro begins with a mysterious person with a microphone at the mouth. As previous posting Intro male and female talents are displayed. They sing and dance on the big stage. In the meantime, always a person who appears followed a path. On that path along former candidates from earlier seasons are displayed on screens.\n\nIn 2014, a new version of the \"Idol\" intro was created by The Mill in Los Angeles which first appeared on the Season 13 premiere of \"American Idol\". The intro starts with a hole opening up. Then, the gyroscope logo comes out of the hole. A crowd cheers in a stage. Finally, the gyroscope logo appears with the Roman numerals \"XIII\" below the logo. The intro was also used in the South African version of Idol.\n\nIn 2015, a new version of the \"Idol\" intro was created and appeared on the Season 14 premiere of \"American Idol\".\n\nIn 2016, a new version of the \"Idol\" intro was created and appeared on the Season 15 premiere of \"American Idol\".\n\nIn 2016, a new version of the \"Idol\" intro was created and appeared on the Season 5 premiere of \"Idols\" in Netherland.\n\nAmerican Idol's revival on ABC was accompanied with a Disney-like intro. It starts with several shooting stars falling from the sky before curving up and circling the neon American Idol logo with fireworks in the background at the end. This opening is much shorter than the previously used intros. It acts as an integrated part of a longer opening introduction in each episode rather than a standalone opening theme as in previous seasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57306928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57306928", "title": "InterDance Fest", "text": "InterDance Fest\n\nThe InterDance Fest is the largest contemporary dance festival in Southeastern Europe. It is held in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The festival was established in 2010 by the Aster Dance Club in cooperation with the Berlin Dance Institute , the World DanceSport Federation and the MTV Dance Europe television network. It is open to contestants from the ages of 6 to 50, but also showcases non-competitive performers above the age of 50. It consists of competitive and non-competitive programmes that include Hip Hop, Jazz Dance, Street dance, Disco, Breakdancing, West Coast Swing, Electric Boogie, Salsa, Argentine tango, Mambo, Cha-cha-cha, Majorette performances, Cheerleading, Zumba, Belly Dance and others. The festival also hosts the European Salsa Championships. The 2017 edition hosted over 4,000 performers representing 84 international dance clubs from 46 different countries. \n\nThe Aster Dance Club was founded in 1986 in Sarajevo, then part of SFR Yugoslavia and was named after American dancer, choreographer and actor, Fred Astaire. It was originally part of the Slobodan Princip \"Seljo\" Student Cultural Club. The club was a founding member of the Bosnian Dance Federation, but ceased to exist in 2000. In 2014 the club was reestablished by former members. That same year it founded the festival in cooperation with the acclaimed Berlin Dance Institute, the World DanceSport Federation and MTV Dance Europe. In 2017, the organizers signed a cooperation agreement with the 2019 European Youth Olympic Winter Festival. \n\nThe festival is organized in April and lasts for three days. Its format is 19 competitive and 7 non-competitive dance programmes that are held for the first two days of the festival and represent contemporary dance styles from four different continents. The third day, organized in cooperation with the International Dance Organization, is reserved for programmes that fall under Performing Arts: Tap Dance, Musical Theatre, Contemporary ballet, Lyrical dance and Concert dance. Numerous panels of international judges decide on the winner of each competitive programme. \n\n"}
{"id": "41241172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41241172", "title": "Kingdom Hearts χ", "text": "Kingdom Hearts χ\n\n, stylized as Kingdom Hearts χ[chi], is a Japanese role-playing browser game developed by Nomura, SENA, and published by Square Enix for web browsers as the eighth installment in the \"Kingdom Hearts\" series. Gameplay involves players navigating a customized avatar through Disney-inspired worlds fighting enemies, along with taking down bosses in multiplayer matches in competition with other teams. A version of the game for mobile devices, Kingdom Hearts Unchained χ, was released as the ninth installment of the series in Japan in September 2015, and worldwide in 2016. In April 2017, \"Unchained χ\" was rebranded as Kingdom Hearts Union χ[Cross].\n\n\"Kingdom Hearts χ\" is a prequel to the \"Kingdom Hearts\" series as a whole, taking place more than 100 years prior. It takes place before the Keyblade War, which established the organization of the \"Kingdom Hearts\" universe as of the original game. The player assumes the role of a Keyblade wielder who joins one of five factions led by Keyblade Masters fighting for control of the limited light existing in the world. \"Unchained χ/Union χ\" acts as a sequel, retelling part of the story of \"Kingdom Hearts χ\" before diverging and telling a new story set after its events. The game's plot is connected to \"Kingdom Hearts III\", the next main entry in the series. The title refers to the χ-blade, a weapon central to the series' story arc.\n\nThe game was designed as a playing experience that newcomers to the series could come to. Its presentation was compared to that of a fairy tale, as depicting the usual style of the series would have been difficult on the platform. Both Tetsuya Nomura and Yoko Shimomura, veterans from the main series, returned as director and composer respectively. The game received favorable reception from critics. A companion film, \"Kingdom Hearts χ Back Cover\", was released as part of \"Kingdom Hearts HD 2.8 Final Chapter Prologue\" in January 2017.\n\n\"Kingdom Hearts χ\" is a role-playing video game set in the universe of \"Kingdom Hearts\" which includes original characters and locations as well as ones from Disney and \"Final Fantasy\" media properties. Before beginning, players create their own character. Players can customize the gender, hair, and clothing, and choose accessories themed after both Square Enix and Disney universes present in the \"Kingdom Hearts\" series. Story missions are unlocked by the player. After a certain amount of the available content has been completed, new story missions become available. Players navigate their surroundings by dragging their cursor across the screen. Players navigate different worlds, defeating monsters known as the Heartless. The base game is free to play, with optional microtransactions. Actions use up AP, which can be replenished by either waiting or by using potions, which can be earned or bought. Rare items such as special cards can also be purchased. Alongside the single-player mode, there is a multiplayer mode where teams of players take on Raid Bosses, gigantic Heartless with high HP.\n\nEnemies appear on-screen, and can be engaged by clicking on them. During the player's turn, three cards are randomly drawn from a deck of nine, each resulting in an attack. If the cards' combined strength and attached skills are insufficient to exhaust the enemy's HP, the heartless will counterattack. If the player survives this attack, or continues by spending additional AP, a new turn begins. Upon defeating an enemy, the player earns Lux (which unlocks rewards as it accumulates, but resets weekly), experience points (through which the player advances in level), and Munny (an in-game currency). The player also earns Fragments, cards based on the characters original to the \"Kingdom Hearts\" series and those from Disney and \"Final Fantasy\" franchises: the fragments are imbued with different properties depending on the character, such as physical or elemental strikes. Players can level up their cards to improve their attack and defense. Players can strengthen their Keyblade using materials found in each world, and new Keyblades are acquired as the story progresses. Each strengthens different types of cards; for example, Starlight is an all-around Keyblade offering boosts for Power-, Speed- and Magic-type cards, while the \"Snow White\"-inspired Treasure Trove is Power-type focused.\n\nThe mobile version of the game, entitled \"Kingdom Hearts Unchained χ\", shares multiple gameplay features with its browser counterpart: the main exception is that this version is tailored for a touch screen. The ability to travel freely between different Disney worlds is also replaced with a stage system. These stages, called quests, are confined to specific areas of specific worlds. Instead of spending AP on individual actions, AP is paid to start a quest, and the player can attack as many enemies, collect as many materials, and open as many chests as he or she can find before defeating a target Heartless. If the player's HP is fully depleted, a choice is offered between forfeiting all progress in the quest or continuing to fight by spending Jewels, a new general-purpose in-game currency. Lux is considered another name for character-leveling experience points. Clothing, hair, and accessories are obtained through Avatar Boards, which each contain an array of nodes on branching pathways. These nodes are unlocked, in set sequences, with Avatar Coins, and may also yield such benefits as increased limits for AP and HP. Cards from the browser version are here replaced by Medals, which are no longer drawn randomly in battle. Instead, each equipped Medal is presented one at a time, and the player is given the choice of attacking one enemy, attacking all enemies (dealing less damage), or using the special attack granted by the Medal (provided the Keyblade's special attack gauges are sufficiently filled). Medals can be combined with matching Medals to improve their special attacks.\n\"Kingdom Hearts χ\" is set in the distant past, prior to the other games in the series. The game begins before the legendary Keyblade War, a conflict sparked due to disputes between Keyblade wielders over the light that created the world, triggering a calamity that reshaped the world into that seen in the rest of the \"Kingdom Hearts\" series. Prior to the war, a Keyblade Master known only as the Master of Masters bestows a Book of Prophecies to five of his six apprentices, the Foretellers, before disappearing. The book has the ability to predict and even manifest objects and people from the future, from which the five Foretellers learn of a prophecy foretelling the world's destruction. In order to prevent this, the Foretellers use their books to manifest future worlds and defeat the Heartless infesting them in order to gather and hoard pieces of light, called Lux. Each Foreteller creates their own \"Union\" themed around their individual animal icon: Unicornis, governed by Master Ira; Anguis, governed by Master Invi; Leopardos, governed by Master Gula; Vulpeus, governed by Master Ava; and Ursus, governed by Master Aced. The player character, a newly awakened Keyblade wielder, chooses to support one of the Unions and works to ensure the chosen faction's supremacy.\n\n\"Kingdom Hearts Unchained χ\" takes place after the events of \"Kingdom Hearts χ\" in a data simulation of the world, with the player reliving the past to forget the events of the Keyblade War. \"Unchained χ\" initially repeats the story of the original, but diverges partway through the narrative. New stories feature the player forming a new team with four other Keyblade wielders, who become friends. Other major story events that do not involve the player are delivered via game updates, serving to expand on the story of \"Kingdom Hearts χ\" and continue the narrative after the events of the Keyblade War.\n\nA newly awakened Keyblade wielder, who is controlled by the player, is given a choice of joining one of five \"Unions\". Once the player chooses, they are brought to Daybreak Town and assaulted by an army of Heartless coming through a portal. Before the player is overwhelmed, however, one of the Foretellers arrives and pursues the Heartless back through their portal. A Dream Eater named Chirithy, which had been accompanying the Foreteller, is tasked with aiding the player in his training and explains their destiny. The player must use their Keyblade to collect Lux and stop the Heartless from conquering every world and spreading darkness. The player then visits illusions of future Disney worlds under Chirithy's direction, where they interact with the locals and help defeat the hordes of Heartless. As they continue, Chirithy explains that the Foretellers had discovered a prophecy within the Book of Prophecies of a great battle in which the light would be defeated and the world would be consumed by darkness. To save the future, the Foretellers began to use the book's powers to project the future into their era, growing more powerful to save the light from final defeat. Chirithy also converses with one of the Foretellers and another Chirithy regarding concerning events.\n\nIn Daybreak Town, the player befriends Ephemer, another Keyblade wielder from a rival Union. He wishes to explore the mysterious tower in the center of town where the Foretellers reside. The player agrees to help, but Ephemer mysteriously disappears shortly thereafter. Later, the player meets another wielder from Ephemer's Union named Skuld, who is investigating his disappearance. The two also witness the Foretellers fighting one another, believing there to be a traitor among them, and encounter Keyblade wielders who have been corrupted into Heartless as well as the other Chirithy, who has been turned into a Nightmare. Investigating the Foretellers' tower, the three are caught by Ava, who challenges them to a duel. Upon defeat, Ava reveals that she has been recruiting new members to the Dandelions, a group of elite Keyblade wielders strong enough to resist the darkness, who will be sent to another world in order to avoid being caught in the impending war and to help rebuild the world in its aftermath. She explains that Ephemer was one of those chosen, and offers the same to Skuld and the player; Skuld accepts, but the player is uncertain. As time passes, other wielders accuse one another of stealing Lux, and the Foretellers begin rallying more wielders to their Unions to bolster their forces for the coming war.\n\nSeeking a solution, the player, Skuld and Chirithy seek out Gula, who claims the only one who could stop this is the Master of Masters, who had disappeared along with the sixth apprentice, Luxu. Ava tracks down Luxu, who claims he wants to see the end of the impending Keyblade War after discovering what is written on the \"Lost Page\" of the Book of Prophecies. When Luxu reveals the identity of the traitor and that everything has been part of the Master's plan, Ava attacks Luxu in a duel, ringing the clock bell and starting the war. Skuld returns to the Dandelions and the player encounters Nightmare Chirithy, who claims responsibility for turning wielders to Heartless and attacks the player before being defeated and dissolving into darkness. A few days later, the Keyblade War begins and the player battles as long as they can before collapsing in exhaustion. The war ends with numerous Keyblades planted in the ground, forming the Keyblade Graveyard, and the player sees Chirithy, Skuld, and Ephemer approach them before losing consciousness.\n\nSometime later, Chirithy awakens the player in Enchanted Dominion, lying to the player that the events of the Keyblade War were all a dream. Behind a wall of thorns, Maleficent congratulates herself on traveling back to this past version of her world, confident that Sora and his friends cannot follow, and makes plans to conquer it.\n\nA flashback set before the Keyblade War depicts the Master of Masters giving Ava a list of five Keyblade wielders who are to become the new Union leaders. He instructs her to give each of them a special rulebook to follow, along with a Book of Prophecies for one specific person. In another flashback, one of the new leaders chosen, Strelitzia, secretly follows the player throughout their journey, being fascinated with them. As the war starts and she realizes the player is not a Dandelion, she tries to find them and convince them to join, but she is ambushed and killed by an unknown figure, who steals her rulebook to pass themselves off as one of the chosen five. \n\nAfter the end of the Keyblade War, the Dandelions reside in a simulated Daybreak Town, with all but the Union leaders made to forget what had happened. Ephemer meets up with Skuld in the Keyblade Graveyard, revealing that they are two of the new Union leaders selected by Ava. They are met by two others, Ventus and Brain, followed by a fifth, Lauriam. The five return to the Foretellers' tower, where they agree to keep the world's destruction secret and form a new united Union, Union Cross, to prevent the past from repeating. While speaking with Ephemer and Skuld, Chirithy reveals that the player has been having nightmares, with their memories of the Keyblade War beginning to resurface. Ephemer warns them that a stronger source of darkness is coming and plans to strengthen Union Cross to stop it. Lauriam begins searching for clues to his little sister Strelitzia's disappearance, turning to a girl named Elrena for help. Meanwhile, Maleficent is frustrated by her inability to undo her own defeat, but an unknown figure explains that the world is only a data simulation, created due to the Book of Prophecies' loss of power without the Master or Foretellers present. Refusing to let her stay due to the damage her knowledge of the future could cause, the figure teaches her how to move forwards through time.\n\n\"Kingdom Hearts χ\" was co-directed by Tetsuya Nomura, one of the series' creators, and Tatsuya Kando, who had previous directed Nintendo DS game \"The World Ends with You\". The game's music was composed by Yoko Shimomura, a regular contributor to the series' music. The game was co-developed by Square Enix and Japanese studio Success Corporation. Square Enix originally handled the planning and design itself, but due to their developers' inexperience with creating browser games, development was transferred to the Success Corporation, who were familiar with the process. Despite multiplayer elements being included, the game was \"fundamentally single-player\", as with most other entries in the series. Chirithy, the player characters' companion, was designed around the concept of a supportive yet unobtrusive guide. Nomura based the character's design on the Scottish Fold domestic cat.\n\nDue to difficulties that arose adapting the core \"Kingdom Hearts\" experience into a browser game, the presentation was designed in a fairy tale-style instead of the locations encountered previously by series protagonists Sora and Riku. And because the game was to be played with a mouse instead of a game controller, the gameplay focus became simple controls and \"flashy\" battles. In an interview, Nomura stated that the work on developing \"Kingdom Hearts χ\" was paused for a time so developers could work on \"Kingdom Hearts III\". He also stated that at the time they were exploring ways to allow more fans of the series to experience the game. The stories of \"Kingdom Hearts χ\" and \"Kingdom Hearts III\" were both written at the same time, and thus share a strong connection. Despite this strong link, it was described by Tetsuya Nomura as a title where story was not the focus, and that its content was completely separate from the main series, making it accessible for newcomers. The game's title refers to the χ-blade (chi-blade), the original Keyblade and a weapon central to the \"Kingdom Hearts\" storyline.\n\nThe creation of a mobile version of the game was decided upon while the browser version was still being developed. Nomura initially planned to release both titles simultaneously, with each being updated individually. However, as development went on, the team's efforts became focused on finishing \"Kingdom Hearts χ\", and development on \"Unchained\" was halted. The original plan was to make the game a simpler version of its browser counterpart, but with the increasing specs of mobile devices, the workload increased, contributing to the halt to development. As mobile devices employ a different control set-up to web browsers, \"Unchained\" could not work simply as a port of \"Kingdom Hearts χ\". Its title \"Unchained\" signified the gameplay and story of \"Kingdom Hearts χ\" being released into a mobile format. One of the changes instituted during the games mobile remake was to make the gameplay more \"casual\" than \"Kingdom Hearts χ\", with battles being shorter and potentially easier.\n\nIn March 2017, ahead of the first anniversary of the North American launch of \"Unchained χ\", Square Enix announced that the mobile game would be rebranded as \"Kingdom Hearts Union χ[Cross]\" in April 2017. The relaunch of the title would include a new Union Cross multiplayer mode, allowing parties of up to six players to take on the Heartless together through the game's matchmaking feature as they communicate with each other through emotes and text options, and a theater mode to rewatch unlocked cutscenes and animations. In September 2018, a series of special \"Classic Kingdom\" minigames was added to \"Union χ\"; by completing certain objectives in these minigames, players were able to unlock a special \"Starlight\" Keyblade for use in \"Kingdom Hearts III\".\n\nThe game was first announced at the Tokyo Game Show on September 20, 2012 alongside \"Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix\" under the tentative title \"Kingdom Hearts for PC Browsers\". Its official title was announced in February the following year. To promote the game, codes for special items and in-game currency were included with first-print copies of \"Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix\". A closed beta for the title began on March 22, 2013, with Beta recruitment beginning on March 13. The test was available for users who had a Yahoo Japan ID, and included in-game items and currency as a starting gift. An open beta test began on July 9, 2013, and the game's official service began on July 18 of the same year. Since the original release, the game received constant updates to its story missions, providing additional content to players. In April 2016, Square Enix announced that the browser game would be discontinued in September 2016.\n\nDisney Interactive was forced to delay a western localization of the game when the game's publisher Playdom, a social game network owned by Disney, was shut down. Despite this, planning continued for a western release with playtesting taking place to improve upon the game before launch. The western localization was revealed to the public with the title \"Kingdom Hearts Unchained X\" at the 2015 Electronic Entertainment Expo. \"Unchained χ\" was released in Japan on September 3, 2015, in North America on April 7, 2016, and in Europe on June 16, 2016.\n\nIn September 2015, Square Enix announced a new game entitled \"Kingdom Hearts HD 2.8 Final Chapter Prologue\". The collection features \"Kingdom Hearts χ Back Cover\", a 60-minute cinematic film that focuses on the Foretellers, elaborating on their actions during the events of the game and their attempts to determine who is the traitor among them. It was released in January 2017.\n\nBy September 2013, 200,000 users were announced to have enrolled for the game. During the 2013 WebMoney Awards, \"Kingdom Hearts χ\" was among the games voted into the \"Best Rookie of the Year Good Games\" category, with most voters praising the game for being accessible to series newcomers, and fun to play. Richard Eisenbeis of Kotaku was generally positive, saying that despite it being similar to other Japanese browser games and using a micro-transaction system, it was \"an enjoyable little time waster.\"\n\n\"Unchained\" was also well received, with Metacritic giving the game a score of 70 out of 100 based on 5 reviews. AV Club praised the game for being a true \"Kingdom Hearts\" title despite its free to play format. \"TouchArcade\" gave the game three out of five stars, praising the music and graphics while calling the gameplay shallow with an overcomplicated user interface. Gamezebo called the title \"better than expected\", citing the game's fun but simple combat and extensive character customization but critiquing the game's dialogue for being cheesy and the story for being weaker than the console \"Kingdom Hearts\" titles. In the month after it was released, the mobile version was downloaded over two million times.\n"}
{"id": "12861394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12861394", "title": "Kiosko", "text": "Kiosko\n\nKiosko was an unsold television pilot for a multicultural music education television series for children produced by KPBS television in San Diego, California. It was nominated in 2008 for an Emmy award under the Children's Program or Special Category, Pacific Southwest Chapter of the National Television Academy.\n\nThe show's focus was on music education, using various forms of music from around the globe. It featured a combination of live action, puppetry, and animation, similar to \"Sesame Street\".\n\nThe pilot for the show was aired in August 2007, but the show was never picked up.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15316107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15316107", "title": "Kiss (Wilson novel)", "text": "Kiss (Wilson novel)\n\nKiss is a book for teenage readers, written by Jacqueline Wilson and illustrated by Nick Sharratt. It was published 2007 by Doubleday. The book revolves around a girl called Sylvie whose childhood friend Carl is struggling to come to terms with his sexuality.\n\nSylvie and Carl have been friends since they were little. They have called themselves boyfriend and girlfriend since they were small and Sylvie has always believed they would end up married. As they start high school, Carl drifts further and further away from Sylvie. One day, she wanders into the girls' bathrooms and finds Miranda, the most popular girl in school, there. Miranda asks Sylvie to go to her party after finding out about Sylvie's \"boyfriend\", whom she has taken a shine to, even though they haven't met. Sylvie accepts and then asks Carl about it, hoping that he will not go. To her dismay, Carl is eager to go and they meet Miranda and her friends. They play a game of Spin The Bottle and Sylvie wishes to be kissed by Carl. Unfortunately, he does not kiss her (but to Sylvie's surprise he kisses Miranda) and Sylvie realises that his feelings have changed. Carl invites Miranda, Sylvie and a boy called Paul to go bowling with him. Sylvie does not like Paul and is surprised when Carl tells Sylvie that he wanted to impress Paul by bowling.\n\nOn Carl's birthday, Miranda, Paul, Sylvie and Carl go to Kew Gardens since Carl is obsessed with glass. They all get lost while playing hide-and-seek. Miranda and Paul went on the train so Carl and Sylvie go with Carl's mother, Jules. Carl refused to see anyone after that night and later tells Sylvie that he is gay. Sylvie then finds out that Carl had found Paul during hide-and-seek and kissed him. Paul kissed him back for a moment 'like he really cared about [Carl]', but then pushed him away, claiming Carl is a pervert. Carl gets teased and picked on at school.\n\nLater, Sylvie goes to find Carl and sees the Glass Hut (where Carl keeps his glass collection) is ruined with glass everywhere. Sylvie gets cut and tells Jules, Mick (Carl's dad) and Jake (Carl's older brother) about the Glass Hut. They see Carl in the bushes all cut from smashing all the glass. He cut all his fingers and wrist and needed lots of stitches. Carl comes out to his mother at the hospital (when asked why he smashed the glass) and she tells him she has no problem with him being gay.\n\nMiranda and Sylvie bunk off school to meet Carl in McDonald's for lunch, and after hearing about how he is being bullied at school, Miranda persuades Sylvie to meet Carl after school, impressing all the boys who see them.\n\nIn the Glass Hut, Carl and Sylvie see all the damage. Sylvie thinks that Carl will not feel the same about her. Carl kisses her and says he will always love her, platonically. Sylvia states that it wasn't the kiss she was hoping for but is still satisfied.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7005417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7005417", "title": "Kyōshi", "text": "Kyōshi\n\nMostly written by low-ranking samurai and \"chōnin\" (townspeople), the form is closely related to \"kyōka\" (comic waka), and to \"kyōbun\", a form of prose writing which also uses only Chinese characters.\n\nŌta Nanpo is the best-known of \"kyōshi\" poets; the form was very popular for a short time, but declined quickly and disappeared after the turn of the 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "42964558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42964558", "title": "Languages in censuses", "text": "Languages in censuses\n\nMany countries and national censuses currently enumerate or have previously enumerated their populations by languages, native language, home language, level of knowing language or a combination of these characteristics.\n\nPashto and Dari (Persian) are the official languages of Afghanistan; bilingualism is very common. Both are Indo-European languages from the Iranian languages sub-family. Dari has always been the prestige language and a lingua franca for inter-ethnic communication. It is the native tongue of the Tajiks, Hazaras, Aimaks, and Kizilbash. Pashto is the native tongue of the Pashtuns, although many Pashtuns often use Dari and some non-Pashtuns are fluent in Pashto.\n\nOther languages, including Uzbek, Arabic, Turkmen, Balochi, Pashayi, and Nuristani languages (Ashkunu, Kamkata-viri, Vasi-vari, Tregami, and Kalasha-ala), are the native tongues of minority groups across the country and have official status in the regions where they are widely spoken. Minor languages also include Pamiri (Shughni, Munji, Ishkashimi, and Wakhi), Brahui, Hindko, and Kyrgyz. A small percentage of Afghans are also fluent in Urdu, English and other languages.\n\nThe official language of Algeria is Modern Standard Arabic (literary Arabic), as specified in its constitution since 1963. In addition to this, Berber has been recognized as a \"national language\" by constitutional amendment since May 8, 2002. Algerian Arabic and Berber are the native languages of over 99% of Algerians, with Algerian Arabic spoken by about 72% and Berber by 27.4%. French, though it has no official status, is widely used in government, culture, media (newspapers) and education (from primary school), due to Algeria's colonial history and can be regarded as being a \"de facto\" co-official language of Algeria. Kabyle, the most spoken Berber language in the country, is taught and partially co-official (with a few restrictions) in parts of Kabylie.\n\nThe \"de facto\" official language is Spanish, spoken by almost all Argentines.\nThe country is the largest Spanish-speaking society that universally employs \"voseo\", the use of the pronoun \"vos\" instead of \"tú\" (\"you\"), which imposes the use of alternate verb forms as well.\nDue to the extensive Argentine geography, Spanish has a strong variation among regions, although the prevalent dialect is \"Rioplatense\", primarily spoken in the La Plata Basin and accented similarly to Neapolitan language. Italian and other European immigrants influenced \"Lunfardo\"—the regional slang—permeating the vernacular vocabulary of other Latin American countries as well.\n\nThere are several second-languages in widespread use among the Argentine population:\n\nArmenian is the only official language. Due to its Soviet past, Russian is still widely used in Armenia and could be considered as \"de facto\" second language. According to a 2013 survey, 95% of Armenians said they had some knowledge of Russian (24% advanced, 59% intermediate) compared to 40% who said they knew some English (4% advanced, 16% intermediate and 20% beginner). However, more adults (50%) think that English should be taught in public secondary schools than those who prefer Russian (44%).\n\nAlthough Australia has no official language, English has always been entrenched as the \"de facto\" national language. Australian English is a major variety of the language with a distinctive accent and lexicon, and differs slightly from other varieties of English in grammar and spelling. General Australian serves as the standard dialect. According to the 2011 census, English is the only language spoken in the home for close to 81% of the population. The next most common languages spoken at home are Mandarin (1.7%), Italian (1.5%), Arabic (1.4%), Cantonese (1.3%), Greek (1.3%), and Vietnamese (1.2%); a considerable proportion of first- and second-generation migrants are bilingual. A 2010–2011 study by the Australia Early Development Index found the most common language spoken by children after English was Arabic, followed by Vietnamese, Greek, Chinese, and Hindi.\n\nNative language according to the census in 2009 <ref name=\"Population by language, sex and urban/rural residence\">United Nations Statistics Division: Demographic and Social Topics: Population: Statistics: Demographic Yearbook: Introduction: United Nations Demographic Yearbook: Statistics: Population Censuses' Datasets (1995 - Present): Ethnocultural characteristics: Population by language, sex and urban/rural residence. Select filters: Country or Area—>Azerbaijan, Year—>2009, Area—>Total+Urban+Rural, Sex—>Both Sexes+Male+Female, Apply Filters.</ref>\n\nArabic is the official language of Bahrain, though English is widely used. Bahrani Arabic is the most widely spoken dialect of the Arabic language, though this differs slightly from standard Arabic. Arabic plays an important role in political life, as, according to of Bahrain's constitution, an MP must be fluent in Arabic to stand for parliament. Among the Bahraini and non-Bahraini population, many people speak Persian, the official language of Iran, or Urdu, the official language of Pakistan. Malayalam and Nepali are also widely spoken in the Nepalese workers and Gurkha Soldiers community. Hindi is spoken among significant Indian communities. Many commercial institutions and road signs are bilingual, displaying both English and Arabic.\n\nIn the past, Belgium held a census each ten years, including a language census (/). Since 1932, the results of this census defined to which official language a municipality belonged (Dutch, French or German). However, this caused a lot of conflicts along the language border, in Brussels and its periphery (due to the Francization of Brussels). The territory of Belgium was consequently divided into four definitive official language areas and the language census was abolished, effective 1 September 1963. No national language censuses have been held since then.\n\nAccording to the last census in 2012 \nThe official language of Brunei is Malay. The Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports supports for a lingual movement aimed at the increased use of the language in Brunei. The principal spoken language is \"Melayu Brunei\" (Brunei Malay). Brunei Malay is rather divergent from standard Malay and the rest of the Malay dialects, being about 84% cognate with standard Malay, and is mostly mutually unintelligible with it. English and Chinese are also widely spoken, English is also used in business, as a working language, and as the language of instruction from primary to tertiary education, and there is a relatively large expatriate community. Other languages spoken include Kedayan, Tutong, Murut and Dusun.\n\nIn the Bulgarian census, the question about the mother tongue and the ethnic group is an optional one. The results among the people that have answered both questions according to the latest census in 2011 are:\n\nThere are abouts 292 living languages in China. The languages most commonly spoken belong to the Sinitic branch of the Sino-Tibetan language family, which contains Mandarin (spoken natively by 70% of the population), and other Chinese languages: Wu (including Shanghainese), Yue (including Cantonese and Taishanese), Min (including Hokkien and Teochew), Xiang, Gan, and Hakka. Languages of the Tibeto-Burman branch, including Tibetan, Qiang, Naxi and Yi, are spoken are spoken across the Tibetan and Yunnan–Guizhou Plateau. Other ethnic minority languages in southwest China include Zhuang, Thai, Dong and Sui of the Tai-Kadai family, Miao and Yao of the Hmong–Mien family, and Wa of the Austroasiatic family. Across northeastern and northwestern China, minority ethnic groups speak Altaic languages including Manchu, Mongolian and several Turkic languages: Uyghur, Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Salar and Western Yugur. Korean is spoken natively along the border with North Korea. Sarikoli, the language of Tajiks in western Xinjiang, is an Indo-European language. Taiwanese aborigines, including a small population on the mainland, speak Austronesian languages.\n\nStandard Mandarin, a variety of Mandarin based on the Beijing dialect, is the official national language of China and is used as a lingua franca in the country between people of different linguistic backgrounds.\n\nChinese characters used as the written script for the Sinitic languages for thousands of years. They allow speakers of mutually unintelligible Chinese varieties to communicate with each other through writing. In 1956, the government introduced simplified characters, which have supplanted the older traditional characters in mainland China. Chinese characters are romanized in the Pinyin system. Tibetan uses an alphabet based on an Indic script. Uyghur is most commonly written in a Perseo-Arabic script. The Mongolian script used in China and the Manchu script are both derived from the Old Uyghur alphabet. Modern Zhuang uses the Latin alphabet.\n\nCyprus has two official languages, Greek and Turkish. Armenian and Cypriot Maronite Arabic are recognized as minority languages. Although without official status, English is widely spoken. English features on road signs, public notices, and in advertisements, etc. English was the sole official language during British colonial rule and lingua franca (until 1960) and continued to be used (\"de facto\") in courts of law until 1989 and in legislature until 1996. A reported 80.4% of Greek Cypriots have command of the English language as second language (L2).<ref name=\"eurostat 49/2010\"></ref> Russian is widely spoken among the country's minorities, residents and citizens of post-Soviet countries, as well as Pontic Greeks. It is used and spoken by approximately 100,000 people, including Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Armenians, Pontic Greeks, Georgians and Bulgarians. Russian, after English and Greek, is the third language used on many signs of shops and restaurants, particularly in Limassol and Paphos. In addition to these languages, 12% speak French and 5% speak German.\n\nThe everyday spoken language of Greek Cypriots is Cypriot Greek and that of Turkish Cypriots is Cypriot Turkish. These both differ from their respective standard register quite significantly.\n\nThe first official censuses for the Czech lands (then part of Austria-Hungary) in the years 1869-1910 recorded each person's \"language of communication\" (\"obcovací řeč\"). This used to be criticised by linguistic minorities as representing the language of a person's surroundings rather than his or her own. The Czechoslovak censuses (1921, 1930, 1950, 1961, 1980) did not register respondents' language but \"národnost\" (ethnicity) which was to be assessed primarily, but not exclusively, on the basis of the person's \"maternal tongue\" (\"mateřská řeč\"). The 1970 census as well as modern censuses (1990, 2001, 2011) register both \"ethnicity\" and \"maternal tongue\" (which was, for example in the 2001 census, defined as \"the language in which your mother or the persons having raised you spoke with you during your childhood\"). The 2011 census form was the first to allow a person to claim two native languages. While certain options are habitually suggested in the form (in 2011: Czech, Slovak, Romani, Polish, German, sign language), the possibility \"Other\" can be chosen together with completing one's own specification. Unlike \"ethnicity\", this is an obligatory field in the form.\n\nAs the 2011 census introduced the possibility to state two native languages, the table below includes the number in both languages’ rows.\n¹ Including Moravian language (62,908 in 2011)\n\nDanish censuses did not include inquiries on languages. The last one was in 1970.\n\nSpeakers by mother tongue in census 2010.\n\n\nAccording to the 2011 Population and Housing Census (PHC 2011) 157 (up from 109 in 2000) different languages are spoken as native language in Estonia. Of those 25 have more than 100 speakers.\n\nEstonian is the official language of Estonia and 886,859 or 68.5% of permanent residents spoke it as native language. Russian is spoken by 383,062 (29.6%), Ukrainian by 8,012 (0.6%), Finnish by 2,617 (0.17%) and Belorussian by 1,663 (0.13%). Other languages have less than thousand speakers.\n\nThere are two official languages in the Faroe Islands, Danish and Faroese. According to the public census Hagstova Føroya in 2014, more than 90 percent had Faroese as their first language. The entire list of spoken languages in 2014 is:\n\nAccording to the Finnish constitution, the two national languages of Finland are Finnish and Swedish. About six per cent of the Finnish people speak Swedish as their mother tongue. The constitution also grants for the speakers of Sami, Romani and other languages the right to maintain and develop their language and culture. The right to use sign language is also set in the Finnish Language Act. In accordance with the Population Census Act, censuses are drawn every ten years, and the mother tongue of each resident is registered. However, key census data, including population by native language, are updated annually. According to the official statistics, speakers of 155 different languages have been registered. The censuses use the ISO 639-1 language classification.\n\nFrance recognizes but one language, French, declared national language. Other indigenous languages have no official status, although their teaching is tolerated in some places under specific conditions, and there has never been any question about languages in a French national census.\n\nHowever, the March 1999 census was associated with an INSEE survey \"Study of family history\" for 380 thousand people, including questions about language transmission.\n\nThe census 2011 and the West-German census 1987 did not inquire about language. Since the 2017 micro census, a survey conducted with a sampling fraction of 1% of the persons and households in Germany that supplies basic socio-demographic data and facilitates the ongoing monitoring of the labour market, a question asking \"Which language is being spoken predominantly in your household?\" was added, eighty years since the 1939 Census asked for the Mother tongue of the population.\n\nThe official language of Greece is Greek, spoken by 99% of the population. In addition, a number of non-official, minority languages and some Greek dialects are spoken as well. The most common foreign languages learned by Greeks are English, German, French, Spanish and Italian.\n\nMayan languages of Guatemala, are the linguistic varieties derived historically from protomaya . The protomaya is a protolengua hypothetically reconstructed by the comparative method and other techniques of historical linguistics, to diversify the language to be their separated by great distances speakers, different varieties became more and more different to become a set of talking different, that in many cases they lack of mutual intelligibility . Usually these speak Mayan languages are classified into 21 ( the next section gives the names and some additional information about each language).\n\nThe two official languages of Haiti are French and Haitian Creole. French is the principal written and administratively authorized language. It is spoken by all educated Haitians, is the medium of instruction in most schools, and is used in the business sector. It is also used in ceremonial events such as weddings, graduations and church masses. Haiti is one of two independent nations in the Americas (along with Canada) to designate French as an official language; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas \"départements\", or \"collectivités,\" of France. Haitian Creole, which recently undergone a standardization, is spoken by virtually the entire population of Haiti. Haitian Creole is one of the French-based creole languages. Its vocabulary is 90% derived from French, but its grammar and influences are from some West African, Taino, Spanish, and Portuguese languages. Haitian Creole is related to the other French creoles, but most closely to Antillean Creole and Louisiana Creole.\n\nOfficially English and Chinese are the two official language of Hong Kong. The definition of Chinese is somehow ambiguous as Chinese itself consists of a number of mutually unintelligible varieties. Cantonese is the major spoken language in Hong Kong and written in various form with Traditional Chinese characters. English is a variant of British English, though American English is also commonly used in Hong Kong.\n\nFrom 19th century, censuses have investigated what languages the people of Hong Kong speak. Hakka, Hoklo, and Tanka have lost importance over time. Cantonese has come to be spoken by the vast majority, though there are increasingly more Mandarin-speaking people, particularly since the turn of the millennium.\n\nStarting from 1880 the Hungarian census system was based on native language (the language spoken at home in the early life of the person and at the time of the survey), vulgar language (the most frequently used language in the family), and other spoken languages.\n\nNative language according to the last census in 2011\n\nIceland has been a very isolated and linguistically homogeneous island historically, but has nevertheless beheld several languages. Gaelic was native to many of the early Icelanders, the Icelandic or Norse language however prevailing, albeit absorbing Gaelic features. Later, northern trade routes brought German, English, Dutch, French and Basque. Some merchants and clergymen settled in Iceland throughout the centuries, leaving their mark on culture, but linguistically mainly trade, nautical or religious terms. Excluding these and Latin words, Icelandic has altered remarkably little since settlement, the island's residents living in seclusion.\n\nIcelandic is not only the national language, but is now “the official language in Iceland” by virtue of Act No 61/2011, adopted by parliament in 2011. Icelandic Sign Language was also officially recognised by law in 2011 as a minority language with constitutional rights and the first language of the Icelandic deaf community. During the time of Danish rule, Danish was a minority language in Iceland, although it is nowadays only spoken by a small number of immigrants.\n\nStudying English and Danish (or another Scandinavian language) is mandatory for students in compulsory schools and also part of many secondary-level study programmes, so knowledge of the two languages is widespread. Other foreign language frequently studied include German, Spanish and French.\n\nTemporary visitors and residents often make up a large portion of the population, especially in the capital Reykjavík.\n\nThe population of India in 1991 exhibited 19.4% bilingualism and 7.2% trilingualism.\n\nIndonesian is an official language but there are so many different languages native to Indonesia. According to Ethnologue, there are currently about 737 living languages, the most widely spoken being Javanese languages.\n\nA number of Chinese varieties, most prominently Min Nan, are also spoken. The public use of Chinese, especially Chinese written characters, was officially discouraged between 1966 and 1998.\n\nThe majority of the population speaks the Persian language, which is also the official language of the country, as well as other Iranian languages or dialects. Turkic languages and dialects, most importantly Azerbaijani language, are spoken in different areas in Iran. In southwestern and southern Iran, the Luri language and Lari language are spoken. In Kurdistan Province and nearby area's Kurdish is widely spoken. In Khuzestan, many distinct Persian dialects are spoken. Arabic is also spoken in Khuzestan. Notable minority languages in Iran include Armenian, Georgian, and Neo-Aramaic. Circassian was also once widely used by the large Circassian minority, but due to assimilation over the many years no sizable number of Circassians speak the language anymore.\n\nArabic is the majority language while Kurdish is spoken by approximately 10–15% of the population and Turkmen, the Neo-Aramaic language of the Assyrians and others, by 5%. Other smaller minority languages includes Mandaic, Shabaki, Armenian, Circassian and Persian. Arabic, Kurdish, Persian, and South Azeri are written with versions of the Arabic script, the Neo-Aramaic languages in the Syriac script and Armenian is written in the Armenian script.\n\nPreviously to the invasion in 2003, Arabic was the sole official language. Since the new Constitution of Iraq was approved in June 2004, both Arabic and Kurdish are an official languages, while Assyrian Neo-Aramaic and Turkmen language (referred to as respectively \"Syriac\" and \"Turkmen\" in the constitution) are recognized as a regional languages. In addition, any region or province may declare other languages official if a majority of the population approves in a general referendum.\n\nBased on the Iraqi constitution: \"The Arabic language and the Kurdish language are the two official languages of Iraq. The right of Iraqis to educate their children in their mother tongue, such as Turkmen, Assyrian, and Armenian shall be guaranteed in government educational institutions in accordance with educational guidelines, or in any other language in private educational institutions\".\n\nQuestions relating to the ability to speak the Irish Language are included in the census. The figures obtained have been criticised as inflated by cognitive biases, such as response bias or wishful thinking. The 2006 census included an additional question on frequency of speaking Irish.\n\nItalian censuses used to mainly observe, until recent times, the use of formal Italian language in its relationship with the use of other local languages (often considered as dialects), and they did not make comparisons with native languages other than Italian (in certain areas of Italy other languages are additionally official, such as German in Trentino-Alto Adige and other areas, Slovenian Slovenian in Friuli Venezia Giulia). \nMany reasons, indeed, still make it important to follow the evolution of the national official language, and among them are the late achievement of sufficient standards of literacy and of educational accomplishments, together with the particular and complex history of Italian languages/dialects and the wideness of their use in literature and in other forms of art (notably theatre and cinematography). Some of the languages spoken, different from Italian, which are in common use in Italy are, among the many, Sardinian, used in Sardinia, Sicilian used in Sicily, Friulian used in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Venetian used mainly in Veneto.\n\nWith the Istat's report of 2012, this comparison has been added, while in the previous 2006 report foreign languages were observed only as additional idioms spoken, and not as eventual mother tongues.\n\nAccording to the latest report, 53,1% of Italians aged 18 to 74 speak prevalently Italian at home, 56,4% speak it as their main language when interacting with friends, and 84,8% use it with outsider interlocutors. 5,8% is the percentage of other mother tongues speakers (but only 5,1% know Italian as their additional language). The knowledge of foreign languages is as follows:\n\nFrench, as an official language, is taught in schools and serves as a lingua franca in the country. Ethnic groups include Akan 42.1%, Voltaiques or Gur 17.6%, Northern Mandes 16.5%, Krous 11%, Southern Mandes 10%, other 2.8% (includes 30,000 Lebanese and 45,000 French; 2004). 77% of the population are considered Ivoirians. They represent several different peoples and language groups. An estimated 65 languages are spoken in the country. One of the most common is Dyula, which acts as a trade language as well as a language commonly spoken by the Muslim population.\n\nThe official language of Jamaica is English. Jamaicans primarily speak an English-African Creole language known as Jamaican Patois, which has become known widely through the spread of Reggae music. Jamaican Patois was formed from a base of mainly English words with elements of re-formed grammar, together with a little vocabulary from African languages and Native American words. Some archaic features are reminiscent of Irish English.\n\nMore than 99 percent of the population speaks Japanese as their first language. Japanese is an agglutinative language distinguished by a system of honorifics reflecting the hierarchical nature of Japanese society, with verb forms and particular vocabulary indicating the relative status of speaker and listener. Japanese writing uses kanji (Chinese characters) and two sets of kana (syllabaries based on simplified Chinese characters), as well as the Latin alphabet and Arabic numerals.\n\nBesides Japanese, other languages like Ryukyuan languages (Amami, Kunigami, Okinawan, Miyako, Yaeyama, Yonaguni), also part of the Japonic language family, are spoken in the Ryukyu Islands chain. Few children learn these languages, but in recent years the local governments have sought to increase awareness of the traditional languages. The Okinawan Japanese dialect is also spoken in the region. The Ainu language, which has no proven relationship to Japanese or any other language, is moribund, with only a few elderly native speakers remaining in Hokkaido. Most public and private schools require students to take courses in both Japanese and English.\n\nSome figures from the 2011 census:\n\n\"Source: STATEC - RP2011, Langue principale parlée au 1er février 2011, en %\n\n\"Source : STATEC - RP2011: Langues parlées au travail, à l’école et/ou à la maison au 1er février 2011 (réponses multiples possibles)\n\n\"Source : STATEC - RP2011: Nombre de langues parlées au 1er février 2011\n\nAs of the last national census in 2002, of the republic's 2,022,547 people, 67% speak Macedonian as their mother tongue. The next most common mother tongue is Albanian with 25% of the population. Other minority languages include Turkish (3.6%), Romani (1.9%), and the Serbo-croatian languages (1.6%).\n\nThe national or official language is Malay which is the mother tongue of the majority Malay ethnic group. The main ethnic groups within Malaysia comprise the Malays, Chinese and Indians, with many other ethnic groups represented in smaller numbers, each with its own languages. The largest native languages spoken in East Malaysia are the Iban, Dusunic and the Kadazan languages. English is widely understood in service industries and is a compulsory subject in primary and secondary school. It is also the main language spoken in most private colleges and universities. Beside that, English may take precedence over Malay in certain official contexts as provided for by the National Language Act, especially in the states of Sabah and Sarawak, where it may be the official working language.\n\nMalaysia contains speakers of 137 living languages, 41 of which are found in Peninsula Malaysia. The government provides schooling at the primary level in each of the three major languages, Malay, Chinese (Mandarin), and Tamil. Within these three there are a number of dialectal differences.\n\nMalta has two official languages: Maltese and English. Maltese is also the national language. Until 1934, Italian was also an official language in Malta. Having been governed by many different countries in the past, the Maltese population is generally able to converse in languages which are not native to the country, namely English and Italian.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, there were 377,952 people aged 10 and over, of whom 352,121 people (93.2%) declared to speak Maltese \"Well\", 248,570 (65.8%) declared to speak English \"Well\" and 93,401 (24.7%) declared to speak Italian \"Well\", out of a scale made of \"Well\", \"Average\", \"A little\" and \"Not at all\".\n\nThe official language of Mongolia is Mongolian, and is spoken by 95% of the population. A variety of dialects of Oirat and Buryat are spoken across the country, and there are also some speakers of Mongolic Khamnigan. In the west of the country, Kazakh and Tuvan, both Turkic languages, are also spoken. Mongolian Sign Language is the principal language of the deaf community.\n\nToday, Mongolian is written using the Cyrillic alphabet, although in the past it was written using the Mongolian script. An official reintroduction of the old script was planned for 1994, but has not taken place as older generations encountered practical difficulties. The traditional alphabet is being slowly reintroduced through schools.\n\nRussian is the most frequently spoken foreign language in Mongolia, followed by English, although English has been gradually replacing Russian as the second language. Korean has gained popularity as tens of thousands of Mongolians work in South Korea.\n\nInterest in Chinese, as the language of the other neighbouring power, has been growing. A number of older educated Mongolian citizens speak some German, as they studied in the former East Germany, while a few speak other languages from the former Eastern Bloc. Many younger people are fluent in the Western European languages as they study or work in, among other places, Germany, France and Italy.\n\nThe 2011 National census lists 123 languages spoken as a mother tongue (first language) in Nepal. Most belong to the Indo-Aryan and Sino-Tibetan language families. An overview of Nepali languages is found in the work of Toba, Toba, and Rai.\n\nThe official language of Nepal is Nepali (नेपाली), formerly called Khaskura then Gorkhali. According to the 2011 national census, the percentage of people with Nepali as the mother tongue is 44.6%.\n\nIn the Norwegian census of 1970, in limited areas in Northern Norway, people were identified by ethnicity and language. Such information has not been included in any census since then. During the 19th Century, the Norwegian government collected ethnicity and language information.\n\n\"Ethnologue\" lists 175 individual languages in the Philippines, 171 of which are living languages, while 4 no longer have any known speakers. Most native languages are part of the Philippine branch of the Malayo-Polynesian languages, which is itself a branch of the Austronesian language family. The only non-Austronesian language indigenous to the Philippines is Chavacano, a Spanish-based creole. According to the 1987 Philippine Constitution, Filipino and English are the official languages. Filipino is a standardized version of Tagalog, spoken mainly in Metro Manila and other urban regions. Both Filipino and English are used in government, education, print, broadcast media, and business. The constitution mandates that Spanish and Arabic shall be promoted on a voluntary and optional basis.\n\nNineteen regional languages act as auxiliary official languages used as mediums of instruction: Aklanon, Bikol, Cebuano, Chavacano, Hiligaynon, Ibanag, Ilocano, Ivatan, Kapampangan, Kinaray-a, Maguindanao, Maranao, Pangasinan, Sambal, Surigaonon, Tagalog, Tausug, Waray, and Yakan. Other indigenous languages such as, Cuyonon, Ifugao, Itbayat, Kalinga, Kamayo, Kankanaey, Masbateño, Romblomanon, and several Visayan languages are prevalent in their respective provinces. The Chavacano language, a creole language born from Spanish (of the Mexican and Peruvian strain), is also spoken in Cavite and Zamboanga. Languages not indigenous to the islands are also taught in select schools. Standard Mandarin is used in Chinese schools catering to the Chinese Filipino community. Islamic schools in Mindanao teach Modern Standard Arabic in their curriculum. French, German, Japanese, Korean, Spanish are taught with the help of foreign linguistic institutions, respectively, Alliance Française, Goethe-Institut, Japan Foundation, Korean Cultural Center or King Sejong Institute, and Instituto Cervantes. The Department of Education began teaching the Malay languages Indonesian and Malaysian in 2013.\n\nIn the 2002 census and 2011 census was the possibility to state more than one home language, while in 2011 census was also possibility to state native languages; the table below includes the number in all languages’ rows.\n\nThe official language of Portugal is Portuguese, which is spoken by the whole population. A small minority speaks Mirandese, recognized as a regional language, but all Mirandese speakers also speak Portuguese.\n\nArabic is the official language of Qatar, with Qatari Arabic the local dialect. Qatari Sign Language is the language of the deaf community. English is also widely spoken, and is considered to be a rising lingua franca, especially in commerce, to the extent that steps are being taken to try to preserve Arabic from English's encroachment. English is particularly useful for communication with Qatar's large expatriate community. In 2012, Qatar joined the international French-speaking organisation of La Francophonie as a new associate member, justifying its inscription by the consequent number of French speakers in the country (10% of the Qatari population would be francophone). Reflecting the multicultural make-up of the country, many other languages are also spoken, including Hindi, Malayalam, Urdu, Tamil, Nepali and Tagalog.\n\nRomanian is the official language of Romania. According to the last census in 2011 \n\nSingapore has four official languages. The four languages that are recognised by the Singapore Government are: English, Malay, Mandarin, and Tamil. They were chosen to correspond with the major ethnic groups present in Singapore at the time as well as for the following reasons: Mandarin had gained status since the introduction of Chinese-medium schools; Malay was deemed the \"most obvious choice\" for the Malay community; and Tamil for the largest Indian ethnic group in Singapore, in addition to being \"the language with the longest history of education in Malaysia and Singapore\". In 2009, more than 20 languages were identified as being spoken in Singapore, reflecting a rich linguistic diversity in the city. Singapore's historical roots as a trading settlement gave rise to an influx of foreign traders, and their languages were slowly embedded in Singapore's modern day linguistic repertoire.\n\nMalay is the national language of the country, although English is mainly used. English serves as the link between the different ethnic groups and is the language of the educational system and the administration. The colloquial English used in everyday life is often referred to as Singlish.\n\nThe government of Singapore has been promoting the use of Mandarin, the official form of Chinese in Singapore as well as mainland China and Taiwan, with its Speak Mandarin Campaign among the Chinese population. The use of other varieties of Chinese, like Hokkien, Teochew, Cantonese, Hainanese and Hakka, has been declining over the last two decades, although they are still being used especially by the older generations of the Chinese population.\n\nAbout 60% of Singapore's Indian population speaks Tamil as their native language. Other widely spoken Indian languages are Punjabi, Malayalam, Hindi and Telugu.\n\nAround 5,000 Peranakans, the early Chinese population of the region, still use the Hokkien-influenced Malay dialect that called Baba Malay.\n\nThirteen options are provided in response to the question \"Which two languages does \"(name)\" speak most often in this household?\", namely the eleven official languages, sign language and \"Other\".\n\nSpain is openly multilingual, and the constitution establishes that the nation will protect \"all Spaniards and the peoples of Spain in the exercise of human rights, their cultures and traditions, languages and institutions.\n\nSpanish (\"español\")—officially recognized in the constitution as Castilian (\"castellano\")—is the official language of the entire country, and it is the right and duty of every Spaniard to know the language. The constitution also establishes that \"all other Spanish languages\"—that is, all other languages of Spain—will also be official in their respective autonomous communities in accordance to their Statutes, their organic regional legislations, and that the \"richness of the distinct linguistic modalities of Spain represents a patrimony which will be the object of special respect and protection.\"\n\nThe other official languages of Spain, co-official with Spanish are:\n\nAs a percentage of the general population, Basque is spoken by 2%, Catalan (or Valencian) by 17%, and Galician by 7% of all Spaniards.\n\nIn Catalonia, Aranese (\"aranés\"), a local variety of the Occitan language, has been declared co-official along with Catalan and Spanish since 2006. It is spoken only in the \"comarca\" of \"Val d'Aran\" by roughly 6,700 people. Other Romance minority languages, though not official, have special recognition, such as the Astur-Leonese group (Asturian, \"asturianu\"; also called \"bable\", in Asturias and Leonese, \"llionés\", in Castile and León) and Aragonese (\"aragonés\") in Aragon.\n\nIn the North African Spanish autonomous city of Melilla, Riff Berber is spoken by a significant part of the population. In the tourist areas of the Mediterranean coast and the islands, English and German are widely spoken by tourists, foreign residents, and tourism workers.\n\nThe Sinhala language is spoken by the Sinhalese people, who constitute approximately 74% of the national population and total about 13 million. It utilizes the Sinhala abugida script, which is derived from the ancient Brahmi script. The Rodiya language, a dialect of Sinhala, is spoken by the low-caste community of chamodi veddhas. The Veddah peoples, totaling barely 2500, speak a distinct language, possibly a creolized form of an earlier indigenous language. The Tamil language is spoken by Sri Lankan Tamils, as well as by Tamil migrants from the neighboring Indian state of Tamil Nadu and by most Sri Lankan Moors. Tamil speakers number around 4.7 million. There are more than 50,000 speakers of the Sri Lankan Creole Malay language, which is strongly influenced by the Malay language.\n\nDutch is the sole official language, and is the language of education, government, business, and the media. Over 60% of the population speak Dutch as a mother tongue, and most of the rest speak it as a second language. In 2004 Suriname became an associate member of the Dutch Language Union. It is the only Dutch-speaking country in South America as well as the only independent nation in the Americas where Dutch is spoken by a majority of the population, and one of the two non-Romance-speaking countries on the continent, the other being English-speaking Guyana.\n\nIn Paramaribo, Dutch is the main home language in two-thirds of households. The recognition of \"Surinaams-Nederlands\" (\"Surinamese Dutch\") as a national dialect equal to \"Nederlands-Nederlands\" (\"Dutch Dutch\") and \"Vlaams-Nederlands\" (\"Flemish Dutch\") was expressed in 2009 by the publication of the \"Woordenboek Surinaams Nederlands\" (\"Surinamese–Dutch Dictionary\"). Only in the interior of Suriname is Dutch seldom spoken.\n\nSranan, a local creole language originally spoken by the creole population group, is the most widely used language in the streets and is often used interchangeably with Dutch depending on the formality of the setting.\n\nSurinamese Hindi or Sarnami, a dialect of Bhojpuri, is the third-most used language, spoken by the descendants of South Asian contract workers from then British India. Javanese is used by the descendants of Javanese contract workers. The Maroon languages, somewhat intelligible with Sranan Tongo, include Saramaka, Paramakan, Ndyuka (also called \"Aukan\"), Kwinti and Matawai. Amerindian languages, spoken by Amerindians, include Carib and Arawak. Hakka and Cantonese are spoken by the descendants of the Chinese contract workers. Mandarin is spoken by some few recent Chinese immigrants. English, Spanish and Portuguese are also used. Spanish and Portuguese are spoken by Latin American residents and their descendants and sometimes also taught in schools.\n\nThe public discourse about Suriname's languages is a part of an ongoing debate about the country's national identity. The use of the popular Sranan became associated with nationalist politics after its public use by former dictator Dési Bouterse in the 1980s, and groups descended from escaped slaves might resent it. Some propose to change the national language to English, so as to improve links to the Caribbean and North America, or to Spanish, as a nod to Suriname's location in South America, although it has no Spanish-speaking neighbours.\n\nFrom 1850 until 2000, Switzerland had a census every 10 years. Beginning in 2010, they switched to a yearly system which used a combination of municipal citizen records and a limited number of surveys. Data on the main language spoken by citizens and non-citizen residents has been collected since at least 1970. Of the four official languages, German is the most commonly spoken, with 64.94% of the total population speaking it in 1970 and 63.67% in 2000. French was spoken by 18.09% in 1970 and 20.38% in 2000, while Italian was 11.86% in 1970 and 6.46% in 2000. The fourth national language, Romansh was spoken by just 0.8% in 1970 and 0.48% in 2000. In the 2000 census, English (1.01%), Spanish (1.06%), Portuguese (1.23%), Serbian and Croatian (1.42%) and Albanian (1.30%) were all spoken by significantly more residents than Romansh.\n\nSelected languages from the 1970 to 2000 census are given in the following table:\nArabic is an official language of Syria. Several modern Arabic dialects are used in everyday life, most notably Levantine in the west and Mesopotamian in the northeast. Kurdish (in its Kurmanji form) is widely spoken in the Kurdish regions of Syria. Armenian and Turkish (South Azeri dialect) are spoken among the Armenian and Turkmen minorities.\n\nAramaic was the lingua franca of the region before the advent of Arabic, and it is still spoken among Assyrians, and Classical Syriac still used as the liturgical language of various Syriac Christian denominations. Most remarkably, Western Neo-Aramaic is still spoken in the village of Ma'loula as well as two neighboring villages, 35 miles (56 km) northeast of Damascus. Many educated Syrians also speak English and French languages.\n\nPeople in Turkmenistan (when it was still a part of the Russian Empire) were enumerated by native tongue in the 1897 Russian Empire Census. In addition to the Soviet Union enumerating people by ethnicity for its entire existence, Turkmenistan also enumerated people by ethnicity in its only post-Soviet census in 1995.\n\nPeople in Ukraine (when it was still a part of the Russian Empire) were enumerated by native tongue in the 1897 Russian Empire Census. In addition to the Soviet Union enumerating people by ethnicity for its entire existence, Ukraine also enumerated people by ethnicity and native language in its only post-Soviet census in 2001.\n\nLanguage use and English-speaking ability are currently collected in the American Community Survey (an ongoing statistical survey by the U.S. Census Bureau, sent to approximately 250,000 addresses monthly, or 3 million per year).\n\nA variety of questions on language use were asked in the censuses from 1890 to 1970.\n\nThe three questions below were asked in the census in 1980, 1990, and 2000 and are the same questions asked in the American Community Survey.\n\nThe coding operations used by the Census Bureau puts the reported answers from the question \"What is this language?\" into 382 language categories of single languages or language families. \nThese categories represent the most commonly spoken languages other than English at home in the U.S. Due to small sample counts, data tabulations are not generally available for all 382 detailed languages. Instead, the Census Bureau collapses languages into smaller sets. These sets of languages were originally developed following the 1970 Census and are grouped linguistically and geographically.\n\n, the simplest collapse recodes the 382 language codes into four major language groups: Spanish; Other Indo-European languages; Asian and Pacific Island languages; and All Other languages. A more detailed collapsing puts the 382 codes into 39 languages and language groups.\n\nPeople in Uzbekistan (when it was still a part of the Russian Empire) were enumerated by native tongue in the 1897 Russian Empire Census. The Soviet Union (to which Uzbekistan also belonged) enumerated people by ethnicity for its entire existence. Uzbekistan has not conducted any censuses at all since 1989.\n\nVatican City enumerated people by ethnicity in 1948.\n\nPeople in Vietnam were enumerated by ethnicity in 1979, 1989, 1999, 2009 and 2014.\n\nYemen enumerated its population by ethnicity in 1994. The British Colony of Aden (which is within Yemen's current borders) enumerated its population by ethnicity in 1946 and 1955.\n"}
{"id": "3054522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3054522", "title": "Literary award", "text": "Literary award\n\nA literary award is an award presented in recognition of a particularly lauded literary piece or body of work. It is normally presented to an author.\n\nMost literary awards come with a corresponding award ceremony. Many awards are structured with one organization (usually a non-profit organization) as the presenter and public face of the award, and another organization as the financial sponsor or backer, who pays the prize remuneration and the cost of the ceremony and public relations, typically a corporate sponsor who may sometimes attach their name to the award (such as the Orange Prize).\n\nThere are awards for several forms of writing such as poetry and novels. Many awards are also dedicated to a certain genre of fiction or non-fiction writing (such as science fiction or politics). There are also awards dedicated to works in individual languages, e.g. the Miguel de Cervantes Prize (Spanish), and the Camões Prize (Portuguese), and the Man Booker Prize, the Pulitzer Prize, and the Hugo Awards (English). \n\nSome of the most notable literary prizes include the Nobel Prize in Literature, the Franz Kafka Prize and the Jerusalem Prize. \n\nThere are also spoof awards, such as The \"Literary Review\" Bad Sex in Fiction Award, the Bookseller/Diagram Prize for Oddest Title of the Year, and the Bulwer-Lytton Fiction and Lyttle Lytton Contests, which are both given to deliberately bad sentences.\n\nThere are also literary awards that are targeted specifically to encourage the writing of African-Americans and authors of African descent. Two national awards that do this are Ernest J. Gaines Award for Literary Excellence, which was established in 2007 by the Baton Rouge Area Foundation, and the Hurston-Wright Legacy Award, which is given by the National Community of Black Writers.\n\nAustralian author Richard Flanagan wrote a critique of literary awards, saying \"National prizes are often a barometer of bourgeois bad taste.\" He says juries can be influenced by vendettas, paybacks and payoffs, \"most judges are fair-minded people. But hate, conceit and jealousy are no less human attributes than wisdom, judgment and knowledge.\" Book prizes will sometimes compete with one another, and these goals don't always coincide with anointing the best winner. Sometimes juries can't decide between two contentious books so they will compromise with a third inoffensive bland book. He says there are now so many awards and prizes it has diluted the prestige of being a prize-winning book. Flanagan clarifies he is not against literary awards, but believes they should not be taken too seriously as a form of support for literary culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31689940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31689940", "title": "Mawa language (Nigeria)", "text": "Mawa language (Nigeria)\n\nMawa is an extinct and unattested language of Nigeria. It was apparently different from a language of Chad also known as Mawa, and so is unclassified.\n"}
{"id": "1750031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750031", "title": "Middle Persian literature", "text": "Middle Persian literature\n\nMiddle Persian literature is the corpus of written works composed in Middle Persian, that is, the Middle Iranian dialect of Persia proper, the region in the south-western corner of the Iranian plateau. Middle Persian was the prestige dialect during the era of Sassanid dynasty. \n\nThe rulers of the Sassanid Empire (224–654 CE) were natives of that south-western region, and through their political and cultural influence, Middle Persian became a prestige dialect and thus also came to be used by non-Persian Iranians. Following the Arab conquest of the Sassanian Empire in the 7th century, shortly after which Middle Persian began to evolve into New Persian, Middle Persian continued to be used by the Zoroastrian priesthood for religious and secular compositions. These compositions, in the Aramaic-derived Book Pahlavi script, are traditionally known as \"Pahlavi literature\". The earliest texts in Zoroastrian Middle Persian were probably written down in late Sassanid times (6th–7th centuries), although they represent the codification of earlier oral tradition. However, most texts, including the \"zand\" commentaries and translations of the Zoroastrian canon, date from the 9th to the 11th century, when Middle Persian had long ceased to be a spoken language, so they reflect the state of affairs in living Middle Persian only indirectly. The surviving manuscripts are usually 14th-century copies. \n\nOther, less abundantly attested varieties of Middle Persian literature include the 'Manichaean Middle Persian' corpus, used for a sizable amount of Manichaean religious writings, including many theological texts, homilies and hymns (3rd–9th, possibly 13th century). Even less-well attested are the Middle Persian compositions of Nestorian Christians, evidenced in the Pahlavi Psalter (7th century); these were used until the beginning of the second millennium in many places in Central Asia, including Turfan (in present-day China) and even localities in Southern India.\n\n\"Pahlavi literature traditionally defines the writings of the Zoroastrians in the Middle Persian language and Book Pahlavi script which were compiled in the 9th and the 10th centuries CE.\"\n\nThe literary corpus in Middle Persian in Book Pahlavi consists of:\nThese divisions are not mutually exclusive. Several different literary genres are represented in Pahlavi literature.\n\nThe \"zand\" corpus include exegetical glosses, paraphrases, commentaries and translations of the Avesta's texts. Although such exegetical commentaries also exist in other languages (including Avestan itself), the Middle Persian \"zand\" is the only to survive fully, and is for this reason regarded as 'the' \"zand\".\n\nWith the notable exception of the \"Yasht\"s, almost all surviving Avestan texts have their Middle Persian \"zand\", which in some manuscripts appear alongside (or interleaved with) the text being glossed. These glosses and commentaries were not intended for use as theological texts by themselves but for religious instruction of the (by then) non-Avestan-speaking public. In contrast, the Avestan language texts remained sacrosanct and continued to be recited in the Avestan language, which was considered a sacred language.\n\nThe corpus of medieval texts of Zoroastrian tradition include around 75 works, of which only a few are well known:\n\nA manuscript known as the \"miscellaneous codex\" or \"MK\" (after Mihraban Kaykhusrow, the Indian Zoroastrian copyist who created it), dated to 1322 but containing older material, is the only surviving source of several secular Middle Persian works from the Sassanian period. Among the texts included in the unique \"MK\" are:\n\nEspecially important to cultural and law historians is the \"Madayan i Hazar Dadestan\", \"Book of a Thousand Judgements\", a 7th-century compilation of actual and hypothetical case histories collected from Sassanian court records and transcripts. Only a single manuscript of this unique text survives.\n\nScribes also created several glossaries for translating foreign languages. Of these, two have survived:\n\nSeveral other works, now lost, are known of from references to them in other languages. Works of this group include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "856451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=856451", "title": "Nehru jacket", "text": "Nehru jacket\n\nThe Nehru jacket is a hip-length tailored coat for men or women, with a mandarin collar, and with its front modelled on the Indian achkan or sherwani, a garment worn by Jawaharlal Nehru, the Prime Minister of India from 1947 to 1964.\n\nThe Nehru jacket's history can be traced back to the Mughal years when the courtier's choga became the garment of the rich and the powerful. In its later avatars, it became the north Indian male's idea of formal wear — sherwani, achkan, the bandhgala and finally the bandi. The apparel was created in India in the 1940s as \"Band Gale Ka Coat\" (English: \"Closed Neck Coat\") and has been popular on the Indian subcontinent ever since, especially as the top half of a suit worn on formal occasions.\n\nUnlike the achkan, which falls somewhere below the knees of the wearer, the Nehru jacket is shorter. Jawaharlal Nehru, notably, never wore a Nehru jacket.\n\nThe jacket began to be marketed as the \"Nehru jacket\" in Europe and America in the mid 1960s. It was briefly popular there in the late 1960s and early 1970s, its popularity spurred by growing awareness of foreign cultures, by the minimalism of the Mod lifestyle and, in particular, by the Beatles and subsequently the Monkees. \n\nSeveral villains in the \"James Bond\" film series, including Dr. No, Ernst Stavro Blofeld, Karl Stromberg and Kamal Khan, appear wearing a Nehru jacket. The Master, the arch-enemy of The Doctor in \"Doctor Who\" is also seen wearing one in his first and sixth incarnations.\n\n"}
{"id": "407433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407433", "title": "New musicology", "text": "New musicology\n\nNew musicology is a wide body of musicology since the 1980s with a focus upon the cultural study, aesthetics, criticism, and hermeneutics of music. It began in part a reaction against the traditional positivist musicology (focused on primary research) of the early 20th century and postwar era. Many of the procedures of new musicology are now (2016) considered standard, although the name more often refers to the historical turn rather than to any single set of ideas or principles. Indeed, although it was notably influenced by feminism, gender studies, queer theory, postcolonial studies, and critical theory, new musicology has primarily been characterized by a wide-ranging eclecticism.\n\nNew musicology seeks to question the research methods of traditional musicology by displacing positivism, working in partnership with outside disciplines, including the humanities and social sciences, and by questioning accepted musical knowledge. New musicologists seek ways to employ anthropology, sociology, cultural studies, gender studies, feminism, history, and philosophy in the study of music. \n\nIn 1980 Joseph Kerman published the article \"How We Got into Analysis, and How to Get Out,\" calling for a change in musicology. He asked for \"a new breadth and flexibility in academic music criticism [musicology]\" (Kerman, 1994, 30) that would extend to musical discourse, critical theory and analysis. In the words of Rose Rosengard Subotnik: \"For me...the notion of an intimate relationship between music and society functions not as a distant goal but as a starting point of great immediacy...the goal of which is to articulate something essential about why any particular music is the way it is in particular, that is, to achieve insight into the character of its identity.\"\n\nSusan McClary suggests that new musicology defines music as \"a medium that participates in social formation by influencing the ways we perceive our feelings, our bodies, our desires, our very subjectivities—even if it does so surreptitiously, without most of us knowing how\" (Brett, 1994). For Lawrence Kramer, music has meanings \"definite enough to support critical interpretations comparable in depth, exactness, and density of connection to interpretations of literary texts and cultural practices\" (Kramer, 1990).\n\nNew musicology combines cultural studies with the analysis and criticism of music, and it accords more weight to the sociology of musicians and institutions and to non-canonical genres of music, including jazz and popular music, than traditional musicology did. (A similar perspective became common for American ethnomusicologists during the 1950s.) This has caused many musicologists to question previously held views of authenticity and to make assessments based on critical methods \"concerned with finding some kind of synthesis between [musical] analysis and a consideration of social meaning\" (Beard and Gloag, 2005, 38).\n\nNew musicologists question the processes of canonization. Gary Tomlinson suggests that meaning be searched out in a \"series of interrelated historical narratives that surround the musical subject\" (Beard and Gloag, 2005, 123) – a \"web of culture\" (Tomlinson, 1984). For example, the work of Beethoven has been examined from new perspectives by studying his reception and influence in terms of masculine hegemony, the development of the modern concert, and the politics of his era, among other concerns. The traditional contrast between Beethoven and Schubert has been revised in the light of these studies, especially with reference to Schubert's possible homosexuality (McClary in Brett, 1994; Kramer 2003; Mathew, 2012).\n\nNew musicology is distinct from German music sociology in the work of Adorno, Max Weber and Ernst Bloch. Although some new musicologists claim some allegiance to Theodor Adorno, their work has little in common with the wider field of Adorno studies, especially in Germany. New musicologists frequently exhibit strong resistance to German intellectual traditions, especially in regard to nineteenth-century German music theorists including Adolf Bernhard Marx and Eduard Hanslick, and also the twentieth-century figures Heinrich Schenker and Carl Dahlhaus.\n\nA fundamental distinction has to do with attitudes towards modernism and popular culture. Influential, oft-cited essays such as McClary 1989 and McClary 2006 are highly dismissive of modernist music. German music sociologists tend to be more favorable towards modernism (though by no means uncritically) and severely critical of popular music as inextricably tied to the aesthetics of distraction as demanded by the culture industry. Metzger describes \"a fascistic element\" in the music of the Rolling Stones. New musicology, on the other hand, often overlaps with postmodern aesthetics; various new musicologists are highly sympathetic towards musical minimalism (see McClary 1990 and 2000 and Fink 2005).\n\nVincent Duckles writes, \"As musicology has grown more pluralistic, its practitioners have increasingly adopted methods and theories deemed by observers to mark the academy as irrelevant, out of touch with 'mainstream values', unwelcoming of Western canonic traditions or simply incomprehensible. Paradoxically, such approaches have distanced music scholarship from a broad public at the very moment they have encouraged scholars to scrutinize the popular musics that form the backbone of modern mass musical culture.\"\n\nCritics of new musicology include Pieter van den Toorn and to a lesser extent Charles Rosen. In response to an early essay of McClary (McClary 1987), Rosen says that \"she sets up, like so many of the 'new musicologists', a straw man to knock down, the dogma that music has no meaning, and no political or social significance. (I doubt that anyone, except perhaps the nineteenth-century critic Hanslick, has ever really believed that, although some musicians have been goaded into proclaiming it by the sillier interpretations of music with which we are often assailed.)\" (Rosen 2000). For David Beard and Kenneth Gloag, however, writing at two later moments (2005, 2016), the methods of new musicology have been fully incorporated into mainstream musicological practice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28935983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28935983", "title": "Otherworld", "text": "Otherworld\n\nThe concept of an otherworld in historical Indo-European religion is reconstructed in comparative mythology. \nIts name is a calque of \"orbis alius\" (Latin for \"other Earth/world\"), a term used by Lucan in his description of the Celtic Otherworld.\n\nComparable religious, mythological or metaphysical concepts, such as a realm of supernatural beings and a realm of the dead, are found in cultures throughout the world. Spirits are thought to travel between worlds, or layers of existence in such traditions, usually along an axis such as a giant tree, a tent pole, a river, a rope or mountains. \n\nMany Indo-European mythologies show evidence for a belief in some form of \"Otherworld\" and in many cases such as in Persian, Greek, Germanic, Celtic, Slavic and Indic mythologies a river had to be crossed to allow entrance to it and it is usually an old man that would transport the soul across the waters. In Greek and Indic mythology the waters of this river were thought to wash away sins or memories whereas Celtic and Germanic myths feature wisdom-imparting waters, suggesting that while the memories of the deceased are washed away a drinker of the waters would gain inspiration. The wayfarer will commonly encounter a dog either in the capacity of a guardian of the Otherworld or as the wanderer's guide. Examples of this are the Greek Cerberus, the three-headed hound of Hades, and the Indic सर्वरा \"sarvarā, one of the hounds of Yama, whose names may derive from an Indo-European \"*ḱerberos\" meaning \"spotted\". In Indo-European mythologies the Otherworld is depicted in many ways, including peaceful meadows, islands and buildings making it hard to determine how the original Proto-Indo-European Otherworld was viewed. However the ruler of the dead was possibly Yemo, the divine twin of Manu the first man.\n\nThe Chinvat Bridge (Avestan Cinvatô Peretûm, \"bridge of judgement\" or \"beam-shaped bridge\") or the Bridge of the Requiter in Zoroastrianism is the sifting bridge which separates the world of the living from the world of the dead. All souls must cross the bridge upon death. The bridge is guarded by two four-eyed dogs. A related myth is that of Yama, the Hindu ruler of Hell who watches the gates of Hell with his two four-eyed dogs.\n\nMany Celtic Immrams or \"voyage stories\" and other medieval texts provide evidence of a Celtic belief in an otherworld. One example which helps the reader understand the Celtic concept of the otherworld is The Voyage of Saint Brendan. Another Classic example of a Celtic \"otherworld\" is the Voyage of Bran. Because Celtic life largely was based upon nourishment from the sea and around the wet and foggy weather of Northern Europe the otherworld is often portrayed as an island to the west in Celtic oral tradition and even shown on some maps of Ireland during the medieval era. The otherworld in the idea of Celtic people became hard to distinguish and sometimes overlapped with the Christian idea of hell or heaven as this was often an analogy made to the Celtic idea of an otherworld or Scandinavian idea of a world tree. This is likely because of Roman and Scandinavian influences on Celtic cultures. An example of Scandinavian influence is apparent in the Voyage of Saint Brendan from the likeness of Lasconius the serpent to the Scandinavian Midgard Serpent. Red and white are the colors of animals in the Celtic Otherworld, and these colors still animate transcendent religious and political symbols today.\n\nAs was the case in the Celtic mythologies, in Germanic myths apples were particularly associated with the \"Otherworld\". In the Scandinavian tradition mythological localities are featured, as in Irish mythology; however, unlike Irish mythology, an attempt was made to map the localities of the Otherworld rather than list locales associated with it. In the Edda many locations are named including the dwellings of the gods such as Odin's hall of \"Valhalla\" or Ullr's dwelling of \"Ydalar\" (\"Yewdale\"). The \"Gylfaginning\" and the later Norwegian poem the \"Draumkvaede\" feature travels into the Otherworld.\n\nThe Early Slavs believed in a mythical place where birds flew for the winter and souls went after death; this realm was often identified with paradise and it is called Vyraj. It was also said that spring arrived on Earth from Vyraj. The gates of Vyraj stopped mortals from entering. They were guarded by Veles, who sometimes took the animal form of a raróg, grasping in its claws the keys to the otherworlds. Vyraj was sometimes also connected to the deity known as Rod - it was apparently located far beyond the sea, at the end of the Milky Way. It was usually imagined as a garden, located in the crown of the cosmic tree. Whereas the branches were said to be nested by the birds, who were usually identified as human souls. When the Slavic populations were gradually turning to Christianity (e.g. during the Christianization of Kievan Rus' and the Baptism of Poland), a new version of this belief became widespread in which there were two of these realms - one analogous to the original myth, a heavenly place where birds departed, and the other an underworld for snakes and zmeys, often associated with the Christian idea of hell. This second variant bears many similarities to Nav, another representation of the Slavonic underworld.\n\nIn Greco-Roman mythology the Gods were said to dwell on Mount Olympus whereas the dead usually went to the Underworld or Fortunate Isles after death.\n"}
{"id": "2711029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2711029", "title": "Physics education", "text": "Physics education\n\nPhysics education or physics education research (PER) refers both to the methods currently used to teach physics and to an area of pedagogical research that seeks to improve those methods. Historically, physics has been taught at the high school and college level primarily by the lecture method together with laboratory exercises aimed at verifying concepts taught in the lectures. These concepts are better understood when lectures are accompanied with demonstration, hand-on experiments, and questions that require students to ponder what will happen in an experiment and why. Students who participate in active learning for example with hands-on experiments learn through self-discovery. By trial and error they learn to change their preconceptions about phenomena in physics and discover the underlying concepts.\n\nAristotle wrote what is considered now as the first textbook of physics. Aristotle's ideas were taught unchanged until the Late Middle Ages, when scientists started making discoveries that didn't fit them. For example, Copernicus' discovery contradicted Aristotle's idea of an Earth-centric universe. Aristotle's ideas about motion weren't displaced until the end of the 17th century, when Newton published his ideas.\n\nToday's physics students keep thinking of physics concepts in Aristotelian terms, despite being taught only Newtonian concepts.\n\nPhysics is taught in high schools, college and graduate schools. In the US, it has traditionally not been introduced until junior or senior year (i.e. 12th grade), and then only as an elective or optional science course, which the majority of American high school students have not taken. Recently in the past years, many students have been taking it their sophomore year.\n\nPhysics First is a popular and relatively new movement in American high schools. In schools with this curriculum 9th grade students take a course with introductory physics education. This is meant to enrich students understanding of physics, and allow for more detail to be taught in subsequent high school biology, and chemistry classes; it also aims to increase the number of students who go on to take 12th grade physics or AP Physics (both of which are generally electives in American high schools.) But many scientists and educators argue that freshmen do not have an adequate background in mathematics to be able to fully comprehend a complete physics curriculum, and that therefore quality of a physics education is lost. While physics requires knowledge of vectors and some basic trigonometry, many students in the Physics First program take the course in conjunction with Geometry. They suggest that instead students first take biology and chemistry which are less mathematics-intensive so that by the time they are in their junior year, students will be advanced enough in mathematics with either an Algebra 2 or pre-calculus education to be able to fully grasp the concepts presented in physics. Some argue this even further, saying that at least calculus should be a prerequisite for physics.\n\nUndergraduate physics curricula in American universities includes courses for students choosing an academic major in physics, as well as for students majoring in other disciplines for whom physics courses provide essential prerequisite skills and knowledge. The term \"physics major\" can refer to the academic major in physics or to a student or graduate who has chosen to major in physics.\n\nTeaching strategies are the various techniques used by the teachers to facilitate the students with different learning styles.\nThe different teaching strategies help teachers to develop critical thinking among students and effectively engaging them in the classroom.\nThe selection of teaching strategies depends on the concept to be taught and also on the interest of the students.\n\nMethods/Approaches for teaching physics\n\nApproximately eighty-five institutions in the United States conduct research in science and physics education. One primary goal of physics education research is to develop pedagogical techniques and strategies that will help students learn physics more effectively and help instructors to implement these techniques. Owing to the abstract and counter-intuitive nature of many of the elementary concepts in physics, together with the fact that teaching through analogies can lead to didaskalogenic confusions, the lecture method often fails to help students overcome the many misconceptions about the physical world that they have developed before undertaking formal instruction in the subject. Research often focuses on learning more about the common misconceptions (see Scientific misconceptions) that students bring to the physics classroom, so that techniques can be devised to help students overcome these misconceptions.\n\nIn most introductory physics courses mechanics usually is the first area of physics that is discussed, and Newton's laws of motion, which describe how massive objects respond to forces, are central to the study of mechanics. As an example, many students hold the aristotelian misconception that a net force is required to keep a body moving; instead, motion is modelled in modern physics with the Newton's First Law of inertia, stating that a body will keep its state of rest or movement unless a net force acts on the body. Newton arrived at his three laws of motion from an extensive study of empirical data including many astronomical observations. In an active learning environment students might experiment with objects in an environment that has almost no friction, for example a block moving on an almost frictionless air table. There they would find that if they start the block moving at constant speed, it continues to move at constant speed without the need for a constant \"push\". It is hoped that exercises of this nature will help students to overcome their preconceived ideas about motion.\n\nA variety of interactive learning methods (sometimes also called active learning methods) and laboratory experiences have been developed with this aim. The recognition of the value of interactive engagement over more passive lecturing strategies has been promoted in large measure through studies initially using the Force Concept Inventory.\n\nDahncke et al. (2001) argued that there is a split in the science education community. On the one hand the major focus in on science whereby the group is usually organized close to the domain discipline, like physical societies. On the other hand, there are science educators whose aims are to balance the domain and educational issues.\n Philosophy of physics ---------Physics---------History of physics\n\nThe broad goal of the physics education research (PER) community is to understand the processes involved in the teaching and learning of physics through rigorous scientific investigation.\n\nAccording to the University of Washington PER group (one of the pioneers in the field), work within PER tends to fall within one or more of several broad descriptions, including:\n\n“An Introduction to Physics Education Research”, by Robert Beichner, identified 8 trends in PER as follows\n\n which builds off of deductive reasoning research started by Wason and Johnson-Laird.\n\nPhysics education research papers in the United States are primarily issued among four publishing venues (Hsu et al. 2007). Papers submitted to the \"American Journal of Physics: Physics Education Research Section (PERS)\" are mostly to consumers of physics education research (e.g., those for whom interest is in reading about and using it rather than those whose interest is in conducting the research; to the \"Journal of the Learning Sciences\" (JLS) for whom attention is addressed in real-life or non-laboratory environments often in the context of today's technological society, and about learning, not teaching. Manuscripts sent to \"\" (PRST:PER) are aimed at those for whom research is conducted on PER rather than to consumers. The audience for \"Physics Education Research Conference Proceedings\" (PERC) is designed for a mix of consumers and researchers. The latter provides a snapshot of the field and as such is open to preliminary results and research in progress, as well as papers that would simply be thought-provoking to the PER community. Other journals include but are not limited to \"Physics Education\" (UK), the \"European Journal of Physics\" (UK), and the \"Physics Teacher\". Leon Hsu et al. published an article about publishing and refereeing papers in physics education research in 2007.\n\nPER Reviews:\n\nMiscellaneous:\n"}
{"id": "205751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205751", "title": "Pākehā", "text": "Pākehā\n\nPākehā (or Pakeha; , ) is a Māori-language term for New Zealanders of European descent. The term has also recently come to refer inclusively either to fair-skinned persons, or to any non-Māori New Zealander. Papa'a has a similar meaning in Cook Islands Māori.\n\nIts etymology is unclear, but the term \"pākehā\" was in use by the late 18th century. In December 1814, the Māori children at Rangihoua in the Bay of Islands were \"no less eager to see the \"packaha\" than the grown folks\".\nIn Māori, plural nouns of the term include (the definite article) and (the indefinite article). When the word was first adopted, the usual plural in English was \"pakehas\". However, speakers of New Zealand English are increasingly removing the terminal \"s\" and treating the term as a collective noun.\n\nOpinions of the term vary amongst European New Zealanders. A minority reject it because it has historically been perceived as offensive in origin, or they object to being named in a language other than their own. Many are indifferent, but a minority embrace the term while the majority do not find it offensive.\nIn 2013, the New Zealand Attitudes and Values Study carried out by the University of Auckland found no evidence that the word was widely considered to be derogatory; however, only 12 per cent of New Zealanders of European descent chose to be identified by the term, with the remainder preferring \"New Zealander\" (53 per cent), \"New Zealand European\" (25 per cent) or \"Kiwi\" (17 per cent).\n\nMāori in the Bay of Islands and surrounding districts had no doubts about the meaning of the word in the 19th century. In 1831, thirteen from the Far North met at Kerikeri to compose a letter to King William IV, seeking protection from the French, \"the tribe of Marion\". Written in Māori, the letter used the word \"\" to mean \"British European\", and the words to mean \"strangers (non-British)\"—as shown in the translation that year of the letter from Māori to English by the missionary William Yate. To this day, the Māori term for the English language is \"\". Māori also used other terms such as (\"supernatural\", \"object of fear, strange being\"), (\"ghosts\"), and (\"metal\" or referring to persons \"foreign\") to refer to some of the earliest visitors.\n\nHowever, \"The Concise Māori Dictionary\" (Kāretu, 1990) defines the word \"pākehā\" as \"foreign, foreigner (usually applied to white person)\", while the \"English–Māori, Māori–English Dictionary\" (Biggs, 1990) defines \"Pākehā\" as \"white (person)\". Sometimes the term applies more widely to include all non-Māori. No Māori dictionary cites as derogatory. Some early European settlers who lived among Māori became known as \"Pākehā Māori\".\n\nThe etymology of is unknown, although the most likely sources are the words or , which refer to an oral tale of a \"mythical, human like being, with fair skin and hair who possessed canoes made of reeds which changed magically into sailing vessels\". When Europeans first arrived they rowed to shore in longboats, facing backwards while rowing the boats to shore. In traditional Māori canoes or \"\", paddlers face the direction of travel. This is supposed to have led to the belief that the sailors were supernatural beings.\n\nIn her book \"The Trial of the Cannibal Dog: The Remarkable Story of Captain Cook's Encounters in the South Seas\", the anthropologist Anne Salmond recorded that tribal traditions held that Toiroa, a from Mahia, had predicted the coming of the Europeans. He said \"\", meaning \"it is the pakerewhā\", red and white strangers.\n\nThere have been several dubious interpretations given to the word. One claims that it derives from , the Māori word for \"pig\", and , one of the Māori words for \"flea\", and therefore expresses derogatory implications. There is no etymological or linguistic support for this notion—like all Polynesian languages, Māori is generally very conservative in terms of vowels; it would be extremely unusual for \"pā-\" to derive from \"\". The word itself may come from the proto-polynesian root \"*puaka\", known in every Polynesian language (\" in Tongan, Uvean, Futunian, Rapa, Marquisian, Niuean, Rarotongan, Tokelauan, and Tuvaluan; it evolved to the later form in Samoan, Tahitian, some Rapa dialects, and Hawaiian); or it might be borrowed or mixed with the english \"porker\". It is hard to say, since Polynesian peoples populated their islands bringing pigs with them from East Asia, but no pigs were brought to Aotearoa by them. The more common Māori word for flea is . It is also sometimes claimed that means \"white pig\" or \"unwelcome white stranger\". However, no part of the word signifies \"pig\", \"white\", \"unwelcome\", or \"stranger\".\n\nNew Zealanders of European ancestry vary in their attitudes toward the word when applied to themselves. Some embrace it wholeheartedly as a sign of their connection to New Zealand, in contrast to the European identity of their forebears. Others object to the word, some strongly, claiming it to be derogatory or to carry implications of being an outsider, although this is often based on false information about the meaning of the term. Some believe being labelled \"\" compromises their status and their birthright links to New Zealand. In the 1986 census, over 36,000 respondents ignored the ethnicities offered, including \"\", writing-in their ethnicity as \"New Zealander\", or ignoring the question completely. A joint response code of \"NZ European or Pakeha\" was tried in the 1996 census, but was replaced by \"New Zealand European\" in later censuses because it drew what Statistics New Zealand described as a \"significant adverse reaction from some respondents\". Sociologist Paul Spoonley criticised the new version, however, saying that many would not identify as European.\n\nThe term is also sometimes used among New Zealanders of European ancestry in distinction to the Māori term (\"foreigner\"), as an act of emphasising their claims of belonging to the space of New Zealand in contrast to more recent arrivals. Those who prefer to emphasise nationality rather than ethnicity in relating to others living in New Zealand may refer to all New Zealand citizens only as \"New Zealanders\" or by the colloquial term \"Kiwis\".\n\nThe term is commonly used by a range of journalists and columnists from \"The New Zealand Herald\", the country's largest-circulation daily newspaper. Historian Judith Binney called herself a and said, \"I think it is the most simple and practical term. It is a name given to us by Māori. It has no pejorative associations like people think it does—it's a descriptive term. I think it's nice to have a name the people who live here gave you, because that's what I am.\"\nNew Zealand writer and historian Michael King wrote in 1985: \"To say something is Pakeha in character is not to diminish its New Zealand-ness, as some people imply. It is to emphasise it.\"\nNew Zealand politicians from across the political spectrum use the term, including Don Brash, John Key, Helen Clark, and Te Ururoa Flavell.\n\nThe point at which European settlers in New Zealand became —or indeed New Zealanders—is subjective.\n\nThe first European settlers arrived in New Zealand in the early nineteenth century, but most were missionaries, traders and adventurers who did not intend to stay permanently. From the 1840s, following the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi and the assumption of British sovereignty, large numbers of Europeans began to settle permanently in New Zealand. Most of these settlers were from Britain, with a disproportionate number coming from Scotland. There were also numerous settlers from Ireland and Northern and Central Europe.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century there were some moves towards cultural nationalism, and many began to see themselves as different from people living in Britain. However, there were still strong ties to the \"mother country\" (the United Kingdom, particularly England), which were maintained well into the twentieth century. Until some point in the mid-twentieth century most Pākehā considered themselves to be both British and New Zealanders. Many intellectuals migrated to Britain in order to pursue their careers as this was not possible in New Zealand. Notable expatriate from this period include writer Katherine Mansfield and physicist Ernest Rutherford.\n\nIn general, continue to develop identities distinct from and complementary to those of their (often) British origins and those of the other Anglophone nation-states such as Australia, the United States, Canada and Ireland, as well as Māori. As with most other settler societies, it can be said descriptively that contemporary culture is an amalgam of cultural practices, tensions, and accommodations: British/European with some Māori and Polynesian influences and more recently wider cultural inputs, particularly from Chinese and other Far Eastern cultures. Some have also argued that especially modern culture is defined by \"shock entry\" of Britain into the European Economic Community in 1975, which \"[left] the descendants of the colonisers, the Anglo-Celtic majorities, seemingly abandoned and marooned in Australia and New Zealand\".\n\nChristianity in New Zealand, despite its foreign origins, has also been shaped by Māori through movements such as the Rātana Church and Destiny Church, as well as their involvement in churches of European origin such as the Anglican Church. Where identity is identified, commonly NZ kitsch and symbols from marketing such as the Chesdale Cheese men are used as signifiers, and might more appropriately be called \"Kiwiana\".\n\nMichael King, a leading writer and historian on identity, discussed the concept of distinct practices and imaginations in his books: \"Being Pākehā\" (1985) and \"Being Pākehā Now\" (1999), and the edited collection, \"Pakeha: The Quest for Identity in New Zealand\" (1991), conceptualising as New Zealand's \"second indigenous\" culture. By contrast, Māori art historian Jonathan Mane-Wheoki described Pākehā as \"the people who define themselves by what they are not. Who want to forget their origins, their history, their cultural inheritance – who want Maori, likewise, to deny their origins so that we can all start off afresh.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38070992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38070992", "title": "Sau turaga", "text": "Sau turaga\n\nThe Sau turaga clan is the second highest clan of the Fijian social hierarchy system. The name itself means \"steward chief\". Holders of such a title have the paramount role of crowning a new chief, assisting the chief and above all else defending the sovereignty of the chief. Usually the turaga clan and the sau clan are but one family, the latter being the younger sibling in the original clan of nobility. But the title holds prestige in the society as one of the closest in rank to that of the chief. Only they can make a new chief and can temporarily hold the position until one is made. The clan is the second most important in the traditional Fijian hierarchical social structure.\n\nThey are also called king makers and thus they have the most important role of installing a chief. They have gifted powers called the 'Sau', given from their Ancient creator who lives in the sea. These powers can make them foretells the future, make a curse or break them. Before they passed, their powers will be returned to the one who gave it to them and He (The Creator), will give the power of the Sau to one of the Sau Turaga clans.\n\n"}
{"id": "33692006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33692006", "title": "Shared historical authority", "text": "Shared historical authority\n\nShared historical authority is a current trend in museums and historical institutions which aims to open the interpretation of history to the public.\n\nThe concept of shared historical authority is defined by the premise that traditional institutions of historical authority, such as museums and historical societies, are increasingly inviting non-professionals (the general public) to share their historical viewpoints and experiences with the public. It is argued that this trend toward sharing authority is changing the nature of public historical experience in significant ways. Shared authority removes the hierarchy commonly practiced within cultural institutions. Moving away from a top down approach, shared authority is geared towards collaboration that includes dialogue, and participatory engagement. \n\nTypical examples of shared historical authority include:\n\nIn each case the institution serves as a catalyst for non-traditional participants to contribute to a body of information presented to the public. The institution uses its resources - e.g. staff expertise, collections, public space - to help non-traditional participants share their contributions in publicly accessible and engaging ways. At its most basic, shared authority turns people who would otherwise be historical consumers (visitors and audiences) into participants and co-generators of historical content for public display. Museums who coordinate programs that share historical authority often wish to imbue a sense of democratization to the historical narrative, in contrast to the top-down historical narratives that sometimes emerge in museums. In addition, shared authority projects frequently try to involve communities who have traditionally been disenfranchised or underrepresented in historical narratives and institutions, providing a platform for alternative voices to engage in a public historical dialogue. The role of shared historical authority continues to be debated in the field of public history.\n\nThe need for museums and other historical institutions to \"share authority\" with their audiences and surrounding communities is rooted in the ideologies of New Social History and social constructivism. Both paradigms reject the concept of a \"master narrative\" for describing historical events, finding it an inadequate method for representing the multiple experiences and perspectives of individuals involved. Arising from the work of folklorists such as John Lomax and Alan Lomax, New Deal-era Works Progress Administration (WPA) programs such as the Federal Writers' Project and the work of Studs Terkel, the social history movement of the 1960s placed new academic emphasis on the experiences of people not represented in traditional or \"official\" historical narratives, and gave further impetus to projects focused on collecting and sharing those experiences.\n\nMichael Frisch, a professor at the University at Buffalo, The State University of New York, popularized the term \"shared authority\" in his 1990 book \"A Shared Authority: Essays on the Craft and Meaning of Oral and Public History.\" In recent years, Frisch has distinguished between \"sharing authority\" and \"\"a\" shared authority.\" The former suggests that historians possess authority and have a responsibility to share it, reinforcing a traditional, top-down view of history. \"A shared authority\", by contrast, recognizes that traditional historical authorities and the public share in the interpretive and meaning-making process \"\"by definition\".\"\n\nBeginning in the early 2000s, the proliferation of Web 2.0 technologies that allow users to easily create and share content on digital platforms offered historical institutions a variety of new tools to facilitate public participation.\n\nOther examples of shared historical authority include StoryCorps, City of Memory, and Philaplace, an internet based neighborhood history project produced by the Historical Society of Philadelphia that combines scholarly essays with stories from anyone who cares to submit one. Staff members then curate the submitted stories. Dennis Severs House is a historic townhouse in London (18 Folgate St.) that was restored by Dennis Severs. The house is filled with historic objects alongside modern touches, sound clips of carriages and crying babies, and plates of real food set out each day by the staff. Visitors are encouraged to roam the house on their own, sit down on the furniture, interact with other visitors and draw their own conclusions. The experience is meant to blur the lines between art and history.\n\nThe Lower East Side Tenement Museum is the first museum to focus on the lives of urban, immigrant tenement dwellers. It shares authority by inviting the families of former residents to contribute objects, photographs, documents, interviews and oral histories to the museum tours. Part of the museum's mission is to address today's immigrant issues. This provides another avenue for sharing authority through public programs that connect speakers with varied backgrounds to public audiences. The museum invites sharing on one of its tours, \"Sweatshop Workers\", with the words:\n\nOpen House: If These Walls Could Talk is an exhibition that was produced by the Minnesota Historical Society in 2006. The exhibition traced the stories of families in a single house in St. Paul, Minnesota between 1888 and 2006. The curators did not want to show patterns or people as part of aggregate groups. Instead, they chose to emphasize singularity and individuality. To accomplish this, the Minnesota Historical Society built a house for visitors to walk through. Instead of reading large panels of wall texts, visitors had to interact with objects to hear, read, or see information. Unlike projects in which the content is produced in conjunction with a group of community members, here authority was shared at the level of narrative creation. Curators controlled the objects in the house, recordings of former residents, and the setup of the space. Without an overarching structure, visitors could wander through at random, co-creating their own narratives. There was no clear beginning and end beyond entering and exiting the house.\n\nThe Black Bottom Performance Project is a partnership between the University of Pennsylvania and residents of Black Bottom, an historically black neighborhood destroyed by urban renewal policies and the University of Pennsylvania's expansion in the 1960s. Billy Yalowitz, a theater professor working at the university, invited Penn students as well as student and teacher partners from University City High School—a school built in the former Black Bottom neighborhood—and former residents of the neighborhood to work together on the telling of the neighborhood's history, ultimately creating \"Black Bottom Sketches\" in 1998.\n\nThe Wing Luke Museum is an example of a museum in which shared authority is a core component of its programming policies.\n\nDespite the interest and affirmation that sharing authority is currently receiving in museum and public humanities circles, there are scholars and practitioners who criticise the practice. Generally, these criticisms are aimed at one of two levels. First, some scholars suggest that the phrase itself is wrong. \"Sharing authority\" implies that the process is something museums/archives do rather than something that just \"is.\" In his essay for \"Letting Go?\", Michael Frisch suggests that a more appropriate formulation of the concept is \"a shared authority.\"\n\nScholars and artists also worry that sharing authority devalues the hard-won expertise of professionals. The artist Fred Wilson, whose 1992-1993 exhibit \"Mining the Museum\" at the Maryland Historical Society is considered a landmark moment in museums' assessments of their role as historical arbiters, has expressed, \"I don't think people should share authority to the degree that you devalue your own scholarship, your own knowledge. That's not sharing anything. You're not giving what you have. That is highly problematic. You have to be realistic about your years of experience, what you can give, and what others can give.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9267849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9267849", "title": "Simtest", "text": "Simtest\n\nSIMTEST is a computerized adaptive test (CAT) of foreign language ability designed and developed at the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona in Catalonia, Spain. It classifies examinees according to 6 levels of proficiency as defined in the Council of Europe document: “A Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR): learning, teaching, assessment” (Cambridge University Press, 2001).\n\nSIMTEST has been developed for both placement and certification purposes. Version 1 was available in local for Windows and current version is available on-line. It consists of 4 component tests that may be used - according to the testing context or institutional requirements - to test knowledge of vocabulary, grammar and language functions in addition to reading and listening comprehension. The only non-CAT component consists of a series of 4 C-Tests (a cloze procedure developed in the 1980s at Gerhard-Mercator-Universität Duisburg in Germany - based on theories of language redundancy relating to Gestalt theory). An initial estimation of the level of language proficiency detected by the C-Tests may be used as an entry point to the CAT components. Multiple choice items are presented on a CAT administration based on an algorithm described by Henning (1987).\n"}
{"id": "13727892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13727892", "title": "Skull art", "text": "Skull art\n\nIndigenous Mexican art celebrates the skeleton and uses it as a regular motif. The use of skulls and skeletons in art originated before the Conquest: The Aztecs excelled in stone sculptures and created striking carvings of their Gods. Coatlicue, the Goddess of earth and death, was portrayed with a necklace of human hearts, hands and a skull pendant. She was imbued with the drama and grandeur necessary to dazzle the subject people and to convey the image of an implacable state. The worship of death involved worship of life, while the skull – symbol of death – was a promise to resurrection. The Aztecs carved skulls in monoliths of lava, and made masks of obsidian and jade. Furthermore, the skull motif was used in decoration. They were molded on pots, traced on scrolls, woven into garments, and formalized into hieroglyphs.\n\nWhen the Spanish invaded and conquered Tenochtitlan in the sixteenth century, they imposed the Catholic religion and Spanish folk-practices of the era. This included the pagan tradition of celebrating the dead with food-offerings and feasts. However, the Spanish priests were eager to discontinue these ancient traditions that found fertile ground in Mexico. The Spanish suppressed the Mexican skull art tradition because it was too \"Indito\" or pagan for their refined European tastes. Not until Mexico won its independence from Spain in 1821, did skull art begin to re-emerge as a symbol of \"Mexicanidad\".\n\nWhen Porfirio Díaz became president, he was burdened with a bankrupt economy. To help the economic situation in Mexico, Díaz encouraged foreign investments. Investors were pleased with Mexico's cheap labor force. The Mexican–Indian laborer worked under cruel conditions. José Guadalupe Posada, Mexican engraver, with his drawing criticized the conditions in Mexico.\nJose Guadalupe Posada is probably the most important Mexican artist of our times. During his lifetime, Posada was a witness to the crucial social and political changes which shaped Mexico into a modern nation. Changes such as the downfall of a dictator, a wide – spread social revolution, and the struggle for a power combined with the birth of a democratic process, all these experiences deeply influenced him. Through his work, he documented these occurrences and became a pictorial historian.\n\nPosada's drawings brought an awakening to the common man. He made those who could not read to understand what was happening in their country. Although the use of skulls and skeletons in art had been suppressed by foreign influences, it was still recognized among the poor in their celebrations of the Day of the Dead.\nUsing skull art was Posada's way to make a connection with the popular audience. Reproduced on box lids is his most famous engraving – la Calavera Catrina – which shows a fashionable lady in the guise of a skeleton. Diego Rivera called José Guadalupe Posada the greatest Mexican people's artist. From this influence, Rivera painted common people living and working in their environment. His work also carried a social message.\nPosada and Rivera deeply influenced the Jaliscano Jorge González Camarena, who disregarded the traditional methods and embraced the popular art of Posada and Rivera. Recurring battle scenes appear in González Camarena's work where Revolutionary soldiers become part of the ancient Mexican history as their lifeless bodies change into skeletons.\n\nFrida Kahlo was also the product of a bold and brilliant generation that looked back with devotion to its Mexican roots and valued the reality it found there, uncontaminated by foreign influence. She admitted having a great deal of admiration for her husband's work, as well as that of Jose Guadalupe Posada and she found great beauty in the highly developed pre-Conquest indigenous art.\n\nFrida was claimed early on by André Breton and the Surrealists as one of their own, and for a time she did not mind to be caught up and identified with the chic vanguard movement. But, later she declared herself not one of them because she said \"I painted dreams, I painted my own reality.\" In the 1940s she painted \"The Dream,\" where a conscious skeleton floats above the sleeping Frida. The Mexican brujos say \"to live is to sleep and to die is to awaken.\" For Frida, perhaps, death like dreams exists in parallel.\nWhile Frida's work focused on \"Mexicanidad\", Chucho Reyes integrated European fine art styles with the essence of the popular Mexican skull art. Perhaps his art was politically unpopular for those who chose to disregard foreign influences. However, Reye's unconventional combination was most likely influenced by his eccentric father who, although devoutly Catholic, practiced brujeria. He slept in a bed where roosters were tied to each bedpost and a large eye was painted above his bed on the ceiling. This mixture of European religious beliefs with Mexican witchcraft was what most likely inspired Reyes to combine different artistic styles. Art like this will take quite a while to master\n\nAlthough modernly the ancient Aztec religious traditions that have remained are called brujeria by those who practice European religions, in Oaxaca – superstitions and saints are spoken in the same breath.\n\nRufino Tamayo founded the Oaxacan school of painting on the principle that although painting must take place on the plastic level, it does not exclude the possibility that the work contain a profound consequence not altogether expressed. Tamayo seemed to strip away man's external self, found for instance in religion, in order to examine man's fundamental fears. His fear of nature, of the cosmos, and above everything else, man's fear of himself. The subtle and rich art of pre-Columbian times greatly inspired Tamayo. From this influence he painted man as a transparent flesh existing on a living skeleton.\n\nOn the other hand, Francisco Toledo painted his subjects as if they were x-rays. Salacious curiosity with the inner being becomes almost pornographic as his erotic and irreverent resurgence of Skull Art comes forward.\n\nWhile Rufino Tamayo founded the Oaxacan School, it was Rodolfo Nieto who defined it. Rodolfo added a dramatic tone to skull art. Using light colors fixed against dark hues, he showed the continual battle of life and death. With gaiety, humor, whimsies, and boyhood stories of Tarzan the Ape Man fighting the perils of the jungle, Rodolfo laughed at death while living in the shadows of his own deepening depression. Flashes of light confused by color, juxtaposed against the stark black canvasses, he did not attempt to define human existence, but just to live it, knowing that the skull was always within him. His painter wife Nancy Nieto removed the fleshy mask of life in order to examine the basis of life, the skull and skeleton... \n\nOften Chicano or Mexican American artists turn to their history, recently and notably Nancy Nieto brings a bold resurgence to the ancient tradition of Mexican skull art. Woven into a veil of rich colors and unconventional forms, adopted from the Oaxacan School, her work removes the veil of mystery the mystery of life only to reveal the mystery of death. She shows depths of mystery yet has a harmonious eurhythmic note of the epic origins of the chromatic Oaxaca. She struggles to re-address Francisco Toledo's erotic themes, and to step away from Rodolfo Nieto's dramatic tomes. Her work renews the Aztec view of death as a transitional cycle between the individual life and the ubiquitous \"to be\".\n\nRodolfo Nieto: Bestiario. Galeria Lopez Quiroga, Mexico, D.F., 1993, p. 20. \nHechizos de Oaxaca. Fono Impresa, Mexico, D.F., 1987, p. 156 -89.\n"}
{"id": "222291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222291", "title": "Social history", "text": "Social history\n\nSocial history, often called the new social history, is a field of history that looks at the lived experience of the past. In its \"golden age\" it was a major growth field in the 1960s and 1970s among scholars, and still is well represented in history departments in Britain, Canada, France, Germany, and the United States. In the two decades from 1975 to 1995, the proportion of professors of history in American universities identifying with social history rose from 31% to 41%, while the proportion of political historians fell from 40% to 30%. In the history departments of British and Irish universities in 2014, of the 3410 faculty members reporting, 878 (26%) identified themselves with social history while political history came next with 841 (25%).\n\nThe older social history (before 1960) included numerous topics that were not part of the mainstream historiography of political, military, diplomatic and constitutional history. It was a hodgepodge without a central theme, and it often included political movements, like Populism, that were \"social\" in the sense of being outside the elite system. People's history was sometimes so Marxist that non-Marxists were alienated by it. Social history was contrasted with political history, intellectual history and the history of great men. English historian G. M. Trevelyan saw it as the bridging point between economic and political history, reflecting that, \"Without social history, economic history is barren and political history unintelligible.\" While the field has often been viewed negatively as history with the politics left out, it has also been defended as \"history with the people put back in.\"\n\nThe \"new social history\" exploded on the scene in the 1960s, quickly becoming one of the dominant styles of historiography in the U.S., Britain and Canada. The French version, promulgated by the Annales School, was very well organized and dominated French historiography, and influenced much of Europe and Latin America. Jürgen Kocka finds two meanings to \"social history.\" At the simplest level, it was the subdivision of historiography that focused on social structures and processes. In this regard it stood in contrast to political or economic history. The second meaning was broader, and the Germans called it \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte.\" It is the history of an entire society from a social-historical viewpoint.\n\nIn Germany the \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte\" movement introduced a vast range of topics, as Kocka, a leader of the Bielefeld School recalls:\n\nAmericanist Paul E. Johnson recalls the heady early promise of the movement in the late 1960s:\n\nThe Social Science History Association was formed in 1976 to bring together scholars from numerous disciplines interested in social history. It is still active and publishes \"Social Science History\" quarterly. The field is also the specialty of the \"Journal of Social History\", edited since 1967 by Peter Stearns It covers such topics as gender relations; race in American history; the history of personal relationships; consumerism; sexuality; the social history of politics; crime and punishment, and history of the senses. Most of the major historical journals have coverage as well.\n\nHowever, after 1990 social history was increasingly challenged by cultural history, which emphasizes language and the importance of beliefs and assumptions and their causal role in group behavior.\n\nThe study of the lives of ordinary people was revolutionized in the 1960s by the introduction of sophisticated quantitative and demographic methods, often using individual data from the census and from local registers of births, marriages, deaths and taxes, as well as theoretical models from sociology such as social mobility. H-DEMOG is a daily email discussion group that covers the field broadly.\n\nHistorical demography is the study of population history and demographic processes, usually using census or similar statistical data. It became an important specialty inside social history, with strong connections with the larger field of demography, as in the study of the Demographic Transition.\n\nBlack history or African-American history studies African Americans and Africans in American history. The Association for the Study of African American Life and History was founded by Carter G. Woodson in 1915 and has 2500 members and publishes the \"Journal of African American History,\" formerly the \"Journal of Negro History.\" Since 1926 it has sponsored Black History Month every February.\n\nEthnic history is especially important in the U.S. and Canada, where major encyclopedias helped define the field. It covers the history of ethnic groups (usually not including blacks or Native Americans). \nTypical approaches include critical ethnic studies; comparative ethnic studies; critical race studies; Asian-American, and Latino/a or Chicano/a studies. In recent years Chicano/Chicana studies has become important as the Hispanic population has become the largest minority in the U.S.\n\nLabor history, deals with labor unions and the social history of workers. See for example Labor history of the United States The Study Group on International Labor and Working-Class History was established: 1971 and has a membership of 1000. It publishes \"International Labor and Working-Class History\". H-LABOR is a daily email-based discussion group formed in 1993 that reaches over a thousand scholars and advanced students. the Labor and Working-Class History Association formed in 1988 and publishes \".\"\n\nKirk (2010) surveys labour historiography in Britain since the formation of the Society for the Study of Labour History in 1960. He reports that labour history has been mostly pragmatic, eclectic and empirical; it has played an important role in historiographical debates, such as those revolving around history from below, institutionalism versus the social history of labour, class, populism, gender, language, postmodernism and the turn to politics. Kirk rejects suggestions that the field is declining, and stresses its innovation, modification and renewal. Kirk also detects a move into conservative insularity and academicism. He recommends a more extensive and critical engagement with the kinds of comparative, transnational and global concerns increasingly popular among labour historians elsewhere, and calls for a revival of public and political interest in the topics. Meanwhile, Navickas, (2011) examines recent scholarship including the histories of collective action, environment and human ecology, and gender issues, with a focus on work by James Epstein, Malcolm Chase, and Peter Jones.\n\nWomen's history exploded into prominence in the 1970s, and is now well represented in every geographical topic; increasingly it includes gender history. Social history uses the approach of women's history to understand the experiences of ordinary women, as opposed to \"Great Women,\" in the past. Feminist women's historians have critiqued early studies of social history for being too focused on the male experience.\n\nGender history focuses on the categories, discourses and experiences of femininity and masculinity as they develop over time. Gender history gained prominence after it was conceptualized in 1986 by Joan W. Scott in her article \"Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis.\" Many social historians use Scott's concept of \"perceived differences\" to study how gender relations in the past have unfolded and continue to unfold. In keeping with the cultural turn, many social historians are also gender historians who study how discourses interact with everyday experiences.\n\nThe History of the family emerged as a separate field in the 1970s, with close ties to anthropology and sociology. The trend was especially pronounced in the U.S. and Canada. It emphasizes demographic patterns and public policy, but is quite separate from genealogy, though often drawing on the same primary sources, such as censuses and family records. \n\nThe influential pioneering study \"Women, Work, and Family\" (1978) was done by Louise A. Tilly and Joan W. Scott. It broke new ground with their broad interpretive framework and emphasis on the variable factors shaping women's place in the family and economy in France and England. The study considered the interaction of production, or traditional labor, and reproduction, the work of caring for children and families, in its analysis of women's wage labor and thus helped to bring together labor and family history. Much work has been done on the dichotomy in women's lives between the private sphere and the public. For a recent worldwide overview covering 7000 years see Maynes and Waltner's 2012 book and ebook, \"The Family: A World History\" (2012). For comprehensive coverage of the American case, see Marilyn Coleman and Lawrence Ganong, eds. \"The Social History of the American Family: An Encyclopedia\" (4 vol, 2014).\n\nThe history of childhood is a growing subfield.\n\nFor much of the 20th century, the dominant American historiography, as exemplified by Ellwood Patterson Cubberley (1868-1941) at Stanford, emphasized the rise of American education as a powerful force for literacy, democracy, and equal opportunity, and a firm basis for higher education and advanced research institutions. It was a story of enlightenment and modernization triumphing over ignorance, cost-cutting, and narrow traditionalism whereby parents tried to block their children's intellectual access to the wider world. Teachers dedicated to the public interest, reformers with a wide vision, and public support from the civic-minded community were the heroes. The textbooks help inspire students to become public schools teachers and thereby fulfill their own civic mission.\n\nThe crisis came in the 1960s, when a new generation of New Left scholars and students rejected the traditional celebratory accounts, and identified the educational system as the villain for many of America's weaknesses, failures, and crimes. Michael Katz (1939-2014) states they:\n\nThe old guard fought back and bitter historiographical contests, with the younger students and scholars largely promoting the proposition that schools were not the solution to America's ills, they were in part the cause of Americans problems. The fierce battles of the 1960s died out by the 1990s, but enrollment in education history courses and never recovered.\n\nBy the 1980s, compromise had been worked out, with all sides focusing on the heavily bureaucratic nature of the American public schooling.\n\nIn recent years most histories of education deal with institutions or focus on the ideas histories of major reformers, but a new social history has recently emerged, focused on who were the students in terms of social background and social mobility. In the U.S. attention has often focused on minority and ethnic students. In Britain, Raftery et al. (2007) looks at the historiography on social change and education in Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, with particular reference to 19th-century schooling. They developed distinctive systems of schooling in the 19th century that reflected not only their relationship to England but also significant contemporaneous economic and social change. This article seeks to create a basis for comparative work by identifying research that has treated this period, offering brief analytical commentaries on some key works, discussing developments in educational historiography, and pointing to lacunae in research.\n\nHistorians have recently looked at the relationship between schooling and urban growth by studying educational institutions as agents in class formation, relating urban schooling to changes in the shape of cities, linking urbanization with social reform movements, and examining the material conditions affecting child life and the relationship between schools and other agencies that socialize the young.\n\nThe most economics-minded historians have sought to relate education to changes in the quality of labor, productivity and economic growth, and rates of return on investment in education. A major recent exemplar is Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz, \"The Race between Education and Technology\" (2009), on the social and economic history of 20th-century American schooling.\n\nThe \"new urban history\" emerged in the 1950s in Britain and in the 1960s in the U.S. It looked at the \"city as process\" and, often using quantitative methods, to learn more about the inarticulate masses in the cities, as opposed to the mayors and elites. A major early study was Stephan Thernstrom's \"Poverty and Progress: Social Mobility in a Nineteenth Century City\" (1964), which used census records to study Newburyport, Massachusetts, 1850-1880. A seminal, landmark book, it sparked interest in the 1960s and 1970s in quantitative methods, census sources, \"bottom-up\" history, and the measurement of upward social mobility by different ethnic groups. Other exemplars of the new urban history included Kathleen Conzen, \"Immigrant Milwaukee, 1836-1860\" (1976); Alan Dawley, \"Class and Community: The Industrial Revolution in Lynn\" (1975; 2nd ed. 2000); Michael B. Katz, \"The People of Hamilton, Canada West\" (1976); Eric H. Monkkonen, \"The Dangerous Class: Crime and Poverty in Columbus Ohio 1860-1865\" (1975); and Michael P. Weber, \"Social Change in an Industrial Town: Patterns of Progress in Warren, Pennsylvania, From Civil War to World War I.\" (1976).\n\nRepresentative comparative studies include Leonardo Benevolo, \"The European City\" (1993); Christopher R. Friedrichs, \"The Early Modern City, 1450-1750\" (1995), and James L. McClain, John M. Merriman, and Ugawa Kaoru. eds. \"Edo and Paris\" (1994) (Edo was the old name for Tokyo).\n\nThere were no overarching social history theories that emerged developed to explain urban development. Inspiration from urban geography and sociology, as well as a concern with workers (as opposed to labor union leaders), families, ethnic groups, racial segregation, and women's roles have proven useful. Historians now view the contending groups within the city as \"agents\" who shape the direction of urbanization. The subfield has flourished in Australia—where most people live in cities.\n\nAgricultural History handles the economic and technological dimensions, while Rural history handles the social dimension. Burchardt (2007) evaluates the state of modern English rural history and identifies an \"orthodox\" school, focused on the economic history of agriculture. This historiography has made impressive progress in quantifying and explaining the output and productivity achievements of English farming since the \"agricultural revolution.\" The celebratory style of the orthodox school was challenged by a dissident tradition emphasizing the social costs of agricultural progress, notably enclosure, which forced poor tenant farmers off the land. Recently, a new school, associated with the journal \"Rural History,\" has broken away from this narrative of agricultural change, elaborating a wider social history. The work of Alun Howkins has been pivotal in the recent historiography, in relation to these three traditions. Howkins, like his precursors, is constrained by an increasingly anachronistic equation of the countryside with agriculture. Geographers and sociologists have developed a concept of a \"post-productivist\" countryside, dominated by consumption and representation that may have something to offer historians, in conjunction with the well-established historiography of the \"rural idyll.\" Most rural history has focused on the American South—overwhelmingly rural until the 1950s—but there is a \"new rural history\" of the North as well. Instead of becoming agrarian capitalists, farmers held onto preindustrial capitalist values emphasizing family and community. Rural areas maintained population stability; kinship ties determined rural immigrant settlement and community structures; and the defeminization of farm work encouraged the rural version of the \"women's sphere.\" These findings strongly contrast with those in the old frontier history as well as those found in the new urban history.\n\nThe historiography of religion focuses mostly on theology and church organization and development. Recently the study of the social history or religious behavior and belief has become important.\n\nSocial history has dominated French historiography since the 1920s, thanks to the central role of the Annales School. Its journal \"Annales\" focuses attention on the synthesizing of historical patterns identified from social, economic, and cultural history, statistics, medical reports, family studies, and even psychoanalysis.\n\nSocial history developed within West German historiography during the 1950s-60s as the successor to the national history discredited by National Socialism. The German brand of \"history of society\" - \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte\" - has been known from its beginning in the 1960s for its application of sociological and political modernization theories to German history. Modernization theory was presented by Hans-Ulrich Wehler (1931-2014) and his Bielefeld School as the way to transform \"traditional\" German history, that is, national political history, centered on a few \"great men,\" into an integrated and comparative history of German society encompassing societal structures outside politics. Wehler drew upon the modernization theory of Max Weber, with concepts also from Karl Marx, Otto Hintze, Gustav Schmoller, Werner Sombart and Thorstein Veblen.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s German historians of society, led by Wehler and Jürgen Kocka at the \"Bielefeld school\" gained dominance in Germany by applying both modernization theories and social science methods. From the 1980s, however, they were increasingly criticized by proponents of the \"cultural turn\" for not incorporating culture in the history of society, for reducing politics to society, and for reducing individuals to structures. Historians of society inverted the traditional positions they criticized (on the model of Marx's inversion of Hegel). As a result, the problems pertaining to the positions criticized were not resolved but only turned on their heads. The traditional focus on individuals was inverted into a modern focus on structures, the traditional focus on culture was inverted into a modern focus on structures, and traditional emphatic understanding was inverted into modern causal explanation.\n\nBefore World War II, political history was in decline and an effort was made to introduce social history in the style of the French Annales School. After the war only Marxist interpretations were allowed. With the end of Communism in Hungary in 1989. Marxist historiography collapsed and social history came into its own, especially the study of the demographic patterns of the early modern period. Research priorities have shifted toward urban history and the conditions of everyday life.\n\nWhen Communism ended in 1991, large parts of the Soviet archives were opened. The historians' data base leapt from a limited range of sources to a vast array of records created by modern bureaucracies. Social history flourished. The old Marxist historiography collapsed overnight.\n\nSocial history had a \"golden age\" in Canada in the 1970s, and continues to flourish among scholars. Its strengths include demography, women, labour, and urban studies.\n\nWhile the study of elites and political institutions has produced a vast body of scholarship, the impact after 1960 of social historians has shifted emphasis onto the politics of ordinary people—especially voters and collective movements. Political historians responded with the \"new political history,\" which has shifted attention to political cultures. Some scholars have recently applied a cultural approach to political history. Some political historians complain that social historians are likely to put too much stress on the dimensions of class, gender and race, reflecting a leftist political agenda that assumes outsiders in politics are more interesting than the actual decision makers.\n\nSocial history, with its leftist political origins, initially sought to link state power to everyday experience in the 1960s. Yet by the 1970s, social historians increasingly excluded analyses of state power from its focus. Social historians have recently engaged with political history through studies of the relationships between state formation, power and everyday life with the theoretical tools of cultural hegemony and governmentality.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7866648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7866648", "title": "Socio-analysis", "text": "Socio-analysis\n\nSocio-analysis is the activity of exploration, consultancy, and action research which combines and synthesises methodologies and theories derived from psychoanalysis, group relations, social systems thinking, organisational behaviour, and social dreaming.\n\nSocio-analysis offers a conception of individuals, groups, organisations, and global systems that takes into account conscious and unconscious aspects and potentialities. From this conception are born methods of exploration which can increase capacities through making conscious what was unconscious for individuals, groups, and organisations, and through releasing energy and ideas that help create individual and organizational direction, and meaning.\n\nSocio-analysis has at its heart a query as to what is the psychological truth for an individual, group, organisation, or other social system, and how may this best be brought to light as a means for creative transformation and growth?\n\nAnxiety, its exploration, and understanding are of central concern to psychoanalysis, which was founded to explore the mental problems of medical patients. While socio-analytic exploration frequently uncovers systemic pain, (of which anxiety is a part), the “pain” is a guide to transformation of the system as a whole with all its potentialities for growth. Joshua Bain has suggested that the emphasis on anxiety is limiting, and that a more appropriate paradigm for socio-analysis is wonder. Wonder was regarded by Plato as the beginning of philosophy, and its link to exploration, creativity, and the growth of capacities of human beings, would seem to make it the appropriate starting point for socio-analysis as well.\n\n“Wonder is the special affection of a philosopher; for philosophy has no other starting point than this; and it is a happy genealogy which makes Iris the daughter of Thaumas”. Theaetetus, 155D\n\nThe saying “When wonder ceases, knowledge begins”, which is attributed to\nSir Francis Bacon, is especially apt for socio-analysis with its emphasis on always explore, rather than sit tight on what is supposedly known.\n\nSocio-analysis has its roots in the first Northfield Experiment carried out by Wilfred Bion and John Rickman, and reported in the Lancet in 1943, and later by Bion in the Bulletin of the Menninger Clinic in 1946. Bion is generally regarded as the father of socio-analysis (although the word was not used in those days).\n\nWilfred Bion was born in India in 1897 and educated at Bishop Stortford College in England. During the First World War he commanded a tank on the Western Front and was decorated for bravery: Distinguished Service Order, and the Legion of Honour. After studying History at Oxford University, and a stint teaching History at his old school, he began Medical training at University College Hospital in 1924 and qualified in 1930. He worked at the Tavistock Clinic in London before the Second World War, and started a personal psychoanalysis with John Rickman. After the Second World War he contributed to the formation of the Tavistock Institute. He had a second psycho-analysis with Melanie Klein, and trained and qualified as a psychoanalyst. Bion was, and is, regarded by many people as a genius who made fundamental contributions to psychoanalysis, and to the understanding of groups. His stance of always pointing to the unknown, whether with a patient or with a group or in himself, was the realization of his genius.\n\nNorthfield Hospital was a military hospital, situated in Birmingham, in the English Midlands, with the task of treating soldiers who had developed psychiatric problems, in order to get them back into the war. Together with John Rickman, Wilfred Bion introduced group meetings as the principal method of change for these patients. This Experiment, together with the Second Northfield Experiment associated with the innovations of S. H. Foulkes, Tom Main and Harold Bridger, contributed the following elements to the emerging discipline of socio-analysis:\n\nThe Northfield Experiments heralded a socio-analytic consultant role: one of exploration of individual, group, and organisational phenomena which are linked dynamically. The socio-analyst, as exemplified by the role Bion took at Northfield, and after the War in his group explorations at the Tavistock Clinic, works from a stance of “not knowing” with the courage, and fortitude, to pursue psychological truth.\n\nThe socio-analyst, like the psychoanalyst, uses concepts such as the unconscious, defences, splitting, projection, projective identification, introjection, and transference, but the field for exploration, while including the individual, is wider than the psychoanalytic dyad – e.g. a group, an organisation, a society, global systems.\n\nThus, for example, the socio-analyst uses concepts of group and organisational transference, and pays particular attention to the way he/she is made to feel through client engagements, as a possible indication of unconscious dynamics within the client system.\n\nBion’s exploration of group dynamics at the Tavistock Clinic in London after the war culminated in a seminal publication “Experiences in Groups”, which describes and analyses three basic assumptions that can be observed in group behaviour at different times: basic assumption dependency, basic assumption fight / flight, and basic assumption pairing. Basic assumptions operate unconsciously within groups at the same time a group may be engaged in a conscious work task – that Bion called a W group.\n\nThese insights of Bion together with theories of Kurt Lewin led to the first Group Relations Conference in 1957 that was sponsored by the Tavistock Institute of Human Relations and Leicester University, and directed by Eric Trist.\nGroup Relations Conferences typically explore the effects of group and organisational dynamics on how individuals take up authority and leadership in this temporary institution, and in their work. The “Leicester” Conference as it came to be known under the leadership of A.K.Rice and colleagues such as Pierre Turquet, Eric Miller, Robert Gosling, and Bruce Reed stimulated similar explorations and enterprises in numerous countries: United States, Canada, Mexico, Peru, France, Éire, Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Bulgaria, Finland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, South Africa, Israel, India, and Australia.\n\nOther influences on the nascent discipline of socio-analysis that emerged from the work of social scientists at the Tavistock Institute in the 1950s were action research; the discovery of socio-technical systems by Eric Trist and Ken Bamforth, its development by Trist and Emery, Rice and Miller; and Elliott Jaques and Isabel Menzies's concept of social systems being structured as a defence against anxiety.\n\nA recent methodology for the exploration of social phenomena has been the discovery of social dreaming by Gordon Lawrence at the Tavistock Institute in 1982.\nSocial Dreaming is the activity of sharing dreams (night dreams), associations to the dreams, and connections between dreams, with others in a Matrix setting. The focus of social dreaming (unlike in psychoanalysis or dreaming groups) is not on the meaning of the dream for the individual dreamer, but regarding the dreams and associations as a way of exploring and making social meaning. Conferences to explore social dreaming have been held in Israel, the United States, Australia, India, and most European countries.\n\nUp until 1996 the work that has been described in this article went under different labels. There was no one word that described the activities and the role. Alastair Bain suggested that the discipline should be called “Socio-Analysis” in 1996.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Socio-Analysis pioneered a three-year professional training program in socio-analysis in 1999, and began publishing a Journal “Socio-Analysis” in 1999. While the Australian Institute of Socio-Analysis no longer exists the work of socio-analysis continues to be developed by the Centre for Socio-Analysis in Melbourne . Other organisations which do socio-analytic or closely related work include the William Alanson White Institute in New York, the A.K. Rice Institute in the United States, the Tavistock Institute and Tavistock Clinic in London, the Grubb Institute and OPUS , both in London, the Centre for Applied Research in Philadelphia, the International Society for the Psychoanalytic Study of Organisations , the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, the University of Wuppertal , and practitioners from many countries who work in the tradition of Wilfred Bion. The Journal “Socio-Analysis” is now published by Group Relations Australia.\n\nCurrent developments in socio-analysis include Bain’s discovery of Organisational Dreaming,\nwhich is based on the observation that dreams are “container sensitive”, and that the dreams shared by people within an organisation during a project will reflect organisational realities that are the “unexpressed known” within the organisation.\n\nThe work of the Centre for Socio-Analysis has also led to a formulation of “authority” that is based in wonder and the sangha (Buddhist notion of “people on the path”) in contrast to usual understandings that are based on the individual, anxiety, and hierarchy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31074444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31074444", "title": "Solunar theory", "text": "Solunar theory\n\nThe solunar theory is a hypothesis that animals and fish move according to the location of the moon in comparison to their bodies. The theory was laid out in 1926 by John Alden Knight, but was said to be used by hunters and fishermen long before the time it was published.\n\nIn May 1926, John Aldenn Knight put together some fishing folklore and other fishing factors such as the sun and the moon, hence the name Solunar (Sol for sun and Lunar for moon) to form a theory on the patterns of animal movement. Knight compiled a list of factors which control or influence the day-to-day behavior of many freshwater and saltwater fish. Each one of the 33 different factors were considered. All but 3 were rejected. The three factors retained were the sun, the moon and the tide. For salt water fishing, tides have long been known as a factor that controls fishes' behavior. As Knight's research progressed, he found that rather than just tides themselves, the relationship of the moon and sun's positions relative to each other may be the determining factor. In addition to the time of moon up (moonrise) - moon down, his research determined that there were intermediate times of the day that occurred in between the two major periods. From that he establishes that there were major periods (moon up - moon down) and minor periods. Knight published the first Solunar table in 1936.\n\nSolunar tables are tables that fishermen and hunters use to determine the best days of the month and times of the day for catching fish and hunting game. Knowing the time of the tides, sunrise, and sunset help fishermen predict when fish are going to bite. For hunters, the tides are not a factor. Hunters use the alignment of the sun and the moon to determine when game are likely to be moving the most. Other conditions not being unfavorable, fish will feed, land animals will move about, birds will sing and fly from place to place, in theory, all living things will become more active, more alive, during solunar periods than at other times of apparent equal value. \"...anglers have found that it is a guide to the best fishing of each day, and the quality of their sport has improved...\" Using these tables, a fisherman and a hunter can tell when the moon is directly underfoot or overhead. The strongest activity occurs when there is a full moon or a new moon, and is weakest when there is a quarter moon or a three quarter moon. This is because the combined gravitational force of the moon and the sun is strongest when both are directly above or directly below our heads. People now have access to better lunar data because of improved technology the US Naval Observatory exploits and also because of the availability of, and improvements to, GPS technology. These new technologies have allowed solunar theory to generate hunting and fishing times with much greater precision. It is important to note that data in tables found on various websites should be reverified periodically with available US Naval Observatory data, as well as compared against other reputable solunar data providers. Inconsistencies abound due to the complex nature of the astrophysics computations and overlooked associated anomalies-checking that are required to produce useful results. Moon transits which do not occur for more than a day, or associated times being off more than a few minutes are indications of a fundamental issue for a given position and should be suspect. All data providers should be verified before assuming data presented is authoritative or accurate. \n\n"}
{"id": "7194760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7194760", "title": "Space Tourism Society", "text": "Space Tourism Society\n\nThe Space Tourism Society (STS) was founded in 1996. It is the first organization specifically focused on the space tourism industry.\n\nTheir stated goals, quoted from their website:\n\"To conduct the research,\nbuild public desire,\nand acquire the financial and political power\nto make space tourism available\nto as many people as possible\nas soon as possible.\"\nSTS has chapters in Japan, Norway, Canada, Malaysia, India, Russia and the United Kingdom, and is an organization member of the Alliance for Space Development.\nThe STS is a California 501(c)3 nonprofit organization based in the USA. STS aims to provide the vision and voice for the evolution of humanity off-world in a humane, fun, and beautiful direction. STS was created to inspire people to build real products for future use in space.\n\n, the president of the society, John Spencer, is designing a space yacht aimed for cruising in Earth orbit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088945", "title": "Supportive housing", "text": "Supportive housing\n\nSupportive housing is a combination of housing and services intended as a cost-effective way to help people live more stable, productive lives, and is an active \"community services and funding\" stream across the United States. Supportive housing is widely believed to work well for those who face the most complex challenges—individuals and families confronted with homelessness and who also have very low incomes and/or serious, persistent issues that may include substance use disorders (including alcoholism), mental health, HIV/AIDS, chronic illness, diverse disabilities (e.g., intellectual disabilities, mobility or sensory impairments) or other serious challenges to stable housing. Supportive housing can be coupled with such social services as job training, life skills training, alcohol and substance use disorder treatment, community support services (e.g., child care, educational programs, coffee claches), and case management to populations in need of assistance. Supportive housing is intended to be a pragmatic solution that helps people have better lives while reducing, to the extent feasible, the overall cost of care. As community housing, supportive housing can be developed as mixed income, scattered site housing not only through the traditional route of low income and building complexes.\n\nSupportive/ed housing has been widely researched in the field of psychiatric disabilities and psychiatric rehabilitation, based in part on housing and support principles from studies of leading community integration organizations nationally In addition, supportive/ed housing has been tied to national initiatives in supportive/ed living (usually developmental and intellectual disabilities) to cross-disability transfer and to national and international efforts on developing homes of one's own. Supported housing in the field of mental health is considered to be a critical component of a community support system which may involve supported education, supported or transitional employment, case management services, clubhouses, supported recreation and involvement of family and friends often translated into psychoeducational programs.\n\nAs a widely supported means to address homelessness (i.e., lack of a place to live or adequate housing), supportive housing seeks to address two key problems:\nIn the capacity building context, support services can be integral to maintaining the housing, the tenant or cooperative relationships, the financial and economic security, the contribution to the family and neighborhoods, and the growth opportunities to return to a valued life situation.\n\nSupportive housing encompasses a range of approaches including single sites (housing developments or apartment buildings in which units are designated as supportive housing) or scattered site programs in which participants often use rent subsidies to obtain housing from private landlord and supportive services may be provided through home visits. Services in supportive housing are flexible and primarily focused on the outcome of housing stability. New approaches to supportive/ed housing include explorations of home ownership for people with disabilities, and a range of diverse consumer-directed, personal assistance and community support services focused on community integration and support. Most common, however, with collaborations involving state, federal and local governments and non-profit sectors are congregate housing programs with service enhancements and increasing choices.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2007, an estimated 65,000 to 72,000 units of supportive housing were created in the United States. This represents about half the supply of supported housing units. Of the new units added, about half were targeted towards chronically homeless individuals, and one-fifth were for homeless families. According to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the number of Permanent Supportive Housing beds in the U.S. increased from 188,636 to 353,800 between 2007 and 2017. Although of the shelter population, the majority remain as single, adult males of minority groups (approximately 65%), 38% were between 31 and 50 years old, and 38% had a disability; the rest were homeless families with a high concentration (likely due to high housing costs)in the states of California, New York and Florida.\n\nSponsors of supportive housing projects generally aim to serve a specific population; the characteristics of those served and the housing program range widely: However, supporters of regular housing and support services in the community suggest choice based on other personal, social, and situational factors than specific population basis (e.g., choice of roommates or housemates, neighborhoods they live in). Targeted population groups (homeless initiatives) include:\n\nToday, important new populations for supported housing in regular neighborhoods include working families, especially those with high proportional housing costs, older adults who need intensive (enriched) services to avoid nursing home placements, and people who need places to live due to the closure of the old style, institutional psychiatric care. Increasingly, supportive/ed housing may be required as unemployment increases, for newly emerging groups such as newly legalized gay and lesbian partners, multi-generational immigrant groups in the new multicultural world, and for those adolescents aging out of their parents' homes to new community options. One of the 2000s textbooks on Supported/ive Housing is a report on state projects in the US for older adults which includes use of the home and community-based (HCBS) waiver, efforts to reform more than 43 congregate residential categories in states, use of housing subsidies for low income persons, assisted living options, \"comprehensive case/care management\", and technical area such as \"at-risk\" housing and non-profit development (Pynoos et al., 2004).\n\nSupportive Housing proposes to be a comprehensive solution to a problem rather than a band-aid fix (such as a shelter.) While many of those who stay in the shelter system remain in or return to the system for extended periods of time, a much higher percentage of those who are placed in supportive housing remain housed on a more permanent basis. This idea is also referred to as the Housing First model, an approach to combating chronic homelessness by providing homes upfront and offering help for illnesses and addictions. The concept turns the traditional model, which typically requires sobriety (or prerequisites) (which can be used for enhanced services before a person can get housing, upside down.\n\nResearch has shown that coupling permanent housing with supportive services is highly effective at maintaining housing stability, as well as helps improve health outcomes and decreases the use of publicly funded institutions. A review of the impact of these services found that they can improve health outcomes among chronically homeless individuals, including positive changes in self-reported mental health status, substance use, and overall well-being. In the Collaborative Initiative to Help End Chronic Homelessness (CICH), participants who had been homeless for an average of eight years were immediately placed into permanent housing. The CICH evaluation reported that 95% of those individuals were in independent housing after 12 months. A study of homeless people in New York City with serious mental illness found that providing supportive housing to the individuals directly resulted in a 60% decrease in emergency shelter use for clients, as well as decreases in the use of public medical and mental health services and city jails and state prisons. Another study in Seattle in 2009 found that moving \"people with chronic alcoholism\" into supportive housing resulted in a 33% decline in alcohol use for clients.\n\nThere is significant support for the contention that supportive housing also costs less than other systems where its tenant base may reside, such as jails, hospitals, mental health facilities, and even shelters. Research on the overall costs to the taxpayer of supportive housing has consistently found the costs to the taxpayer to be about the same or lower than the alternative of a chronically homeless person sleeping in a shelter. The CICH evaluation showed that average costs for healthcare and treatment were reduced by about half, which the largest decline associated with inpatient hospital care. The use of supportive housing has been shown to be cost-effective, resulting in reductions in the use of shelter, ambulance, police/jail, health care, emergency room, behavior health, and other service costs. For example, one 2016 report identified studies documenting that these services can reduce health care costs, emergency department visits, and length of stays in psychiatric hospitals. The Denver Housing First Collaborative documented that the annual cost of supportive housing for a chronically homeless individual was $13,400. However, the per-person reduction in public services recorded by the Denver Housing First Collaborative came to $15,773 per person per year, more than compensating for the annual supportive housing costs.\n\nWhen paired with low-income housing (or mixed-income housing), government subsidies (such as section 8 or Housing choice vouchers) and other revenue generating operations, supportive housing residences are claimed by their supporters to be capable of supporting themselves and even turning a profit (which can be used for enhanced services and amenities for the residents by a non-profit organization). According to a 2007 study done by the National Alliance to End Homelessness, supportive housing helps tenants increase their incomes, work more, get arrested less, make more progress toward recovery, and become more active, valued and productive members of their communities.\n\nSupportive housing can help people facing health challenges to continue to live in the community. However, proposals for new housing projects often faced local opposition, largely based on fears regarding adverse effects on property values and crime rates, local businesses, and the quality of life in the surrounding neighborhood. A 2008 study in Toronto, Canada reported:\n\nOne of the benefits of supportive/ed housing which is integrated into the community is that local opposition and fears are minimized. Neighborhoods have been studied as part of the development of community support, and as places for the development of personal connections and neighborhood relations. In addition, a capacity-based approach to neighborhood development can be made integral to the development of supportive/ed housing, including aspects of neighborhood asset building. In many ways, these projects can be a return to neighborhood based control of services' planning which resulted in the 1990s in new housing developments, after school programs, parent support groups, respite care and similar initiatives in the field of children's mental health,\n\nPrevailing rental rates and prices for housing in many U.S. real estate markets complicate efforts to acquire and adapt existing buildings and building sites for use as supportive housing. The combination of circumstances confronting supportive housing proposals and their advocates can produce the belief that most such housing proposals are unfeasible.\n\nSome projects fail to materialize because of a real or perceived lack of government program funds, charitable grants, bank loans or a combination of such funding to pay for the cost of creating and operating financially viable supportive housing. Other organizations, however, have accessed diverse mix and match funding for highly visible community demonstrations for special population groups.\n\nEnterprise Community Partners is one of many nonprofit organizations that finances supportive housing through tax credits, grants and loans. They pioneered the financing of supportive housing through the low-income housing tax credit in 1991, overturning the conventional wisdom that investors would not embrace these projects. Consultants specialize in the creative use of housing financing, and supportive housing consultants and technical assistance collaboratives are now available for assistance to localities.\n\nEarly directions for financing of housing and support services in the community included financing sources, such as housing cooperative programs, mixed income housing associations, community development block grants, loans for accessibility programs, tax exempt bonds, trust funds, housing subsidies, and low interest loans. The housing communities and institutes in the US, as early as the early 1980s, included Institute for Community Economics, McAuley Institute, Women's Institute for Housing and Economic Development, Habitat for Humanity, the Housing Technical Assistance Project of the ARCs, Local Support Corporation (LISC), University of Vermont (Center for Community Change through Housing and Support), Creative Management Associates, Enterprise Foundation, and National Housing Coalition.\n\nThe US Department of Housing and Urban Development regularly makes available free information on housing financing and developments in the US through their website, including \"Research Works\" (in 2011, also on sustainability and green initiatives) and \"US Housing Market Conditions\". Specific technical resources are available to providers and researchers such as on Section 8 or housing vouchers (portable vouchers) \n\nWhere traditional solutions—institutions, charitable organizations or other methods—are recognized as inadequate solutions for the situation, national, regional and local officials have come to believe that homelessness is a problem that can and should be solved by other means. In some areas, this produced a movement to find alternative solutions rather than continuing to fund the traditional solutions, including shelter system, jails, asylums and hospitals. In addition to homelessness, the movement today is to downsize or close psychiatric centers (e.g., Olmstead initiative) and develop regular options for housing and support in the local communities; these population groups have also been counted in some reports as the homeless populations.\n\nIn the U.S., hundreds of city governments have produced \"10-year plans\" that provide for supportive housing to end chronic homelessness because the Bush administration began pushing for creation of the plans in 2003. The goal: put the homeless people with complex situations and needs into permanent or transitional \"supportive\" housing with counseling services that help them get healthy lifestyles of their own choosing. The evidence shows supportive housing may be a viable solution: the number of street people in cities across the United States has plummeted for the first time since the 1980s. In 2005–2006, Miami, Florida reported a 20% decline in homeless populations and dozens of other U.S. cities reported similar census results: San Francisco, CA (30%), Portland, OR (20%), Dallas, TX (28%), New York, NY (13%).\n\nGuided by research, Congress has taken several steps to encourage the development of permanent supportive housing. Beginning in the late 1990s, appropriations bills have increased funding for HUD’s homeless assistance programs and targeted at least 30 percent of funding to permanent supportive housing. Congress has also provided funding to ensure that permanent supportive housing funded by one of HUD’s programs (Shelter Plus Care) would be renewed non-competitively, helping to ensure that chronically homeless people could remain in their housing. The 2009 legislative mandate from the Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing (HEARTH) Act created bipartisan political support to adopt a collaborative approach to end homelessness. From this effort spawned the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness’s Opening Doors Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness in 2010. With a focus on permanent supportive housing as a means of ending chronic homelessness, the plan outlines an interagency effort aligning mainstream housing, health, education, and human services.\n\nSeller's Markets: where demand exceeds the supply of permanent supportive housing, many housing providers can be selective when admitting tenants. While this can lead to an improved quality of life and a relatively high success rate for the most fortunate applicants, the unsuccessful homeless remain in unsatisfactory situations. To some extent, this problem is being addressed by \"first step\" programs aimed at preparing people for residency in permanent housing. Exclusionary practices always exist in the residential and housing fields, against human rights laws, however, there does remain lack of an affordable, accessible supply of housing the US, similar to the waiting lists for portable housing vouchers.\n\nOne impediment to the development of additional housing stock where it is otherwise needed, permissible and feasible is the lack of real estate acquisition, development & financing expertise in the government agencies and non-profit (non-governmental) organizations interested in serving those who need and want supportive housing. The US Housing and Urban Development Department is trying to bridge that information and knowledge gap with the availability of regular reports on market and housing conditions throughout the nation, and statistics on all kinds of housing developments (e.g., homeownership, multifamily structures).\n\nIn addition, there is a widening affordability gap in housing, especially with the lowest income households. \"Experts point to several factors contributing to this gap: erosion in the housing stock, high housing prices, a drop in real wages, a decline in middle wage jobs, increases in transportation costs, expensive development requirements, regulatory constraints, and insufficient housing assistance funds to meet the needs.\" \n\nStudies cited by supporters conclude that supportive housing is a cost-effective solution for the problems of several populations; it is substantially less costly than most alternatives used to address the problems of homeless people, including shelters, institutions and hospitals. Supportive Housing often reduces the cost of emergency services for health care provided by governmental and non-profit agencies. The \"chronically homeless\", the 10-20% who are continually on the street with addiction and mental problems impose heavy costs on their communities in hospital, jail and other services—hundreds of thousands of dollars apiece annually in some instances.\n\nPer a study published in JAMA in 2009, a supportive housing development called 1811 Eastlake saved taxpayers $4 million in the first year of operation alone, because these residents are now off the streets and out of emergency rooms and in a safe, steady and supportive living environment. The 1811 Eastlake study compared 95 Housing First participants, with 39 wait-list control members and found cost reductions of over 50 percent for the Housing First group. While it is not the first published evidence of the service use reductions and cost savings that permanent supportive housing interventions can provide, it is worth highlighting because the level of the cost savings – almost $30,000 per person per year after accounting for housing program costs – are greater than some seminal studies that have shown more modest cost offsets through permanent supportive housing. 1811 Eastlake provided assistance to homeless people with extensive health issues and still saw a savings of nearly $30,000 per tenant per year in publicly funded services, all while achieving improved housing and health outcomes.\n\nIn Oregon, Portland’s Community Engagement Program provides housing and intensive services to homeless individuals with mental illness and addictions. The program reduced the cost of health care and incarcerations from $42,075 to $17,199. The investment in services and housing during the first year of enrollment was averaged to approximately $9,870. This represents a 35.7% ($15,006 per person) annual cost saving for the first year following enrollment in CEP.\n\nSupportive housing can be considered to be a human right to a decent life in the US. The cost-benefits can be viewed as immeasureable when viewed through the lenses of benefits to self, family, friends, neighbors, community organizations, health, safety and welfare (government), and local communities. For example, cost-benefits typically relate to governmental expenditures, which may involve cost-shifting among governmental levels and departments, and benefits usually refer to the governmental benefits related to its agenda (E.g., Deinstitutionalization, transinstitutionalization, decongregation, decategorization, Community integration) expressed for the individual and family as life outcomes.\n\nHowever, supportive housing, especially as assisted living, may be congregate in nature either related to hospital and nursing home systems reform on one hand (E.g., Pynoos et al., 2004), or in psychiatric, to its categorical disability service system with roots in community services systems and psychiatric hospitals (Racino, in press, 2014). In the field of intellectual disabilities, the term Supportive living is more common with decongregated, small size homes and apartments with choice options throughout local communities.\n\nThe US has experienced an effort to move from facility-based services to more of a housing and support approach in regular homes in typical neighborhoods. This movement has involved the development of principles of housing and support which could apply across different disability groups interested in moving from the facility-based (bundled program) approach to \"housing and support\". These principles are:\nSupported housing, in particular, involves moving from traditional residential models in mental health community services (e.g., halfway houses and group homes, transitional residences/apartment programs, Fairweather Lodges) to the newer community support approaches which allow greater choice and flexibility in roommates, homes, and neighborhoods. In particular, this period supported consumer housing preferences to form the basis for better quality housing and recognition of consumer choice. However, the primary concern remained the requirements of residential providers (no \"zero reject\" policy, this field), especially when addictions were identified as the primary concern for a few people/residents.\n\nSupportive housing, in addition to \"quality assurance procedures\", are meant to \"ensure quality of care and quality of life\"; Sheehan and Oakes (2004) indicate that residents may be reluctant to complain on satisfaction surveys since they may be relocated to even stricter nursing facilities. However, these projects have included Real Systems Change Grants \"to enhance opportunities for independent living for people with disabilities and to assist 3 communities (in Connecticut) to become models of inclusion of people with disabilities\" and to transition from the nursing facilities (Ibid, 2004).\n\nSupportive housing providers in the US include large non-profit developers which may have separate housing and services corporations. Such supportive housing providers often are regulated by both the state and federal governments, and initiatives in fields such as mental health and community housing are current in the New York 2014 Executive Budget; however, still as \"expansion of bed capacity\". Corporation for Supportive Housing often provides assistance to new projects and developments which have included the HIV-AIDS communities in the US highlighted by the US Housing and Urban Development Departments in Washington, DC.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPermanent Supportive Housing for Homeless People — Reframing the Debate\n\nImpact of a New York City supportive housing program on Medicaid expenditure patterns among people with serious mental illness and chronic homelessness\n\nPermanent Supportive Housing: Addressing Homelessness and Health Disparities?\n\nAddressing Chronic Disease Within Supportive Housing Programs\n\nDetroit’s focus on supportive housing drives down homelessness 15 percent\n"}
{"id": "45344392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45344392", "title": "Syrian units of measurement", "text": "Syrian units of measurement\n\nA number of units of measurement were used in Syria to measure length, mass, capacity, etc. The Metric system was adopted in 1935 in Syria.\n\nA number of units were used.\n\nOne pic was equal to 0.582 m.\n\nA number of units were used to measure mass. One rottolo was equal to 1.785 kg. Some other units were given below:\n\n1 drachme = 1/600 rottolo\n\n1 pesi = 1/600 rottolo\n\n1 metecali = 1/400 rottolo\n\n1 mitcal = 1/400 rottolo\n\n1 once = 1/60 rottolo\n\n1 zurbo = 27.5 rottolo\n\n1 cola = 35 rottolo\n\n1 cantar = 100 rottolo.\n\nSeveral units were used to measure capacity. One rotl was equal to 3.2 l. Some other units are given below:\n\n1 makuk = 250 rotl\n\n1 garava = 450 rotl.\n"}
{"id": "41299443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41299443", "title": "The Culture of Connectivity", "text": "The Culture of Connectivity\n\nThe Culture of Connectivity: A Critical History of Social Media is a book by José van Dijck published by Oxford University Press in 2013 on social media platforms and their history. The author critically considers the histories of five social media platforms: Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, YouTube and Wikipedia. Van Dijck's approach is based on the premise that to understand the full weight of social media, their technological dimensions should be connected to the social and the cultural.\n\nThe title of the work alludes to how the rise of social media has created a culture in which a (profitable) connectivity is dominant.\n\nIn the book, Van Dijck critically reads the histories of five social media platforms according to an approach that brings into focus how their technological, social and cultural dimensions contribute to their current status.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "297239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297239", "title": "The Hero with a Thousand Faces", "text": "The Hero with a Thousand Faces\n\nThe Hero with a Thousand Faces (first published in 1949) is a work of comparative mythology by Joseph Campbell. In this book, Campbell discusses his theory of the mythological structure of the journey of the archetypal hero found in world myths. \n\nSince the publication of \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\", Campbell's theory has been consciously applied by a wide variety of modern writers and artists. Filmmaker George Lucas acknowledged Campbell's theory in mythology, and its influence on the \"Star Wars\" films.\n\nThe Joseph Campbell Foundation and New World Library issued a new edition of \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" in July 2008 as part of the Collected Works of Joseph Campbell series of books, audio and video recordings. In 2011, \"Time\" placed the book in its list of the 100 best and most influential books written in English since the magazine was founded in 1923.\n\nCampbell explores the theory that mythological narratives frequently share a fundamental structure. The similarities of these myths brought Campbell to write his book in which he details the structure of the \"monomyth\". He calls the motif of the archetypal narrative, \"the hero's journey\". In a well-known quote from the introduction to \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\", Campbell summarizes the monomyth:\n\nIn laying out the monomyth, Campbell describes a number of stages or steps along this journey. \"The hero's journey\" begins in the \"ordinary world\". He must depart from the \"ordinary world\", when he receives a \"call to adventure\". With the help of a \"mentor\", the hero will cross a \"guarded threshold\", leading him to a supernatural world, where familiar laws and order do not apply. There, the hero will embark on a \"road of trial\"s, where he is tested along the way. The archetypal hero is sometimes assisted by \"allies\". As the hero faces the \"ordeal,\" he encounters the greatest challenge of the journey. Upon rising to the challenge, the hero will receive a reward, or \"boon\". Campbell's theory of the monomyth continues with the inclusion of a metaphorical \"death\" and \"resurrection\". The hero must then decide to return with this \"boon\" to the \"ordinary world\". The hero then faces more trials on \"the road back\". Upon the hero's return, the boon or gift may be used to improve the hero's ordinary world, in what Campbell calls, the \"application of the boon\".\n\nWhile many myths do seem to follow the outline of Campbell's monomyth, there is some variance in the inclusion and sequence of some of the stages. Still, there is an abundance of literature and folklore that follows the motif of the archetypal narrative, paralleling the more general steps of \"Departure\" (sometimes called \"Separation\"), \"Initiation\", and \"Return\". \"Departure\" deals with the hero venturing forth on the quest, including the \"call to adventure. \"Initiation\" refers to the hero's adventures that will test him along the way. The last part of the monomyth is the \"Return\", which follows the hero's journey home. \n\nCampbell studied mythological and literary classics including the stories of Osiris, Prometheus, the Buddha, Moses, Mohammed, and Jesus. Campbell's book cites the similarities of the stories, and references them as he breaks down the structure of the monomyth. \n\nThe book includes a discussion of \"the hero's journey\" by using the Freudian concepts popular in the 1940s and 1950s. Campbell's theory incorporates a mixture of Jungian archetypes, unconscious forces, and Arnold van Gennep's structuring of rites of passage rituals to provide some illumination. \"The hero's journey\" continues to influence artists and intellectuals in contemporary arts and culture, suggesting a basic usefulness for Campbell's insights beyond mid-20th century forms of analysis.\n\nCampbell used the work of early 20th century theorists to develop his model of the hero (see also structuralism), including Freud (particularly the Oedipus complex), Carl Jung (archetypal figures and the collective unconscious), and Arnold Van Gennep . Van Gennep contributed the concept of there being three stages of \"The Rites of Passage\". Campbell translated this into Separation, Initiation and Return. He also looked to the work of psychologist Otto Rank and ethnographers James George Frazer and Franz Boas. \n\nCampbell was a noted scholar of James Joyce, having co-authored \"A Skeleton Key to Finnegans Wake\" with Henry Morton Robinson. Campbell borrowed the term \"monomyth\" from Joyce's \"Finnegans Wake\". In addition, Joyce's \"Ulysses\" was also highly influential in the structuring of the archetypal motif. \n\nThe book was originally published by the Bollingen Foundation through Pantheon Press as the seventeenth title in the Bollingen Series. This series was taken over by Princeton University Press, who published the book through 2006. Originally issued in 1949 and revised by Campbell in 1968, \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" has been reprinted a number of times. Reprints issued after the release of \"Star Wars\" in 1977 used the image of Mark Hamill as Luke Skywalker on the cover. Princeton University Press issued a commemorative printing of the second edition in 2004 on the occasion of the joint centennial of Campbell's birth and the Press's founding with an added foreword by Clarissa Pinkola Estés.\n\nA third edition, compiled by the Joseph Campbell Foundation and published by New World Library, was released as the twelfth title in the Collected Works of Joseph Campbell series in July 2008.\n\n\"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" has been translated into over twenty languages, including Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Chinese (simplified and traditional), Turkish, Dutch, Greek, Danish, Norwegian, Persian, Polish, Romanian, Czech, Croatian, Serbian, Slovenian, Russian, Hungarian, Bulgarian and Hebrew, and has sold well over a million copies worldwide.\n\nIn \"Pathways to Bliss: Mythology and Personal Transformation\", a book drawn from Campbell's late lectures and workshops, he says about artists and the monomyth:\n\n\"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" has influenced a number of artists, filmmakers, musicians, and poets. Some of these figures include Bob Dylan, George Lucas, and Jim Morrison. Additionally, Mickey Hart, Bob Weir, and Jerry Garcia of the Grateful Dead had long noted Campbell's influence and participated in a seminar with Campbell in 1986, entitled \"From Ritual to Rapture\".\n\nStanley Kubrick introduced Arthur C. Clarke to the book during the writing of \"\".\n\nGeorge Lucas' deliberate use of Campbell's theory of the monomyth in the making of the \"Star Wars\" movies is well documented. On the DVD release of the famous colloquy between Campbell and Bill Moyers, filmed at Lucas' Skywalker Ranch and broadcast in 1988 on PBS as \"The Power of Myth\", Campbell and Moyers discussed Lucas's use of \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" in making his films. Lucas himself discussed how Campbell's work affected his approach to storytelling and film-making.\n\nJenova Chen, lead designer at thatgamecompany, also cites \"The Hero's Journey\" as the primary inspiration for the PlayStation 3 game \"Journey\" (2012).\n\nMark Rosewater, head designer of the \"\" trading card game, cites \"The Hero's Journey\" as a major inspiration for , an epic story arc that went from 1997 to 2001, and spanned multiple card sets, comic books, and novels.\n\nChristopher Vogler, a Hollywood film producer and writer, wrote a memo for Disney Studios on the use of \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" as a guide for scriptwriters; this memo influenced the creation of such films as \"Aladdin\" (1992), \"The Lion King\" (1994), and \"Beauty and the Beast\" (1991). Vogler later expanded the memo and published it as the book \"\", which became the inspiration for a number of successful Hollywood films and is believed to have been used in the development of the \"Matrix\" series.\n\nNovelist Richard Adams acknowledges a debt to Campbell's work, and specifically to the concept of the monomyth. In his best known work, \"Watership Down\", Adams uses extracts from \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" as chapter epigrams.\n\nAuthor Neil Gaiman, whose work is frequently seen as exemplifying the monomyth structure, says that he started \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" but refused to finish it: \"I think I got about half way through \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" and found myself thinking if this is true—I don't want to know. I really would rather not know this stuff. I’d rather do it because it's true and because I accidentally wind up creating something that falls into this pattern than be told what the pattern is.\"Many scholars and reviewers have noted how closely J. K. Rowling's popular \"Harry Potter\" books hewed to the monomyth schema.\n\nDan Harmon, the creator of the TV show \"Community\", has stated that he has used the monomyth as inspiration for his work.\n\nThe sixth and final season of \"Lost\" recognizes Campbell's theories on the hero. During one of the bonus features, the makers of the series discuss the journey of the main characters and how each is a hero in their own way. Before each little segment of this particular feature, they quote Campbell and then expound on that particular quote by discussing the various characters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36589067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36589067", "title": "The Nightingale casting controversy", "text": "The Nightingale casting controversy\n\nIn 2012, the La Jolla Playhouse generated nationwide controversy for the casting of a musical adaptation of a Hans Christian Andersen story \"The Nightingale\", set in ancient China. The play was part of the La Jolla Playhouse's \"Page to Stage\" program, a workshop series in which unfinished new works are tested and altered during the show's run. Two Asian-American actors were cast, and the remainder of the cast were African-American and Caucasian. The Asian American Theatre Community expressed their indignity on the lack of Asian-American actors cast.\n\nThe casting controversy generated significant response from the Asian American theater and artistic community, particularly because similar controversies have occurred in the past, as when Jonathan Pryce was cast to play the Eurasian lead in the musical, \"Miss Saigon\".\n\nDuring a public forum to address the debate, the idea for which having been generated by a letter of protest from the Asian American Performers' Action Coalition, Christopher Ashley, the current Artistic Director of the La Jolla Playhouse, stated that it was his effort to follow a multi-ethnic casting principle for the play. Ashley and director Moises Kaufman both expressed an understanding and acknowledgement of the criticisms, and clarified their ongoing focus, through the play's series of workshops, to explore multiple ways of telling the story through a multi-cultural lens. Kaufman later told the Los Angeles Times that his intention was to combine elements of both Eastern and Western cultures and that he was open to a version of the show with an all-Asian cast.\n\nSpeaking from the audience, book writer Steven Sater addressed the issue in depth. He stated that the play, based on the Danish fairy tale \"The Nightingale\" which is written by Hans Christian Andersen and set in ancient China, had gone through seven workshops \"in a number of directions with a number of directors\" over the course of its development, with each exploring his overall vision of the piece. He described his vision as comprising a blend of cultures with a focus on the mythical elements and heritage of the fable on which it was based, in lieu of traditional realism.\n\nIn 2003, the show's first workshop took place at the O'Neill Conference and utilized a multi-cultural cast, including an African-American actress playing the Empress Dowager and an Indian-American actor playing the Young Emperor, which Sater described as \"a beautiful casting choice at the time\" and demonstrative of the play being \"always a story about enlightenment.\"\n\nIn 2007, the play was workshopped at the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco with director James Lapine, and utilized an all-Asian cast. Sater acknowledged the significant part in the show's development process that this particular workshop played, saying:\n\nIt was a beautiful workshop of the piece. But we all came out of it feeling a number of things, one of which was that we felt, as white creators, we would not presume to know, or to tell, the story of Asia. We felt that the music which existed for the piece, and the storytelling, which more than anything else is informed by Shakespeare, really, is my influence, and coming from a Danish telling of the story. I wanted to tell a story that reflected the world in which I live, which is multi-cultural, and multi-ethnic. I still feel this.\n\nDuring the forum, Sater acknowledged the sociopolitical issues arising out of the \"longstanding inequities of the system in American theater\" and the need \"as an artist of social consciousness to be mindful of those issues and to address them.\" He stated, \"When I began work on this show, it was in 2001. It was in the wake of 9/11 and what spoke to me in this story was the way \"The Song of the Human Heart\" could bring down the walls that divide us.\" Sater also expanded on his influences in writing the play, saying:\n\nI also have to address what's in my heart, and my artistic vision for this piece. I think if art is anything, it exists to bring out the humanity in all of us and that is what we're trying to tell in the song of this bird, the nightingale, who brings out the humanity in a man whose heart has been closed and turned cold. We did not set out to do an all-Asian cast, an all-Asian version, and then give up on that idea. Rather, it's something we explored, as this cast is something we're exploring, on a piece that remains to be finished. I was writing for a vision that was in my mind, and that vision always was, and remains to be, multi-cultural, and multi-ethnic; and however imperfect its realization here may be, that's the vision I continue to embrace for the piece.\n\nComposer Duncan Sheik stated in an interview after the panel that the discussion had \"affected my thinking of the show. My head is spinning.\"\n\nIn 2011, the musical was workshopped at Vassar's Powerhouse Theater with a multi-ethnic cast (also directed by Kaufman).\n\n\nWith Nikki Castillo, Bobby Steggert, Charlayne Woodard, Kimiko Glenn, Eisa Davis, Jonathan Hammond, Corbin Reid, Aaron Serotsky, Steve Gunderson, Matthew Patrick Davis, Chelsea Diggs-Smith and Zach Martens.\n\nPerformance Dates: July 10 – August 5, 2012, Sheila and Hughes Potiker Theatre\n"}
{"id": "31300528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31300528", "title": "Ukrainophilia", "text": "Ukrainophilia\n\nUkrainophilia is the love of or identification with Ukraine and Ukrainians; its opposite is Ukrainophobia. The term is used primarily in a political and cultural context. \"Ukrainophilia\" and \"Ukrainophile\" are the terms used to denote pro-Ukrainian sentiments, usually in politics and literature. Ukrainophilia was severely persecuted by the imperial Russian government. Ukrainian-language books and theater were banned.\n\nUkrainophilia arose as a movement in Poland in the first half of the 19th century, among Polish writers of the so-called \"Ukrainian school\" and later among ethnic Poles in Ukraine, who wrote poems and songs in the Ukrainian language. The Ukrainophile movement also developed among ethnic Ukrainian intellectuals in the Russian Empire and Galicia in the second half of the 19th century. Ukrainophiles sought to preserve and develop the Ukrainian language, literature and culture. They called for the introduction of the Ukrainian language in Ukrainian schools and the autonomy from the Russian Empire, that would allow for national self-determination of Ukrainians and free development of Ukrainian culture.\n\nUkrainophilia in the 19th century included various degrees of intensity, from the simple love of one's people all the way to passionate nationalism and independence.\n\nThe Ukrainophile movement in Russian literature led to the publishing of books and textbooks in the Ukrainian language. Ukrainophile intellectuals published a number of journals: \"Osnova\" in St. Petersburg (1861–62), \"Chernigovskiy Listok\", \"Samostaine Slovo\", \"Hromadnytsia\", \"Pomyinytsia\". They also sought to popularize the Ukrainian language by publishing pamphlets in Ukrainian. Ukrainophiles of the Russian Empire also created a network of Ukrainophile organizations, the most important of which were in St. Petersburg, Moscow, Kiev, Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Poltava and Odessa, which actively sought to organize Ukrainian-language instruction in schools.\n\nAfter the Russian Empire crushed the Polish uprising of 1863, the Russian government put intense pressure on the Ukrainophile movement (Valuyev Circular in 1863, Ems Ukaz in 1876), but the movement continued flaring up, especially in early 1870s and late 1880s. After the movement was repressed, most of its members turned their attention away from political organizing to literary work, such as creating Ukrainian dictionaries, writing Ukrainian books, developing the discipline of Ukrainian studies. During the Soviet period the Ukrainophile movement was characterized as a \"burgeois-national\" movement.\n\nUkrainophilia exists among the Ukrainian diaspora in Russia, North America and elsewhere. \n\nThe population of the Caucasian nation of Azerbaijan has a very positive attitude towards the Ukrainian people and independent Ukraine was one of the first countries that Azerbaijan established relations with.\n\nCanada has shown many Ukrainophile tendencies, owing in part to a large Ukrainian diaspora. Canada, for example, was the first nation in the world to recognize national independence of modern Ukraine.\n\nIn the 1990s many Jewish people emigrated from the former Soviet states, especially from Ukraine, to Israel. Jewish Ukrainians had lived in Ukraine for centuries, having partially assimilated, intermarried and adopted the culture of the people that they lived among. Even today many Ukrainian Jews in Israel feel a sense of connection to and pride with Ukraine, and are still influenced by Ukrainian culture, language and food.\n\nSome European nations are also quite Ukrainophilic today. A notable example is Poland, as it has become the closest Ukrainian ally in the EU. Poland was also one of the first countries in the world to recognize the national independence of modern Ukraine (the first being Canada).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32231", "title": "Urdu", "text": "Urdu\n\nUrdu (; )—or, more precisely, Modern Standard Urdu—is a Persianised standard register of the Hindustani language. It is the official and \"lingua franca\" of Pakistan. In India, it is one of the 22 official languages recognized in the Constitution of India, having official status in the six states of Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, as well as the national capital territory of Delhi. It is a registered regional language of Nepal.\n\nApart from specialized vocabulary, spoken Urdu is mutually intelligible with Standard Hindi, another recognized register of Hindustani. The Urdu variant of Hindustani received recognition and patronage under British rule when the British replaced the local official languages with English and Hindustani written in Nastaʿlīq script, as the official language in North and Northwestern India. Religious, social, and political factors pushed for a distinction between Urdu and Hindi in India, leading to the Hindi–Urdu controversy.\n\nAccording to Nationalencyklopedin's 2010 estimates, Urdu is the 21st most spoken first language in the world, with approximately 66 million speakers. According to Ethnologue's 2017 estimates, Urdu, along with standard Hindi and the languages of the Hindi belt (as Hindustani), is the 3rd most spoken language in the world, with approximately 329.1 million native speakers, and 697.4 million total speakers.\n\nUrdu, like Hindi, is a form of Hindustani. It evolved from the medieval (6th to 13th century) Apabhraṃśa register of the preceding Shauraseni language, a Middle Indo-Aryan language that is also the ancestor of other modern Indo-Aryan languages. Around 75% of Urdu words have their etymological roots in Sanskrit and Prakrit, and approximately 99% of Urdu verbs have their roots in Sanskrit and Prakrit. Because Persian-speaking sultans ruled the Indian subcontinent for a number of years, Urdu was influenced by Persian and to a lesser extent, Arabic, which have contributed to about 25% of Urdu's vocabulary. Although the word \"Urdu\" is derived from the Turkic word \"ordu\" (army) or orda, from which English \"horde\" is also derived, Turkic borrowings in Urdu are minimal and Urdu is also not genetically related to the Turkic languages. Urdu words originating from Chagatai and Arabic were borrowed through Persian and hence are Persianized versions of the original words. For instance, the Arabic \"ta' marbuta\" (  ) changes to \"he\" (  ) or \"te\" (  ). Nevertheless, contrary to popular belief, Urdu did not borrow from the Turkish language, but from Chagatai, a Turkic language from Central Asia. Urdu and Turkish borrowed from Arabic and Persian, hence the similarity in pronunciation of many Urdu and Turkish words.\n\nArabic influence in the region began with the late first-millennium Muslim conquests of the Indian subcontinent. The Persian language was introduced into the subcontinent a few centuries later by various Persianized Central Asian Turkic and Afghan dynasties including that of Mahmud of Ghazni. The Turko-Afghan Delhi Sultanate established Persian as its official language, a policy continued by the Mughal Empire, which extended over most of northern South Asia from the 16th to 18th centuries and cemented Persian influence on the developing Hindustani.\n\nThe name \"Urdu\" was first used by the poet Ghulam Hamadani Mushafi around 1780. From the 13th century until the end of the 18th century Urdu was commonly known as Hindi. The language was also known by various other names such as \"Hindavi\" and \"Dehlavi\". Hindustani in Persian script was used by Muslims and Hindus, but was current chiefly in Muslim-influenced society. The communal nature of the language lasted until it replaced Persian as the official language in 1837 and was made co-official, along with English. Hindustani was promoted in British India by British policies to counter the previous emphasis on Persian. This triggered a Hindu backlash in northwestern India, which argued that the language should be written in the native Devanagari script. This literary standard called \"Hindi\" replaced Urdu as the official language of Bihar in 1881, establishing a sectarian divide of \"Urdu\" for Muslims and \"Hindi\" for Hindus, a divide that was formalized with the division of India and Pakistan after independence (though there are Hindu poets who continue to write in Urdu to this day, with post-independence examples including Gopi Chand Narang and Gulzar).\n\nThere have been attempts to \"purify\" Urdu and Hindi, by purging Urdu of Sanskrit words, and Hindi of Persian loanwords, and new vocabulary draws primarily from Persian and Arabic for Urdu and from Sanskrit for Hindi. English has exerted a heavy influence on both as a co-official language.\n\nThere are over 100 million native speakers of Urdu in India (more than 80% of it) and Pakistan together: there were 52 million and 80.5 million Urdu speakers in India (some 5% and 6.5% of the total population of India) as per the 2001 and 2011 censuses respectively; approximately 10 million in Pakistan or 7.57% as per the 1998 census and 16 million in 2006 estimates; and several hundred thousand in the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, United States, and Bangladesh (where it is called \"Bihari\"). However, a knowledge of Urdu allows one to speak with far more people than that, because Hindustani, of which Urdu is one variety, is the third most commonly spoken language in the world, after Mandarin and English .\nBecause of the difficulty in distinguishing between Urdu and Hindi speakers in India and Pakistan, as well as estimating the number of people for whom Urdu is a second language, the estimated number of speakers is uncertain and controversial.\n\nOwing to interaction with other languages, Urdu has become localized wherever it is spoken, including in Pakistan. Urdu in Pakistan has undergone changes and has incorporated and borrowed many words from regional languages, thus allowing speakers of the language in Pakistan to distinguish themselves more easily and giving the language a decidedly Pakistani flavour. Similarly, the Urdu spoken in India can also be distinguished into many dialects like Dakhni (Deccan) of South India, and Khariboli of the Punjab region. Because of Urdu's similarity to Hindi, speakers of the two languages can easily understand one another if both sides refrain from using specialized vocabulary. The syntax (grammar), morphology, and the core vocabulary are essentially identical. Thus linguists usually count them as one single language and contend that they are considered as two different languages for socio-political reasons.\n\nIn Pakistan, Urdu is mostly learned as a second or a third language as nearly 93% of Pakistan's population has a native language other than Urdu. Despite this, Urdu was chosen as a token of unity and as a lingua franca so as not to give any native Pakistani language preference over the other. Urdu is therefore spoken and understood by the vast majority in some form or another, including a majority of urban dwellers in such cities as Karachi, Lahore, Okara District, Sialkot, Rawalpindi, Islamabad, Multan, Faisalabad, Hyderabad, Peshawar, Quetta, Jhang, Sargodha and Skardu. It is written, spoken and used in all provinces/territories of Pakistan although the people from differing provinces may have different indigenous languages, as from the fact that it is the \"base language\" of the country. For this reason, it is also taught as a compulsory subject up to higher secondary school in both English and Urdu medium school systems. This has produced millions of Urdu speakers from people whose native language is one of the other languages of Pakistan, who can read and write only Urdu. It is absorbing many words from the regional languages of Pakistan. This variation of Urdu is sometimes referred to as Pakistani Urdu.\n\nAlthough most of the population is conversant in Urdu, it is the first language of only an estimated 7% of the population who are mainly Muslim immigrants (known as Muhajir in Pakistan) from different parts of South Asia. The regional languages are also being influenced by Urdu vocabulary. There are millions of Pakistanis whose native language is not Urdu, but because they have studied in Urdu medium schools, they can read and write Urdu along with their native language. Most of the nearly five million Afghan refugees of different ethnic origins (such as Pashtun, Tajik, Uzbek, Hazarvi, and Turkmen) who stayed in Pakistan for over twenty-five years have also become fluent in Urdu. With such a large number of people(s) speaking Urdu, the language has acquired a peculiar Pakistani flavour further distinguishing it from the Urdu spoken by native speakers and diversifying the language even further.\n\nMany newspapers are published in Urdu in Pakistan, including the \"Daily Jang\", \"Nawa-i-Waqt\", \"Millat\", among many others (see List of newspapers in Pakistan#Urdu language newspapers).\n\nIn India, Urdu is spoken in places where there are large Muslim minorities or cities that were bases for Muslim Empires in the past. These include parts of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra (Marathwada), Karnataka and cities such as Lucknow, Delhi, Bareilly, Meerut, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Roorkee, Deoband, Moradabad, Azamgarh, Bijnor, Najibabad, Rampur, Aligarh, Allahabad, Gorakhpur, Agra, Kanpur, Badaun, Bhopal, Hyderabad, Aurangabad, Bangalore, Kolkata, Mysore, Patna, Gulbarga, Parbhani, Nanded, Kochi, Malegaon, Bidar, Ajmer, and Ahmedabad. Some Indian schools teach Urdu as a first language and have their own syllabi and exams. Indian madrasahs also teach Arabic as well as Urdu. India has more than 3,000 Urdu publications, including 405 daily Urdu newspapers. Newspapers such as \"Neshat News Urdu\", \"Sahara Urdu\", \"Daily Salar\", \"Hindustan Express\", \"Daily Pasban\", \"Siasat Daily\", \"The Munsif Daily\" and \"Inqilab\" are published and distributed in Bangalore, Malegaon, Mysore, Hyderabad, and Mumbai (see List of newspapers in India).\n\nOutside South Asia, it is spoken by large numbers of migrant South Asian workers in the major urban centres of the Persian Gulf countries. Urdu is also spoken by large numbers of immigrants and their children in the major urban centres of the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Germany, Norway, and Australia. Along with Arabic, Urdu is among the immigrant languages with the most speakers in Catalonia.\n\nReligious and social atmospheres in early nineteenth century India played a significant role in the development of the Urdu register. In addition to Islam, India was characterized by a number of other religions that represented different spiritual outlooks. Hindi became the distinct register spoken by those who sought to construct a Hindu identity in the face of colonial rule. As Hindi separated from Hindustani to create a distinct spiritual identity, Urdu was employed to create a definitive Islamic identity for the Muslim population in India.\n\nAs Urdu and Hindi became means of religious and social construction for Muslims and Hindus respectively, each register developed its own script. According to Islamic tradition, Arabic, the language spoken by the prophet Muhammad and uttered in the revelation of the Qur'an, holds spiritual significance and power. Because Urdu was intentioned as means of unification for Muslims in Northern India and later Pakistan, it adopted an Arabic script.\nUrdu continued its role in developing a Muslim identity as the Islamic Republic of Pakistan was established with the intent to construct a homeland for Islamic believers. Several languages and dialects spoken throughout the regions of Pakistan produced an imminent need for a uniting language. Because Urdu was the symbol of Islamic identity in Northern India, it was selected as the national language for Pakistan. While Urdu and Islam together played important roles in developing the national identity of Pakistan, disputes in the 1950s (particularly those in East Pakistan), challenged the necessity for Urdu as a national symbol and its practicality as the lingua franca. The significance of Urdu as a national symbol was downplayed by these disputes when English and Bengali were also accepted as official languages in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).\n\nUrdu is the national and one of the two official languages of Pakistan, along with English, and is spoken and understood throughout the country, whereas the state-by-state languages (languages spoken throughout various regions) are the provincial languages. Only 7.57% of Pakistanis have Urdu as their first language, but Urdu is mostly understood and spoken all over Pakistan as a second or third language. It is used in education, literature, office and court business. It holds in itself a repository of the cultural and social heritage of the country. Although English is used in most elite circles, and Punjabi has a plurality of native speakers, Urdu is the lingua franca and national language of Pakistan. In practice English is used instead of Urdu in the higher echelons of government.\n\nUrdu is also one of the officially recognized languages in India and the official language of Jammu and Kashmir, one of the two official languages of Telangana and also has the status of \"additional official language\" in the Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and the national capital, New Delhi.\n\nIn Jammu and Kashmir, section 145 of the Kashmir Constitution provides: \"The official language of the State shall be Urdu but the English language shall unless the Legislature by law otherwise provides, continue to be used for all the official purposes of the State for which it was being used immediately before the commencement of the Constitution.\"\n\nUrdu has a few recognised dialects, including Dakhni, Rekhta, and Modern Vernacular Urdu (based on the Khariboli dialect of the Delhi region). Dakhni (also known as Dakani, Deccani, Desia, Mirgan) is spoken in Deccan region of southern India. It is distinct by its mixture of vocabulary from Marathi and Konkani, as well as some vocabulary from Arabic, Persian and Chagatai that are not found in the standard dialect of Urdu. Dakhini is widely spoken in all parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Urdu is read and written as in other parts of India. A number of daily newspapers and several monthly magazines in Urdu are published in these states.\nIn terms of pronunciation, the easiest way to recognize native speakers is by their pronunciation of the letter () as ().\n\nMany bilingual or multi-lingual Urdu speakers, being familiar with both Urdu and English, display code-switching (referred to as \"Urdish\") in certain localities and between certain social groups.\n\nOn 14 August 2015, the Government of Pakistan launched the \"Ilm\" Pakistan movement, with a uniform curriculum in Urdish. Ahsan Iqbal, Federal Minister of Pakistan, said, \"Now the government is working on a new curriculum to provide a new medium to the students which will be the combination of both Urdu and English and will name it Urdish.\"\n\nStandard Urdu is often contrasted with Standard Hindi. Apart from religious associations, the differences are largely restricted to the standard forms: Standard Urdu is conventionally written in the Nastaliq style of the Persian alphabet and relies heavily on Persian and Arabic as a source for technical and literary vocabulary, whereas Standard Hindi is conventionally written in Devanāgarī and draws on Sanskrit. However, both have large numbers of Arabic, Persian and Sanskrit words, and most linguists consider them to be two standardised forms of the same language, and consider the differences to be sociolinguistic, though a few classify them separately. Old Urdu dictionaries also contain most of the Sanskrit words now present in Hindi. Mutual intelligibility decreases in literary and specialized contexts that rely on educated vocabulary. Further, it is quite easy in a longer conversation to distinguish differences in vocabulary and pronunciation of some Urdu phonemes. As a result of religious nationalism since the partition of British India and continued communal tensions, native speakers of both Hindi and Urdu frequently assert them to be distinct languages, despite the numerous similarities between the two in a colloquial setting.\n\nThe barrier created between Hindi and Urdu is eroding: Hindi speakers are comfortable with using Persian-Arabic borrowed words and Urdu speakers are also comfortable with using Sanskrit terminology.\n\n\n\nThe author of \"Farhang-i-Aasifiya\", considered to be the most reliable and comprehensive Urdu dictionary, stated that Urdu vocabulary has a 75% core of Prakrit and Sanskrit-derived words, with approximately 25% of its vocabulary being Persian and Arabic loanwords. However, a paper published in the \"Journal of Pakistan Vision\" places Urdu vocabulary as being composed of 29.9% of Arabic loanwords and 21.7% Persian loanwords. Many of the words of Arabic origin have been adopted through Persian, and have different pronunciations and nuances of meaning and usage than they do in Arabic. There are also a smaller number of borrowings from Chagatai, and Portuguese.\n\nUrdu in its less formalised register has been referred to as a \"\" (, ), meaning \"rough mixture\". The more formal register of Urdu is sometimes referred to as ( ), the \"Language of the Exalted Camp\", referring to the Imperial army.\n\nThe etymology of the word used in the Urdu language for the most part decides how polite or refined one's speech is. For example, Urdu speakers would distinguish between \"pānī\" and \"āb\", both meaning \"water\"; the former is used colloquially and has older Indic origins, whereas the latter is used formally and poetically, being of Persian origin.\n\nIf a word is of Persian or Arabic origin, the level of speech is considered to be more formal and grand. Similarly, if Persian or Arabic grammar constructs, such as the izafat, are used in Urdu, the level of speech is also considered more formal and grand. If a word is inherited from Sanskrit, the level of speech is considered more colloquial and personal. This distinction is similar to the division in English between words of Latin, French and Old English origins.\n\nUrdu is written right-to left in an extension of the Persian alphabet, which is itself an extension of the Arabic alphabet. Urdu is associated with the Nastaʿlīq style of Persian calligraphy, whereas Arabic is generally written in the \"Naskh\" or \"Ruq'ah\" styles. \"Nasta’liq\" is notoriously difficult to typeset, so Urdu newspapers were hand-written by masters of calligraphy, known as \"kātib\" or \"khush-nawīs\", until the late 1980s. One handwritten Urdu newspaper, The Musalman, is still published daily in Chennai.\n\nA highly Persianized and technical form of Urdu was the \"lingua franca\" of the law courts of the British administration in Bengal, Bihar, and the North-West Provinces & Oudh. Until the late 19th century, all proceedings and court transactions in this register of Urdu were written officially in the Persian script. In 1880, Sir Ashley Eden, the Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal abolished the use of the Persian alphabet in the law courts of Bengal and Bihar and ordered the exclusive use of Kaithi, a popular script used for both Urdu and Hindi. Kaithi's association with Urdu and Hindi was ultimately eliminated by the political contest between these languages and their scripts, in which the Persian script was definitively linked to Urdu.\n\nMore recently in India, Urdu speakers have adopted Devanagari for publishing Urdu periodicals and have innovated new strategies to mark Urdu in Devanagari as distinct from Hindi in Devanagari. Such publishers have introduced new orthographic features into Devanagari for the purpose of representing the Perso-Arabic etymology of Urdu words. One example is the use of अ (Devanagari \"a\") with vowel signs to mimic contexts of (\"‘ain\"), in violation of Hindi orthographic rules. For Urdu publishers, the use of Devanagari gives them a greater audience, whereas the orthographic changes help them preserve a distinct identity of Urdu.\n\nUrdu has become a literary language only in recent centuries, as Persian was formerly the idiom of choice for the Muslim courts of North India. However, despite its relatively late development, Urdu literature boasts of some world-recognised artists and a considerable corpus.\n\nUrdu afsana is a kind of Urdu prose in which many experiments have been done by short story writers from Munshi Prem Chand, Sadat Hasan Manto, Rajindra Singh Bedi, Ismat Chughtai, Krishan Chandra to Naeem Baig. and Rahman Abbas.\n\nUrdu holds the largest collection of works on Islamic literature and Sharia. These include translations and interpretation of the Qur'an as well as commentary on \"Hadith\", \"Fiqh\", history, and Sufism. A great number of classical texts from Arabic and Persian have also been translated into Urdu. Relatively inexpensive publishing, combined with the use of Urdu as a lingua franca among Muslims of South Asia, has meant that Islam-related works in Urdu far outnumber such works in any other South Asian language. Popular Islamic books are also written in Urdu.\n\nA treatise on astrology was penned in Urdu by Pandit Roop Chand Joshi in the twentieth century. The book, known as Lal Kitab, is widely popular in North India among astrologers.\n\nSecular prose includes all categories of widely known fiction and non-fiction work, separable into genres. The \"dāstān\", or tale, a traditional story that may have many characters and complex plotting. This has now fallen into disuse.\n\nThe \"afsāna\" or short story is probably the best-known genre of Urdu fiction. The best-known \"afsāna\" writers, or \"afsāna nigār\", in Urdu are Munshi Premchand, Saadat Hasan Manto, Rajinder Singh Bedi, Krishan Chander, Qurratulain Hyder (Qurat-ul-Ain Haider), Ismat Chughtai, Ghulam Abbas, Rashid ul Khairi and Ahmad Nadeem Qasimi till Rahman Abbas. Towards the end of last century Paigham Afaqui's novel Makaan appeared with a reviving force for Urdu novel resulting into writing of novels getting a boost in Urdu literature and a number of writers like Ghazanfer, Abdus Samad, Sarwat Khan and Musharraf Alam Zauqi have taken the move forward. However, Rahman Abbas has emerged as the most influential Urdu Novelist in the 21st century and he has raised the art of story-telling to a new level.\n\nMunshi Premchand, became known as a pioneer in the \"afsāna\", though some contend that his were not technically the first as Sir Ross Masood had already written many short stories in Urdu. Novels form a genre of their own, in the tradition of the English novel. Other genres include \"saférnāma\" (travel story), \"mazmoon\" (essay), \"sarguzisht\" (account/narrative), \"inshaeya\" (satirical essay), \"murasela\" (editorial), and \"khud navvisht\" (autobiography).\n\nUrdu has been one of the premier languages of poetry in South Asia for two centuries, and has developed a rich tradition in a variety of poetic genres. The Ghazal in Urdu represents the most popular form of subjective music and poetry, whereas the Nazm exemplifies the objective kind, often reserved for narrative, descriptive, didactic or satirical purposes. Under the broad head of the Nazm we may also include the classical forms of poems known by specific names such as Masnavi (a long narrative poem in rhyming couplets on any theme: romantic, religious, or didactic), Marsia (an elegy traditionally meant to commemorate the martyrdom of Husayn ibn Ali, grandson of Muhammad, and his comrades of the Karbala fame), or Qasida (a panegyric written in praise of a king or a nobleman), for all these poems have a single presiding subject, logically developed and concluded. However, these poetic species have an old world aura about their subject and style, and are different from the modern Nazm, supposed to have come into vogue in the later part of the nineteenth century. Probably the most widely recited, and memorised genre of contemporary Urdu poetry is nāt—panegyric poetry written in praise of Muhammad. \"Nāt\" can be of any formal category, but is most commonly in the \"ghazal\" form. The language used in Urdu \"nāt\" ranges from the intensely colloquial to a highly persified formal language. The great early 20th century scholar Ala Hazrat, Ahmed Raza Khan Barelvi, who wrote many of the most well known \"nāt\"s in Urdu (the collection of his poetic work is Hadaiq-e-Baqhshish), epitomised this range in a \"ghazal\" of nine stanzas (\"bayt\") in which every stanza contains half a line each of Arabic, Persian, formal Urdu, and colloquial Hindi.\n\nAnother important genre of Urdu prose are the poems commemorating the martyrdom of Husayn ibn Ali at the Battle of Karbala, called noha () and marsia. Anees and Dabeer are famous in this regard.\n\n (, verse, couplets): It consists of two hemistiches (lines) called (); first hemistich (line) is called (') and the second is called () ('). Each verse embodies a single thought or subject (singular) \"\".\n\nIn the Urdu poetic tradition, most poets use a pen name called the . This can be either a part of a poet's given name or something else adopted as an identity. The traditional convention in identifying Urdu poets is to mention the at the end of the name. Thus Ghalib, whose official name and title was Mirza Asadullah Beg Khan, is referred to formally as Mirza Asadullah Khan Ghalib, or in common parlance as just Mirza Ghalib. Because the can be a part of their actual name, some poets end up having that part of their name repeated, such as Faiz Ahmad Faiz.\n\nThe word is derived from Arabic, meaning \"ending\". This is because in the ghazal form, the poet would usually incorporate his or her pen name into the final couplet () of each poem as a type of \"signature\".\n\nThis is Ghalib's famous couplet in which he compares himself to his great predecessor, the master poet Mir:\n\nThe following is a sample text in Urdu, of the Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (by the United Nations):\n\nNote: \"*('s) represents a possessive case that, when written, is preceded by the possessor and followed by the possessed, unlike the English \"of\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199145", "title": "Visual art of the United States", "text": "Visual art of the United States\n\nVisual art of the United States or American art is visual art made in the United States or by U.S. artists. Before colonization there were many flourishing traditions of Native American art, and where the Spanish colonized Spanish Colonial architecture and the accompanying styles in other media were quickly in place. Early colonial art on the East Coast initially relied on artists from Europe, with John White (1540-c. 1593) the earliest example. In the late 18th and early 19th centuries, artists primarily painted portraits, and some landscapes in a style based mainly on English painting. Furniture-makers imitating English styles and similar craftsmen were also established in the major cities, but in the English colonies, locally made pottery remained resolutely utilitarian until the 19th century, with fancy products imported.\n\nBut in the later 18th century two U.S. artists, Benjamin West and John Singleton Copley, became the most successful painters in London of history painting, then regarded as the highest form of art, giving the first sign of an emerging force in Western art. American artists who remained at home became increasingly skilled, although there was little awareness of them in Europe. In the early 19th century the infrastructure to train artists began to be established, and from 1820 the Hudson River School began to produce Romantic landscape painting that was original and matched the huge scale of U.S. landscapes. The American Revolution produced a demand for patriotic art, especially history painting, while other artists recorded the frontier country. A parallel development taking shape in rural U.S. was the American craft movement, which began as a reaction to the industrial revolution.\n\nAfter 1850 Academic art in the European style flourished, and as richer Americans became very wealthy, the flow of European art, new and old, to the US began; this has continued ever since. Museums began to be opened to display much of this. Developments in modern art in Europe came to the U.S. from exhibitions in New York City such as the Armory Show in 1913. After World War II, New York replaced Paris as the center of the art world. Since then many U.S. movements have shaped Modern and Postmodern art. Art in the United States today covers a huge range of styles.\n\nOne of the first painters to visit British America was John White (c. 1540 – c. 1606), who made important watercolor records of Native American life on the Eastern seaboard (now British Museum). White first visited America as the artist and map-maker for an expedition of exploration, and in the early years of the Colonial period most other artists trained in Western styles were officers in the army and navy, whose training included sketching landscapes. Eventually the English settlements grew large enough to support professional artists, mostly portrait-painters, often largely self-taught. Among the earliest was John Smybert (1688–1751), a trained artist from London who emigrated in 1728 intending to be a professor of fine art, but instead became a portrait painter and printseller in Boston. His friend Peter Pelham was a painter and printmaker. Both needed other sources of income and had shops. Meanwhile, the Spanish territories later to be American could see mostly religious art in the late Baroque style, mostly by native artists, and Native American cultures continued to produce art in their various traditions.\n\nAfter the Declaration of Independence in 1776, which marked the official beginning of the American national identity, the new nation needed a history, and part of that history would be expressed visually. Most of early American art (from the late 18th century through the early 19th century) consists of history painting and especially portraits. As in Colonial America, many of the painters who specialized in portraits were essentially self-taught; notable among them are Joseph Badger, John Brewster, Jr., and William Jennys. The young nation's artists generally emulated the style of British art, which they knew through prints and the paintings of English-trained immigrants such as John Smibert (1688–1751) and John Wollaston (active 1742–75).\n\nRobert Feke (1707–52), an untrained painter of the colonial period, achieved a sophisticated style based on Smibert's example. Charles Willson Peale, who gained much of his earliest art training by studying Smibert's copies of European paintings, painted portraits of many of the important figures of the American Revolution. Peale's younger brother James Peale and four of Peale's sons—Raphaelle Peale, Rembrandt Peale, Rubens Peale and Titian Peale—were also artists. Painters such as Gilbert Stuart made portraits of the newly elected government officials, which became iconic after being reproduced on various U.S. Postage stamps of the 19th century and early 20th century.\n\nJohn Singleton Copley painted emblematic portraits for the increasingly prosperous merchant class, including a portrait of \"Paul Revere\" (ca. 1768–70). The original version of his most famous painting, \"Watson and the Shark\" (1778), is in the collection of The National Gallery of Art while there is another version in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and a third version in the Detroit Institute of Arts. Benjamin West painted portraits as well as history paintings of the French and Indian War. West also worked in London where many American artists studied under him, including Washington Allston, Ralph Earl, James Earl, Samuel Morse, Charles Willson Peale, Rembrandt Peale, Gilbert Stuart, John Trumbull, Mather Brown, Edward Savage and Thomas Sully. John Trumbull painted large battle scenes of the Revolutionary War.\nWhen landscape was painted it was most often done to show how much property a subject owned, or as a picturesque background for a portrait.\n\nThe first well-known U.S. school of painting—the Hudson River School—appeared in 1820. Thomas Cole pioneered the movement which included Albert Bierstadt, Frederic Edwin Church, Thomas Doughty and several others. As with music and literature, this development was delayed until artists perceived that the New World offered subjects unique to itself; in this case the westward expansion of settlement brought the transcendent beauty of frontier landscapes to painters' attention.\n\nThe Hudson River painters' directness and simplicity of vision influenced and inspired such later artists as John Kensett and the \"Luminists\"; as well as George Inness and the \"tonalists\" (which included Albert Pinkham Ryder and Ralph Blakelock among others), and Winslow Homer (1836–1910), who depicted the rural U.S.—the sea, the mountains, and the people who lived near them.\n\nThe Hudson River School landscape painter Robert S. Duncanson was one of the first important African American painters. John James Audubon, an ornothologist whose paintings documented birds, was one of the most important naturalist artists in the early U.S. His major work, a set of colored prints entitled \"The Birds of America\" (1827–1839), is considered one of the finest ornithological works ever completed. Edward Hicks was a U.S. folk painter and distinguished minister of the Society of Friends. He became a Quaker icon because of his paintings.\n\nPaintings of the Great West, many of which emphasized the sheer size of the land and the cultures of the native people living on it, became a distinct genre as well. George Catlin depicted the West and its people as honestly as possible. George Caleb Bingham, and later Frederick Remington, Charles M. Russell, the photographer Edward S. Curtis, and others recorded the U.S. Western heritage and the Old American West through their art.\n\nHistory painting was a less popular genre in U.S. art during the 19th century, although \"Washington Crossing the Delaware\", painted by the German-born Emanuel Leutze, is among the best-known U.S. paintings. The historical and military paintings of William B. T. Trego were widely published after his death (according to Edwin A. Peeples, \"There is probably not an American History book which doesn't have (a) Trego picture in it\").\n\nPortrait painters in the U.S. in the 19th century included untrained limners such as Ammi Phillips, and painters schooled in the European tradition, such as Thomas Sully and G.P.A. Healy. Middle-class city life found its painter in Thomas Eakins (1844–1916), an uncompromising realist whose unflinching honesty undercut the genteel preference for romantic sentimentalism. As a result, he was not notably successful in his lifetime, although he has since been recognized as one of the most significant U.S. artists. One of his students was Henry Ossawa Tanner, the first African-American painter to achieve international acclaim.\n\nA trompe-l'oeil style of still-life painting, originating mainly in Philadelphia, included Raphaelle Peale (one of several artists of the Peale family), William Michael Harnett, and John F. Peto.\n\nThe most successful U.S. sculptor of his era, Hiram Powers, left the U.S. in his early thirties to spend the rest of his life in Europe, where he adopted a conventional style for his idealized female nudes such as \"Eve Tempted\". Several important painters who are considered American spent much of their lives in Europe, notably Mary Cassatt, James McNeill Whistler, and John Singer Sargent, all of whom were influenced by French Impressionism. Theodore Robinson visited France in 1887, befriended Monet, and became one of the first U.S. painters to adopt the new technique. In the last decades of the century American Impressionism, as practiced by artists such as Childe Hassam and Frank W. Benson, became a popular style.\n\nControversy soon became a way of life for American artists. In fact, much of American painting and sculpture since 1900 has been a series of revolts against tradition. \"To hell with the artistic values,\" announced Robert Henri (1865–1929). He was the leader of what critics called the Ashcan school of painting, after the group's portrayals of the squalid aspects of city life.\n\nAmerican realism became the new direction for American visual artists at the turn of the 20th century. The Ashcan painters George Bellows, Everett Shinn, George Benjamin Luks, William Glackens, and John Sloan were among those who developed socially conscious imagery in their works. The photographer Alfred Stieglitz (1864–1946) led the Photo-Secession movement, which created pathways for photography as an emerging art form.\n\nSoon the Ashcan school artists gave way to modernists arriving from Europe—the cubists and abstract painters promoted by Stieglitz at his 291 Gallery in New York City. John Marin, Marsden Hartley, Alfred Henry Maurer, Arthur B. Carles, Arthur Dove, Henrietta Shore, Stuart Davis, Wilhelmina Weber, Stanton MacDonald-Wright, Morgan Russell, Patrick Henry Bruce, Andrew Dasburg, Georgia O'Keeffe, and Gerald Murphy were some important early American modernist painters. Early modernist sculptors in America include William Zorach, Elie Nadelman, and Paul Manship. Florine Stettheimer developed an extremely personal faux-naif style.\n\nAfter World War I many American artists rejected the modern trends emanating from the Armory Show and European influences such as those from the School of Paris. Instead they chose to adopt various—in some cases academic—styles of realism in depicting American urban and rural scenes. Grant Wood, Reginald Marsh, Guy Pène du Bois, and Charles Sheeler exemplify the realist tendency in different ways. Sheeler and the modernists Charles Demuth and Ralston Crawford were referred to as Precisionists for their sharply defined renderings of machines and architectural forms. Edward Hopper, who studied under Henri, developed an individual style of realism by concentrating on light and form, and avoiding overt social content.\n\nFollowing the first World War, the completion of the Santa Fe Railroad enabled American settlers to travel across the west, as far as the California coast. New artists' colonies started growing up around Santa Fe and Taos, the artists' primary subject matter being the native people and landscapes of the Southwest.\n\nImages of the Southwest became a popular form of advertising, used most significantly by the Santa Fe Railroad to entice settlers to come west and enjoy the \"unsullied landscapes.\" Walter Ufer, Bert Geer Phillips, E. Irving Couse, William Henry Jackson, Marsden Hartley, Andrew Dasburg, and Georgia O'Keeffe were some of the more prolific artists of the Southwest. Georgia O'Keeffe, who was born in the late 19th century, became known for her paintings featuring flowers, bones, and landscapes of New Mexico as seen in \"Ram's Head White Hollyhock and Little Hills\". O'Keeffe visited the Southwest in 1929 and moved there permanently in 1949; she lived and painted there until she died in 1986.\n\nThe Harlem Renaissance was another significant development in American art. In the 1920s and 30s a new generation of educated and politically astute African-American men and women emerged who sponsored literary societies and art and industrial exhibitions to combat racist stereotypes. The movement, which showcased the range of talents within African-American communities, included artists from across America, but was centered in Harlem. The work of the Harlem painter and graphic artist Aaron Douglas and the photographer James VanDerZee became emblematic of the movement. Artists associated with the Harlem Renaissance include Romare Bearden, Jacob Lawrence, Charles Alston, Augusta Savage, Archibald Motley, Lois Mailou Jones, Palmer Hayden and Sargent Johnson.\n\nWhen the Great Depression hit, president Roosevelt's New Deal created several public arts programs. The purpose of the programs was to give work to artists and decorate public buildings, usually with a national theme. The first of these projects, the Public Works of Art Project (PWAP), was created after successful lobbying by the unemployed artists of the Artists Union. The PWAP lasted less than one year, and produced nearly 15,000 works of art. It was followed by the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration (FAP/WPA) in 1935, which funded some of the most well-known American artists.\n\nThe style of much of the public art commissioned by the WPA was influenced by the work of Diego Rivera and other artists of the contemporary Mexican muralism movement. Several separate and related movements began and developed during the Great Depression including American scene painting, Regionalism, and Social Realism. Thomas Hart Benton, John Steuart Curry, Grant Wood, Maxine Albro, Ben Shahn, Joseph Stella, Reginald Marsh, Isaac Soyer, Raphael Soyer, Spencer Baird Nichols and Jack Levine were some of the best-known artists.\n\nNot all of the artists who emerged in the years between the wars were Regionalists or Social Realists; Milton Avery's paintings, often nearly abstract, had a significant influence on several of the younger artists who would soon become known as Abstract Expressionists. Joseph Cornell, inspired by Surrealism, created boxed assemblages incorporating found objects and collage.\n\nIn the years after World War II, a group of New York artists formed the first American movement to exert major influence internationally: abstract expressionism.\nThis term, which had first been used in 1919 in Berlin, was used again in 1946 by Robert Coates in \"The New York Times\", and was taken up by the two major art critics of that time, Harold Rosenberg and Clement Greenberg. It has always been criticized as too large and paradoxical, yet the common definition implies the use of abstract art to express feelings, emotions, what is within the artist, and not what stands without.\n\nThe first generation of abstract expressionists included Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Mark Rothko, Franz Kline, Arshile Gorky, Robert Motherwell, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb, Phillip Guston, Ad Reinhardt, James Brooks, Richard Pousette-Dart, William Baziotes, Mark Tobey, Bradley Walker Tomlin, Theodoros Stamos, Jack Tworkov, Wilhelmina Weber Furlong, David Smith, and Hans Hofmann, among others. Milton Avery, Lee Krasner, Louise Bourgeois, Alexander Calder, Tony Smith, Morris Graves and others were also related, important and influential artists during that period.\n\nThough the numerous artists encompassed by this label had widely different styles, contemporary critics found several common points between them. Gorky, Pollock, de Kooning, Kline, Hofmann, Motherwell, Gottlieb, Rothko, Still, Guston, and others were an American painters associated with the abstract expressionist movement and in most cases Action painting (as seen in Kline's \"Painting Number 2\", 1954); as part of the New York School in the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nMany first generation abstract expressionists were influenced both by the Cubists' works (which they knew from photographs in art reviews and by seeing the works at the 291 Gallery or the Armory Show), by the European Surrealists, and by Pablo Picasso, Joan Miró and Henri Matisse as well as the Americans Milton Avery, John D. Graham, and Hans Hofmann. Most of them abandoned formal composition and representation of real objects. Often the abstract expressionists decided to try instinctual, intuitive, spontaneous arrangements of space, line, shape and color. Abstract Expressionism can be characterized by two major elements: the large size of the canvases used (partially inspired by Mexican frescoes and the works they made for the WPA in the 1930s), and the strong and unusual use of brushstrokes and experimental paint application with a new understanding of process.\n\nThe emphasis and intensification of color and large open expanses of surface were two of the principles applied to the movement called Color Field painting. Ad Reinhardt, Adolph Gottlieb, Mark Rothko, Clyfford Still and Barnett Newman were categorized as such. Another movement was called Action Painting, characterized by spontaneous reaction, powerful brushstrokes, dripped and splashed paint and the strong physical movements used in the production of a painting. Jackson Pollock is an example of an Action Painter: his \"creative process\", incorporating thrown and dripped paint from a stick or poured directly from the can, revolutionized painting methods.\n\nWillem de Kooning famously said about Pollock \"he broke the ice for the rest of us.\" Ironically Pollock's large repetitious expanses of linear fields are characteristic of Color Field painting as well, as art critic Michael Fried wrote in his essay for the catalog of \"Three American painters: Kenneth Noland, Jules Olitski, Frank Stella\" at the Fogg Art Museum in 1965.\nDespite the disagreements between art critics, Abstract Expressionism marks a turning-point in the history of American art: the 1940s and 1950s saw international attention shift from European (Parisian) art, to American (New York) art.\n\nColor field painting continued as a movement in the 1960s, as Morris Louis, Jules Olitski, Kenneth Noland, Gene Davis, Helen Frankenthaler, and others sought to make paintings which would eliminate superfluous rhetoric with repetition, stripes and large, flat areas of color.\n\nDuring the 1950s abstract painting in America evolved into movements such as Neo-Dada, Post painterly abstraction, Op Art, hard-edge painting, Minimal art, Shaped canvas painting, Lyrical Abstraction, and the continuation of Abstract expressionism. As a response to the tendency toward abstraction imagery emerged through various new movements like Pop Art, the Bay Area Figurative Movement and later in the 1970s Neo-expressionism.\n\nLyrical Abstraction along with the Fluxus movement and Postminimalism (a term first coined by Robert Pincus-Witten in the pages of \"Artforum\" in 1969) sought to expand the boundaries of abstract painting and Minimalism by focusing on process, new materials and new ways of expression. Postminimalism often incorporating industrial materials, raw materials, fabrications, found objects, installation, serial repetition, and often with references to Dada and Surrealism is best exemplified in the sculptures of Eva Hesse.\n\nLyrical Abstraction, Conceptual Art, Postminimalism, Earth Art, Video, Performance art, Installation art, along with the continuation of Fluxus, Abstract Expressionism, Color Field Painting, Hard-edge painting, Minimal Art, Op art, Pop Art, Photorealism and New Realism extended the boundaries of Contemporary Art in the mid-1960s through the 1970s.\n\nLyrical Abstraction shares similarities with Color Field Painting and Abstract Expressionism, especially in the freewheeling usage of paint texture and surface. Direct drawing, calligraphic use of line, the effects of brushed, splattered, stained, squeegeed, poured, and splashed paint superficially resemble the effects seen in Abstract Expressionism and Color Field Painting. However the styles are markedly different.\n\nDuring the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s painters as powerful and influential as Adolph Gottlieb, Phillip Guston, Lee Krasner, Cy Twombly, Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Richard Diebenkorn, Josef Albers, Elmer Bischoff, Agnes Martin, Al Held, Sam Francis, Kenneth Noland, Jules Olitski, Ellsworth Kelly, Morris Louis, Gene Davis, Frank Stella, Joan Mitchell, Friedel Dzubas, Paul Jenkins and younger artists like Brice Marden, Robert Mangold, Sam Gilliam, Sean Scully, Elizabeth Murray, Walter Darby Bannard, Larry Zox, Ronnie Landfield, Ronald Davis, Dan Christensen, Susan Rothenberg, Ross Bleckner, Richard Tuttle, Julian Schnabel, Peter Halley, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Eric Fischl and dozens of others produced vital and influential paintings.\n\nMembers of the next artistic generation favored a different form of abstraction: works of mixed media. Among them were Robert Rauschenberg (1925–2008) and Jasper Johns (1930- ), who used photos, newsprint, and discarded objects in their compositions. Pop artists, such as Andy Warhol (1928–1987), Larry Rivers (1923–2002), and Roy Lichtenstein (1923–1997), reproduced, with satiric care, everyday objects and images of American popular culture—Coca-Cola bottles, soup cans, comic strips.\n\nRealism has also been continually popular in the United States, despite modernism's impact; the realist tendency is evident in the city scenes of Edward Hopper, the rural imagery of Andrew Wyeth, and the illustrations of Norman Rockwell. In certain places Abstract Expressionism never caught on; for example, in Chicago, the dominant art style was grotesque, symbolic realism, as exemplified by the Chicago Imagists Cosmo Campoli (1923–1997), Jim Nutt (1938- ), Ed Paschke (1939–2004), and Nancy Spero (1926–2009).\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, contemporary art in the United States in general continues in several contiguous modes, characterized by the idea of pluralism. The \"crisis\" in painting and current art and current art criticism today is brought about by pluralism. There is no consensus, nor need there be, as to a representative style of the age. There is an \"anything goes\" attitude that prevails; an \"everything going on\" syndrome; with no firm and clear direction and yet with every lane on the artistic superhighway filled to capacity. Consequently, magnificent and important works of art continue to be made in the United States albeit in a wide variety of styles and aesthetic temperaments, the marketplace being left to judge merit.\n\nHard-edge painting, Geometric abstraction, Appropriation, Hyperrealism, Photorealism, Expressionism, Minimalism, Lyrical Abstraction, Pop art, Op art, Abstract Expressionism, Color Field painting, Monochrome painting, Neo-expressionism, Collage, Intermedia painting, Assemblage painting, Digital painting, Postmodern painting, Neo-Dada painting, Shaped canvas painting, environmental mural painting, Graffiti, traditional figure painting, Landscape painting, Portrait painting, are a few continuing and current directions in painting at the beginning of the 21st century.\n\nA few American artists of note include: Ansel Adams, John James Audubon, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Thomas Hart Benton, Albert Bierstadt, Alexander Calder, Mary Cassatt, Frederic Edwin Church, Chuck Close, Thomas Cole, Robert Crumb, Edward S. Curtis, Richard Diebenkorn, Thomas Eakins, Jules Feiffer, Lyonel Feininger, Helen Frankenthaler, Arshile Gorky, Keith Haring, Marsden Hartley, Al Hirschfeld, Hans Hofmann, Winslow Homer, Edward Hopper, Jasper Johns, Georgia O'Keeffe, Jack Kirby, Franz Kline, Willem de Kooning, Lee Krasner, Dorothea Lange, Roy Lichtenstein, Morris Louis, John Marin, Agnes Martin, Grandma Moses, Nampeyo, Jackson Pollock, Man Ray, Robert Rauschenberg, Frederic Remington, Norman Rockwell, Mark Rothko, Albert Pinkham Ryder, John Singer Sargent, Cindy Sherman, David Smith, Frank Stella, Gilbert Stuart, Louis Comfort Tiffany, Cy Twombly, Andy Warhol, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Andrew Wyeth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1199829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1199829", "title": "Áo dài", "text": "Áo dài\n\nThe áo dài is a Vietnamese traditional garment, worn by both sexes but now most commonly worn by women. In its current form, it is a tight-fitting silk tunic worn over trousers. \"Áo\" translates as shirt. \"Dài\" means \"long\".\n\nThe word \"ao dai\" was originally applied to the outfit worn at the court of the Nguyễn Lords at Huế in the 18th century. This outfit evolved into the \"áo ngũ thân\", a five-paneled aristocratic gown worn in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Inspired by Paris fashions, Nguyễn Cát Tường and other artists associated with Hanoi University redesigned the \"ngũ thân\" as a modern dress in the 1920s and 1930s. The updated look was promoted by the artists and magazines of Tự Lực văn đoàn (Self-Reliant Literary Group) as a national costume for the modern era. In the 1950s, Saigon designers tightened the fit to produce the version worn by Vietnamese women today. The dress was extremely popular in South Vietnam in the 1960s and early 1970s. On Tết and other occasions, Vietnamese men may wear an \"áo gấm\" (brocade robe), a version of the ao dai made of thicker fabric.\n\nAcademic commentary on the ao dai emphasizes the way the dress ties feminine beauty to Vietnamese nationalism, especially in the form of \"Miss Ao Dai\" pageants, popular both among overseas Vietnamese and in Vietnam itself. \"Ao dai\" is one of the few Vietnamese words that appear in English-language dictionaries.\n\n\"Tà sau\": back flap\n\"Tà trước\": front flap\nThe ao dai can be worn with a \"nón lá\" (conical leaf hat), a style associated with Huế. On weddings and other formal occasions, a circular headgear called a \"khăn đóng\" is worn.\n\nFor centuries, peasant women typically wore a halter top () underneath a blouse or overcoat, alongside a skirt (\"váy\"). Aristocrats, on the other hand, favored a cross-collared robe called \"áo giao lĩnh\", which bore resemblance to the Chinese Hanfu. In 1744, Lord Nguyễn Phúc Khoát of Huế decreed that both men and women at his court wear trousers and a gown with buttons down the front. Writer Lê Quý Đôn described the newfangled outfit as an \"áo dài\" (long garment). The members of the southern court were thus distinguished from the courtiers of the Trịnh Lords in Hanoi, who wore \"áo giao lĩnh\" with long skirts.\n\nChinese Ming style clothing was forced on Vietnamese people by the Nguyễn dynasty. The tunics and trouser clothing of the Han Chinese on the Ming and Qing tradition was worn by the Vietnamese. However, Han-Chinese clothing is assembled by several pieces of clothing including both pants and skirts called Qun (裙) or chang (裳) which is a part of Hanfu garments throughout the history of Han Chinese clothing. The Ao Dai was created when tucks which were close fitting and compact were added in the 1920s to this Chinese style. The Chinese clothing in the form of trousers and tunic were mandated by the Vietnamese Nguyen government. It was up to the 1920s in Vietnam's north area in isolated hamlets where skirts were worn. The Chinese Ming dynasty, Tang dynasty, and Han dynasty clothing was referred to be adopted by Vietnamese military and bureaucrats by the Nguyen Lord Nguyễn Phúc Khoát (Nguyen The Tong). Chinese clothing started influencing Vietnamese dress in the Ly dynasty. The current Ao Dai was introduced by the Nguyen Lords.\n\nThe \"áo ngũ thân\" had two flaps sewn together in the back, two flaps sewn together in the front, and a \"baby flap\" hidden underneath the main front flap. The gown appeared to have two-flaps with slits on both sides, features preserved in the later ao dai. Compared to a modern ao dai, the front and back flaps were much broader and the fit looser and much shorter. It had a high collar and was buttoned in the same fashion as a modern ao dai. Women could wear the dress with the top few buttons undone, revealing a glimpse of their \"yếm\" underneath.\n\nHuế's Đồng Khánh Girl's High School, which opened in 1917, was widely praised for the ao dai uniform worn by its students. The first modernized ao dai appeared at a Paris fashion show in 1921. In 1930, Hanoi artist Cát Tường, also known as Le Mur, designed a dress inspired by the \"áo ngũ thân\" and by Paris fashions. It reached to the floor and fit the curves of the body by using darts and a nipped-in waist. When fabric became inexpensive, the rationale for multiple layers and thick flaps disappeared. Modern textile manufacture allows for wider panels, eliminating the need to sew narrow panels together. The \"áo dài Le Mur\", or \"trendy\" ao dai, created a sensation when model Nguyễn Thị Hậu wore it for a feature published by the newspaper \"Today\" in January 1935. The style was promoted by the artists of Tự Lực văn đoàn (\"Self-Reliant Literary Group\") as a national costume for the modern era. The painter Lê Phô introduced several popular styles of ao dai beginning in 1934. Such Westernized garments temporarily disappeared during World War II (1939–45).\n\nIn the 1950s, Saigon designers tightened the fit of the ao dai to create the version commonly seen today. Trần Kim of Thiết Lập Tailors and Dũng of Dũng Tailors created a dress with raglan sleeves and a diagonal seam that runs from the collar to the underarm. Madame Nhu, first lady of South Vietnam, popularized a collarless version beginning in 1958. The ao dai was most popular from 1960 to 1975. A brightly colored \"áo dài hippy\" was introduced in 1968. The \"áo dài mini\", a version designed for practical use and convenience, had slits that extended above the waist and panels that reached only to the knee.\n\nThe ao dai has always been more common in the South than in the North. The communists, who gained power in the North in 1954 and in the South in 1975, had conflicted feelings about the ao dai. They praised it as a national costume and one was worn to the Paris Peace Conference (1969–73) by Vietcong negotiator Nguyễn Thị Bình. Yet Westernized versions of the dress and those associated with \"decadent\" Saigon of the 1960s and early 1970s were condemned. Economic crisis, famine, and war with Cambodia combined to make the 1980s a fashion low point. The ao dai was rarely worn except at weddings and other formal occasions, with the older, looser-fitting style preferred. Overseas Vietnamese, meanwhile, kept tradition alive with \"Miss Ao Dai\" pageants (\"Hoa Hậu Áo Dài\"), the most notable one held annually in Long Beach, California.\n\nThe ao dai experienced a revival beginning in late 1980s, when state enterprise and schools began adopting the dress as a uniform again. In 1989, 16,000 Vietnamese attended a Miss Ao Dai Beauty Contest held in Ho Chi Minh City. When the Miss International Pageant in Tokyo gave its \"Best National Costume\" award to an ao dai-clad Trường Quỳnh Mai in 1995, \"Thời Trang Trẻ\" (New Fashion Magazine) claimed that Vietnam's \"national soul\" was \"once again honored\". An \"ao dai craze\" followed that lasted for several years and led to wider use of the dress as a school uniform.\n\nNo longer deemed politically controversial, ao dai fashion design is supported by the Vietnamese government. It is often called \"áo dài Việt Nam\" to link it to patriotic feelings. Designer Le Si Hoang is a celebrity in Vietnam and his shop in Saigon is the place to visit for those who admire the dress. In Hanoi, tourists get fitted with ao dai on Luong Van Can Street. The elegant city of Huế in the central region is known for its ao dai, \"nón lá\" (traditional leaf hats), and well-dressed women.\n\nThe ao dai is now a standard for weddings, for celebrating Tết and for other formal occasions. It's the required uniform for female teachers (mostly from high school to below) and female students in common high schools in the South; there is no requirement for color or pattern for teachers while students use plain white with some small patterns like flowers for school uniform. Companies often require their female staff to wear uniforms that include the ao dai, so flight attendants, receptionists, bank female staff, restaurant staff, and hotel workers in Vietnam may be seen wearing it.\nThe most popular style of ao dai fits tightly around the wearer's upper torso, emphasizing her bust and curves. Although the dress covers the entire body, it is thought to be provocative, especially when it is made of thin fabric. \"The ao dai covers everything, but hides nothing\", according to one saying. The dress must be individually fitted and usually requires several weeks for a tailor to complete. An ao dai costs about $200 in the United States and about $40 in Vietnam.\n\n\"Symbolically, the ao dai invokes nostalgia and timelessness associated with a gendered image of the homeland for which many Vietnamese people throughout the diaspora yearn,\" wrote Nhi T. Lieu, an assistant professor at the University of Texas at Austin. The difficulties of working while wearing an ao dai link the dress to frailty and innocence, she wrote. Vietnamese writers who favor the use of the ao dai as a school uniform cite the inconvenience of wearing it as an advantage, a way of teaching students feminine behavior such as modesty, caution, and a refined manner.\n\nThe ao dai is featured in an array of Vietnam-themed or related movies. In \"Good Morning, Vietnam\" (1987), Robin Williams's character is wowed by ao dai-clad women when he first arrives in Saigon. The 1992 films \"Indochine\" and \"The Lover\" inspired several international fashion houses to design ao dai collections, including Prada's SS08 collection and a Georgio Armani collection. In the Vietnamese film \"The White Silk Dress\" (2007), an ao dai is the sole legacy that the mother of a poverty-stricken family has to pass on to her daughters. The Hanoi City Complex, a 65-story building now under construction, will have an ao dai-inspired design. Vietnamese designers created ao dai for the contestants in the Miss Universe beauty contest, which was held July 2008 in Nha Trang, Vietnam.\n\nThe most prominent annual Ao Dai Festival outside of Vietnam is held each year in San Jose, California, a city that is home to a large Vietnamese American community. This event features an international array of designer ao dai under the direction of festival founder, Jenny Do.\n\nFast pace of life in Vietnam during the decades of integration and development witnesses the changes in the traditional ao dai. This does not mean that the traditional ao dai is disappearing from Vietnamese life. Yet, it is becoming more adaptable to these modern days.\nThe growing of the country day by day requires the changing and the ability of adapting. The traditional ao dai is not the exception. It is not because the design of the ao dai does not fit to the aesthetic point of view of modern Vietnamese. Actually, because the traditional ao dai is inconvenient in daily life, it must be “modernized”. Indeed, the design of the ao dai is no longer suitable for working or travelling on transportation. Moreover, the extreme weather in Viet Nam makes citizens uncomfortable when wearing the ao dai. Besides, it is wardrobe malfunction that causes to the fear of wearing the ao dai in daily activities. Thus, people change the ao dai in its designs and materials so that wearers find it more comfortable and convenient.\n\nThe modern ao dai turned up several years ago. However, the ao dai was a concern of people who need to wear it as a uniform such as: teacher, flight attendance, receptionists. It was not until the end of the year 2016 did the modern ao dai become so popular with hundreds of new designs. It is modified in the collar, the sleeves or the length of two flaps. Furthermore, instead of wearing pants with the ao dai, people nowadays prefer to wear culottes and skirts inside it. Not only the change in designs, people also use different materials for the modern ao dai like silk, brocade fabric or voile fabric.\n\nAlong with the wave of the modern ao dai, there is criticism about these transformation. People who want to reserve traditional value in the ao dai argue that the modern ao dai is miscellaneous. Mr. Duc Hung, Vietnamese famous designer, also raised his opinion about this issue: “I do assert that it is not the ao dai of Viet Nam. If we continue to advocate the trend of the modern ao dai, the traditional ao dai will be buried in oblivion…”. In spite of this, there are still a lot of favor from Vietnamese youngsters to the modern ao dai.\n\n\n"}
