{"id": "10862574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10862574", "title": "28 (book)", "text": "28 (book)\n\n28: Stories of AIDS in Africa is a 2007 non-fiction book by Canadian author Stephanie Nolen, Africa correspondent for \"The Globe and Mail\".\n\nThe book profiles 28 Africans who have HIV/AIDS, or have otherwise been affected by it. The number 28 was chosen to reflect the 28 million Africans who had HIV in 2007, according to UNAIDS. Nolen spent six years traveling through Africa to gather the stories. The stories range from orphans, a truck driver, a miner, and a grandmother raising her grandchildren alone in poverty, to college educated patients, military members, clergy, and even Nelson Mandela, whose son Makgatho died of AIDS.\n\nStephen Lewis described the book as \"the best book ever written about AIDS, certainly the best I've ever read\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49544202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49544202", "title": "Anticancer Fund", "text": "Anticancer Fund\n\nThe Anticancer Fund (ACF) is a Belgian private not-for-profit foundation that provides evidence-based information for patients about cancers and therapies.\n\nOfficially established in 2013, the foundation has grown from Reliable Cancer Therapies (RCT), a non-profit organization established in 2009. RCT is still operational today, but the foundation has taken over many of its tasks as well as the goals.\n\nThe vision of the ACF is to expand the amount of possible treatment options for cancer. The mission of the Anticancer Fund is to cure all people who suffer from cancer. This is done on two levels: information and research.\n\nOne of the main activities of the anticancer Fund is providing the public with scientifically accurate information regarding cancer and treatments. This includes information on the different types of cancer, treatments (both conventional and non-conventional) and other information related to cancer and therapies. The Anticancer Fund holds a HON-certificate for the information that can be found on its website.\n\nPart of ACF's activities in the information section focus on exposing false and potentially lethal information. This fits in with the goal of providing evidence-based information concerning cancer and cancer treatments. An example of this is the drug GcMAF, which has been promoted as a miracle cure for several illnesses including cancer, but for which those results were never confirmed by independent study.\n\nDr Pan Pantziarka is the organisation's spokesman in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn terms of research, the ACF develops promising treatment options for patients, which is done on an international scale. The ACF collaborates with other researchers across the European continent to advance the development of cures. The ACF also funds promising research projects financially. For example, the ACF is partaking in the CUSP9 trials, which focuses on the re-purposing of drugs for the treatment of cancer. It has formed a partnership called the Repurposing Drugs in Oncology project with the American GlobalCures to investigate the use of existing medicines with novel uses. It has identified Diclofenac, a common painkiller, as having significant anti-cancer properties. It is also investigating the use of nitroglycerin.\n\nACF’s funding comes from a private fund, as well donations from individuals who wish to support the cause of the Anticancer Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "49041455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49041455", "title": "Assembly bonus effect", "text": "Assembly bonus effect\n\nFirst proposed in 1965 an assembly bonus effect requires demonstration of group performance which exceeds the combined contributions of individual group members. There is evidence for both task-specific assembly bonus effects, and a general effect of collective intelligence, analogous to that of general intelligence.\n"}
{"id": "55511896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55511896", "title": "Athlone District Hospital", "text": "Athlone District Hospital\n\nAthlone Hospital, also known as Lobatse Hospital, is a government-run district hospital located in Lobatse, Botswana.\n\nAthlone hospital is considered to be one of the first hospitals in Botswana, located in Lobatse, a town in South-Eastern Botswana, 70 kilometres south of the capital Gaborone, situated in a valley running north towards Gaborone. It is established in year 1929 and it's a government institution.\n\nBotswana Ministry of Health\n"}
{"id": "29085796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29085796", "title": "Bernard Gilles Penot", "text": "Bernard Gilles Penot\n\nBernard Gilles Penot (1519 in Guyenne – 1617 in Yverdon-les-Bains) was a French Renaissance alchemist and a friend of Nicolas Barnaud.\n\nPenot studied in Basel. Penot came under the influence of Paracelsus through Adam von Bodenstein. He supposedly squandered his entire fortune on his alchemical studies, while searching for the Philosopher's Stone. In the end, he distanced himself from alchemy, which he had previously defended in writing.\n\nPenot occasionally served as doctor in Frankenthal (Pfalz). He travelled a great deal and had a wide network of contacts and correspondents in England, Bohemia and Switzerland, and including Jacob Zwinger and Andreas Libavius. He died impoverished at the hospital in Yverdon-les-Bains (Ifferten), where he had been the city doctor from 1596.\n\nThe influential three volume Theatrum Chemicum from 1602, a compendium of early alchemical writings, included the text of entitled: \" Treatise varii, the vera praeparatione et usu Medicamentorum chemicorum (Praefatio, De medicamentis chemicis).\" According to Didier Kahn he was also the publisher of the \"Centum quindecim curationes\" in 1582 which was attributed to Paracelsus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21219410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21219410", "title": "Capital punishment in Tajikistan", "text": "Capital punishment in Tajikistan\n\nCapital punishment in Tajikistan is allowed by Article 18 of the 1999 Constitution of Tajikistan, which provides: \nThe last known execution took place in 2004. That same year, a moratorium was issued on capital punishment by president Emomali Rahmon.\n\nTajikistan is not signatory to the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which aims to abolish the death penalty.\n"}
{"id": "32104707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32104707", "title": "Cellular noise", "text": "Cellular noise\n\nCellular noise is random variability in quantities arising in cellular biology. For example, cells which are genetically identical, even within the same tissue, are often observed to have different expression levels of proteins, different sizes and structures. These apparently random differences can have important biological and medical consequences.\n\nCellular noise was originally, and is still often, examined in the context of gene expression levels – either the concentration or copy number of the products of genes within and between cells. As gene expression levels are responsible for many fundamental properties in cellular biology, including cells' physical appearance, behaviour in response to stimuli, and ability to process information and control internal processes, the presence of noise in gene expression has profound implications for many processes in cellular biology.\n\nThe most frequent quantitative definition of noise is the coefficient of variation:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the noise in a quantity formula_3, formula_4 is the mean value of formula_3 and formula_6 is the standard deviation of formula_3. This measure is dimensionless, allowing a relative comparison of the importance of noise, without necessitating knowledge of the absolute mean.\n\nOther quantities often used for mathematical convenience are the Fano factor:\n\nand the normalized variance:\n\nCellular noise is often investigated in the framework of \"intrinsic\" and \"extrinsic\" noise. Intrinsic noise refers to variation in identically-regulated quantities within a single cell: for example, the intra-cell variation in expression levels of two identically-controlled genes. Extrinsic noise refers to variation in identically-regulated quantities between different cells: for example, the cell-to-cell variation in expression of a given gene.\n\nIntrinsic and extrinsic noise levels are often compared in dual reporter studies, in which the expression levels of two identically-regulated genes (often fluorescent reporters like GFP and YFP) are plotted for each cell in a population.\n\n\"Note\": These lists are illustrative, not exhaustive, and identification of noise sources is an active and expanding area of research.\n\n\nNote that extrinsic noise can affect levels and types of intrinsic noise: for example, extrinsic differences in the mitochondrial content of cells lead, through differences in ATP levels, to some cells transcribing faster than others, affecting the rates of gene expression and the magnitude of intrinsic noise across the population.\n\n\"Note\": These lists are illustrative, not exhaustive, and identification of noise effects is an active and expanding area of research.\n\n\nAs many quantities of cell biological interest are present in discrete copy number within the cell (single DNAs, dozens of mRNAs, hundreds of proteins), tools from discrete stochastic mathematics are often used to analyse and model cellular noise. In particular, master equation treatments – where the probabilities formula_10 of observing a system in a state formula_11 at time formula_12 are linked through ODEs – have proved particularly fruitful. A canonical model for noise gene expression, where the processes of DNA activation, transcription and translation are all represented as Poisson processes with given rates, gives a master equation which may be solved exactly (with generating functions) under various assumptions or approximated with stochastic tools like Van Kampen's system size expansion.\n\nNumerically, the Gillespie algorithm or stochastic simulation algorithm is often used to create realisations of stochastic cellular processes, from which statistics can be calculated.\n\nThe problem of inferring the values of parameters in stochastic models (parametric inference) for biological processes, which are typically characterised by sparse and noisy experimental data, is an active field of research, with methods including Bayesian MCMC and approximate Bayesian computation proving adaptable and robust. Regarding the two-state model, a moment-based method was described for parameters inference from mRNAs distributions.\n"}
{"id": "58837186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58837186", "title": "Creative Growth Art Center", "text": "Creative Growth Art Center\n\nCreative Growth Art Center is a nonprofit arts organization that provides studios, supplies, and gallery space to artists with developmental, mental, and physical disabilities.\n\nIn 1974, the husband and wife pair of Florence Ludins-Katz and Elias Katz founded Creative Growith in their garage. Ludins-Katz was an artist and Katz was a psychologist. A product of Bay Area grassroots collectivism and the disability-rights movement of the 1970s, the nonprofit Creative Growth Art Center is currently run by the filmmaker and former curator, Tom di Maria.\n\nEventually, Creative Growth relocated to a former auto-repair shop near downtown Oakland, California where it currently operates.\n\nIn 2010, Matthew Higgs, Director/Chief Curator at White Columns, curated a show titled \"Everyone!\" that featured over 130 works made by Creative Growth artists and included each and every artist currently enrolled in the studio program.\n\nThousands of artists have come through Creative Growth's doors over the years. A number have reach national recognition. Recently, Creative Growth artists have had major exhibitions at the National Gallery of Art, Washington DC (Judith Scott, 2018); Venice Biennale (Dan Miller and Judith Scott, 2017); Brooklyn Museum (Judith Scott, 2015); Museum of Modern Art (Dan Miller, 2008); and White Columns (William Scott, 2009, 2006).\n\nBeyond Trend is Creative Growth's runway extravaganza that started in 2010 as a small in-gallery showing of fashion. The 2018 show, its' largest yet, opened at the 1,250-seat Scottish Rite Center, where it was chaired by Paper magazine co-founder Kim Hastreiter and Target Chief Creative Officer Todd Waterbury.\n\nCreative Growth was featured in the October 1990 issue of Elle Decor in an article tilted \"Aimed Straight From The Heart\" written by Susan Subtle. Subtle reviews the organization highly. She compares the style of art made at creative growth to Outsider, Primitive, Naive, Brut, and early-American folk art. \n\nIn 2015, the organization was featured in a T Magazine article titled \"A Training Ground For Untrained Artists\" written by Nathaniel Rich.\n\nIn 2018, a segment in the ninth season of Art in the Twenty-First Century, Art21 talks to some of the artists and administrators involved with Creative Growth.\n\n"}
{"id": "45371239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45371239", "title": "CrowdMed", "text": "CrowdMed\n\nCrowdMed is a healthcare crowdsourcing platform based in San Francisco, California. Jared Heyman, Axel Setyanto and Jessica Greenwalt founded the company in 2012. CrowdMed aims to identify illnesses that have gone without a diagnosis and has handled more than 900 cases since its launch at TEDMED 2013 in Washington, D.C.\n\nCrowdMed was founded in 2012. During the creation process, the company's website was tested with 300 randomly selected people in the summer of 2012. It was one of 46 companies to participate in the Y Combinator winter 2013 class. CrowdMed launched its public beta at TEDMED 2013 in Washington, D.C. The company aims to speedup and lower the cost of diagnosing rare medical conditions by crowdsourcing and applying prediction market technology to medical data. CrowdMed has users in 21 countries around the world, and has raised $2.4 million in seed funding from investors including New Enterprise Associates, Greylock Partners, Y Combinator, Andreessen Horowitz, SV Angel, Khosla Ventures and actor Patrick Dempsey. Dr. Amin Azzam is adding CrowdMed cases to his curriculum at the University of California at Berkeley, California and San Francisco’s joint medical program.\n\nPrior to founding CrowdMed, CEO Jared Heyman built the internet survey company Infosurv, lead developer Axel Setyano worked at Loku, and lead designer Jessica Greenwalt founded graphic design firm Pixelkeet. Former WebMD general manager Clare Martorana and Second Life founder Philip Rosedale are advisors for the company.\n\nThere is a free case submission option, but CrowdMed also offers three paid packages each providing additional benefits. User information is kept anonymous and their case includes symptoms, health history, family background, and tests that have already been taken. Hundreds of \"medical detectives\" then submit possible diagnoses which other detectives bet upon to agree with the result. These \"medical detectives\" can be anyone from medical school students, to retired physicians, to anyone else, as there is no requirement for a medical degree to help solve these illnesses. In the end, the top three diagnoses are given to the patient for them to take to their doctor. The results from each medical detective are weighed based on their prior performance and current rating from patients, additionally medical detectives may also earn and share monetary rewards offered by patients to anyone who helps solve their case. As of May 2015, CrowdMed has solved over 900 cases, which take from a few weeks to a month to solve.\n\nUsers have expressed concerns that the information provided may not always come from reliable sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "7190826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7190826", "title": "Data clarification form", "text": "Data clarification form\n\nA data clarification form (DCF) or data query form is a questionnaire specifically used in clinical research. The DCF is the primary data clarification tool from the trial sponsor or contract research organization (CRO) towards the investigator to clarify discrepancies and ask the investigator for clarification. The DCF is part of the data validation process in a clinical trial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17832", "title": "Demographics of Luxembourg", "text": "Demographics of Luxembourg\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Luxembourg, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nThe following is an overview of the demographics of Luxembourg. Demographic topics include basic statistics, most populous cities, and religious affiliation.\n\nThe population of Luxembourg as of 1 January 2013 was estimated at 537,039 (55.5% Luxembourgers and 44.5% of foreign nationality).\n\nThe people of Luxembourg are called Luxembourgers.\n\nThe following table chronicles factors such as population, birth rates, and death rates in Luxembourg since 1900.\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nThe foreign population resident in Luxembourg currently numbers over 238,800, corresponding to 44,5% of the total population (compared to 17% in the 1960s). These immigrants are overwhelmingly nationals of EU countries (accounting for over 90%), by far the greater part of whom originally come from Portugal, Italy and the two neighbouring countries, France and Belgium. For some years, there has also been a big increase in the number of immigrants and asylum seekers from the countries of Eastern Europe, and especially the new republics to have emerged from the former Yugoslavia (Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro). These immigrants include a considerable proportion of young people. Immigrants (especially asylum seekers) have a strong impact on the birth rate, accounting for nearly 50% of births in Luxembourg.\n\nA more detailed breakdown by nationality shows that the Portuguese community is still the largest group, accounting for more than a third of the foreign population. The Italian population has been stable for the past ten years at approximatively 20,000. Some 47,000 foreigners come from bordering countries (France, Belgium and Germany).\n\nAs of 2014 the estimated population of Russian nationals in Luxembourg is 5,000. Luxembourg Russian Saturday school, Kalinka, serves students ages 3–12 and includes Russian language and cultural classes. In 2014, there were 160 students and 22 teachers in the school.\n\nThe Japanese Supplementary School in Luxembourg (ルクセンブルグ補習授業校 \"Rukusenburugu Hoshū Jugyō Kō\") is a Japanese supplementary school operated in the country, serving students ages 6–15. It is held at the International School Luxembourg and as of 2014 has about 60 students. Its operations at the ISL began in 1991.\n\nThe predominant religion of the Luxembourg population is Roman Catholic, with Protestant, Anglican, Jewish and Muslim minorities. According to a 1979 law, the government forbids collection of data on religious practices, but over 90% is estimated to be baptized Catholic (the Virgin Mary is the Patroness of the city of Luxembourg).\n\nThe Lutherans are the largest Protestant denomination in the country. Muslims are estimated to number approximately 6000 persons, notably including 1,500 refugees from Montenegro; Orthodox (Albanian, Greek, Serbian, Russian, and Romanian) adherents are estimated to number approximately 5,000 persons, along with approximately 1,000 Jews. Freedom of religion is provided by the Luxembourg Constitution. \n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\n24.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2007 est.)\n\n\n4.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2007 est.)\n\n\n1.7 children born/woman (2002 est.)\n\n\nA plethora of languages are spoken in Luxembourg, but the three primary languages are Luxembourgish (national and administrative language), German (administrative language), and French (administrative language).\n\nThe following table lists the percentage of citizens of Luxembourg who are able to speak a native language, or two or more languages. \nAdditionally, people born in foreign countries and temporary guest workers make up more than a third (40%) of the population of Luxembourg. Although most of these foreign born people primarily speak German and French, a significant minority also are native Portuguese, Italian, and English.\n"}
{"id": "205156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205156", "title": "Dysgeusia", "text": "Dysgeusia\n\nDysgeusia, also known as parageusia, is a distortion of the sense of taste. Dysgeusia is also often associated with ageusia, which is the complete lack of taste, and hypogeusia, which is a decrease in taste sensitivity. An alteration in taste or smell may be a secondary process in various disease states, or it may be the primary symptom. The distortion in the sense of taste is the only symptom, and diagnosis is usually complicated since the sense of taste is tied together with other sensory systems. Common causes of dysgeusia include chemotherapy, asthma treatment with albuterol, and zinc deficiency. Different drugs could also be responsible for altering taste and resulting in dysgeusia. Due to the variety of causes of dysgeusia, there are many possible treatments that are effective in alleviating or terminating the symptoms of dysgeusia. These include artificial saliva, pilocarpine, zinc supplementation, alterations in drug therapy, and alpha lipoic acid.\n\nThe alterations in the sense of taste, usually a metallic taste, and sometimes smell are the only symptoms. The duration of the symptoms of dysgeusia depends on the cause. If the alteration in the sense of taste is due to gum disease, dental plaque, a temporary medication, or a short-term condition such as a cold, the dysgeusia should disappear once the cause is removed. In some cases, if lesions are present in the taste pathway and nerves have been damaged, the dysgeusia may be permanent.\n\nA major cause of dysgeusia is chemotherapy for cancer. Chemotherapy often induces damage to the oral cavity, resulting in oral mucositis, oral infection, and salivary gland dysfunction. Oral mucositis consists of inflammation of the mouth, along with sores and ulcers in the tissues. Healthy individuals normally have a diverse range of microbial organisms residing in their oral cavities; however, chemotherapy can permit these typically non-pathogenic agents to cause serious infection, which may result in a decrease in saliva. In addition, patients who undergo radiation therapy also lose salivary tissues. Saliva is an important component of the taste mechanism. Saliva both interacts with and protects the taste receptors in the mouth. Saliva mediates sour and sweet tastes through bicarbonate ions and glutamate, respectively. The salt taste is induced when sodium chloride levels surpass the concentration in the saliva. It has been reported that 50% of chemotherapy patients have suffered from either dysgeusia or another form of taste impairment. Examples of chemotherapy treatments that can lead to dysgeusia are cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and etoposide. The exact mechanism of chemotherapy-induced dysgeusia is unknown.\n\nDistortions in the taste buds may give rise to dysgeusia. In a study conducted by Masahide Yasuda and Hitoshi Tomita from Nihon University of Japan, it has been observed that patients suffering from this taste disorder have fewer microvilli than normal. In addition, the nucleus and cytoplasm of the taste bud cells have been reduced. Based on their findings, dygeusia results from loss of microvilli and the reduction of Type III intracellular vesicles, all of which could potentially interfere with the gustatory pathway. Radiation to head and neck also results in direct destruction of taste buds, apart from effects of altered salivary output.\n\nAnother primary cause of dysgeusia is zinc deficiency. While the exact role of zinc in dysgeusia is unknown, it has been cited that zinc is partly responsible for the repair and production of taste buds. Zinc somehow directly or indirectly interacts with carbonic anhydrase VI, influencing the concentration of gustin, which is linked to the production of taste buds. It has also been reported that patients treated with zinc experience an elevation in calcium concentration in the saliva. In order to work properly, taste buds rely on calcium receptors. Zinc “is an important cofactor for alkaline phosphatase, the most abundant enzyme in taste bud membranes; it is also a component of a parotid salivary protein important to the development and maintenance of normal taste buds.”\n\nThere are also a wide variety of drugs that can trigger dysgeusia, including zopiclone, H-antihistamines, such as azelastine and emedastine. Approximately 250 drugs affect taste. The sodium channels linked to taste receptors can be inhibited by amiloride, and the creation of new taste buds and saliva can be impeded by antiproliferative drugs. Saliva can have traces of the drug, giving rise to a metallic flavor in the mouth; examples include lithium carbonate and tetracyclines. Drugs containing sulfhydryl groups, including penicillamine and captopril, may react with zinc and cause deficiency. Metronidazole and chlorhexidine have been found to interact with metal ions that associate with the cell membrane. Drugs that prevent the production of angiotensin II by inhibiting angiotensin converting enzyme, eprosartan for example, have been linked to dysgeusia. There are few case reports claiming calcium channel blockers like Amlodipine also cause dysguesia by blocking calcium sensitive taste buds.\n\nXerostomia, also known as dry mouth syndrome, can precipitate dysgeusia because normal salivary flow and concentration are necessary for taste. Injury to the glossopharyngeal nerve can result in dysgeusia. In addition, damage done to the pons, thalamus, and midbrain, all of which compose the gustatory pathway, can be potential factors. In a case study, 22% of patients who were experiencing a bladder obstruction were also suffering from dysgeusia. Dysgeusia was eliminated in 100% of these patients once the obstruction was removed. Although it is uncertain what the relationship between bladder relief and dysgeusia entails, it has been observed that the areas responsible for urinary system and taste in the pons and cerebral cortex in the brain are close in proximity.\n\nMany of the causes for dysgeusia occur due to unknown reasons. A wide range of miscellaneous factors may contribute to this taste disorder, such as gastric reflux, lead poisoning, and diabetes mellitus. A minority of pine nuts can apparently cause taste disturbances, for reasons which are not entirely proven. Certain pesticides can have damaging effects on the taste buds and nerves in the mouth. These pesticides include organochloride compounds and carbamate pesticides. Damage to the peripheral nerves, along with injury to the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve, also cause dysgeusia. A surgical risk for laryngoscopy and tonsillectomy include dysgeusia. Patients who suffer from the burning mouth syndrome, most likely menopausal women, are often suffering from dysgeusia as well.\n\nThe sense of taste is based on the detection of chemicals by specialized taste cells in the mouth. The mouth, throat, larynx, and esophagus all have taste buds, which are replaced every ten days. Each taste bud contains receptor cells. Afferent nerves make contact with the receptor cells at the base of the taste bud. A single taste bud is innervated by several afferent nerves, while a single efferent fiber innervates several taste buds. Fungiform papillae are present on the anterior portion of the tongue while circumvallate papillae and foliate papillae are found on the posterior portion of the tongue. The salivary glands are responsible for keeping the taste buds moist with saliva.\n\nA single taste bud is composed of four different types of cells, and each taste bud has at least 30 to 80 cells. Type I cells are thinly shaped, usually in the periphery of other cells. They also contain high amounts of chromatin. Type II cells have prominent nuclei and nucleoli with much less chromatin than Type I cells. Type III cells have multiple mitochondria and large vesicles. Type I, II, and III cells also contain synapses. Type IV cells are normally rooted at the posterior end of the taste bud. Every cell in the taste bud forms microvilli at the ends.\nIn humans, the sense of taste is conveyed via three of the twelve cranial nerves. The chorda tympani is responsible for taste sensations from the anterior two thirds of the tongue, the glossopharyngeal nerve (IX) is responsible for taste sensations from the posterior one third of the tongue while a branch of the vagus nerve (X) carries some taste sensations from the back of the oral cavity.\n\nIn general, gustatory disorders are challenging to diagnose and evaluate. Because gustatory functions are tied to the sense of smell, the somatosensory system, and the perception of pain (such as in tasting spicy foods), it is difficult to examine sensations mediated through an individual system. In addition, gustatory dysfunction is rare when compared to olfactory disorders.\n\nDiagnosis of dysgeusia begins with the patient being questioned about salivation, swallowing, chewing, oral pain, previous ear infections (possibly indicated by hearing or balance problems), oral hygiene, and stomach problems. The initial history assessment also considers the possibility of accompanying diseases such as diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, or cancer. A clinical examination is conducted and includes an inspection of the tongue and the oral cavity. Furthermore, the ear canal is inspected, as lesions of the chorda tympani have a predilection for this site.\n\nIn order to further classify the extent of dysgeusia and clinically measure the sense of taste, gustatory testing may be performed. Gustatory testing is performed either as a whole-mouth procedure or as a regional test. In both techniques, natural or electrical stimuli can be used. In regional testing, 20 to 50 µL of liquid stimulus is presented to the anterior and posterior tongue using a pipette, soaked filter-paper disks, or cotton swabs. In whole mouth testing, small quantities (2-10 mL) of solution are administered, and the patient is asked to swish the solution around in the mouth.\n\nThreshold tests for sucrose (sweet), citric acid (sour), sodium chloride (salty), and quinine or caffeine (bitter) are frequently performed with natural stimuli. One of the most frequently used techniques is the \"three-drop test.\" In this test, three drops of liquid are presented to the subject. One of the drops is of the taste stimulus, and the other two drops are pure water. Threshold is defined as the concentration at which the patient identifies the taste correctly three times in a row.\n\nSuprathreshold tests, which provide intensities of taste stimuli above threshold levels, are used to assess the patient's ability to differentiate between different intensities of taste and to estimate the magnitude of suprathreshold loss of taste. From these tests, ratings of pleasantness can be obtained using either the direct scaling or magnitude matching method and may be of value in the diagnosis of dysgeusia. Direct scaling tests show the ability to discriminate among different intensities of stimuli and whether a stimulus of one quality (sweet) is stronger or weaker than a stimulus of another quality (sour). Direct scaling cannot be used to determine if a taste stimulus is being perceived at abnormal levels. In this case, magnitude matching is used, in which a patient is asked to rate the intensities of taste stimuli and stimuli of another sensory system, such as the loudness of a tone, on a similar scale. For example, the Connecticut Chemosensory Clinical Research Center asks patients to rate the intensities of NaCl, sucrose, citric acid and quinine-HCl stimuli, and the loudness of 1000 Hz tones. Assuming normal hearing, the results of this cross-sensory test show the relative strength of the sense of taste in relation to the loudness of the auditory stimulus. Although many of the tests are based on ratings using the direct scaling method, some tests do use the magnitude-matching procedure.\n\nOther tests include identification or discrimination of common taste substances. Topical anesthesia of the tongue has been reported to be of use in the diagnosis of dysgeusia as well, since it has been shown to relieve the symptoms of dysgeusia temporarily. In addition to techniques based on the administration of chemicals to the tongue, electrogustometry is frequently used. It is based on the induction of gustatory sensations by means of an anodal electrical direct current. Patients usually report sour or metallic sensations similar to those associated with touching both poles of a live battery to the tongue. Although electrogustometry is widely used, there seems to be a poor correlation between electrically and chemically induced sensations.\n\nCertain diagnostic tools can also be used to help determine the extent of dysgeusia. Electrophysiological tests and simple reflex tests may be applied to identify abnormalities in the nerve-to-brainstem pathways. For example, the blink reflex may be used to evaluate the integrity of the trigeminal nerve–pontine brainstem–facial nerve pathway, which may play a role in gustatory function.\n\nStructural imaging is routinely used to investigate lesions in the taste pathway. Magnetic resonance imaging allows direct visualization of the cranial nerves. Furthermore, it provides significant information about the type and cause of a lesion. Analysis of mucosal blood flow in the oral cavity in combination with the assessment of autonomous cardiovascular factors appears to be useful in the diagnosis of autonomic nervous system disorders in burning mouth syndrome and in patients with inborn disorders, both of which are associated with gustatory dysfunction. Cell cultures may also be used when fungal or bacterial infections are suspected.\n\nIn addition, the analysis of saliva should be performed, as it constitutes the environment of taste receptors, including transport of tastes to the receptor and protection of the taste receptor. Typical clinical investigations involve sialometry and sialochemistry. Studies have shown that electron micrographs of taste receptors obtained from saliva samples indicate pathological changes in the taste buds of patients with dysgeusia and other gustatory disorders.\n\nBecause medications have been linked to approximately 22% to 28% of all cases of dysgeusia, researching a treatment for this particular cause has been important. Xerostomia, or a decrease in saliva flow, can be a side effect of many drugs, which, in turn, can lead to the development of taste disturbances such as dysgeusia. Patients can lessen the effects of xerostomia with breath mints, sugarless gum, or lozenges, or physicians can increase saliva flow with artificial saliva or oral pilocarpine. Artificial saliva mimics the characteristics of natural saliva by lubricating and protecting the mouth but does not provide any digestive or enzymatic benefits. Pilocarpine is a cholinergic drug meaning it has the same effects as the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Acetylcholine has the function of stimulating the salivary glands to actively produce saliva. The increase in saliva flow is effective in improving the movement of tastants to the taste buds.\n\nApproximately one half of drug-related taste distortions are caused by a zinc deficiency. Many medications are known to chelate, or bind, zinc, preventing the element from functioning properly. Due to the causal relationship of insufficient zinc levels to taste disorders, research has been conducted to test the efficacy of zinc supplementation as a possible treatment for dysgeusia. In a randomized clinical trial, fifty patients suffering from idiopathic dysgeusia were given either zinc or a lactose placebo. The patients prescribed the zinc reported experiencing improved taste function and less severe symptoms compared to the control group, suggesting that zinc may be a beneficial treatment. The efficacy of zinc, however, has been ambiguous in the past. In a second study, 94% of patients who were provided with zinc supplementation did not experience any improvement in their condition. This ambiguity is most likely due to small sample sizes and the wide range of causes of dysgeusia. A recommended daily oral dose of 25–100 mg appears to be an effective treatment for taste dysfunction provided that there are low levels of zinc in the blood serum. There is not a sufficient amount of evidence to determine whether or not zinc supplementation is able to treat dysgeusia when low zinc concentrations are not detected in the blood.\n\nIt has been reported that approximately 68% of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy experience disturbances in sensory perception such as dysgeusia. In a pilot study involving twelve lung cancer patients, chemotherapy drugs were infused with zinc in order to test its potential as a treatment. The results indicated that, after two weeks, no taste disturbances were reported by the patients who received the zinc-supplemented treatment while most of the patients in the control group who did not receive the zinc reported taste alterations. A multi-institutional study involving a larger sample size of 169 patients, however, indicated that zinc-infused chemotherapy did not have an effect on the development of taste disorders in cancer patients. An excess amount of zinc in the body can have negative effects on the immune system, and physicians must use caution when administering zinc to immunocompromised cancer patients. Because taste disorders can have detrimental effects on a patient's quality of life, more research needs to be conducted concerning possible treatments such as zinc supplementation.\n\nThe effects of drug-related dysgeusia can often be reversed by stopping the patient's regimen of the taste altering medication. In one case, a forty-eight-year-old woman who was suffering from hypertension was being treated with valsartan. Due to this drug's inability to treat her condition, she began taking a regimen of eprosartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist. Within three weeks, she began experiencing a metallic taste and a burning sensation in her mouth that ceased when she stopped taking the medication. When she began taking eprosartan on a second occasion, her dysgeusia returned. In a second case, a fifty-nine-year-old man was prescribed amlodipine in order to treat his hypertension. After eight years of taking the drug, he developed a loss of taste sensation and numbness in his tongue. When he ran out of his medication, he decided not to obtain a refill and stopped taking amlodipine. Following this self-removal, he reported experiencing a return of his taste sensation. Once he refilled his prescription and began taking amlodipine a second time, his taste disturbance reoccurred. These two cases suggest that there is an association between these drugs and taste disorders. This link is supported by the \"de-challenge\" and \"re-challenge\" that took place in both instances. It appears that drug-induced dysgeusia can be alleviated by reducing the drug's dose or by substituting a second drug from the same class.\n\nAlpha lipoic acid (ALA) is an antioxidant that is made naturally by human cells. It can also be administered in capsules or can be found in foods such as red meat, organ meats, and yeast. Like other antioxidants, it functions by ridding the body of harmful free radicals that can cause damage to tissues and organs. It has an important role in the Krebs cycle as a coenzyme leading to the production of antioxidants, intracellular glutathione, and nerve-growth factors. Animal research has also uncovered the ability of ALA to improve nerve conduction velocity. Because flavors are perceived by differences in electric potential through specific nerves innervating the tongue, idiopathic dysgeusia may be a form of a neuropathy. ALA has proven to be an effective treatment for burning mouth syndrome spurring studies in its potential to treat dysgeusia. In a study of forty-four patients diagnosed with the disorder, one half was treated with the drug for two months while the other half, the control group, was given a placebo for two months followed by a two-month treatment of ALA. The results reported show that 91% of the group initially treated with ALA reported an improvement in their condition compared to only 36% of the control group. After the control group was treated with ALA, 72% reported an improvement. This study suggests that ALA may be a potential treatment for patients and supports that full double blind randomized studies should be performed.\n\nIn addition to the aforementioned treatments, there are also many management approaches that can alleviate the symptoms of dysgeusia. These include using non-metallic silverware, avoiding metallic or bitter tasting foods, increasing the consumption of foods high in protein, flavoring foods with spices and seasonings, serving foods cold in order to reduce any unpleasant taste or odor, frequently brushing one's teeth and utilizing mouthwash, or using sialogogues such as chewing sugar-free gum or sour-tasting drops that stimulate the productivity of saliva. When taste is impeded, the food experience can be improved through means other than taste, such as texture, aroma, temperature, and color.\n\nPeople who suffer from dysgeusia are also forced to manage the impact that the disorder has on their quality of life. An altered taste has effects on food choice and intake and can lead to weight loss, malnutrition, impaired immunity, and a decline in health. Patients diagnosed with dysgeusia must use caution when adding sugar and salt to food and must be sure not to overcompensate for their lack of taste with excess amounts. Since the elderly are often on multiple medications, they are at risk for taste disturbances increasing the chances of developing depression, loss of appetite, and extreme weight loss. This is cause for an evaluation and management of their dysgeusia. In patients undergoing chemotherapy, taste distortions can often be severe and make compliance with cancer treatment difficult. Other problems that may arise include anorexia and behavioral changes that can be misinterpreted as psychiatric delusions regarding food. Symptoms including paranoia, amnesia, cerebellar malfunction, and lethargy can also manifest when undergoing histidine treatment. This makes it critical that these patients' dysgeusia is either treated or managed in order to improve their quality of life.\n\nEvery year, more than 200,000 individuals see their physicians concerning chemosensory problems, and many more taste disturbances are never reported. Due to the large number of persons affected by taste disorders, basic and clinical research are receiving support at different institutions and chemosensory research centers across the country. These taste and smell clinics are focusing their research on better understanding the mechanisms involved in gustatory function and taste disorders such as dysgeusia. For example, the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders is looking into the mechanisms underlying the key receptors on taste cells and applying this knowledge to the future of medications and artificial food products. Meanwhile, the Taste and Smell Clinic at the University of Connecticut Health Center is integrating behavioral, neurophysiological, and genetic studies involving stimulus concentrations and intensities in order to better understand taste function. The purpose of these studies is to unearth the biological mechanisms underlying taste and to use this data to eliminate taste disorders in order to improve the lives of taste disorder sufferers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58364348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58364348", "title": "European Society of Anaesthesiology", "text": "European Society of Anaesthesiology\n\nThe European Society of Anaesthesiology (ESA), established in its current form in 2005, is the largest association of physicians specialising in anaesthesiology in Europe.\n\nIts stated mission is \"to aim for the highest standards of practice and safety in anaesthesia, perioperative medicine, intensive care, critical emergency medicine and pain treatment through education, research and professional development throughout Europe.\" The Society also administers an academic journal, the \"European Journal of Anaesthesiology\" (EJA). It was formed in 2005 to unify the roles of three previous organisations: the European Academy of Anaesthesiology (EAA) dating from 1978, the former European Society of Anaesthesiologists (ESA) established in 1992, and the Confederation of European National Societies of Anaesthesiology (CENSA).\n"}
{"id": "8053588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8053588", "title": "Food safety", "text": "Food safety\n\nFood safety is a scientific discipline describing handling, preparation, and storage of food in ways that prevent food-borne illness. The occurrence of two or more cases of a similar illnesses resulting from the ingestion of a common food is known as a food-borne disease outbreak. This includes a number of routines that should be followed to avoid potential health hazards. In this way food safety often overlaps with food defense to prevent harm to consumers. The tracks within this line of thought are safety between industry and the market and then between the market and the consumer. In considering industry to market practices, food safety considerations include the origins of food including the practices relating to food labeling, food hygiene, food additives and pesticide residues, as well as policies on biotechnology and food and guidelines for the management of governmental import and export inspection and certification systems for foods. In considering market to consumer practices, the usual thought is that food ought to be safe in the market and the concern is safe delivery and preparation of the food for the consumer.\n\nFood can transmit pathogens which can result in the illness or death of the person or other animals. The main mediums are bacteria, viruses, mold, and fungus (which is Latin for mushroom). It can also serve as a growth and reproductive medium for pathogens. In developed countries there are intricate standards for food preparation, whereas in lesser developed countries there are fewer standards and less enforcement of those standards. Another main issue is simply the availability of adequate safe water, which is usually a critical item in the spreading of diseases. In theory, food poisoning is 100% preventable. However this cannot be achieved due to the number of persons involved in the supply chain, as well as the fact that pathogens can be introduced into foods no matter how many precautions are taken.\nThe five key principles of food hygiene, according to WHO, are:\n\nFood safety issues and regulations concern:\n\nFood contamination happens when food are corrupted with another substance. It can happen In the process of production, transportation, packaging, storage, sales and cooking process. The contamination can be physical, chemical and biological.\n\nPhysical contaminants (or ‘foreign bodies’) are objects such as hair, plant stalks or pieces of plastic and metal. When the foreign object comes into the food, it is a physical contaminant. If the foreign objects are bacteria, the case will a physical and biological contamination.\n\nCommon sources to create physical contaminations are: hair, glass or metal, pests, jewelry, dirt and fingernails.\n\nChemical contamination happens when food is contaminated with a natural or artificial chemical substance. Common sources of chemical contamination can include: pesticides, herbicides, veterinary drugs, contamination from environmental sources (water, air or soil pollution), cross-contamination during food processing, migration from food packaging materials, presence of natural toxins or use of unapproved food additives and adulterants.\n\nChemical contaminations usually share the following characteristics:\n\n\nBiological contamination refers to food that has been contaminated by substances produced by living creatures, such as humans, rodents, pests or microorganisms. This includes bacterial contamination, viral contamination, or parasite contamination that’s transferred through saliva, pest droppings, blood or faecal matter. Bacterial contamination is the most common cause of food poisoning worldwide. If an environment is high in starch or protein, water, oxygen, has a neutral PH level, and maintains a temperature between 5ºC and 60ºC (danger zone) for even a brief period of time (~0-20 minutes) , bacteria are likely to survive. \n\n\nUp to May, 2018, 26 states in the United States confirmed with an outbreak of the bacteria strain . Several investigations show the contamination might have come from the Yuma, Ariz. growing region. This outbreak, which began April 10, is the largest US flare-up of E. coli in a decade. One person in California has died. At least 14 of the people affected developed kidney failure. The most common symptoms of E. coli include diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting.\n\nProper storage, sanitary tools and work spaces, heating and cooling properly and to adequate temperatures, and avoiding contact with other uncooked foods can greatly reduce the chances of contamination. Tightly sealed water and air proof containers are good measures to limit the chances of both physical and biological contamination during storage. Using clean, sanitary surfaces and tools, free of debris, chemicals, standing liquids, and other food types (different than the kind currently being prepared, i.e. mixing vegetables/meats or beef/poultry) can help reduce the chance of all forms of contamination. However, even if all precautions have been taken and the food has been safely prepared and stored, bacteria can still form over time during storage. Food should be consumed within one to seven (1-7) days while it has been stored in a cold environment, or one to twelve (1-12) months if it was in a frozen environment (if it was frozen immediately after preparation). The length of time before a food becomes unsafe to eat depends on the type of food it is, the surrounding environment, and the method with which it is kept out of the danger zone. For example, liquid foods like soup kept in a hot slow cooker (65° C) may last only a few hours before contamination, but fresh meats like beef and lamb that are promptly frozen (-2° C) can last up to a year. The geographical location can also be a factor if it is in close proximity to wildlife. Animals like rodents and insects can infiltrate a container or prep area if left unattended. Any food that has been stored while in an exposed environment should be carefully inspected before consuming, especially if it was at risk of being in contact with animals. Consider all forms of contamination when deciding if a food is safe or unsafe, as some forms or contamination will not leave any apparent signs. Bacteria may not be visible to the naked eye, debris (physical contamination) may be underneath the surface of a food, and chemicals may be clear or tasteless; the contaminated food may not change in smell, texture, appearance, or taste, and could still be contaminated. Any foods deemed contaminated should be disposed of immediately, and any surrounding food should be checked for additional contamination.\n\nISO 22000 is a standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization dealing with food safety. This is a general derivative of ISO 9000.\nISO 22000 standard: The ISO 22000 international standard specifies the requirements for a food safety management system that involves interactive communication, system management, prerequisite programs, HACCP principles. ISO 22000 was first published in 2005. It is the culmination of all previous attempts from many sources and areas of food safety concern to provide an end product that is safe as possible from pathogens and other contaminants. Every 5 years standards are reviewed to determine whether a revision is necessary, to ensure that the standards remain as relevant and useful to businesses as possible.\n\nA 2003 World Health Organization (WHO) report concluded that about 30% of reported food poisoning outbreaks in the WHO European Region occur in private homes. According to the WHO and CDC, in the USA alone, annually, there are 76 million cases of foodborne illness leading to 325,000 hospitalizations and 5,000 deaths.\n\nIn 1963, the WHO and FAO published the Codex Alimentarius which serves as an guideline to food safety.\n\nHowever, according to Unit 04 - Communication of Health & Consumers Directorate-General of the European Commission (SANCO):\n\"The Codex, while being recommendations for voluntary application by members, Codex standards serve in many cases as a basis for national legislation. The reference made to Codex food safety standards in the World Trade Organizations' Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary measures (SPS Agreement) means that Codex has far reaching implications for resolving trade disputes. WTO members that wish to apply stricter food safety measures than those set by Codex may be required to justify these measures scientifically.\"\nSo, an agreement made in 2003, signed by all member states, inclusive all EU, in the codex Stan Codex 240 – 2003 for coconut milk, sulphite containing additives like E223 and E 224 are allowed till 30 mg/kg, does NOT mean, they are allowed into the EU, see Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF) entries from Denmark: 2012.0834; 2011.1848; en 2011.168, \"sulphite unauthorised in coconut milk from Thailand \". Same for polysorbate E 435: see 2012.0838 from Denmark, unauthorised polysorbates in coconut milk and, 2007.AIC from France. Only for the latter the EU amended its regulations with (EU) No 583/2012 per 2 July 2012 to allow this additive, already used for decades and absolutely necessary.\n\nFood Standards Australia New Zealand requires all food businesses to implement food safety systems. These systems are designed to ensure food is safe to consume and halt the increasing incidence of food poisoning, and they include basic food safety training for at least one person in each business.\nFood safety training is delivered in various forms by, among other organisations, Registered Training Organizations (RTOs), after which staff are issued a nationally recognised unit of competency code on their certificate.\nBasic food safety training includes:\n\n\nFood safety standards and requirements are set out at the national level in the Food Standards Code, and brought Into force in each state by state-based Acts and Regulations. Legislation means that people responsible for selling or serving unsafe food may be liable for heavy fines.\n\nFood safety is a growing concern in Chinese agriculture. The Chinese government oversees agricultural production as well as the manufacture of food packaging, containers, chemical additives, drug production, and business regulation. In recent years, the Chinese government attempted to consolidate food regulation with the creation of the State Food and Drug Administration in 2003, and officials have also been under increasing public and international pressure to solve food safety problems. However, it appears that regulations are not well known by the trade. Labels used for \"green\" food, \"organic\" food and \"pollution-free\" food are not well recognized by traders and many are unclear about their meaning. A survey by the World Bank found that supermarket managers had difficulty in obtaining produce that met safety requirements and found that a high percentage of produce did not comply with established standards.\n\nTraditional marketing systems, whether in China or the rest of Asia, presently provide little motivation or incentive for individual farmers to make improvements to either quality or safety as their produce tends to get grouped together with standard products as it progresses through the marketing channel. Direct linkages between farmer groups and traders or ultimate buyers, such as supermarkets, can help avoid this problem. Governments need to improve the condition of many markets through upgrading management and reinvesting market fees in physical infrastructure. Wholesale markets need to investigate the feasibility of developing separate sections to handle fruits and vegetables that meet defined safety and quality standards.\n\nThe parliament of the European Union (EU) makes legislation in the form of directives and regulations, many of which are mandatory for member states and which therefore must be incorporated into individual countries' national legislation. As a very large organisation that exists to remove barriers to trade between member states, and into which individual member states have only a proportional influence, the outcome is often seen as an excessively bureaucratic 'one size fits all' approach. However, in relation to food safety the tendency to err on the side of maximum protection for the consumer may be seen as a positive benefit. The EU parliament is informed on food safety matters by the European Food Safety Authority.\n\nIndividual member states may also have other legislation and controls in respect of food safety, provided that they do not prevent trade with other states, and can differ considerably in their internal structures and approaches to the regulatory control of food safety.\n\nFrom 13 December 2014, new legislation - the EU Food Information for Consumers Regulation 1169/2011 - require food businesses to provide allergy information on food sold unpackaged, in for example catering outlets, deli counters, bakeries and sandwich bars.\n\nAgence nationale de sécurité sanitaire de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail (anses) is a French governmental agency dealing with food safety.\n\nThe Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection (BMEL) is a Federal Ministry of the Federal Republic of Germany.\nHistory: Founded as Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Foresting in 1949, this name did not change until 2001. Then the name changed to Federal Ministry of Consumer Protection, Food and Agriculture. At 22 November 2005, the name got changed again to its current state: Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection. The reason for this last change was that all the resorts should get equal ranking which was achieved by sorting the resorts alphabetically.\nVision: A balanced and healthy diet with safe food, distinct consumer rights and consumer information for various areas of life, and a strong and sustainable agriculture as well as perspectives for our rural areas are important goals of the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection (BMELV).\nThe Federal Office of Consumer Protection and Food Safety is under the control of the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection. It exercises several duties, with which it contributes to safer food and thereby intensifies health-based consumer protection in Germany. Food can be manufactured and sold within Germany without a special permission, as long as it does not cause any damage on consumers’ health and meets the general standards set by the legislation. However, manufacturers, carriers, importers and retailers are responsible for the food they pass into circulation. They are obliged to ensure and document the safety and quality of their food with the use of in-house control mechanisms.\n\nIn Hong Kong SAR, the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department is in charge of ensuring food sold is safe and fit for consumption.\n\nIn Hungary, the National Food Chain Safety Office controls the food business operators including agricultural producers, food processors, retailers, caterers, input material suppliers and private laboratories. Its activities also cover risk assessment, risk communication and related research.\n\nFood Safety and Standards Authority of India, established under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, is the regulating body related to food safety and laying down of standards of food in India.\n\nThe New Zealand Food Safety Authority (NZFSA), or Te Pou Oranga Kai O Aotearoa is the New Zealand government body responsible for food safety. NZFSA is also the controlling authority for imports and exports of food and food-related products. The NZFSA as of 2012 is now a division of the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) and is no longer its own organization.\n\nThe Pure Food Ordinance 1960 consolidates and amends the law in relation to the preparation and the sale of foods. Its aim is to ensure purity of food being supplied to people in the market and, therefore, provides for preventing adulteration.\n\nPakistan Hotels and Restaurant Act, 1976 applies to all hotels and restaurants in Pakistan and seeks to control and regulate the standard of service(s) by hotels and restaurants. In addition to other provisions, under section 22(2), the sale of food or beverages that are contaminated, not prepared hygienically or served in utensils that are not hygienic or clean is an offense.\n\nKorea Food & Drug Administration (KFDA) is working for food safety since 1945. It is part of the Government of South Korea.\n\nIOAS-Organic Certification Bodies Registered in KFDA: \"Organic\" or related claims can be labelled on food products when organic certificates are considered as valid by KFDA. KFDA admits organic certificates which can be issued by 1) IFOAM (International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movement) accredited certification bodies 2) Government accredited certification bodies – 328 bodies in 29 countries have been registered in KFDA.\n\nFood Import Report: According to Food Import Report, it is supposed to report or register what you import. Competent authority is as follows:\n\nNational Institute of Food and Drug Safety Evaluation (NIFDS) is functioning as well.\nThe National Institute of Food and Drug Safety Evaluation is a national organization for toxicological tests and research. Under the Korea Food & Drug Administration, the Institute performs research on toxicology, pharmacology, and risk analysis of foods, drugs, and their additives. The Institute strives primarily to understand important biological triggering mechanisms and improve assessment methods of human exposure, sensitivities, and risk by (1) conducting basic, applied, and policy research that closely examines biologically triggering harmful effects on the regulated products such as foods, food additives, and drugs, and operating the national toxicology program for the toxicological test development and inspection of hazardous chemical substances assessments. The Institute ensures safety by investigation and research on safety by its own researchers, contract research by external academicians and research centers.\n\nIn Taiwan, the Ministry of Health and Welfare in charge of Food and Drug Safety, also evaluate the catering industry to maintenance the food product quality. Currently, US$29.01 million of budget is allocated each year for food safety-related efforts.\n\nIn the UK the Food Standards Agency is an independent government department responsible for food safety and hygiene across the UK. They work with businesses to help them produce safe food, and with local authorities to enforce food safety regulations. In 2006 food hygiene legislation changed and new requirements came into force. The main requirement resulting from this change is that if you own or run a food business in the UK, you must have a documented Food Safety Management System, which is based on the principles of Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point HACCP.\n\nThe US food system is regulated by numerous federal, state and local officials. Since 1906 tremendous progress has been made in producing safer foods as can be seen in the section below. Still, it has been criticized as lacking in \"organization, regulatory tools, and not addressing food borne illness.\"\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration publishes the Food Code, a model set of guidelines and procedures that assists food control jurisdictions by providing a scientifically sound technical and legal basis for regulating the retail and food service industries, including restaurants, grocery stores and institutional foodservice providers such as nursing homes. Regulatory agencies at all levels of government in the United States use the FDA Food Code to develop or update food safety rules in their jurisdictions that are consistent with national food regulatory policy. According to the FDA, 48 of 56 states and territories, representing 79% of the US population, have adopted food codes patterned after one of the five versions of the Food Code, beginning with the 1993 edition.\n\nIn the United States, federal regulations governing food safety are fragmented and complicated, according to a February 2007 report from the Government Accountability Office. There are 15 agencies sharing oversight responsibilities in the food safety system, although the two primary agencies are the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), which is responsible for the safety of meat, poultry, and processed egg products, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which is responsible for virtually all other foods.\n\nThe Food Safety and Inspection Service has approximately 7,800 inspection program personnel working in nearly 6,200 federally inspected meat, poultry and processed egg establishments. FSIS is charged with administering and enforcing the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, the Egg Products Inspection Act, portions of the Agricultural Marketing Act, the Humane Slaughter Act, and the regulations that implement these laws. FSIS inspection program personnel inspect every animal before slaughter, and each carcass after slaughter to ensure public health requirements are met. In fiscal year (FY) 2008, this included about 50 billion pounds of livestock carcasses, about 59 billion pounds of poultry carcasses, and about 4.3 billion pounds of processed egg products. At US borders, they also inspected 3.3 billion pounds of imported meat and poultry products.\n\nRecognition of food safety issues and attempts to address them began after Upton Sinclair published the novel \"The Jungle\" in 1906. It was a fictional account of the lives of immigrants in the industrial cities in the US around this time. Sinclair spent nine months undercover as an employee in a Chicago meat plant doing research. The book inadvertently raised public concern about food safety and sanatization of the Chicago meat packing industry. Upon reading \"The Jungle\", President Theodore Roosevelt called on Congress to pass the Pure Food and Drug Act and the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA), which passed in 1906 and 1907 respectively. These laws were the first to address food safety in the US Misbranding and adulteration were defined as they concerned food additives and truth in labeling. Food preservatives such as formaldehyde and borax used to disguise unsanitary production processes were also addressed.\n\nThe first test and major court battle involving the Pure Food and Drug Act was \"United States v. Forty Barrels & Twenty Kegs of Coca-Cola\", an attempt to outlaw Coca-Cola due to its excessive caffeine content. The Meat Inspection Act led to the formation of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Between 1906 and 1938, acts were created that monitored food coloration additives, and other chemical additives such as preservatives, as well as food labeling and food marketing.\n\nDuring the winter of 1924–1925, the worst food-borne illness to date in the US occurred because of improper handling of oysters. This produced a typhoid fever epidemic, and food-borne illness outbreaks gained national attention. Unfortunately, it was not until 1969 that the FDA began sanitization programs specifically for shellfish and milk, and began its focus and implementation on the food service industry as a whole.\nIn 1970 the Center for Disease Control (CDC) began keeping records on food-borne illness deaths. This was the beginning of effective record keeping that could be used to control and prevent similar outbreaks in the future. The first major food recall in the US was caused by canned mushrooms in 1973. This outbreak of botulism produced the National Botulism Surveillance System. This system collected the data on all confirmed cases of botulism in the US This led to processing regulations for low-acid foods to ensure proper heat treating of canned foods. The Jack in the Box \"E. coli\" outbreak of 1993 led the Clinton administration to put $43 million into the Food Safety Initiative to create many of the common specific regulations in place today. This initiative produced regulations on seafood, meat, poultry, and shell-eggs. This initiative produced a program for DNA fingerprinting to help track outbreaks and to determine their source. It also called for a cooperative detection and response effort between the CDC, FDA, USDA and local agencies called FoodNet. \n\nIn 2011 the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) produced what is considered the most significant food safety legislation in over 70 years. The significant difference between this and previous acts was that it shifted to focus from response and containment of food-borne disease outbreaks to their prevention. This act is still in the early implementation phase but gives the FDA authority to regulate the way foods are grown, processed, and harvested.\n\nThere have been concerns over the efficacy of safety practices and food industry pressure on US regulators. A study reported by Reuters found that \"the food industry is jeopardizing US public health by withholding information from food safety investigators or pressuring regulators to withdraw or alter policy designed to protect consumers\". A survey found that 25% of US government inspectors and scientists surveyed have experienced during the past year corporate interests forcing their food safety agency to withdraw or to modify agency policy or action that protects consumers. Scientists have observed that management undercuts field inspectors who stand up for food safety against industry pressure. According to Dr. Dean Wyatt, a USDA veterinarian who oversees federal slaughterhouse inspectors, \"Upper level management does not adequately support field inspectors and the actions they take to protect the food supply. Not only is there lack of support, but there's outright obstruction, retaliation and abuse of power.\" A growing number of food and beverage manufacturers are improving food safety standards by incorporating a food safety management system which automates all steps in the food quality management process.\n\nA number of US states have their own meat inspection programs that substitute for USDA inspection for meats that are sold only in-state. Certain state programs have been criticized for undue leniency to bad practices.\n\nHowever, other state food safety programs supplement, rather than replace, Federal inspections, generally with the goal of increasing consumer confidence in the state's produce. For example, state health departments have a role in investigating outbreaks of food-borne disease bacteria, as in the case of the 2006 outbreak of (a pathogenic strain of the ordinarily harmless bacteria, \"E. coli\") from processed spinach. Health departments also promote better food processing practices to eliminate these threats.\n\nIn addition to the US Food and Drug Administration, several states that are major producers of fresh fruits and vegetables (including California, Arizona and Florida) have their own state programs to test produce for pesticide residues.\n\nThe food system represents one of the most significant components of the U.S. economy. It affects the social and economic well-being of nearly all Americans and plays a significant role in the well-being of the global community. The U.S. food and fiber system accounted for 18 percent of employment 4 percent of imported goods, and 11 percent of exports in 2011. The relative economic contribution of each various step of the U.S. food supply chain has changed significantly over the past 100 years. Generally speaking, the economic importance of the farm production subsector has steadily diminished relative to the shares of the other components of the food supply chain. \n\nRestaurants and other retail food establishments fall under state law and are regulated by state or local health departments. Typically these regulations require official inspections of specific design features, best food-handling practices, and certification of food handlers. In some places a letter grade or numerical score must be prominently posted following each inspection. In some localities, inspection deficiencies and remedial action are posted on the Internet. In addition, states may maintain and enforce their own model of the FDA Food Code. For example California maintains the California Retail Food Code (CalCode), which is part of the Health and Safety Code and is based on most current and safe food handling practices in the retail industry.\n\nThe Vietnam Food Administration is reafor managing food hygiene, safety, and quality and has made significant progress since its establishment in 1999. Food safety remains a high priority in Vietnam with the growth of export markets and increasing food imports raising the need to rapidly build capacity of the Food Administration in order to reduce threats of foodborne disease. The Food Administration has demonstrated commitment to the food safety challenges it faces, and has embarked on an innovative capacity building activity with technical assistance from the World Health Organization.\n\nFoodstuffs in the UK have one of two labels to indicate the nature of the deterioration of the product and any subsequent health issues. EHO Food Hygiene certification is required to prepare and distribute food. While there is no specified expiry date of such a qualification the changes in legislation it is suggested to update every five years.\n\nBest before indicates a future date beyond which the food product \"may\" lose quality in terms of taste or texture amongst others, but does not imply any serious health problems if food is consumed beyond this date (within reasonable limits).\n\nUse by indicates a legal date beyond which it is not permissible to sell a food product (usually one that deteriorates fairly rapidly after production) due to the potential serious nature of consumption of pathogens. Leeway is sometimes provided by producers in stating display until dates so that products are not at their limit of safe consumption on the actual date stated (this latter is voluntary and not subject to regulatory control). This allows for the variability in production, storage and display methods.\n\nWith the exception of infant formula and baby foods which must be withdrawn by their expiration date, Federal law does not require expiration dates. For all other foods, except dairy products in some states, freshness dating is strictly voluntary on the part of manufacturers. In response to consumer demand, perishable foods are typically labelled with a Sell by date. It is up to the consumer to decide how long after the Sell by date a package is usable. Other common dating statements are Best if used by, Use-by date, Expiration date, Guaranteed fresh <date>, and Pack date.\n\nGuide to Food Labelling and Other Information Requirements: This guide provides background information on the general labelling requirements in the Code. The information in this guide applies both to food for retail sale and to food for catering purposes. Foods for catering purposes means those foods for use in restaurants, canteens, schools, caterers or self-catering institutions, where food is offered for immediate consumption. Labelling and information requirements in the new Code apply both to food sold or prepared for sale in Australia and New Zealand and food imported into Australia and New Zealand.\nWarning and Advisory Declarations, Ingredient Labelling, Date Marking, Nutrition Information Requirements, Legibility Requirements for Food Labels, Percentage Labelling, Information Requirements for Foods Exempt from Bearing a Label.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41983826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41983826", "title": "Franciscan Hospitaller Sisters of the Immaculate Conception", "text": "Franciscan Hospitaller Sisters of the Immaculate Conception\n\nThe Franciscan Hospitaller Sisters of the Immaculate Conception are members of a Roman Catholic religious institute of consecrated women, which was founded in Portugal in 1871. They follow the Rule of the Third Order Regular of St. Francis. and, as the term “hospitaller” indicates, focus their ministries on a spirit of medical care. Their charism emphasizes hospitality and service under the model of the Good Samaritan. In this congregation, the postnominal initials used after each Sister's name is \"F.H.I.C.\"\n\nThe Sisters’ mission, as expressed by their foundress, Mother Maria Clara, is “to do good where good needs to be done.” These words have paved the way for a large variety of apostolates including education, catechesis, healthcare, pastoral work, assisting the elderly, missionary work, running orphanages, assisting immigrants, and assisting the homeless. The local needs where each convent is located oftentimes determine the apostolates of the sisters who live there, although generally each sister is also able to choose her preferred field of ministry to carry out. Ordinarily the habits that the sisters wear are grey, but those sisters working in the healthcare field don white habits while they are working. The daily prayer life of the sisters in this order consists of Mass, an hour of Eucharistic adoration, Liturgy of the Hours, and the rosary.\n\nOn June 15, 1843 Libânia do Carmo Galvão Mexia de Moura Telles de Albuquerque was born in Amadora, Portugal. This third child of seven in a noble and devout Christian family had a very happy childhood until 1856 and 1857 when she suddenly lost her parents to a cholera and yellow fever epidemic. At age 14 she entering a boarding school for orphaned nobility until the Daughters of Charity who taught her were expelled from Portugal in 1882 due to the anticlerical laws then passed.\n\nFor five years Telles e Albuquerque then lived in the palace of the Marquis of Valada. In 1869 at the age of 26, she entered religious life as a Capuchin nun, receiving the name \"Sister Maria Clara of the Infant Jesus\". She soon desired to form a new community that would serve the people of Portugal who were wounded in a time of political unrest. Supported by Fr. Raimundo dos Anjos Beirão, she traveled to Calais, France, for her novitiate formation under the Franciscan Hospitaller Sisters of that city, preparing to found a new community after her novitiate has been completed. After professing her vows in France on April 14, 1871, she founded the first house of her new community, called the \"Congregation of the Hospitaller Sisters of the Poor for the Love of God\", in Lisbon on May 3, 1871. Only five years later, on March 27, 1876, the congregation was approved by Pope Pius IX.\n\nDespite many trials, the new religious institute continued to grow rapidly with more and more convents being established. The large number of sick, poor, and orphaned people found relief in the houses which the Sisters opened to shelter and care for them. In 1886 the Sisters expanded their service to the Portuguese colony of Goa, now part of India.\n\nOn December 1, 1899, Mother Maria Clara died. Her remains are in the crypt of the chapel of the general motherhouse in Lisbon, where many people still come to pray and ask her intercession. She was beatified on May 21, 2011 by Pope Benedict XVI, and her canonization process continues. \nThis international congregation is now represented in fifteen countries. \n\nIn the United States, the sisters are located only in the state of California, residing in the Dioceses of San Jose, Fresno, and Monterey. The Hospitaller Sisters first came to the United States in 1960 in order to aid Portuguese immigrants. These sisters ran and taught in schools, but their education and catechesis work has come to consist of teaching Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults and Faith Formation, or Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. The majority of the California sisters now are involved in healthcare. In Los Banos, where eleven sisters now live, the sisters run a non-profit house of residential care and skilled nursing for the elderly. This facility, called New Bethany, after the village of Bethany that Jesus stayed in, was opened in 1999. The sisters attend to their patients' physical needs, and to their spiritual needs through frequent public prayer and liturgy. The sisters in the three California houses also visit the sick and bring them Holy Communion. The United States province is the smallest of the fifteen CONFHIC provinces worldwide, but has had a renewed interest in their lifestyle amongst young women who are discerning a religious vocation. The convent in San Jose is designated as the house of formation for American vocations. \n"}
{"id": "24462555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462555", "title": "Gold Humanism Honor Society", "text": "Gold Humanism Honor Society\n\nThe Gold Humanism Honor Society (GHHS) is a national honor society that honors senior medical students, residents, role-model physician teachers and other exemplars recognized for demonstrated excellence in clinical care, leadership, compassion and dedication to service. It was created by the Arnold P. Gold Foundation for Humanism in Medicine.\n\nThe purpose of GHHS is to recognize the importance of humanistic care and to honor physicians who achieve this excellence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18006737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18006737", "title": "Gonorrhea", "text": "Gonorrhea\n\nGonorrhea, also spelled gonorrhoea, is a sexually transmitted infection (STI) caused by the bacterium \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\". Many people have no symptoms. Men may have burning with urination, discharge from the penis, or testicular pain. Women may have burning with urination, vaginal discharge, vaginal bleeding between periods, or pelvic pain. Complications in women include pelvic inflammatory disease and in men include inflammation of the epididymis. If untreated, gonorrhea can spread to joints or heart valves.\nGonorrhea is spread through sexual contact with an infected person. This includes oral, anal, and vaginal sex. It can also spread from a mother to a child during birth. Diagnosis is by testing the urine, urethra in males, or cervix in females. Testing all women who are sexually active and less than 25 years of age each year as well as those with new sexual partners is recommended; the same recommendation applies in men who have sex with men (MSM).\nGonorrhea can be prevented with the use of condoms, having sex with only one person who is uninfected, and by not having sex. Treatment is usually with ceftriaxone by injection and azithromycin by mouth. Resistance has developed to many previously used antibiotics and higher doses of ceftriaxone are occasionally required. Retesting is recommended three months after treatment. Sexual partners from the last 2 months should also be treated.\nGonorrhea affects about 0.8% of women and 0.6% of men. An estimated 33 to 106 million new cases occur each year, out of the 498 million new cases of curable STI – which also includes syphilis, chlamydia, and trichomoniasis. Infections in women most commonly occur when they are young adults. In 2015, it caused about 700 deaths. Descriptions of the disease date as far back as the Old Testament.\n\nHalf of women with gonorrhea do not have symptoms, whereas others have vaginal discharge, lower abdominal pain, or pain with sexual intercourse associated with inflammation of the uterine cervix. Most infected men with symptoms have inflammation of the penile urethra associated with a burning sensation during urination and discharge from the penis. In men, discharge with or without burning occurs in half of all cases and is the most common symptom of the infection. Men and women can acquire gonorrhea of the throat from performing oral sex on an infected partner, usually a male partner. Such infection does not produce symptoms in 90% of cases, and produces a sore throat in the remaining 10%. In advanced cases, gonorrhea may cause a general feeling of tiredness similar to other infections. It is also possible for an individual to have an allergic reaction to the bacteria, in which case any appearing symptoms will be greatly intensified.\n\nThe incubation period is 2 to 14 days, with most symptoms appearing between 4 and 6 days after infection. Rarely, gonorrhea may cause skin lesions and joint infection (pain and swelling in the joints) after traveling through the blood stream (see below). Very rarely it may settle in the heart causing endocarditis or in the spinal column causing meningitis (both are more likely among individuals with suppressed immune systems, however).\n\nHaving a case of gonorrhea is associated with an increased risk of developing prostate cancer.\n\nGonorrhea is caused by the bacterium \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\". Previous infection does not confer immunity - a person who has been infected can become infected again by exposure to someone who is infected. Infected persons may be able to infect others repeatedly without having any signs or symptoms of their own.\n\nThe infection is usually spread from one person to another through vaginal, oral, or anal sex. Men have a 20% risk of getting the infection from a single act of vaginal intercourse with an infected woman. The risk for men that have sex with men (MSM) is higher. Active MSM may get a penile infection, while passive MSM may get anorectal gonorrhea. Women have a 60–80% risk of getting the infection from a single act of vaginal intercourse with an infected man. A pregnant women can pass on the infection to her unborn infant.\n\nA mother may transmit gonorrhea to her newborn during childbirth; when affecting the infant's eyes, it is referred to as ophthalmia neonatorum. It may be able to spread through the objects contaminated with body fluid from an infected person. The bacteria typically does not survive long outside the body, typically dying within minutes to hours.\n\nTraditionally, gonorrhea was diagnosed with Gram stain and culture; however, newer polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based testing methods are becoming more common. In those failing initial treatment, culture should be done to determine sensitivity to antibiotics.\n\nTests that use polymerase chain reaction (PCR, aka nucleic acid amplification) to identify genes unique to \"N. gonorrhoeae\" are recommended for screening and diagnosis of gonorrhea infection. These PCR-based tests require a sample of urine, urethral swabs, or cervical/vaginal swabs. Culture (growing colonies of bacteria in order to isolate and identify them) and Gram-stain (staining of bacterial cell walls to reveal morphology) can also be used to detect the presence of \"N. gonorrhoeae\" in all specimen types except urine.\n\nIf Gram-negative, oxidase-positive diplococci are visualized on direct Gram stain of urethral pus (male genital infection), no further testing is needed to establish the diagnosis of gonorrhea infection. However, in the case of female infection direct Gram stain of cervical swabs is not useful because the \"N. gonorrhoeae\" organisms are less concentrated in these samples. The chances of false positives are increased as Gram-negative diplococci native to the normal vaginal flora cannot be distinguished from \"N. gonorrhoeae.\" Thus, cervical swabs must be cultured under the conditions described above. If oxidase positive, Gram-negative diplococci are isolated from a culture of a cervical/vaginal swab specimen, then the diagnosis is made. Culture is especially useful for diagnosis of infections of the throat, recutum, eyes, blood, or joints – areas where PCR-based tests are not well established in all labs. Culture is also useful for antimicrobial sensitivity testing, treatment failure, and epidemiological purposes (outbreaks, surveillance).\n\nIn patients who may have disseminated gonococcal infection (DGI), all possible mucosal sites should be cultured (e.g., pharynx, cervix, urethra, rectum). Three sets of blood cultures should also be obtained. Synovial fluid should be collected in cases of septic arthritis.\n\nAll people testing positive for gonorrhea should be tested for other sexually transmitted diseases such as chlamydia, syphilis, and human immunodeficiency virus. Studies have found co-infection with chlamydia ranging from 46 to 54% in young people with gonorrhea. For this reason, gonorrhea and chlamydia testing are often combined. People diagnosed with gonorrhea infection have a fivefold increase risk of HIV transmission. Additionally, infected persons who are HIV positive are more likely to shed and transmit HIV to uninfected partners during an episode of gonorrhea.\n\nThe United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends screening for gonorrhea in women at increased risk of infection, which includes all sexually active women younger than 25 years. Extragenital gonorrhea and chlamydia are highest in men who have sex with men (MSM). Additionally, the USPSTF also recommends routine screening in people who have previously tested positive for gonorrhea or have multiple sexual partners and individuals who use condoms inconsistently, provide sexual favors for money, or have sex while under the influence of alcohol or drugs.\n\nScreening for gonorrhea in women who are (or intend to become) pregnant, and who are found to be at high risk for sexually transmitted diseases, is recommended as part of prenatal care in the United States.\n\nAs with most sexually transmitted diseases, the risk of infection can be reduced significantly by the correct use of condoms and can be removed almost entirely by limiting sexual activities to a mutually monogamous relationship with an uninfected person.\n\nThose previously infected are encouraged to return for follow up care to make sure that the infection has been eliminated. In addition to the use of phone contact, the use of email and text messaging have been found to improve the re-testing for infection.\n\nNewborn babies coming through the birth canal are given erythromycin ointment in the eyes to prevent blindness from infection. The underlying gonorrhea should be treated; if this is done then usually a good prognosis will follow.\n\nAs of 2010, injectable ceftriaxone is one of the few effective antibiotics. This is typically given in combination with either azithromycin or doxycycline. As of 2015 and 2016 the CDC and WHO only recommends both ceftriaxone and azithromycin. Because of increasing rates of antibiotic resistance local susceptibility patterns must be taken into account when deciding on treatment.\n\nAdults may have eyes infected with gonorrhoea and require proper personal hygiene and medications. Among persons in the United States between 14 and 39 years of age, 46% of people with gonorrheal infection also have chlamydial infection.\n\nIt is recommended that sexual partners be tested and potentially treated. One option for treating sexual partners of people infected is patient-delivered partner therapy (PDPT), which involves providing prescriptions or medications to the person to take to his/her partner without the health care provider's first examining him/her.\n\nThe United States' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) currently recommend that individuals who have been diagnosed and treated for gonorrhea avoid sexual contact with others until at least one week past the final day of treatment in order to prevent the spread of the bacterium.\n\nMany antibiotics that were once effective including penicillin, tetracycline, and fluoroquinolones are no longer recommended because of high rates of resistance. Resistance to cefixime has reached a level such that it is no longer recommended as a first-line agent in the United States, and if it is used a person should be tested again after a week to determine whether the infection still persists. Cases of resistance to ceftriaxone have been reported but are still rare, though public health officials are concerned that an emerging pattern of resistance may predict a global epidemic. The UK's Health Protection Agency reported that 2011 saw a slight drop in gonorrhea antibiotic resistance, the first in 5 years.\n\nGonorrhea if left untreated may last for weeks or months with higher risks of complications. One of the complications of gonorrhea is systemic dissemination resulting in skin pustules or petechia, septic arthritis, meningitis, or endocarditis. This occurs in between 0.6 and 3% of infected women and 0.4 and 0.7% of infected men.\n\nIn men, inflammation of the epididymis, prostate gland, and urethra can result from untreated gonorrhea. In women, the most common result of untreated gonorrhea is pelvic inflammatory disease. Other complications include inflammation of the tissue surrounding the liver, a rare complication associated with Fitz-Hugh–Curtis syndrome; septic arthritis in the fingers, wrists, toes, and ankles; septic abortion; chorioamnionitis during pregnancy; neonatal or adult blindness from conjunctivitis; and infertility. Men who have had a gonorrhea infection have an increased risk of getting prostate cancer.\n\nAbout 88 million cases of gonorrhea occur each year, out of the 448 million new cases of curable STI each year – that also includes syphilis, chlamydia and trichomoniasis. In 2013, it caused about 3,200 deaths, up from 2,300 in 1990.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, 196 per 100,000 males 20 to 24 years old and 133 per 100,000 females 16 to 19 years old were diagnosed in 2005. In 2013, the CDC estimated that more than 820,000 people in the United States get a new gonorrheal infection each year. Fewer than half of these infections are reported to CDC. In 2011, 321,849 cases of gonorrhea were reported to the CDC. After the implementation of a national gonorrhea control program in the mid-1970s, the national gonorrhea rate declined from 1975 to 1997. After a small increase in 1998, the gonorrhea rate has decreased slightly since 1999. In 2004, the rate of reported gonorrheal infections was 113. 5 per 100,000 persons.\n\nIn the US, it is the second-most-common bacterial sexually transmitted infections; chlamydia remains first. According to the CDC African Americans are most affected by gonorrhea, accounting for 69% of all gonorrhea cases in 2010.\n\nThe World Health Organization warned in 2017 of the spread of untreatable strains of gonorrhea, following analysis of at least three cases in Japan, France and Spain, which survived all antibiotic treatment.\n\nSome scholars translate the biblical terms \"zav\" (for a male) and \"zavah\" (for a female) as gonorrhea.\n\nIt has been suggested that mercury was used as a treatment for gonorrhea. Surgeons' tools on board the recovered English warship the \"Mary Rose\" included a syringe that, according to some, was used to inject the mercury via the urinary meatus into any unfortunate crewman suffering from gonorrhea. The name \"the clap\", in reference to the disease, is recorded as early as the sixteenth century.\n\nIn 1854, Dr. Wilhelm Gollmann addressed gonorrhea in his book, \"Homeopathic Guide to all Diseases Urinary and Sexual Organs\". He noted that the disease was common in prostitutes and homosexuals in large cities. Gollmann recommended the following as cures: aconite to cure \"shooting pains with soreness and inflammation;\" mercury \"for stitching pain with purulent discharge;\" \"nux vomica\" and sulphur \"when the symptoms are complicated with hemorrhoids and stricture of the rectum. Other remedies include argentum, \"aurum\" (gold), belladonna, calcarea, ignatia, phosphorus, and sepia.\n\nSilver nitrate was one of the widely used drugs in the 19th century. However, It became replaced by Protargol. Arthur Eichengrün invented this type of colloidal silver, which was marketed by Bayer from 1897 on. The silver-based treatment was used until the first antibiotics came into use in the 1940s.\n\nThe exact time of onset of gonorrhea as prevalent disease or epidemic cannot be accurately determined from the historical record. One of the first reliable notations occurs in the Acts of the (English) Parliament. In 1161, this body passed a law to reduce the spread of \"...the perilous infirmity of burning\". The symptoms described are consistent with, but not diagnostic of, gonorrhea. A similar decree was passed by Louis IX in France in 1256, replacing regulation with banishment. Similar symptoms were noted at the siege of Acre by Crusaders.\n\nCoincidental to, or dependent on, the appearance of a gonorrhea epidemic, several changes occurred in European medieval society. Cities hired public health doctors to treat afflicted patients without right of refusal. Pope Boniface rescinded the requirement that physicians complete studies for the lower orders of the Catholic priesthood.\n\nMedieval public health physicians in the employ of their cities were required to treat prostitutes infected with the \"burning\", as well as lepers and other epidemic victims. After Pope Boniface completely secularized the practice of medicine, physicians were more willing to treat a sexually transmitted disease.\n\nA vaccine for gonorrhea has been developed that is effective in mice. It will not be available for human use until further studies have demonstrated that it is both safe and effective in the human population. Development of a vaccine has been complicated by the ongoing evolution of resistant strains and antigenic variation (the ability of \"N. gonorrhoeae\" to disguise itself with different surface markers to evade the immune system).\n\nAs N. gonorrhoeae is closely related to N. meningitidis and they have 80–90% homology in their genetic sequences some cross-protection by meningococcal vaccines is plausible. A study published in 2017 showed that MeNZB group B meningococcal vaccine provided a partial protection against gonorrhea. The vaccine efficiency was calculated to be 31%.\n"}
{"id": "18348855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18348855", "title": "Harmful algal bloom", "text": "Harmful algal bloom\n\nA harmful algal bloom (HAB) are organisms that can severely lower oxygen levels in natural waters, killing marine life. Some HABs are associated with algae-produced toxins. Blooms can last from a few days to many months. After the bloom dies, the microbes which decompose the dead algae use up even more of the oxygen, which can create fish die-offs. When these zones of depleted oxygen cover a large area for an extended period of time, they are referred to as dead zones, where neither fish nor plants are able to survive.\nHABs are induced by an overabundance of nutrients in the water. The two most common nutrients are fixed nitrogen (nitrates, ammonia, urea) and phosphate. These nutrients are emitted by agriculture, other industries, excessive fertilizer use in urban/suburban areas and associated urban runoff. Higher water temperature and low circulation are contributing factors. HABs can cause significant harm to animals, the environment and economies. They have been increasing in size and frequency worldwide, a fact that many experts attribute to global climate change. The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) predicts more harmful blooms in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nHABs from cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) can appear as a foam, scum, or mat on or just below the surface of water and can take on various colors depending on their pigments. Cyanobacteria blooms in freshwater lakes or rivers may appear bright green, often with surface streaks which looks like floating paint. Similarly, red tides made up of dinoflagellates, also contain photosynthetic pigments that vary in color from green to brown to red.\n\nMost blooms occur in warm waters that have excessive nutrients. The harmful effects from such blooms is due to the toxins they produce or from using up oxygen in the water which can lead to fish die-offs.\n\nNot all algal blooms are harmful, however, with some only discoloring water, producing a smelly odor, or adding a bad taste to the water. Unfortunately, it is not possible to tell if a bloom is harmful from just appearances, since sampling and microscopic examination is required.\n\nThere are three main types of algae which can form into harmful algal blooms: cyanobacteria, dinoflagellates and diatoms. All three are made up of microscopic floating organisms which, like plants, can create their own food from sunlight by means of photosynthesis. That ability makes them an essential part of the food web for small fish and other organisms.\n\nHarmful algal blooms in freshwater lakes and rivers, or at estuaries, where rivers flow into the ocean, are caused by cyanobacteria, also known as \"blue-green algae\". They can produce hazardous toxins, such as microcystins, a neurotoxin which destroys nerve tissue of mammals. In high enough concentrations, water treatment plants may be unable to remove the toxin and will advise residents to avoid drinking tap water, as happened in Toledo, Ohio in August 2014.\n\nThey also cause harm by blocking the sunlight or by using up the oxygen needed by fish or plant life, which can lead to fish die-offs. When such oxygen-depleted water covers a large area for an extended period of time, it can become hypoxic, commonly called a dead zone. These dead zones can be the result of numerous different factors ranging from natural phenomenon to deliberate human interaction. These dead zones are not just limited to large bodies of fresh water as found in the great lakes, but are also prone to bodies of salt water as well.\n\nThe other types of algae are diatoms and dinoflagellates, found primarily in marine environments, such as ocean coastlines or bays, where they can also form algal blooms, commonly called red tides. Red tides, however, may be a natural phenomenon, although when they form close to coastlines or in estuaries. They can occur when warmer water, salinity, and nutrients reach certain levels, which then stimulates their growth. Most red tide algae are dinoflagellates. They are visible in water at a concentration of 1,000 algae cells per milliliter, while in dense blooms they can measure over 200,000 per milliliter.\n\nDiatoms produce domoic acid, another neurotoxin, which can cause seizures in higher vertebrates and birds as it concentrates up the food chain. Domoic acid readily accumulates in the bodies of shellfish, sardines, and anchovies, which if then eaten by sea lions, otters, cetaceans, birds or people, can affect the nervous system causing serious injury or death. In the summer of 2015, the state governments closed important shellfish fisheries in Washington, Oregon and California because of high concentrations of domoic acid in shellfish.\n\nAmong the causes of algal blooms are:\n\nClimate change, according to NOAA scientists, contributes to warmer waters which makes conditions more favorable for algae growth in more regions and farther north. Global warming is also considered a key factor for algal blooms in the Southern hemisphere, acknowledged by scientists in Australia. In general, still, warm, shallow water, combined with high-nutrient conditions in lakes or rivers, increases the risk of harmful algal blooms.\n\nNutrients enter freshwater or marine environments as surface runoff from agricultural pollution and urban runoff from fertilized lawns, golf courses and other landscaped properties; and from sewage treatment plants that lack nutrient control systems. Additional nutrients are introduced from atmospheric pollution. Coastal areas worldwide, especially wetlands and estuaries, coral reefs and swamps, are prone to being overloaded with those nutrients. Most of the large cities along the Mediterranean Sea, for example, discharge all of their sewage into the sea untreated. The same is true for most coastal developing countries.\n\nIn the U.S., surface runoff is the largest source of nutrients added to rivers and lakes, but is mostly unregulated under the federal Clean Water Act. Locally developed initiatives to reduce nutrient pollution are underway in various areas of the country, such as the Great Lakes region and the Chesapeake Bay. To help reduce algal blooms in Lake Erie, the State of Ohio presented a plan in 2016 to reduce phosphorus runoff.\n\nNatural water reservoirs in Texas have been threatened by anthropogenic activities due to large petroleum refineries and oil wells (i.e. emission and wastewater discharge), massive agricultural activities (i.e. pesticide release) and mining extractions (i.e. toxic wastewater) as well as natural phe-nomena involving frequent HABs events. For the first time in 1985, the state of Texas documented the presence of the \"p. parvum\" (golden alga) bloom along the Pecos River. This phenomenon has affected 33 reservoirs in Texas along major river systems, including the Brazos, Canadian, Rio Grande, Colorado, and Red River, and has resulted in the death of more than 27 million fish and caused tens of millions of dollars in damage.\n\nThe Chesapeake Bay, the largest estuary in the U.S., has suffered from repeated large algal blooms for decades due to chemical runoff from multiple sources, including 9 large rivers and 141 smaller streams and creeks in parts of six states. In addition, the water is quite shallow and only 1% of the waste entering it gets flushed into the ocean.\n\nBy weight, 60% of the phosphates entering the bay in 2003 were from sewage treatment plants, while 60% of its nitrates came from fertilizer runoff, farm animal waste, and the atmosphere. About 300 million pounds (140 Gg) of nitrates are added to the bay each year. The population increase in the bay watershed, from 3.7 million people in 1940 to 18 million in 2015 is also a major factor, as economic growth leads to the increased use of fertilizers and rising emissions of industrial waste.\n\nAs of 2015, the six states and the local governments in the Chesapeake watershed have upgraded their sewage treatment plants to control nutrient discharges. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that sewage treatment plant improvements in the Chesapeake region between 1985 and 2015 have prevented the discharge of 900 million pounds (410 Gg) of nutrients, with nitrogen discharges reduced by 57% and phosphorus by 75%. Agricultural and urban runoff pollution continue to be major sources of nutrients in the bay, and efforts to manage those problems are continuing throughout the watershed.\n\nRecent algae blooms in Lake Erie have been fed primarily by agricultural runoff and have led to warnings for some people in Canada and Ohio not to drink their water. The International Joint Commission has called on United States and Canada to drastically reduce phosphorus loads into Lake Erie to address the threat.\n\nGreen Bay has a dead zone caused by phosphorus pollution that appears to be getting worse.\n\nLake Okeechobee is an ideal habitat for cyanobacteria because it's shallow, sunny, and laden with nutrients from Florida's agriculture. The Okeechobee Waterway connects the lake to the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico through the St. Lucie River and the Caloosahatchee respectively. This means that harmful algal blooms are carried down the estuaries as water is released during the wet summer months. In July 2018 up to 90% of Lake Okeechobee was covered in algae. Water draining from the lake filled the region with a noxious odor and caused respiratory problems in some humans during the following month. To make matters worse, harmful red tide blooms are historically common on Florida's coasts during these same summer months. Cyanobacteria in the rivers die as they reach saltwater but their nitrogen fixation feeds the red tide on the coast. Areas at the mouth of the estuaries such as Cape Coral and Port St. Lucie therefore experience the compounded effects of both types of harmful algal bloom. Cleanup crews hired by authorities in Lee County - where the Caloosahatchee meets the Gulf of Mexico - removed more than 1700 tons of dead marine life in August 2018. \n\nOpen defecation is common in south Asia, but human waste is an often overlooked source of nutrient pollution in marine pollution modeling. When nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) contributed by human waste was included in models for Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan, the estimated N and P inputs to bodies of water increased one to two orders of magnitude compared to previous models. River export of nutrients to coastal seas increases coastal eutrophication potential (ICEP). The ICEP of the Godavari River is three times higher when N and P inputs from human waste are included.\n\nAs algal blooms grow, they deplete the oxygen in the water and block sunlight from reaching fish and plants. Such blooms can last from a few days to many months. With less light, plants beneath the bloom can die and fish can starve.Furthermore, the dense population of a bloom reduces oxygen saturation during the night by respiration. And when the algae eventually die off, the microbes which decompose the dead algae use up even more oxygen, which in turn causes more fish to die or leave the area. When oxygen continues to be depleted by blooms it can lead to hypoxic dead zones, where neither fish nor plants are able to survive. These dead zones in the case of the Chesapeake Bay, where they are a normal occurrence, are also suspected of being a major source of methane.\n\nThe negative impact on fish can be even more severe when they are confined to pens, as they are in fish farms. In 2007 a fish farm in British Columbia lost 260 tons of salmon as a result of blooms, and in 2016 a farm in Chile lost 23 million salmon after an algal bloom.\n\nAccording to NOAA, less than one percent of algal blooms produce hazardous toxins, such as microcystins. Although blue-green or other algae do not usually pose a direct threat to health, the toxins (poisons) which they produce are considered dangerous to humans, land animals, sea mammals, birds and fish when the toxins are ingested. The toxins are neurotoxins which destroy nerve tissue which can affect the nervous system, brain, and liver, and can lead to death. Tests have shown some toxins near blooms can be in the air and thereby be inhaled, which could affect health.\n\nThere is no treatment available for animals, including livestock cattle, if they drink from algal blooms where such toxins are present. The Florida Department of Health recommends that people and pets be kept away from algal blooms to avoid contact.\n\nEating fish or shellfish from lakes with a bloom nearby is not recommended. A study has shown that algal toxins may be the cause for as many as 60,000 intoxication cases in the world each year. This is due to the accumulation of potent toxins in shellfish that consume those algae and then these shellfish are later consumed by humans which may result in Amnesic shellfish poisoning, Diarrhetic shellfish poisoning, Neurotoxic shellfish poisoning, and Paralytic shellfish poisoning. Toxic paralytic shellfish poisoning in the Philippines during red tides has caused at least 120 deaths over a few decades. After a HAB in Monterey Bay, California, health officials warned people not to eat certain parts of anchovy, sardines, or crab caught in the bay. In 1987 a new illness emerged which was called amnesic shellfish poisoning. People who had eaten mussels from Prince Edward Island were found to have amnesic shellfish poisoning. The illness was caused by domoic acid, produced by a diatom found in the area where the mussels were cultivated. In 2015 most shellfish fisheries in Washington, Oregon and California were shut down because of high concentrations of toxic domoic acid in shellfish. People have been warned that inhaling vapors from waves or wind during a red tide may cause asthma attacks or lead to other respiratory ailments.\n\nAgricultural officials in Utah worried that even crops could become contaminated if irrigated with toxic water, although they admit that they can't measure contamination accurately because of so many variables in farming. They issued warnings to residents, however, out of caution.\n\nPersons are generally warned not to enter or drink water from algal blooms, or let their pets swim in the water since many pets have died from algal blooms. In at least one case, people began getting sick before warnings were issued.\n\nIn some locations visitors have been warned not to even touch the water. Boaters have been told that toxins in the water can be inhaled from the spray from wind or waves. Ocean beaches, lakes and rivers have been closed due to algal blooms. After a dog died in 2015 from swimming in a bloom in California's Russian River, officials likewise posted warnings for parts of the river. Boiling the water at home before drinking does not remove the toxins.\n\nScientists in Britain, which has seen a huge increase in toxic algae, suspect that drinking water from sources that have blue-green algae may contribute to Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s or Lou Gehrig’s Disease. Few water treatment plants regularly test for cyanobacterial toxins, however.\n\nIn August 2014 the city of Toledo, Ohio advised its 500,000 residents to not drink tap water as the high toxin level from an algal bloom in western Lake Erie had affected their water treatment plant's ability to treat the water to a safe level. The emergency required using bottled water for all normal uses except showering, which seriously affected public services and commercial businesses. The bloom returned in 2015 and was forecast again for the summer of 2016.\n\nIn 2004, a bloom in Kisumu Bay, which is the drinking water source for 500,000 people in Kisumu, Kenya, suffered from similar water contamination. In China, water was cut off to residents in 2007 due to an algal bloom in its third largest lake, which forced 2 million people to use bottled water. A smaller water shut-down in China affected 15,000 residents two years later at a different location. Australia in 2016 also had to cut off water to farmers.\n\nAlan Steinman of Grand Valley State University has explained that among the major causes for the algal blooms in general, and Lake Erie specifically, is because blue-green algae thrive with high nutrients, along with warm and calm water. Lake Erie is more prone to blooms because it has a high nutrient level and is shallow, which causes it to warm up more quickly during the summer.\n\nSymptoms from drinking toxic water can show up within a few hours after exposure. They can include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, or trigger headaches and gastrointestinal problems. Although rare, liver toxicity can cause death. Those symptoms can then lead to dehydration, another major concern. In high concentrations, the toxins in the algal waters when simply touched can cause skin rashes, irritate the eyes, nose, mouth or throat. Those with suspected symptoms are told to call a doctor if symptoms persist or they can't hold down fluids after 24 hours.\n\nThe hazards which accompany harmful algal blooms have hindered visitors' enjoyment of beaches and lakes in places in the U.S. such as Florida, California Vermont, and Utah. Persons hoping to enjoy their vacations or days off have been kept away to the detriment of local economies. Lakes and rivers in North Dakota, Minnesota, Utah, California and Ohio have had signs posted warning about the potential of health risk.\n\nIn July 2016 Florida declared a state of emergency for four counties as a result of blooms. They were said to be \"destroying\" a number of businesses and affecting local economies, with many needing to shut down entirely. Some beaches were closed, and hotels and restaurants suffered a drop in business. Tourist sporting activities such as fishing and boating were also affected. Senator Marco Rubio called the situation in Florida \"a health, ecological and economic emergency.\"\nSimilar blooms have become more common in Europe, with France among the countries reporting them. In the summer of 2009, beaches in northern Brittany became covered by tonnes of potentially lethal rotting green algae. A horse being ridden along the beach collapsed and died from fumes given off by the rotting algae.\n\nThe economic damage resulting from lost business has become a serious concern. According to one report in 2016, the four main economic impacts from harmful algal blooms come from damage to human health, fisheries, tourism and recreation, and the cost of monitoring and management of area where blooms appear. EPA estimates that algal blooms impact 65 percent of the country's major estuaries, with an annual cost of $2.2 billion. In the U.S. there are an estimated 166 coastal dead zones. Because data collection has been more difficult and limited from sources outside the U.S., most of the estimates as of 2016 have been primarily for the U.S.\n\nIn port cities in the Shandong Province of eastern China, residents are no longer surprised when massive algal blooms arrive each year and inundate beaches. Prior to the Beijing Olympics in 2008, over 10,000 people worked to clear 20,000 tons of dead algae from beaches. In 2013 another bloom in China, thought to be its largest ever, covered an area of 7,500 square miles, and was followed by another in 2015 which blanketed an even greater 13,500 square miles. The blooms in China are thought to be caused by pollution from untreated agricultural and industrial discharges into rivers leading to the ocean.\n\nAs early as 1976 a short-term, relatively small, dead zone off the coasts of New York and New Jersey cost commercial and recreational fisheries over $500 million. In 1998 a red tide in Hong Kong killed over $10 million in high-value fish.\n\nIn 2009, the economic impact for the state of Washington's coastal counties dependent on its fishing industry was estimated to be $22 million. In 2016, the U.S. seafood industry expected future lost revenue could amount to $900 million annually.\n\nNOAA has provided a few cost estimates for various blooms over the past few years: $10.3 million in 2011 due to the red tide at Texas oyster landings; $2.4 million lost income by tribal commerce from 2015 fishery closures in the pacific northwest; $40 million from Washington state's loss of tourism from the same fishery closure.\n\nAlong with damage to businesses, the toll from human sickness results in lost wages and damaged health. The costs of medical treatment, investigation by health agencies through water sampling and testing, and the posting of warning signs at effected locations is also costly.\n\nThe closures applied to areas where this algae bloom occurs has a big negative impact of the fishing industries, add to that the high fish mortality that follows, the increase in price due to the shortage of fish available and decrease in the demand for seafood due to the fear of contamination by toxins. This causes a big economic loss for the industry.\n\nEconomic costs are estimated to rise. In June 2015, for instance, the largest known toxic HAB forced the shutdown of the west coast shellfish industry, the first time that has ever happened. One Seattle NOAA expert commented, \"This is unprecedented in terms of the extent and magnitude of this harmful algal bloom and the warm water conditions we're seeing offshore...\" The bloom covered a range from Santa Barbara, California northward to Alaska.\n\nThe number of reported harmful algal blooms (cyanobacterial) has been increasing throughout the world. In the U.S., every coastal state has had harmful algal blooms over the last decade, and species have emerged in new locations that were not previously known to have problems. Inland, major rivers have seen an increase in their size and frequency. In 2015 the Ohio River had a bloom which stretched an \"unprecedented\" into adjoining states and tested positive for toxins, which created drinking water and recreation problems. A portion of Utah's Jordan River was closed due to toxic algal bloom in 2016.\n\nResearchers have reported the growth of HABs in Europe, Africa and Australia. Those have included blooms on some of the African Great Lakes, such as Lake Victoria, the second largest freshwater lake in the world. India has been reporting an increase in the number of blooms each year. In 1977 Hong Kong reported its first red tide. By 1987 they were getting an average of 35 per year. Additionally, there have been reports of harmful algal blooms throughout popular Canadian lakes such as Beaver Lake and Quamichan Lake. These blooms were responsible for the deaths of a few animals and led to swimming advisories.\n\nGlobal warming and pollution is causing algal blooms to form in places previously considered \"impossible\" or rare for them to exist, such as under the ice sheets in the Arctic, in Antarctica, the Himalayan Mountains, the Rocky Mountains, and in the Sierra Nevada Mountains.\n\nMassive fish die-offs have been caused by HABs. In 2016, 23 million salmon which were being farmed in Chile died from a toxic algae bloom. To get rid of the dead fish, the ones fit for consumption were made into fishmeal and the rest were dumped 60 miles offshore to avoid risks to human health. The economic cost of that die-off is estimated to have been $800 million. Environmental expert Lester Brown has written that the farming of salmon and shrimp in offshore ponds concentrates waste, which contributes to eutrophication and the creation of dead zones.\n\nOther countries have reported similar impacts, with cities such as Rio de Janeiro, Brazil seeing major fish die-offs from blooms becoming a common occurrence. In early 2015, Rio collected an estimated 50 tons of dead fish from the lagoon where water events in the 2016 Olympics were planned to take place.\n\nThe Monterey Bay has suffered from harmful algal blooms, most recently in 2015: \"Periodic blooms of toxin-producing \"Pseudo-nitzschia\" diatoms have been documented for over 25 years in Monterey Bay and elsewhere along the U.S. west coast. During large blooms, the toxin accumulates in shellfish and small fish such as anchovies and sardines that feed on algae, forcing the closure of some fisheries and poisoning marine mammals and birds that feed on contaminated fish.\" Similar fish die-offs from toxic algae or lack of oxygen have been seen in Russia, Colombia, Vietnam, China, Canada, Turkey, Indonesia, and France.\n\nLand animals, including livestock and pets have been affected. Dogs have died from the toxins after swimming in algal blooms. Warnings have come from government agencies in the state of Ohio, which noted that many dogs and livestock deaths resulted from HAB exposure in the U.S. and other countries. They also noted in a 2003 report that during the previous 30 years, they have seen more frequent and longer-lasting harmful algal blooms.\" In 50 countries and 27 states that year there were reports of human and animal illnesses linked to algal toxins. In Australia, the department of agriculture warned farmers that the toxins from a HAB had the \"potential to kill large numbers of livestock very quickly.\"\nMarine mammals have also been seriously harmed, as over 50 percent of unusual marine mammal deaths are caused by harmful algal blooms. In 1999, over 65 bottlenose dolphins died during a red tide in Florida. In 2013 a red tide in southwest Florida killed a record number of Manatee. Whales have also died in large numbers. During the period from 2005 to 2014, Argentina reported an average 65 baby whales dying which experts have linked to algal blooms. A whale expert there expects the whale population to be reduced significantly. In 2003 off Cape Cod in the North Atlantic, at least 12 humbpack whales died from toxic algae from a red tide. In 2015 Alaska and British Columbia reported many humpback whales had likely died from HAB toxins, with 30 having washed ashore in Alaska. \"Our leading theory at this point is that the harmful algal bloom has contributed to the deaths,\" said a NOAA spokesperson.\n\nBirds have died after eating dead fish contaminated with toxic algae. Rotting and decaying fish are eaten by birds such as pelicans, seagulls, cormorants, and possibly marine or land mammals, which then become poisoned. The nervous systems of dead birds were examined and had failed from the toxin's effect. On the Oregon and Washington coast, a thousand scoters, or sea ducks, were also killed in 2009. \"\"This is huge,\" said a University professor. As dying or dead birds washed up on the shore, wildlife agencies went into \"an emergency crisis mode.\"\n\nIt has even been suggested that harmful algal blooms are responsible for the deaths of animals found in fossil troves.\n\nAccording to NOAA, blooms can harm the environment even without producing toxins by depleting oxygen from the water when growing and while decaying after they die. Blooms can also block sunlight to organisms living beneath it. A record-breaking number and size of blooms have formed in the Pacific coast, in Lake Erie, in the Chesapeake Bay and in the Gulf of Mexico, where a number of dead zones were created as a result. In the 1960s the number of dead zones worldwide was 49; the number rose to over 400 by 2008. In the U.S. they are especially prevalent along the east and south coasts.\n\nVarious important natural habitats such as rivers, lakes and estuaries have continued to degrade and has contributed to creating more oxygen-deprived dead zones, including some in the Gulf of Mexico, the Chesapeake Bay, and Lake Erie. \n\nAmong the largest dead zones were those in northern Europe’s Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, which affects a $2.8 billion U.S. fish industry. Unfortunately, dead zones rarely recover and usually grow in size. One of the few dead zones to ever recover was in the Black Sea, which returned to normal fairly quickly after the collapse of the Soviet Union in the 1990s due to a resulting reduction in fertilizer use.\n\nAlthough a number of algaecides have been effective in killing algae, they have been used mostly in small bodies of water. For large algal blooms, however, adding algaecides such as silver nitrate or copper sulfate can have worse effects, such as killing fish outright and harming other wildlife. The negative effects can therefore be worse than letting the algae die off naturally.\n\nOther experts have proposed building reservoirs to prevent the movement of algae downstream. However, that can lead to the growth of algae within the reservoir, which become sediment traps with a resultant buildup of nutrients. Some researchers found that intensive blooms in reservoirs were the primary source of toxic algae observed downstream, but the movement of algae has so far been less studied, although it is considered a likely cause of algae transport.\n\nA growing number of scientists agree that there is an urgent need to protect the public by being able to forecast harmful algal blooms. One way they hope to do that is with sophisticated sensors which can help warn about potential blooms. The same types of sensors can also be used by water treatment facilities to help them prepare for higher toxic levels.\n\nThe only sensors now in use are located in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2008 similar sensors in the Gulf forewarned of an increased level of toxins which led to a shutdown of shellfish harvesting in Texas along with a recall of mussels, clams and oysters, possibly saving many lives. With an increase in the size and frequency of HABs, experts state the need for significantly more sensors located around the country. The same kinds of sensors can also be used to detect threats to drinking water from intentional contamination.\n\nFour U.S. federal agencies—EPA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), NOAA, and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)—are working on ways to detect and measure cyanobacteria blooms using satellite data. The data may help develop early-warning indicators of cyanobacteria blooms by monitoring both local and national coverage. In 2016 automated early-warning monitoring systems were successfully tested, and for the first time proven to identify the rapid growth of algae and the subsequent depletion of oxygen in the water.\n\nHowever, in the U.S. at least, funding for such warning devices has been shrinking, with approved funding down 45% over the last five years. According to one marine science professor, \"We need it more than ever, and we’ve brought ourselves to the precipice of making great forecasts, but we can’t make it happen.\"\n\nThe nitrates and phosphorus in fertilizers cause algal blooms when they run off into lakes and rivers after heavy rains. Modifications in farming methods have been suggested, such as only using fertilizer in a targeted way at the appropriate time exactly where it can do the most good for crops to reduce potential runoff. A method used successfully is drip irrigation, which instead of widely dispersing fertilizers on fields, drip-irrigates plant roots through a network of tubes and emitters, leaving no traces of fertilizer to be washed away. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), drip irrigation also prevents the formation of algal blooms in reservoirs for drinking water while saving up to 50% of water typically used by agriculture.\n\nA number of states in the U.S. have tried eliminating phosphates in detergent and by cleaning water treatment plants, which succeeded in reducing the amount that entered Lake Erie by 66%. However, changes in farming practices during that period increased chemical runoff, thereby offsetting the improvements.\n\nThere have also been proposals to create buffer zones of foliage and wetlands to help filter out the phosphorus before it reaches water. Other experts have suggested using conservation tillage, changing crop rotations, and restoring wetlands. \"The most important thing that can be done is to reduce agricultural runoff,\" according to a Great Lakes pollution expert. \"Prevention is better than treatment.\" Another expert states that it is possible for some dead zones to shrink within a year under proper management.\n\nThere have been a few success stories in controlling chemicals. After Norway's lobster fishery collapsed in 1986 due to low oxygen levels, for instance, the government in neighboring Denmark took action and reduced phosphorus output by 80 percent which brought oxygen levels closer to normal. Similarly, dead zones in the Black Sea and along the Danube River recovered after phosphorus applications by farmers were reduced by 60%.\n\nIn 2008, the U.S. government prepared a report on the problem, \"Harmful Algal Bloom Management and Response: Assessment and Plan\". The change recognized the seriousness of the problem:\n\nThe report suggested among other remedies, using improved monitoring methods, trying to improve predictability, and testing new potential methods of controlling HABs. Some countries surrounding the Baltic Sea, which has the world's largest dead zone, have considered using massive geoengineering options, such as forcing air into bottom layers to aerate them.\n\nIn 2015, NOAA created 12 new research grants totaling nearly $2.1 million which they would award to national organizations doing research on harmful algal blooms and hypoxia, which they consider to be \"two of the most scientifically complex and economically damaging coastal issues.\"\n\nMost countries, states and large cities have departments which will help monitor and report incidents of algal blooms. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the U.S. launched the country's first algal bloom reporting system in June 2016. Environmental agencies in individual U.S. states will accept reports of blooms from citizens and will work with cities to test and report incidents to the media. A few examples:\n\n"}
{"id": "23293166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23293166", "title": "Hellin's law", "text": "Hellin's law\n\nHellin's Law is the principle that one in about 80 natural pregnancies ends in the birth of twins, triplets once in 80 births, and quadruplets once in 80 births.\n\n"}
{"id": "55836092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55836092", "title": "Higi", "text": "Higi\n\nHigi is a medical technology company that creates health station kiosks. The kiosks appear in supermarkets, pharmacies, and other retail locations. Higi has over 11,000 kiosks in the United States. It was founded in 2012 by Khan Siddiqui and Michael W. Ferro Jr., the owner of the Chicago Sun-Times (tronc).\n\nThe company makes much of its money from advertising on the kiosks.\n\nHigi acquired Merge Health Information Kiosks for $2.75 million in 2012 and kiosk provider Stayhealthy in 2014 for an undisclosed amount. It received investment from BlueCross BlueShield's venture fund in 2017. Another notable investor is Lupe Fiasco, who accepted a role as creative director of the company. As part of the Blue Shield investment, Higi acquired a Seattle company called EveryMove.\n\nIn 2017, Sam's Club began offering higi in its stores Higi also placed kiosks at Vanderbilt University and Wegman's supermarkets The kiosks are also at Kroger, Meijer, Shopko, Rite Aid and other stores.\n\nIn 2018, Higi raised a Series C round of $21.3 million from Flare Capital Partners and 7wireVentures.\n\nHigi named a new Chairman Chris Kryder in August 2018.\n"}
{"id": "50351924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50351924", "title": "Institute for Clinical and Economic Review", "text": "Institute for Clinical and Economic Review\n\nThe Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER) is a Boston-based independent nonprofit organization that seeks to improve healthcare value by providing comprehensive clinical and cost-effectiveness analyses of treatments, tests, and procedures.\n\nIt was founded in about 2005 by physician-researcher Steven D. Pearson, MD, MSc, FRCP. Until 2014 it concentrated on assessing health care costs (rather than evaluating drugs). It evaluates the cost effectiveness of drugs in a similar way to the UK's NICE, and has come under some criticism from the drug industry. It has issued a number of drug evaluations since 2014. especially since July 2015. \nThe institution is funded by the Laura and John Arnold Foundation, drug makers, insurers, and government grants.\n\nICER estimates the amount of money available to be spent annually on new drugs and then divides that amount by the number of expected US Food and Drug Administration approvals to set an affordability benchmark.\n\nICER's affordability calculations adjust for drugs targeting prevalent diseases and/or those presenting a significant clinical benefit by setting the threshold at double the available funds divided by the expected number of new drugs (approved by FDA).\n\nAfter discussions in 2016 ICER broadened its quality-adjusted life year threshold to $50,000 - $150,000.\n\nIt issued a draft report that said Sovaldi wasn’t worth the list price of about $84,000 a year.\n\nAs of May 2016 ICER published final reports on\n\n- Multiple myeloma\n- Palliative care\n\nIt has criticised the high price of drugs for osteoporosis, multiple sclerosis, PCSK9 cholesterol meds, and immuno-oncology therapies.\n\nIn 2017 it issued a controversial draft report on PARP inhibitors for ovarian cancer.\n\nA preliminary list of drugs to be evaluated includes rociletinib, AZD-9291, necitumumab, nivolumab, and pembrolizumab for small-cell lung cancer; fingolimod, dimethyl fumarate, teriflunomide, alemtuzumab, and daclizumab for multiple sclerosis; and ixekizumab and brodalumab for psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6282756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6282756", "title": "Interactive skeleton-driven simulation", "text": "Interactive skeleton-driven simulation\n\nInteractive skeleton-driven simulation (or Interactive skeleton-driven dynamic deformations) is a scientific computer simulation technique used to approximate realistic physical deformations of dynamic bodies in real-time. It involves using elastic dynamics and mathematical optimizations to decide the body-shapes during motion and interaction with forces. It has various applications within realistic simulations for medicine, 3D computer animation and virtual reality.\n\nMethods for simulating deformation, such as changes of shapes, of dynamic bodies involve intensive calculations, and several models have been developed. Some of these are known as \"free-form deformation\", \"skeleton-driven deformation\", \"dynamic deformation\" and \"anatomical modelling\". Skeletal animation is well known in computer animation and 3D character simulation. Because of the calculation intensitivity of the simulation, few interactive systems are available which realistically can simulate dynamic bodies in real-time. Being able to \"interact\" with such a realistic 3D model would mean that calculations would have to be performed within the constraints of a frame rate which would be acceptable via a user interface.\n\nRecent research has been able to build on previously developed models and methods to provide sufficiently efficient and realistic simulations. The promise for this technique can be as widespread as mimicing human facial expressions for perception of simulating a human actor in real-time or other cell organisms. Using skeletal constraints and parameterized force to calculate deformations also has the benefit of matching how a single cell has a shaping skeleton, as well as how a larger living organism might have an internal bone skeleton - such as the vertebraes. The generalized external body force simulations makes elasticity calculations more efficient, and means real-time interactions are possible.\n\nThere are several components to such a simulation system:\ndomain with calculations of these hierarchical functions similar to that of lazy wavelets\n\nRather than fitting the object to the skeleton, as is common, the skeleton is used to set constraints for deformation. Also the hierarchical basis means that detail levels can be introduced or removed when needed - for example, observing from a distance or hidden surfaces.\n\nPre-calculated poses are used to be able to interpolate between shapes and achieve realistic deformations throughout motions. This means traditional keyframes are avoided.\n\nThere are performance tuning similarities between this technique and procedural generation, wavelet and data compression methods.\n\nTo achieve interactivity there are several optimizations necessary which are implementation specific.\n\nStart by defining the object you wish to animate as a set (i.e. define all the points):\nformula_1 .\n\nThen get a handle on it.\nLet formula_2\n\nThen you need to define the rest state of the object (the non-wobble point): \nformula_3\n\nProjects are taking place to further develop this technique and presenting results to SIGGRAPH, with available reference of details. Academic institutions and commercial enterprises like Alias Systems Corporation (the makers of the Maya rendering software), Intel and Electronic Arts are among the known proponents of this work. There are also videos available showcasing the techniques, with editors showing interactivity in real-time with realistic results. The computer game Spore also has showcased similar techniques.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23788749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23788749", "title": "John Craton", "text": "John Craton\n\nJohn Douglas Craton (born August 6, 1953) is an American classical composer. His works have been performed throughout the United States, Europe, and Japan. While his compositions cover a diverse range, he is best known for his operas, ballets, and works for classical mandolin.\n\nCraton was born August 6, 1953, in Anniston, Alabama. Though neither of his parents was musical, his extended family included many musicians, both amateurs and professionals, among them his cousin, concert pianist and composer Barbara Gallagher. He began his formal musical training at age 10 studying violin under retired violinist and conductor, Robert Louis Barron. After graduating from Saks High School he studied violin and piano at Jacksonville State University before transferring to Lipscomb University, where he earned his B.A. Craton studied theory and composition under John Maltese, Gerald Moore, and Henry Fusner. His graduate degree from Indiana University was in audiology, and Craton practiced as a clinical audiologist for several years in Indiana before returning to his musical roots and devoting his full-time to teaching and composing.\n\nCraton's music is highly tonal and in general reflects a style of English pastoralism, often incorporating onomatopoeic elements sometimes described as \"nature music.\" His music has been variously characterized as \"atmospheric,\" \"dramatic and challenging,\" \"largely traditional ... playful,\" and occasionally even reflecting \"a medieval/Renaissance flavor.\" He has been performed by such artists and ensembles as Sebastiaan de Grebber, Gertrud Weyhofen, Eva van den Dool, Christiaan Saris, Ljubomir Velickovic, Het CONSORT, the Orkest van het Oosten, Filarmonica Mandolini Alba Sapporo, Townsend Opera Players, and the Amsterdam Symphony Orchestra. Romanian opera composer and conductor Leonard Dumitriu has described Craton's music as \"coming from some other time and planet,\" stating that although he \"may be an American living in the present, ... [his] music comes from the time of Haydn and Mozart, or, better, from a world without time, where ... even the cares are easy and bright ... a musical world of sonorous peace and joy.\" Many of Craton's works are published by Wolfhead Music.\n\nWhile in his early years Craton often performed on violin, piano, recorder, and other instruments, he abandoned public performance after a hand injury and has since devoted himself completely to teaching and composing. He currently operates a private music studio in Bedford, Indiana.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25910081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25910081", "title": "Knee arthritis", "text": "Knee arthritis\n\nKnee arthritis is inflammation in the joints or area of the body where two bones come together. Joints are responsible for the movement of body parts. It is a condition that can be experienced all over the body or in a specific area. The types range from those related to wear and tear of cartilage, such as osteoarthritis to those associated with inflammation resulting from an overactive immune system, such as rheumatoid arthritis. The one part of the body that is most affected by arthritis is the knee and it can suffer from both rheumatoid or osteoarthritis.\n\nRheumatoid arthritis (RA), is a chronic inflammatory disorder that most typically begins in the small joints in your hands and feet. However, the course can begin with other nonspecific symptoms, such as tiredness. After attacking the smaller joints of the body, RA often progresses into larger joints, such as the shoulders, elbows, hips, and knees. Symptoms include joint pain, swelling, red and puffy hands, and fatigue. RA degrades the lining of the joints and causes swelling that is painful and can lead to joint deformity in the affected joints. Rheumatoid arthritis tends to worsen over time. Though there is no permanent cure, the course of the disease can be modified so that the damage is less, the patient is more comfortable and the patient can continue to engage in and enjoy daily activities. Treatment is most effective when it is begun as early as possible, before the process of deformity is far progressed, but some relief can be offered by treatment at any stage.\n\nOsteoarthritis is a joint disease that causes the cushion layer between one's bones, or cartilage to wear away. It is also called degenerative joint disease. Symptoms are similar to RA and develop in the same slow manner. They include pain, tenderness in the knee, stiffness when standing or walking, loss of flexibility, and grating sensations that can be heard when the knee joint is used.\n\nOsteoarthritis in the knee begins with the gradual deterioration of cartilage. Without the protective cartilage, the bones begin to rub together, causing pain, loss of mobility, and deformity. It affects approximately 16 million people. The majority of arthritis cases involving the knee are osteoarthritic cases.\n\nIt is not always certain why arthritis of the knee develops. Most physicians believe that it is a combination of factors that can include muscle weakness, obesity, heredity, joint injury or stress, constant exposure to the cold, and aging. Cartilage in the knee begins to break down and leaves the bones of the knee rubbing against each other as you walk. Persons who work in a place that applies repetitive stress on the knees are at a high risk of developing this condition. Bone deformities increase the risk for osteoarthritis of the knee since the joints are already malformed and may contain defective cartilage. Having gout, rheumatoid arthritis, Paget's disease of bone or septic arthritis can increase your risk of developing osteoarthritis.\nSome physicians and most podiatrist believe that Pes Planus (flat feet) cause increased rates and earlier incidence of knee osteoarthritis. In a study of army recruits with moderate to severe flat feet, the results showed that they had almost double the rate of knee arthritis when compared to recruits with normal arches.\nDiagnosis of knee osteoarthritis depends on a focused medical history and on a physical examination of the affected knee. In particular, a history of persistent knee pain, limited (low) morning stiffness and reduced function in addition to physical exam findings of crepitus (feeling of cracking or popping with movement of the joint), restricted movement and bony enlargement were found to be the most useful diagnostics markers in one study. Standardized medical questionnaires like the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and short form KOOS JR. or the Knee Injury and Osteopaedic Outcome Score (WOMAC) can also be used to diagnose and monitor progression of knee osteoarthritis.\n\nDepending on the level of pain and damage suffered by a patient, a physician will recommend a treatment regimen that will relieve symptoms. Some of the most common recommendations include avoiding activities that make the pain worse, ice the knee for 20 to 30 minutes throughout the day to reduce inflammation, use over the counter anti-inflammatory medications, paracetamol (acetaminophen) and physical therapy.\n\nTopical creams and patches can also be used for pain treatment and they have been proven to reduce pain by 33 to 57%.\n\nExercises can help increase range of motion and flexibility as well as help strengthen the muscles in the leg. Physical therapy and exercise are often effective in reducing pain and improving function. Working with a physical therapist to find exercises that promote function without risking further injury is effective for most patients. Many of the exercises used can be performed while sitting in a chair or standing in place. They are performed so that additional stress or weight is not placed on the knee joint. Water exercises are highly recommended along with the use of elastic bands. \n\nA Cochrane review could not conclude whether high-intensity exercises provide better results than low-intensity exercises.\n\nSupportive devices like knee braces can be used. In most cases, the arthritis is centered on a single side of the knee, so braces are effective in providing stability to one side. Two different forms of braces are available. A support brace provides the aid the entire knee requires, where an up-loader brace shifts the pressure away from the specific part of the knee that is experiencing the pain. Shoes or inserts that are considered to be energy absorbing are found useful for some patients as well as walking devices like a cane. Shoe insoles that are fitted to correct flat feet have provided relief to many patients.\n\nThe use of oral steroids and anti-inflammatory medicines help to reduce the amount of inflammation and pain felt in the knee. If over the counter medicines like ibuprofen or naproxen are not strong enough, prescription strength medicines are used. If oral medicine and physical therapy don't help your knee enough, doctors may consider giving patients injections with pain medicine. Hyaluronic acid is present in the knee, but injections of it can be used to protect the joint when the cartilage becomes thinner and can't do it alone. These injections can provide more pain relief than oral medications lasting from six months to a year.\n\nSurgery is the final option but may be required to relieve symptoms. Arthroscopy is performed through tiny cuts where damaged parts of the knee can be removed. Osteotomy is performed to reshape the bones in the knee and is only performed if one side of the knee is damaged. Arthroplasty is a replacement surgery where an artificial joint is used.\n\nLow level laser therapy can be considered for relief of pain and stiffness associated with osteoarthritis. \n"}
{"id": "39352976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39352976", "title": "Mary E. Britton", "text": "Mary E. Britton\n\nMary Ellen Britton (1855–1925) was an African-American physician, educator, suffragist, journalist and civil rights activist from Lexington, Kentucky. Britton was an original member of the Kentucky Negro Education Association, which formed in 1877. She was president of the Lexington Woman's Improvement Club, and later served as a charter member of the Ladies Orphan Society which founded the Colored Orphan Industrial Home in Lexington, in 1892. During her lifetime she accomplished many things through the obstacles she faced. After teaching black children in Lexington public schools, she worked as a doctor from her home in Lexington. She specialized in hydrotherapy, electrotherapy and massage; and, she was officially granted her license to practice medicine in Lexington, Kentucky in 1902, making her the first woman doctor to be licensed in Lexington.\n\nMary Ellen Britton was born as a free person of color on April 16, 1855. She was one of seven children of Laura and Henry Britton who lived on Mill Street, somewhere between Second and Third Streets which is now in the Gratz Park Historical District of Lexington, Kentucky. Contrary to the limited opportunities many other African-Americans of the time were allowed, she and her siblings—Susan J. (born 1850), Julia (born 1852), Mary Elizabeth (born 1855), Joseph (also known as Josiah, born 1856), Robert H. (born 1857), Martha (born 1860), William (born 1867) and Hattie (born 1868), Lucy (born ca. 1872), and Thomas Marshall (born 1873) — all acquired a classical education. Her father Henry was a freeborn carpenter (born around 1824) of Spanish/Indian heritage who later became a barber in Berea. Her mother, Laura, was a gifted singer and musician who had been well-educated under the protection of her mother who was an enslaved mistress to Kentucky statesman Thomas F. Marshall. Laura had been emancipated at the age of sixteen.\n\nAt a young age Britton was offered the best education possible for African American children in that time - attending private schools created out of subscriptions from Lexington's African-American professional class. In 1859, along with older sister Julia Britton Hooks (later known as a gifted musician and educator, as well as Berea's first African American teacher), Britton attended a branch school in Lexington started by Mr. William H. Gibson of Louisville, Kentucky. The family later moved to Berea, Kentucky where Laura Britton was hired as a matron at Berea College.\n\nFrom 1871 to 1874, Mary E. Britton attended Berea College, the first institution of higher learning to admit blacks in the state of Kentucky. At the time the only profession offered to an educated woman of any race was teaching. While she was there as a student, she was also a part of the faculty teaching instrumental music - making her the first African-American to teach white students at Berea. After the death of both her parents (within four months of each other in 1874), Britton left Berea in order to seek employment. She taught in the Lexington School System beginning around 1876 and ending in August 1897.\n\nAfter leaving Berea, Britton taught in several schools in central Kentucky and advocated for the improvement of pedagogy in African-American schools. Her paper entitled \"Literary Culture of the Teacher\" was presented at the second meeting of the Kentucky Negro Education Association (KNEA) in Louisville in 1879. At the Ninth Annual Convention of the KNEA in Danville, she gave two speeches, the second of which (on July 6, 1887), she spoke out on behalf of woman suffrage. In her speech, which later was published as \"Woman's Suffrage: A Potent Agency in Public Reform,\" she argued that women, like men, had a right to define their own fate within the laws of the land, and that laws should be equally applied to both women and men. She wrote: \"If woman is the same as man then she has the same rights, if she is distinct from man then she has a right to the ballot to help make laws for her government.\" In 1894 she presented \"History and Science of Teaching\" before the American Association of Educators of Colored Youth in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nOn April 15, 1892, Britton presented a speech to the joint Railroad Committee of the Kentucky General Assembly on behalf of a delegation of women protesting the Separate Coach bill. In her speech she questioned the white supremacists' assumptions about their monopoly on virtue, intelligence and aestheticism - reminding the legislators of the horrors of slavery and atrocities by whites that were allowed. She also decried the segregationist approach of punishing a whole group of people simply because of their shared color of skin when only one African-American was convicted and punished for a crime committed. Britton argued on behalf of all Americans and their right to \"life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\" concluding that a law based solely on race was unjust and un-American.\n\nThat same year, Britton and 19 other women met at St. Paul A.M.E. Church to establish the Ladies Orphans' Home Society. This group raised the money and created the Colored Orphan Industrial Home in Lexington, Kentucky. This organization provided food, shelter, education and training to destitute orphans and elderly, homeless women until it closed in 1988.\n\nIn 1893 Britton tested whether the grand \"White City\" in Chicago for the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 was open to blacks. African-American participation in the exhibits had been very limited, leading to calls for protests. According to Karen Cotton McDaniel, Britton was curious if the Kentucky building in the Exposition would allow her entrance. Her open defiance of white supremacy at the door of the Kentucky exhibit—and subsequent \"humiliation, indignation and other strains she experienced\" was highly publicized.\n\nShe resigned from teaching to work at the Battle Creek Sanitarium in Michigan where she learned about hydrotherapy, phototherapy, thermotherapy, electrotherapy and mechanotherapy—the strategies and health principles advocated by the Seventh-day Adventist Church. She attended classes there with the American Medical Missionary College and took classes in Chicago, graduating in 1903. She returned home and became the first African-American woman licensed to practice medicine in Lexington, Kentucky. After about a year, she built an office on North Limestone Street (fronting Rand Avenue) where she practiced for over twenty years.\n\nBritton was an original member of the Kentucky Negro Education Association which was formed in 1877 to improve schools for African-American children and to make statewide changes through legislative action. She was also President of the Lexington Woman's Improvement Club. The initial goal for this club was the \"elevation of women, the enriching and betterment of home, and the encitement of proper pride and interest in race.\" For many years, the Club managed a Day Nursery for the children of working mothers.\n\nHer writings on moral and social reform can be found in local newspapers such as the \"Lexington American Citizen\" and the \"Lexington Daily Transcript\"—she wrote a regular women's column in the \"Lexington Herald\" (signed \"Meb\"). She also wrote for the \"Cleveland Gazette\", the \"Indianapolis World\", the Baltimore \"Ivy\" and the \"American Catholic Tribune\" in Cincinnati.\n\nDr. Britton never married or had children. Most of her siblings died before her, most at an early age. Martha and Joseph died in childhood sometime after 1860; Hattie shot herself in the head at the age of 23 while living with sister Julia in Memphis. Thomas, her youngest brother, went on to become a successful jockey, but in 1901 at the age of 28 and banned from many racetracks he committed suicide by drinking carbolic acid. Lucy had married Will F. \"Monk\" Overton (a jockey whose career was also overturned by Jim Crow), but died in her early thirties from acute nephritis. In 1914 the eldest sister, Susan who was the wife of a prominent African-American barber in Lexington named Benjamin Franklin, died. Dr. Britton retired from her medical practice at the age of 68 in 1923.\n\nMary E. Britton died in Lexington's St. Joseph Hospital on August 27, 1925, only a few hours after she had been admitted. The Blue Grass Medical Society published a proclamation in the \"Lexington Leader\" (August 30, 1925) describing their esteem for her work and character. The funeral was held at her home/office on North Limestone and she was buried in Lexington's segregated Greenwood Cemetery (now known as Cove Haven). She willed most of her estate to her sister Julia Britton Hooks and Julia's sons, and she gave her library to the Seventh-day Adventist Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23529877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23529877", "title": "Medications used in dentistry and periodontics", "text": "Medications used in dentistry and periodontics\n\nIn periodontics, there are four reasons to seek medication. Those four reasons include infection, swelling, pain, and sedation. Although some patients may experience pain, swelling, and infection as a result of an acute periodontal problem such as advanced periodontal disease, periodontic patients usually do not need medication until they are faced with surgery. For successful surgery, medication is then introduced prior to the operation, usually the morning before the procedure and is continued for up to two weeks after.\n\nDuring the surgery, dentists use medication to not only ease the pain of the procedure, but also to reduce patient anxiety. With conscious sedation, you remain comfortable and pain-free. The term \"medication dentistry\" is also referred to as anxiety-free dentistry, relaxation dentistry or comfortable dentistry. This is because most of the patients have feelings of anxiety during even a routine trip to the dentist’s office.\n\nThere are a number of sedation drugs, which can be taken by mouth. They have been developed specifically for the purpose of conscious sedation in dentistry. Sleep dentistry is a common term once used to describe a visit to the dentist. The interesting thing is that though it was referred to as sleep dentistry, the patient never actually went to sleep during the visit. Sleep dentistry should really be applied to dentistry which uses the aid of general anesthesia. \nThe dentist will determine which medication is best used during sedation.\n\nThis is probably the most well recognized drug used today. Diazepam (Valium) has been used since the 1960s. It is a well-known sedative. It is extremely useful during appointments where the most extensive dentistry is being performed.\n\nTriazolam (Halcion) is the most well-known treatment for insomnia. It is a highly effective drug, which can be used in conjunction with an antihistamine. It is similar to diazepam and is a popular choice for many different dentists. Triazolamis typically used for shorter appointments.\n\nZaleplon (Sonata) is also used in the treatment of insomnia. The patient is not in an extended sleep during throughout oral sedation, but is rather relaxed and comfortable throughout the procedure.\n\nLorazepam (Ativan) is a very commonly prescribed drug for anxiety. It is very useful in appointments that are longer than two hours.\n\nHydroxyzine (Vistaril) is classified as an antihistamine. It has anti-anxiety effects and works in conjunction with many benzodiazepines. It has no amnesic properties.\n\nMidazolam the shortest half-life of any available drugs. It is ideal for short appointments and simple procedures. It has many anti-anxiety properties as well as amnesic properties.\n\nMedications are typically used to control pain and anxiety in dentistry. The patient is very rarely out completely during a dental procedure, even if he or she cannot accurately remember the procedure upon waking up.\n\nAnti-inflammatory medications are used to relieve discomfort and redness of the mouth and gums. They are available by prescription only and are available as pastes under some brand names such as Kenalog and Orabase. There are also non-prescription anti-inflammatory medications, such as Motrin, which may be used to relieve pain and are available over-the-counter.\n\nLocal anesthesia, general anesthesia, nitrous oxide and intravenous sedation are all used during common procedures to help dull and control pain and anxiety.\n\nTopical anesthetic agents are typically intraorally to control pain or irritation caused by toothache, teething, or sores in or around the mouth. Topical anesthetics are available by prescription or over-the-counter. They are available in sprays, dental paste, dental gels, lozenges, ointments and solutions. Anbesol, Chloraseptic, Orajel and Xylocaine are examples of available anesthetics over-the-counter. Some medications are also given in order to control plaque and gingivitis. This type of medication is typically available in a mouthwash.\n\nAntiseptics may be recommended (over-the-counter) by the dentist to help reduce plaque and gingivitis buildup, as well as kill germs, which may be the cause of bad breath.\n\nKnowing the role of supragingival plaque in the initiation of periodontal disease and insufficient control of the plate, the use of antiseptics is warranted. These anti-plaque derived from different chemical classes and have different mechanisms of action.\n\nThere are also many medications, which are used to treat tooth decay. Fluoride is used to prevent tooth decay in individuals. Fluoride is available in non-prescription form and is available in many different types of toothpaste.\n\nMuscle relaxants and antifungal medication is also sometimes prescribed within dentistry. Muscle relaxants may be prescribed in order to reduce the patient’s stress levels and/or to help the patient discontinue grinding their teeth. It can also be used to treat TMJ disorders.\n\nAntifungal medication may be used to treat oral thrush, which is common in infants. The goal of treatment is stop the spreading of the Candida fungal infection.\n\n"}
{"id": "7160248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7160248", "title": "Mountain Bothies Association", "text": "Mountain Bothies Association\n\nThe Mountain Bothies Association (MBA) is a Scottish registered charity. It looks after 101 bothies and one emergency mountain shelter (not to be mistaken for or confused with a mountain hut, as the Fords of Avon refuge is little more than a heavily weather protected shed). Of these, only one bothy (Over Phawhope) is owned by the charity. The remainder are maintained with the agreement and encouragement of the owners. The majority are in Scotland with the remainder in Wales and Northern England. These may be stayed in without charge. \n\nThe object of the charity is to maintain simple shelters in remote country for the use and benefit of all who love wild and lonely places. All maintenance work is financed from the MBA's own resources, mainly membership subscriptions supplemented by donations from benefactors, some of whom wish to commemorate a relative or friend who was a hillwalker or climber.\n\nBothies sometimes have an outside toilet but the majority do not. When this is not the case a toilet spade and guidance as to the appropriate disposal of toilet waste are provided within the bothy. Raised platforms or bunks may have been installed for sleeping, but this is not always the case. The floor, particularly an attic floor, may also be suitable to sleep on with the aid of a sleeping pad. Visitors are expected to stay for no more than a night or two before moving on. Groups of six or more and commercial groups are not allowed.\n\nThe MBA was founded by Bernard Heath in 1965. He was inspired by a comment by Alan Murdock in the visitors' book at Backhill of Bush. He first organised the restoration that summer of the ruined farmhouse at Tunskeen as an unlocked shelter, and then with Alan called the meeting on 28 December 1965 at which the MBA was formed, \"To maintain simple unlocked shelters in remote mountain country for the use of hillwalkers, climbers and other genuine outdoor enthusiasts who love the wild and lonely places\".\n\nIn 1975 the MBA became a registered charity. In 1998, the Association was incorporated as a company limited by guarantee, still remaining a registered charity.\n\n, the MBA had a membership of around 3,700. They receive a quarterly newsletter and annual report, but do not have any privileged rights (i.e. the bothies themselves are equally open to all).\n\nEach bothy has one Maintenance Organiser (or, in some cases, a small team of two or three), who monitor the bothy and arrange routine maintenance. MOs are the lifeblood of the organisation, All except one, namely a Mr Geoff Allan, who used his position to compile a guidebook available commercially. This was later endorsed by the MBA, and has went on to sell 30000 copies (at time of edit), trousering a healthy profit for the author and MO in question. This has led to heated discussions and bad blood, due to one person profiteering of the backs of volunteers efforts, not to mention the assets of a registered charity.\nThe UK is divided into nine areas:\n\nThe Maintenance Organisers of the bothies in each area form the respective Area Committees. Each committee elects an Area Organiser to chair their meetings and to represent the area to the Management Committee. Each area also chooses an Area Rep to attend the (national) Management Committee meetings.\n\nProject Organisers run a particular renovation or major maintenance project. This is a short-term responsibility, unlike that of a Maintenance Organiser.\n\nThe Management Committee is responsible for the day-to-day running of the association. It has an overview of maintenance matters and advises the Board of Trustees on policy. It also appoints a Director of Projects, who supports and oversees the work of the Area Organisers, and advises the Association on building practice and health and safety.\n\nThe Board of Trustees is directly elected by the members. It has control over the finances and is responsible for managing the company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1493776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1493776", "title": "NHS care trust", "text": "NHS care trust\n\nAn NHS care trust, is a type of NHS trust in the English National Health Service and NHS Wales that provides both health and social care. They may carry out a range of services, including social care, mental health services or primary care services. Care Trusts are set up when the NHS and Local Authorities agree to work closely together, usually where it is felt that a closer relationship between health and social care is needed or would benefit local care services.\n\nCare Trusts were established under the NHS Plan 2000, in England to bring together in one legal entity the commissioning and provision of health and social care services, especially for older people. Torbay and Southern Devon Health and Care NHS Trust was regarded as the most successful. Others are Worcestershire Health and Care NHS Trust, Bradford District Care Trust, Kent and Medway NHS and Social Care Partnership Trust and Sheffield Health & Social Care NHS Foundation Trust\n\nCare Trusts do not exist in Scotland, nor are there plans to introduce them.\n\nIn Northern Ireland Health and Social Care is organised through five Sub-regional health and social care trusts.\n\n"}
{"id": "57005398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57005398", "title": "Narcology", "text": "Narcology\n\nNarcology (from Ancient Greek \"ναρκόω\", \"Ι benumb\" + \"-λογία\", \"-logy, branch of study\"); , ) is a Russian and former Soviet Republics medical specialty that deals with the treatment of drug addiction. The study of etiology, pathogenesis, and clinical aspects of alcohol use disorder, drug use disorder, and toxicomania (nonnarcotic-substance abuse or substance dependence in Russia).\n\nThe practitioner of narcology is referred to as an narcologist () or psychiatrist/narcologist ().\n\nIn the United States, the comparable term is addiction medicine.\n\nThe medical discipline of narcology in the Russian Federation is a branch of psychiatry.\n\n"}
{"id": "610745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610745", "title": "National Fire Protection Association", "text": "National Fire Protection Association\n\nThe National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) is a United States trade association, albeit with some international members, that creates and maintains private, copyrighted standards and codes for usage and adoption by local governments. The association was formed in 1896 by a group of insurance firms.\nIts purpose was to standardize the then-new fire sprinkler systems. It claims to have 65,000 members.\n\nThe association's official mascot Sparky the Fire Dog promotes fire safety education for children.\n\nThe association's codes and standards include:\n\n\nSparky the Fire Dog is the official mascot of the National Fire Protection Association. Created in 1951 to promote fire safety education for children, he is a Dalmatian dressed in firefighting gear.\n\nA children's book written about Sparky by Don Hoffman was published in 2011. He serves as the spokesdog for Fire Prevention Week each October in the United States and Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "8745515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8745515", "title": "National Gamete Donation Trust", "text": "National Gamete Donation Trust\n\nThe National Gamete Donation Service (NGDS) raises awareness of the national shortage of sperm, egg and embryo donors in the UK. Its aim is to recruit donors to alleviate the shortage, and it provides information on egg, sperm and embryo donation and donor recruitment in the UK.\n\nIt works closely with clinics, donors, recipients, the Department of Health, the HFEA, other professional organisations and the media, and provides impartial and confidential information to all.\n\nThe NGDS works within the UK only (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) to provide information, advice and support to people wishing to become donors and to people who need donors.\n\nThe Service runs a National Helpline; all calls, messages and emails are treated confidentially. There are also separate, closed mailing lists for donors and recipients to discuss issues related to donation. Enquirers can be put in contact with existing donors to find out more about what donation involves.\n\nThe Service works with the Department of Health on campaigns to recruit donors, most recently the 'Have you got the balls' campaign which ran in the Manchester area (2010–11).\n\nThe Service ran a national Donor Satisfaction Survey in 2012 to gather information from UK donors about their experience, and about why people chose not to donate, and use it to improve donor care in clinics.\n\nThe Service has improved awareness of the need for donors and recruited donors in ways that can be controversial. The 'Give a Toss' campaign generated complaints but the Trust received over 500 enquiries from prospective donors over three months.\n\nThe Service is funded mainly by a Section 64 Grant from the Department of Health.\n\nThe Service was initially set up as the National Gamete Donation Trust by the Donor Conception Network (DC Network) and the Infertility Network (INUK) to develop and continue the work of NEEDS (The National Egg and Embryo Donation Society). It was founded on 2 March 1998 by a working group consisting of representatives from: \n\nIn 2012 it won a bid to take over the running of the national Contact Register which links donors and donor-conceived people. The name changed to the National Gamete Donation Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "29090677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29090677", "title": "Observations of daily living", "text": "Observations of daily living\n\nObservations of daily living (ODLs) are cues that people attend to in the course of their everyday life, that inform them about their health. \n\nODLs are different from signs, symptoms, and clinical indicators in that they are defined by the patient, and are not necessarily directly mapped to biomedical models of disease and illness. Examples of ODLs include observations about sleep patterns, exercise behavior and activity trackers, nutritional intake, attitudes and moods, alertness at work or in class, and environmental features such as clutter in the living or working space. Not all patient-generated data constitute ODLs. For example, a patient with diabetes may record their blood glucose levels every day at home, generating data to share with their clinician. That kind of patient-generated data is crucial to inform clinical decision making, but does not constitute ODLs. ODLs are typically defined by patients and their families because they are meaningful to them, and help them self-manage their health and make decisions about it. ODLs may very well complement biomedical indicators and inform medical decision making by providing a more complete and holistic view of the patient as a whole person, provided they are properly integrated in clinical workflows and supported by health information technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "10162822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10162822", "title": "PMFTC", "text": "PMFTC\n\nPMFTC, Inc. is a joint-venture company between Philip Morris Philippines Manufacturing, Inc. (PMPMI) and Fortune Tobacco Corporation (FTC). The company controls over 90% of the Philippine cigarette market.\n\nOn February 25, 2010, both companies signed an agreement to unite their respective business activities by transferring selected assets and liabilities of both companies a new company namned PMFTC, Inc., with each party holding an equal economic interest. Lucio Tan serves as the chairman of PMFTC, Inc., while day-to-day operations is managed by Philip Morris International (PMI). PMPMI will retain its export business, while FTC will keep its interest in the distribution of the Winston brand of Japan Tobacco. PMFTC would not be affected by pending tax and ownership disputes with local courts involving FTC.\n\nIn 1955, Philip Morris International entered into a licensing agreement with La Suerte Cigar and Cigarette Factory to manufacture and sell Marlboro cigarettes in the Philippines. \n\nFortune Tobacco Corporation (FTC) was established in 1966 founded by Benito Tan Kee Hiong, Atty. Florencio N. Santos, Lucio Tan and Mariano Tanenglian.\n\nIn 1995, Philip Morris Philippines, Inc. (PMPI) was established to handle all sales and marketing aspects related to the Marlboro and Philip Morris brands. \n\nIn 2002, the licensing agreement with La Suerte was terminated and Philip Morris Philippines Manufacturing, Inc. (PMPMI) was established to handle all aspects of the Philippine business, including manufacturing operations. PMPI was subsequently merged with PMPMI. A new factory located in Tanauan, Batangas was inaugurated by PMPMI in 2003.\n\nOn February 2010, PMFTC, Inc. was established.\n\n"}
{"id": "564370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=564370", "title": "Project Prevention", "text": "Project Prevention\n\nProject Prevention (formerly Children Requiring a Caring Kommunity or CRACK) is an American non-profit organization that pays drug addicts cash for volunteering for long-term birth control, including sterilization. Originally based in California and now based in North Carolina, the organization began operating in the United Kingdom in 2010. The organization offers US$300 (£200 in the UK) to each participant. Barbara Harris founded the organization in 1997 after she and her husband adopted the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth children of a drug-addicted mother. As of 7 October 2011 the organization had paid 3,848 clients.\n\nBarbara Harris founded the organization in Anaheim, California in 1997 as Children Requiring a Caring Kommunity (CRACK) after she and her husband adopted one-by-one as each was born the latter four of eight children from a drug-addicted mother. Each of the four adopted children is separated in age by only one year. With the experience of helping the children through withdrawal and other health problems, she tried to get legislation passed in California that would have mandated long-term birth control for mothers who gave birth to babies who were exposed to cocaine as fetuses. After this failed she started what is now called Project Prevention.\n\nProject Prevention says their main goal is to promote awareness of the dangers of using drugs during pregnancy. They are better known, however, for paying drug addicts cash for volunteering for long-term birth control, including sterilization. The organization offers US$300 (£200 in the UK) to each participant. \"The New York Times\" reports that the organization initially offered more money to women who chose tubal ligations and men who chose vasectomies than to those who chose long-term birth control like intrauterine devices, but criticism forced them to adopt a flat rate. To receive the money, clients have to show evidence they have been arrested on a drug-related offence, or provide a doctor's certificate saying they use drugs, and further evidence is needed confirming that the birth-control procedure has taken place. The organization keeps statistics on its activities through survey forms that all participants fill out, before any procedure is completed. As of May 2014 based on survey forms from 4,913 clients it had paid: 2,876 (58.5%) were Caucasian; 1,020 (20.8%) African American; 569 (11.6%) Hispanic; 448 (9.1%) other.\n\nThe organization has used slogans such as \"Don’t let pregnancy get in the way of your crack habit\" and \"She has her Daddy’s eyes and her Mommy’s heroin addiction\". In interviews Harris said \"We don’t allow dogs to breed. We spay them. We neuter them. We try to keep them from having unwanted puppies, and yet these women are literally having litters of children\", and that \"we campaign to neuter dogs and yet we allow women to have 10 or 12 kids that they can’t take care of\". On the television news program \"60 Minutes II\" Harris was asked about these comments and said, \"Well, you know my son that goes to Stanford said ‘mom, please don’t ever say that again,’ but it’s the truth, they don’t just have one and two babies, they have litters.\" More recently, Harris has offered a softer response to criticism: \"I guess it depends on where your heart is. Some people are so into the women and their rights to get pregnant that they seem to forget about the rights of the kids. They act like these children don't matter. People need to realize these women don't want to have babies that are taken away from them. Nothing positive comes to the woman who has eight children taken away from her.\"\n\nOpponents of the organization often argue that it should instead focus on addiction treatment or lobbying for government health care. The organization responds by saying that they do not have the resources to solve \"national problems of poverty, housing, nutrition, education and rehabilitation services. Those resources we do have are spent to prevent a problem for $300 rather than paying millions after it happens in cost to care for a potentially damaged child.\" Weaning one opioid-addicted baby off drugs costs about $500,000.\n\nProject Prevention began operating in the UK in 2010. In May 2010 a woman, not an addict, was leaving a clinic in Glasgow in what she described as \"the Possilpark area - it's a well-known area for drugs\" accompanied by her nine-year-old son when she was approached by three women who said they were from the organization and who offered her £200 if she agreed to be sterilized. The woman said the same group had been approaching other women, and she later informed Strathclyde police, who advised anyone approached in a similar way to contact them. The first UK client was \"John\", a drug user since the age of 12, who accepted money to have a vasectomy, saying he should never be a father.\n\nThe organization has been criticized in the UK. Addaction, an addiction charity, said its practices are \"morally reprehensible and irrelevant\". Martin Barnes, CEO of DrugScope, said the organization's activities were exploitative, ethically dubious, and morally questionable. Harris admitted her methods amounted to bribery, but said it was the only way to stop babies being physically and mentally damaged by drugs during pregnancy. The British Medical Association (BMA) said it did not have a view on the organization:\n\nAs with all requests for treatment, doctors need to be confident that the individual has the capacity to make the specific decision at the time the decision is required. The BMA's ethics committee also believes that doctors should inform patients of the benefits of reversible contraception so that the patients have more reproductive choices in the future.\n\nHarris said in 2010 that Project Prevention might expand their activities to Ireland. In response Fiona Weldon, clinical director of Dublin addictions treatment facility, the Rutland Centre, said it was \"absolutely horrendous\", and that the organization was misguided and could be leaving itself open to litigation in the future. Tony Geoghegan, CEO of drug addiction and homeless charity Merchants Quay Ireland, said it was inappropriate to sterilize addicts.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34629197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34629197", "title": "Public health system in India", "text": "Public health system in India\n\nThe modern public health system in India evolved due to a number of influences from the past 70 years, including British influence from the colonial period. The need for an efficient and effective public health system in India is large. 20% of all maternal deaths and 25% of all child deaths in the world occur in India. 34 out of 1000 children are dead by the time they reach the age of 5. 58% of Indians are immunized in urban areas compared to only 39% in rural areas. Communicable disease is the cause of death for 53% of all deaths in India.\n\nPublic health initiatives that affect people in all states, such as the National Mental Health Program, are instilled by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. There are multiple systems set up in rural and urban areas of India including Primary Health Centres, Community Health Centres, Sub Centres, and Government Hospitals. These agencies must follow the standards set by Indian Public Health Standards documents that are revised when needed. ter\n\nPublic health systems in the colonial period were focused on health care for British citizens that were living in India. The period saw research institutes, public health legislation, and sanitation departments, although only 3% of Indian households had toilets at this time. Annual health reports were released and the prevention of contagious disease outbreaks was stressed. At the end of the colonial period, death rates from infectious diseases such as cholera had fallen to a low, although other diseases were still rampant.\n\nIn modern day India, the spread of communicable diseases is under better control and now non-communicable diseases, especially cardiovascular diseases, are major killers. Health care reform was prioritized in the 1946 Bhore Committee Report which suggested the implementation of a health care system that was financed at least in part by the Indian government. In 1983 the first National Health Policy (NHP) of India was created with the goals of establishing a system with primary-care facilities and a referral system. In 2002, the updated NHP focused on improving the practicality and reach of the system as well as incorporating private and public clinics into the health sphere.\n\nPublic health funding has been directed to helping the middle and upper classes, as it targets creating more health professional jobs, expanding research institutions, and improving training. This creates unequal access to health care for the lower classes who do not receive the benefits of this funding. Today, states pay for about 75% of the public healthcare system but insufficient state spending neglects the public health system in India.\n\nThe healthcare system is organised into primary, secondary, and tertiary levels. At the primary level are Sub Centres and Primary Health Centres (PHCs). At the secondary level there are Community Health Centres (CHCs) and smaller Sub-District hospitals. Finally, the top level of public care provided by the government is the tertiary level, which consists of Medical Colleges and District/General Hospitals. The number of PHCs, CHCs, Sub Centres, and District Hospitals has increased in the past six years, although not all of them are up to the standards set by Indian Public Health Standards.\n\nA Sub Centre is designed to serve extremely rural areas with the expenses fully covered by the national government. Mandates require health staff to be at least two workers (male and female) to serve a population of 5000 people (or 3000 in a remote, dangerous location). Sub Centres also work to educate rural peoples about healthy habits for a more long-term impact.\n\nPrimary Health Centres exist in more developed rural areas of 30,000 or more (20,000 in remote areas) and serve as larger health clinics staffed with doctors and paramedics. Patients can be referred from local sub centres to PHCs for more complex cases. A major difference from Sub Centres is that state governments fund PHCs, not the national government. PHCs also function to improve health education with a larger emphasis on preventative measures.\n\nA Community Health Centre is also funded by state governments and accepts patients referred from Primary Health Centres. It serves 120,000 people in urban areas or 80,000 people in remote areas. Patients from these agencies can be transferred to general hospitals for further treatments. Thus, CHC's are also first referral units, or FRUs, which are required to have obstetric care, new born/childcare, and blood storage capacities at all hours everyday of the week.\n\nDistrict Hospitals are the final referral centres for the primary and secondary levels of the public health system. It is expected that at least one hospital is in each district of India, although in 2010 it was recorded that only 605 hospitals exist when there are 640 districts. There are normally anywhere between 75 to 500 beds, depending on population demand. These district hospitals often lack modern equipment and relations with local blood banks.\n\nAll India Institutes of Medical Sciences is owned and controlled by the central government. These are referral hospitals with specialized facilities. All India Institutes presently functional are AIMS New Delhi, AIIMS Bhopal, AIIMS Bhubaneshwar, AIIMS Jodhpur, AIIMS Raipur, and AIIMS Rishikesh. A Regional Cancer Centre is a cancer care hospital and research institute controlled jointly by the central and the respective state governments. Government Medical Colleges are owned and controlled by the respective state governments and also function as referral hospitals.\n\nIn 2006, the Public Health Foundation of India was started by the Prime Minister of India as both a private and public initiative. The goal of this organisation is to incorporate more public health policies and diverse professionals into the healthcare sphere. PHFI is also collaborating with international public health organisations to gather more knowledge and direct discussions around needs and improvements to the current system. Often times officials in policy making positions have a gap in their education about public health, and MPH and PhD programs in public health are lacking in their number of students and resources. PHFI aims to further these programs and educate more people in this field. The research discovered would be made transparent to the Indian public at large, so that the entire nation is aware of health standards in the country.\n\nDrawbacks to India's public health system today include low quality care, corruption, unhappiness with the system, a lack of accountability, unethical care, overcrowding of clinics, poor cooperation between public and private spheres, barriers of access to services and medicines, lack of public health knowledge, and low affordability. These drawbacks push wealthier Indians to use the private healthcare system, which is less accessible to low-income families, creating unequal medical treatment between classes.\n\nLow quality care is prevalent due to misdiagnosis, under trained health professionals, and the prescription of incorrect medicines. A study discovered a doctor in a PHC in Delhi who prescribed the wrong treatment method 50% of the time. Indians in rural areas where this problem is rampant are prevented from improving their health situation. Enforcement and revision of the regulations set by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare IPHS is also not strict. The 12th Five-Year Plan (India) dictates a need to improve enforcement and institutionalize treatment methods across all clinics in the nation in order to increase the quality of care. There is also a lack of accountability across both private and public clinics in India, although public doctors feel less responsibility to treat their patients effectively than do doctors in private clinics. Impolite interactions from the clinic staff may lead to less effective procedures.\n\nHealthcare professionals take more time off from work than the amount they are allotted with the majority of absences being for no official reason. India's public healthcare system pays salaries during absences, leading to excessive personal days being paid for by the government. This phenomenon is especially heightened in Sub Centres and PHCs and results in expenditure that isn't correlated to better work performance.\n\nClinics are overcrowded and understaffed without enough beds to support their patients. Statistics show that the number of health professionals in India is less than the average number for other developing nations. In rural Bihar the number of doctors is 0.3 for every 10,000 individuals. Urban hospitals have twice the number of beds than rural hospitals do but the number is still insufficient to provide for the large number of patients that visit. Sometimes patients are referred from rural areas to larger hospitals, increasing the overcrowding in urban cities.\n\n5% of visits to health practitioners are in private clinics or hospitals, many of which are paid for out of pocket. Money is spent on improving private services instead of on funding the public sector. Governmental failure to initiate and foster effective partnerships between the public and private healthcare spheres results in financial contracts that aren't negotiated to help the common man. These contracts would allow the private sector to finance projects to improve knowledge and facilities in the public sphere.\n\nBoth social and financial inequality results in barriers of access to healthcare services in India. Services aren't accessible for the disabled, mentally challenged, and elderly populations. Mothers are disadvantaged and in many rural areas there is a lack of abortion services and contraception methods. Public clinics often have a shortage of the appropriate medicines or may supply them at excessively high prices, resulting in large out of pocket costs (even for those with insurance coverage). Large distances prevent Indians from getting care, and if families travel the far distance there is low assurance that they will receive proper proper medical attention at that time.\n"}
{"id": "56232732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56232732", "title": "Regulation (EU) 1169/2011", "text": "Regulation (EU) 1169/2011\n\nRegulation (EU) 1169/2011 is the main law relating to food labelling in the European Union. There are other EU laws that specify the rules for particular types of foods.\n\nThe principles governing mandatory food information is in Article 4, and the list of mandatory particulars in Article 9. Any Union measure in the field of food information law which is likely to have an effect on public health shall be adopted after consultation with the European Food Safety Authority, per Article 5. Further, food information shall not be misleading, per Article 7. Rules on naming food are provided in Article 17.\n\nArticle 15 (language requirements) provides that “mandatory food information shall appear in a language easily understood by the consumers of the Member States where a food is marketed. [...] Within their own territory, the Member States in which a food is marketed may stipulate that the particulars shall be given in one or more languages from among the official languages of the Union.”\n"}
{"id": "57731576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57731576", "title": "Robert Moore Peile", "text": "Robert Moore Peile\n\nRobert Moore Peile (c.1760s - 4 February 1858) was the president of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) in 1798 and 1816.\n"}
{"id": "11427873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11427873", "title": "Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons", "text": "Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons\n\nThe Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons (RACDS) is a postgraduate professional education college established in 1965 to provide a broad range of activities to enhance the professional development of both general and specialist dentists through individually actioned studies and examinations which lead to Membership or Fellowship of the College. Its headquarters are in the Sydney CBD in Sydney, Australia.\n\nThe RACDS was established to promote high standards of postgraduate education in the dental profession, and to recognize general and specialist dental practitioners who have undertaken postgraduate training. Successful completion of college examinations may lead to Membership or Fellowship in the College (MRACDS or FRACDS) and/or may be used for licensure purposes.\n\nMembership or Fellowship may be awarded in the following disciplines:\n\n1. General Dental Practice.\n\n2. Specialist Dental Practice - Endodontics, Orthodontics, Periodontics, Paediatric Dentistry, Oral Medicine, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Special Needs Dentistry, and Dental Public Health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51068999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51068999", "title": "Russian hospital ship Vpered", "text": "Russian hospital ship Vpered\n\nHS \"Vpered\" () was a Russian hospital ship that was torpedoed by the Imperial German Navy submarine SM \"U-38\" on 8 July 1916.\n\nSS \"Vpered\" was built at the Stabilimento Tecnico shipyard in Trieste, Italy, in 1898 for Azov Black Sea Steamship Company. She was launched and completed in the same year. The ship was assessed at .\n\n\"Vpered\" was converted into a hospital ship when World War I broke out and operated in the Black Sea to evacuate wounded Russian soldiers from the Eastern Front.\n\nOn 8 July 1916, \"Vpered\" was torpedoed by the Imperial German Navy submarine SM \"U-38\" in the Black Sea between Rizeh and Batum. She sank shortly after. She was not carrying any wounded soldiers at the time, but seven people died in her sinking. Her survivors were saved a short time later.\n\nThe Russian Empire claimed that Ottoman forces sank \"Vperiod\" rather than the Germans. The Ottoman Empire replied that both ships were sunk by mines.\n"}
{"id": "5884956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5884956", "title": "Short rib – polydactyly syndrome", "text": "Short rib – polydactyly syndrome\n\nShort rib – polydactyly syndrome is a family of four closely related dysplasias:\n\n"}
{"id": "43384469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43384469", "title": "Sleep in fish", "text": "Sleep in fish\n\nWhether fish sleep is an intriguing question, to the point of having inspired the title of several popular science books. In birds and mammals, sleep is defined by eye closure and the presence of typical patterns of electrical activity in the brain, including the neocortex, but fish lack eyelids and a neocortex. Some species that always live in shoals or that swim continuously (because of a need for ram ventilation of the gills, for example) are suspected never to sleep. There is also doubt about certain blind species that live in caves.\n\nOther fish seem to sleep, however, especially when purely behavioral criteria are used to define sleep. For example, zebrafish, tilapia, tench, brown bullhead, and swell shark become motionless and unresponsive at night (or by day, in the case of the swell shark); Spanish hogfish and blue-headed wrasse can even be lifted by hand all the way to the surface without evoking a response. On the other hand, sleep patterns are easily disrupted and may even disappear during periods of migration, spawning, and parental care.\n\nInstead of examining brain activity for sleep patterns, an alternate approach is to examine any rest/activity cycles that might indicate \"behavioural sleep\". The following four behavioural criteria are characteristic of sleep in birds and mammals and could be extended to fishes: (1) prolonged inactivity; (2) typical resting posture, often in a typical shelter; (3) alternation with activity in a 24-h cycle; (4) high arousal thresholds. Based on these criteria, many fish species have been observed sleeping. The typical sleep posture of the brown bullhead is with the fins stretched out, the tail lying flat on the bottom, the body inclined to one side at an angle of 10-30 degrees to the vertical, the cardiac and respiratory frequencies much slower than normal, and much less sensitivity to sound and to being touched. Mozambique tilapia are motionless at the bottom at night, with a lower respiratory rate and no eye movement, and they do not respond as readily as during the day to electrical currents or food delivery. At night, Spanish hogfish, bluehead wrasse, the wrasse \"Halichoeres bivittatus\", the cunner \"Tautogolabrus adspersus\", and even requiem sharks, can be picked up by hand without eliciting a response. A 1961 observational study of approximately 200 species in European public aquaria reported many cases of apparent sleep. \n\nDivers can easily see fishes settling down for the night in typical shelters, such as holes and crevices, underneath ledges, amidst vegetation, inside sponges, or buried in sand. Some extra protection can be derived from special secretions, such as the mucous envelope produced by several species of wrasse and parrotfish, either around the fish themselves or at the opening of their shelter. These envelopes screen the sleeping fish from predators and ectoparasites.\n\nIn the laboratory, periods of inactivity often alternate with periods of activity on a 24-h basis, or a near 24-h basis when the lighting conditions are constant. Circadian rhythms of activity have been documented in over 40 different fish species, including hagfish, lamprey, sharks, cyprinids, ictalurids, gymnotids, salmonids, and labrids.\n\nOne physiological characteristic of sleep goes by the name of \"homeostatic regulation\". This is the notion that animals need a more or less constant amount of sleep every day, so that if a subject is deprived of sleep one day, the amount of sleep tends to \"rebound\" (increase) the next few days. This has been observed in zebrafish. At night, zebrafish appear to float in the water column, either horizontally or with the head slightly up. The frequency of mouth and gill movement is reduced by almost half and they are twice as hard to arouse as during the day. If they are deprived of this sleep-like behaviour, the sleep bouts thereafter are longer and the arousal threshold is higher than usual, suggesting a rebound effect. Similarly, in the convict cichlid, activity decreases on days that follow an experimental disruption of the fish's normal rest behaviour at night.\n\nMany pelagic fish species, such as bluefish, Atlantic mackerel, tuna, bonito, and some sharks, swim continuously and do not show signs, behavioural or otherwise, of sleep. It has been argued that one function of sleep is to allow the brain to consolidate into memory the things it has learned during the animal's normal period of activity. The brain might not be able to do this while still assailed by new stimuli and new information to process. Therefore the role of sleep would be to periodically shut down sensory input to allow the brain to form memories. Pelagic species swim in an environment that is rather boring (kilometers upon kilometers of open water with not much happening in it). In such species, the sensory input is so low that memory formation could take place even if the fish keeps on moving (a repetitive activity) and does not fall asleep in the traditional sense of the word.\n\nDiurnal damselfish normally sleep motionless in crevices within coral reefs at night, but three species (the green chromis, the marginate dascyllus and the whitetail dascyllus) spend the night between coral branches where they beat their fins at a rate about twice that of normal daytime swimming. This creates water currents that keep the inner zone of the coral (and thus the fish themselves) well oxygenated, at levels about four times higher than in the absence of the fish. Though the fish are active (mostly in a repetitive way), they do not respond to light or to the presence of potential predators. The researchers who documented this behaviour called it \"sleep-swimming\".\n\nSleep could also be absent during specific parts of a fish's life. Species normally quiescent at night become active day and night during the spawning season. Many parental species forego sleep at night and fan their eggs day and night for many days in a row. This has been observed in threespine stickleback, convict cichlid and rainbow cichlid, various species of damselfish, smallmouth bass and largemouth bass, and the brown bullhead. Some diurnal species, like the tautog \"Tautoga onitis\", become active day and night during migration. In the Mozambique tilapia, sleep has been observed in adults, but not in juveniles.\n\nSome species may be variable in the phasing of their daily activity/inactivity periods, and thus presumably of their sleep. Within the same laboratory populations of goldfish, some individuals may be spontaneously diurnal while others are nocturnal. Goldfish can also be diurnal if food is more available by day, or nocturnal if food is available at night. Salmon are mostly diurnal when temperature is high, but become more nocturnal if temperature plummets. At high latitudes, captive burbot, sculpin and brown bullhead are nocturnal in summer but become diurnal under the short photoperiod of the Arctic winter. In captivity, white sucker \"Catostomus commersonii\" are diurnal when living in a shoal but nocturnal when living alone.\n"}
{"id": "34344325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34344325", "title": "Small Molecule Pathway Database", "text": "Small Molecule Pathway Database\n\nThe Small Molecule Pathway Database (SMPDB) is a comprehensive, high-quality, freely accessible, online database containing more than 600 small molecule (i.e. metabolic) pathways found in humans. SMPDB is designed specifically to support pathway elucidation and pathway discovery in metabolomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and systems biology. It is able to do so, in part, by providing colorful, detailed, fully searchable, hyperlinked diagrams of five types of small molecule pathways: 1) general human metabolic pathways; 2) human metabolic disease pathways; 3) human metabolite signaling pathways; 4) drug-action pathways and 5) drug metabolism pathways. SMPDB pathways may be navigated, viewed and zoomed interactively using a Google Maps-like interface. All SMPDB pathways include information on the relevant organs, subcellular compartments, protein cofactors, protein locations, metabolite locations, chemical structures and protein quaternary structures (Fig. 1). Each small molecule in SMPDB is hyperlinked to detailed descriptions contained in the HMDB or DrugBank and each protein or enzyme complex is hyperlinked to UniProt. Additionally, all SMPDB pathways are accompanied with detailed descriptions and references, providing an overview of the pathway, condition or processes depicted in each diagram. Users can browse the SMPDB (Fig. 2) or search its contents by text searching (Fig. 3), sequence searching, or chemical structure searching. More powerful queries are also possible including searching with lists of gene or protein names, drug names, metabolite names, GenBank IDs, Swiss-Prot IDs, Agilent or Affymetrix microarray IDs. These queries will produce lists of matching pathways and highlight the matching molecules on each of the pathway diagrams. Gene, metabolite and protein concentration data can also be visualized through SMPDB's mapping interface.\n\nSMPDB is part of a suite of metabolomics databases that also includes Human Metabolome Database, DrugBank, and the Toxin and Toxin-Target Database (T3DB). While DrugBank includes information on 7000 drugs and >4200 non-redundant drug targets, enzymes, transporters, and carriers, HMDB houses over 40,000 small molecule metabolites found in the human body. The suite is complemented by T3DB with its over 3100 common toxic substances and over 1300 corresponding toxin targets.\n\nThe first version of SMPDB was released on January 1, 2010. This release contained more than 350 image-mapped pathways for small molecule pathways. The viewer interface was limited to scroll-bar image navigation with 3-step (small, medium, large) zooming. The pathways in this first version were limited to 1) human metabolic pathways; 2) human metabolic disease pathways; and 3) human metabolite signaling pathways. The second version of SMPDB was released in 2014. This version contained more than 620 small molecule pathways. The viewer interface was enhanced to include a Google-Map-like interface with click-n-drag image navigation and unlimited, interactive zooming. The pathways in this second version were expanded to include: 1) general human metabolic pathways; 2) human metabolic disease pathways; 3) human metabolite signaling pathways; 4) drug action pathways and 5) drug metabolism pathways.\n\n"}
{"id": "13406038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13406038", "title": "Social interaction approach", "text": "Social interaction approach\n\nThe Social interaction approach (SIA) is a type of brief therapy. It is characterised by the client being in charge of the therapy session as the counselor acts as a mediator. It is based on socio-communicative functions. It is useful in language advancement, where children cue their parents to supply appropriate language experiences. SIA provides efficient social communication at any point in child development.\n"}
{"id": "27004656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27004656", "title": "Spodden Valley asbestos controversy", "text": "Spodden Valley asbestos controversy\n\nThe Spodden Valley asbestos controversy arose in May 2004 when approximately of land in Spodden Valley in Rochdale, England, formerly used by Turner Brothers Asbestos Company (later known as Turner & Newall), and the site of the world's largest asbestos textile factory, was sold to MMC Estates, a property developer. The developer subsequently submitted a planning application to Rochdale Metropolitan Borough Council in December 2004 to build an \"urban village\" consisting of 650 homes, a children's daycare centre and a business park on the site. The planning application summary claimed: \"of particular note is the absence of any asbestos contamination\". However, asbestos containing materials were abundantly visible on the ground, and local residents claimed that there were numerous asbestos dumping sites across the area, and that the woodland there had been heavily contaminated with asbestos dust. Site clearance work had begun as early as May 2004, prior to the submission of the application, including tree felling and soil disturbance, and some waste had been removed on flatbed trailers and open trucks. In September 2005 MMC admitted that the woods were significantly contaminated with asbestos.\n\nA campaign group, Save Spodden Valley, was formed to oppose the development, claiming disturbance of the site in a contaminated state posed too great a risk to public health. Greater Manchester Association of Trade Unions Councils said: \"The planners must do their public duty and deem the site permanently unsafe for urban development and formulate a plan to seal all possible sources of asbestos dust as an urgent priority.\"\n\nThe initial planning application was placed on hold in 2005, and Richard Butler, Principal Planning Officer for Rochdale Borough Council said in October 2008: \"The application has not yet been determined and is suspended whilst the applicants and their consultants, together with our own contamination experts, assess a number of issues, the most important being the asbestos risk and the remediation required as part of the redevelopment.\" In December 2009, despite no decontamination work having been carried out, the council earmarked the site for 568 houses, based on a housing density of 30 dwellings per hectare, in a draft allocation of future brownfield land targets. In January 2010, however, the council deleted references to the redevelopment of the site. Simon Danzcuk, the Rochdale Labour Party parliamentary candidate, has warned that the council believe a housing development on the site is an inevitability and that they are \"sleepwalking into a catastrophic mistake.\" MMC have stated that \"there is no viable alternative to development led remediation of the site.\" A National Health and Safety Commissioner who was formerly a Health and Safety Manager at the factory has said that the felling of trees and disturbing of soil on the site is \"sheer madness... With the potential amount of asbestos on that site, no development should be built on this land.\" Hilda Palmer of the Greater Manchester Hazards Centre has said: \"Asbestos is a carcinogen and it causes lung diseases. When asbestos gets into the air and can be inhaled by people it can cause those diseases 10, 20, 50 years down the line. So if there is any development on that site there is a potential for serious lung diseases, cancers and death from that development.\" Spokesman Jason Addy of Save Spodden Valley, stated: \"The key issue is contamination. Asbestos from this site has killed far too many people already.\"\n\nThe planning application was finally officially rejected by Rochdale Council in January 2011. MMC Estates put the land back up for sale in August 2011. As of April 2014, the land was owned by Renshaw Properties, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands.\n\nThe manufacture of asbestos products began on the site in 1879, and by 1970 the factory had an annual output of 2,250,000 yards of asbestos cloth and of asbestos yarn. The dangerous nature of asbestos fibres had first been suspected in 1898, when Factory Inspector Lucy Deane reported: \"The evil effects of asbestos dust have also instigated a microscopic examination of the mineral dust by HM Medical Inspector [Thomas Legge]. Clearly revealed was the sharp glass-like jagged nature of the particles, and where they are allowed to rise and to remain suspended in the air of the room in any quantity, the effects have been found to be injurious as might have been expected.\" In 1924 a 33-year-old Turner's employee, Nellie Kershaw, became the first officially recognised victim of asbestosis but the firm refused to accept responsibility for her death, saying it would \"create a precedent\". Her family received no compensation, and she was buried in a pauper's grave in Rochdale.\n\nIn 1937, Turner's director Robert H. Turner wrote: \"All asbestos fibre dust is a danger to lungs. If we can produce evidence from this country that the industry is not responsible for any asbestosis claims, we may be able to avoid tiresome regulations and the introduction of dangerous occupational talk.\" Despite an awareness of the potentially lethal effects of asbestos, the factory site remained heavily contaminated: measurements taken in 1950 and again in 1957 showed levels of asbestos dust in the air outside the factory roof were between 18 and 60 particles per cubic centimetre - far above the company's own safe working level of 2 to 3 particles, while a measurement taken near houses outside the factory premises was 47 particles. In August 1957, Turner's revealed that they were dumping 15,000 lb (6.8 tonnes) of asbestos dust recovered from ventilation filters alone each week. The same document reported that the levels of asbestos dust on the factory's roof exceeded those in the actual production areas inside the factory. In the 1950s people living near the factory joked that the area had frost all year round and the local woods were nicknamed \"the snow trees\" due to the permanent dusting with asbestos particles.\n\nIn 1964 a letter to Turner's directors from solicitors James Chapman & Co admitted: \"We have over the years been able to talk our way out of claims or compromise for comparatively small amounts, but we have always recognised that at some stage solicitors of experience would, with the advance in medical knowledge and the development of the law, recognise there is no real defence to these claims and take us to trial.\" By the mid-1970s however the number of asbestos-related deaths began to increase steadily and from 1980 onwards the asbestos market began to decline dramatically. In 1982 the company posted losses of £30million, including compensation payouts of £6million. In 1998, with 263,000 claims for industrial injury pending, Turner's was bought by Federal-Mogul. In 2001, Federal-Mogul filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos-related claims amounting to $351million. In the United Kingdom the business went into administration in October 2001 leaving a pension fund deficit estimated at £400 million. UK victims of the company's asbestos pollution were offered only a fraction of the compensation to which they were entitled. The weaving and asbestos producing areas of the Spodden Valley site were subsequently demolished in 2001.\n\nMMC Estates and Rathbone Jersey Limited purchased the site in May 2004, and said: \"Any successful regeneration must find alternative uses and following discussions with the council, the site was defined as an 'area of opportunity' for a mixed use 'urban village' type development, comprising primarily employment and residential development supported by an appropriate level of ancillary uses. This will be supported by an environmental impact statement. MMC is a local developer responsible for the sympathetic council-backed regeneration of other sites within the borough, and has commenced some clearance works involving the felling of trees which are not protected by tree preservation orders.\" A Rochdale Council Draft Unitary Development Plan published earlier in the year had accepted that \"the whole site is contaminated as a result of the industrial processes carried out there\" and Administrators of Turner's considered the site \"an asset of dubious value, (possibly even a liability).\" The Administrators also stated that if mesothelioma or asbestos-related cancer deaths arose from any future development on the site, the liability for this would rest with the new owners and developers of the land.\n\nBetween May 13–14, 2004 the site was enclosed with temporary mesh fencing and plain-clothed security guards commenced patrols of the public areas. At 02:00 on May 15 bulldozers arrived at the site and tree-felling began at 07:00. The work caused immediate concern to nearby residents who feared the work might unsettle asbestos deposits in the ground. Residents formed the Save Spodden Valley action group the following week. Residents also protested to Rochdale Council, which subsequently issued an emergency tree preservation order on six parts of the site, preventing the removal of trees without permission of planning officers, and carrying a fine of up to £20,000 per tree. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) also secured a voluntary arrangement to halt any work that could disturb soil on the site pending soil sampling. Former Turner's employees and local residents claimed that, as recently as the 1960s, asbestos dust and fibres were clearly visible hanging from the trees, and that a disused coalmine shaft exposed by the tree felling had been used over a period of decades to dump hundreds of tonnes of asbestos waste.\n\nIn November 2004 Rochdale councillor Tom Stott, a former employee at Turner's, warned that any development of the site could be an environmental disaster, and that there could be so much asbestos waste in the ground that serious disturbance could lead to \"Rochdale's Chernobyl.\" He also expressed concern that the developers would be allowed by the council to carry out their own contamination survey to determine whether the site was fit for development, which was confirmed by the council: \"Any developers would have to provide a full environmental assessment of the site as part of their planning application. The council wouldn't be doing any surveys of its own because it doesn't have the expertise or the resources to do this.\"\n\nIn December 2004 plans were submitted, in partnership with Countryside Properties, to build an 'urban village' over two-thirds of the site, comprising residential and business developments, a retail site and doctor's surgery. MMC director Mark Russell stated that the plans were in 'everyone's interests' and would be carried out without harming the environment or causing problems with old asbestos: \"At the end of the day this is a contaminated site with lots of old, ugly, dilapidated buildings on and it needs something doing with it. It is in everyone's interests that this happens. There is not any danger of asbestos.\" The planning application summary claimed: \"of particular note is the absence of any asbestos contamination\". A report submitted by the developers said only one out of the 86 soil tests they carried out showed any traces of asbestos dust, and that traces of lead and copper were more prevalent on the site. A working party of six councillors expressed concern that many areas on the site might have been unchecked, however, and Councillor Elwyn Watkins said that he had personally observed asbestos containing materials hanging on trees when he joined campaigners on the north side of the site. Heavy winds in January 2005 felled several trees, revealing asbestos-like fibres on the exposed roots. Residents eventually had the waste tested themselves at an independent laboratory where it was confirmed to be Amosite (\"brown asbestos\"), the most hazardous of the asbestos minerals because of its long persistence in the lungs of exposed people.\n\nIn April 2005, following the confirmation of asbestos fibres found on tree roots, the council asked developers to provide more detailed information relating to their contaminated land surveys, and placed the application on hold. They also announced that they were considering appointing their own environmental consultants to examine the site. Jason Addy said: \"This is what we have been asking for since day one. The information handed in with the planning application was inaccurate, misleading and avoided many issues. As this site begins to reveal more of its murky secrets people are realising just how contaminated it is. We are very concerned about the asbestos contamination on the site. We are very worried about the way this is going, if it wasn't so serious it would be a farce.\" Rochdale councillor William Hobhouse said: \"With no government regulations specifying safe levels of asbestos in soil, it is clear the council, working with outside consultants, will have to formulate what percentage of asbestos in the soil is safe.\"\n\nIn May 2005 the Save Spodden Valley group claimed that it had uncovered internal MMC correspondence which identified numerous sites where asbestos fibres had been found in September 2004, predating the planning application. The document stated: \"The audit undertaken was visual and no samples have been sent away for analysis. I enclose a site map where the asbestos has been located: Top section of road near hair pin bend, asbestos sheets and asbestos fibre found in tree stumps. Road leading to Healey Dell, asbestos cloth.\" The developers responded that they had been aware of contamination in the northern portion of the site, but their testing report submitted to the council did not include this area as there had been no intention to develop there. Instead they had confined their testing only to those areas where they intended to develop and that there had been \"some misunderstanding of our intentions and the test result.\"\n\nHSE tests on building rubble carried out on the site in March 2005 were revealed in July 2005, and demonstrated the presence of significant contamination. Paul Rowen MP, the Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Rochdale, raised the issue and the results in a House of Commons debate on 28 June 2005. He said: \"At the request of residents, the Health and Safety Commission recently tested rubble from parts of the factory buildings on the site. Of the eight samples tested, three confirmed the existence of asbestos of up to 1%, which is 10 times higher than the proportion ensuring that waste is classed as special waste. Yet in his planning submission, the developer stated: \"Of particular note is the absence of any asbestos contamination\"; and in a meeting with local councillors earlier this year, he and his expert witness said that the tests on the rubble had all been negative. For the past 10 months, open wagons have been transporting that rubble around the borough to unknown places, and subject to no control... This case involves a development costing up to £100 million for which the developer has so far paid Rochdale Council a £5,500 planning application fee. For that, the council is expected to carry out all the checks and controls to ensure that the developer is acting honourably.\"\n\nIn August 2005 a second report commissioned by the developers, from Encia Environmental, revealed levels of asbestos fibres in two soil samples from the site at 1.3% and 2.3%, 13 and 23 times above the limit at which waste is deemed \"hazardous\". A level of 3% is categorised as \"toxic\". Regarding the developers earlier assertions that they had not intended to develop the controversial northern section, council planning officer Ken Smith claimed that the developers had been told they would have to submit a planning application for the whole of the site, which would have to show any asbestos tests and plans for removal, and not just selected portions. \"They were clearly told remediation work must take place on the whole of the site,\" he said. \"It's been quite clear it was 72 acres and not [just] part of that site.\"\n\nMMC Estates and Countryside Properties subsequently released statements in September 2005 acknowledging that there was significant contamination on the site. Michael Drogan, director of MMC, said: \"Following the completion of investigations, which have now been published, we recognise there is significant asbestos contamination in areas of the woodland and have evidence of pockets of contamination in other parts of the site.\" Rochdale councillor Tom Stott responded: \"In their initial reports they said there was little contamination. Now it is 'significant'. I am shocked that it has taken so long for the companies to admit what we have known for over 12 months.\"\n\nA brochure produced by MMC and Countryside Properties, entitled \"Regeneration of Spodden Valley Community News Autumn 2005\", and distributed to 50,000 households in the area, was determined by the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) to have breached a code of honesty and truthfulness, and was misleading when it claimed:\nThe ASA advised MMC to \"take greater care when producing marketing communications in future\", and \"to ensure that they held full substantation before making similar claims.\"\n\nThe report commissioned from Atkins Global by Rochdale council, at a cost of £80,000, was published in July 2006 and claimed that previous tests on the land, carried out on behalf of the developers, were not thorough enough, and that extensive work would be required before councillors should even consider the controversial planning application. Atkins Global also claimed that the majority of the developers' tests did not detect the true levels of asbestos in the soil. The report concluded that \"the presence of asbestos cannot be ruled out across much of the site.\" In June 2007, Countryside Properties withdrew from the joint planning application. MMC released a statement saying: \"Countryside Properties Ltd has withdrawn from the planning application for a mixed use scheme on the former Turner Brothers site because they became disillusioned with the apparent unwillingness of the town planning department to deal with the application as a result of the ill-founded and negative publicity generated by Jason Addy's campaign. The people of Rochdale should keep in mind that the site owners have not caused the contamination problems on the site. This was inherited from Federal Mogul... If we were to cave in to Jason Addy's uninformed scaremongering and let him have his way, which we most certainly won't, the site would remain a contaminated eyesore on the face of Rochdale in eternity, and all the surrounding houses and properties will be devalued by his badly thought out obsession.\"\n\nAs of 2010, the site remains undeveloped and no significant remediation or decontamination work has been undertaken.\n\nThe ruling in the Corby toxic waste case, delivered in July 2009, found Corby Borough Council liable in negligence, public nuisance and a breach of statutory duty for its reclamation of a steel works and the resulting atmospheric contamination. The case against the council cited: \"The Defendant's urban land reclamation programme and the presence of poisonous waste presented a significant risk to health. The poisonous waste was ultra hazardous and various sites contained substantial quantities of contaminated waste and toxic materials that were likely to cause personal injuries to persons in the surrounding area in the event of their escape.\" While recognising that there was insufficient epidemiological data to establish whether the victims' injuries arose from a \"common cause\", or from airborne contamination or from the reclamation works, the judge ruled that there was a \"statistically significant cluster\" of birth defects in Corby which needed \"explanation other than chance\": it was not the court's purpose to establish whether the victims were individually exposed to contaminants from the reclamation, rather to determine whether any relevant breach of duty had the ability to cause injuries of the type complained of. The judge also ruled that it was \"reasonably foreseeable that the local population might be exposed to hazardous or contaminated substances\" as a result of the council's clean-up programme.\n\nMatt Townsend, head of the environmental practice at Allen & Overy, says: \"One of the important lessons from the case is that because of the rapidly evolving nature of environmental science and advancing knowledge and techniques, it will no longer be possible for developers to hide behind the science. To claim that you didn’t know is now unacceptable.\". Stephen Matthew, a partner in the project group at corporate law firm Nabarro, advises: \"Councils and regeneration bodies still need to be very open and clear about how they intend to deal with material on brownfield sites. Councils need to take professional advice... Don't leave a gaping hole for any future class actions.\"\n\nFollowing the Corby ruling, Jason Addy stated: \"The Corby ruling could have huge implications for the actions and responsibilities of Rochdale Council for the Spodden Valley site. Environmental pollution has been a problem at the Rochdale factory with acknowledged cases of asbestos-related cancer caused by environmental exposure.\" Laurie Kazan Allen, Editor of the British Asbestos Newsletter, said: \"This landmark decision has ramifications for Rochdale Council regarding the Spodden Valley asbestos factory site. There is now a clear legal principle that local authorities hold a duty of care to protect communities from the hazardous effects of disturbing contaminated land. Since at least the 1960s there has been clear evidence that the inhalation of asbestos fibres, even in low quantities, can cause terminal cancer decades after initial exposure. Rochdale Council must take heed of this historic decision and act to protect local people.\"\n\nHilda Palmer of the Greater Manchester Hazards Centre said: \"This has serious implications for Rochdale MBC in its management and control of the ex T&N site. The site is known to be extensively contaminated with the known carcinogen asbestos, which may be released into the air whenever the site is disturbed, and the invisible microscopic fibres spread in the air across the area to be inhaled by people, including children who are especially at risk of developing asbestos related terminal cancers such as mesothelioma years later. These facts are not in dispute and though the owner of the site is the responsible duty holder, the court judgment on Corby Council confirms the duty of care of a council as the planning authority and environmental health authority in terms of managing and controlling the risks to long term health presented by the airborne asbestos fibres from this site.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25453068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25453068", "title": "Suruga Sanatorium", "text": "Suruga Sanatorium\n\nAfter the start of the Second Sino-Japanese War (July 7, 1937- ), wounded soldiers became problematic and Matsuki Miyazaki proposed in 1937 that those who developed leprosy, during military service, should be given treatment and pension in the same degree as those who developed tuberculosis during service. \n\nThe following is a timeline of events:\n\nThe number of in-patients varied depending on admissions, deaths, escapes and discharges.\n\nThe site covered . The buildings covered \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7617275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7617275", "title": "The Clean Air Campaign", "text": "The Clean Air Campaign\n\nThe Clean Air Campaign is a not-for-profit organization that motivates Georgians to take action to improve air quality and reduce traffic congestion. The organization was formed in 1996 by government, business, civic, health, environmental and educational organizations to address traffic congestion and air quality issues in the metro Atlanta region.\n\nUntil 2014, The Clean Air Campaign received 80 percent of its funding from U.S. Department of Transportation Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement (CMAQ) Program funds. Today, The Clean Air Campaign secures private funding through corporate and foundation grants to deploy demand management programs and services to employers, commuters and schools.\n\nThe Clean Air Campaign was formed in 1996 following an initiative by Atlanta business, civic, environmental and political leaders which led to less traffic and air pollution during the 1996 Olympics. The non-profit organization, which celebrated its 15th anniversary in the summer of 2011, fulfills its education efforts today through mass advertising, public relations and community outreach. Their education efforts are part of a statewide strategic approach to improve mobility and air quality, bringing public and private sector interests together.\n\nThe Clean Air Campaign works with employers in the region, given that high concentrations of employees commuting to a common destination during peak travel periods are a high-value audience for their programs. According to a 2010 survey conducted by the Center for Transportation and the Environment on behalf of the Georgia Department of Transportation, 82 percent of metro Atlanta commuters drive alone to and from work. . The greater means and resources of employers versus individual commuters opens up a broader range of solutions to their commute issues.\n\nThe Clean Air Campaign's principal method of engaging employers is through their general Employer Partnership Program. Campaign experts design a commute alternative program tailored to the specific needs of the employer based on workforce size, operating hours, office access to public transit and an array of other factors.\n\nCampaign staff are then able to assist the employer with employee outreach through programs such as onsite \"transportation fairs,\" educational sessions and assistance in taking advantage of available alternative commute incentives.\n\nThe Clean Air Campaign develops alternative work arrangements typically to augment an alternative commute program. Telework, compressed work weeks and flextime are all viable options employed to reduce the number of instances in which employees must commute to work during peak traffic hours or inclement weather conditions. This element of The Clean Air Campaign's program is unique in that it aims to assist with business continuity planning as much as transportation demand management and air pollution mitigation. This program has also proved critical to employers whose workforces are affected by Atlanta's frequent road and highway closures.\n\nAs one of the leading American cities when it comes to wireless and broadband internet access, the Atlanta metro area stands to benefit economically from the expanded adoption of telework. Based on 2010 survey data, 600,000 metro Atlanta employees telework occasionally and another 245,000 employees do not have permission from their employer to telework but believe their job function would allow it. Clean Air Campaign has lobbied to keep Georgia's telework tax credit in place, as well as assists businesses in taking advantage of these available funds.\n\nThe One Ton Challenge is a statewide effort to encourage commuters to use a commute alternative. By tying a measurable and easily understandable amount of impact on the environment (one ton of atmospheric pollutants conserved) to a clear and consistent call to action (one alternative commute to work per week) this challenge attempts to provide a more tangible, less abstract illustration of the environmental benefits provided by alternative commute options.\n\nThe challenge derives from the fact that an individual commuter in metro Atlanta is capable of eliminating a full ton of atmospheric pollutants simply by using an alternative commuting method once per week. The average round-trip commute distance in Atlanta is 40 miles. It is estimated that one pound of atmospheric pollution is emitted per mile driven in a conventional vehicle. By eliminating one commute per week, or roughly 52 commutes per year, the average Atlantan would keep 2,080 lbs., or slightly over one ton, of pollution out of the air.\n\nOver 3,600 commuters participated in the challenge in 2008, the program's first year.\n\nIn 2004, The Clean Air Campaign introduced Clean Air Schools, an education outreach program that engages the entire school community in improving air quality. Initially offered to a select group of elementary schools in the 20-county metro Atlanta region, the program was expanded in 2008 to include middle and high schools statewide and the name changed to Clean Air Schools.\n\nToday, the Clean Air Schools program focuses on two teen-targeted programs: Get There Green, a high school transportation planning challenge, and OnAir, a clean air site (www.blogonair.org) and social media initiative that rewards teens with 'AirCreds' for taking clean transportation modes and completing other air-friendly tasks.\n\n"}
{"id": "11035626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11035626", "title": "Upington disease", "text": "Upington disease\n\nUpington disease, also called Perthes-like hip disease, enchondromata, ecchondromata, and familial dyschondroplasia, is an extremely rare autosomal dominant malformation disorder. It has only one published source claiming its existence in three generations of one family from South Africa.\n\nThe disease is characterized by Perthes-like pelvic anomalies (premature closure of the capital femoral epiphyses and widened femoral necks with flattened femoral heads), enchondromata and ecchondromata.\n\nUpington disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means the defective gene is located on an autosome, and one copy of the defective gene is sufficient to cause the disorder, when inherited from a parent who has the disorder.\n\nThe name Upington refers to the city in the Northern Cape Province, South Africa from where the family originates.\n"}
{"id": "30200320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30200320", "title": "Uzi-Eli Hezi", "text": "Uzi-Eli Hezi\n\nUzi-Eli Hezi (), also known as The Etrog Man is an Israeli market vendor who also claims to be an inventor, farmer, healer, and spiritual advisor. \nUzi-Eli was born in Yemen in 1942 and was airlifted to Israel in the 1950 Operation Magic Carpet. He is a third generation healer. While he is a student of the medicine of the Rambam, most of his recipes come to him in dreams.\n\nHe owns a booth at the Mahane Yehuda Market in the Nachlaot neighborhood of Jerusalem. He is noted for his use of Maimonidean and ancient remedies in his juices and cosmetics, particularly from the etrog. Two of his more popular drinks include \"etrogat\", a combination of the etrog and the gat leaf and \"Rambam's drink\", a mixture of dates and bitter and sweet almonds, along with other drinks which are labeled with various alleged health benefits.\n"}
{"id": "58612858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58612858", "title": "Vismia baccifera", "text": "Vismia baccifera\n\nVismia baccifera is a tropical plant used by indigenous peoples in South America, in Colombian Amazon as well as Brazil, infused as traditional medicine. It has been demonstrated to have great antitumor capability in kidney and liver by inducing massive oxidative stress in cancer cells, but not healthy cells, leading to rapid death of cancer cells.\n"}
{"id": "23615651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23615651", "title": "World Association for Sexual Health", "text": "World Association for Sexual Health\n\nThe World Association for Sexual Health (WAS) is an international umbrella organization representing sexological societies and sexologists worldwide. Founded in 1978 in Rome, Italy, the WAS main goal is to promote sexual health for all through sexological science. Since its beginning, the WAS has successfully sponsored 19 international congresses, the last one being held in Gothenburg, Sweden, from June 21 to June 25, 2009. The WAS was previously named World Association for Sexology, but changed its name in order to stress that sexology is a tool for achieving sexual health.\n\nFive prominent Regional Continental Federations are members of the WAS: The Asia and Oceania Federation of Sexology (AOFS), the European Federation of Sexology (EFS), the Latin American Federation of Sexology and Sexual Education (FLASSES), the North American Federation of Sexuality Organizations (NAFSO), and the African Federation for Sexual Health and Rights (AFSHR).\n\nWAS members also include more than 100 national and international sexological organizations, institutes and foundations. Among the sexological societies belonging to WAS, we can find: the International Academy of Sex Research, the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States (SIECUS), the Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS), the Society for the Advancement of Sexual Health, South Asia Institute for Human Sexuality (SAIHS), the American Association of Sex Educators, Counselors, & Therapists (AASECT) and the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH).\n\nWAS is governed by an Executive Committee, Officers and an Advisory Committee\n\nExecutive Committee\n\nAssociate Secretaries\n\nPresidents of the Regional Federations\n\nWAS Advisory Committee = Executive Committee members and:\n\nEx-Officio Members\n\nPast Presidents of WAS:\n\nCommittee Chairs:\n\nDeclaration of Sexual Rights, Definitions of Professional Specialties, Educación para la sexualidad con bases científicas - Documento de consenso de Madrid, Guiding Ethical Principles, International Standards for Sexual Medicine Specialists (Physicians & Surgeons), International Standards of Practice for Sexual Counselors and Sexual Psychotherapists, International Standards of Practice for Sexuality Educators and Sexual Health Promotion, Abundant evidence shows that young people's attitudes toward gender affect their risk of HIV infection, unintended pregnancy, and intimate partner violence, Education can change people's attitudes, Montreal Declaration, Promotion of Sexual Health Recommendations for Action (PAHO), Science based Sexuality Education-Madrid Consensus Paper, Statutes and Bylaws, Working Definitions after WHO Technical Consultation on Sexual Health\n\nOn 2010, the WAS instituted September 4 as the World Sexual Health Day in an effort to increase social awareness about the role that sexuality plays in human health, and to promote the fact that sexual health is only attainable through sexual rights.\n\nThe theme of the 2010 World Sexual Health Day was \"Let's talk about it... an intergenerational discussion\", thus, activities around the world had the objective of creating dialogue between youth and adults about sexual health.\n\nMore than 25 countries joined the celebration, among them: Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, Argentina, Puerto Rico, Sweden, Japan, Italy, Spain, Austria, etc.\n\nThe Second World Sexual Health Day took place on September 4, 2011, with the theme \"Youth's sexual health: Shared rights and responsibilities\" in order to celebrate the beginning of the WAS Youth Initiative and the ending of the International Year of Youth.\n\nAnd the Third one took place on September 4 (also throughout the month of September) with the theme of \" Celebrating diversity\". More than 40 countries participated. Their reports are available through WSHD-Global page 2012 on Face Book http://www.facebook.com/pages/World-Sexual-Health-Day-The-Global-Page/117746971636978\n\nMore information about the World Sexual Health Day (WSHD) are available on http://www.worldsexology.org/news/world-sexual-health-day/\n\nThe World Association for Sexual Health (WAS) has two categories of membership, Organisational and Individual. Both categories enjoy all the privileges of membership with the exception that Individual Members do not have the right to vote. You Can read more here.\n\nI. Societies, Institutes and Other Organisations\n\nA society or institute whose main interest is in the area of sexology may apply for admission as a member of the World Association for Sexual Health. The application to become a member may be submitted through this page. The application should include the completed form and have attached the following material.\n\nA copy of the governing body's approved resolution to apply to WAS for admission.\nA complete list of the names and addresses of the members\nPayment of the fees as indicated below\n\nII. Individual Members\n\nA person who works or has an interest in an area sexology may apply for admission as an Individual Member of WAS.\n\nIII. All applications should be accompanied by two letters of recommendation, issued by individuals or organizations recognized by the World Association for Sexology.\n\nIV. Payment should be made according to the table below. It is preferred that dues are paid through the PayPal system on this site. If this is not possible, please forward a cheque in American dollars to the Secretary General/Treasurer at the address that appears below. Cheques should be made payable to the World Association for Sexual Health. We regret that we cannot accept foreign currency or personal cheques.\n\nThe Declaration of Sexual Rights was first proclaimed on the 13th World Congress of Sexology in Valencia 1997 and revised at the 14th World Congress of Sexology in Hong Kong 1999. The current version is from 2014.\n\nThis Declaration gave an influence on The Yogyakarta Principles, especially on the idea of each person's integrity, right to issues of sexuality, including the whole spectrum of Sexual and reproductive health and rights.\n\nThe Pan American Health Organization (an office of the World Health Organization) convened a Regional Consultation on sexual health in collaboration with WAS in Antigua Guatemala, Guatemala in May 2000. The consultation resulted in a document entitled: Promotion for Sexual Health. Recommendations for Action, in which a conceptual framework for the promotion of sexual health is developed.\n\nRecently, the WAS established its Youth Initiative, in an effort to contribute to youth's sexual health and sexual rights through a fuller participation of Youth in WAS governance, policies and activities. The WAS Youth Initiative was proposed and developed by a 22-year-old Mexican sexual health advocate and sexologist, Antón Castellanos Usigli, mentored by Esther Corona, WAS Executive Coordinator, making it an International Youth Initiative conceived by a young mind.\n\nThe WAS Youth Initiative Committee, Co-Chaired by Antón Castellanos Usigli and Esther Corona, and composed by 10 members belonging to Venezuela, Lebanon, Cuba, Chile, Sweden, Italy, Kenya, Australia and India is the organ within WAS that develops the Initiative. The Second World Sexual Health Day, which took place on September 4, 2011, celebrated young people's sexual health and rights because of the WAS Youth Initiative and the International Year of Youth.\n\nThe official journal of the World Association for Sexual Health is the \"International Journal of Sexual Health\", is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers research on sexual health as a state of physical, emotional, mental, and social well-being.\n\n"}
