{"id": "1935385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1935385", "title": "Adverbial phrase", "text": "Adverbial phrase\n\nIn linguistics, an adverbial phrase (\"AdvP\") is a multi-word expression operating adverbially: its syntactic function is to modify other expressions, including verbs, adjectives, adverbs, adverbials, and sentences. Adverbial phrases can be divided into two types: complement adverbs versus modifier adverbs. For example, in the sentence \"She sang very well\", the expression \"very well\" is an adverbial phrase, as it modifies the verb \"sing\". More specifically, the adverbial phrase \"very well\" contains two adverbials, \"very\" and \"well\": while \"well\" modifies the verb to convey information about the manner of singing (for example, \"She sang well\" versus \"She sang badly\"), \"very\" is a degree modifier that conveys information about the degree to which the action of singing well was accomplished (for example, \"Not only did she sing well, she sang very well\").\n\nThe following examples illustrate some of the most common types of adverbial phrases. All adverbial phrases appear in bold; when relevant, the head of each adverbial phrase appears in square brackets.\n\nThe heads of each of the following adverbial phrases are degree adverbials (written \"Deg\" in syntactic trees). Degree adverbials modify adjacent adverbs (that is, an adverb that is lower in the syntactic tree than the degree adverbial). Degree adverbials are commonly used in English to convey the intensity, degree, or focusing of an adjacent adverb. In most cases, a degree adverbial is used to modify an adverb in an adverbial phrase: for example, in (1) the degree adverbial \"very\" modifies the adverb \"quickly\"; in (2) the degree adverbial \"extremely\" modifies the adverb \"hard\"; in (3) the degree adverbial \"really\" modifies the adverb \"well\"; and in (4), the degree adverbial \"so\" modifies the adverb \"soon\".\n\nModifier adverbial phrases combine with a sentence, and the removal of the adverbial phrase yields a well-formed sentence. For example, in (5) the modifier adverbial phrase \"in an hour\" can be removed, and the sentence remains well-formed (e.g., \"I'll go to bed\"); in (6) the modifier AdvP \"three hours late\" can be omitted, and the sentence remains well-formed (e.g., \"We arrived\"); and in (7), the modifier AdvP \"later in the day\" can be omitted, and the sentence remains well-formed (e.g. \"The situation had resolved\"). Just as adjective phrases function attributively to give additional information about an adjacent noun, the modifier adverbial phrases illustrated in (5) to (7) function as secondary predicates that give additional temporal information about the sentence.\n\nAs mentioned above, complement adverbial phrases are much less common than their modifier counterparts. Adverbial phrases functioning as complements usually arise when an adverb licenses a complement as a selectional requirement. Nearly all of these complements license an adjoining prepositional phrase. Below are a few examples of complement adverbial phrases.\n\nThe following sentences illustrate the difference between adverbs, adverbial phrases, and adverbial clauses. In the first example, \"soon\" is an adverb (as distinct from a noun or a verb), which is a type of adverbial. In the second sentence, the modifier \"in an hour\" has the same syntactic function (that is, to act adverbially and modify the base of the sentence \"I'll go to bed\"), though it does not contain an adverb. This modifier consists of a preposition and a determiner phrase, and functions as an adverbial, thus making it an adverbial phrase. In the third example, we see a whole clause functioning as an adverbial; it is termed an adverbial clause.\n\nFunctionally, the term adverbial refers to all structures that can take the position of an adverb on a phrase structure level.Adverbs modify the functional categories that occur in a sentence and may also be treated as predicates which are functionally open and require one or more arguments to be satisfied. It has been argued that the distribution of adverbs is largely conditioned by their lexical nature or thematic properties.\n\nMain classes of adverbials are used to distinguish the functional properties of the adverbs within the phrase. Each class has subcategories, that refer more specifically to the syntactic and semantic properties of the adverbial.There is no distinct terminology for these classes used universally in literature, though adverbials are often classified into their functional categories. The major classes of adverbials are adjunct, disjunct and conjunct.\nThe class of subjunct is usually placed within adjunct class as it is difficult to distinguish between the two.\n\nThe subcategories for adverbials have more universally used terminology and often refer to the nature of the adverb within each phrase. Most literature focuses on the specific categories of adjunct adverbials.\n\nAdjunct adverbials are the most often discussed class of adverbials, when discussing distribution in English. Complement adverbials are also seen to display similar attributes as adjuncts. Distinguishing between these is a matter of the overt realization of the phrase and is discussed below. The most recognizable subcategories for adjunct adverbials would be.:\n\nConjunct adverbials, sometimes called linking adverbials, are used to connect clauses together and surface in a clause-initial position in English.\n\nDisjunct adverbials, also refereed to as modal adverbials, have subcategories which relay a speakers interpretation of what appears lower in the clause.\n\nSubjunct adverbials are not often discussed as a class of its own in literature. As the distinction of these subcategories as subjunctive depend on the role the adverbial takes within the phrase, a subordinate role, and when not in this structure will be in the adjunct class.\n\nAdverbials can be adjuncts, complements, conjuncts, or disjuncts. Most commonly, adverbial phrases are either complements or adjuncts. Adjunct adverbial phrases provide additional information and are part of the structure of the clause, but are optional. Complements are elements of an utterance that complete the meaning of the noun or sentence in which it is being used. Unlike adjuncts, they are necessary to complete the meaning of a given sentence. Adverbial complement is the term used to identify an adverbial phrase that is necessary to the meaning of the verb or utterance. Adverbial complements always appear after the verb that they modify. If the verb is intransitive, the complement will appear directly after the verb; if the verb is transitive, the complement will appear after the verb’s direct object.\n\nA test to identify whether or not an adverbial phrase is a complement or adjunct is to remove the phrase in question from the sentence. If the sentence no longer makes sense or if its meaning is altered heavily, then the adverbial element is a complement. If the meaning is still intact, it is an adjunct.\n\nOne phenomenon occurring frequently in sentences that involve adverbial phrases is adverbial fronting, where the adverbial phrase moves to the front of a sentence. \n\nLiliane Haegeman has done considerable work on both this phenomenon, as well as comparing the movement of adverbial phrases to this syntactic position to typical movement and topicalization of arguments. Haegeman mentions that there is a difference between fronted adjuncts (in this case, adverbial phrases) and topicalized arguments. Adverbial phrases behave as adjuncts, and that serves as particularly useful in discussions regarding adverbial phrases and their movement, as well as their integration into syntactic structure.\n\nThere are three primary reasons, according to Haegeman, why topicalized arguments and fronted adjuncts differ.\n\n1. Fronted arguments block subject extraction, while fronted adjuncts do not. \nThis is displayed in the following examples, which are given in \"Notes on Long Adverbial Fronting in English and the Left Periphery\":\n\n\n2. Topicalized arguments determine island effects on extraction, while fronted adjuncts do not. What this means is that arguments cannot be extracted from an island and thereby fronted, whereas adjuncts, in this case adverbial phrases, can be extracted and fronted.\n\n3. English fronted arguments are restricted to root clauses, while adjuncts are not. \nIn regards to main and embedded clauses, topicalization of arguments cannot occur from an embedded to a root clause. However, adjuncts are free to make this movement and are not restricted by embedded clauses.\n\nThis third distinction between topicalized arguments and fronted adjuncts lends itself well to an explanation of long and short adverb fronting. Short adverb fronting is fronting of an adjunct such as an adverb within one clause, while long adverb fronting involves movement of an adjunct from a position in the embedded clause to a position in the root clause. \n\nAccording to Haegeman, instances of long adverb fronting appear to behave like fronted arguments, adhering to the three distinctions not typically expected of adjuncts such as adverbial phrases. This is shown, Haegeman argues, as extracted adjuncts behave similarly to topicalized arguments in that long adjunct fronting blocks subject extraction, while short adjunct fronting does not. Additionally, in long adjunct fronting, long adjunct fronting means that the constituent which moves may change the meaning of the sentence or make it ungrammatical.\n\nIt has also been proposed that temporal adverbial clauses, giving \"when\" information about time, can be derived from wh-movement in a sentence and be fronted in a similar manner. Typically, this is movement towards the left periphery, to the left of the subject position.\n\n\nPreviously discussed short fronting plays a role in the movement of temporal adverbial clauses. According to Haegeman's movement approach, short movement is commonly found in this temporal adverbial movement; however, long adverbial movement is also found in regards to temporal adverbial phrases using \"when\".\n\nAdverbial phrases are different across languages, especially French. Like English, adverb phrases are the parts of a sentence that add circumstantial information. French often requires using adverbial phrases where English is satisfied with a simple adverb.\n\nFor example, where English uses just one adverb, French requires a full adverbial phrase:\n\n\nPlacements of adverbs in adverbial phrases is usually determined by the category of adverbs. In English, placement of adverbs can sometimes be arbitrary, where some adverbs may be found in front or after the verb or even at the beginning of the sentence, while French adverbs have much stricter rules and can be difficult.\n\nWhen a French adverb modifies a verb, it is placed after the conjugated verb, example:\n\nWhen an adverb modifies an adjective or another adverb, it is placed in front of the \nword it is modifying, for example:\n\nThere is a contrast between verb–adverbial order in French and adverbial–verb order in English. Adverbial expressions are formed in French, by combining prepositions with nouns (or noun phrases), adjectives (adjective + a noun), adverbs, or a series of words.\n\nWhile movement is slightly different from English, suffixation is similar. Most French words that end in -ment is an adverb, and the majority of the time its English equivalent ends in -ly: généralement – generally.\nIn a brief overview on how adverbs are used in the overall phrase structure, in French there is an expansion in the word due to a derivation adjective adjective-to-adverb conversion process, namely, -ment suffixation. For example:\n\nSimilarly, in English, words have the -ly suffication added at the end of adverbs in adverbial phrases. For example:\n\nHowever, this process of adding suffixation at the end of the adverbial word in French, is not as productive as -ly suffixation in English, and some adjectives are incompatible with it. For example, the adverb 'interesting' would become ungrammatical if the -ment adverb suffixation were to be added:\n\nAdditionally, French adverbials are derived from adjectives in a completely irregular fashion not even using the suffix -ment:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31917726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31917726", "title": "Albright Institute of Archaeological Research", "text": "Albright Institute of Archaeological Research\n\nThe W. F. Albright Institute of Archaeological Research (AIAR), is an archaeological research institution located in East Jerusalem. It is the oldest American research center for ancient Near Eastern studies in the Middle East. Founded in 1900 as the \"American School of Oriental Research\", it was renamed in 1970 after its most distinguished director and the father of Biblical archaeology, William F. Albright. Its mission is to develop and disseminate scholarly knowledge of the literature, history, and culture of the Near East, as well as the study of civilization from pre-history to the early Islamic period. \nToday, the Albright Institute is one of three separately incorporated institutes affiliated with the American Schools of Oriental Research (ASOR), the others being the American Center of Oriental Research –ACOR- in Amman, Jordan, and the Cyprus American Archaeological Research Institute –CAARI- in Nicosia, Cyprus. \nIn 1948, the then American School of Oriental Research, also known as the Jerusalem School, played a significant role in the discovery and identification of the Dead Sea Scrolls (see below). Between 1981 and 1996, the Albright Institute, together with the Institute of Archaeology, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, excavated at the ancient Philistine site of Tel Miqne-Ekron, one of the five Philistine capital cities mentioned in the Bible. With the appointment of the new Director, Matthew J. Adams (2014), the Institute is now engaged in the Jezreel Valley Regional Project, a long-term, multi-disciplinary survey and excavation project investigating the history of human activity in the Jezreel Valley from the Paleolithic through the Ottoman period.\n\nLocated in an historic 1920s-period building, now a Jerusalem landmark, the Albright maintains residential and research facilities including a 35,000 volume library, publications offices, and archaeological laboratories.\n\nThe Institute’s unique international fellowship program fosters a culture of intellectual integrity and respect. It provides an opportunity for students and scholars from all over the world including Israelis and Palestinians to interact and exchange information and ideas in a friendly and convivial environment, which is not duplicated in any other such institution in the region. It also promotes working relationships with related institutions in Israel and the Palestinian Authority. \n\nThe Institute played a significant role in the discovery and preservation of the Dead Sea Scrolls. The Scrolls contain approximately eight hundred separate works written between the 2nd century BCE and the 1st century CE. They include the only Jewish Bible manuscripts from that period, including a manuscript of Exodus that dates to c. 250 BCE. Manuscripts or fragments of every book in the Hebrew Bible except the Book of Esther were unearthed, as well as many other Jewish religious texts, many previously unknown. Most scholars believe that the Dead Sea Scrolls were the property of the Essenes who lived at the site of Khirbet Qumran. The Essenes were a Jewish sect active in the last century BCE and the first century CE, at the same time as the Pharisees and the Sadducees.\n\nIn the spring of 1948, the Institute was contacted by a representative of Mar Samuel, the Metropolitan (Archbishop) of the Syrian Orthodox Church in Jerusalem, who wanted to authenticate four ancient scrolls that he had recently purchased from an antiquities dealer.\nOne of the younger scholars in residence at the Institute at that time, John C. Trever recognized the antiquity of the manuscripts and photographed three of the four scrolls in the basement of the Albright under very adverse conditions. Trever was the first to photograph 1QIsaiah(a), a complete scroll of the book of Isaiah dating to approximately 100 BCE. Trever sent copies of his photographs to his mentor—famed Near Eastern scholar and former Institute director William F. Albright, who sent him a telegram congratulating him on the \"greatest manuscript discovery of modern times!”\n\nIn early September 1948, Mar Samuel, contacted ASOR-currently the Albright Institute-in Jerusalem and the then Director Professor Ovid R. Sellers. Samuel showed Sellers some additional scroll fragments that he had acquired. Sellers then focused on finding the cave in which the scrolls had been found. In late 1948, nearly two years after the discovery of the scrolls, scholars had yet to locate the cave where the fragments had been found. Conducting such a search was dangerous. When the British mandate in Palestine ended on May 15, 1948, war broke out immediately, and peace would not be restored until November. The cave was finally discovered on January 28, 1949, by a UN observer, and Sellers brought his box brownie camera to take the first photos of the cave, which were soon published in Life Magazine.\n\nIn 1952, Roland de Vaux, the head of the French Biblical School in Jerusalem, organized a search of the caves in the cliffs above the Dead Sea near the site of Qumran. ASOR joined this expedition, and discovered Cave 3, the cave in which the famous Copper Scroll was found. Cave 3 was the only Qumran cave to be completely excavated by professional archaeologists.\n\nThe Albright Institute continues to play a role in Scrolls scholarship to the present day. In the 1990s, Board Chair Joy Ungerleider established a Dorot Dead Sea Scrolls fellowship at the Albright to enable young American scholars to work on the Scroll fragments in the nearby Rockefeller Museum. One of the first holders of this fellowship was Sidnie White Crawford, Board Chair and former president of the Institute, who lived and worked at the Albright from 1989-1991 on the editions of several Deuteronomy manuscripts from Cave 4, and the Reworked Pentateuch manuscripts, also from Cave 4. The Albright has hosted many Scrolls scholars while they pursued their research, including Eugene C. Ulrich (University of Notre Dame), Mark Smith (New York University), and Eileen Schuller (McMaster University). In addition, former fellow and trustee Jodi Magness (University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill) has produced the seminal work on Qumran archaeology in the twenty-first century.\n\nThe Albright’s excavations at Tel Miqne Ekron is a joint project with the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and was excavated from 1981 until 1996 under the direction of the Albright’s Dorot Director and Professor of Archaeology, Seymour Gitin, and Professor Trude Dothan of the Hebrew University. The excavations have led to one of the most important archaeological discoveries in Israel in the 20th century, perhaps second only to that of the Dead Sea Scrolls. In 1996, a significant artifact for the corpus of Biblical Archaeology was recovered, a monumental dedicatory inscription of the seventh-century king of Ekron Ikausu. The inscription not only securely identifies the site by mentioned the name Ekron, but it gives a king-list of the rulers of Ekron, fathers to sons: Ya'ir, Ada, Yasid, Padi, and Ikausu, and the name of the goddess Patgayah to whom the temple is dedicated.\n\nBoth Padi and Ikausu are mentioned in the seventh century BCE Neo-Assyrian Royal Annals as Kings of Ekron, thus providing a basis for dating their reigns. This makes the Ekron Inscription prime documentary evidence for establishing the chronology of events relating to the late biblical period, especially the history of the Philistines. The Goddess Patgayah refers to the Aegean mother goddess of Delphi, and Ikausu meaning the Achaean or the Greek may point to the Greek heritage of the Philistines or reflect contact between the Philistines and their ‘homeland’ Greece in the Archaic period of the 7th century, during which there was intensive economic and cultural exchange.\n\nLong Term Directors:\n\n\nAmong the 41 Annual Directors Were:\n\n\nASOR/Albright Past Presidents:\nFor over a century, the Institute has been a beacon of archeological scholarship in the Middle East for scholars from all over the world engaged in research in ancient Near Eastern studies including biblical archaeology, history, ancient languages and literature and other related fields. AIAR has had an enormous impact on the careers of a long list of distinguished scholars who conducted research at the Albright as well as on archaeologists who participated in excavations or received logistical support for their research.\n\n\nEgyptologist Flinders Petrie lived with his wife at ASOR-Jerusalem in 1933, and died there in 1942.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5143917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5143917", "title": "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day", "text": "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day\n\nAlexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day, published in 1972, is an ALA Notable Children's Book written by Judith Viorst and illustrated by Ray Cruz. It has also won a George G. Stone Center Recognition of Merit, a Georgia Children's Book Award, and is a Reading Rainbow book. Viorst followed this book up with two sequels, \"Alexander, Who Used to be Rich Last Sunday\" , and \"Alexander, Who's Not (Do You Hear Me? I Mean It!) Going to Move\" .\n\nFrom the moment Alexander wakes up, things just go wrong in his way. As he gets up, the chewing gum that was in his mouth last night somehow ends up in his hair. He trips on the skateboard and drops his sweater in the sink while the water is running. He finds out that it is going to be a terrible, horrible, no good very bad day. \n\nAt the table, his brothers Nick and Anthony find prizes in their breakfast cereal boxes at breakfast time. Nick finds a decoder ring and Anthony finds a toy car. But as for Alexander, he only has breakfast cereal. \n\nIn the carpool on the way to school, he does not get a window seat. At school, his teacher, Mrs. Dickens, says she likes Paul’s picture of a sailboat rather than Alexander's picture of the invisible castle (which is actually just a blank sheet of paper). At singing time, she says that Alexander sang too loud. At counting time, she says that Alexander skipped the number 16. Then Alexander (after he forgot \"16\") says that no one needs the number 16 (\"Who needs sixteen?\"). Then at recess, Alexander's best friend, Paul says that Alexander is no longer his best friend. He says that Phillip is his first best friend and Albert is his second best friend. But Alexander is only his third. Then Alexander says that he hopes Paul sits on a tack. He also says that he hopes the next time Paul gets a double decker strawberry ice cream cone, the ice cream falls off the cone part and it lands somewhere in Australia. At lunch, Phillip has two cupcakes for dessert and Albert has a Hershey bar with almonds. And for Paul, his mother let him have a jelly roll with coconut sprinkles. But since Alexander's mother forgot to put in dessert, there is no dessert in his lunch bag.\n\nAfter school, Alexander's mother takes both Alexander and his brothers Nick and Anthony to the dentist. The dentist Dr. Fields finds a cavity only in Alexander. He tells him he has a cavity and says he will see him next week and fix it. On the way down, the elevator door closes on Alexander's foot. Anthony pushes him into a mud puddle, and when Alexander cries because of the mud Nick says he is a crybaby. Then he punches Nick in response for calling him a “cry baby”. And at last, their mother comes back with the car. She then scolds Alexander for being muddy and fighting Nick. \nAt the shoe store, Alexander wanted blue sneakers with red stripes, but they are out of Alexander's choice, so his mother has to buy him plain white ones, which he refuses to wear. At his father's office, he makes a mess of things when he fools around with everything there (the copying machine, the books, and the telephone). He tells Alexander to not play with his phone. But Alexander calls Australia. Then, the father gets to the point where he tells the family to stop picking him up from work by saying \"Please don't pick me up anymore\" to Alexander.\n\nAt home, they have lima beans for dinner (which he hates), Alexander watches kissing on TV (which he also hates), his bath-time is worst (the water being too hot, getting soap in his eyes, and his marble going down the drain), but the worst of all, he is forced to wear his railroad train pajamas (which he also hates). At bedtime, his Mickey Mouse nightlight burns out, he bites his tongue, Nick takes back a bed pillow he said Alexander could keep, and the cat says he wants to sleep with Anthony (but not Alexander).\n\nIn the end, Alexander says it has been a terrible, horrible, no good very bad day for him. His mother says to him that some days are like that, even in Australia. \n\nA running gag throughout the book is Alexander repeating several times that he wants to move to Australia because he thinks it is better there. It ends with his mother's assurance that everybody has bad days, even those who live there. In the Australian and New Zealand versions, he wants to move to Timbuktu instead. Alexander says tomorrow things must not get any worse.\n\nOn Saturday, January 13, 1990, the book was adapted into a 30-minute animated musical television special that was produced by Klasky Csupo and aired on HBO in the United States. \n\nWhile the special is mostly true to the book, the following differences are:\nThis special features 12 more bad things for Alexander:\nThe special also includes 4 good things to show the audience that even a bad day can have something good in it:\nAlthough mentioned, the three following bad things are not shown in the special:\nThe special also included three original songs:\n\n\nIn 1998, Viorst and the Kennedy Center joined together to turn the book into a musical production. Charles Strouse wrote the music, Viorst wrote the script and lyrics, and the musical score was composed by Shelly Markham. The productions have been performed around the country.\n\nOther characters in it are Audrey, Becky, and many others.\n\nIn 2004, a stage adaptation was run at the B Street Theatre.\n\nA Disney live-action film adaptation was released in 2014.\n\nAlexander and his two older brothers, Anthony and Nick, are based on Viorst's own three sons of the same names. But the film changed Nick to Emily, replacing the brother with a sister, and adds Trevor as well.\n\nThe phrase \"terrible, horrible, no good, very bad . . .\" has become an Internet meme, often used by bloggers, and sometimes by mainstream media, to criticize, or characterize setbacks for, an individual or political movement.\nThe phrase is also used in the Stephen King miniseries Kingdom Hospital by the orderlies Abel and Christa.\n"}
{"id": "45691127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45691127", "title": "Anna Seward bibliography", "text": "Anna Seward bibliography\n\nThe known works of Anna Seward include the following ;\n\n\n\nPoems uncollected before 1810;\n\nOther;\n\nAttributed;\n\nSeward wrote many sonnets, including;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51553282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51553282", "title": "Anticipatory governance", "text": "Anticipatory governance\n\nAnticipatory governance, or anticipatory profiling, is the practice used by the state to collect information and data about its citizens in order to assess events or behaviours in a predictable manner based on the knowledge gathered. Anticipatory governance is also a method of decision making that uses predictive measures to anticipate possible outcomes to then make decisions based on the data provided. Anticipatory governance is a system of governing that is made up of processes and institutions that rely on foresight and predictions to decrease risk and develop efficient methods to address events in their early conception or prevent them altogether.  \n\nAnticipatory governance is a concept that has been derived from terms of similar meaning, like forward engagement and forward deployment, which was a primary focus for decisions made by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). More recently, anticipatory governance has become data oriented practice which allows citizens and governments to utilize data as contributions and evidence for decision making regarding various matters within society. For example, Finland has a Finnish parliamentary Committee for the Future, which takes advantage of foresight to predict and evaluate the impact of developments to the country.\n\nSince 2001, the Millennium Project has initiated a project entitled the State of the Future Index, has been using a predictive methodology to foresee the future for global countries based on historical data, variables and indicators, such as GDP, annual population, literacy rates, population, and unemployment.\n\nAnticipatory governance is a system with four components. They allow the system to: use a foresight, have a networked system that integrates foresight and policy procedures, receive feedback in order to improve efficiency and knowledge, and allow for flexibility. By allowing for feedback, anticipatory governance can detect and assess the development of future programs and policy. Feedback can be done through audits, and assessments of performance. The anticipatory system must adapt to consider possibilities that result from the data and may appear to be untraditional to allow the system to be effective and depend on pragmatic data.\n\nAnticipatory governance utilizes various techniques to assess society which can evaluate the continuous information from knowledge based technologies, such as machine learning. Anticipatory governance also takes into consideration that the concept cannot predict the future certainly, however, it can account for several possible future avenues. In order to determine these possible avenues the following list of indicators are required: \"aggregated averages, risk assessment, sensitivity analysis of factors or decisions driving the scenarios, identification of unacceptable scenarios or worst cases, and assessment of common and different impacts among the scenarios.\"\n\nAnticipatory governance allows the state to use collected public information in order to determine predictive practices and draw conclusions based on this data. Data that is gathered by governments in large volumes can be considered Big data. Governments utilize predictive analytics to examine what kinds of behaviour and events that may occur as a result of this collected of data. Anticipatory governance can be used by enforcement agencies in order to proactively protect the public, for instance by estimating where future crimes may occur and identifying areas of improvement for law enforcement.\n\nAnticipatory governance is not always focused on finding solution, rather it can be focused on a preventative method altogether. As a result of this methodology, anticipatory governance, can be an alternative to having the bureaucracy form specific groups to address issues, whereby, the issue can be avoided due to precise foresight. Furthermore, anticipatory governance can also be considered a precaution, in the sense that it is a practice for preparing for the possible future.\n\nAnticipatory governance involves a governing body to implement its practice, such as government institutions and policies. For example, education governance utilizes policy instrumentation in order to gather data about students as a means of creating predictions to improve future education. However, anticipatory governance can also be applicable in similar instances by private companies and by smaller organizations. For instance, Hewlett Packard can determine which employees will leave the company and they are able to identify ways of preventing this turnover.\n\nPrimarily, anticipatory governance relies on data in order to derive predictive analytical evidence to support its practice, therefore, it is necessary to have an infrastructure that sustains the produced data, such as databases, coding, computational power, and algorithms. These infrastructures can be provided by private companies that have the resources and technologies to acquire and create them.\n\nThere is type of ethical analysis related to anticipatory governance known as nano ethics (see Impact of nanotechnology). Under this category of nano ethics anticipatory governance falls under anticipatory ethics, which originated in the 1960s. Anticipatory ethics and governance addresses the ethical repercussions associated with technologies in their beginning stages. It assesses the risks that the technology might present and therefore can affect future decision making of such technology (see Predictive analytics).\n\nAnticipatory governance in the concept of predictive analytics, data, and governing can be seen as controversial because its measures can be perceived as unethical. The practice of anticipatory governance presents its own ethical issues concerning the affects its methods have on the individuals that are influenced by it, such as discrimination and self-fulfilling prophecies. Anticipatory governance can also allows the secondary use of information by governments, which in some cases can impede on citizen liberties. Based on the information and data that is gathered by governments, they can utilize this data in unintended ways and unbeknownst to the citizen in order to practice anticipatory governance.\n\nDue to the fact that anticipatory governance can be considered hypothetical the certainty of the future is not definite, thus, there is a measure of doubt associated with the practice. For example, following the Great Depression, measures were taken within the United States economy to prevent a depression from ever occurring again, however, the market crash in 2008 still occurred, despite these measures. Anticipatory governance also supersedes information about people that may never happen in actual reality. By drawing conclusions based on anticipatory predictions certain groups in society face the consequences of this practice and are subject to prejudices by others within society. For example, predictive policing can target specific individuals within a society because the information provided by such analytics and technology, supports recidivism. Recidivism is the concept that people that have committed crimes are likely to recommit offences, thus becoming individuals of interest in predictive policing data (see Predictive policing). Anticipatory governance can also target specific people and places concerning policing, which affects the behaviours of people within these areas, such as enforcing self-fulfilling prophecies and discrimination.\n\nAnticipatory governance raises the concern regarding the need for traditional governments. If anticipatory governance and its associated technologies, information, and data are used to govern and make decisions within nation states, it can alter the responsibilities of government. However, without the use of anticipatory governance the alternative is to utilize a reactive form of governance, which results in a decision making process that can take longer and lead to implications that are difficult to predict and prevent.\n\n"}
{"id": "540715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540715", "title": "Behavioralism", "text": "Behavioralism\n\nBehaviouralism (or behavioralism) is an approach in political science that emerged in the 1930s in the United States. It represented a sharp break from previous approaches in emphasizing an objective, quantified approach to explain and predict political behaviour. It is associated with the rise of the behavioural sciences, modeled after the natural sciences. Behaviouralism claims it can explain political behaviour from an unbiased, neutral point of view.\n\nBehaviouralism seeks to examine the behaviour, actions, and acts of individuals – rather than the characteristics of institutions such as legislatures, executives, and judiciaries – and groups in different social settings and explain this behavior as it relates to the political system.\n\nFrom 1942 through the 1970s, behaviouralism gained support. It was David Easton who started it in the study of political systems. It was the site of discussion between traditionalist and new emerging approaches to political science. The origins of behaviouralism is often attributed to the work of University of Chicago professor Charles Merriam who in the 1920s and 1930s, emphasized the importance of examining political behaviour of individuals and groups rather than only considering how they abide by legal or formal rules.\n\nPrior to the \"behaviouralist revolution\", political science being a science at all was disputed. Critics saw the study of politics as being primarily qualitative and normative, and claimed that it lacked a scientific method necessary to be deemed a science.\nBehaviouralists used strict methodology and empirical research to validate their study as a social science. The behaviouralist approach was innovative because it changed the attitude of the purpose of inquiry. It moved toward research that was supported by verifiable facts. During its rise in popularity in the 1960s and '70s, behaviouralism challenged the realist and liberal approaches, which the behaviouralists called \"traditionalism\", and other studies of political behaviour that was not based on fact.\n\nTo understand political behaviour, behaviouralism uses the following methods: sampling, interviewing, scoring and scaling and statistical analysis.\n\nBehaviouralism studies how individuals behave in group positions realistically rather than how they should behave. For example, a study of the United States Congress might include a consideration of how members of Congress behave in their positions. The subject of interest is how Congress becomes an 'arena of actions' and the surrounding formal and informal spheres of power.\n\nDavid Easton was the first to differentiate behaviouralism from behaviourism in the 1950s (behaviourism is the term mostly associated with psychology). In the early 1940s, behaviourism itself was referred to as a behavioural science and later referred to as behaviourism. However, Easton sought to differentiate between the two disciplines:\n\nBehavioralism was not a clearly defined movement for those who were thought to be behavioralists. It was more clearly definable by those who were opposed to it, because they were describing it in terms of the things within the newer trends that they found objectionable. So some would define behavioralism as an attempt to apply the methods of natural sciences to human behavior. Others would define it as an excessive emphasis upon quantification. Others as individualistic reductionism. From the inside, the practitioners were of different minds as what it was that constituted behavioralism. [...] And few of us were in agreement.\n\nWith this in mind, behaviouralism resisted a single definition. Dwight Waldo emphasized that behaviouralism itself is unclear, calling it \"complicated\" and \"obscure.\" Easton agreed, stating, \"every man puts his own emphasis and thereby becomes his own behaviouralist\" and attempts to completely define behaviouralism are fruitless. From the beginning, behaviouralism was a political, not a scientific concept. Moreover, since behaviouralism is not a research tradition, but a political movement, definitions of behaviouralism follow what behaviouralists wanted. Therefore, most introductions to the subject emphasize value-free research. This is evidenced by Easton's eight \"intellectual foundation stones\" of behaviouralism:\n\nSubsequently, much of the behavioralist approach has been challenged by the emergence of postpositivism in political (particularly international relations) theory.\n\nAccording to David Easton, behaviouralism sought to be \"analytic, not substantive, general rather than particular, and explanatory rather than ethical.\" In this, the theory seeks to evaluate political behaviour without \"introducing any ethical evaluations.\" Rodger Beehler cites this as \"their insistence on distinguishing between facts and values.\"\n\nThe approach has come under fire from both conservatives and radicals for the purported value-neutrality. Conservatives see the distinction between values and facts as a way of undermining the possibility of political philosophy. Neal Riemer believes behaviouralism dismisses \"the task of ethical recommendation\" because behaviouralists believe \"truth or falsity of values (democracy, equality, and freedom, etc.) cannot be established scientifically and are beyond the scope of legitimate inquiry.\"\n\nChristian Bay believed behaviouralism was a pseudopolitical science and that it did not represent \"genuine\" political research. Bay objected to empirical consideration taking precedence over normative and moral examination of politics.\n\nBehaviouralism initially represented a movement away from \"naive empiricism\", but as an approach has been criticized for \"naive scientism\". Additionally, radical critics believe that the separation of fact from value makes the empirical study of politics impossible.\n\nBritish scholar Bernard Crick in \"The American Science of Politics\" (1959), attacked the behavioural approach to politics, which was dominant in the United States, but little known in Britain. He identified and rejected six basic premises and in each case argued the traditional approach was superior to behaviouralism:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44722356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44722356", "title": "Bibliography of Sri Lanka", "text": "Bibliography of Sri Lanka\n\nThis is a bibliography of works on Sri Lanka.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20580237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20580237", "title": "Burlington Boys' Choir", "text": "Burlington Boys' Choir\n\nThe Burlington Boys' Choir was founded in 1959 in Burlington, North Carolina and serves as a performing choir and a training group for boys in the Burlington area. The choir was founded by Eva A. Wiseman (1897-1994) who was at the time director of music for the Burlington City Schools. Wiseman modeled the choir after the Vienna Boys Choir. Since the choir's founding, hundreds of boys have been educated in sacred and classical music. Choir members range in age from nine to fourteen years, and are chosen not only for musical ability, but also for maturity, discipline, and high academic standing. \n\nThe choir has traveled extensively both in the US and outside the US, has toured seven times in Europe, and performed three times in the White House. In the 2001-2002 season, the choir participated in the Canterbury Children's Choir Festival, in England, and sang \"Carmina Burana\" with the Greensboro Symphony Orchestra. \n\nThe choir is currently directed by William Allred, who has previously served as an Assistant Director of the Winston-Salem Youth Symphony from 1995-96. Accompanist for the choir is Woodson E. Faulkner, II. \n\n"}
{"id": "57357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57357", "title": "Caribbean Community", "text": "Caribbean Community\n\nThe Caribbean Community (CARICOM) is an organisation of fifteen Caribbean nations and dependencies whose main objective is to promote economic integration and cooperation among its members, to ensure that the benefits of integration are equitably shared, and to coordinate foreign policy. The organisation was established in 1973. Its major activities involve coordinating economic policies and development planning; devising and instituting special projects for the less-developed countries within its jurisdiction; operating as a regional single market for many of its members (Caricom Single Market); and handling regional trade disputes. The secretariat headquarters is in Georgetown, Guyana. CARICOM is an official United Nations Observer.\n\nEstablished mainly by the English-speaking parts of the Caribbean, CARICOM has become multilingual in practice with the addition of Dutch-speaking Suriname on 4 July 1995 and Haitian Kreyòl- and French-speaking Haiti on 2 July 2002. Furthermore, it was suggested that Spanish should also become a working language. In July 2012, CARICOM announced that they were considering making French and Dutch official languages. In 2001, the heads of government signed a revised Treaty of Chaguaramas that cleared the way to transform the idea of a common market CARICOM into a Caribbean (CARICOM) Single Market and Economy. Part of the revised treaty establishes and implements the Caribbean Court of Justice.\n\nCurrently CARICOM has 15 full members, 5 associate members and 8 observers. All of the associate members are British overseas territories, and it is currently not established what the role of the associate members will be. The observers are states which engage in at least one of CARICOM's technical committees. Although the group has close ties with Cuba, that nation was excluded due to lack of full democratic internal political arrangement. In 2017 Cuba and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) bloc signed the \"CARICOM-Cuba Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement\" to facilitate closer ties.\n\nStructures comprised by the overall Caribbean Community (CARICOM).\n\nUnder Article 4 CARICOM breaks its 15 member states into two groups: Less Developed Countries (LDCs) and More Developed Countries (MDCs).\n\nThe countries of CARICOM which are designated as Less Developed Countries (LDCs) are:\n\n\nThe countries of CARICOM which are designated as More Developed Countries (MDCs) are:\n\n\nThe post of Chairman (Head of CARICOM) is held in rotation by the regional Heads of State (for the republics) and Heads of Government (for the realms) of CARICOM's 15 member states. These include: Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Haiti, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Bahamas, Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nCARICOM contains a quasi-Cabinet of the individual Heads of Government. These heads are given specific specialised portfolios of responsibility for overall regional development and integration.\n\n\nThe goal statement of the CARICOM Secretariat is:\nThe Community Council consists of ministers responsible for community affairs and any other Minister designated by the member states in their absolute discretion. It is one of the community's principal organs; the other is the Conference of the Heads of Government. It is supported by four other organs and three bodies.\n\nThe 23 designated institutions of CARICOM are as follows:\nThe Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ) is based in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago and was chiefly developed to act as a settlement unit for disputes on the functioning of the Caribbean (CARICOM) Single Market and Economy (CSME), (known as \"original jurisdiction\"). In addition, some of the region's Commonwealth Caribbean member states of CARICOM have opted to supplement original jurisdiction with \"appellate jurisdiction\" which by practice replaces the Privy Council (in London, United Kingdom) with the CCJ.\n\nAs of 2018, the majority of member states continue to utilize the Privy Council as their final appellate court and three member states do not use the CCJ for either its original jurisdiction or its appellate jurisdiction because they have either not signed the Revised Treaty of Chaguaramas (the Bahamas and Haiti) or are a current United Kingdom Overseas Territory (Montserrat). A handful of various public propositions have been held in several countries of CARICOM polling on public support for transitioning of appellate jurisdiction to the CCJ, and to-date the majority of these measures held have failed.\n\nThe six designated associate institutions of CARICOM are as follows:\n\nThe flag of the Caribbean Community was chosen and approved in November 1983 at the Conference of Heads of Government Meeting in Port of Spain, Trinidad. The original design by the firm of WINART Studies in Georgetown, Guyana was substantially modified at the July 1983 Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government. The flag was first flown on 4 July 1984 in Nassau, Bahamas at the fifth Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government.\n\nThe flag features a blue background, but the upper part is a light blue representing sky and the lower, a darker blue representing the Caribbean Sea. The yellow circle in the centre represents the sun on which is printed in black the logo of the Caribbean Community, two interlocking Cs. The two Cs are in the form of broken links in a chain, symbolising both unity and a break with the colonial past. The narrow ring of green around the sun represents the vegetation of the region.\n\nFor CARICOM's 40th anniversary, a competition to compose an official song or anthem for CARICOM was launched in April 2013 to promote choosing a song that promoted unity and inspired CARICOM identity and pride. A regional panel of judges comprising independent experts in music was nominated by member states and the CARICOM Secretariat. Three rounds of competition condensed 63 entries to a final three, from which judges chose \"Celebrating CARICOM\" by Michele Henderson of Dominica in March 2014. Henderson won a US$10,000 prize. Her song was produced by her husband, Roland Delsol Jr., and arranged by Earlson Matthew. It also featured Michael Ferrol on drums and choral input from the St. Alphonsus Choir. It was re-produced for CARICOM by Carl Beaver Henderson of Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nA second-place entry titled \"My CARICOM\" came from Jamaican Adiel Thomas who won US$5,000, and a third-place song titled \"One CARICOM\" by Carmella Lawrence of St. Kitts and Nevis, won US$2,500. The other songs from the top-ten finalists (in no particular order) were:\n\n\nThe first official performance of \"Celebrating CARICOM\" by Henderson took place on Tuesday 1 July 2014 at the opening ceremony for the Thirty-Fifth Regional Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government in Antigua and Barbuda.\n\nCARICOM, originally the Caribbean Community and Common Market, was established by the Treaty of Chaguaramas which took effect on 1 August 1973. The first four signatories were Barbados, Jamaica, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nCARICOM superseded the 1965–1972 Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA) organised to provide a continued economic linkage between the English-speaking countries of the Caribbean after the dissolution of the West Indies Federation, which lasted from 3 January 1958 to 31 May 1962.\n\nA revised Treaty of Chaguaramas established the Caribbean Community including the CARICOM Single Market and Economy (CSME) and was signed by the CARICOM Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community on 5 July 2001 at their Twenty-Second Meeting of the Conference in Nassau, The Bahamas. The revised treaty cleared the way to transform the idea of a common market CARICOM into the Caribbean (CARICOM) Single Market and Economy.\n\nHaiti's membership in CARICOM remained effectively suspended from 29 February 2004 through early June 2006 following the 2004 Haitian coup d'état and the removal of Jean-Bertrand Aristide from the presidency. CARICOM announced that no democratically elected government in CARICOM should have its leader deposed. The fourteen other heads of government sought to have Aristide fly from Africa to Jamaica and share his account of events with them, which infuriated the interim Haitian prime minister, Gérard Latortue, who announced he would take steps to take Haiti out of CARICOM. CARICOM thus voted on suspending the participation of Haitian officials from the councils of CARICOM. Following the presidential election of René Préval, Haitian officials were readmitted and Préval himself gave the opening address at the CARICOM Council of Ministers meeting in July.\n\nSince 2013 the CARICOM-bloc and with the Dominican Republic have been tied to the European Union via an Economic Partnership Agreements signed in 2008 known as CARIFORUM. The treaty grants all members of the European Union and CARIFORUM equal rights in terms of trade and investment. Under Article 234 of the agreement, the European Court of Justice handles dispute resolution between CARIFORUM and European Union states.\n\nThousands of Caricom nationals live within other member states of the Community.\n\nAn estimated 30,000 Jamaicans legally reside in other CARICOM member states, mainly in the Bahamas (5,600), Antigua & Barbuda (estimated 12,000), Barbados and Trinidad & Tobago). Also, an estimated 150 Jamaicans live and work in Montserrat. A November 21, 2013 estimated put 16,958 Jamaicans residing illegally in Trinidad & Tobago, as according to the records of the Office of the Chief Immigration Officer, their entry certificates would have since expired. By October 2014, the estimated Jamaicans residing illegally in Trinidad and Tobago was 19,000 along with an estimated 7,169 Barbadians and 25,884 Guyanese residing illegally. An estimated 8,000 Trinidadians and Tobagonians live in Jamaica.\n\nBarbados hosts a large diaspora population of Guyanese, of whom (in 2005) 5,032 lived there permanently as citizens, permanent residents, immigrants (with immigrant status) and Caricom skilled nationals; 3,200 were residing in Barbados temporarily under work permits, as students, or with \"reside and work\" status. A further 2,000-3,000 Guyanese were estimated to be living illegally in Barbados at the time. Migration between Barbados and Guyana has deep roots, going back over 150 years, with the most intense period of Barbadian migration to then-British Guiana occurring between 1863 and 1886, although as late as the 1920s and 1930s Barbadians were still leaving Barbados for British Guiana.\n\nMigration between Guyana and Suriname also goes back a number of years. An estimated 50,000 Guyanese had migrated to Suriname by 1986 In 1987 an estimated 30-40,000 Guyanese were in Suriname. Many Guyanese left Suriname in the 1970s and 1980s, either voluntarily by expulsion. Over 5,000 were expelled in January 1985 alone. in the instability Suriname experienced following independence, both coups and civil war. In 2013 an estimated 11,530 Guyanese had emigrated to Suriname and 4,662 Surinamese to Guyana.\n\nCARICOM was instrumental in the formation of the Association of Caribbean States (ACS) on 24 July 1994. The original idea for the Association came from a recommendation of the West Indian Commission, established in 1989 by the CARICOM heads of state and government. The Commission advocated both deepening the integration process (through the CARICOM Single Market and Economy) and widening it through a separate regional organisation encompassing all states in the Caribbean.\n\nCARICOM accepted the commission's recommendations and opened dialogue with other Caribbean states, the Central American states and the Latin American nations of Colombia, Venezuela and Mexico which border the Caribbean, for consultation on the proposals of the West Indian Commission.\n\nAt an October 1993 summit the heads of state and government of CARICOM and the presidents of the then-Group of Three (Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela) formally decided to create an association grouping all states of the Caribbean basin. A work schedule for its formation was adopted. The aim was to create the association in less than a year, an objective which was achieved with the formal creation of the ACS.\n\nCARICOM was also involved in the formation of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) on 3 December 2010. The idea for CELAC originated at the Rio Group–Caribbean Community Unity Summit on 23 February 2010 in Mexico.\n\nSince 2013, the CARICOM-bloc and the Dominican Republic have been tied to the European Union via an Economic Partnership Agreements known as CARIFORUM signed in 2008. The treaty grants all members of the European Union and CARIFORUM equal rights in terms of trade and investment. Within the agreement under Article 234, the European Court of Justice also carries dispute resolution mechanisms between CARIFORUM and the European Union states.\n\nIn May 2016, Caricom's court of original jurisdiction, the CCJ, signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the ACP Legal Association based in Guadeloupe recognizing and supporting the goals of implementing a harmonized business law framework in the Caribbean through ACP Legal Association's OHADAC Project.\n\nOHADAC is the acronym for the French \"Organisation pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en les Caraïbes\", which translates into English as \"Organisation for the Harmonization of Business Law in the Caribbean\". The OHADAC Project takes inspiration from a similar organisation in Africa and aims to enhance economic integration across the entire Caribbean and facilitate increased trade and international investment through unified laws and alternative dispute resolution methods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13843761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13843761", "title": "Catherine Frazee", "text": "Catherine Frazee\n\nCatherine Frazee is a Canadian educator, activist, researcher, poet and writer who currently serves as a Professor of Distinction in the Disability Studies program at Ryerson University as well as a professor emerita in the School for Disability Studies at Ryerson University. Her father was prominent Canadian banker Rowland Cardwell Frazee.\n\nFrazee is a member of DAWN (DisAbled Women's Network Canada)'s Equality Rights Committee and serves on the Board of Directors of the Canadian Abilities Foundation and the Canadian Association for Community Living, chairing that organization's Task Force on Values and Ethics. From 1989 to 1992, Frazee was the Chief Commissioner of the Ontario Human Rights Commission.\n\nFrazee has been awarded three honorary degrees from Canadian Universities. She received one from the University of New Brunswick in 2002, one from Dalhousie University in 2009 and another from McMaster University in June 2015. She has also been awarded the Arnold Davidson Dunton Alumni Award of Distinction in 1990, by the Carleton University Alumni Association. In 2014, Catherine Frazee was appointed Officer of the Order of Canada for her advancement of the rights of persons with disabilities, and as an advocate for social justice.\n\nFrazee, along with humourist David Roche, dancer, choreographer and impresario Geoff McMurchy, writer/artist Persimmon Blackbridge, and director and filmmaker Bonnie Sherr Klein is one of five Canadian artists with diverse disabilities profiled in Klein's 2006 NFB film \"\".\n\nIn 1998, Frazee's lecture about the dangers of contemporary eugenics was featured on Canada's Vision TV, commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Her publications to date include numerous textbooks, academic journals, and magazine contributions, including articles in \"Abilities Magazine\", \"ARCHtype\", and \"The Womanist\"\n"}
{"id": "3132650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3132650", "title": "Coat of arms of Edmonton", "text": "Coat of arms of Edmonton\n\nThe coat of arms of Edmonton was granted on 28 October 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4490962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4490962", "title": "Comandos Autónomos Anticapitalistas", "text": "Comandos Autónomos Anticapitalistas\n\nThe Comandos Autónomos Anticapitalistas (CAA or CCAA) (; \"Autonomous Anticapitalist Commandos\") were a Basque armed group in Spain with Autonomist Marxist politics, defined as an anarchistic breakaway of ETA.\n\nThe group was very active in the 1970s and 1980s. The most important attack was the assassination of Spanish Socialist Workers Party Senator Enrique Casas in 1984, which was rejected by all the political spectrum including ETA, which at the time, rejected violence against politicians.\nSoon after, one of the few operating CAA commandos was ambushed by the Guardia Civil at the bay of Pasaia, killing four – all but one.\n\nThe ambush at Pasaia is dealt with in a documentary film called \"Pasaiako Badia\". Pasaiako Badia In this film, witnesses, relatives and others recount the arrest of Rosa Jimeno by the Spanish police, her torture and the trap set for the CAA, which included Rosa being tied up and a rendezvous with the members of CAA arranged. She was forced to set a date with CAA members near the harbor at Pasaia in March 1984. Once the CAA members arrived in the harbor the armed police, shot Pelu and Pelitxo, killing both, and arrested two, ‘Txapas' and ‘Kurro', who were tortured and killed. Joseba Merino and Rosa survived. The G.A.L. a paramilitary group including former francoist officers which used public funds and participated in the Spanish state's war on terrorism was allegedly involved in the ambush.<ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "12277310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12277310", "title": "Comparative juvenile criminal law", "text": "Comparative juvenile criminal law\n\nJuvenile law pertains to those who are deemed to be below the age of majority, which varies by country and culture. Usually, minors are treated differently under the law. However, even minors may be prosecuted as adults.\n\nIn both France and the United States, some actions are prohibited to minors, such as the underage consumption of alcohol or tobacco, truancy, running away from home, and ungovernability. A minor can thus become a status offender.\n\nIn the United States, the juvenile varies in definition from state to state. The system applies to anyone between the ages of 6 to 10, depending on the state, and 18; except for 11 states (including Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, South Carolina, and Texas), where a juvenile is a person under 17 and New York and North Carolina, where it is under 15. Thus, criminal majority begins at 16, 17, or 18.\n\nThe federal Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Act of 1974 set up four key requirements for US minors:\n\nAll states participate except South Dakota and Wyoming.\n\nFrance has three stages of minors:\n\nThe criminal irresponsibility of children under 13 is defined by the Article 122-8 of the Criminal Code. Those between 13 and 18 are assumed to be irresponsible, but they can be involved in a criminal sentence if the circumstances and the juvenile's delinquent personality justify.\n\nAccording to Jean Pierre Rosenczveig, a children's judge in Bobigny, near Paris, the juvenile criminal law in France has six key requirements:\n\nIn the US, the presence of an attorney is only recommended, not compulsory.\n\nIn most states, special courts try juveniles, but some like Colorado do not have them. Some crimes allow juvenile delinquents to be tried by the superior court (such as first-degree murderer or gang murder).\n\nJuveniles also have special protections, in addition of juvenile courts, which are closed to the public in the US. In France, closing the court to the public (\"huis clos\") is an option. Just like in France, US parents or guardians have to be informed and to be present during the police questioning. At least, the names of juveniles are kept confidential when they are accused of a crime. Juvenile cases are heard by not a jury but a judge.\n\nAt least, the US criminal law system has a particular vocabulary for juveniles' cases. Indeed, juvenile offenders commit not a crime but a delinquent act. Also, courts use the term delinquent or not delinquent, instead of guilty or not guilty, just to show that a minor is different from a criminal.\n\nJuveniles have the same rights as adults. They are assumed innocent, they are noticed of charges advance of any adjudication of delinquency, they have the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses, and they have the Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.\n\nAfter their arrest, in both countries, minors may be placed in provisory detention (until a European Convention on Human Rights case banned it in France) if the parents are prejudiced and informed. Provisory detention is done in a juvenile hall, separated from adults.\n\nUS parents may be liable for the acts of their child if they failed their parent’s authority, an example being if the minor is involved in a gang offense. Also, juveniles have no right to bail.\n\nAs can be noted, UD and French procedures are not that different as they have a common goal: to protect, as much as possible, the interest of the minor offender. Nevertheless, except for detention (the separation from adults as well as parents' awareness), the priorities are different. The US prefers the confidentiality of minors, but France stresses accommodating the juvenile within the criminal system.\n\nBoth systems protect but not in the same way. In France, an attorney is compulsory. In the US, there is no jury.\n\nAs notef, the goal of the juvenile justice in France and the US is clearly to educate child offenders, rather than punish them, even if some measures can be severe.\n\nThe order of February 2, 1945 relative to the childhood delinquency contains three measures to punish French minor offenders:\n\nThe punishment depends of minor's age. As aforesaid, if he is under 7 or 8, he can have no punishment. If he is between 8 and 13, the sentence is nothing more than an educational punishment. If he is over 13, he can have both an educational and a criminal punishment, but the tribunal has to explain its decision according to the minor's personality and the circumstances.\n\nThe US is less divided. The penalry is equal for each juvenile offender over 10, and there is no stage differentiation between measures. However, the measures themsrlves are quite the same:\n\nSince 1988, the death penalty for children who committed crimes has been outlawed. Also, in March 2005, the death penalty was outlawed for killers who committed their crimes before the age of 18. There were 72 peoples in death row concerned at the time.\n\nAs can be seen, the US and the French systems protect juvenile differently, but both protect effectively. There is also much stress on the prevention of delinquency in both countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3951314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3951314", "title": "Controversial newspaper caricatures", "text": "Controversial newspaper caricatures\n\nThere are several incidents involving controversial caricatures in the press media.\n\n\nMany Muslim Middle Eastern newspapers have frequently published cartoons with allegedly anti-Semitic themes, or those created or inspired by Nazi-style propaganda. These newspapers have generally claimed to be anti-Israeli but not anti-Jewish. Some examples: \n\n\n\n\nOn 27 March 2006, Indonesian daily Rakyat Merdeka published a cartoon on its front page depicting the Australian Prime Minister and Foreign minister as dingoes discussing the acquisition of the Indonesian province of West Papua. \"The Australian\" responded on 1 April with a Bill Leak cartoon depicting the Indonesian President as a dog copulating with a West Papuan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1629378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1629378", "title": "Densa", "text": "Densa\n\nDensa was originally a fictional association created in parody of Mensa International. Rather than belonging to the smartest 2% of the population (the criteria for membership eligibility for Mensa), members of Densa must be in the stupidest 2%. The name \"Densa\" is a portmanteau of \"\" (with the meaning \"stupid\") and \"Mensa\".\n\nThere is no single formal Densa organisation; instead, various projects using that name exist as informal groups, usually meant by their founders as a joke rather than a serious organisation. Even within Mensa itself, a SIG (special interest group, an informal sub-group of Mensans sharing a particular common interest) has existed for Densa; which, like all Mensa SIGs, required Mensa membership for admission, while it was active.\n\nThe concept of an organization for the mentally dense originated in \"Boston & Outskirts Mensa Bulletin (BOMB)\", August, 1974, in \"A-Bomb-inable Puzzle II\" by John D. Coons. The puzzle involved \"The Boston chapter of Densa, the low IQ society\". Subsequent issues had additional puzzles with gags about the group, and were widely reprinted by the bulletins of other Mensa groups, before the concept of a low IQ group gained wider circulation in the 1970s, with other people creating quizzes, etc.\n\nA humor book called \"The Densa Quiz: The Official & Complete Dq Test of the International Densa Society\" was written in 1983 by Stephen Price and J. Webster Shields.\n"}
{"id": "47528816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47528816", "title": "Departures (2011 film)", "text": "Departures (2011 film)\n\nDepartures () is a 2011 Turkish short film directed by Ali Y. Akarçeşme. The film is twelve minutes long and is about immigration to the United States from Turkey. In order to raise funds for the film, Akarçeşme held a successful Kickstarter campaign that raised $2,665. \"Departures\" was named Best Drama at the Brownfish Short Film Festival in New York City in 2011. And he won the Best Director Award at NY ITN Distribution Film Festival. These awards were the first Akarçeşme received while living in the United States. In 2012, the film was screened at New York's Rushes Soho Shorts Film Festival and the Love Your Shorts Film Festival and competed in the Boston Turkish Film Festival. The film also had official selections in various festivals such as NY Soho International, New Hope, Spain's Renderyard, Buffalo Niagara, NJ's Garden State and more.\n"}
{"id": "9074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9074", "title": "Design science license", "text": "Design science license\n\nDesign Science License (DSL) is a copyleft license for any type of free content such as text, images, music. Unlike other open source licenses, the DSL was intended to be used on any type of copyrightable work, including documentation and source code. It was the first \"generalized copyleft\" license. The DSL was written by Michael Stutz.\n\nThe DSL came out in the 1990s, before the formation of the Creative Commons. Once the Creative Commons arrived, Stutz considered the DSL experiment \"over\" and no longer recommended its use.\n"}
{"id": "56577894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56577894", "title": "Dual power (leftist theory)", "text": "Dual power (leftist theory)\n\nDual power is a concept in the theory and practice of leftist politics, proposed in different forms by communists and anarchists. The communist conception of dual power, advanced by Vladimir Lenin to describe the division of power during the Russian Revolution, described the soviets of workers and soldiers as an incipient state whose task was to remove and replace the formal government. This notion has informed the strategies of subsequent communist-led revolutions, including the Chinese Revolution led by Mao.\n\nThe anarchist conception envisions the steady creation of mechanisms of self-management separate from the state apparatus. This strategy aims to create a libertarian socialist economy and polity by means of incrementally establishing and then networking institutions of direct participatory democracy to contest the existing power structures of state-capitalism. Dual power strategy was advocated by anarchist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon in 1851: \"Beneath the governmental machinery, in the shadow of political institutions, out of the sight of statemen and priests, society is producing its own organism, slowly and silently; and constructing a new order, the expression of its vitality and autonomy.\" For some anarchists and libertarian socialists, this does not necessarily mean disengagement with existing institutions; for example, Yates McKee describes a dual power approach as \"forging alliances and supporting demands on existing institutions — elected officials, public agencies, universities, workplaces, banks, corporations, museums — while at the same time developing self-organized counter-institutions.\" In this context, the strategy itself is sometimes also referred to as \"counterpower\" to differentiate it from the term's Leninist origins.\n\nWith the growth of the Zapatista movement, the system of local governance has been elaborated somewhat. Among the officials selected from each assembly, there are now commissioners for health and education, as well as a representative to a Clandestine Revolutionary Indigenous Committee (CCRI). The commissioners meet and coordinate with their peers on a regional basis, while there are four CCRIs, one for each language group in the area. The EZLN is subordinate to their decisions. This has fostered cooperation between community members and the EZLN, since \"when a decision is made by the CCRI, it’s a decision based on consensus. It’s based on the agreement of dozens of families.\"\n\nThis local democracy has been extended by the creation of Rebel Zapatista Autonomous Municipalities, systems of alternative institutions that effectively replace local structures of power. On February 3, 1994, Manuel Camacho Solís, the conciliator between the government and the Zapatistas, announced the creation of two free zones in which the International Red Cross would operate and the militaries would not, unwittingly providing the Zapatista communities with a bit of national territory. On December 19, 1995, the EZLN broke the Mexican Federal Army’s encirclement and carried out the political and military seizure of dozens of towns, demonstrating that its influence went far beyond the small existing conflict zone. In this expanded area, Zapatista communities formed 38 autonomous municipalities covering more than a third of the state of Chiapas.\n\nAutonomous municipalities are the Zapatistas’ implementation of the 16 February 1996 San Andrés Accords, which the government abandoned in December 1996, after refusing to carry them out. The Accords guarantee the right of indigenous peoples to form and govern traditionally their own municipalities. In forming the municipalities, residents derecognize the official authorities and elect their own. They refuse federal government involvement and control. They name their \"local health promoters [and] indigenous parliaments, and elaborate their own laws based on social, economic, political and gender equality among the inhabitants of diverse ethnic communities.\" Councils are constituted to plan the various areas of community action and are joined by councils of elders and, increasingly, of women. These communities are accomplishing long-ignored aspirations, like building bilingual (Spanish and the local indigenous language) education systems, and providing to all what once was only provided in accordance with political patronage. A report from the Diocese of San Cristobal de las Casas finds: \"At a local level municipal presidents imposed by the PRI are left governing only themselves, without being able to penetrate into the communities. Basically this means the slow destruction of…false democracy…and its replacement by communities and organizations that construct their own history first as autonomous municipalities and eventually as autonomous zones.\"\nThis eroding of the status quo has proceeded despite the attacks by the Mexican Federal Army and their paramilitary allies, providing a dramatic demonstration of the effectiveness of grassroots dual power. Whatever its accomplishments, the EZLN sees itself as a temporary formation: A \"mirror image of the Mexican Army,\" it is \"entirely unqualified to replace it\" since it includes the hierarchy and violence that it would remove from society altogether. It will remain only \"until the armed struggle becomes an absurdity and an obstacle for the revolutionary transformation of our country.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25872369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25872369", "title": "Eiríkr Magnússon", "text": "Eiríkr Magnússon\n\nEiríkr or Eiríkur Magnússon (1 February 1833 – 24 January 1913) was an Icelandic scholar who was Librarian at the University of Cambridge, taught Old Norse to William Morris, translated numerous Icelandic sagas into English in collaboration with him, and played an important role in the movement to study the history and literature of the Norsemen in Victorian England.\n\nBorn in Berufjörður in the east of Iceland, Eiríkr was sent to England in 1862 by the Icelandic Bible Society, and his first translations there were of mediaeval Christian texts.\n\nIn 1871, with the assistance of Sir Henry Holland and of Alexander Beresford-Hope, MP for Cambridge, he became a librarian at the University of Cambridge, where he worked until the end of 1909. In 1893 he also became lecturer in Icelandic.\n\nEiríkr lectured and organised famine relief for Iceland in 1875 and 1882 and fell out with Guðbrandur Vigfússon, a fellow Icelandic scholar who was at Oxford and had been his friend, over that and his preference for modernised Icelandic in translating the Bible; Guðbrandur was a purist.\n\nLike many Icelandic scholars in Britain at the time, Eiríkr gave Icelandic lessons as a source of income; his first pupil was probably Sir Edmund Head in 1863, and he taught some by post. Another was George E.J. Powell, who had supported him financially when he first came to England and with whom he translated Jón Arnason's Icelandic folktales and worked on a translation of \"Hávarðar saga Ísfirðings\" that remained unpublished.\n\nMost famously, he taught William Morris and collaborated with him on translating a number of sagas. Within a year of Morris beginning his studies with Eiríkr, their \"Story of Grettir the Strong\" was published (1869). In 1870 they published the first English translation of \"Völsungasaga\". In 1871 Eiríkr and his wife accompanied Morris to Iceland, where Eiríkr went with Morris on a tour of \"saga steads\" and other places of interest.\n\nBetween 1891 and 1905 they published a six-volume Saga Library, which included \"Heimskringla\" and the first English translations of \"Hávarðar saga Ísfirðings\", \"Hænsa-Þóris saga\" and \"Eyrbyggja Saga\". Eiríkr defended Morris against York Powell's criticism of his archaic style. Volume 6 of the Saga Library, volume 4 of the \"Heimskringla\", is an index that is entirely Eiríkr's work, published in 1905 after Morris's death.\n\nEiríkr was married to Sigríður Einarsdóttir, a descendant of Egill Skallagrímsson. She campaigned to improve education for girls in Iceland.\n\nHe is buried in the Mill Road cemetery, Cambridge.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53742617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53742617", "title": "El Temblor", "text": "El Temblor\n\nEl Temblor is an archaeological site in Petén Department, Guatemala which was once the location of a settlement of the Maya civilization. First recorded in 1974 by Ian Graham of Harvard University's Peabody Museum, the little-known site represents a medium-sized and compact settlement about south-south-east of the ruined Mayan city of Tikal and about north-east of the ruins of Ixlu. It is situated in a wooded area called Paso del Carmen, a few kilometers east of the modern village of . It is designated TMB in the \"Corpus of Maya Hieroglyphic Inscriptions\".\n\nThe ruins at El Temblor consist of at least three groups of collapsed structures or platforms on a north-south axis. The northernmost group, designated as Group A, is clustered in a wooded hilltop and includes a pyramid standing over high. A long structure similar to a palace, at least in length, is situated to its north-east. A damaged stela stands east of the pyramid.\n\nGroup B is located in a lower and flatter area to the south and includes at least five mounds or platforms. Group C is located further south along the site's main axis and comprises eight structures on a hill, possibly representing temples and palaces. A chultun, a bottle-shaped underground storage chamber, is situated to the west of Group C.\n\nThe site is unguarded and has been badly damaged by looters who have dug trenches and mutilated stelae. Around 1970, two sawn-off inscribed sides from an El Temblor stela were offered for sale by a New York City art gallery which claimed it to be of unknown provenance, presumed to be from Belize. One side was purchased by the Nasher Museum of Art at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina. The other side was purchased privately and its whereabouts are unknown.\n\nEl Temblor has not yet been investigated archaeologically. However, its visible architectural features suggest that it dates from the Late Classic period (circa AD 600–909).\n"}
{"id": "55552548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55552548", "title": "Ethics and Information Technology", "text": "Ethics and Information Technology\n\nEthics and Information Technology is a quarterly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering the intersection between moral philosophy and the field of information and communications technology. It was established in 1999 by Jeroen van den Hoven (Delft University of Technology), who has been its editor-in-chief ever since. It is published by Springer Science+Business Media. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.500.\n"}
{"id": "14120336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14120336", "title": "Flemish Baroque painting", "text": "Flemish Baroque painting\n\nFlemish Baroque painting refers to the art produced in the Southern Netherlands during Spanish control in the 16th and 17th centuries. The period roughly begins when the Dutch Republic was split from the Habsburg Spain regions to the south with the Spanish recapturing of Antwerp in 1585 and goes until about 1700, when Habsburg authority ended with the death of King Charles II. Antwerp, home to the prominent artists Peter Paul Rubens, Anthony van Dyck, and Jacob Jordaens, was the artistic nexus, while other notable cities include Brussels and Ghent.\n\nRubens, in particular, had a strong influence on seventeenth-century visual culture. His innovations helped define Antwerp as one of Europe's major artistic cities, especially for Counter Reformation imagery, and his student Van Dyck was instrumental in establishing new directions in English portraiture. Other developments in Flemish Baroque painting are similar to those found in Dutch Golden Age painting, with artists specializing in such areas as history painting, portraiture, genre painting, landscape painting, and still life.\n\"Flemish\", in the context of this and artistic periods such as the \"Flemish Primitives\" (in English now Early Netherlandish painting), often includes the regions not associated with modern Flanders, including the Duchy of Brabant and the autonomous Prince-Bishopric of Liège. By the seventeenth century, however, Antwerp was the main city for innovative artistic production, largely due to the presence of Rubens. Brussels was important as the location of the court, attracting David Teniers the Younger later in the century.\n\nAlthough paintings produced at the end of the 16th century belong to general Northern Mannerist and Late Renaissance approaches that were common throughout Europe, artists such as Otto van Veen, Adam van Noort, Marten de Vos, and the Francken family were particularly instrumental in setting the stage for the local Baroque. Between 1585 and the early 17th century they made many new altarpieces to replace those destroyed during the iconoclastic outbreaks of 1566. Also during this time Frans Francken the Younger and Jan Brueghel the Elder became important for their small cabinet paintings, often depicting mythological and history subjects.\n\nPeter Paul Rubens (1577–1640), a student of both Otto van Veen and Adam van Noort, spent eight years in Italy (1600–1608), during which time he studied examples of classical antiquity, the Italian Renaissance, and contemporaries Adam Elsheimer and Caravaggio. Following his return to Antwerp he set up an important studio, training students such as Anthony van Dyck, and generally exerting a strong influence on the direction of Flemish art. Most artists active in the city during the first half of the 17th century were directly influenced by Rubens.\n\nFlemish art is notable for the large amount of collaboration that took place between independent masters, which was partly related to the local tendency to specialize in a particular area. Frans Snyders, for example, was an animal painter and Jan Brueghel the Elder was admired for his landscapes and paintings of plants. Both artists worked with Rubens, who often usually painted the figures, and other artists to create collaborative pieces.\n\nFlower still life painting, which developed around 1600 by artists such as Jan Brueghel the Elder, was partially a Flemish innovation, echoed in the Dutch Republic in the works of the Antwerp-born Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder (1573–1621). In Antwerp, however, this new genre also developed into a specifically Catholic type of painting, the flower garland. Other types of paintings closely associated with Flemish Baroque include the monumental hunting scenes by Rubens and Snyders, and gallery paintings by artists such as Willem van Haecht and David Teniers the Younger.\n\nHistory painting, which includes biblical, mythological and historical subjects, was considered by seventeenth-century theoreticians as the most noble art. Abraham Janssens was an important history painter in Antwerp between 1600 and 1620, although after 1609 Rubens was the leading figure. Both Van Dyck and Jacob Jordaens were active painting monumental history scenes. Following Rubens's death, Jordaens became the most important Flemish painter. Other notable artists working in the idiom of Rubens include Gaspar de Crayer, who was active in Brussels, Artus Wolffort, Cornelis de Vos, Jan Cossiers, Theodoor van Thulden, Abraham van Diepenbeeck, and Jan Boeckhorst. During the second half of the century, history painters combined a local influence from Rubens with knowledge of classicism and Italian Baroque qualities. Artists in the vein include Erasmus Quellinus the Younger, Jan van den Hoecke, Pieter van Lint, Cornelis Schut, and Thomas Willeboirts Bosschaert. Later in the century, many painters turned to Anthony van Dyck as a major influence. Among them were Pieter Thijs, Lucas Franchoys the Younger, and artists who were also inspired by Late Baroque theatricality such as Theodoor Boeyermans and Jan-Erasmus Quellinus. Additionally, a Flemish variant of \"Caravaggism\" was expressed by Theodoor Rombouts and Gerard Seghers.\n\nRubens is closely associated with the development of the Baroque altarpiece. Painted for the Arquebusiers' guild, the \"Descent from the Cross\" triptych (1611–14; Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp)—with side wings depicting the \"Visitation\" and \"Presentation in the Temple\", and exterior panels showing \"St. Christopher and the Hermit\"—is an important reflection of Counter-Reformation ideas about art combined with Baroque naturalism, dynamism and monumentality. Roger de Piles explains that \"the painter has entered so fully into the expression of his subject that the sight of this work has the power to touch a hardened soul and cause it to experience the sufferings endured by Jesus Christ in order to redeem it.\"\n\nAlthough not predominately a portrait painter, Rubens's contributions include early works such as his \"Portrait of Brigida Spinola-Doria\" (1606, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.), paintings of his wives (the \"Honeysuckle Bower\" and \"Het Pelsken\"), and numerous portraits of friends and nobility. He also exerted a strong influence on Baroque portraiture through his student Anthony van Dyck. Van Dyck became court painter for Charles I of England and was influential on subsequent English portraiture. Other successful portraitists include Cornelis de Vos and Jacob Jordaens. Although most Flemish portraiture is life-sized or monumental, Gonzales Coques and Gillis van Tilborch specialized in small-scale group portraiture.\nGenre paintings, or scenes of everyday life, are common in the 17th century. Many artists follow the tradition of Pieter Bruegel the Elder in depicting \"low-life\" peasant themes, although elegant \"high-life\" subjects featuring fashionably-dressed couples at balls or in gardens of love are also common. Adriaen Brouwer, whose small paintings often show peasants fighting and drinking, was particularly influential on subsequent artists. Images of woman performing household tasks, popularized in the northern Netherlands by Pieter de Hooch and Jan Vermeer, is not a significant subject in the south, although artists such as Jan Siberechts explored these themes to some degree.\n\nFlemish genre painting is strongly tied to the traditions of Pieter Bruegel the Elder and was a style that continued directly into the 17th century through copies and new compositions made by his sons Pieter Brueghel the Younger and Jan Brueghel the Elder. Many of these are kermis paintings and scenes of peasants taking part in other outdoor enjoyments viewed from an elevated viewpoint. Artists in the Dutch Republic, such as the Flemish-born David Vinckboons and Roelandt Savery, also made similar works, popularizing rustic scenes of everyday life closely associated with Dutch and Flemish painting.\n\nAdriaen Brouwer (1605 or 1606–1638) typically painted small scenes of ragged peasants fighting, gaming, drinking and generally expressing exaggerated and rude behaviour. Born in the Southern Netherlands, Brouwer spent the 1620s in Amsterdam and Haarlem, where he came under the influence of Frans and Dirk Hals and other artists working in a loose painterly manner. Upon his return to Antwerp around 1631 or 1632 he introduced a new, influential format in which the subjects were painted as interior, instead of exterior, scenes. He also painted expressive facial studies like \"The Bitter Drink\" (illustrated), a genre called tronies (\"faces\"). Brouwer's art was recognized in his own lifetime and had a powerful impact on Flemish art. Rubens owned more works by him at the time of his death than any other painter, and artists such as David Teniers the Younger, Jan van de Venne, Joos van Craesbeeck and David Ryckaert III continued to work in a similar manner.\n\nPaintings of elegant couples in the latest fashions, often with underlying themes of love or the five senses, were commonly painted by Hieronymus Francken the Younger, Louis de Caullery, Simon de Vos, David Teniers the Younger and David Ryckaert III. Rubens's \"Garden of Love\" (\"c\". 1634–5; Prado Museum) belongs to these traditions.\n\nWhereas elegant company scenes and works by Brouwer and his followers were often small in scale, other artists looked to Caravaggio for inspiration and painted large-scale, theatrically inspired scenes in which musicians, cardplayers, and fortune tellers are pushed to the foreground of the composition. These paintings, like others by \"Caravaggisti\", are generally illuminated by strong lighting effects. Adam de Coster, Gerard Seghers and Theodoor Rombouts were the main exponents of this popular style in the early 17th century, which was popularized by Italian followers of Caravaggio like Bartolomeo Manfredi and Utrecht Caravaggisti like Gerrit van Honthorst. Rombouts was also influenced by his teacher Abraham Janssens, who began incorporating Caravaggesque influences into his history paintings from first decade of the 17th century\n\nJacob Jordaens, who became Antwerp's most important artist after Rubens's death in 1640, is well known for his monumental genre paintings of subjects such as \"The King Drinks\" and \"As the Old Sing, So Pipe the Young\". Many of these paintings use compositional and lighting influences similar to those of the \"Caravaggisti\", while the treatment of the subjects inspired Dutch artists like Jan Steen.\n\nAnother popular type of painting invented in the Low Countries was landscapes with historical and fictional battles, as well as skirmishes and robberies. Sebastiaen Vrancx and his pupil Peter Snayers specialized in this genre, and Snayer's student Adam-Frans van der Meulen continued painting them in Antwerp, Brussels and Paris until the end of the century.\nFollowing a time-honoured tradition, many northern artists travelled to Italy in the 17th century. Flemish artists such as Jan Miel (1599–1664), Michael Sweerts (1618–1664), Anton Goubau (1616–1698) and Willem Reuter (c.1642–1681) went to Rome where they worked for a period of time. Here they were influenced by the works of the genre painters active in Rome referred to as the Bamboccianti. The Bamboccianti comprised mostly Dutch and Flemish artists who had brought existing traditions of depicting peasant subjects from sixteenth-century Netherlandish art with them to Italy, and generally created small cabinet paintings or etchings of the everyday life of the lower classes in Rome and its countryside. The Dutch painter Pieter van Laer who was nicknamed \"Il Bamboccio\" (meaning \"ugly doll\" or \"puppet\" in Italian) had started this type of genre painting in Rome. In general, genre painting was not well-accepted in Italy, especially by official organizations such as the Academy of St. Luke. Many of the painters were alsom members of the Bentvueghels, the society of mainly Flemish and Dutch artists working in Rome. It acted as a support network for Netherlandish artists in Rome who were in need but is better-known for the \"bohemian\" lifestyle of its members and drunken festivities.\n\nGillis van Coninxloo was an innovative landscape painter in Antwerp in the late 16th century, who introduced a more natural view instead of the traditional world landscape popularized by earlier painters such as Joachim Patiner. He left a strong influence on northern landscape painting in general through his period in Amsterdam and as a founding member of the Frankenthal School. Forest and mountain landscapes were painted by Abraham Govaerts, Alexander Keirincx, Gijsbrecht Leytens, Tobias Verhaecht and Joos de Momper. Paul Bril settled in Rome, where he specialized as a landscape painter decorating Roman villas and creating small cabinet paintings.\nJan Wildens and Lucas van Uden painted natural landscapes inspired by Rubens, and frequently collaborated with figure painters or animal specialists to paint the backgrounds. Rubens turned to landscape painting in the 1630s, focusing on the area around his chateau, Het Steen. A well-known example is the \"Landscape with a view of 'Het Steen\"' (National Gallery of London).\n\nSmall seascapes (\"zeekens\") were another popular theme. Artists such as Bonaventura Peeters painted shipwrecks and atmospheric views of ships at sea, as well as imaginary views of exotic ports. Hendrik van Minderhout, who was from Rotterdam and settled in Antwerp, continued this latter theme contemporaneous with developments of marine painting in the Dutch Republic.\n\nInterior architectural views, usually of churches, developed out of the late sixteenth-century works of Hans Vredeman de Vries. Many were actual locations. Pieter Neeffs I, for example, made numerous interiors of the Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp. Hendrik van Steenwijk II, on the other hand, followed Vredeman's precedent in painting imaginary interiors. The genre continued in the later seventeenth century by Anton Ghering and Wilhelm Schubert van Ehrenberg, but the Flemish examples do not demonstrate the same level of innovation found in the Dutch perspectives of Pieter Jansz Saenredam or Emanuel de Witte.\n\nGallery paintings appeared in Antwerp around 1610, and developed—like architectural interiors—from the compositions of Hans Vredeman de Vries. One of the earliest innovators of this new genre was Frans Francken the Younger, who introduced the type of work known as the \"Preziosenwand\" (wall of treasures). In these, prints, paintings, sculptures, drawings, as well as collectable objects from the natural world like shells and flowers are collected together in the foreground against a wall that imitates encyclopedic cabinets of curiosities. A similar variation of these collections of artistic wealth are the series of the five senses created by Jan Brueghel the Elder and Rubens (Prado Museum, Madrid). Willem van Haecht (1593–1637) developed another variation in which illustrations of actual artworks are displayed in a fantasy art gallery, while connoisseurs and art lovers admire them. Later in the century, David Teniers the Younger, working in the capacity of court painter to Archduke Leopold Wilhelm of Austria, documented the archduke's collection of Italian paintings in Brussels as gallery painters as well as in a printed catalogue–the \"Theatrum Pictorium\". Flemish Gallery and art collection paintings have been interpreted as a kind of visual theory of art. Such paintings continued to be made in Antwerp by Gerard Thomas (1663–1721) and Balthasar van den Bossche (1681–1715), and foreshadow the development of the veduta in Italy and the galleries of Giovanni Paolo Pannini.\n\nJan Brueghel the Elder was one of the important innovators of the floral still life around 1600. These paintings, which presented immaculately observed arrangements and compositions, were imaginary creations of flowers that bloom at different times of the years. They were popular with leading patrons and nobility across Europe, and generally have an underlying Vanitas motif. The compositions of Brueghel's paintings were also influential on later Dutch flower pieces. Brueghel's sons Jan Brueghel the Younger and Ambrosius Brueghel were also flower specialists. Osias Beert (1580–1624) was another flower painter at the beginning of the 17th century. His paintings share many similarities with northern contemporaries such as Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder.\n\nClosely related to the flower still life is the flower garland genre of painting that was invented by Jan Brueghel in collaboration with cardinal Federico Borromeo in Milan. The early versions of these paintings, such as the collaboration by Breughel and Rubens in Munich (Alte Pinakothek, Munich) show the Virgin Mary and Christ child surrounded by a garland of flowers. They have been interpreted as distinctly Counter Reformation images, with the flowers emphasizing the delicacy of the Virgin and Child–images of which were destroyed in large numbers during the iconoclastic outbreaks of 1566. Brueghel's student, the Jesuit painter Daniel Seghers, also painted many of these types of works for an international clientele. In later versions, the fleshy Madonna and Child gave way to sculptural niches and even pagan themes.\nThe \"ontbijtje\", or \"little breakfast\", is a type of still life that was popular in both the northern and southern Netherlands showing a variety of eating and drinking vessels and foods such as cheese and bread against a neutral background. Osias Beert, Clara Peeters, Cornelis Mahu and Jacob Foppens van Es (\"c\". 1596–1666) were all artists who made these types of painting. More elaborate are the \"pronk\", or \"sumptuous\", still life. This style developed in the Dutch Republic, and was brought to Antwerp by Jan Davidsz de Heem. They show, on a larger scale than earlier works, complex compositions of expensive items, rare foods, and fleshy, peeling fruit. These paintings are related to vanitas and transience motifs.\n\nFrans Snyders (1579–1657) painted large still lifes focusing on dead game and animals. His compositions, along with those of his follower Adriaen van Utrecht (1599–1652). look back to the sixteenth-century paintings of Pieter Aertsen and Joachim Beuckelaer, but instill that tradition with a High Baroque monumentality. Subsequent artists, Jan Fyt and Pieter Boel further elaborated on this type by including a noticeable mixture of living animals and dead game. These latter paintings are closely related to images of the hunt, which came into fashion in Flemish painting during the 17th century.\n\nRubens introduced the monumental hunt to Flemish art, depicting on a large scale a close battle inspired by his study of classical antiquity and Leonardo da Vinci's \"Battle of Anghiari\". These works show both noble hunts, such as the \"Wolf and Fox Hunt\" (Metropolitan Museum of Art), and exotic hunts, such as the \"Lion Hunt\" (Alte Pinakothek, Munich). Frans Snyders and Paul de Vos created similarly large paintings which are \ndistinct from Rubens's works in their focus on the animals and absence of human participation.\n\nSmall, intricate paintings, usually depicting history and biblical subjects, were produced in great numbers in the Southern Netherlands throughout the 17th century. Many were created by anonymous artists, however artists such as Jan Brueghel the Elder, Hendrik van Balen, Frans Francken the Younger and Hendrik de Clerck were all successful cabinet painters during the first half of the 17th century. These artists, as well as followers of Adam Elsheimer like David Teniers the Elder, remained partly shaped by continued mannerist stylistic tendencies. However, Rubens influenced a number of later artists who incorporated his Baroque style into the small context of these works. Among them are Frans Wouters, Jan Thomas van Ieperen, Simon de Vos, Pieter van Lint, and Willem van Herp. These small paintings were traded widely throughout Europe, and by way of Spain to Latin America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24921450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24921450", "title": "Gregory Jackmond", "text": "Gregory Jackmond\n\nGregory Jackmond is an American who carried out extensive archaeological field work in Samoa during the 1970s.\n\nJackmond surveyed pre-historic ruins inland from Sapapali'i and another large settlement in Palauli district where the Pulemelei Mound is situated. His work on Savai'i occurred while he was a Peace Corps in the islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "18649093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18649093", "title": "Heritage trail", "text": "Heritage trail\n\nHeritage trails are walking trails and driving routes in urban and rural settings that are identified in most cases by signage and guidebooks as relating to cultural heritage.\n\nThe heritage might be built, or it can also be cultural heritage narrative. In most cases it is in public space.\n\nThe nature of the trail can be seen to be beneficial for community development, community participation, for discovering community heritage, and for involvement by community in developing the trails.\n\nIn many countries heritage trails are self guided. However for the interpretation of features and items of historical note, tour guides are required.\n\nIn many countries former railway formations are used as walking and heritage trails.\n\n"}
{"id": "1316842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1316842", "title": "Historic Houses Association", "text": "Historic Houses Association\n\nHistoric Houses (formerly, and still for legal purposes, known as The Historic Houses Association or HHA) is a not-for-profit organisation that represents more than 1,650 privately owned historic country houses, castles and gardens throughout the UK. The association was established in 1973 to help owners maintain and conserve significant homes in the interests of the nation's heritage. It carries out important lobbying, advisory and marketing work on behalf of member properties and runs an access scheme for the general public. These are listed buildings or registered gardens, usually Grade I or II* and often rated as outstanding.\n\nAround 500 of these properties open their doors to visitors for days out, special tours, school visits, film locations, weddings and events, or as memorable places to stay, attracting between them 14 million visitors each year. Others open by appointment or for special visits, weddings or corporate events. There are more privately owned historic houses open to the public than those in the care of the National Trust, English Heritage and their equivalents in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland put together. Historic Houses works for the future of these houses, the heritage they conserve and the businesses, families and employees they support by lobbying at national, regional and local level. It provides technical and specialist advice and guidance, seminars, networks and information for its member houses.\n\nHistoric Houses offers a membership to the public, allowing card-holders free entry to around 320 of the association's member properties that open to the public as visitor attractions. Members also receive have access to tours of hundreds more houses which are not normally open. The association publishes a quarterly magazine, \"Historic House.\"\n\nThere are three hundred houses to which members of \"The Friends of the Historic Houses Association\" are entitled to free entry, including:\n\n\nThere are HHA member houses located all over the country. Here are some other examples:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19810079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19810079", "title": "Hollis Robbins", "text": "Hollis Robbins\n\nHollis Robbins (born 1963) is an American academic and scholar in the humanities, specializing in literature and poetry.\nHollis Robbins is Dean of the School of Arts & Humanities at Sonoma State University in Rohnert Park, California. Previously, she was Chair of the Department of Humanities at the Peabody Institute of the Johns Hopkins University as well as the Director of the Center for Africana Studies at Johns Hopkins, from 2014-2017. Robbins is a noted expert in the field of nineteenth-century African American literature and recently co-edited with Henry Louis Gates, Jr. an anthology of African American women's writing. Robbins' work focuses primarily on nineteenth and early twentieth century black print culture; she is affiliated with the Black Press Research Collective and serves as an advisor to the Black Periodical Literature Project at the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute at Harvard University. Robbins has been the winner of numerous awards and fellowship including the 2014 Johns Hopkins University Alumni Excellence in Teaching Award,\na 2015 Johns Hopkins University Discovery Award, and a fellowship from the National Humanities Center. \n\nRobbins received a B.A. from the Johns Hopkins University, a Masters in Public Policy from Harvard's Kennedy School of Government in 1990, an M.A. in English literature from the University of Colorado, Boulder, and a Ph.D. from Princeton University in 2003. Robbins serves on the Faculty Editorial Board of the Johns Hopkins University Press From 2004-2006 Robbins was an Assistant Professor of English at Millsaps College in Jackson, Mississippi. \n\nPreviously, Robbins edited several other books with Henry Louis Gates, Jr., including \"The Annotated Uncle Tom's Cabin\" (2006) and \"In Search of Hannah Crafts: Essays on The Bondwoman's Narrative\" (2003). She also co-edited \"The Works of William Wells Brown\" (2006) with Paula Garrett and an edition of Frances E.W. Harper's 1892 novel Iola Leroy. \n\nRobbins writes and publishes on African American poets and on film music. Her own poetry has been published in \"The Cortland Review,\" \"Mezzo Cammin,\" \"Per Contra\", \"Boston Literary Magazine\" and other literary journals, and has been set to music by Peabody composers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52034", "title": "James Ussher", "text": "James Ussher\n\nJames Ussher (or Usher; 4 January 1581 – 21 March 1656) was the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Armagh and Primate of All Ireland between 1625 and 1656. He was a prolific scholar and church leader, who today is most famous for his identification of the genuine letters of the church father, Ignatius, and for his chronology that sought to establish the time and date of the creation as \"the entrance of the night preceding the 23rd day of October... the year before Christ 4004\"; that is, around 6 pm on 22 October 4004  according to the proleptic Julian calendar.\n\nUssher was born in Dublin to a well-to-do family. His maternal grandfather, James Stanihurst, had been speaker of the Irish parliament. Ussher's father, Arland Ussher, was a clerk in chancery who married James Stanihurst's daughter, Margaret (by his first wife Anne Fitzsimon), who was reportedly a Roman Catholic.\n\nUssher's younger, and only surviving, brother, Ambrose, became a distinguished scholar of Arabic and Hebrew. According to his chaplain and biographer, Nicholas Bernard, the elder brother was taught to read by two blind, spinster aunts. A gifted polyglot, he entered Dublin Free School and then the newly founded (1591) Trinity College, Dublin on 9 January 1594, at the age of thirteen (not an unusual age at the time). He had received his Bachelor of Arts degree by 1598, and was a fellow and MA by 1600 (though Bernard claims he did not gain his MA till 1601). In May 1602, he was ordained in the Trinity College Chapel as a deacon in the Protestant, established, Church of Ireland (and possibly priest on the same day) by his uncle Henry Ussher, the Archbishop of Armagh and Primate of All Ireland.\n\nUssher went on to become Chancellor of St Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin in 1605 and Prebend of Finglas. He became Professor of Theological Controversies at Trinity College and a Bachelor of Divinity in 1607, Doctor of Divinity in 1612, and then Vice-Chancellor in 1615 and vice-provost in 1616. In 1613, he married Phoebe, daughter of a previous Vice-Provost, Luke Challoner, and published his first work. In 1615, he was closely involved with the drawing up of the first confession of faith of the Church of Ireland.\n\nIn 1619 Ussher travelled to England, where he remained for two years. His only child was Elizabeth (1619–93), who married Sir Timothy Tyrrell, of Oakley, Buckinghamshire. She was the mother of James Tyrrell. He became prominent after meeting James I. In 1621 James I nominated Ussher Bishop of Meath. He became a national figure in Ireland, becoming Privy Councillor in 1623 and an increasingly substantial scholar. A noted collector of Irish manuscripts, he made them available for research to fellow-scholars such as his friend, Sir James Ware. From 1623 until 1626 he was again in England and was excused from his episcopal duties to study church history. He was nominated Primate of All Ireland and Archbishop of Armagh in 1625 and succeeded Christopher Hampton, who had succeeded Ussher's uncle Henry twelve years earlier.\n\nAfter his consecration in 1626, Ussher found himself in turbulent political times. Tension was rising between England and Spain, and to secure Ireland Charles I offered Irish Catholics a series of concessions, including religious toleration, known as The Graces, in exchange for money for the upkeep of the army. Ussher was a convinced Calvinist and viewed with dismay the possibility that people he regarded as anti-Christian papists might achieve any sort of power. He called a secret meeting of the Irish bishops in his house in November 1626, the result being the \"Judgement of the Arch-Bishops and Bishops of Ireland\". This begins:\n\nThe Judgement was not published until it was read out at the end of a series of sermons against the Graces given at Dublin in April 1627. In the end, the Graces were not confirmed by the Irish Parliament.\n\nDuring a four-year interregnum between Lord Deputies from 1629 on, there was an increase in efforts to impose religious conformity on Ireland. In 1633, Ussher wrote to the new Archbishop of Canterbury, William Laud, in an effort to gain support for the imposition of recusancy fines on Irish Catholics. Thomas Wentworth, who arrived as the new Lord Deputy in Ireland in 1633, deflected the pressure for conformity by stating that firstly, the Church of Ireland itself would have to be properly resourced, and he set about its re-endowment. He settled the long-running primacy dispute between the sees of Armagh and Dublin in Armagh's favour. The two clashed on the subject of the theatre: Ussher had the usual Puritan antipathy to the stage, whereas Wentworth was a keen theatre-goer, and against Ussher's opposition, oversaw the foundation of Ireland's first theatre, the Werburgh Street Theatre.\n\nUssher soon found himself at odds with the rise of Arminianism and Wentworth and Laud's desire for conformity between the Church of England and the more Calvinistic Church of Ireland. Ussher resisted this pressure at a convocation in 1634, ensuring that the English Articles of Religion were adopted as well as the Irish articles, not instead of them, and that the Irish canons had to be redrafted based on the English ones rather than replaced by them. Theologically, he was a Calvinist although on the matter of the atonement he was (somewhat privately) a hypothetical universalist. His most significant influence in this regard was John Davenant, later an English delegate to the Synod of Dort, who managed to significantly soften that Synod's teaching regarding limited atonement.\n\nIn 1633, Ussher had supported the appointment of Archbishop Laud as Chancellor of the University of Dublin. He had hoped that Laud would help to impose order on what was, Ussher accepted, a somewhat mismanaged institution. Laud did that, rewriting the charter and statutes to limit the authority of the fellows, and ensure that the appointment of the provost was under royal control. In 1634, he imposed on the College an Arminian provost, William Chappell, whose theological views, and peremptory style of government, were antithetical to everything for which Ussher stood. By 1635, it was apparent that Ussher had lost de facto control of the church to John Bramhall, Bishop of Derry, in everyday matters and to Laud in matters of policy.\n\nWilliam M. Abbott, Associate Professor of History at Fairfield University, argues that he was an effective and politically important bishop and archbishop. The Oxford Dictionary of National Biography notes that he was reactive and sought conciliation rather than confrontation. The story that he successfully opposed attempts to reintroduce the Irish language for use in church services by William Bedell, the Bishop of Kilmore, has been refuted.\n\nUssher certainly preferred to be a scholar when he could be. He engaged in extensive disputations with Roman Catholic theologians, and even as a student he challenged a Jesuit relative, Henry Fitzsimon (Ussher's mother was Catholic), to dispute publicly the identification of the Pope with the Antichrist. However, Ussher also wrote extensively on theology, patristics and ecclesiastical history, and these subjects gradually displaced his anti-Catholic work. After Convocation in 1634, Ussher left Dublin for his episcopal residence at Drogheda, where he concentrated on his archdiocese and his research. In 1631, he produced a new edition of a work first published in 1622, his \"Discourse on the Religion Anciently Professed by the Irish\", a ground-breaking study of the early Irish church, which sought to demonstrate how it differed from Rome and was, instead, much closer to the later Protestant church. This was to prove highly influential, establishing the idea that the Church of Ireland was the true successor of the early Celtic church.\n\nIn 1639, he published the most substantial history of Christianity in Britain to that date, \"Britannicarum ecclesiarum antiquitates\" — the antiquities of the British churches. It was an astonishing achievement in one respect — in gathering together so many previously unpublished manuscript sources. Ussher was very reluctant to arrive at firm judgements as to the sources' authenticity — hence his devotion of a whole chapter to the imaginative but invented stories of King Lucius and the creation of a Christian episcopate in Britain.\n\nIn 1640, Ussher left Ireland for England for what turned out to be the last time. In the years before the English Civil War, his reputation as a scholar and his moderate Calvinism meant that his opinion was sought by both King and Parliament. After Ussher lost his home and income through the Irish uprising of 1641, Parliament voted him a pension of £400 while the King awarded him the income and property of the vacant See of Carlisle.\n\nDespite their occasional differences, he remained a loyal friend to the Earl of Strafford, and when the latter was sentenced to death by Parliament, pleaded with the King not to allow the execution of the verdict: unlike some of his episcopal colleagues, he insisted that the King was absolutely bound in conscience by his promise to Strafford that whatever happened his life would be spared. The King did not take his advice, but clearly afterwards regretted not doing so, as is shown by his reference on the scaffold to Strafford's death as \"that unjust sentence which I suffered to take effect\".\n\nIn early 1641 Ussher developed a mediatory position on church government, which sought to bridge the gap between the Laudians, who believed that bishops were divinely ordained and a separate order from priests and deacons, and the presbyterians, who wanted to abolish episcopacy entirely. His proposals, not published until 1656, after his death, as The Reduction of Episcopacy, proposed a compromise where bishops operated in a presbyterian synodal system, were initially designed to support a rapprochement between Charles and the parliamentarian leadership in 1641, but were rejected by the King. They did, however, have an afterlife, being published in England and Scotland well into the eighteenth century. In all, he wrote or edited five books relating to episcopacy; the last two, treatises on the Ignatian epistles, were particular scholarly achievements that have largely survived modern scrutiny.\n\nAs the middle ground between King and Parliament vanished in 1641–1642, Ussher was forced, reluctantly, to choose between his Calvinist allies in parliament and his instinctive loyalty to the monarchy. Eventually, in January 1642 (having asked parliament's permission), he moved to Oxford, a royalist stronghold. Though Charles severely tested Ussher's loyalty by negotiating with the Catholic Irish, the Primate remained committed to the royal cause, though as king's fortunes waned Ussher had to move on to Bristol, Cardiff, and then to St Donat's.\n\nIn June 1646, he returned to London under the protection of his friend, Elizabeth, Dowager Countess of Peterborough, in whose houses he stayed from then on. He became a preacher at Lincoln's Inn early in 1647, and despite his royalist loyalties was protected by his friends in Parliament. He watched the execution of Charles I from the roof of the Countess of Peterborough's home in London but fainted before the axe fell.\n\nUssher now concentrated on his research and writing and returned to the study of chronology and the church fathers. After a 1647 work on the origin of the Creeds, Ussher published a treatise on the calendar in 1648. This was a warm-up for his most famous work, the \"Annales veteris testamenti, a prima mundi origine deducti\" (\"Annals of the Old Testament, deduced from the first origins of the world\"), which appeared in 1650, and its continuation, \"Annalium pars posterior\", published in 1654. In this work, he calculated the date of the Creation to have been nightfall on 22 October 4004 BC. (Other scholars, such as Cambridge academic, John Lightfoot, calculated their own dates for the Creation.) The time of the Ussher chronology is frequently misquoted as being 9 a.m., noon or 9 p.m. on 23 October. See the related article on the chronology for a discussion of its claims and methodology.\n\nUssher's work is now used to support Young Earth Creationism, which holds that the universe was created thousands of years ago (rather than billions). But while calculating the date of the Creation is today considered a controversial activity, in Ussher's time such a calculation was still regarded as an important task, one previously attempted by many Post-Reformation scholars, such as Joseph Justus Scaliger and physicist Isaac Newton.\n\nUssher's chronology represented a considerable feat of scholarship: it demanded great depth of learning in what was then known of ancient history, including the rise of the Persians, Greeks and Romans, as well as expertise in the Bible, biblical languages, astronomy, ancient calendars and chronology. Ussher's account of historical events for which he had multiple sources other than the Bible is usually in close agreement with modern accounts—for example, he placed the death of Alexander in 323 BC and that of Julius Caesar in 44 BC. Ussher's last extra-biblical co-ordinate was the Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar, and beyond this point he had to rely on other considerations. Faced with inconsistent texts of the Torah, each with a different number of years between Flood and Creation, Ussher chose the Masoretic version, which claims an unbroken history of careful transcription stretching back centuries—but his choice was confirmed for him, because it placed Creation exactly four thousand years before 4 BC, the generally accepted date for the birth of the 'Jesus' of the Christian faith; moreover, he calculated, Solomon's temple was completed in the year 3000 from creation, so that there were exactly 1000 years from the temple to Jesus, who was thought to be the 'fulfillment' of the Temple. Ussher remains extremely popular amongst creationists, even though they reject his methodology of using the most up to date contemporary scientific, chronological, historical and biblical scholarship to date the age of the world.\n\nIn 1655, Ussher published his last book, \"De Graeca Septuaginta Interpretum Versione\", the first serious examination of the Septuagint, discussing its accuracy as compared with the Hebrew text of the Old Testament. In 1656, he went to stay in the Countess of Peterborough's house in Reigate, Surrey. On 19 March, he felt a sharp pain in his side after supper and took to his bed. His symptoms seem to have been those of a severe internal haemorrhage. Two days later he died, aged 75. His last words were reported as: \"O Lord, forgive me, especially my sins of omission.\" His body was embalmed and was to have been buried in Reigate, but at Cromwell's insistence he was given a state funeral on 17 April and was buried in the chapel of St Erasmus in Westminster Abbey.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27122295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27122295", "title": "Joe &amp; Mac 2: Lost in the Tropics", "text": "Joe &amp; Mac 2: Lost in the Tropics\n\nJoe & Mac 2: Lost in the Tropics - released in Japan as , and in Europe as Joe & Mac 3: Lost in the Tropics - is a Super Nintendo Entertainment System video game and a sequel to \"Joe & Mac\". It is the follow-up to \"Congo's Caper\", the second game in the series.\n\nA caveman named Gork has stolen the crown belonging to the Chief of Kali Village, and it's up to the player to retrieve it by using the seven rainbow stones that he will receive in the story.\n\nThe object of the game is to defeat Neanderthals with two caveman ninja heroes along with dinosaurs and huge level bosses. Each player controls either Joe or Mac with limited lives and continues. Players can also choose to fall in love with a girlfriend in their Stone Age village; giving her flowers and meat as presents. Once the player gets married, he gets to father a child. Stone wheels are the official currency in the game and players can replay levels in order to get more stone wheels. An overhead free roam map offers a chance for players to select their level like they were playing a console role-playing game. The action-packed levels are in side view.\n\nBoss enemies include \"Stegosaurus\", \"Pteranodon\", \"Triceratops\", \"Elasmosaurus\", and \"Tyrannosaurus\". After defeating each boss, the player will earn one of the rainbow stones. During the game, friendly creatures such as \"Pteranodon\", \"Styracosaurus\" and \"Plesiosaurus\" will give the player a ride. \n\nThe game features six levels, including a valley, a jungle, a snowy mountain range, a swamp, and a volcano. In the final level, the player must defeat each of the boss enemies a second time before battling Gork. When Gork is defeated, he gains power from the crown and turns into a warthog demon. When Gork is defeated a second time, the player will earn the crown and end the game.\n\n\"GamePro\" gave the game a moderately positive review, commenting that \"If you already like Joe and his buddy Mac, you'll like 'em even more after playing this long, colorful game.\" In 2011, IGN listed the game as number 61 on their list of the top 100 SNES video games.\n\n"}
{"id": "54225977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54225977", "title": "Karli June Cerankowski", "text": "Karli June Cerankowski\n\nKJ Cerankowski is an American professor and author whose work focuses on gender and human sexuality with a focus on asexuality studies. They are an assistant professor of Comparative American Studies and Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies at Oberlin College. With Megan Milks, they co-edited \"Asexualities: Feminist and Queer Perspectives\" (Routledge, 2014).\n\nCerankowski received a Ph.D. in Modern Thought and Literature at Stanford University in 2014; they completed a dissertation entitled \"Illegible: asexualities in media, literature, and performance\" analyzing the cultural significance of asexuality as \"a queer way of thinking about sexual subjectivity, desire, and intimacy.\"\n\nCerankowski is an assistant professor of Comparative American Studies and Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies at Oberlin College. Before joining the Oberlin faculty, they were a lecturer in the department of Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies at Stanford University and a fellow at the Clayman Institute for Gender Research.\n\nWith Megan Milks, Cerankowski co-edited \"Asexualities: Feminist and Queer Perspectives\" (Routledge, 2014), one of the earliest collections of essays on the study of asexuality.\n\nCerankowski's writings have been published in \"Feminist Studies\" and \"WSQ: Women's Studies Quarterly\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36793270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36793270", "title": "Kronprinzenpalais", "text": "Kronprinzenpalais\n\nThe Kronprinzenpalais (Crown Prince's Palace) is a landmark late Neoclassical-style building at one end of Unter den Linden in Berlin. It was a palace of the ruling Hohenzollern house of Prussia until the abolition of the monarchy at the end of World War I. It then became an annexe of the Berlin National Gallery, housing a preeminent collection of modern art. It was closed by the Nazis and the building was destroyed in World War II. It was rebuilt in 1968 and used by East Germany as a guest house for official visitors to their capital of East Berlin. Since German reunification it has been used for exhibitions and cultural events.\n\nJohann Arnold Nering created the building in 1663–69 as the private residence of Cabinet Secretary Johann Martitz, converting an existing middle-class house. From 1706 to 1732, it was the official residence of the Governor of Berlin.\n\nIn 1732, Philipp Gerlach remodelled the building in baroque style with a protruding central bay and a carriage drive rising to the front entrance, to serve as a residence for the Crown Prince, the future King Frederick II. He and his wife Elisabeth Christine stayed there only intermittently before his accession to the throne in 1740, after which he took up residence in part of the royal palace. He gave the Kronprinzenpalais to his brother Augustus William; after Augustus William's death in 1758, his widow continued to use it until 1780.\n\nThe building was then renovated and refurnished in Neoclassical style (with furniture from Prussia rather than France) and became the residence of Crown Prince Frederick William (the future Frederick William III) and his wife Louise, who lived there with their children and Countess Voss, who had an apartment near the entrance. They remained there after he became king and the Palace was now called \"Königliches Palais\" (Royal Palace). Johann Gottfried Schadow created his double statue of Crown Princess Louise and her sister Frederica, the \"Prinzessinnengruppe\", in the palace in 1795–97. The future Emperor William I was born there on 22 March 1797. In the early 19th century, Karl Friedrich Schinkel renovated several rooms in the palace; he also designed an extension over the Oberwallstraße connecting the palace to the \"Kronprinzessinnenpalais\" (Crown Princesses' Palace), where the king's three daughters were living; this was built in 1811 by Heinrich Gentz in association with his remodelling of the exterior of the Prinzessinenpalais. After Louise's early death, Frederick William maintained a family shrine to her in the palace. The main building was known as the \"Königliches Palais\" (Royal Palace) until 1840; after 1840, when the king died, it was known as the former Royal Palace, and was not used by any members of the royal family; during the reign of Frederick William IV, it housed court officials, and Rudolf Lepke, who founded a major auction house, grew up there.\n\nIn 1856–57, Johann Heinrich Strack extensively rebuilt the palace for William I's son, Prince Frederick William (the future Kaiser Frederick III), giving it substantially its present appearance. Strack replaced the mansard roof with a third storey with Corinthian pillars, and added neo-classical details to the façade, whose columns he changed from Tuscan to Corinthian. The four statues above the entrance remained, but he added a tall columned portico surmounted by a balcony. He also built a setback addition on the east side of the building, with a colonnade on its Unter den Linden and Niederlagstraße sides. After 1861, when Frederick William's father acceded to the throne and he became Crown Prince, the building was once again known as the Kronprinzenpalais; he resided there with his wife Princess Victoria, daughter of England's Queen Victoria.\n\nTheir eldest son, who would be the last German Emperor as Wilhelm II, was born in the palace on 27 January 1859. Princess Victoria welcomed artists and scholars to the palace, including Heinrich von Angeli, Anton von Werner and Adolph von Menzel. However, after Frederick III's death in 1888 following a 99-day reign, she was usually at her new residence, Schloß Friedrichshof, and the palace was rarely used. Beginning in 1905, it was used as a winter residence by Wilhelm II's heir, Crown Prince Wilhelm, and his wife Crown Princess Cecilie. During the November revolution in Berlin in 1918, revolutionary leaders addressed the crowd from the entrance ramp of the palace.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the monarchy, the palace became a possession of the State of Prussia, which gave it to the National Gallery in 1919 to house its drawing collection. The director, Ludwig Justi, used this annexe to the existing building (now known as the Alte Nationalgalerie) to house a new department devoted to living artists, the \"Galerie der Lebenden\", something which he had proposed the previous year and which contemporary artists themselves had been demanding. This opened on 4 August 1919 with approximately 150 paintings and sculptures including naturalistic and French Impressionist works, a sculpture by Rodin (in a room retaining the old palace décor, which also featured paintings by Cézanne, Van Gogh, and Manet), works representing both the establishment \"Verein Berliner Künstler\" and the Berlin Secession, and on the top floor in a temporary display, works by members of Die Brücke and other Expressionists. This was the first state promotion in Germany of Expressionist works, which were unpopular with large numbers of the public. The gallery was a pioneer of the museum of contemporary art; in the judgement of the assistant director of the National Gallery at the time, the collection was superior to that of all other German galleries then collecting modern art. It served as a model for later institutions, notably the Museum of Modern Art in New York, which opened two years after its first director, Alfred H. Barr, Jr., visited the Kronprinzenpalais in 1927. On the other hand, the art critic Karl Scheffler, who favoured Impressionism and disliked Expressionism, attacked Justi for opening the contemporary art gallery, publishing a book in 1921 with the title \"Berliner Museumskrieg\" (Berlin Museum War).\n\nAfter the Nazis came to power in 1933, there was an initial period of tolerance of modern art, but then Hitler ordered the galleries to be \"cleansed\" of it, in particular the Kronprinzenpalais. In May 1936, works from the Ismar Littmann collection of Expressionist art which had been confiscated by the Gestapo from a Berlin auction house were burnt in the furnace. Eberhard Hanfstaengl, the then director of the National Gallery, was ordered to set aside only a few \"historically valuable\" works and saved five paintings and ten drawings. The Expressionist gallery was closed in October 1936, after the Berlin Olympics had ended, as a \"hotbed of cultural Bolshevism\".\n\nIn the 1937 Nazi operation against \"Entartete Kunst\" (degenerate art), the National Gallery lost a total of 435 works. The Kronprinzenpalais contributed far more works than any other institution to the exhibition by that name which opened in Munich on 19 July. The majority of the Expressionist works were officially labelled \"Verfallskunst\" (art of decay) the same month. National Gallery Director Justi had been forced out in the 1933 purge of ideologically suspect academics and civil servants; his successor, Alois Schardt, was forced to resign after Bernhard Rust, the Nazi Minister of Education for Prussia, who had responsibility for museums, visited the modern art gallery; he was in turn succeeded by Hanfstaengl, who was also forced to resign after refusing to meet with Adolf Ziegler and his commission charged with identifying and removing the \"degenerate\" artworks. The commission made two \"cleansing\" visits to the Kronprinzenpalais: on 7 July before the exhibition opened and again in August. Some members of the commission were at first reluctant to purge the works of August Macke and Franz Marc, both of whom had died fighting in the First World War; they were ultimately also removed, but works by Marc including \"Tower of Blue Horses\" were removed from the \"Entartete Kunst\" exhibition before it moved from Munich to Berlin. The National Gallery was compensated RM 150,000 for \"The Garden of Daubigny\" by Van Gogh and RM 15,000 for four paintings by Paul Signac and Edvard Munch by Göring, who took a group of 13 modern paintings to offer them privately for sale through an art dealer he knew, and roughly one sixth of its total loss of over RM 1 million after the official auctions of \"degenerate art\" in Switzerland.\n\nLater in 1937, the building became the seat of the Prussian Academy of Arts, whose building in Pariser Platz had been requisitioned by Albert Speer's office. The Director of the Schauspielhaus theatre in the Gendarmenmarkt, Gustaf Gründgens, also temporarily had his office in the building.\n\nIn March 1945, the Kronprinzenpalais was gutted in an Allied bomb attack. Until 1958, a ballet school used a remaining rear section, but the site was entirely cleared in 1961.\n\nIn 1968–69, to complete the restoration of the south side of Unter den Linden and make a suitable visual transition to the newly completed Foreign Ministry skyscraper (since demolished) and the rest of the East German government district immediately to the east, the Kronprinzenpalais was rebuilt with approximately the same exterior appearance as after Strack's work by Richard Paulick, a former associate of Walter Gropius who had already rebuilt the Kronprinzessinnenpalais and the State Opera, and Werner Prendel. (Paulick had originally intended to rebuild it as it had been in 1733, for use as a modern museum, music school, or performance space, but conceptions of the role of the area changed in the 1960s.) However, the top floor was extended to include the east wing to improve the building's proportions, and the interior (1968–70) was modern. As the \"Palais Unter den Linden\", it was used as a guest house by the Magistrat, the governing executive of East Berlin. The Unification Agreement was signed there on 31 August 1990, after which the Senate of Berlin took possession of the building.\n\nThe garden, which extends from Oberwallstraße to Niederlagstraße and has underground parking garages under part of it, was newly laid out in 1969–70 by W. Hinkefuß and descends in terraces to a central lawn, and then rises again in further terraces to a restaurant called the Schinkelklause, which incorporates pieces of terracotta and an entrance from Schinkel's Bauakademie, which was partially destroyed in World War II and demolished around 1960. The sculptures in the garden are by , Gerhard Thierse and .\n\nFrom 1998 to 2003, the Kronprinzenpalais was used as temporary exhibit space by the Deutsches Historisches Museum while its primary building, the Zeughaus across the street, was under renovation. It continues to be used for exhibitions and other cultural events. For example, in 2005 it housed an exhibition on Albert Einstein, and in spring 2006 Joshua Sobol's polydrama \"Alma\", on Alma Mahler, played scenes simultaneously in various rooms, which required temporarily reconstructing the historical appearance of the interior. In 2006 the building housed \"Erzwungene Wege—Flucht und Vertreibung im Europa des 20. Jahrhunderts\", a controversial exhibition on expulsions of Germans in 20th-century Europe organised by the Federation of Expellees, and in March–June 2012 it housed a three-part exhibition dealing more broadly with forced exile and including \"Erzwungene Wege\" as one of its components. The building is a Berlin historic landmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40784246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40784246", "title": "List of language education in China", "text": "List of language education in China\n\nG8 refers to the Group of Eight Universities of Foreign Languages and International Studies in China, who have the academic specialisation in foreign language teaching and international studies.\n\n\n\nThese are the universities that provide Early Admission Scheme for high-achievers who intend to major in foreign language studies. \nMost of them are among the 36 leading universities in mainland China.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35144433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35144433", "title": "Loup language", "text": "Loup language\n\nLoup is an extinct Algonquian language, or possibly group of languages, spoken in colonial New England. \"Loup\" (\"Wolf\") was a French colonial ethnographic term, and usage was inconsistent. In modern literature, it refers to two varieties, Loup A and Loup B.\nLoup A, which may be the language of the Nipmuck, is principally attested from a word list recorded from refugees by the St. Francis mission to the Abenaki in Quebec. The descendants of these refugees became speakers of Western Abenaki in the eighteenth century. Loup B refers to a second word list, which shows extensive dialectal variation. This may not be a distinct language, but just notes on the speech of various New England Algonquian refugees in French missions.\nThe phonology of Loup A (Nipmuck), reconstructed by Gustafson 2000: \n\nThe vowel sounds likely have the same phonetic quality as other southern New England Algonquian languages. The short vowels /i o e a/ may represent the sounds as /ɪ, /ʊ/, /ɛ,ə/, and /ʌ/, while the long vowels /iː/, /oː/, and /ã/ correspond to /i/, /o/, and /ã/.\n\n"}
{"id": "1639116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1639116", "title": "Middle East Theatre of World War II", "text": "Middle East Theatre of World War II\n\nThe Middle East Theatre of World War II is defined largely by reference to the British Middle East Command, which controlled Allied forces in both Southwest Asia and eastern North Africa. From 1943, most of the action and forces concerned were in the adjoining Mediterranean Theatre.\n\nThe region was quiet for the first few months of the war, until Fascist Italy declared war against France and Britain on June 10, 1940. It remained a major active theatre for two and a half years until the British Commonwealth Eighth Army crossed the border from Libya into Tunisia. In February 1943, command of the Eighth Army passed from Middle East Command to the Allied Joint command for the Mediterranean, Allied Forces Headquarters (AFHQ). Saudi Arabia, posturing as neutral though somewhat favoring the Allies, officially declared war on Germany and Japan in February 1945, though, in reality, the entire Middle East Theatre was quiet from 1943 until the end of the war.\n\nThe Allies initially believed that the Middle East (Southwest Asia) could become a major operational theatre, because they thought that the Germans might invade the area. This did not materialise, although when Allied forces occupied much of the area, in anticipation of such an invasion, there was fighting against Vichy French forces in Lebanon and Syria, and against Iraq in the Anglo-Iraqi War which ended when Baghdad fell to British forces.\n\nThe Italian forces in North Africa greatly outnumbered the British. However, Allied forces were able to not only defend against Italian incursions but also to defeat the defending Italians and take over their colonies in Ethiopia and Somaliland. By February 1941, Commonwealth forces appeared to be on the verge of overrunning the last Italian forces in Libya, which would have ended Axis control in all of Africa.\n\nWhile the fighting was taking place in Libya, Axis forces were attacking Greece. The Allied commander, General Archibald Wavell, was ordered to stop his advance against Libya and send troops to Greece. He disagreed with this decision but followed his orders.\n\nThe Allies were unable to stop Greece falling to the Axis forces and before they could retake the initiative in the Western Desert, the German \"Afrika Korps\" had entered the theatre. It would not be until early in 1943, after another year and a half of hard fighting and mixed fortunes, that the Axis forces would be finally driven out of Libya and the theatre would again become an Allied-controlled backwater.\n\nIn late 1940, the Italians attacked Greece from Albania in the Greco-Italian War. Not only did the Greeks stop the attack, they forced the Italians back. Eventually, in the spring of 1941, the Germans intervened in Greece. They also invaded Yugoslavia concurrently.\n\nThe Greeks had been reluctant to allow Commonwealth ground forces into the country, because Britain could not spare enough forces to guarantee victory. They had, however, accepted aid from the RAF in their war with the Italians in Albania. The trigger for Commonwealth forces moving to Greece in large numbers was the entry of German forces into Bulgaria, which made clear the German intent to invade Greece.\n\nCommonwealth forces took position on a defensive line running from north-west to south-east across the northern part of Greece. However, there were critical weaknesses in the defences. The Greek forces in the area were further forward than the Commonwealth forces, and the Greek Government ignored suggestions that they should withdraw to a common line. The Greek forces were thus defeated in detail. There was also a large gap between the left flank of Commonwealth forces and the right flank of the Greek forces in Albania. That was exploited fully by the Germans.\n\nAfter being expelled from the Greek mainland, Commonwealth forces retreated to Crete. There, the Germans again exploited weaknesses in the defences with a bold invasion plan. In the largest and last German airborne assault, paratroops landed at several points on the island and the Battle of Crete began. In all but one location, they were cut off and destroyed, and the follow-on seaborne forces were dispersed by the Allied navies. However, that one location was enough, and reinforcements were flown in to the point where the Germans were strong enough to break out and take the rest of the island.\n\nCommand in London eventually decided the cause was hopeless, and ordered a withdrawal from Sfakia. Over the next four nights 16,000 troops were taken off Crete to Egypt. A smaller number were withdrawn on a separate mission from Heraklion, but these ships were attacked en-route by Luftwaffe dive bombers and suffered serious losses. On 1 June the remaining 5,000 defenders at Sfakia surrendered, although many took to the hills and caused the German occupation problems for years.\n\nDuring the evacuation of Crete Admiral Andrew Cunningham was determined that the \"navy must not let the army down\", when Mr. Winnie stated their fears that too many ships would be lost, Cunningham said, \"It takes three years to build a ship, it takes three centuries to build a tradition.\" Nevertheless, large numbers of Allied soldiers were taken prisoner on Crete.\n\nOn 4 August 1940, Italy's forces in Italian East Africa (\"Africa Orientale Italiana\", AOI) attempted to conquer British Somaliland. The Italians took the British colony's capital city of Berbera on 19 August. The Italians also staged very minor raids across the Sudanese and Kenyan borders in 1940.\n\nItalian success in East Africa was short-lived. On 19 January 1941, British Commonwealth forces counter-attacked from Sudan in the north and Kenya in the south. On May 6, the capital city of AOI, Addis Ababa, fell. Haile Selassie had managed to enter the city on 5 May. On 18 May, Prince Amedeo, 3rd Duke of Aosta, the Italian Governor-General of AOI, surrendered in Amba Alagi which all but ended hostilities. Some isolated Italian units fought on. But, when the Italian forces under General Guglielmo Nasi in Gondar surrendered on 27 November, major Italian resistance ended at the hands of the British.\n\nIn March 1942 the Indian 10th Infantry Division was in Iraq. It had fought Iraq, and in the invasions of Syria, Lebanon, and Persia. As its soon to be promoted commander Major-General William Slim wrote: \"We could move we could fight and we had begun to build up that most valuable of all assets a tradition of success. ... it was stimulating to be at what we all felt was a critical spot, waiting for the threatened German invasion of Turkey.\"\n\nAlthough Southwest Asia was destined to remain a strategic backwater for the duration of World War II, in late 1941 and early 1942 the Allies were not certain that it would remain so. Before the turning points of the Battle of Stalingrad (June 1942 to February, 1943) and the Second Battle of El Alamein (October to November 1942), the fear was that the Germans might attack the area either through Turkey, or via Cyprus into Lebanon; or through defeating of the British 8th Army in Egypt. If the anticipated attack came through Turkey or Lebanon, then not only could the Axis Powers threaten British controlled Egypt and the strategically important Suez Canal via an advance through Palestine and the Sinai Peninsula, it would also allow the Germans an alternative route to attack the Soviet Union from Southwest Asia north through the USSR's southern frontiers. In the slightly longer term the British feared independent regimes in the region as well as the possibility that the Germans might follow in Alexander the Great's footsteps and attack British controlled India from Persia in the west as Japan simultaneously attacked India from the east through Burma.\n\nCommonwealth forces in the region were for the most part under the Commander-in-Chief of the Middle East Command based in Cairo. The exception was Persia which for some of the time came under the command of the Commander-in-Chief in India.\n\nStarting in July 1940, the Italian bombings in the British Mandate of Palestine were primarily centered on Tel Aviv and Haifa. However, many other coastal towns such as Acre and Jaffa also suffered. On 9 September 1940, a bombing raid on Tel Aviv caused 137 deaths.\n\nAs in most of the Arab world, there was no unanimity amongst the Palestinian Arabs as to their position regarding the combatants in WWII. Some signed up for the British army - into the mixed Palestine Regiment unit, but others saw an Axis victory as their best hope of gaining Arab control of Palestine. Some of the leadership went further, especially the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, Haj Amin Al-Husseini (by then settled in Axis occupied Europe), who on November 25, 1941, formally declared \"jihad\" against the Allied Powers. During the war, the British forbade entry of Jews into Palestine escaping Nazi persecution, placing them in detention camps or deporting them to other places such as Mauritius. However, over 30,000 Palestinian Jews fought for Great Britain during World War II, within the regular British army, Palestine Regiment and the Jewish Brigade. David Ben Gurion, leader of the Jewish Agency, which was the mainstream Zionist organization in Palestine, had said \"We will fight the White Paper as if there is no war, and fight the war as if there is no White Paper.\" By 1940, The Haganah and other underground Jewish militias ordered complete cease fire with the British, in favor of the joint war effort against the Axis, but continued smuggling attempts of Jewish refugees from Iraq and Europe into British Palestine.\n\nIraq had been officially granted independence by the United Kingdom in 1932, under a number of conditions, including the retention of British military bases. This caused resentment within Iraq and a pro-Axis prime minister, Rashid Ali, assumed control. In early 1941, Ali ordered the occupying British forces to withdraw.\n\nThe Middle East Command hastily assembled a formation known as Iraqforce — which included the Indian 10th Infantry Division and the Arab Legion — and it arrived on April 18. There were two main British military bases in Iraq, at Basra and at Habbaniya, north east of Baghdad. On April 30, the Iraqi Army surrounded and besieged the isolated and poorly defended Royal Air Force base at Habbaniya. Although the base had no offensive aircraft, RAF personnel converted training aircraft to carry weapons, and attacked the Iraqi forces.\n\nHabbaniya was soon relieved by Iraqforce, which defeated the larger but poorly trained Iraqi Army in a series of battles, even though the Iraqis received direct aid from the \"Luftwaffe\". Iraqforce pressed on from Habbaniya to Baghdad and then to Mosul. Rashid Ali and his supporters fled the country and an armistice was signed. Prior to the arrival of British forces to Baghdad, the power vacuum erupted into a series of massacres and looting (Farhud), in which the Baghdadi Jewish community was hit particularly hard.\n\nA Luftwaffe aircraft was shot down over Iraq during the advance on Baghdad. Since the nearest Axis bases were on Rhodes, the Allies realised that the plane had refueled in Vichy French controlled Syria or Lebanon. This confirmed suspicions among the Allies regarding the \"armed neutrality\" of Vichy territories.\n\nAustralian, Free French, British and Indian units invaded Syria and Lebanon from Palestine in the south on 8 June 1941. Vigorous resistance was put up by the Vichy. However, the Allies' better training and equipment, as well as the weight of numbers eventually told against the Axis. Further attacks were launched at the end of June and early July from Iraq into northern and central Syria by troops from Iraqforce. By 8 July the whole of north east Syria had been captured and elements of Iraqforce advancing up the river Euphrates were threatening Aleppo and as a consequence the rear of the Vichy forces defending Beirut from the advance from the south. Negotiations for an armistice were started on 11 July and surrender terms signed on 14 July.\n\nThe final major military operation in the war in the Middle East campaign took place shortly thereafter. The Soviet Union desperately needed supplies for its war against Germany. Supplies were being sent round the North Cape convoy route to Murmansk and Archangel, but the capacity of that route was limited and subject to enemy action. Supplies were also sent from America to Vladivostok in Soviet-flagged ships. However, yet more capacity was needed, the obvious answer was to go through Iran. The Shah of Iran was deemed as pro-German; he would not allow this free access. Consequently, British and Soviet forces invaded and occupied Iran. The Shah was deposed and his son put on the throne.\n\nAfter the fall of France and before United States land forces entered the war in Operation Torch, the north African campaign in the Sahara desert and Mediterranean coastal plains of Libya and western Egypt was the major land front between Western Allied and Axis forces.\n\nIn September 1940, Italian forces stationed in Libya crossed the border and launched an invasion into Egypt. After advancing to Sidi Barrani they set up defensive positions in order to regroup and resupply before continuing.\n\nIn December, the outnumbered Allied forces launched Operation Compass which was initially to be a five-day raid against the Italian defensive positions in Egypt. Ultimately the raid turned into a full-scale counter-offensive against Italian forces in Egypt and Libya. The operation was more successful than planned and resulted in the capture of the Libyan province of Cyrenaica and the advance of the Allied forces as far as El Agheila. Over 100,000 Italian prisoners were taken.\n\nThe defeat of Italian forces did not go unnoticed and soon the German Africa Corps (\"Deutsches Afrikakorps\"), commanded by Erwin Rommel, were sent in to reinforce the Italians. Although ordered to simply hold the line, Rommel launched an offensive from El Agheila in March 1941 which, with the exception of Tobruk, managed to press the Allies beyond Salum on the Egyptian border, effectively putting both sides back at their approximate pre-war positions.\n\nDuring the following stalemate, the Allied forces were reinforced and reorganised as the Eighth Army. In addition to British formations, the army was made up of divisions from the armies of several countries: the Australian Army, the Indian Army, the South African Army, and the New Zealand Army. There was also a brigade of Free French under Marie-Pierre Koenig. In November 1941 the new formation launched a new offensive, Operation Crusader, and recaptured almost all of the territory recently acquired by Rommel and lifting the Siege of Tobruk. Once again, the front line was at El Agheila.\n\nAfter receiving supplies from Tripoli, Rommel was able to push the Allies back to Gazala, west of Tobruk. After a period when both sides were rebuilding their strength, the Axis forces defeated the Allies in May 1942 at the Battle of Gazala, capturing Tobruk, and drove them back to past the border of Egypt. Deep into Egypt, the Axis forces were halted in July at the First Battle of El Alamein.\n\nAt this point General Harold Alexander took over as commander-in-Chief Middle East Command and Lieutenant-General Bernard Montgomery took over the Eighth Army under him. After victory in the defensive battle of Alam Halfa in late August and early September, the Eighth Army went on the offensive in October 1942 and decisively defeated the Axis at the Second El Alamein. The Axis forces were pursued through Libya and the capital Tripoli was captured by Eighth Army in January 1943.\n\nAfter the advance of the Eighth Army into eastern Tunisia in early 1943, 18th Army Group was formed to control Eighth Army and First Army which was attacking Tunisia from the west after the successful Allied Operation Torch in November 1942. Strategic command of Eighth Army thus passed from C-in-C Middle East Command to Dwight Eisenhower, the Joint Allied Commander of AFHQ, under which 18th Army Group came.\n\nThe British Middle East Command was based in Cairo with responsibility for Commonwealth operations in the Middle East and North Africa, and also those in East Africa, Persia, and the Balkans, including Greece. In August 1942 forces in Persia and Iran (known as Paiforce) were detached and brought under the separate, newly formed Persia and Iraq Command under General Sir Henry Maitland Wilson (the post having been turned down by Auchinleck, the outgoing Middle East Command C-in-C).\n\nThe Commanders-in-Chief (C-in-C)s were\n\n"}
{"id": "6041628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6041628", "title": "Motul de San José", "text": "Motul de San José\n\nMotul de San José is an ancient Maya site located just north of Lake Petén Itzá in the Petén Basin region of the southern Maya lowlands. It is a few kilometres from the modern village of San José, in Guatemala's northern department of Petén. A medium-sized civic-ceremonial centre, it was an important political and economic centre during the Late Classic period (AD 650–950).\n\nThe site was first settled between 600 and 300 BC, in the latter portion of the Middle Preclassic period, when it most likely was a fairly small site. This Maya city then had a long and continuous occupational history until the Early Postclassic, up to around AD 1250, with peaks in the Late Preclassic and Late Classic periods. Motul de San José had begun to refer to Tikal as its overlord in the late 4th century AD; by the 7th century it had switched its allegiance to Calakmul, Tikal's great rival, before returning its allegiance to Tikal in the early 8th century. In the late 8th century Motul de San José appears to have been conquered by Dos Pilas, capital of the Petexbatún kingdom.\n\nMost natural resources were easily available in the immediate vicinity of the city. The nearby port at La Trinidad de Nosotros was an important hub for the import of exotic goods and export of local products such as chert and ceramics. Other goods not immediately available were likely to have been provided by the city’s satellite sites. The local area provided a number of different soils suitable for varied agricultural use, and the port at La Trinidad de Nosotros provided the city with freshwater products such as turtles, crocodiles and freshwater molluscs. Deer were hunted locally and provided an important source of protein for the upper class, while freshwater snails were the main source of protein for commoners.\n\nMotul de San José has been identified as the source of Ik-style polychrome ceramics bearing painted scenes of the Late Classic Maya aristocracy involved in a variety of courtly activities. The Ik-style was characterised by hieroglyphs painted in a pink or pale red colour, scenes with dancers wearing masks, and the realistic representation of subjects as they appeared in life. The city was the capital of a polity that included various satellite sites of varying importance, including a port on the shore of Lake Petén Itzá.\n\nMotul de San José is located from the north shore of Lake Petén Itzá, in the centre of the department of El Petén. The nearest town is Flores, to the south, on the other side of the lake. The nearest villages are San José, away, and San Andrés, away, both are to the south of the site, on the northern shore of the lake. The archaeological site is connected to Nuevo San José, a northern expansion of San José, by a dirt road. It lies among land that has been cleared of forest within the last century and is now used to plant maize and graze cattle.\n\nMotul de San José lies on a limestone plateau at the northern edge of the fault depression that underlies the central lakes of the Petén Basin. The local topography consists of ridges, generally running east-west or northeast-southwest alternating with lower-lying areas with clay soils. These low-lying areas tend to feed into drainage systems flowing into either Lake Petén Itzá itself or into the Akte River. The Kantetul River is a seasonal watercourse with its origin to the northeast of the site and flowing westwards into the Akte River, passing from the site core. The Akte River in turn flows west into the San Pedro River, which flows northwest into Mexico where it joins the Usumacinta River and ultimately empties into the Gulf of Mexico. A mixture of ancient and modern agricultural terraces line the riverbank, north of the site core. Access to water was crucial for Maya cities, since much of the Maya lowlands have been described as a seasonal desert due to the combination of a prolonged dry season lasting between four and six months together with the limestone geography that makes surface water scarce. In addition the Maya greatly preferred water to land transport and used canoes to trade extensively by river and sea, and access to river routes connected cities to extensive trade routes.\n\nMotul de San José lies within a dense cluster of smaller satellite sites. It is to the southwest of the major Classic Period ruins of Tikal. The site is about north of Guatemala City. The ruins are located on a hill about above mean sea level.\n\nThe site forms part of the Motul Ecological Park (\"Parque Ecológico Motul\" in Spanish), which is administered by \"Instituto de Antropología e Historia\" (IDAEH), the Guatemalan Institute of Anthropology and History), the University of San Carlos of Guatemala (USAC) and the local communities of San José and Nuevo San José. The park covers an area of approximately .\n\nMaya cities and kingdoms in the Classic Period were identified in hieroglyphic texts by a distinctive emblem glyph; they are essentially royal titles composed of three distinct parts – the glyphs representing \"k'uhul\" and \"ajau\" (meaning \"divine\" and \"lord\") followed by the name of the polity this person ruled over. The decipherment of emblem glyphs was crucial to the interpreting the political makeup of Classic Period Maya civilization.\n\nThe emblem glyph of Motul de San José contains the main sign \"ik\", \"breath\" or \"wind\". It is found on monuments and ceramics from the 8th and 9th centuries. A vessel bearing this emblem and depicting king Lamaw Ek' was found as far away as Altar de Sacrificios. Analysis has revealed that it was manufactured in Motul de San José, indicating some form of interaction between these distant sites.\n\nThe majority of basic natural resources were readily available in the immediate vicinity of the city, with local soils being suitable for the production of maize and mixed crops to support the local populace. The subsidiary site of La Trinidad de Nosotros, located on the shore of Lake Petén Itzá some southeast of the site core, appears to have been an important port for the import and export of goods to and from Motul de San José. Food resources not available in the immediate vicinity of the city were probably provided by the satellite sites dispersed at some distance from the site core, and La Trinidad is likely to have played an important part in supplying exotic goods to the city as well as freshwater foodstuffs such as crocodiles, fish and turtles. Chert nodules were locally available from the first ridges to the north of the lake. A chert workshop has been discovered in the northern sector of Motul de San José. Ceramic figurines were produced in the Acropolis palace complex in Group C and also in a medium-sized palace complex in Group B, an elite plaza in Group E and also in two elite plazas in the northern part of the site.\n\nThe small satellite site of Chak Maman Tok' several kilometers to the southwest of Motul de San José, appears to have been an important centre for the production of chert tools, with only a few other centres within the Maya lowlands manufacturing chert on such a scale. Although very small, Chak Maman Tok' probably played a major part within the economy of the Motul de San José polity.\n\nDifferences in architectural style between elite residential complexes and in the activities carried out at them suggest that the aristocracy of Motul de San José was divided into several distinct classes, including the royal family resident in Group C, royal courtiers and low to middle rank nobles.\n\nThe Kantetul River, although now seasonal, is reported to have been a navigable water channel until relatively recently. During the height of Motul de San José's power, it may have provided an important link to the San Pedro River, a significant trade route in ancient times.\n\nMotul de San José is possibly the source of the so-called \"Ik-style\" painted polychrome ceramics, a theory that has recently received additional support from archaeological excavations at the site. These ceramic vessels, including finely painted plates and cylindrical vessels, were first associated with the then-unidentified site of Ik in the 1970s by the Emblem Glyph included in the hieroglyphic texts on them. The confirmation of Motul de San José as Ik came from investigations carried out from 1998 to 2004. Chemical analysis of Ik-style ceramics have revealed that they were not only produced in workshops in Motul itself but also in satellite sites in the vicinity.\n\nThe Ik-style ceramic corpus includes a set of features such as hieroglyphs painted in a pink or pale red colour and scenes with dancers wearing masks. One of the most distinctive features is the realistic representation of subjects as they appeared in life, something that is very rare in Mesoamerican art. The corpus is represented by more than 30 intact vessels, the majority of unknown provenance, which have been compared to ceramic fragments recovered from Motul de San José and its satellite sites. The subject matter of the vessels includes courtly life from the Petén region in the 8th century AD, such as diplomatic representations, feasting, bloodletting, scenes of warriors and the sacrifice of prisoners of war.\n\nThe variations in artistic style and chemical composition of the Ik-style ceramics suggests that they were produced in a number of workshops local to the Motul de San José area. They have been subdivided into five types, four from Motul de San José itself and one from one of its satellite sites. There are also various lower-quality examples that are presumed to have been manufactured in sites of lesser importance within the Motul de San José polity. The Ik-style ceramics are believed to have been produced in the period from 740–800 AD. In spite of differences, all the Ik-style ceramics are thought to have been made within a network of allied workshops dedicated to producing vessels for use in the banquets of the aristocracy of Motul de San José and of the petty nobility of the capital's satellites. The ceramics were distributed widely in the Maya region as gifts in order to seal alliances between the elites of various Maya kingdoms.\n\nOf particular note is that chemical analysis of ceramic fragments has revealed that the very same workshops not only produced the highest-quality Ik-style polychrome ceramics but also general low-quality ceramics for household use. High quality Ik-style ceramics made at Motul de San José have been excavated from across the Maya region, including Tikal and Uaxactún to the northeast of the city, Copán far to the south, and Altar de Sacrificios, Tamarindito and Seibal, in western Petén.\n\nA particularly rare feature found on Motul de San José ceramics is the so-called X-ray style, showing a figure wearing a mask but also portraying his face underneath it. All the other representations using this rare style are depicted on Late Classic sculptures at sites with which it is known that Motul de San José had contact at this time, including Dos Pilas, Machaquila, Tikal and Yaxchilan. This X-ray style has been found on at least nine painted vessels from Motul de San José and is also used on the west side of Stela 2.\n\nMotul de San José was occupied from the Middle Preclassic right through to the Early Postclassic. However, the height of the city's occupation was the Late Classic. Settlement density averages 250 structures per square kilometer (650 structures per square mile) in the site's monumental core, 125 structures per square kilometer (325 structures per square mile) in the city's suburban area and 79 structures per square kilometer (205 structures per square mile) in the site's periphery.\n\nMotul de San José's likely resource catchment zone probably extended between around the site core and included a number of satellite sites including Kantetul, La Trinidad de Nosotros, Akte, Buena Vista, Chachaklum and Chakokot. This region also includes two major water sources in the form of Lake Péten Itzá to the south and the Kantetul river to the north. The area around the city included a variety of soils suitable for agriculture, with 20% of this being very fertile soil highly suited to agriculture, just over 50% of the area was very fertile but required high maintenance (consisting of either fertilization or crop rotation) and 14% being low fertility soil consisting of lowland clay and suitable only for maize or being left unfarmed. Soil analysis has revealed that maize was not only grown in peripheral areas but also close to residential areas throughout Motul de San José.\n\nArchaeological investigations have revealed that the diet of the inhabitants of Motul de San José included dogs (\"Canis familiaris\"), turtles including pond sliders (\"Trachemys scripta\") and Mesoamerican river turtles (\"Dermatemys mawii\"), freshwater snails (mostly \"Pomacea flagellata\" but also jute snails (\"Pachychilus spp.\")), white-tailed deer (\"Odocoileus virginianus\"), red brocket (\"Mazama americana\", a species of small deer), white-lipped peccary (\"Tayassu pecari\"), rabbits (\"Sylvilagus spp.\"), lowland pacas (\"Cuniculus paca\"), Central American agouti (\"Dasyprocta punctata\") and nine-banded armadillos (\"Dasypus novemcinctus\"). Only the dog had been domesticated by the Late Classic Maya so the majority of protein in the diet of the inhabitants came from hunting and fishing within the catchment area around the city. The most common food animals were the white-tailed deer, river clam and river turtle. Some animal remains were recovered that were clearly associated with elite status occupation, such as those of the jaguar, the ocelot or other small feline and the crocodile (\"crocodilus spp.\"). These latter three appear more related to ritual and economic activity than nutritional needs. Freshwater snails were more an ingredient in the diet of lower status families while deer remains were associated with the elite residents of the city.\n\nAmong Motul de San José and its most important satellite La Trinidad de Nosotros, the majority of remains from Trinidad were from aquatic species, while at Motul de San José the majority were from terrestrial species. 10% of animal remains from Motul had been modified to form artefacts, compared with only 4% of animal remains at Trinidad. Artefact remains found at La Trinidad de Nosotros were more likely to be waste products from artefact manufacture while at Motul de San José they were more likely to be artefacts at the end of their usable life. Aquatic animal products arriving at Motul de San José were far more likely to be consumed by the elite than by commoners, whether used as food or to craft artefacts.\n\nMotul de San José was first settled between 600 and 300 BC, in the latter portion of the Middle Preclassic period, when it was probably a fairly small site. At this time some of its satellite sites were also settled, including La Trinidad de Nosotros and Buena Vista, both of which would have been small villages at this time, and they may have been settled even earlier in the Middle Preclassic, between 800 and 600 BC.\n\nAlthough investigation of Preclassic remains is difficult at Motul de San José due to the overlying Late Classic construction, it is evident that the site experienced major growth during the Late Preclassic (300 BC–AD 300) and became a sizeable centre. At roughly the same time, most of the major structures were built at Akte, and Chakokot experienced its earliest occupation during the Late Preclassic. In contrast, Buena Vista appears to have been lightly occupied. La Trinidad de Nosotros also underwent major expansion in the Late Preclassic and became larger and more important than Motul de San José, with its architectural layout being finalised in this period – later Classic period construction was superimposed upon pre-existing Late Preclassic structures.\n\nAlthough Motul de San José had begun to refer to Tikal as its overlord in the late 4th century, by the 7th century various hieroglyphic texts mention that it was under the dominion of Calakmul, Tikal's greatest enemy, before again coming under the power of Tikal in the early 8th century.\n\nEarly Classic ceramic finds are scarce at Motul de San José and those that have been found were a minor component in mixed fill deposits. This suggests that Motul de San José was largely abandoned in the Early Classic. The best examples of Early Classic pottery come from outside of Motul de San José itself, with several complete ceramic vessels being recovered during the construction of a modern language school in Trinidad de Nosotros and some fragments of Early Classic pottery being retrieved from a looted chultun at Wakutal.\n\nIn the late 4th century Motul de San José began to refer to Tikal as its overlord.\n\nMotul de San José experienced its second major peak in occupation during the Late Classic period, between AD 600 and AD 830. Most of the major architecture at the site was built during this surge in activity and the city reached its maximum size. Motul de San José became one of the three most important cities around Lake Petén Itzá and was approximately the same size as Tayasal, while it was slightly smaller than Nixtun Ch'ich'. There was renewed growth in the city's satellite sites, Chakokot reached its peak population and most of its residential complexes were built in the Late Classic. Buena Vista experienced only light occupation at this time. Major construction work took place at Akte including the building of the principal platform and its causeway. It also appears that the rulers of Akte erected several stelae. La Trinidad de Nosotros took on its final form and most of its major architecture was built at this time including the Mesoamerican ballcourt, the major residential complexes, four plazas and the port facilities.\n\nIn the 8th century AD the city had important relationships with Maya cities to the southwest, especially in the Petexbatún region, and on the Pasión and Usumacinta rivers, including Seibal (on the Pasión), Altar de Sacrificios (near where the Pasión becomes the Usumacinta), and Dos Pilas, Aguateca, Tamarindito, Arroyo de Piedra and Cueva de Sangre (all five in the Petexbatún region). It is possible that the widespread distribution of Ik-style ceramics in elite tombs at sites in the Petexbatún region may be linked to the military defeat of Motul de San José by Dos Pilas, with these high quality ceramics forming a part of the tribute payment made to the Petexbatún kingdom. After its defeat at the hands of the Petexbatún kingdom, Motul de San José no longer erected sculpted stelae but the history of the site continued to be recorded to a certain extent in texts on Ik-style ceramics.\n\nIn the Late Classic period Motul de San José was located between two mutually hostile powers, the great city of Tikal to the north and the breakaway kingdom of Petexbatún to the southwest, which had become a vassal of Tikal's implacable enemy Calakmul. In Mesoamerica, such border states as Motul de San José became centres of political activity as they tried to manipulate the shifting political fortunes of their neighbours to their own advantage. This seems to be the case at Motul de San José with its rich ceramic tradition being a testament to the politically motivated banqueting that took place in the city. In the 8th century, although Motul de San José was the capital of the Ik polity, the aristocracy of its satellite sites wielded great power and were able to challenge their own position within the political hierarchy of the state while remaining subordinate to the ruling lord of the capital city.\n\nDuring the 7th century AD, Motul de San José is recorded in hieroglyphic inscriptions as being a vassal of Calakmul. By the early 8th century the city had switched its allegiance to Jasaw Chan K'awiil I, king of Tikal, then falling under the power of Petexbatún, itself a vassal of Calakmul, in the middle of the 8th century, before once again switching its allegiance to Tikal. In 711, Jasaw Chan K'awiil I, Lord of Tikal, was recorded as overlord of Motul, perhaps reflecting Tikal's traditional overlordship of the city. In spite of these shifting alliances, Motul de San José acted with a degree of independence and was a powerful kingdom in the 8th century AD, with its ruler using the \"kaloomte\" title given to high kings. The city's rulers became very successful on the political scene in the wider Maya region, with the use of politically motivated feasting, war, economics and political marriages.\n\nThere is a glyphic record that sometime before 731 a lord of Motul was captured by a lord (Ruler B) of Machaquilá. In 740, Machaquila attacked Motul de San José. Hieroglyphic Stairway 3 at Dos Pilas records that in 745 a lord of Motul was captured by K'awiil Chan K'inich of Dos Pilas. In the middle of the 8th century AD, Motul de San José was closely allied with the important city of Yaxchilan on the Usumacinta River, as demonstrated by the fact that the king of Yaxchilan Yaxun B'alam IV (\"Bird Jaguar IV\") who ruled from 752 to 768, took two wives from Motul de San José. They are named in inscriptions at Yaxchilan as Lady Wak Tuun and Lady Wak Jalam Chan Ajaw. Lady Wak Jalam Chan Ajaw is shown preparing her husband for a battle that took place in 755 on Yaxchilan Lintel 41, now in the British Museum in London. In fact, the alliance with Yaxchilan may date further back to the early 8th century since Yaxchilan Lintel 25 (dedicated in AD 723) used the so-called X-ray style of imagery that is closely associated with the Motul de San José polity. However, relations with Yaxchilan were not always peaceful and Hieroglyphic Stairway 5 at Yaxchilan records that Itzamnaaj B'alam III of Yaxchilan defeated the lord of Motul some time in the latter part of the 8th century.\n\nAll dates A.D.\n\nAn Ik-style vessel possesses a hieroglyphic text declaring that it was the property of Chuy-ti Chan, the son of Sak Muwaan, divine lord of Motul de San Jose who ruled between AD 700 and 726. Chuy-ti Chan is described as an artist and ballplayer and appears to have been appointed as an ambassador to the site known as Maan.\n\nTwo rulers feature prominently on Ik-style ceramics, they are named as Yajawte' K'inich and Lamaw Ek'. Lamaw Ek' appears to have ruled directly after Yajawte' K'inich but was not his son, on one vessel his father is given the title \"k'uhul Ik'nal\", a \"divine noble of Motul de San José\" but not the king (whose title is \"k'uhul ajaw\" or \"divine lord\"). Each of these two rulers had his own dedicated master painter. The artist of Yajawte' K'inich is named on the ceramics as T'uubal Ajaw, Lord of T'uubal. This latter site, T'uubal, is thought to be located in Petén somewhere between Tikal and Naranjo. Yajawte' K'inich is depicted on one Ik-style vessel wearing a mask and dancing, he is also depicted on Stelae 2 and 6 in the site core. Yajawte' K'inich is recorded on one vessel as possibly having died in AD 755.\n\nThe name of the painter who produced the ceramic vessels for Lamaw Ek' is only partially deciphered, as well as painting the vessel that possibly records the death of Yajawte' K'inich, he also painted a vessel recording the death of Lamaw Ek' as having taken place in AD 779.\n\nMotul de San José underwent a major decline in population at the end of the Classic Period, between AD 830 and AD 1000, and construction also suffered. Terminal Classic ceramics are common but limited to the major centres of Motul de San José itself and its principal satellite La Trinidad de Nosotros. Although it declined, construction did not halt. Occupation at Group D in the site core continued while Late Classic structures at La Trinidad de Nosotros were modified in the Terminal Classic. There is little evidence for Terminal Classic occupation at the smaller satellite sites.\n\nAn inscription dating to AD 830 mentions the last known ruler of Machaquilá, which may be evidence of a long-standing relationship between the two sites. If this is the case, then Machaquilá appears to have been the dominant city out of the two. Seibal Stela 10, dating to roughly 849 AD, has an inscription naming Kan Ek' as ruler of Motul de San José, which is recorded as being one of the four paramount polities in the mid-9th century (ca. 849), along with Calakmul, Tikal and Seibal itself.\n\nIt has been suggested that Itza Maya from Motul de San José began the northward migration of Maya peoples to the Yucatán Peninsula at the end of the Classic Period. Classic period stelae at the site refer to the \"King of the Itzá\", demonstrating that the Itza were already in the Petén region at this time. The nearby village of San José, on the shore of Lake Petén Itzá, is one of the last Itzá communities in Petén.\n\nThe full extent of occupation and activity in the Motul de San José area is not well understood for the Postclassic Period. It is known that there was a moderate occupation of the area during the Early Postclassic period, between AD 1000 and AD 1250. Early Postclassic construction and ceramics have been identified at Motul de San José and all of its satellite sites, but construction was small scale and distribution of pottery was limited. La Trinidad de Nosotros was apparently a small village at this time and has produced some of the best examples of Early Postclassic ceramics.\n\nThere is little evidence of occupation in the Motul de San José area during the Late Postclassic, from AD 1250 to AD 1697. It is possible that La Trinidad de Nosotros was Xililchi, a settlement visited by conquistador Martín de Ursúa after the fall of the Itza capital Noj Petén to the Spanish in 1697, but no Late Postclassic remains have yet been identified by archaeologists.\n\nIt is likely that the satellite site of Akte was the ruin that Spanish friar Andrés de Avendaño referred to as \"Tanxulukmul\" in early 1695. Teoberto Maler visited Motul de San José in May 1895, and described one of the stelae in his report \"Explorations in the Department of Peten, Guatemala\", published by the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology of Harvard University in 1910. Ian Graham and Arlen Chase have separately mapped portions of the site core.\n\nBefore the establishment of the Motul Ecological Park, the site was used for agriculture, specifically the cultivation of maize. The site has been damaged several times by wildfires caused by uncontrolled stubble burning in 1986, 1987 and again in 1998. This last fire badly damaged the stelae in the site core.\n\nIn 1998, the mayor of San José oversaw the improvement of the road to Motul de San José, which involved surfacing the road with gravel and opened the archaeological site to easier access, resulting in increased tourism at the site.\n\nThe Proyecto Arqueológico Motul de San José (Motul de San José Archaeological Project) has been investigating Motul de San José and its satellites from 1998 to 2008, under the direction of Antonia Foias of Williams College and Kitty Emery of the Florida Museum of Natural History. The core of the satellite site of Akte was mapped in 2002 and Trinidad de Nosotros was investigated by the project in 2003.\n\nAround 230 structures have been mapped in an area covering , however, the total area occupied by the city was probably much greater than this. The total size of Motul de San José is estimated at , with only about a third of this having been mapped. The ceremonial centre of the city covers an area of , an area which encompasses more than 144 structures including a sizeable palace, 6 stelae, 33 plazas of widely differing sizes, and various temples and elite residential areas. Further residential areas of the city cover an additional , which includes both elite and commoner residences, with outlying settlements located for several kilometers to the north and east, with one residential group associated with agricultural terraces being situated 2 km to the north of the site. In total, 33 plaza groups have been mapped at Motul de San José.\n\nBy 2003, around 1,800 fragments of figurines had been excavated from the site, its periphery and its satellites, with 239 of these being either heads or complete figurines.\n\nThe site can be generally divided into three broad areas, the site core, a North Zone and an East Zone. The North Zone is separated from the site core by a wide depression containing clay soil that may have served as a reservoir for the city. Several quarries have been identified on the northern and southern edges of this depression.\n\nThe major architecture can be divided into five groups, labelled A to E. Each of these groups has at least one pyramid and various palace type structures. The major residential complexes of the site are found in Groups A, B and D, not including the royal palace in Group C. The major architectural groups are divided by lower lying areas that may have been used for intensive agriculture. The urban area of the site extends for around the site core, with this area having been continuously occupied with a full range of structures from elite down to commoner in status.\n\nTwo distinct architectural styles date to the last period of the site's occupation in the Late Classic. One uses well-carved stone blocks for construction and is possibly earlier than the second style, which is believed to date to the Terminal Classic and uses thin, flat stones.\n\nGroup A is the largest group west of the site core. The group includes a tall pyramid, severely damaged by looters' pits, with one in the summit and one each on the north, east, south and west sides. IDAEH has since refilled all five pits. Six large rectangular palace-type structures are situated to the west of this pyramid, measuring up to high. A plaza is formed in Group A by the pyramid on the east side and a palace on the west side, accessed from the plaza via a stairway. Southeast of the palace is another plaza surrounded on three sides by palace-type structures.\n\nGroup B includes a high pyramid located about south of a palace complex laid out around two small plazas. The main complex in Group B closely resembles a complex at Dos Pilas in the Petexbatún region. The pyramid has been looted, with the looters' pits having been refilled by IDAEH. The highest structure in the palace complex measures high and is on the south side of the west plaza, its stairways stylistically resemble stairways from the Petexbatún. The palace complex has been looted, with one of the smaller structures around the east plaza having been completely destroyed.\n\nA low wall runs north for from the northeast corner of the east plaza, it measures between high and wide. The wall ends in a platform supporting several structures, it may have divided different parts of the site or marked the edge of an avenue.\n\nTo the north of Group B are several smaller groups of structures. They consist of residential complexes laid out around small plazas and their occupation was limited purely to the Late Classic period. Stela 2 is situated on a low platform to the west of the main pyramid.\n\nGroup C is the principal group at Motul de San José. It includes the Main Plaza, which is surrounded by pyramids and palaces. The tallest pyramid is high. The three largest pyramids in Group C belong to the architectural style possibly dating to the Terminal Classic, being built of thin, flat stones. Excavations have revealed that Group C was occupied from around 300 BC, in the Late Preclassic.\n\nThe Main Plaza in Group C measures approximately and is bordered by the Acropolis on the north and west sides, twin pyramids on the east side and the South Pyramid on the south side. It is the largest plaza at Motul de San José, encompassing an area greater than . There are five stelae in the plaza commemorating Classic Period rulers, they have all been badly damaged by bushfires. On the west side of the plaza is a lower pyramid, measuring high, that has been damaged by looters. A badly eroded stela was found close to this pyramid, another stela was erected in front of the South Pyramid. All three of the principal pyramids in Group C still support the remains of their summit shrines, possibly even with parts of their roofs and roof combs. The construction of these remaining structures consists of the thin, flat stones associated with the Terminal Classic occupation of the site.\nThe Twin Temples were both built on the same platform on the east side of the Main Plaza and have heights of and , three stelae (Stelae 3, 4 and 5) were erected in front of them in a north-south line. The south pyramid of the two has been somewhat damaged by looters. Both of these pyramids probably originally supported roof combs and were accessed by twin stairways rising from the plaza to the west.\n\nThe Acropolis is a palace complex laid out around six small plazas, which it completely encloses, and forms the north side of the Main Plaza. It is a massive architectural complex covering an area of more than and is likely to have been the palace of the royal family. Two structures lying immediately to the south of the central plaza within the complex itself measure as high as and respectively. Investigations at the northern extreme of the Acropolis uncovered a piece of a plate dated to the Terminal Classic period. Excavations in the northwestern portion of the Acropolis have revealed a series of stucco floors and large amounts of ceramic remains, as well as fragments of worked stone, obsidian, bone and shell. Among the artefacts recovered were three polychrome vessels, two tripod vessels, a flute and a drum. Ceramic remains dated to the Late Classic have been found in all levels of the Acropolis. One of the ceramic vessels excavated from the acropolis was in a style associated with Tikal. Investigations behind the west structure of the northwest plaza in the Acropolis recovered fill that included ceramic fragments dating as far back as the Late Preclassic and Early Classic.\n\nThe South Pyramid is the highest structure at the site, measuring tall. As its name suggests, it forms the south side of the Main Plaza. Excavations on the north (plaza) side of this temple uncovered Stela 6.\n\nGroup D is an elaborate residential complex located to the north of the twin pyramids in Group C and northeast of the Acropolis, like the other groups it consists of various structures laid out around a plaza. The group includes two palaces, including one on the west side of the plaza that has been badly damaged by looters. A pyramid is situated on the east side of the Group D plaza. A looters' trench that was cut into the pyramid revealed earlier levels of construction consisting of well made stone blocks, archaeological investigation of the looters' tunnel revealed that the looters had probably plundered a high-ranking noble, or royal, tomb. Items recovered from the looted tomb included polychrome ceramic fragments, 10 pieces of jade beads, 77 pieces of shell beads, 20 jade mosaic fragments, 145 shell mosaic fragments, 98 pyrite mosaic fragments, a shell necklace and a stingray spine. The human bones in the tomb had been painted red. The presence of the royal tomb suggests either that the palaces in Group D were royal residences or those of the priesthood dedicated to the rituals of the dead king.\n\nThe occupation of Group D dates as far back as the Middle Preclassic period. Group D was occupied as late as the Terminal Classic, when a termination ritual was apparently performed, after which the northern building of the group was abandoned. The ritual included scattering a large amount of rubbish in front of the south entrance to the building and then possibly burning the building itself. The rubbish is presumed to have come from the area of Group D itself and included some items associated with weaving and the manufacture of paper.\n\nThe south structure in Group D had a patio with two circular columns, an architectural style that is characteristic of the Terminal Classic period.\n\nGroup E is the second largest group at Motul de San José, after Group C. It is situated to the west of Groups C and D. The group includes two pyramids, measuring and high, both have been looted and the taller pyramid being located north of the smaller pyramid. Residential groups lie to the south and east of the pyramids, they are made up of three to four rectangular structures laid out around small central plazas, the structures are all less than high.\n\nTwo palaces investigated in Group E are architecturally quite different from the palaces in Groups C and D. A notable feature is that their doors possess projecting corners. The western structure has a vaulted room with a central bench and also a cross-shaped exterior bench, the walls of the structure still stand high. The north structure's walls stand high and its western room had been divided in two by the placement of vertical stone slabs. This north structure did not possess any interior benches. It may be that the different architectural styles of Group E and the other main groups at Motul de San José result from their association with different lineages, each with its own style.\n\nGroup E is distinguished by a long avenue, known as the North South Avenue, with residential groups on the east side. On the west side the avenue is bordered by a high wall. The northern end of the avenue terminates at a small temple while the south ends at Plaza B.\n\nSix stelae are known from Motul de San José, all were found in Group C, with five of them being located in the Main Plaza.\n\nStela 1, dating to the 8th century AD, contains the first known mention anywhere of the phrase \"Itza Chul Ahau\" (\"Divine Lord of the Itza\"). It is situated on the west side of the Main Plaza in Group C and has the most well preserved hieroglyphic text at the site. The text describes the accession to the throne of a local lord under the supervision of Jasaw Chan K'awiil I of Tikal. Stela 1 also provides the best evidence yet found identifying Motul de San José as the Late Classic \"Ik\" polity.\n\nStela 2 is situated some distance to the west of the Main Plaza in Group C, in Plaza B, in front of a small temple. This stela was photographed by Teoberto Maler in the first decade of the 20th century. The stela depicts king Yajawte' K'inich, it shows dancing figures on its east face. On its west face it depicts a figure sculpted using the so-called X-ray style found on Ik-style ceramics, which depicts the face in profile wearing a mask that has been cut away to show the face underneath.\n\nStela 3 is located on the east side of the Main Plaza in Group C, north of Stela 4.\nStela 4 is situated on the east side of the Main Plaza in Group C, near the Twin Temples, just south of Stela 3 and north of Stela 5. The stela shows king Yajawte' K'inich performing a dance, with one foot raised.\n\nStela 5 is also located on the east side of the Main Plaza, just south of Stela 4.\n\nStela 6 is located on the south side of the Main Plaza in Group C, just north of the South Pyramid. It was discovered in 1988 and had been broken into many pieces, although the base of the stela was still \"in situ\". Two other large fragments were lying on the surface and more than 100 smaller fragments were collected. The stela appears to have shattered when it fell, some time after Motul de San José had been abandoned. The north and south faces of the stela bore sculpted designs, the remaining butt of the stela has the left foot of a human figure worked in profile on the south side. The sculpture on the north side has been pieced together in part and appears to have shown the figure of a ruler of the city dressed in rich clothing and regalia. The figure was positioned performing a dance, with one foot half lifted off the ground. In his right hand the ruler held a God K sceptre. The prelimanry reconstruction of the sculpture indicates that the figure of the king measured between high. Stela 6 is very similar to Stela 1 from Dos Pilas with both depicting the ruler in an identical position. The stela appears to have been a relatively late addition to the plaza and dates to the Late Postclassic period.\n\nThere are a number of smaller satellite sites located around Motul de San José:\n\nAkte is situated northwest of Motul de San José and is known for its sculptured monuments. The centre of Akte covers an area of and includes 32 structures on a high artificially landscaped hill, with a number of other structures scattered through the surrounding area. The hill supporting the site core overlooks the rivers Akte and Kantetul. The main periods of occupation date to the Late Preclassic and Late Classic with further occupation in the Terminal Classic and Early Postclassic. The overall area of Akte is probably larger than that of Trinidad de Nosotros, covering a area, but this includes less structures than at Trinidad, with small residential groups widely scattered on hilltops around the site core.\n\nThe main residential complex at Akte rests upon a platform and contains three patios, with other residential groups clustered around the east, south and west side of the platform's base. A small temple is located on the east side of the north patio. Akte may have served as a rural administrative centre or perhaps as a royal estate of the Motul de San José elite.\n\nSeven sculpted monuments have been found at Akte, an unusual number for such a small site. If these monuments were originally erected at Akte, then this may mean that the site was actually outside of the Motul de San José polity. Archaeological investigations of the stelae carried out in 2003 were unable to determine if the monuments had been moved to Akte or not.\n\nStela 1 is the best preserved monument at Akte. It is badly eroded and can be dated by a damaged Long Count date inscribed on the back, which dates it to the end of the 7th century or the beginning of the 8th. The front of the stela bears the representation of a standing \"divine lord\" with attributes typical of the Late Classic.\n\nStela 2 is badly damaged, being broken into a number of fragments.\n\nStela 3 had a cache of 44 pieces of obsidian buried near its base.\n\nBuena Vista lies to the southwest of the site core and from the northwest shore of Lake Petén Itzá. 13 structures have been mapped, situated around a small plaza, with a small temple on the east side. The site is located on a hilltop and was once much larger but has been partially covered by the modern development of Nuevo San José. Structures 4 and 8 have been investigated, revealing that Buena Vista was probably occupied from the Middle Preclassic through to the Late Classic, with a much reduced population in the Early Postclassic. The site was surveyed in 2000 and preliminary excavations took place in 2001. The main pyramids of Motul de San José are visible from Buena Vista, as is a large part of the lake. Buena Vista has fairly good soil and the surviving portions of the site are currently used for milpa cultivation.\n\nThe earliest ceramic evidence excavated at Buena Vista dates to the very end of the Early Preclassic period, indicating that the site was initially settled at the transition between the Early and Middle Preclassic periods. The long occupational history of Buena Vista may be linked to its proximity to chert-rich hills. Excavations have revealed evidence of chert workshops dedicated to the production of tools, together with dumps of waste flakes.\n\nBuena Vista features an early architectural style that differs from that at Motul de San José, consisting of platforms built from unworked stone, with wide front stairways and probably without superstructures. They were built in the Middle to Late Preclassic periods and then reused in the Late Classic. The differences in style between Buena Vista and Motul probably results from differing epochs of construction.\n\nGroup A is arranged around the main plaza. Group B is located a little to the southeast, and contains structures 11 to 14.\n\nStructure 1 is the East Pyramid, it is located on the hillside a short distance from the rest of the mounds. It was a high Late Classic funerary structure containing a looted tomb. From the summit of this temple both Lake Petén Itzá and the Twin Temples of Group C at Motul de San José are visible.\n\nStructure 4 is the North Structure. It dates to the Late Classic but overlies construction dating to the Middle Preclassic. A stairway ascended the front of the building, under which were found the remains of Late Classic polychrome ceramics, perhaps belonging to a pre-construction ritual offering. The stucco floors on top of the mound supported asymmetric walls that perhaps date to the Postclassic Period, being associated with a mix of Late Classic and Postclassic pottery.\n\nStructures 7, 8 and 9 were long, low rectangular platforms. They measure long by wide and high. They had perishable roofs and date to the Late Classic, although Structures 7 and 8 may overlie Middle Preclassic remains.\n\nChachaklum (also spelt Chächäklu'um) is situated east of the site core and may also have formed a part of the Motul de San José polity. It is a large site covering over , an area that includes over 141 structures. Chachaklum includes a small ceremonial centre where a possible E-Group has been identified. The site is located in an area of savanna with poor soils considered unsuitable for the growing of maize, somewhat at odds with the settlement density of the site. The contrast between the settlement density and poor soils has highlighted the need for further research into Maya agriculture in a savanna environment. Chachaklum was a relatively large site of secondary rank within the Motul de San José polity.\n\nChachaklum's principal phase of occupation appears to date to the Terminal Classic period, during the 10th and 11th centuries AD. However, the site possesses massive basal platforms and these, together with the presence of the E-Group, suggests a longer occupational period than was immediately evident from the first excavations of the site. Further investigations have revealed a long occupational history beginning in the Late Preclassic period and continuing right through to the Late Classic.\n\nChak Maman Tok' is a very small site located southwest of Motul de San José and about from Buena Vista. The site includes a small number of mounds spread along the hillside overlooking Lake Petén Itzá. The site was investigated by archaeologists in 2005 and 2006. Although the site is very small, it seems to have been an important centre for the production of high-quality chert tools, and one of the major manufacturers of chert tools in the Petén lowlands with considerable economic importance within the Motul de San José polity.\n\nThe site has been severely damaged by modern construction with the chert deposits being reused as construction material.\n\nChakokot is located to the east of the Main Plaza. It occupies an area of and consists of 59 structures widely dispersed around a small plaza upon the flat summit of a high hill. Principal occupation dates from the Late Preclassic and Late Classic periods. The soils at Chakokot are considered good for agriculture and maize was grown within the site itself. The area between Chakokot and Motul de San José is occupied by a \"bajo\", or low-lying seasonal swamp.\n\nThe Plaza at Chakokot is small and covers an area of about . On the north and east sides it is bordered by residential groups, a square platform is to the south and on the west by two low parallel structures measuring just high.\n\nThe largest structure at Chakokot is a tall temple to the east of a large residential area bordering the Plaza on the east side.\n\nMost of the residential areas at Chakokot possess one or more bottle-shaped underground storage chambers, known as \"chultunob\", with 14 having been found as of 2001. Because of the thick vegetation at the site, investigators consider that there are probably more to be found. These \"chultunob\" were closed with disc-shaped stone lids, many of which were found either still in place or close to the aperture of the \"chultun\" to which it belonged. The stone lids were without perforations so it is supposed that the chambers were used to store dry goods rather than water.\n\nKantetul is located north of the site core.\n\nOx Ool is located in the hill country a few kilometers south of Motul de San José, and has fertile soil for agriculture.\n\nTikalito is located in the hills a few kilometers north-northwest of Motul de San José, and possesses rich soils for agriculture.\n\nLa Trinidad is known as \"Sik'u' \" in the Itza language. It is located southeast of Motul de San José on the northern shore of Lake Petén Itzá. The site is located at the closest point to Motul on the lake shore and it may have served as a Maya port. The site has more than 115 structures located in an area of , and the site may actually cover and contain about 150 structures. The site had a long occupational history stretching right through from the Middle Preclassic to the Early Postclassic, with two phases of greater activity in the Early Classic around AD 350 and in the Late Classic from AD 650–830. The Terminal Classic occupation was largely limited to the lake shore but was fairly dense. The monumental architecture, port and the ballcourt all identify La Trinidad de Nosotros as an important secondary centre within the Motul de San José polity. Additionally, the site was situated close to a source of chert and probably manufactured chert tools.\n\nLa Trinidad de Nosotros has been tentatively identified as Xililchi, a settlement visited by conquistador Martín de Ursúa after Spanish Conquest of the Itza capital Noj Petén in 1697, but no Late Postclassic remains have yet been securely identified.\n\nThe site is divided into two areas. The site core is located on a hill above the lake and with a good view across it. The second area is spread along the lake shore and the hillside leading to the site core. The site core has at least 80 structures arranged around five plazas. The majority of the structures are residential in nature but La Trinidad has an unusual amount of ceremonial architecture for such a small site. La Trinidad seems to have been an important port for the import and export of goods to and from Motul de San José.\n\nGroup C is the main residential complex of the site, it has a small shrine at the eastern end. La Trinidad de Nosotros has five main plazas within its site core, labelled I through to V. All of them were resurfaced multiple times between the Late Preclassic and Late Classic. The combined surface areas of the five plazas cover over , with Plaza V making up about half of this, making it slightly smaller than the main plaza at Motul de San José itself.\n\nStructure A-1 is the main temple, it is a high radial pyramid.\n\nStructure C-1 is an elite residence.\n\nStructure E-1 may originally have been a circular building.\n\nStructure G-1 is a sub-elite residence.\nThe ballcourt is located in Group F. It is in the form of a T-shape, with long sides, a closed northern end zone and a small temple adjoining the eastern side. The last phase of construction dates to the Late Classic. The ballcourt is similar in design to the ballcourt on the Main Plaza of Dos Pilas in the Petexbatún region. No ballcourt has been identified at the Motul de San José site itself, making the presence of one here of especial interest. Rich deposits were found associated with the ballcourt, including 21,000 potsherds, 239 pieces of obsidian, 155 fragments of ceramic figurines and 84 stone tools.\n\nGroup O is a small residential group to the west of Plaza V.\n\nVarious structures have been identified in the area of the port, including retaining walls, a possible breakwater and a quay. The port appears to have been partially enclosed by an artificial peninsula.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34182196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34182196", "title": "Ottmar Ette", "text": "Ottmar Ette\n\nOttmar Ette (born 14 December 1956 in Zell am Harmersbach, Black Forest, Germany) is Professor of Romance languages and Comparative literature at the University of Potsdam.\n\nIn 1990, Ottmar Ette completed his dissertation at Freiburg University on the Spanish-American modernist and Cuban national icon José Martí. In 1995, his habilitation on French post-modern theorist Roland Barthes was accepted at Eichstätt University. In 2001, Ette received the \"Hugo Friedrich und Erich Köhler\"-award for his work on Roland Barthes from Freiburg University. Twice, he has been granted fellowships in advanced-study institutions. He has lectured and taught in a number of Latin-American and European countries, as well as in the USA. He has been a full professor Romance literature and comparative literature in Potsdam since 1995. To Ottmar Ette, Romance philology is a wide-ranging and inclusive academic field of inquiry which connects a number of disciplines and languages as it tells us about literary knowledge of human life.\n\nSince 2013, Ottmar Ette is member of the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and Humanities. In 2014, he was elected as honorary member of the Modern Language Association of America. In 2014, Ottmar Ette received the Mexican Research Award \"Escuela Nacional de Altos Estudios\" from the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México.\n\nOttmar Ette is Chevalier in the Ordre des Palmes Académiques (France) since 2012. He has been a regular member of the Academia Europaea since 2010. Also in 2010, he was a fellow at the Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies. This was after having already received a fellowship at the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin Institute for Advanced Study in 2004/2005. He has been involved in establishing a number of state-funded \"Graduiertenkolleg\"-graduate schools at German universities. He is a co-founder of a research-network on Latin-America in the wider Berlin area, ForLaBB (Forschungsverbund Lateinamerika Berlin-Brandenburg).\n\nHe is founder and co-editor of the electronic journal HiN - Alexander von Humboldt im Netz () and an online platform dedicated to von Humboldt avhumboldt.de - Humboldt Informationen online. Ette is also co-editor of the journal Iberoamericana (Madrid - Frankfurt am Main). Since 2009, he has also been co-editor of the electronic journal Istmo (Revista virtual de estudios literarios y culturales centroamericanos, ). \n\nThe research and teaching of Ottmar Ette focus on: Alexander von Humboldt, literary studies as a science of life, living-together or \"conviviality\", and TransArea Studies: poetics of movement and Francophone and Hispanophone literatures inside and outside Europe. \n\nOttmar Ette directs the Research Project on \"Alexander von Humboldt's American Travel Diaries: Genealogy, Chronology, and Epistemology\" (2014-2017) and, since 2015, an eighteen-year project on \"Travelling Humboldt - Science on the Move\" of the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and Humanities (http://www.bbaw.de/en/research/avh-r).\n\nOttmar Ette's programmatic essay \"Literaturwissenschaft als Lebenswissenschaft - Eine Programmschrift im Jahr der Geisteswissenschaften\" sparked wide-ranging reactions and discussion in Germany. Among many other publications, the theme reappeared in the national weekly paper Die Zeit. The basic thrust of Ette's argument is to reconceptualize literary studies in terms of a science of life or \"life science\": \"Lebenswissenschaft\". Literature, Ette claims, is an essential repository of human knowledge on life, especially with respect to ethically relevant experiences such as living-together or \"conviviality\", migration and belonging, or survival in times of existential danger. The term \"Lebenswissenschaft\" is coined to oppose and call into question the increasing dominance of the biological or medical \"life sciences\", that have begun to monopolize and reduce concept and semantics of human life. Ette recently presented his argument in English in the Modern Language Association's PMLA.\n\nOttmar Ette has also received much attention for his work on and editions of the writings of Alexander von Humboldt. He is considered a leading specialist on Humboldt's original scientific approach and extremely prolific work. Whereas Alexander von Humboldt has always been a well-known figure in the Americas, German reception had been heavily focused on the philological work of his older brother, Wilhelm von Humboldt. Ette's new editions of Alexander's colourful reports from his voyages have led to a more evenly balanced reception of the work of the two polymaths Alexander and Wilhelm von Humboldt. As early as 1987, Ette's work on Alexander von Humboldt earned him the \"Heinz-Maier-Leibnitz\" Award from the German Ministry of Culture and the German Research Association DFG. In the English-speaking world, Ottmar Ette and Vera M. Kutzinski (Vanderbildt University) recently published two critical editions of Humboldt's works: in 2011, the \"Political Essay on the Island of Cuba; in 2012, the \"Views of the Cordilleras and Monuments of the Indigenous Peoples of the Americas\", both titles published with the University of Chicago Press.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5947207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5947207", "title": "Philippe de Montebello", "text": "Philippe de Montebello\n\nPhilippe de Montebello (born May 16, 1936 in Paris) is a museum director. He served from 1977 to 2008 as the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. On his retirement, he was both the longest-serving director in the institution's history, and the third longest-serving director of any major art museum in the world (first is Irina Antonova, who was the Director of the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow for 52 years, from 1961 to 2013, making her the oldest and the longest serving director of a major art museum in the world. Second is Knud W. Jensen, who served as the director of Denmark's Louisiana Museum of Modern Art north of Copenhagen for 35 years, from 1958 to 1993). From January 2009, Montebello took up a post as the first Fiske Kimball Professor in the History and Culture of Museums at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.\n\nBorn to a French aristocratic family, de Montebello immigrated to the United States of America in the 1950s, and became a naturalized citizen of the US in 1955. He was educated in New York City at the Lycée Français de New York, graduated from Harvard University with a degree in art history, and earned an MA from New York University, after which he embarked on a career in Fine Arts. He became the Director of the Metropolitan Museum in 1977 and has become widely known as the public face of the museum.\n\nHe announced his retirement on 8 January 2008, stating that he intended to step down by the end of 2008 after more than 31 years at his post.\n\nBorn Guy Philippe Henri Lannes de Montebello in Paris in 1936 to a family descended from the Napoleonic aristocracy, de Montebello was the second of four sons. His father, Baron André Roger Lannes de Montebello (Biarritz, July 6, 1908 - New York City, December 2, 1986), was a portrait painter, art critic, and a member of the French Resistance during World War II. His mother, Germaine Wiener de Croisset (born in Paris, October 26, 1913 and married in Paris, November 30, 1933), was a descendant of the Marquis de Sade, a daughter of the playwright Francis de Croisset, and a half-sister of the arts patron Marie-Laure de Noailles. One of de Montebello's great-great-great-grandfathers was Jean Lannes, Duke of Montebello and Marshal of France.\n\nBoth parents were involved in a project to develop a form of three-dimensional photography, and it was in search of venture capital for this enterprise that the family came to New York in 1951. Whereas his brothers would all eventually return to France to take up jobs in banking, Philippe stayed in the United States and became an American citizen in 1955.\n\nDe Montebello was educated at the Lycée Français in New York, where he received his \"baccalauréat\" in 1954. He then went on to study art history at Harvard University, graduating magna cum laude, before continuing his studies at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts under Charles Sterling, an expert in French Renaissance art.\n\nIn 1963, he began work for the Met as a curatorial assistant in the Department of European Paintings, rising to full curator. He then spent four-and-a-half-years (1969–1974) as Director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, Texas, returning to the Met as vice director for curatorial and educational affairs. He became director in 1977.\n\nOn June 24, 1961 in New York, he married Edith Myles (born in New York, October 20, 1939), who is the financial-aid director of the Trinity School in New York City. They have three children: Count Marc André Marie (born in New York, October 11, 1964), married civilly at Choiseul and religiously at Marnes La Coquette, November 28, 1986 and divorced Laure Marie Dauphine de Sabran-Pontèves (born at Neuilly, February 26, 1966), by whom he had a son Alexandre (born in New York, May 9, 1987); Laure (born in New York City, May 5, 1968) married to Robert Bernstein, M.D., with two children, Claire and Maximilian (Max); and Charles (born in Houston, Texas, January 16, 1971), married to Raasa Leela Shields (born in Richmond, Virginia) with two children, Kivlighan Finch and Everest Leo Myles.\n\nUnder his directorship the Metropolitan Museum has nearly doubled in size to two million square feet. Notable changes have included the opening of the Carroll and Milton Petrie European Sculpture Court in 1990, new galleries for Greek & Roman art, the recently opened Ruth and Harold D. Uris Center for Education, the remodeled and reinstalled galleries for Oceanic and Native North American art, and expanded galleries for Chinese, Cypriot, Ancient Near Eastern, and Korean art. In 2007, the Metropolitan reopened its expanded galleries for 19th- and early 20th-century European paintings and decorative arts, formerly Modernist, in a historicizing Beaux-Arts style, and a new high-ceilinged gallery to show off Giovanni Battista Tiepolo's monumental paintings to their best advantage. Criticism of de Montebello has focused on his alleged conservatism regarding modern and contemporary art: in a 1999 op-ed piece in the \"New York Times\" he lauded the city's mayor Rudy Giuliani for rubbishing Chris Ofili's infamous painting \"Holy Virgin Mary\", which used elephant dung as one of its materials. In the early years of his tenure, the Department of Modern Art was said to lag behind the museum's other departments in its spending power. But in recent years, the Museum has purchased iconic works by Jasper Johns, Damien Hirst, and Robert Rauschenberg, and mounted exhibitions by contemporary artists like Johns, Rauschenberg, Tara Donovan, Sean Scully, and Kara Walker.\n\nMr. de Montebello's other major building programs have included the expansion and renovation of period rooms and galleries for the decorative arts, the opening of new permanent exhibition galleries for drawings, prints, and photographs (supplemented in 2007 with the new Joyce and Robert Menschel Hall for Modern Photography), the conservation and installation of the Gubbio Studiolo, the opening of the Antonio Ratti Textile Conservation Center, the opening of the new Mary and Michael Jaharis Gallery for Byzantine art, and the installation of Coptic art in a crypt-like gallery carved out of former storage space beneath the museum's Great Hall staircase. \n\nUnder de Montebello's directorship, the Met acquired many major private collections, notably the Jack and Belle Linsky Collection of European Paintings, sculpture, and decorative arts; the Heinz Berggruen collection of works by Paul Klee; the gift of 10 paintings by Clyfford Still by the artist's widow; the Annenberg Collection of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings; the Florene Schoenborn collection of 20th-century works; the Jacques and Natasha Gelman Collection of modern paintings; the Gilman Paper Company Collection of 19th-century photographs; the Muriel Kallis Steinberg Newman Collection of Abstract Expressionist and other modern works; and most recently, the Diane Arbus archive.\n\nDe Montebello also worked to acquire a number of individual masterpieces over the years, including works by Vermeer, Rubens, Guercino, and Nikolaus Gerhaert von Leyden. Among the most celebrated of these acquisitions have been the 11th-century gilt-bronze Cambodian deified king known as the \"Golden Boy\" in 1988; Vincent Van Gogh's \"Wheat Field with Cypresses\" in 1993, Jasper Johns' \"White Flag\" in 1998, and in 2004 the Madonna and Child by the Renaissance master Duccio di Buoninsegna.\n\nThroughout this period, the Met under de Montebello's leadership mounted some 30 special exhibitions annually, involving not only all the museum's 17 curatorial departments, but also presenting works of art on loan from public and private collections around the world (current shows listed on the museum's website, metmuseum.org). Many of the shows were accompanied by the publication of major catalogues. Under de Montebello, the Met has become the leading art book publisher in the U.S., issuing some 25-30 illustrated volumes each year, most carrying an introduction by the director.\n\nLong the \"voice of the Met,\" de Montebello also narrates the Met's audio guides for both exhibitions and the permanent collection. He lectures on museological matters throughout the world, and has also given public readings of French poetry by Baudelaire, Rimbaud and others at the museum.\n\nOn January 8, 2008, he announced his intention to retire by the end of 2008 (). He was succeeded by Thomas Campbell in September 2008.\n\nDe Montebello assisted in the formation of the Association of Art Museum Curators in 2001, and later helped forge its policy on spoliated World War II-era art, advocating transparent research into the ownership history of museum collections, and testifying on Capitol Hill. In August 2006 he successfully negotiated the precedent-setting agreement with the Italian government that ended years of disputes regarding the legal ownership of several works in its Greek and Roman collections. Under the terms of the historic pact, Italy provided long-term loans to the Met in exchange for the return of these works.\n\nDe Montebello is the first professor to teach the history and culture of museums at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts. In addition to being a full-time professor at the IFA, where he discusses topics such as the history of collecting and the progression and modernization of museums, de Montebello also advises NYU on its planned overseas campus and curriculum in Abu Dhabi, scheduled to begin enrolling students in 2010. He began teaching at NYU in January 2009 as well as consulting and lecturing at several museums on the modernization of their collections. In 2012, de Montebello served as the Humanitas Visiting Professor in the History of Art at the University of Cambridge.\n\nDe Montebello also serves as co-host of NYC-ARTS, a weekly program highlighting current New York City exhibitions, cultural institutions and profiling relevant contributors to the arts on Thirteen/WNET.\n\nIn April, 2015 the Hispanic Society of America announced the appointment of Philippe de Montebello to chair the Society's Board of Overseers and spearhead a major effort to roughly double the museum's size by renovating the now-vacant, adjacent, Beaux Arts, former building of the Museum of the American Indian.\n\nMontebello was made a Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur in 1991 (he was promoted to the rank of Officier in 2007). His adopted home country followed suit by awarding him the National Medal of Arts in 2002, the National Humanities Medal in 2010, and the Mayor's Arts Award in 2007. De Montebello was also awarded the Order of Isabel la Catolica, Encomienda de Numero; the Spanish Institute Gold Medal Award; Knight Commander, Pontifical Order of St. Gregory the Great; the 2002 Blerancourt Prize; the 2004 Amigos del Museo del Prado Prize; and in 2007 the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold & Silver Star, from the Government of Japan. In 2017, Montebello received the Edmund Burke Award for Culture and Society, awarded by monthly cultural review The New Criterion. He has received honorary degrees from New York University, Dartmouth College, Lafayette College, Bard College, Iona College, the Savannah College of Art and Design, and his alma mater, Harvard. De Montebello is a recipient of The International Center in New York's Award of Excellence.\n\n"}
{"id": "5669042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5669042", "title": "Pleorama", "text": "Pleorama\n\nThe best-known pleorama was a 19th-century moving panorama entertainment where the viewers sat in a rocking boat while panoramic views on painted canvas rolled past. The word has sometimes been used for other entertainments or innovations.\n\nArchitect Carl Ferdinand Langhans introduced a pleorama in Breslau in 1831 with scenes of the Bay of Naples on both sides of 24 \"voyagers\" sitting in a wooden boat floating in a pool of water. The illusion was enhanced by light and sound effects: the boatman singing, Vesuvius erupting. Writer/artist August Kopisch was involved in designing the hour-long show.\n\nCarl Wilhelm Gropius, who had a diorama exhibit in Berlin, took over management of this pleorama in 1832, and there was also a pleorama of a journey along the river Rhine. \n\nThe Swiss writer Bernard Comment, among others, has pointed out the similarities between Langhans' pleorama and the ambitious mareorama at the 1900 Paris Exhibition.\n\nA similar idea was used for a London \"padorama\" in 1834. Spectators were seated in railway carriages to watch a moving panorama of scenes visible from the Liverpool and Manchester Railway.\n\nIn 1850s Finland the name \"pleorama\" was given to shows which presented historic scenes and panoramic views using glass, but posters for these do not mention anything resembling Langhans' boat concept.\n\nThe name \"pleorama\" was coined from Greek elements. Like other 19th century novelties ending in \"-orama\" - diorama and cyclorama, for instance - the second half of the word has the sense of 'something seen'. The \"pleo-\" part here is understood to come from a Greek word meaning 'float' which applies to Langhans' boat in water idea. \"Pleorama\" is also the 21st century name of an innovative \"floating house\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3129020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3129020", "title": "Prenatal perception", "text": "Prenatal perception\n\nPrenatal perception is the study of the extent of somatosensory and other types of perception during pregnancy. In practical terms, this means the study of fetuses; none of the accepted indicators of perception are present in embryos. \n\nStudies in the field inform the abortion debate, along with certain related pieces of legislation in countries affected by that debate.\n\nNumerous studies have found evidence indicating a fetus's ability to respond to auditory stimuli. Research indicates that fetuses of 33–41 weeks gestational age can not only hear, but also distinguish their mothers' voices from others. See also a UK study on child's \"Hearing and listening in the womb\": and UK material on \"How babies develop hearing\":\n\nThe hypothesis that human fetuses are capable of perceiving pain in the first trimester is not supported by science; the scientific consensus is that a fetus \"is not capable of feeling pain until the third trimester\", which \"begins at about 27 weeks of pregnancy\".\n\nIn March 2010, the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists submitted a report, concluding that \"Current research shows that the sensory structures are not developed or specialized enough to respond to pain in a fetus of less than 24 weeks\", pg. 22. The neural regions and pathways that are responsible for pain experience remain under debate but it is generally accepted that pain from physical trauma requires an intact pathway from the periphery, through the spinal cord, into the thalamus and on to regions of the cerebral cortex including the primary sensory cortex (S1), the insular cortex and the anterior cingulated cortex.3,4 Fetal pain is not possible before these necessary neural pathways and structures (figure 1) have developed. -pg. 3 The report specifically identified the anterior cingulate as the area of the cerebral cortex responsible for pain processing. The anterior cingulate is part of the cerebral cortex, which begins to develop in the fetus at week 26.\n\nA meta-analysis of data from dozens of medical reports and studies that fetuses are unlikely to feel pain until the third trimester of pregnancy. There is a consensus among developmental neurobiologists that the establishment of thalamocortical connections (at weeks 22-34, reliably at 29) is a critical event with regard to fetal perception of pain, as they allow peripheral sensory information to arrive at the cortex.\n\nElectroencephalography indicates that the capacity for functional pain perception in premature infants does not exist before 29 or 30 weeks; a 2005 meta-analysis states that withdrawal reflexes and changes in heart rates and hormone levels in response to invasive procedures are reflexes that do not indicate fetal pain.\n\nSeveral lines of evidence suggest that a fetus does not awaken during its time in the womb. Much of the literature on fetal pain simply extrapolates from findings and research on premature babies. The presence of such chemicals as adenosine, pregnanolone, and prostaglandin-D in both human and animal fetuses, indicate that the fetus is both sedated and anesthetized when in the womb. These chemicals are oxidized with the newborn's first few breaths and washed out of the tissues, allowing consciousness to occur. If the fetus is asleep throughout gestation then the possibility of fetal pain is greatly minimized. Recent studies show that the neuromediators supposed to anesthetise the fetus in the womb can give just a slight sedation, as their levels in some cases overlap those in adults' blood.\n\nDirect fetal analgesia is used in only a minority of prenatal surgeries.\n\nSome caution that unnecessary use of fetal anesthetic may pose potential health risks to the mother. \"In the context of abortion, fetal analgesia would be used solely for beneficence toward the fetus, assuming fetal pain exists. This interest must be considered in concert with maternal safety and fetal effectiveness of any proposed anesthetic or analgesic technique. For instance, general anesthesia increases abortion morbidity and mortality for women and substantially increases the cost of abortion. Although placental transfer of many opioids and sedative-hypnotics has been determined, the maternal dose required for fetal analgesia is unknown, as is the safety for women at such doses.\n\nFetal pain legislation may make abortions harder to obtain, because abortion clinics lack the equipment and expertise to supply fetal anesthesia. Currently, anesthesia is administered directly to fetuses only while they are undergoing surgery.\n\nDoctors for a Woman’s Choice on Abortion pointed out that the majority of surgical abortions in Britain are already performed under general anesthesia, which also affects the fetus. In a letter to the \"British Medical Journal\" in April 1997, they deemed the discussion \"unhelpful to women and to the scientific debate\" despite a report in the \"British Medical Journal\" that \"the theoretical possibility that the fetus may feel pain (albeit much earlier than most embryologists and physiologists consider likely) with the procedure of legal abortion\". Yet if mothers' general anesthesia were enough to anesthetise the fetus, all fetuses would be born sleepy after a cesarean section performed in general anesthesia, which is not the case.\n\nIn 2013 during the 113th Congress, Representative Trent Franks introduced a bill called the \"Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act\" (H.R. 1797). It passed in the House on June 18, 2013 and was received in the U.S. Senate, read twice, and referred to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nIn 2004 during the 108th Congress, Senator Sam Brownback introduced a bill called the \"Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act\" for the stated purpose of \"ensur[ing] that women seeking an abortion are fully informed regarding the pain experienced by their unborn child.\", which was read twice and referred to committee.\n\nSubsequently, 25 states have examined similar legislation related to fetal pain and/or fetal anesthesia, and in 2010 Nebraska banned abortions after 20 weeks on the basis of fetal pain. Eight states – Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Alaska, South Dakota, and Texas – have passed laws which introduced information on fetal pain in their state-issued abortion-counseling literature, which one opponent of these laws, the Guttmacher Institute founded by Planned Parenthood, has called \"generally irrelevant\" and not in line \"with the current medical literature\". Dr. Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania, said laws such as these \"reduce... the process of informed consent to the reading of a fixed script created and mandated by politicians not doctors.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32466769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32466769", "title": "Robert Talbot (scribe)", "text": "Robert Talbot (scribe)\n\nRobert Talbot (died 1558) was a scholar and scribe of Anglo-Saxon. Marginalia in his hand are found in the F manuscript of the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", British Museum Cotton Domitian viii.\n"}
{"id": "534400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=534400", "title": "Semantic memory", "text": "Semantic memory\n\nSemantic memory is one of the two types of declarative or explicit memory (our memory of facts or events that is explicitly stored and retrieved). Semantic memory refers to general world knowledge that we have accumulated throughout our lives. This general knowledge (facts, ideas, meaning and concepts) is intertwined in experience and dependent on culture. Semantic memory is distinct from episodic memory, which is our memory of experiences and specific events that occur during our lives, from which we can recreate at any given point. For instance, semantic memory might contain information about what a cat is, whereas episodic memory might contain a specific memory of petting a particular cat. We can learn about new concepts by applying our knowledge learned from things in the past. The counterpart to declarative or explicit memory is nondeclarative memory or implicit memory.\n\nThe idea of semantic memory was first introduced following a conference in 1972 between Endel Tulving, of the University of Toronto, and W. Donaldson on the role of organization in human memory. Tulving constructed a proposal to distinguish between episodic memory and what he termed semantic memory. He was mainly influenced by the ideas of Reiff and Scheers, who in 1959 made the distinction between two primary forms of memory. One form was entitled \"remembrances\", the other \"memoria\". The remembrance concept dealt with memories that contained experiences of an autobiographic index, whereas the memoria concept dealt with those memories that did not reference experiences having an autobiographic index. Semantic memory reflects our knowledge of the world around us, hence the term 'general knowledge' is often used. It holds generic information that is more than likely acquired across various contexts and is used across different situations. According to Madigan in his book titled \"Memory\", semantic memory is the sum of all knowledge one has obtained—whether it be vocabulary, understanding of math, or all the facts one knows. In his book titled \"Episodic and Semantic Memory\", Endel Tulving adopted the term \"semantic\" from linguists to refer to a system of memory for \"words and verbal symbols, their meanings and referents, the relations between them, and the rules, formulas, or algorithms for influencing them.\" The use of semantic memory is quite different from that of episodic memory. Semantic memory refers to general facts and meanings one shares with others whereas episodic memory refers to unique and concrete personal experiences. \nTulving's proposal of this distinction between semantic and episodic memory was widely accepted, primarily because it allowed the separate conceptualization of knowledge of the world. Tulving discusses conceptions of episodic and semantic memory in his book titled Elements of Episodic Memory. in which he states that several factors differentiate episodic memory and semantic memory in ways that include\n\n\nBefore Tulving's proposal, this area of human memory had been neglected by experimental psychologists. Since Tulvings inception of these distinctions, several experimenters have conducted tests to determine the validity of his hypothesized differences between episodic and semantic memory.\n\nRecent research has focused on the idea that when people access a word's meaning, sensorimotor information that is used to perceive and act on the concrete object the word suggests is automatically activated. In the theory of grounded cognition, the meaning of a particular word is grounded in the sensorimotor systems. For example, when one thinks of a pear, knowledge of grasping, chewing, sights, sounds, and tastes used to encode episodic experiences of a pear are recalled through sensorimotor simulation. A grounded simulation approach refers to context-specific re-activations that integrate the important features of episodic experience into a current depiction. Such research has challenged previously utilized amodal views. The brain encodes multiple inputs such as words and pictures to integrate and create a larger conceptual idea by using amodal views (also known as amodal perceptions. Instead of being representations in modality-specific systems, semantic memory representations had previously been viewed as redescriptions of modality-specific states. Some accounts of category-specific semantic deficits that are amodal remain even though researchers are beginning to find support for theories in which knowledge is tied to modality-specific brain regions. This research defines a clear link between episodic experiences and semantic memory. The concept that semantic representations are grounded across modality-specific brain regions can be supported by the fact that episodic and semantic memory appear to function in different yet mutually dependent ways. The distinction between semantic and episodic memory has become a part of the broader scientific discourse. For example, it has been speculated that semantic memory captures the stable aspects of our personality while episodes of illness may have a more episodic nature.\n\nThis study was not created to solely provide evidence for the distinction of semantic and episodic memory stores. However, they did use the experimental dissociation method which provides evidence for Tulving's hypothesis.\n\n\"Part one\"\n\nSubjects were presented with 60 words (one at a time) and were asked different questions.\n\n\n\"Part Two\"\n\nIn the second phase of the experiment, 60 \"old words\" seen in stage one and \"20 new words\" not shown in stage one were presented to the subjects one at a time.\n\nThe subjects were given one of two tasks:\n\n\n\n\n\nIt displays a strong distinction of performance of episodic and semantic tasks, thus supporting Tulving's hypothesis.\n\nThe essence of semantic memory is that its contents are not tied to any particular instance of experience, as in episodic memory. Instead, what is stored in semantic memory is the \"gist\" of experience, an abstract structure that applies to a wide variety of experiential objects and delineates categorical and functional relationships between such objects. Thus, a complete theory of semantic memory must account not only for the representational structure of such \"gists\", but also for how they can be extracted from experience. Numerous models of semantic memory have been proposed; they are summarized below.\n\nNetworks of various sorts play an integral part in many theories of semantic memory. Generally speaking, a network is composed of a set of nodes connected by links. The nodes may represent concepts, words, perceptual features, or nothing at all. The links may be weighted such that some are stronger than others or, equivalently, have a length such that some links take longer to traverse than others. All these features of networks have been employed in models of semantic memory, examples of which are found below.\n\nOne of the first examples of a network model of semantic memory is the Teachable Language Comprehender (TLC). In this model, each node is a word, representing a concept (like \"Bird\"). With each node is stored a set of properties (like \"can fly\" or \"has wings\") as well as pointers (i.e., links) to other nodes (like \"Chicken\"). A node is directly linked to those nodes of which it is either a subclass or superclass (i.e., \"Bird\" would be connected to both \"Chicken\" and \"Animal\"). Thus, TLC is a hierarchical knowledge representation in that high-level nodes representing large categories are connected (directly or indirectly, via the nodes of subclasses) to many instances of those categories, whereas nodes representing specific instances are at a lower level, connected only to their superclasses. Furthermore, properties are stored at the highest category level to which they apply. For example, \"is yellow\" would be stored with \"Canary\", \"has wings\" would be stored with \"Bird\" (one level up), and \"can move\" would be stored with \"Animal\" (another level up). Nodes may also store negations of the properties of their superordinate nodes (i.e., \"NOT-can fly\" would be stored with \"penguin\"). This provides an economy of representation in that properties are only stored at the category level at which they become essential, that is, at which point they become critical features (see below).\n\nProcessing in TLC is a form of spreading activation. That is, when a node becomes active, that activation spreads to other nodes via the links between them. In that case, the time to answer the question \"Is a chicken a bird?\" is a function of how far the activation between the nodes for \"Chicken\" and \"Bird\" must spread, i.e., the number of links between the nodes \"Chicken\" and \"Bird\".\n\nThe original version of TLC did not put weights on the links between nodes. This version performed comparably to humans in many tasks, but failed to predict that people would respond faster to questions regarding more typical category instances than those involving less typical instances. Collins and Quillian later updated TLC to include weighted connections to account for this effect. This updated TLC is capable of explaining both the familiarity effect and the typicality effect. Its biggest advantage is that it clearly explains priming: you are more likely to retrieve information from memory if related information (the \"prime\") has been presented a short time before. There are still a number of memory phenomena for which TLC has no account, including why people are able to respond quickly to obviously false questions (like \"is a chicken a meteor?\"), when the relevant nodes are very far apart in the network.\n\nTLC is an instance of a more general class of models known as semantic networks. In a semantic network, each node is to be interpreted as representing a specific concept, word, or feature. That is, each node is a symbol. Semantic networks generally do not employ distributed representations for concepts, as may be found in a neural network. The defining feature of a semantic network is that its links are almost always directed (that is, they only point in one direction, from a base to a target) and the links come in many different types, each one standing for a particular relationship that can hold between any two nodes. Processing in a semantic network often takes the form of spreading activation (see above).\n\nSemantic networks see the most use in models of discourse and logical comprehension, as well as in Artificial Intelligence. In these models, the nodes correspond to words or word stems and the links represent syntactic relations between them. For an example of a computational implementation of semantic networks in knowledge representation, see Cravo and Martins (1993).\n\nFeature models view semantic categories as being composed of relatively unstructured sets of features. The semantic feature-comparison model, proposed by Smith, Shoben, and Rips (1974), describes memory as being composed of feature lists for different concepts. According to this view, the relations between categories would not be directly retrieved, they would be indirectly computed. For example, subjects might verify a sentence by comparing the feature sets that represent its subject and predicate concepts. Such computational feature-comparison models include the ones proposed by Meyer (1970), Rips (1975), Smith, et al. (1974).\n\nEarly work in perceptual and conceptual categorization assumed that categories had critical features and that category membership could be determined by logical rules for the combination of features. More recent theories have accepted that categories may have an ill-defined or \"fuzzy\" structure and have proposed probabilistic or global similarity models for the verification of category membership.\n\nThe \"association\"—a relationship between two pieces of information—is a fundamental concept in psychology, and associations at various levels of mental representation are essential to models of memory and cognition in general. The set of associations among a collection of items in memory is equivalent to the links between nodes in a network, where each node corresponds to a unique item in memory. Indeed, neural networks and semantic networks may be characterized as associative models of cognition. However, associations are often more clearly represented as an \"N\"×\"N\" matrix, where \"N\" is the number of items in memory. Thus, each cell of the matrix corresponds to the strength of the association between the row item and the column item.\n\nLearning of associations is generally believed to be a Hebbian process; that is, whenever two items in memory are simultaneously active, the association between them grows stronger, and the more likely either item is to activate the other. See below for specific operationalizations of associative models.\n\nA standard model of memory that employs association in this manner is the Search of Associative Memory (SAM) model. Though SAM was originally designed to model episodic memory, its mechanisms are sufficient to support some semantic memory representations, as well. The SAM model contains a short- term store (STS) and long term store (LTS), where STS is a briefly activated subset of the information in the LTS. The STS has limited capacity and affects the retrieval process by limiting the amount of information that can be sampled and limiting the time the sampled subset is in an active mode. The retrieval process in LTS is cue dependent and probabilistic, meaning that a cue initiates the retrieval process and the selected information from memory is random. The probability of being sampled is dependent on the strength of association between the cue and the item being retrieved, with stronger associations being sampled and finally one is chosen. The buffer size is defined as r, and not a fixed number, and as items are rehearsed in the buffer the associative strengths grow linearly as a function of the total time inside the buffer. In SAM, when any two items simultaneously occupy a working memory buffer, the strength of their association is incremented. Thus, items that co-occur more often are more strongly associated. Items in SAM are also associated with a specific context, where the strength of that association determined by how long each item is present in a given context. In SAM, then, memories consist of a set of associations between items in memory and between items and contexts. The presence of a set of items and/or a context is more likely to evoke, then, some subset of the items in memory. The degree to which items evoke one another—either by virtue of their shared context or their co-occurrence—is an indication of the items' semantic relatedness.\n\nIn an updated version of SAM, pre-existing semantic associations are accounted for using a semantic matrix. During the experiment, semantic associations remain fixed showing the assumption that semantic associations are not significantly impacted by the episodic experience of one experiment. The two measures used to measure semantic relatedness in this model are the Latent semantic analysis (LSA) and the Word association spaces (WAS). The LSA method states that similarity between words is reflected through their co-occurrence in a local context. WAS was developed by analyzing a database of free association norms. In WAS, \"words that have similar associative structures are placed in similar regions of space.\"\n\nThe ACT (Adaptive Control of Thought) (and later ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational)) theory of cognition represents declarative memory (of which semantic memory is a part) with \"chunks\", which consist of a label, a set of defined relationships to other chunks (i.e., \"this is a _\", or \"this has a _\"), and any number of chunk-specific properties. Chunks, then, can be mapped as a semantic network, given that each node is a chunk with its unique properties, and each link is the chunk's relationship to another chunk. In ACT, a chunk's activation decreases as a function of the time since the chunk was created and increases with the number of times the chunk has been retrieved from memory. Chunks can also receive activation from Gaussian noise, and from their similarity to other chunks. For example, if \"chicken\" is used as a retrieval cue, \"canary\" will receive activation by virtue of its similarity to the cue (i.e., both are birds, etc.). When retrieving items from memory, ACT looks at the most active chunk in memory; if it is above threshold, it is retrieved, otherwise an \"error of omission\" has occurred, i.e., the item has been forgotten. There is, additionally, a retrieval latency, which varies inversely with the amount by which the activation of the retrieved chunk exceeds the retrieval threshold. This latency is used in measuring the response time of the ACT model, to compare it to human performance.\n\nWhile ACT is a model of cognition in general, and not memory in particular, it nonetheless posits certain features of the structure of memory, as described above. In particular, ACT models memory as a set of related symbolic chunks which may be accessed by retrieval cues. While the model of memory employed in ACT is similar in some ways to a semantic network, the processing involved is more akin to an associative model.\n\nSome models characterize the acquisition of semantic information as a form of statistical inference from a set of discrete experiences, distributed across a number of \"contexts\". Though these models differ in specifics, they generally employ an (Item × Context) matrix where each cell represents the number of times an item in memory has occurred in a given context. Semantic information is gleaned by performing a statistical analysis of this matrix.\n\nMany of these models bear similarity to the algorithms used in search engines (for example, see Griffiths, \"et al.\", 2007 and Anderson, 1990), though it is not yet clear whether they really use the same computational mechanisms.\n\nPerhaps the most popular of these models is Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA). In LSA, a T × D matrix is constructed from a text corpus where T is the number of terms in the corpus and D is the number of documents (here \"context\" is interpreted as \"document\" and only words—or word phrases—are considered as items in memory). Each cell in the matrix is then transformed according to the equation:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the probability that context formula_3 is active, given that item formula_4 has occurred (this is obtained simply by dividing the raw frequency, formula_5 by the total of the item vector, formula_6). This transformation—applying the logarithm, then dividing by the information entropy of the item over all contexts—provides for greater differentiation between items and effectively weights items by their ability to predict context, and vice versa (that is, items that appear across many contexts, like \"the\" or \"and\", will be weighted less, reflecting their lack of semantic information). A Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) is then performed on the matrix formula_7, which allows the number of dimensions in the matrix to be reduced, thus clustering LSA's semantic representations and providing for indirect association between items. For example, \"cat\" and \"dog\" may never appear together in the same context, so their close semantic relationship may not be well-captured by LSA's original matrix formula_8. However, by performing the SVD and reducing the number of dimensions in the matrix, the context vectors of \"cat\" and \"dog\"—which would be very similar—would migrate toward one another and perhaps merge, thus allowing \"cat\" and \"dog\" to act as retrieval cues for each other, even though they may never have co-occurred. The degree of semantic relatedness of items in memory is given by the cosine of the angle between the items' context vectors (ranging from 1 for perfect synonyms to 0 for no relationship). Essentially, then, two words are closely semantically related if they appear in similar types of documents.\n\nThe Hyperspace Analogue to Language (HAL) model considers context only as the words that immediately surround a given word. HAL computes an NxN matrix, where N is the number of words in its lexicon, using a 10-word reading frame that moves incrementally through a corpus of text. Like in SAM (see above), any time two words are simultaneously in the frame, the association between them is increased, that is, the corresponding cell in the NxN matrix is incremented. The bigger the distance between the two words, the smaller the amount by which the association is incremented (specifically, formula_9, where formula_10 is the distance between the two words in the frame). As in LSA (see above), the semantic similarity between two words is given by the cosine of the angle between their vectors (dimension reduction may be performed on this matrix, as well). In HAL, then, two words are semantically related if they tend to appear with the same words. Note that this may hold true even when the words being compared never actually co-occur (i.e., \"chicken\" and \"canary\").\n\nThe success of LSA and HAL gave birth to a whole field of statistical models of language. A more up-to-date list of such models may be found under the topic Measures of semantic relatedness.\n\nThe cognitive neuroscience of semantic memory is a somewhat controversial issue with two dominant views.\n\nOn the one hand, many researchers and clinicians believe that semantic memory is stored by the same brain systems involved in episodic memory. These include the medial temporal lobes (MTL) and hippocampal formation. In this system, the hippocampal formation \"encodes\" memories, or makes it possible for memories to form at all, and the cortex stores memories after the initial encoding process is completed.\n\nRecently, new evidence has been presented in support of a more precise interpretation of this hypothesis. The hippocampal formation includes, among other structures: the hippocampus itself, the entorhinal cortex, and the perirhinal cortex. These latter two make up the \"parahippocampal cortices\". Amnesics with damage to the hippocampus but some spared parahippocampal cortex were able to demonstrate some degree of intact semantic memory despite a total loss of episodic memory. This strongly suggests that encoding of information leading to semantic memory does not have its physiological basis in the hippocampus.\n\nOther researchers believe the hippocampus is only involved in episodic memory and spatial cognition. This then raises the question where semantic memory may be located. Some believe semantic memory lives in temporal neocortex. Others believe that semantic knowledge is widely distributed across all brain areas. To illustrate this latter view, consider your knowledge of dogs. Researchers holding the 'distributed semantic knowledge' view believe that your knowledge of the sound a dog makes exists in your auditory cortex, whilst your ability to recognize and imagine the visual features of a dog resides in your visual cortex. Recent evidence supports the idea that the temporal pole bilaterally is the convergence zone for unimodal semantic representations into a multimodal representation. These regions are particularly vulnerable to damage in semantic dementia, which is characterised by a global semantic deficit.\n\nThe hippocampal areas are important to semantic memory's involvement with declarative memory. The left inferior prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the left posterior temporal areas are other areas involved in semantic memory use. Temporal lobe damage affecting the lateral and medial cortexes have been related to semantic impairments. Damage to different areas of the brain affect semantic memory differently.\n\nNeuroimaging evidence suggests that left hippocampal areas show an increase in activity during semantic memory tasks. During semantic retrieval, two regions in the right middle frontal gyrus and the area of the right inferior temporal gyrus similarly show an increase in activity. Damage to areas involved in semantic memory result in various deficits, depending on the area and type of damage. For instance, Lambon Ralph, Lowe, & Rogers (2007) found that category-specific impairments can occur where patients have different knowledge deficits for one semantic category over another, depending on location and type of damage. Category-specific impairments might indicate that knowledge may rely differentially upon sensory and motor properties encoded in separate areas (Farah and McClelland, 1991).\n\nCategory-specific impairments can involve cortical regions where living and nonliving things are represented and where feature and conceptual relationships are represented. Depending on the damage to the semantic system, one type might be favored over the other. In many cases, there is a point where one domain is better than the other (i.e. - representation of living and nonliving things over feature and conceptual relationships or vice versa)\n\nDifferent diseases and disorders can affect the biological workings of semantic memory. A variety of studies have been done in an attempt to determine the effects on varying aspects of semantic memory. For example, Lambon, Lowe, & Rogers (2007) studied the different effects semantic dementia and herpes simplex virus encephalitis have on semantic memory. They found that semantic dementia has a more generalized semantic impairment. Additionally, deficits in semantic memory as a result of herpes simplex virus encephalitis tend to have more category-specific impairments. Other disorders that affect semantic memory - such as Alzheimer's disease - has been observed clinically as errors in naming, recognizing, or describing objects. Whereas researchers have attributed such impairment to degradation of semantic knowledge (Koenig et al. 2007).\n\nVarious neural imaging and research points to semantic memory and episodic memory resulting from distinct areas in the brain. Still other research suggests that both semantic memory and episodic memory are part of a singular declarative memory system, yet represent different sectors and parts within the greater whole. Different areas within the brain are activated depending on whether semantic or episodic memory is accessed. Certain experts are still arguing whether or not the two types of memory are from distinct systems or whether the neural imaging makes it appear that way as a result of the activation of different mental processes during retrieval.\n\nIn order to understand semantic memory disorders, one must first understand how these disorders affect memory. Semantic memory disorders fractionate into two categories. Semantic category specific impairments and modality specific impairments are apparent in disorders of semantic memory. Understanding these types of impairments will give insight into how disorders of semantic memory function.\n\nCategory specific impairments can result in widespread, patchy damage or localized damage. Category specific impairments can be broken down into four categories. Perceptual and functional features, topographic organization, informativeness and intercorrelations are areas of decreased functioning in disorders of semantic memory (Warrington and Shallice, 1984). Alzheimer's disease is a semantic memory disorder that results in errors describing and naming objects, though not necessarily category-specific. Semantic dementia is another disorder associated with semantic memory. Semantic dementia is a language disorder characterized by a deterioration in understanding and recognizing words. Impairments include difficulty in generating familiar words, difficulty naming objects and difficulties with visual recognition. Research suggests that the temporal lobe might be responsible for category specific impairments of semantic memory disorders. In addition to category specific impairments, modality specific impairments are included in disorders of semantic memory (Cohen et al. 2002).\n\nSemantic memory is also discussed in reference to modality. Different components represent information from different sensorimotor channels. Modality specific impairments are divided into separate subsystems on the basis of input modality. Examples of different input modalities include visual, auditory and tactile input. Modality specific impairments are also divided into subsystems based on the type of information. Visual vs. verbal and perceptual vs. functional information are examples of information types. Modality specificity can account for category specific impairments in semantic memory disorders. Damage to visual semantics primarily impairs knowledge of living things, and damage to functional semantics primarily impairs knowledge of nonliving things.\n\nSemantic memory disorders fall into two groups. Semantic refractory access disorders are contrasted with semantic storage disorders according to four factors. Temporal factors, response consistency, frequency and semantic relatedness are the four factors used to differentiate between semantic refractory access and semantic storage disorders. A key feature of semantic refractory access disorders is temporal distortions. Decreases in response time to certain stimuli are noted when compared to natural response times. Response consistency is the next factor. In access disorders you see inconsistencies in comprehending and responding to stimuli that have been presented many times. Temporal factors impact response consistency. In storage disorders, you do not see an inconsistent response to specific items like you do in refractory access disorders. Stimulus frequency determines performance at all stages of cognition. Extreme word frequency effects are common in semantic storage disorders while in semantic refractory access disorders word frequency effects are minimal. The comparison of 'close' and 'distant' groups tests semantic relatedness. 'Close' groupings have words that are related because they are drawn from the same category. For example, a listing of clothing types would be a 'close' grouping. 'Distant' groupings contain words with broad categorical differences. Non-related words would fall into this group. Comparing close and distant groups shows that in access disorders semantic relatedness had a negative effect. This is not observed in semantic storage disorders. Category specific and modality specific impairments are important components in access and storage disorders of semantic memory.\n\nSemantic memory has had a comeback in interest in the past 15 years, due in part to the development of functional neuroimaging methods such as positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), which have been used to address some of the central questions about our understanding of semantic memory.\n\nPositron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) allow cognitive neuroscientists to explore different hypotheses concerning the neural network organization of semantic memory. By using these neuroimaging techniques researchers can observe the brain activity of participants while they perform cognitive tasks. These tasks can include, but are not limited to, naming objects, deciding if two stimuli belong in the same object category, or matching pictures to their written or spoken names.\n\nRather than any one brain region playing a dedicated and privileged role in the representation or retrieval of all sorts of semantic knowledge, semantic memory is a collection of functionally and anatomically distinct systems, where each attribute-specific system is tied to a sensorimotor modality (i.e. vision) and even more specifically to a property within that modality (i.e. color). Neuroimaging studies also suggest a distinction between semantic processing and sensorimotor processing.\n\nA new idea that is still at the early stages of development is that semantic memory, like perception, can be subdivided into types of visual information—color, size, form, and motion. Thompson-Schill (2003) found that the left or bilateral ventral temporal cortex appears to be involved in retrieval of knowledge of color and form, the left lateral temporal cortex in knowledge of motion, and the parietal cortex in knowledge of size.\n\nNeuroimaging studies suggest a large, distributed network of semantic representations that are organized minimally by attribute, and perhaps additionally by category. These networks include \"extensive regions of ventral (form and color knowledge) and lateral (motion knowledge) temporal cortex, parietal cortex (size knowledge), and premotor cortex (manipulation knowledge). Other areas, such as more anterior regions of temporal cortex, may be involved in the representation of nonperceptual (e.g. verbal) conceptual knowledge, perhaps in some categorically-organized fashion.\" It is suggested that within the temperoparietal network, the anterior temporal lobe is relatively more important for semantic processing, and posterior language regions are relatively more important for lexical retrieval.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33614216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33614216", "title": "Siegfried Lienhard", "text": "Siegfried Lienhard\n\nSiegfried Lienhard, born on 29 August 1924 in Sankt Veit an der Glan, Austria, died March 6, 2011, was a professor of Indology at Stockholm University and a scholar of the Newar language.\n\nHe has published on the history of poetry in South Asia, as well as a catalogue of the Newar manuscripts held in the State Library of Berlin, a collection of Newar folk songs, and textual studies of classical Newar texts. In 1995 his students and colleagues published a \"Festschrift\" in his honour. In 2007 Oskar von Hinueber edited the collected minor writings of Siegfried Lienhard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22211972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22211972", "title": "Stanley Leighton", "text": "Stanley Leighton\n\nStanley Leighton (1837 – 4 May 1901) was an English barrister, landowner, artist and Conservative politician. He is also known as an antiquarian and author.\nLeighton was the younger son of Sir Baldwin Leighton, 7th Baronet, of Loton Park, and his wife Mary Parker. He was educated at Harrow School and Balliol College, Oxford. He then attended Inner Temple and was called to the bar on 18 November 1861, proceeding to the Oxford Circuit. In 1867 he travelled to the colonies with his friend and fellow-barrister, Rees Davies. His diaries record a trip to India and Ceylon in 1867-1868 and the pair visited Australia in 1868 where Leighton produced many original sketches. In 1869 his father passed on to him the Sweeney estate at Oswestry which had come to his mother through the Parker family. He became J.P. for Shropshire in 1869 and also Deputy Lieutenant. He was also a Captain of the 15th Shropshire Rifle Volunteers which he remained until 1888\n\nLeighton owned brickworks at Sweeney, near Oswestry, which he leased to the Oswestry Coal & Brick Co. Ltd. before 1880, then to the Sweeney Brick Co. Ltd., and after 1885 it was leased to Kay & Hindle Ltd. as the Sweeney Brick & Terra-cotta Works. In 1875, he purchased Llwyd's Mansion, an impressive timber framed building in the centre of Oswestry dating from 1604, which was then renovated and divided into shops.\n\nIn 1874 Leighton stood unsuccessfully for Bewdley but at a by-election in 1876 he was elected Member of Parliament for North Shropshire and held the seat until it was reorganised in 1885. He was then elected for Oswestry and held the seat until his death.\n\nLeighton was an antiquary and active member of the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings which was founded by William Morris and Philip Webb in 1877, to oppose what they saw as the insensitive renovation of ancient buildings then occurring in Victorian England. In 1888 he was Honorary Commissioner for South Australia at the Paris Exhibition 1888, and he was author of \"Records of Oswestry\". His \"Shropshire houses: past & present; illustrated from drawings (1901)\" was complete and in the printer's hands at the time of his death.\n\nHe died of pneumonia at his London home aged 63, having hastened to vote in the Commons over the Coal Duty Bill. He was buried in St Oswald's parish churchyard at Oswestry.\n\nLeighton married Jessie Marie Williams-Wynn, daughter of Herbert Bertie Watkin Williams-Wynn on 28 August 1873. Their son Bertie Edward Parker Leighton (1875–1952) was also MP for Oswestry (1929-1945) and inherited the Sweeney Estate.\n"}
{"id": "7963618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963618", "title": "Terrain cartography", "text": "Terrain cartography\n\nTerrain or relief is an essential aspect of physical geography, and as such its portrayal presents a central problem in cartography, and more recently GIS and geovisualization.\n\nThe most obvious way to depict relief is to imitate it at scale, as in molded or sculpted solid terrain models and molded-plastic raised-relief maps. Because of the disparity between the horizontal and vertical scales of maps, raised relief is typically exaggerated.\n\nOn flat paper maps and computer screens, terrain can be depicted in a variety of ways, outlined below.\n\nThe most ancient form of relief depiction in cartography, hill profiles are simply illustrations of mountains and hills in profile, placed as appropriate on generally small-scale (broad area of coverage) maps. They are seldom used today except as part of an \"antique\" styling.\n\nHachures are also an older mode of representing relief. They are a form of shading, although different from the one used in shaded maps. They show the orientation of slope, and by their thickness and overall density they provide a general sense of steepness. Being non-numeric, they are less useful to a scientific survey than contours, but can successfully communicate quite specific shapes of terrain.\n\nHachure representation of relief was standardized by the Austrian topographer Johann Georg Lehmann in 1799.\n\nContour lines (or isohypses) are isolines showing equal elevation. This is the most common way of numerically showing elevation, and is familiar from topographic maps.\n\nMost 18th and early 19th century national surveys did not record relief across the entire area of coverage, calculating only spot elevations at survey points. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) topographical survey maps included contour representation of relief, and so maps that show relief, especially with exact representation of elevation, came to be called topographic maps (or \"topo\" maps) in the United States, and the usage has spread internationally.\nOn maps produced by Swisstopo, the color of the contour lines is used to indicate the type of ground: black for bare rock and scree, blue for ice and underwater contours, brown for earth-covered ground.\n\nThe Tanaka (Relief) Contours technique is a method used to illuminate contour lines in order to help visualize terrain. Lines are highlighted or shaded depending on their relationship to a light source in the Northwest. If the object being illustrated would shadow a section of contour line, that contour would be represented with a black band. Otherwise, slopes facing the light source would be represented by white bands.\n\nThis method was developed by Professor Tanaka Kitiro in 1950, but had been experimented with as early as 1870, with little success due to technological limitations in printing. The resulting terrain at this point was a grayscale image. Cartographer Berthold Horn later created software to digitally produce Tanaka Contours, and Patrick Kennelly, another cartographer, later found a way to add color to these maps, making them more realistic.\n\nThere are a number of issues with this method. Historically, maps using Tanaka Contours could only be produced on gray backgrounds, which technology was unprepared for. This method is also very time consuming. In addition, the method takes into account mainly aspect and elevation, whereas slope is un accounted for resulting in a very terraced appearance. \n\nShaded relief, or hill-shading, shows the shape of the terrain in a realistic fashion by showing how the three-dimensional surface would be illuminated from a point light source. The shadows normally follow the convention of top-left lighting in which the light source is placed near the upper-left corner of the map. If the map is oriented with north at the top, the result is that the light appears to come from the north-west. Although this is unrealistic lighting in the northern hemisphere, using a southern light source can cause multistable perception illusions, in which the topography appears inverted.\n\nShaded relief was traditionally drawn with charcoal, airbrush and other artist's media. The Swiss master Eduard Imhof is widely regarded as the master of manual hill-shading technique and theory. Imhof's contributions included a multi-color approach to shading, with purples in valleys and yellows on peaks, which is known as “illuminated shading.” Illuminating the sides of the terrain facing the light source with yellow colors provides greater realism, enhances the sense of the three-dimensional nature of the terrain, and make the map more aesthetically pleasing and artistic-looking.\n\nShaded relief is today almost exclusively computer-generated using digital elevation models (DEM), with a resulting different look and feel. Much work has been done in digitally recreating the work of Eduard Imhof, which has been fairly successful in some cases. The DEM may be converted to shaded relief using software such as Photoshop, QGIS, GRASS GIS or ArcMap's Spatial Analyst extension. Computer-generated effects to increase the realism of shaded relief include resolution bumping, the blending of hill-shades at different scales, and sky model shading, which simulates ambient light on terrain from many directions.\n\nPioneered by Erwin Raisz, this technique uses generalized texture to imitate landform shapes over a large area. A combination of hill profile and shaded relief, this style of terrain representation is simultaneously idiosyncratic to its creator -- often hand-painted -- and found insightful in illustrating geomorphological patterns.\n\nMore recently, Tom Patterson created a computer-generated map of the United States using Erwin Raisz's work as a starting point,\nthe \"Physical Map of the Coterminous United States\"; he called the technique \"plan oblique relief\".\n\nEmphasizes hydrological drainage divide and watershed streams.\n\nPortrayal of relief is especially important in mountainous regions. The Commission on Mountain Cartography of the International Cartographic Association is the best-known forum for discussion of theory and techniques for mapping these regions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36626247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36626247", "title": "The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center", "text": "The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center\n\nThe Asian Studies Center is The Heritage Foundation's oldest research center. It was established in 1983 in recognition of the dynamic Asia-Pacific region’s growing importance to U.S. interests. Today, the Center is internationally recognized as one of the world’s preeminent policy think tanks working on Asian issues. Its Scholars consistently advocate policies that promote liberty and democracy, economic freedom, the rule of law, and a robust system of security alliances. Highlights include hosting the annual B.C. Lee Lecture, which has featured remarks by such notables as Henry Kissinger and Condoleezza Rice; Key Asian Indicators: A 2009 Book of Charts which provides a snapshot in time of how countries in the region fare economically and more.The Asian Studies Center is heavily engaged with the Asian-Pacific press corps in Washington, D.C., through its one-of-a-kind Washington Roundtable for the Asia Pacific Press.(WRAPP)\n\nThese lectures focus on U.S. Relations with the Asia-Pacific region. They are funded by an endowment from the Samsung group in honor of the late B.C. Lee, the corporations's founder.\nThe Washington Roundtable for the Asia-Pacific Press (WRAPP) is the largest organization of Asian media in the United States. It is currently affiliated with The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center. WRAPP's purpose is to provide Asian journalists greater access to \"Inside the Beltway\" policy-makers.\n\nSince its inception in 1994, WRAPP has sponsored monthly news briefings tailored to the needs of Asian journalists. Roundtable sessions have included speakers such as Rep. Benjamin Gilman (R-NY), Chairman of the House International Relations Committee, Rep. Doug Bereuter (R-NB), Chairman of the House Asia-Pacific Subcommittee, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Dr. Kurt Campbell. Personalities such as Washington Post syndicated columnist David Broder have also been featured in the Roundtable's \"on-the-record\" briefings.\n\nWRAPP membership includes nearly all Washington correspondents from Japan, Taiwan, Korea, China, and other countries in the region. Also among the Roundtable's 400 members are U.S.-based print and broadcast media - as well as international wire services and news agencies whose Washington bureaus cover Asia-Pacific diplomacy, trade, and security\n\n"}
{"id": "34478129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34478129", "title": "The Journal of Media Law", "text": "The Journal of Media Law\n\nThe Journal of Media Law is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal published by Hart Publishing. It was established in 2009 and is indexed by EBSCOhost, Academic Search Complete, and Applied Science & Technology Abstracts. The editors-in-chief are Eric Barendt (University College London), Thomas Gibbons (University of Manchester), and Rachael Craufurd Smith (University of Edinburgh).\n\n"}
{"id": "43185691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43185691", "title": "The Wrong Enemy", "text": "The Wrong Enemy\n\nThe Wrong Enemy: America in Afghanistan, 2001–2014 is a 2014 book by Carlotta Gall. In the book, she argues that the United States and its allies have been focused on stopping the terrorist activities of al-Qaeda and its Taliban supporters in Afghanistan, but that focus should have instead have been on antagonistic forces in Pakistan. Her reasoning is that the Taliban exists and Osama bin Laden was able to survive for so long (and Mullah Omar continues to be a fugitive) because Pakistan's corrupt government and the people at the Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistan's clandestine security service, provide aid to these terrorists.\n\nGall argues, using quotations from the area's leaders, that the US should have fought al-Qaeda and the Taliban inside Pakistan instead of going to war in Iraq in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "46782782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46782782", "title": "USCIS immigration forms", "text": "USCIS immigration forms\n\nThe United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) issues a number of forms for people to submit to them relating to immigrant and non-immigrant visa statuses. These forms begin with the letter \"I\". None of the forms directly grants a United States visa (visas can only be issued by US consulates outside the United States), but approval of these forms may provide authorization for staying or extending one's stay in the United States as well as authorization for work. Some United States visas require an associated approved USCIS immigration form to be submitted as part of the application.\n\nAlthough the term \"immigration form\" is used on this page, and the forms begin with the letter \"I\", many of the forms pertain to non-immigrant visa classifications.\n\nThe USCIS also issues some administrative request forms (AR) for purposes such as address change as well as G forms for other administrative purposes. The AR and G forms are generally filed in conjunction with a USCIS I form. The two most important G forms are the G-28 (notice of entry or appearance of attorney) and the G-1145 (e-notification of application/petition acceptance).\n\nThe USCIS also handles forms related to naturalization and citizenship. These forms begin with the letter \"N\" and are not discussed on this page.\n\nThere are two main forms that begin with the letter I and pertain to immigration status but are not managed by USCIS: Form I-20 (issued by educational institutions to students on a F visa status) and Form I-94 (issued by United States Customs and Border Protection when an alien enters the United States).\n\nAll USCIS forms are free to download. The filing fees vary by form, from free to several hundred dollars.\n\nThe filing fee for a form may not be the only fee that needs to be paid for the status being sought on the form. There may be additional fees associated with that status. For instance, Form I-129 is used to apply for H-1B status (among many other statuses).\n\nTwo of the forms, Form I-129 and Form I-140, are eligible for the Premium Processing Service, which requires the filing of Form I-907. As of 2015, this service costs $1225.\n\nSome applicants are eligible for a fee waiver. To apply for a fee waiver, the applicant must submit Form I-912, Request for a Fee Waiver, along with the application form.\n\nAll USCIS forms can be filed on paper. Payments must be included in the form of a check or money order along with the paper filing of the form.\n\nThe rules associated with where forms are to be mailed are complex: the location for mailing a form depends on the form name, the category of application, and the mailing address specified by the applicant (this may differ from the address the applicant sends the application from). The mailing address is either one of the lockbox addresses or one of the Service Center addresses. The lockboxes are in three US cities: Chicago (Illinois), Phoenix (Arizona), and Lewisville (Texas) (this is near Dallas, Texas and is often referred to as the Dallas lockbox). They are managed for the USCIS by a Department of Treasury designated financial agent. The lockbox cashes in on the included payment, sends an e-notification if the applicant filed Form G-1145 with the application, and forwards the rest of the application to the service center.\n\nAny response to a Request For Evidence (RFE) or Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID) must \"always\" be sent to the Service Center that sent the request, and \"never\" to a lockbox address, regardless of whether or not the original application was filed with a lockbox.\n\nSome of the USCIS forms may be filed electronically via e-Filing (for Forms I-131, I-140, I-765, I-821, and I-907) or the USCIS Electronic Immigration System (USCIS ELIS) (for Forms I-526, I-539, I-90, or the Immigrant Fee).\n\nElectronic filing offers the following benefits:\n\n\nHowever, there are two major caveats:\n\n\nTo enhance privacy and security for applicants, USCIS uses the HTTPS protocol for e-filing.\n\nThe two main kinds of forms are:\n\n\nIn addition, there are affidavits (such as Form I-134, Affidavit of Support) verification forms (Form I-9, Employee Eligibility Verification Form), and request forms, such as Form I-907, Request for Premium Processing Service.\n\nThere are many application forms. Only the most important ones are listed below.\n\nThese are the forms that need to be filed to appeal a decision by a USCIS officer regarding another form. The appeal form must be filed by the party that filed the original form. In particular, in the case of a petition, the appeal must be filed by the petitioner and cannot be filed by the beneficiary (if distinct from the petitioner). Appeals are handled by the Executive Office for Immigration Review within the USCIS, which has two branches: the Board of Immigration Appeals and the Administrative Appeals Office. BIA's main role is for challenges to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement decisions, but it is also used to appeal some USCIS forms.\nOf the USCIS immigration forms, decisions on the two forms Form I-130 (family-based immigration, the F and IR categories) and the widower subcategory for Form I-360 (special immigrants, the EB-4 category), must be appealed through the EOIR-29 (Notice of Appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals from a Decision of an Immigration Officer) to the Board of Immigration Appeals. Also, appeals for denials of Form N-400 (the naturalization petition) must be made using Form N-336. For Special Agricultural Worker (SAW) or legalization applications, the appeal must be filed on Form I-694, Notice of Appeal of Decision under Sections 245A or 210 of the Immigration and Nationality Act.\n\nFor all other USCIS petitions where appeal is possible, the petitioner can appeal an adverse USCIS decision on the petition to the AAO using Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion.\n\nAs of December 2016, appeal to AAO is possible for the following petition forms: I-129 (nonimmigrant worker), I-140 (immigrant worker), I-526 (immigrant investor), Form I-821, I-129F, I-601, I-212, I-360, I-600, I-600A, I-914, I-918, N-470. As of December 2016, there are no appeal rights for Form I-485 (Adjustment of Status)\n\nThere is no standalone appeals process for Form I-765.\n\nThe form is usually applied for in conjunction with another form that grants the underlying authorization, and a denial of the other form can be appealed.\n\nForm I-797 is a form used by the USCIS to issue approval of status or notice of receipt for applications. It is not a form that people can fill out.\n\nThe USCIS website includes a number of tips for people filing USCIS forms, including suggestions to download the latest version from the website, use black ink, and start with a clean form in case of errors. All supporting documents must be included in the application, and documents not in English must include a certified English translation.\n\nLaw resource NOLO emphasizes the importance of filling in all fields, even if it's filled with \"N/A\", and being accurate and consistent. NOLO also places emphasis on getting one's name correct.\n\n"}
{"id": "50747770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50747770", "title": "Varvakeion Athena", "text": "Varvakeion Athena\n\nThe Varvakeion Athena is a Roman-era statue of Athena Parthenos now part of the collection of the National Archaeological Museum of Athens. It is generally considered to be the most faithful reproduction of the chryselephantine statue made by Phidias and his assistants, which once stood in the Parthenon. It is dated to 200–250 AD.\n\nThe statue is tall, approximately one twelfth the estimated height of the original. It is carved of pentelic marble and bears traces of red and yellow paint. Athena is dressed in a peplos belted with a zone in the form of two snakes; over this she wears the aegis, decorated with snakes and with the gorgoneion in the center. She wears an Attic helmet with the cheek guards upturned; it has three crests, the center sporting a sphinx and those on the sides a pegasus. Her left hand rests on the rim of a shield which also bears the gorgoneion; the shield rests against the \"oikouros ophis\" (sacred snake) identified with Erichthonios, the city's legendary founder. The outstretched right hand is supported by a column and holds a winged figure of Nike, the head of which is missing. This smaller image is likewise garbed in a peplos and is turned somewhat towards the main figure. The whole assemblage rests on a rectangular base.\n\nCertain differences between the original as described by Pausanias and Pliny may be noted. The original base was decorated with a frieze showing the birth of Pandora, whereas the copy is plain; Pausanias also describes a spear which the copy lacks. The shield lacks the amazonomachy on the front which Pliny describes. The presence of the column is cited by many in the argument over whether the original required a similar support, though many reconstructions omit it (e.g. that in the Nashville Parthenon).\n\nThe statue is named for the locale of its discovery in 1880, near the original site of the Varvakeion School.\n"}
{"id": "34297826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34297826", "title": "Virtual Print Fee", "text": "Virtual Print Fee\n\nVirtual Print Fee (VPF) is a subsidy paid by a film distributor towards the purchase of digital cinema projection equipment for use by a film exhibitor in the presentation of first release motion pictures. The subsidy is paid in the form of a fee per booking of a movie, intended to match the savings that occurs by not shipping a film print. The model is designed to help redistribute the savings realized by studios when using digital distribution instead of film print distribution.\n\nThe first public demonstration of digital projection for cinema took place at ShoWest in 1999, and it was readily apparent that the technology was further ahead than the business model. Early technology presentations attempted to claim that the technology would pay for itself through new revenues generated by new forms of content. But exhibitors knew their audience, and could see that digital projection was only a replacement technology, creating new financial liabilities, and not new revenue. It wasn’t until the rollout of digital 3-D years later in 2005 that digital projection demonstrated that it could be used to generate additional revenue.\n\nThe economics were challenging. Film projectors and platters cost in the neighborhood of US$30,000, while early digital projectors cost up to US$150,000. Further, film projectors had a lifetime of 30 years with relatively small annual expenditures in maintenance and replacement parts. On the other hand, exhibitors felt they would be lucky to get 10 years of service from a digital projector, after which there would have to be a refresh in capital expenditure. Meanwhile, distributors would realize significant savings by eliminating the high cost of film prints with corresponding shipping costs, and instead distributing digital files either by satellite or hard drive. \n\nThe Virtual Print Fee was designed to better balance savings and expenditures for both exhibitors and distributors. It is intended to primarily assist in the replacement of film projectors, and not assist in the purchase of new projection equipment for new construction. To give confidence to financial institutions that digital cinema technology was stable and worthy of investment, Digital Cinema Initiatives was created in 2002, resulting in the release of the first version of the DCI Digital Cinema System Specification in 2005. The DCI Specification continues to be the core specification for digital cinema, establishing the baseline technology and system requirements for which studios will release digital movies.\n\nThe first set of VPF agreements executed with four major studios were announced by Christie/AIX in November 2005. Christie/AIX at that time was a subsidiary of Access Integrated Technology, now renamed Cinedigm Digital Cinema Corp. The agreements were for the rollout of digital cinema technology to 4000 screens. Since that time, numerous other Digital Cinema Deployment Agreements have been executed around the world, allowing exhibitors in nearly every territory to benefit from VPF subsidies in the conversion from film projection to digital projection.\n\nhttp://www.davidbordwell.net/blog/2011/12/01/pandoras-digital-box-in-the-multiplex/\n"}
{"id": "4227007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4227007", "title": "Zbruch Idol", "text": "Zbruch Idol\n\nThe Zbruch Idol, Sviatovid (\"Worldseeker\", , , ) is a 9th-century sculpture, more precisely an example of a bałwan, and one of the few monuments of pre-Christian Slavic beliefs. The pillar was commonly incorrectly associated with the Slavic deity Svetovid, although current opinions on the exact meaning of all the bas-reliefs and their symbols differ. It is thought that the three tiers of bas-relief represent the three levels of the world, from the bottom underworld, to the middle mortal world and the uppermost, largest, world of heavenly gods.\n\nIt is suggested that the sculpture was disposed of or was buried in a pit some time after the baptism of Kievan Rus, and acceptance of Christianity in Poland in 966, like various buried idols in Kiev and Novgorod. In the 19th century, when the Zbruch River (a left tributary of the Dniester) changed its bed, the area where the pillar was buried became submerged. It was discovered during a drought near the village of Lychkivtsi, just north of Husiatyn, in 1848. The statue is now on display in the Archaeological Museum of Kraków in Poland, with exact copies located in a number of museums, including the State Historical Museum in Moscow.\n\nThe Zbruch Idol is a four-sided pillar of grey limestone, in height, and has three tiers of reliefs engraved upon each of the four sides. The lower tier is ; the middle tier is ; and the top tier is . It is possible that during the 1848 excavation of the monument its lower layer was broken off and lost. The reliefs are in rather poor condition, though some traces of original polychrome were found in the 1960s. The reliefs depict the following characters:\n\n\nThe statue was discovered in August 1848 in the village of Lychkivtsi (Liczkowce) in Podolia (then in the Austrian Empire, now in Ukraine), during a drought that made the bottom of the river visible. The owner of the village, Konstanty Zaborowski, brother of the late poet, Tymon, donated it to Polish Count Mieczysław Potocki, who in 1850 reported it to the Kraków Scientific Society. It was also Potocki who first wondered that the statue might represent Swiatowid. Initially kept in the Library of the Jagiellonian University, in 1858 it was moved to the temporary exhibition of antiquities in the Lubomirski family palace and then to the headquarters of the Kraków Scientific Society. However, it was not until 1950 that it was placed on permanent exhibition. Since 1968 it has been kept in the Kraków Archaeological Museum.\n\nEver since the discovery of the monument there has been debate about what exactly the idol represents. Soon after the discovery, Joachim Lelewel theorized the top tier represented two bearded males and two females, being the four seasons: female with the ring, Spring; male with the horn, Summer; female with the horse and sword, Autumn; and the male without any attributes, Winter.\n\nAndrei Sergeevich Famintsyn in his 1884 work \"Ancient Slav Deities\" argued against Lelewel's theory, and instead claimed that the Zbruch pillar is a representation of a single deity and that all four sides of each tier represented one entity. As was first suggested by Count Potocki, he identified the deity as a representation of the Slavic four-headed god Swiatowid, until then primarily associated with the island of Rügen, but now understood to be pan-Slavic. The reasoning was that historical sources mentioned the deity of Rügen as being kept in a wooden temple together with a sacred sword, a drinking horn and a horse. Famintsyn was also the first to recognize the three-tiered structure as being related to the three levels of the world, linking it to the Slavic deity Triglav.\n\nThe identification of the deity with Swiatowid was also supported by Gabriel Leńczyk, who was also the first to identify the eroded solar symbol on the side, previously believed to be without attributes. Another theory was presented by Henryk Łowmiański, who in his 1979 monograph on the religion of Slavs suggested that the idol was altogether non-Slavic, as it was made of stone, and not of wood, which was the basic construction material of the Slavs, but the legends of Swiatowid exist among all Slavic cultures nonetheless.\n\nBoris Rybakov in his 1987 work \"Paganism of Ancient Rus\" (Russian tribes) argued that four sides of the top tier represent four different Slavic gods, two female and two male, with their corresponding middle-tier entities always of the opposite gender. In Rybakov's hypothesis, the male deity with the horse and sword is the Lightning god Perun, the female with the horn of plenty is Mokosh, the female with the ring is Lada, and the male deity with the solar symbol, above the empty underworld, is Dažbog, (the God of sunlight for whom the sun was not an object but an attribute, thus the symbol's position on his clothing rather than in his hand). Further, Rybakov suggests the underworld deity as Veles.\n\nRybakov also claimed the side with the female figure holding a horn as the front of the idol, based on the bottom-tier figure, which is shown with legs as if seen from head-on, the two adjoining sides showing the legs from the side, and the fourth side left blank. Finally, Rybakov believes that the idol's overall phallic shape is meant to unite all of the smaller figures as a single overarching all seeing larger deity, Rod.\n\nAccording to Aleksey Komar and Natalia Khamaiko (2011), the sculpture is a fake produced by Tymon Zaborowski, whose estate was located near the place where the statue was found.\n\n"}
