{"id": "19845965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19845965", "title": "ACMEC", "text": "ACMEC\n\nAdhiparasakthi Charitable, Medical, Educational and Cultural Trust (ACMEC) is a charitable organization in Tamil Nadu, India. It was founded in 1978 in Melmaruvathur by Bangaru Adigalar; it funds colleges and a hospital as well as a variety of other local services.\n"}
{"id": "29937384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29937384", "title": "Al-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din", "text": "Al-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din\n\nAl-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din or al-Nasir li Din Allah Muhammad Salah al-Din ibn Ali al-Mahdi (Arabic: الناصر لدين الله محمد صلاح الدين بن علي المهدي ) (b. September 4, 1338 - d. November 2, 1391) was an imam of Yemen who ruled during the period 1372-1391. He was a Zaydi imam and a descendant of the Prophet Muhammad.\n\nAl-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din was a son of Ali al-Mahdi ibn Muhammad, who was an imam of Yemen who ruled during the period 1349-1372.\n\nIn the first half of 14th century, several imams had disputed the succession. About the middle of the century, his father Ali al-Mahdi ibn Muhammad attained considerable influence, which was however reduced before his death in Dhamar in 1372. Al-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din became the sole Zaydi imam of Yemen. However, the important city San'a was in the hands of a Zaidi family that ruled as emirs. In the year after his accession, al-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din attempted to seize San'a, but was unable to penetrate the strong defences. Instead, he resorted to strategy. He married the mother of the emir Idris bin Abdallah, but when Idris came to meet his new step-father, the latter arrested him and then marched into San'a in full force, in 1381. Idris and his mother were allowed to live in the city, but had no further contact with the imam. Al-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din was a comparatively successful ruler; he advanced as far as the Tihama in the coastland of South Arabia, moving against the Rasulids. In 1391 he was thrown off his mule and dragged along, receiving fatal injuries. When he died in San'a, his death was concealed for two months on account of insecurity. He is buried in the Salah al-Din Mosque, built on his initiative. He was the husband of as-Sayyidah Fatimah, daughter of the headman of the Kurds in Dhamar, who built the al-Abhar Mosque in San'a. The death of al-Nasir was followed by internal turmoil among the Zaydi elite, but control over San'a was soon acquired by his young son al-Mansur Ali bin Salah al-Din.\n\nAl-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din wrote a commentary on al-Zamakhshari's \"al-Kalim al-Nawabigh\". He titled his work \"al-Hikam al-Sawabigh fi al-Kalim al-Nawabigh\". In the same period of time, al-Taftazani (d. 1390) wrote also a commentary on al-Zamakhshari's work with slightly different title: \"al-Ni'am al-Sawabigh fi al-Kalim al-Nawabigh\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56784416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56784416", "title": "Balarama Deva", "text": "Balarama Deva\n\nBalarama Deva or Balaram Deo (Odia: ବଳରାମ୍ ଦେବ୍) was the first Chauhan ruler of Sambalpur line of Chauhan rulers and the tenth in line ruler of the Chauhan dynasty in the Western Odisha region during the sixteenth century. He was a powerful ruler and an excellent military strategist who ruled the hilly and forest tracts of western Odisha that was mostly inhabited by different tribal or aboriginal communities. After his ascension to the throne in the year 1575 A.D, he secured the region from the neighboring Ratanpur's Haihayas and build a strong state surpassing the glory of his ancestral Chauhan state of Patna (Bolangir). Balarama Deva had also provided military assistance to the Gajapati king Ramachandra Deva of Khurda Kingdom and help to defend Khurda kingdom from the invading Muslim armies who either belonged to the Mughal Dynasty or the Golconda Sultanate. After consolidation of his authority over the regions of western Odisha and now parts of the state of Chattishgarh, Balarama Deva himself installed the idol of Goddess Samleswari as the head family deity which began the era of cultural rejuvenation in the region.\n\nAfter the death of the last hegemonic Gajapati Mukunda Deva in the Gohiratikri battlefield in 1568 AD, the Afghans and Mughals subsequently struggled for authority and an era of chaos had ensued.During the last quarter of the sixteenth century, Odisha was undergoing several political disturbances leading to the subsequent collapse of the central authority. The authority of the Gajapati kings of Odisha was starting to loose it's imperial status and the glorious title of 'Gajapati' had begun to get limited to the rulers of a very small region of today's Khurda, Puri, Nayagarh and Cuttack districts of coastal Odisha.Though Gajapati Kings lost their sovereignty,they remain the tutelary head and Odisha princely states and ancient Zamindaris establishes and flourished under Gajapati era.During the rule of Gajapati Ramachandra Deva of Khurda, the forces of the Afghans of Bengal invaded again and again while the Mughals closely contested them for control of the region through repeated clashes. As described in the Kosalananda Kavya, Balarama Deva was sent with a force of 32,000 infantry, 700 cavalry and 30 war elephants to assist the Gajapati king by his father Hiradhara Deva. Balarama Deva was instrumental in asserting the Independence of the Chauhan rule in the Patna state during this period. He also defeated the king of neighboring Bastar region who tried to take over the regions of western Odisha.\n\nThere are two different existing folklore which describes how Balarama Deva got to rule the northern part their ancestral kingdom around today's Sambalpur while his brother Narasimha Deva continued the rule from Patna. The first folklore speaks of Balarama Deva crossing the river Mayavati in the dark night to bring a nurse so that she could help his pregnant sister in law and the wife of Narasimha Deva who had gone to labor. His elder brother being very thankful gave him the northern part of his territory to rule. The second folklore narrates that there was an existing strife between the two brothers for accession to the throne when their mother intervened. She led both of them to a village called Kalapathar on the banks of river Ong and asked Narasimha to stand on the right bank of the river while Balarama was asked to stand on the left bank. She declared that the river would mark their boundary any attempt against it will be considered as a crime against her. In another case, the poem Jaya Chandrika written by Prahallad Dubey, the court poet of Sarangarh kingdom in the 18th Century, states that, Balarama Deva was fond of hunting and to fulfill his wishes he asked his mother for the region of Sambalpur which was situated on the bank of river Mahanadi and known for the diamond mines.\n\nThe neighboring Haihaya ruler Kalyan Sahai had declared himself as the overlord of forty eight princely states and forts which included large parts of western Odisha along with Patna. Due to the threat of conquest from the enemy and effective decentralized administration of the Chauhan kingdom, Balarama Deva was asked to practice his authority and guardianship separately in the northern areas by his ruling brother Narasimha Deva. The Haihaya threat never materialized once Balarama Deva effectively practiced his rule on the region. Eventually after the death of Narasimha Deva, the Patna state became unimportant due to the growing effectiveness of the newly founded Sambalpur state by Balarama Deva. The poem Jaya Chandrika describes the kingdom as Huma Desha where the river Jira flowed and the center of power was located at Bargarh. Eventually to strengthen his defensive position, Balarama shifted his capital first to Chaunrpur and then to Sambalpur on the banks of river Mahanadi.\n\nBalarama deva dealt first with the Ratanpur Haihaya threat by defeating the reigning king Lakshman Sahai after the death of Kalyan Sahai and conquered the neighboring regions of Raigarh, Sakti, Sarangarh and parts of Bargarh. The states of Surguja and Gangpur became feudatory states of Sambalpur. The Ganga kingdom of Bamanda also became a vassal state after it was conquered and Rama Chandra Deva was appointed as feudal king under the authority of Sambalpur. During his conquests, the Gangpur ruler gave away his daughter Kamala Kumari in marriage to Balarama Deva and also he subsequently married another self ruling princess of Surguja when the kingdom was defeated by him. During Balarama Deva the new state was secured with eighteen forts also popularly known as Atharagarh and one of the main fort itself was the Bargarh fort which was initially built or restored by Balarama Deva as center of his power. There were also thirteen divisions in his new state.\n\nAfter the death of his brother Narasimha Deva and again the death of the new successor Hamira Deva in a short span of three years, Balarama Deva sent his son Hridayanarayana Deva to rule the parent state of Patna. However, the widowed queen and the ministers complained against his rule. When the matters were investigated it was found that the corrupt ministers had created trouble in the practicing of effective authority by Hridayanarayana. Enraged by this event, Balarama expelled the ministers and the queen mother who later took shelter in the southern areas Nandpur.\n\nBalarama Deva had undertaken certain significant constructional and cultural restoration initiatives in his new kingdom. The foremost and the highly important step during his rule was to establish goddess Samleswari as the head deity of his state. Samleswari was adored by the local tribal population before in the region and their allegiance was won for himself due to this. It is also believed that the harvest festival of Nuakhai dedicated to goddess Samleswari, widely celebrated across western Odisha and neighboring regions was initiated by him. After defeating Surguja, he brought back an idol of Ananta Saya as trophy for his victory and build a temple at Sambalpur for the deity. At the height of his power the newly founded kingdom at Sambalpur extended from the river Mahanadi in the north to the river Ong in the south and from the Surangi in Phuljhar in the west to Huma on the Mahanadi in the east. He employed the Johoras for the collecting diamonds from the river bed of Mahanadi and granted them the villages of Hirakud and Junani. He granted lands to Brahmins and rebuilt or renovated the Huma temple. A temple for goddess Patneswari was built at Sambalpur during his rule.\n\nDespite the collapse of central authority and disintegration of Odisha in the sixteenth century caused by successive invasions and betrayal within the bureaucracy, Balarama Deva was able to secure and expand the parts of his kingdom. He ensured stability, security, law and order over his new kingdom by bringing together all his subjects. Balarama Deva is described in the poem Jaya Chandrika as the Garh Sambhari Chauhan King.\n"}
{"id": "21754398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21754398", "title": "Bali Aga", "text": "Bali Aga\n\nThe Bali Aga, Baliaga or Bali Mula are the indigenous people of Bali, predominantly located in the eastern part of the island, in Karangasem. They can also be found in north-western and central regions. Bali Aga people that are referred to as \"Bali Pergunungan\" (Mountain Balinese) are those that are located at Trunyan village. For the Trunyan Bali Aga people, the term \"Bali Aga\" (Mountain Balinese) is regarded as an insult with an additional meaning of \"the mountain people that are fools\"; therefore, they prefer the term \"Bali Mula\" (\"lit\" Original Balinese) instead.\n\nThe original inhabitants of Bali are said to have come from Bedulu village long before the Hindu-Javanese immigration wave. The legend is, there lived the last king of the Pejeng (an old Balinese kingdom), Sri Aji Asura Bumibanten, who had supernatural powers. He could cut off his head without feeling pain and put it back on again. One day, though, his head accidentally fell into a river and was swept away. One of his servants panicked and decided to quickly decapitate a pig and replace the king's head with the animal's head. Embarrassed, the king hid in a tall tower, denying any visitors. A small child discovered the secret and since then, the king became known as Dalem Bedulu, or \"He-who-changed-head\". Another explanation is that the name comes from the name \"Badahulu\" or \"the village upstream\". After the Pejeng kingdom, the Majapahit Empire rose to power.\n\nThe Bali Aga live in isolated areas in the mountains. Their relative isolation compared to the lowland Balinese had preserved some of the original Austronesian element, apparent in the Bali Aga architecture. Tourists wishing to visit certain villages must be careful due to the geography of the area. While visiting, it is also important to be respectful and quietly observe the preserved way of life the Bali Aga have.\n\nIn Tenganan, where tourism is more easily embraced and the people are said to be more friendly, a three-day festival called \"Udaba Sambah\" is held during the months of June or July. It is also to be noted that Tenganan prohibits divorce and polygamy, unlike other villages.\n\nThe Bali Aga speak their own dialect of the Balinese language. It dates back thousands of years and varies from village to village; the version spoken in the Tenganan village is different from the Trunyan village.\n\nAn important part of Bali Aga culture is the complex tie-dye technique used to make Bali's traditional \"geringsing\" double ikat. Bali's Tenganan village is the only village that today still produces \"geringsing\".\n\nIn \"geringsing\", both the cotton warp and weft threads are carefully dyed and cross-dyed before weaving; the finished pattern only emerges as the cloth is woven. According to textile expert John Guy, \"the ancestry of Balinese \"geringsing\" is far from clear, although some cloths display the unmistakable influence of \"patola\"\", the silk double ikats produced in Gujarat during the height of the Spice Trade (16-17C). Many of these imported cloths became inspiration for later locally-made textiles, but one theory is that the Balinese-made cloths were exported to India and copied there for production to Asian markets. Many have unique Hindu motifs such as a bird's eye view of a mandala with a sacred center from which everything radiates. Others feature designs clearly inspired by \"patola\", for example a design known as the frangipani flower (\"jepun\"). The palette of \"geringsing\" is typically red, neutral, and black. \"Geringsing\" are regarded as sacred cloths, \"ascribed supernatural properties, especially to assist in forms of healing, including exorcism.\" \"Gering\" means decease and \"sing\" means no.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1690258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690258", "title": "Bamum people", "text": "Bamum people\n\nThe Bamum, sometimes called Bamoum, Bamun, Bamoun, or Mum, are a Bantoid ethnic group of Cameroon with around 215,000 members.\n\nThe Bamum traditional religion placed great emphasis on ancestral spirits which were embodied in the skulls of the deceased ancestors. The eldest males of each lineage had possession of the skulls of deceased males. When moving a diviner must find an appropriate place to hold the skull. Despite these efforts some men's skulls remained unclaimed and their spirits are deemed restless. Ceremonies are thus done to placate these spirits. There is also respect for female skulls, but the details are less documented.\nThey also believed women made the soil fruitful, thus women did the planting and harvesting. Masks and representations of the head also had importance. In modern times, many Bamum are Muslim or Christian. King Ibrahim Njoya himself converted to Islam then to Christianity and then back to Islam after the Treaty of Versailles. He is said to have disliked abstaining from polygamy when Christian, and from alcohol when Muslim, so ultimately split the difference toward the end.\n\nBamum language (\"Shüpamom,\" pronounced , \"language Bamum\"; in the French tradition spelled \"Bamoun\") is one of the Benue–Congo languages of Cameroon, with approximately 215,000 speakers. The language is particularly well known for its original phonetic script, developed by Sultan Njoya and his palace circle around 1895. The development of the script spanned ideographic to syllabic systems, with the script's final and most prominent form known as \"A-ka-u-ku.\" This is not to be confused with another of Njoya's inventions, an artificial spoken language known as Shümom, which was devised after the script. Outsider observers in recent years have tended to confuse the script with the invented language. The French colonials destroyed Njoya's schools and forbade the teaching of the script, which fell into rapid decline and today hovers on the brink of extinction (the Bamum Scripts and Archives Project, in Foumban, is teaching the script to young people to spread literacy), but the Shümom language is spoken as a second language by many people and is taught on the radio throughout the Bamum kingdom. Cameroonian musicians Claude Ndam and Gerryland are native speakers of Bamum and use it in their music.\n\nNguon is a significant holiday for the Bamoun people. Recently, Ngoun has taken place every two years in late November-early December.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5658852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5658852", "title": "Barra brava", "text": "Barra brava\n\nBarra brava is a name for organized groups of supporters of football teams in Latin America. Their behavior is similar to European ultras and hooligan groups. It includes standing throughout the match, singing, and other enthusiastic behavior such as waving flags.\n\nThe phenomenon originated in Argentina in the 1950s and spread throughout the Americas. Similar groups in Mexico are called \"porras\" and \"torcidas organizadas\" in Brazil. Barras bravas are common in Uruguay, Bolivia, Peru, Chile and Colombia and have spread to other parts of the world, including the United States.\n\nGroups of Argentine fans that stood out for their fervour from the rest of supporters spontaneously began to appear during the 1920s. These groups were labeled \"Barras\" by the media; a term that is equivalent to the term gang in Argentina and Uruguay, but that in its original meaning, was used to describe an informal group of people without any relation to crime who meet regularly. One of those groups named \"La barra de la Goma\" (\"The \"barra\" of the rubber\"), was created in 1927. They supported the San Lorenzo de Almagro football club. The name comes from the rubber of bike inner tubes (filled with sand, and tied with wire at the ends) to attack rival fans. They would throw objects to their team's goalkeeper to bother him when he should intervene in the game.\n\nThe actions of this group were limited to stadiums, during home matches, and they did not follow the team to other cities. They did not intend to provoke violence, as it arose spontaneously usually during games that were difficult for their team, as a way to influence the score through intimidation of rival players and referees with insults and blunt objects. Occasionally they entered the pitch (playing field) and assaulted opposing players. They intimidated rival fans who tried to bother players on their team. At the end of the same decade, a few newspapers described this group as \"brave\" (Spanish for fierce).\n\nThe \"Barras\" became a traditional part of the Argentine football crowds and evolved until, in the mid-1950s, they started to receive financing from the football clubs to attend away matches. Their goals expanded to include provoking violence against rival players and fans, repelling police and defending against attacks by rival supporters. They thus became the first organised, violent, football support groups.\n\nArgentine journalist Amílcar Romero stated that, before the appearance of such groups, when a team played away, they were intimidated by rival fans. \"Barras bravas\" were a response to this pressure. Each club had its own \"barra brava\", financed by the club. These groups were given tickets and paid travel to the stadiums. Access to these benefits was controlled by the group's leadership. To obtain prestige, the member had to be violent.\n\nIn 1958, media and society noted existence of this groups after riots during a match between Vélez Sarsfield and River Plate (at José Amalfitani stadium) at which 19-year-old Alberto Mario Linker, was killed by police (he was hit in the chest by a tear gas grenade) when cops tried to disperse River Plate fans who were causing unrest. Newspaper La Razón denominated River Plate's organised supporter group as a \"Barra Fuerte\" (strong gang), differentiating them for the first time from the traditional \"barras\".\n\n\"Barra brava\" appeared in Argentine media, in the 1960s, but became a popular term in the 1980s.\n\nArgentina has the most dangerous organized fan groups in the world. In 2013 all visiting fans were banned from matches. Through August 2012 Argentine football has experienced 301 hooligan related deaths. Several such deaths and shootings were the result of rival factions within the same clubs.\n\nThese groups display and wave flags (that in Argentine football slang are called \"trapos\" -cloths-) and umbrellas (with team's colours), and use musical instruments such as bass drums and, since the mid-2000s, trumpets) to accompany their chants. They occupy terraces where viewers must stand. In all-seater stadiums (rare in Argentina and many other Latin American countries), \"barras bravas\" stand throughout the match.\n\nThe most characteristic flags are shaped like giant strips several meters in length (called \"trapos largos\" -long flags- or \"tirantes\" -suspenders-), that are deployed from the top of the terrace to the bottom. \"Barras bravas\" usually also have a flag with the name of the group.\n\nTraditionally, many members stand upon the crush barriers (\"paravalanchas\" -avalanche-stoppers- in Argentine slang) that are placed in terraces to prevent crushing. They hold a \"suspender\" with one or both hands (this was the purpose to make this flags shaped like strips), or to the body of someone else who is fastened to the flag, or even some supporter who is standing below (on a step).\n\nThey start and coordinate every chant and wave the most important and big flags. \"Barras Bravas\" always are located in the center of the terrace that occupy. When the group enters the terrace before the match, the center is traditionally left empty by the other fans (even if the terrace it is almost full), showing respect to the \"barra brava\".\n\nOriginally these groups were not numerous, violent, or powerful. Over the years, this changed. In some cases the \"barra brava\" decided who would be the club's chairman. Since the 1980s and 1990s, hooliganism has grown and some groups engaged in illegal activities such as extorting money from club leadership, players, and hawkers that work at the stadium. They also may participate in drug sales and thefts. They often provide services to political and union leaders who hire them as agitator groups (during rallies and mass meetings, that in Argentina traditionally have people chanting like football crowds, playing drums and even shooting firecrackers), goon squads (clashing with supporters of other political parties, unions or police during demonstrations, protests, rallies and strikes), bodyguards, etc.\n\nThey are funded by club leadership, which may give salaries to some members or even a percentage of the profits. Usually they are responsible for stadium security during non-football events.\nIn Argentina, in the 2000s they faced violent disputes among some of members for control of the group. A large percentage of deaths related to football since that time were related to internal disputes within \"barras bravas\". Some sell tickets on the black market for profit; a head of the River Plate barra had money equivalent to over 200,000 British pounds confiscated by the police in November 2018, leading perhaps to anti-Boca Juniors violence a day later.\n\nThe size of the \"barras brava\" is generally related to the level of the club's popularity. However, some clubs have big supporter groups even they are not generally popular. This usually occurs when the club has, at least, a relatively high popularity in a neighborhood. Group sizes range from a few dozen to more than 1,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25835677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25835677", "title": "Berber flag", "text": "Berber flag\n\nThe Berber flag () is a flag that has been adopted for the Berbers. It is currently used by Berber activists in 10 African countries. \n\nThe flag was inaugurated in Ouadhia, a town of Kabylia situated in Tizi Ouzou, a wilaya of Algeria, by an elder Algerian Kabylian \"veteran\" named Mohand Arav Bessaoud. He was considered a spiritual father of Berberism and was also a writer and an activist of the Algerian Revolution.\n\nIn the 1970s the Berber Academy (\"Agraw Imazighen\") proposed the first Berber flag. In 1998 the World Amazigh Congress made the flag official at Tafira on Las Palmas in the Canary Islands, which were formerly inhabited by the Guanches, an ancient Berber people.\n\nThe flag is composed of blue, green, and yellow horizontal bands of the same height, and a Tifinagh letter \"yaz\" or \"aza\".\n\nEach colour corresponds to an aspect of Tamazgha, the territory inhabited by Berbers in North Africa:\n\nThe \"yaz\" (ⵣ) symbolizes the \"free man\", which is the meaning of the Berber word \"amazigh\", the Berbers' own name for themselves (endonym). It is in red, the colour of life, and also the colour of resistance.\n\nThe Berber flag thus symbolizes the entire Amazigh people, living in harmony with their land, Tamazgha.\n\n"}
{"id": "33213918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33213918", "title": "Birifor language", "text": "Birifor language\n\nBirifor is a pair of Gur languages of Burkina Faso (Northern Birifor) and Ghana (Southern Birifor). There are a few thousand speakers of both varieties, which are not mutually intelligible, in Ivory Coast.\n"}
{"id": "546010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=546010", "title": "Charrúa", "text": "Charrúa\n\nThe Charrúa are an Amerindian, Indigenous People or Indigenous Nation of the Southern Cone in present-day Uruguay and the adjacent areas in Argentina (Entre Ríos) and Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul). They were a semi-nomadic people who sustained themselves mainly through hunting and gathering. Since resources were not permanent in every region, they would constantly be on the move. Rain, drought, and other environmental factors determined their movement. For this reason they are often called \"nomadas estacionales\"; which means seasonal nomads.\n\nThe life of the Charrúas before contact with the Spanish Colonists remains to a large extent a mystery. It is for this reason that most knowledge about the Charrúas comes from Spanish contact with them.\nChroniclers such as the Jesuit Pedro Lozano accused the Charrúan people of killing the Spanish explorer Juan Díaz de Solís during his 1515 voyage up the Río de la Plata. This was a crucial moment since it shows that the Charrúas were going to resist the Spanish Invaders. Following the arrival of European settlers, the Charrúa, along with the Chana, strongly resisted their territorial invasion. In the 18th and 19th centuries the Charrúa were confronted by cattle exploitation that strongly altered their way of life, causing famine and forcing them to rely on cows and sheep. However, these were in that epoch increasingly privatized . Malones (raids) were resisted by settlers who freely shot any indigenous people who were in their way.\n\nThis is a descriptive statement by Jose Imbelloni \"The skull is bulky and often presents a high bone thickness and significant weight, especially in the macrosomatic groups preserved in the south, the cheekbones are powerful and the chin is thick and protruding, the face is elongated and the nasal index leptorrino (narrow nose and long.) The construction of the skeleton is massive, at times enormous. Aside to this somewhat coarse macrosomatic canon, we must take into account the reciprocal proportions of the members, which point to a remarkable harmony. The athletic cut and balance of the muscular masses make the pámpido one of the most superb models of the human organism. With regard to physiognomy, there is almost no sexual dimorphism, and men are very little different from women. Current color of intense pigmentation, with bronzed reflections. Dark, hard and smooth hair.\" \n\nThe drastic demographic reduction of the Charrúa did not occur until the first president of Uruguay Fructuoso Rivera. Although Rivera initially maintained good relations with the Charrúa, the increasing dominance of the whites and desires of expansion led to hostilities. He therefore organized a genocide campaign known as \"La Campaña de Salsipuedes\" in 1831. This campaign was composed of three different attacks in three different places: \"El Paso del Sauce del Queguay\", \"El Salsipuedes\", and a passage known as \"La cueva del Tigre\". Legend has it that the first attack was a betrayal. The president Fructuoso Rivera knew the tribe leaders, and called them to his Barracks by the river later named Salsipuedes. He claimed that he needed their help to defend territory and that they should join together, however, once the Charrúas were drunk and off their guard, the Uruguayan soldiers attacked them. The following two attacks were carried out to eliminate the Charrúas that had escaped or had not been present.\nIt is said that since 11 April 1831, when the Salsipuedes (meaning \"Get-out-if-you-can\") campaign was launched by a group led by Bernabé Rivera, nephew of Fructuoso Rivera, the Charrúa were then officially claimed to be extinct.\n\nFour surviving Charrúa were captured at Salsipuedes. The directory of the Oriental School of Montevideo thought a nearly extinct race would spark the interest of French scientists and public. They were Senacua Sénaqué, a medicine man; Vaimaca-Pirú Sira, a warrior; and a young couple, Laureano Tacuavé Martínez and María Micaëla Guyunusa. All four were taken to Paris, France, in 1833, where they were exhibited to the public. The display was not a success and they all soon died in France, including a baby daughter born to Sira and Guyunusa, and adopted by Tacuavé. The child was named María Mónica Micaëla Igualdad Libertad by the Charrúa, yet she was filed by the French as Caroliné Tacouavé. A monumental sculpture, \"Los Últimos Charrúas\" was built in their memory in Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nSince the 1980s - after Uruguay's last dictatorship - a group of people have been affirming and vindicating their Charruan ancestry. In 1989, they gathered around Adench (Asociación de los descendientes de la Nación Charrúa), by then they self-recognized themselves as \"descendants\". In 2005, another organization was formed - CONACHA (Consejo de la Nación Charrúa) - where families came out of clandestinity and self-recognized themselves publicly as Charrúa.\n\nNot much is known about the Charrúa due to their cognitive erasure at an early time in Uruguayan history. The only surviving documents that concern the Charrúa are those of Spanish explorers, archaeologists and anthropologists. A new literature is currently emerging about their family oral history, ethnogenesis and activism.\n\nIt is thought that there are approximately between 160 thousand and 300 thousand individuals in Uruguay, Argentina, and Brazil today, that are descendants from surviving Charrúa.\n\nUruguayans refer to themselves as \"charrúa\" when in the context of a competition or battle against a foreign contingent. In situations in which Uruguayans display bravery in the face of overwhelming odds, the expression \"garra charrúa\" (\"Charrúan tenacity\") is used to refer to victory in the face of certain defeat.\n\nAfter Salsipuedes, the Charrúa were gradually dispossessed of their sovereignty while the new State was affirming its jurisdiction over the whole territory. According to the Argentine census of 2001, there are 676 Charrúa living in the province of Entre Ríos.\n\nThere is a Charrúa cemetery located in Piriápolis in the Maldonado Department.\n\nThe Uruguay national football team is nicknamed \"Los Charrúas\" and a local rugby side in Porto Alegre are also named after the nation (see: Charrua Rugby Clube)\n\nCharrua is also a name of a Brazilian military tank for troops transportation.\n\nIn 1888 was published \"Tabaré\", an epic poem by Juan Zorrilla de San Martín about a Charrúa and his love for a Spanish woman.\n\nThe rivuline \"Austrolebias charrua\" was named after them.\n\nA street of Montevideo in the neighbourhoods of Pocitos and Cordón is named Charrúa.\n\nIn August 1989 the Association of the Descendants of the Charrúa Nation was created to rescue, conserve, and promulgate the knowledge and presence of indigenous peoples in Uruguay.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2386348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2386348", "title": "Church of Scientology", "text": "Church of Scientology\n\nThe Church of Scientology is a multinational network and hierarchy of numerous ostensibly independent but interconnected corporate entities and other organizations devoted to the practice, administration and dissemination of Scientology, a new religious movement. The Church of Scientology International (CSI) is officially the Church of Scientology's parent organization, and is responsible for guiding local Scientology churches. At a local level, every church is a separate corporate entity set up as a licensed franchise and has its own board of directors and executives. The first Scientology church was incorporated in December 1953 in Camden, New Jersey by L. Ron Hubbard. Its international headquarters are located at the Gold Base, in an unincorporated area of Riverside County, California. The location at Gilman Hotsprings is private property and not accessible by the public. Scientology Missions International is under CSI and oversees Scientology missions, which are local Scientology organizations smaller than churches. The Church of Spiritual Technology (CST) is the organization which owns all the copyrights of the estate of L. Ron Hubbard.\n\nThe highest authority in the Church of Scientology is the Religious Technology Center (RTC). The RTC claims to only be the \"holder of Scientology and Dianetics trademarks\", but is in fact the main Scientology executive organization. RTC chairman David Miscavige is widely seen as the effective head of Scientology.\n\nAll Scientology management organizations are controlled exclusively by members of the Sea Org, which is a legally nonexistent paramilitary organization for the \"elite, innermost dedicated core of Scientologists\". David Miscavige is the highest-ranking Sea Org officer, holding the rank of captain.\n\nAlthough in some countries it has attained legal recognition as a religion, the movement has been the subject of a number of controversies, and has been accused by critics of being both a cult and a commercial enterprise.\n\nThe first Scientology church was incorporated in December 1953 in Camden, New Jersey by L. Ron Hubbard, his wife Mary Sue Hubbard, and John Galusha. By that time, the Hubbard Association of Scientologists International (HASI) had already been operating since 1952 and Hubbard himself had already been selling Scientology books and technologies. In 1953 he wrote to Helen O'Brien, who was managing the organization, asking her to investigate the \"religion angle\". Soon after, despite O'Brien's misgivings and resignation, he announced the religious nature of Scientology in a bulletin to all Scientologists, stressing its relation to the concept of Dharma. The first Church of Scientology opened in 1954 in Los Angeles.\n\nHubbard stated, \"A civilization without insanity, without criminals and without war, where the able can prosper and honest beings can have rights, and where man is free to rise to greater heights, are the aims of Scientology.\" After the formation of the Church of Scientology, Hubbard composed its creed. The Scientology creed emphasizes three key points: being free to enjoy religious expression, the idea that mental healing is inherently religious, and that healing of the physical body is in the spiritual domain.\n\nHubbard had official control of the organization until 1966 when this function was transferred to a group of executives. Although Hubbard maintained no formal relationship with Scientology's management, he remained firmly in control of the organization and its affiliated organizations.\n\nIn May 1986, subsequent to the sudden death of L. Ron Hubbard, David Miscavige, who was at that time the Commanding Officer of the Commodore's Messenger Organisation, assumed the position of Chairman of the Board of the Religious Technology Center (RTC), a non-profit corporation that administers the trademarked names and symbols of Dianetics and Scientology. Although RTC is a separate corporation from the Church of Scientology International, whose president and chief spokesperson is Heber Jentzsch, Miscavige is the effective leader of the movement.\n\nIn 1996, the Church of Scientology implemented the \"Golden Age of Tech\" (tech pertaining to the entire body of Scientology religious techniques) releasing a training program for Scientology auditors, while precisely following Hubbard's teachings. It was followed by the launch of \"The Golden Age of Knowledge\" in 2005, where Hubbard's announcements of milestones in the research and development of Dianetics and Scientology were released. Between 2005 and 2010, the church would complete its 25-year program to restore and verify the church's \"scriptures\". The church released the second phase of the Golden Age of Tech on November 2013, based on the original work of Hubbard. The Super Power Rundown a new component of auditing, was released in Clearwater, Florida.\n\nThe Church of Scientology promotes Scientology, a body of beliefs and related practices created by Hubbard, starting in 1952 as a successor to his earlier self-help system, Dianetics.\n\nScientology teaches that people are immortal spiritual beings who have forgotten their true nature. Scientology's central mythology developed around the original notion of the thetan. In Scientology, the thetan is the individual expression of \"theta\", described by Neusner as \"the cosmic source and life force\". The thetan is the true human identity, rendering humans as \"pure spirit and godlike\". The religion's mythology holds the belief that \"in the primordial past, thetans applied their creative abilities to form the physical universe\". Contrary to the biblical narrative that shows that the universe was created by a divine, sole creator, Scientology holds that \"the universe was created by theta in the form of individualized expressions\".\n\nThe story of Xenu is part of Scientologist teachings about extraterrestrial civilizations and alien interventions in Earthly events, collectively described as space opera by Hubbard. Its method of spiritual rehabilitation is a type of counseling known as \"auditing\", in which practitioners aim to consciously re-experience painful or traumatic events in their past, in order to free themselves of their limiting effects. Study materials and auditing courses are made available to members in return for specified donations. Scientology is legally recognized as a tax-exempt religion in the United States and other countries, and the Church of Scientology emphasizes this as proof that it is a bona fide religion.\n\nScientology describes itself as the study and handling of the spirit in relationship to itself, others, and all of life. According to the \"Encyclopedia of American Religions\", it is \"concerned with the isolation, description, handling and rehabilitation of the human spirit\". One purpose of Scientology, as stated by the Church of Scientology, is to become certain of one's spiritual existence and one's relationship to God, or the \"Supreme Being.\"\n\nOne of the major tenets of Scientology is that a human is an immortal alien spiritual being, termed a thetan, that is presently trapped on planet Earth in a physical \"meat body.\" Hubbard described these thetans in \"The Space Opera\" cosmogony. The thetan has had innumerable past lives and it is accepted in Scientology that lives preceding the thetan's arrival on Earth lived in extraterrestrial cultures. Descriptions of space opera incidents are seen as true events by Scientologists.\n\nScientology claims that its practices provide methods by which a person can achieve greater spiritual awareness. Within Scientology, progression from level to level is often called The Bridge to Total Freedom. Scientologists progress from \"Preclear\", to \"Clear\", and ultimately \"Operating Thetan\".\n\nScientologists are taught that a series of events, or incidents, occurred before life on earth. Scientologists also believe that humans have hidden abilities which can be unlocked.\n\nHubbard's image and writing are ubiquitous in Scientology churches. Churches built after Hubbard's death include a corporate-style office set aside for Hubbard's reincarnation, with a plaque on the desk bearing his name, and a pad of paper with a pen for him to continue writing novels. A large bust of Hubbard is placed in the chapel for Sunday services, and most sermons reference him and his writing.\n\nScientology organizations and missions exist in many communities around the world. Scientologists call their larger centers \"orgs\", short for \"organizations.\" The major Scientology organization of a region is known as a central org. The legal address of the Church of Scientology International is in Los Angeles, California, 6331 Hollywood Blvd, in the Hollywood Guaranty Building. The Church of Scientology also has several major headquarters, including:\n\nHubbard moved to England shortly after founding Scientology, where he oversaw its worldwide development from an office in London for most of the 1950s. In 1959, he bought Saint Hill Manor, a Georgian manor house near the Sussex town of East Grinstead. During Hubbard's years at Saint Hill, he traveled extensively, providing lectures and training in Australia, South Africa in the United States, and developing materials that would eventually become Scientology's \"core systematic theology and praxis\". While in Saint Hill, Hubbard worked with a staff of nineteen and urged others to join. In September 14, 1959, he wrote: \"Here, on half a hundred acres of lovely grounds in a mansion where we have not yet found all the bedrooms, we are handling the problems of administration and service for the world of Scientology. We are not very many here and as the sun never sets on Scientology we are very busy thetans.\"\n\nThe most important achievement of the Saint Hill period was Hubbard's execution of the Saint Hill Special Briefing Course (SHBC). It was delivered by Hubbard from March 1951 to December 1966 and \"is considered the single most comprehensive and rigorous training course for budding auditors in the church\". Scientology groups called \"Saint Hill Organizations\" located in Los Angeles, Clearwater (Florida), Copenhagen and Sydney still teach this course.\n\nThis became the worldwide headquarters of Scientology through the 1960s and 1970s. Hubbard declared Saint Hill to be the organization by which all other organizations would be measured, and he issued a general order (still followed today) for all organizations around the world to expand and reach \"Saint Hill size\". The Church of Scientology has announced that the next two levels of Scientology teaching, \"OT 9\" and \"OT 10\", will be released and made available to church members when all the major organizations in the world have reached Saint Hill size.\n\nThe \"worldwide spiritual headquarters\" of the Church of Scientology is known as \"Flag Land Base,\" located in Clearwater, Florida. It is operated by the Floridian corporation Church of Scientology Flag Service Organization, Inc..\n\nThe organization was founded in 1975 when a Scientology-founded group called \"Southern Land Development and Leasing Corp\" purchased the Fort Harrison Hotel for $2.3 million. Because the reported tenant was the \"United Churches of Florida\" the citizens and City Council of Clearwater did not realize that the building's owners were actually the Church of Scientology until after the building's purchase. Clearwater citizens' groups, headed by Mayor Gabriel Cazares, rallied strongly against Scientology establishing a base in the city (repeatedly referring to the organization as a cult), but Flag Base was established nonetheless.\n\nIn the years since its foundation, the Flag Land Base has expanded as the Church of Scientology has gradually purchased large amounts of additional property in the downtown and waterfront Clearwater area. Scientology's largest project in Clearwater has been the construction of a high-rise complex called the \"Super Power Building\", or Flag Building, which \"is the centerpiece of a 160-million construction campaign.\"\n\nThe Church of Scientology's CST Chairman of the Board, David Miscavige, led the opening and dedication of the 377,000-square-foot Flag Building on November 17, 2013. The multi-million cathedral is the new spiritual headquarters of Scientology. The fifth and sixth floor contain the \"Super Power Program\", which includes specially designed machines that Scientologists believe allow users to develop new abilities and experience enlightenment. The building also includes a dining facility, course rooms, offices and small rooms for \"auditing\" purposes.\n\nLos Angeles, California, has the largest concentration of Scientologists and Scientology-related organizations in the world, with the church's most visible presence being in the Hollywood district of the city. The organization owns a former hospital on Fountain Avenue which houses Scientology's West Coast headquarters, the Pacific Area Command Base — often referred to as \"PAC Base\" or \"Big Blue\", after its blue paint job. Adjacent buildings include headquarters of several internal Scientology divisions, including the American Saint Hill Organization, the Advanced Organization of Los Angeles, and the Church of Scientology of Los Angeles. All these organizations are integrated within the corporation Church of Scientology Western United States.\n\nThe Church of Scientology successfully campaigned to have the city of Los Angeles rename one block of a street running through this complex \"L. Ron Hubbard Way\". The street has been paved in brick.\n\nScientology's Celebrity Center International is located on Franklin Avenue, while the Association for Better Living and Education, Author Services and the official headquarters of the Church of Scientology International (in the Hollywood Guaranty Building) are all located on Hollywood Boulevard. The ground floor of the Guaranty Building also features the \"L. Ron Hubbard Life Exhibition\", a museum detailing his life that is open to the general public. The Celebrity Centre was acquired by the church as the Chateau Elysee in 1973, built to accommodate members in the arts, sports and government.\n\nAnother museum in the area is the \"\", located on Sunset Boulevard, which is operated by the church-affiliated Citizens Commission on Human Rights.\n\nThe headquarters of the Religious Technology Center, the entity that oversees Scientology operations worldwide, is located in unincorporated Riverside County, California, near Gilman Hot Springs and north of Hemet. The facility, known as Gold Base or \"Int\", is owned by Golden Era Productions and is the home of Scientology's media production studio, Golden Era Studios. Several Scientology executives, including David Miscavige, live and work at the base. Therefore, Gold Base is Scientology's international administrative headquarters.\n\nThe Church of Scientology bought the former Gilman Hot Springs resort, which had been popular with Hollywood figures, in 1978; the resort became Gold Base. The facilities at Gold Base have been toured by journalists several times. They are surrounded by floodlights and video observation cameras, and the compound is protected by razor wire.\nGold Base also has recreational facilities, including basketball, volleyball, and soccer facilities, an exercise building, a waterslide, a small lake with two beaches, and a golf course.\n\nThe Church of Scientology maintains a large base on the outskirts of Trementina, New Mexico, for the purpose of storing their archiving project: engraving Hubbard's writings on stainless steel tablets and encasing them in titanium capsules underground. An aerial photograph showing the base's enormous Church of Spiritual Technology symbols on the ground caused media interest and a local TV station broke the story in November 2005. According to a report in \"The Washington Post\", the organization unsuccessfully attempted to coerce the station not to air the story.\n\nThe cruise ship \"Freewinds\" was the only place the highest level of Scientology training (OT VIII) was offered. It cruised the Caribbean Sea, under the auspices of the Flag Ship Service Organization. The Freewinds was also used for other courses and auditing for those willing to spend extra money to get services on the ship. In April 2008, the \"Freewinds\" was sealed, and work stopped on refurbishments, due to \"extensive contamination\" with blue asbestos.\nAccording to a public announcement in 2017, the Church subsequently purchased another vessel on which to administer high-level Scientology training.\n\nStarting in 2003 Miscavige began encouraging local groups to purchase larger facilities to use as churches. These building are known within the Church of Scientology as \"Ideal Orgs\". This push has included the acquisition of many historic buildings by the Church. The Church has relied on parishioners to provide manual labor in renovations, such as through the Church's Rehabilitation Project Force. The Church's investment in expensive property at a time when church membership is dwindling has been described by former members and critics of the church as a money making tactic.\n\nIdeal Org opening events have been held in Johannesburg, South Africa; Rome, Italy; Malmo, Sweden; Dallas, Texas; Nashville, Tennessee; Washington D.C.; Phoenix, Arizona, Inglewood, California; Santa Ana, California; Las Vegas, Nevada; Brussels, Belgium; Florence, Kentucky; Clearwater, Florida; Sacramento, California; Melbourne, Australia; Mexico City, London, Quebec; Seattle, Washington; Pretoria, South Africa; Padova, Italy; Los Gatos, California; Hamburg, Germany; Milan, Italy; Atlanta, Georgia;, Dublin, Ireland. and Detroit, Michigan.\n\nThe church has also purchased buildings for the purposes of setting up Ideal Orgs, but which have been delayed or canceled. In the UK, delayed Ideal Orgs have included Birmingham (purchased in 2007), Gateshead (purchased 2007), Manchester (purchased 2006), and Plymouth (purchased 2009). The delays have prompted calls from locals for a compulsory purchase of the historically significant buildings, which remained largely vacant and undeveloped since purchase. The Birmingham org was opened in 2017.\n\nThe Golden Era Productions facility is located in the Hollywood Guaranty Building. It produces promotional materials for the Church of Scientology, as well as lectures, training films and other materials related to Hubbard.\n\nOccupying 185,000 square feet, the dissemination center prints Church magazines and other Scientology materials in 15 languages. The center has a custom-built web press with a 55 thousand pages per hour capacity. According to a Church press release, the center's warehousing and shipping department is fully automated, with the capability to address and handle half a million items per week. This system is connected \"directly into the US Postal Service, with a postal representative on site.\" The center also produces Scientology materials in various other languages as well as promotional materials and uniforms.\n\nThe Scientology Media Productions media center was inaugurated on May 28, 2016. The five-acre complex, on the intersection of Sunset and Hollywood in Hollywood, California, has a 150 foot communications tower marked with a Scientology symbol. Originally built in 1912, it was restored by the church for content creation and delivery in print, broadcast and online media. On 12 March 2018, Scientology Network started broadcasting on DirecTV as well as online at the Scientology Network website, and through AppleTV, Roku, fireTV, Chromecast, iTunes and Google Play.\n\nThere are many independently chartered organizations and groups which are staffed by Scientologists, and pay license fees for the use of Scientology technology and trademarks under the control of Scientology management. In some cases, these organizations do not publicize their affiliation with Scientology.\n\nThe Church of Scientology denies the legitimacy of any splinter groups and factions outside the official organization, and has tried to prevent independent Scientologists from using officially trademarked Scientology materials. Independent Scientologists, also known collectively as the \"Free Zone\" are referred to as squirrels within the Church. They are also classified by the Church of Scientology as suppressive persons (\"SPs\")—opponents or enemies of Scientology.\nHubbard himself stated in Ron's Journal '67 \"That there were only seven or eight Suppressive Persons on the planet...\"\n\nIn 2010, an exception to the rule was made specifically for the Nation of Islam, which is the only officially sanctioned external Dianetics organization and the first official non-Scientology Dianetics org since 1953. Minister Louis Farrakhan publicly announced his embracement of Dianetics, and has been actively promoting Dianetics, while stating he has not become a Scientologist. He has courted a relationship with the Church, and materials and certifications are still required to be purchased from the Church of Scientology, and are not independently produced.\n\nThe Scientology Missions International, the branch of the Church of Scientology devoted to Missions, was set up in 1981. According to the church's official website, the SMI is the \"mother church\" for all missions, with headquarters in Los Angeles. In 1983, there were forty missions. Currently, the church has grown to an estimated 3,200 missions, churches and groups.\n\nThe \"Sea Organization\" (often simply referred to as the \"Sea Org\") was incorporated under the name 'Operational Transport Committee' in the United Kingdom in 1966 for legal maritime registration purposes. The Sea Org is an unincorporated fraternal religious order founded in 1967 by Hubbard as he embarked on a series of voyages around the Mediterranean Sea in a small fleet of ships staffed by Scientologists and hired professional seamen. Hubbard—formerly a lieutenant junior grade in the US Navy—bestowed the rank of \"commodore\" of the vessels upon himself. The crew who accompanied him on these voyages became the foundation of the Sea Organisation. The very first members of 'The Sea Project' (1966–67) were high-level trained staff and OTIII completions personally chosen by L. Ron Hubbard from Saint Hill Manor and overseas church missions. The purpose was to establish an effective base of operations for the OTC research voyages to assist LRH to verify his discoveries and research into past-lives. Hubbard was also keen to see if he could recover any deposits of treasure that he believed that he had hidden in dozens of locations around the Mediterranean region. Teams of divers and metal-detectorists were dispatched to remote locations to dig for these alleged deposits. There is evidence of some success in locating identified targets, but only two probable eye-witness testimonies of any artifacts being recovered. One from under a temple complex on Sicily and another from an underwater temple at Carthage. Witnesses have claimed to have seen small craft unloading gold bullion onto the 'Athena' vessel and later seen in Hubbard's personal hold aboard The Apollo Flag ship in 1968 by staff members. (Sources: 'Mission Into Time' and 'Source\" magazine. (Issue 9).\n\nThe Sea Org is described by the church as forming an elite group of the most dedicated Scientologists, who are entrusted with the international management of Scientology and upper level churches such as the Advanced Organization Los Angeles, American Saint Hill Organization, Flag Service Organization and Celebrity Center International. Sea Org members are also in charge of the upper levels of Operating Thetan (OT) training. The organization is known as the \"monastic wing of Scientology.\"\n\nScientologists who are qualified to do so are often encouraged to join the Sea Org, which involves a lifetime commitment to Scientology organizations in exchange for room and board, training and auditing, and a small weekly allowance. Members sign an agreement pledging their loyalty and allegiance to Scientology for \"the next billion years,\" committing their future lifetimes to the Sea Org. The Sea Org's motto is \"Revenimus\" (or \"We Come Back\").\n\nCritics of Scientology have spoken out against the disciplinary procedures and policies of the Sea Org, which have been a source of controversy since its inception and variously described as abusive and illegal. Former Sea Org members have stated that punishments in the late 1960s and early 1970s included confinement in hazardous conditions such as the ship's chain locker.\n\nIn 1974, Hubbard established the Rehabilitation Project Force (or RPF) as a subunit of the Sea Org, in order to provide a \"second chance\" to members whose offenses were considered severe enough to warrant expulsion. RPF members are paired up and help one another for five hours each day with spiritual counseling to resolve the issues for which they were assigned to the program. They also spend 8 hours per day doing physical labor that will benefit the church facility where they are located. On verification of their having completed the program they are then given a Sea Org job again.\n\nIn practice, there have even been reports of child labor and for considerably longer than eight hours a day. For example, Jenna Miscavige Hill, niece of David Miscavige and author of \"Beyond Belief: My Secret Life Inside Scientology and My Harrowing Escape\", has stated that as a child she often worked 14 hours a day and only got to see her parents once a week, and sometimes even more seldom.\n\nThe Church of Scientology began its \"Volunteer Ministers\" program as a way to participate in community outreach projects. Volunteer Ministers travel to the scenes of major disasters in order to provide assistance with relief efforts. According to critics, these relief efforts consist of passing out copies of a pamphlet authored by Hubbard entitled \"The Way to Happiness\", and engaging in a method said to calm panicked or injured individuals known in Scientology as a \"touch assist.\" Accounts of the Volunteer Ministers' effectiveness have been mixed, and touch assists are not supported by scientific evidence.\n\nAround 1982 all of the Hubbard's intellectual property was transferred to a newly formed entity called the Church of Spiritual Technology (CST) and then licensed to the Religious Technology Center (RTC) which, according to its own publicity, exists to safeguard and control the use of the Church of Scientology's copyrights and trademarks.\n\nThe RTC employs lawyers and has pursued individuals and groups who have legally attacked Scientology or who are deemed to be a legal threat to Scientology. This has included breakaway Scientologists who practice Scientology outside the central church and critics, as well as numerous government and media organizations. This has helped to maintain Scientology's reputation for litigiousness (see Scientology and the legal system).\n\nFounded in 1989, the Association for Better Living and Education (ABLE) is an umbrella organization that administers six of Scientology's social programs:\n\nThe Citizens' Commission on Human Rights (CCHR), co-founded with Thomas Szasz in 1969, is an activist group whose stated mission is to \"eradicate abuses committed under the guise of mental health and enact patient and consumer protections.\" It has been described by critics as a Scientology front group.\n\nMany other Scientologist-run businesses and organizations belong to the umbrella organization World Institute of Scientology Enterprises (WISE), which licenses the use of Hubbard's management doctrines, and circulates directories of WISE-affiliated businesses. WISE requires those who wish to become Hubbard management consults to complete training in Hubbard's administrative systems; this training can be undertaken at any Church of Scientology, or at one of the campuses of the Hubbard College of Administration, which offers an Associate of Applied Science Degree.\n\nIn order to facilitate the continued expansion of Scientology, the Church has made efforts to win allies in the form of powerful or respected people.\n\nThough it has attained some credibility as a religion in many countries, Scientology has also been described as both a cult and a commercial enterprise. Some of the Church's actions also brought scrutiny from the press and law enforcement. For example, it has been noted to engage in harassment and abuse of civil courts to silence its critics, by identifying as Fair Game people it perceives as its enemies.\n\nIn 1979, several Scientology members were convicted for their involvement in the church's Operation Snow White, the largest theft of government documents in U.S. history. Scientologists were also convicted of fraud, manslaughter and tampering with witnesses in French cases, malicious libel against lawyer Casey Hill and espionage in Canada.\n\nIn his book \"World Religions in America\", religious scholar Jacob Neusner states that Scientology's \"high level of visibility\" may be perceived as \"threatening to established social institutions\".\n\nThe film Going Clear, based on the book by the same name, also documents the controversies surrounding the organization.\n\nFrom 1952 until 1966, Scientology was administered by an organization called the Hubbard Association of Scientologists (HAS), established in Arizona on September 10, 1952. In 1954, the HAS became the HASI (HAS International). The Church of Scientology was incorporated in California on February 18, 1954, changing its name to \"The Church of Scientology of California\" (CSC) in 1956. In 1966, Hubbard transferred all HASI assets to CSC, thus gathering Scientology under one tax-exempt roof. In 1967, the IRS stripped all US-based Scientology entities of their tax exemption, declaring Scientology's activities were commercial and operated for the benefit of Hubbard. Controversy followed the church on those years, but its growth continued in the 1960s. New churches were formed in Paris (1959), Denmark (1968), Sweden (1969), and Germany (1970). In the 1970s the religion spread through Europe: in Austria (1971), Holland (1972), Italy (1978), and Switzerland (1978). Centers of Scientology were in 52 countries by the time the 80s came in and grew to 74 by 1992. The church sued and lost repeatedly for 26 years trying to regain its tax-exempt status. The case was eventually settled in 1993, at which time the church paid $12.5 million to the IRS—greatly less than IRS had initially demanded—and the IRS recognized the church as a tax-exempt nonprofit organization. In addition, Scientology also dropped more than fifty lawsuits against the IRS when this settlement was reached. Scientology cites its tax exemption as proof the United States government accepts it as a religion. In January 2009, removal of the tax exemption was rated as number 9 in items for the incoming Barack Obama administration to investigate, as determined in an internet poll run by the presidential transition team soliciting public input for the incoming administration. The U.S. State Department has criticized Western European nations for discrimination against Scientologists in its published annual International Religious Freedom report, based on the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998.\n\nIn some countries Scientology is treated legally as a commercial enterprise, and not as a religion or charitable organization. In early 2003, in Germany, The Church of Scientology was granted a tax-exemption for the 10% license fees sent to the US. This exemption, however, is related to a German-American double-taxation agreement, and is unrelated to tax-exemption in the context of charities law. In several countries, public proselytizing undergoes the same restrictions as commercial advertising, which is interpreted as persecution by Scientology.\n\nAlthough the religious nature of Scientology has been questioned both in the United States and around the world, Scientology has been acknowledged as a new religion as manifested in the Church's court victories and the gain of religious rights and privileges that are exclusive to legally established religious bodies.\n\nUnlike many well-established religious organizations, Scientology maintains strict control over its names, symbols, religious works and other writings. The word \"Scientology\" (and many related terms, including \"L. Ron Hubbard\") is a registered trademark. Religious Technology Center, the owner of the trademarks and copyrights, takes a hard line on people and groups who attempt to use it in ways unaffiliated with the official Church (see Scientology and the legal system).\n\nL. Ron Hubbard appointed Mary Sue Hubbard to take control of certain aspects of legal protection for the CoS in 1968 and the Office of The Guardian was created with its head office situated at Saint Hill Manor. Under The Guardian's Office (later renamed the Office of Special Affairs or OSA), Church members and contracted staff from Bureau One later organized and committed one of the largest penetration of United States federal agencies ever perpetrated by an organization not affiliated with a foreign government (that is, one such as the KGB). This operation was named Operation Snow White by Hubbard. In the trial which followed the discovery of these activities the prosecution described their actions thus:\nThe Church has also in the past made use of aggressive tactics in addressing those it sees as trying to suppress them, known as Suppressive Persons (SPs) first outlined by Hubbard as part of a policy called fair game. It was under this policy that Paulette Cooper was targeted for having authored \"The Scandal of Scientology\", a 1970 exposé book about the Church and its founder. This action was known as Operation Freakout. Using blank paper known to have been handled by Cooper, Scientologists forged bomb threats in her name. When fingerprints on them matched hers, the Justice Department began prosecution, which could have sent Cooper to prison for a lengthy term. The Church's plan was discovered at the same time as its Operation Snow White actions were revealed. All charges against Cooper were dismissed, though she had spent more than $20,000 on legal fees for her defense.\n\nOn January 22, 2013, attorneys for the organization, as well as some of its members, reacted toward the CNN News Group for its airing of a story covering the release of a book published by a former member, entitled 'Going Clear', published earlier the same year. CNN News Group then chose to publish the reactionary correspondence, with confidential information redacted, on its web site.\n\nOf these activities the current Church laments:\n\nAccording to a 1990 \"Los Angeles Times\" article, in the 1980s the Los Angeles branch largely switched from using church members in harassment campaigns to using private investigators, including former and current Los Angeles police officers. The reason seemed to be that this gave the church a layer of protection.\n\nThe Scientology organization has continued to aggressively target people it deems suppressive. In 1998, regarding its announcement that it had hired a private investigator to look into the background of a \"Boston Herald\" writer who had written a series on the church, Robert W. Thornburg, dean of Marsh Chapel at Boston University, said, \"No one I know goes so far as to hire outsiders to harass or try to get intimidating data on critics. Scientology is the only crowd that does that.\" It has apparently continued as recently as 2010. In 2007 when BBC journalist John Sweeney was making \"Scientology and Me\", an investigative report about the Church and was the subject of harassment: Sweeny subsequently made a follow up documentary, \"The Secrets of Scientology\", in 2010 during which he was followed and filmed on multiple occasions and one of his interviewees was followed back to his home.\n\nSome key activities of the Church of Scientology carry risks for members, and the deaths of some Scientologists have brought attention to the Church both due to the circumstances of their demises and their relationship with Scientology possibly being a factor. In 1995, Lisa McPherson was involved in a minor automobile accident while driving on a Clearwater, Florida street. Following the collision, she exited her vehicle, stripped naked and showed further signs of mental instability, as noted by a nearby ambulance crew that subsequently transported her to a nearby hospital. Hospital staff decided that she had not been injured in the accident, but recommended keeping her overnight for observation. Following intervention by fellow Scientologists, McPherson refused psychiatric observation or admission at the hospital and checked herself out against medical advice after a short evaluation. She was taken to the Fort Harrison Hotel, a Scientology retreat, to receive a Church sanctioned treatment called Introspection Rundown. She had previously received the Introspection Rundown in June of that year. She was locked in a room for 17 days, where she died. Her appearance after death was that of someone who had been denied water and food for quite some time, being both underweight and severely dehydrated. Additionally, her skin was covered with over one hundred insect bites, presumably from cockroaches. The state of Florida pursued criminal charges against the Church. The Church has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, and now makes members sign a waiver before Introspection Rundown specifically stating that they (or anyone on their behalf) will not bring any legal action against the organization over injury or death. These charges attracted press coverage and sparked lawsuits. Eight years later, Elli Perkins, another adherent to Scientology's beliefs regarding psychiatry, was stabbed to death by her mentally disturbed son. Though Elli Perkins's son had begun to show symptoms of schizophrenia as early as 2001, the Perkins family chose not to seek psychiatric help for him and opted instead for alternative remedies sanctioned by Scientology. The death of Elli Perkins at the hands of a disturbed family member, one whose disease could have been treated by methods and medications banned by Scientology, again raised questions in the media about the Church's methods.\n\nIn addition, the Church has been implicated in kidnapping members who have recently left the church. In 2007, Martine Boublil was kidnapped and held for several weeks against her will in Sardinia by four Scientologists. She was found on January 22, 2008, clothed only in a shirt. The room she was imprisoned in contained refuse and an insect infested mattress.\n\nOn Friday March 28, 2008, Kaja Bordevich Ballo, daughter of Olav Gunnar Ballo, Norwegian parliament member and vice president of the Norwegian Odelsting, took a Church of Scientology personality test while studying in Nice. Her friends and co-inhabitants claim she was in good spirits and showed no signs of a mental breakdown, but the report from the Church of Scientology said she was \"depressed, irresponsible, hyper-critical and lacking in harmony\". A few hours later she committed suicide by jumping from her balcony at her dorm room leaving a note telling her family she was sorry for not \"being good for anything\". The incident has brought forward heavy criticism against the Church of Scientology from friends, family and prominent Norwegian politicians. Inga Marte Thorkildsen, parliament member, went as far as to say \"Everything points to the scientology cult having played a direct role in making Kaja choose to take her own life\".\n\nMembers of the public entering a Scientology center or mission are offered a \"free personality test\" called the Oxford Capacity Analysis by Scientology literature. The test, despite its name and the claims of Scientology literature, has no connection to Oxford University or any other research body. Scientific research into three test results came to the conclusion that \"we are forced to a position of skepticism about the test's status as a reliable psychometric device\" and called its scientific value \"negligible\".\n\nFurther proselytization practices - commonly called \"dissemination\" of Scientology - include information booths, flyers and advertisement for free seminars, Sunday Services in regular newspapers and magazines, personal contacts and sales of books.\n\nRecent legal actions involving Scientology's relationship with its members (see Scientology controversy) have caused the organization to publish extensive legal documents that cover the rights granted to followers. It has become standard practice within the organization for members to sign lengthy legal contracts and waivers before engaging in Scientology services, a practice that contrasts greatly with almost every mainstream religious organization. In 2003, a series of media reports examined the legal contracts required by Scientology, which state, among other things, that followers deny any psychiatric care their doctors may prescribe to them.\n\nIt is difficult to obtain reliable membership statistics. The International Association of Scientologists (IAS), the official Church membership system since 1984, has never released figures. Church spokespersons either give numbers for their countries or a worldwide figure. Some national censuses have recently included questions about religious affiliations, though the United States Census Bureau states that it is not the source for information on religion.\n\nIn 2007, the German national magazine \"Der Spiegel\" reported about 8 million members worldwide, about 6,000 of them in Germany, with only 150-200 members in Berlin. In 1993, a spokesperson of Scientology Frankfurt had mentioned slightly more than 30,000 members nationwide.\n\nThe organization has said that it has anywhere from eight million to fifteen million members worldwide. Derek Davis stated in 2004 that the Church organization has around 15 million members worldwide. Religious scholar J. Gordon Melton has said that the church's estimates of its membership numbers are exaggerated: \"You're talking about anyone who ever bought a Scientology book or took a basic course. Ninety-nine percent of them don't ever darken the door of the church again.\" Melton has stated that If the claimed figure of 4 million American Scientologists were correct, \"they would be like the Lutherans and would show up on a national survey\".\n\nThe \"Scientologists Online\" website presents \"over 16,000 Scientologists On-Line\".\n\nStatistics from other sources:\n\nThe Church of Scientology and its large network of corporations, non-profits and other legal entities are estimated to make around 500 million US dollars in annual revenue.\n\nScientologists can attend classes, exercises or counseling sessions for a set range of \"fixed donations\"; however, membership without courses or auditing is possible. According to a sociological report entitled \"Scientology: To Be Perfectly Clear\", progression between levels above \"clear\" status cost $15,760.03 in 1980 () (without including additional special treatments). Scientologists can choose to be audited by a fellow Scientologist rather than by a staff member.\n\nCritics say it is improper to fix a donation for religious service; therefore the activity is non-religious. Scientology points out many classes, exercises and counseling may also be traded for \"in kind\" or performed cooperatively by students for no cost, and members of its most devoted orders can make use of services without any donations bar that of their time. A central tenet of Scientology is its Doctrine of Exchange, which dictates that each time a person receives something, he or she must give something back. By doing so, a Scientologist maintains \"inflow\" and \"outflow\", avoiding spiritual decline.\n\nWhile a number of governments now give the Church of Scientology protections and tax relief as an officially recognized religion, other sources describe the Church as a pseudoreligion or a cult. Sociologist Stephen Kent published at a Lutheran convention in Germany that he likes to call it a transnational corporation.\n\nEarly official reports in countries such as the United Kingdom (1971), South Africa (1972), Australia (1965) and New Zealand (1969) have yielded unfavorable observations and conclusions.\n\nThere is currently no legal restriction in Australia on the practice of Scientology. In 1983 the High Court of Australia dealt with the question whether the Church of Scientology is a religious institution and as such not subject to payroll tax. The Court unanimously confirmed the Church of Scientology to be a religious institution.\n\nOn November 18, 2009 the Church came under fire from an Independent senator in the Commonwealth Parliament, Nick Xenophon. Under parliamentary privilege in the Senate, Xenophon declared that the Church of Scientology is a criminal organization.\n\nIn September 2007, a Belgian prosecutor announced that they had finished an investigation of Scientology and said they would probably bring charges. The church said the prosecutor's public announcement falsely suggested guilt even before a court could hear any of the charges. In December 2012, Belgian officials completed their file on Scientology and brought charges of extortion, illegal medicine, various breaches of privacy, and fraud.\n\nIn France, a parliamentary report classified Scientology as a dangerous cult. On November 22, 1996, the leader of the Lyons Church of Scientology, Jean-Jacques Mazier, was convicted of fraud and involuntary homicide and sentenced to eighteen months in prison for his role in the death of a member who committed suicide after going deeply into debt to pay for Scientology auditing sessions. Fourteen others were convicted of fraud as well. In 2009, members of the church were sued for fraud and practicing pharmacology without a license, and the Church was convicted of fraud in October 2009, being fined €600,000, with additional fines and suspended prison sentences for four officers.\n\nIn an interview on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation current affairs radio program \"The Current\" with Hana Gartner, former high-ranking Scientology official Mark Rathbun commented that the decision to convict the Church of Scientology of fraud in France would not have a significant impact on the organization. \"On the France thing I don't think that's going to have any lasting impact, simply because they got a nine hundred thousand dollar fine I think - which is like chump change to them. They've got literally nearly a billion dollars set aside in a war chest,\" said Rathbun.\n\nIn Germany, official views of Scientology are particularly skeptical. In Germany it is seen as a totalitarian anti-democratic organization and is under observation by national security organizations due to, among other reasons, suspicion of violating the human rights of its members granted by the German Constitution, including Hubbard's pessimistic views on democracy vis-à-vis psychiatry and other such features. In December 2007, Germany's interior ministers said that they considered the goals of Church of Scientology to be in conflict with the principles of the nation's constitution and would seek to ban the organization. The plans were quickly criticised as ill-advised. The plans to ban Scientology were finally dropped in November 2008, after German officials found insufficient evidence of illegal activity.\n\nThe legal status of the Church of Scientology in Germany is still awaiting resolution; some courts have ruled that it is a business, others have affirmed its religious nature. The German government has affirmed that it does not consider the Church of Scientology to be a religious community.\n\nAs in most European countries, the Church of Scientology is not officially recognized in Ireland as a charitable organization, but it is free to promote Scientology beliefs. The Irish government has not invited the Church of Scientology to national discussions on secularization by the Religious Council of Ireland. The meetings were attended by Roman Catholic bishops, representatives of the Church of Ireland, Ireland's Chief Rabbi, and Muslim leaders.\n\nIn Israel, according to Israeli professor of psychology Benjamin Beit-Hallahmi, \"in various organizational forms, Scientology has been active among Israelis for more than thirty years, but those in charge not only never claimed the religion label, but resisted any such suggestion or implication. It has always presented itself as a secular, self-improvement, tax-paying business.\" Those \"organizational forms\" include a Scientology Organization in Tel Aviv. Another Israeli Scientology group called \"The Way to Happiness\" (or \"Association for Prosperity and Security in the Middle East\") works through local Scientologist members to promote The Way to Happiness. An Israeli CCHR chapter runs campaigns against perceived abuses in psychiatry. Other Scientology campaigns, such as \"Youth for Human Rights International\" are active as well. There is also an ultra-Orthodox Jewish group that opposes Scientology and other cults or missionary organizations in Israel, Lev L'Achim, whose anti-missionary department in 2001 provided a hotline and other services to warn citizens of Scientology's \"many types of front organizations\".\n\nOn October 17, 2013, a Dutch court ruled that \"the Amsterdam arm of Scientology is a charitable organization and exempt from paying taxes.\" DutchNews.nl reported that the court ruled \"The Scientology Church in Amsterdam be treated in the same way as other church and faith-based organisations and allowed to claim tax breaks\". The appeal court also ruled that \"Scientology's classes don't differ significantly from what other spiritual organizations do, or can do.\" The court noted \"Scientology movement's training programmes are not the same as those offered by commercial companies because people who cannot afford them pay a reduced fee or get them free\" and that \"the courses are aimed at spiritual and theoretical enlightenment.\"\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights ruled in April 2007 that Russia's denial to register the Church of Scientology as a religious community was a violation of Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights (freedom of assembly and association) read in the light of Article 9 (freedom of thought, conscience and religion)\". In July 2007, the St. Petersburg City Court closed down that city's Scientology center for violating its charter.\n\nOn October 31, 2007, the National Court in Madrid issued a decision recognizing that the National Church of Scientology of Spain should be entered in the Registry of Religious Entities.\nThe administrative tribunal of Madrid's High Court ruled that a 2005 justice ministry decision to scrap the church from the register was \"against the law.\" Responding to a petition filed by the church, the ruling said that no documents had been presented in court to demonstrate it was anything other than a religious entity.\n\nThe UK government's 1971 official report into Scientology was highly critical, but concluded that it would be unfair to ban the Church outright. The UK government does not classify the Church of Scientology as a religious institution and it is not a registered charity. However, in 2000, the Church of Scientology was exempted from UK value added tax on the basis that it is a not-for-profit body.\n\nIn December 2013, the UK Supreme Court officially ruled that Scientology is a religion, in response to a 5-year legal battle by Scientologist Louisa Hodkin to marry at the Church of Scientology chapel in central London. With the new ruling, the Registrar General of Births, Marriages and Deaths now recognize weddings performed within Scientology chapels and redefined religion so that it was \"not... confined to those with belief in a supreme deity.\"\n\nIn 1979 Hubbard's wife, Mary Sue Hubbard, along with ten other highly placed Scientology executives were convicted in United States federal court regarding Operation Snow White, and served time in an American federal prison. Operation Snow White involved infiltration, wiretapping and theft of documents in government offices, most notably those of the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS).\n\nIn 1993, however, the United States IRS recognized Scientology as a \"non-profit charitable organization,\" and gave it the same legal protections and favorable tax treatment extended to other non-profit charitable organizations. A \"New York Times\" article says that Scientologists paid private investigators to obtain compromising material on the IRS commissioner and blackmailed the IRS into submission.\n\nIn a 2001 legal case involving a married couple attempting to obtain the same deduction for charity to a Jewish school, it was stated by Judge Silverman:\n\nTo date (2008) such a suit is not known to have been filed. In further appeal in 2006, the US Tax Court again rejected couple's deduction, stating: \n\nHowever, this matter is still ongoing. On February 8, 2008, three judges in the US 9th Circuit Court of Appeals \"expressed deep skepticism\" over the IRS's position that treatment of Scientology is \"irrelevant to the deductions the Orthodox Jews, Michael and Marla Sklar, took for part of their children's day school tuition and for after-school classes in Jewish law\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1870519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870519", "title": "Corchorus", "text": "Corchorus\n\nCorchorus is a genus of about 40–100 species of flowering plants in the family Malvaceae, native to tropical and subtropical regions throughout the world.\n\nDifferent common names are used in different contexts, with jute applying to the fiber produced from the plant, and mallow-leaves for the leaves used as a vegetable.\n\nThe plants are tall, usually annual herbs, reaching a height of 2–4 m, unbranched or with only a few side branches. The leaves are alternate, simple, lanceolate, 5–15 cm long, with an acuminate tip and a finely serrated or lobed margin. The flowers are small (2–3 cm diameter) and yellow, with five petals; the fruit is a many-seeded capsule.\n\nThe genus \"Corchorus\" is classified under the subfamily Grewioideae of the family Malvaceae. It contains around 40 to 100 species.\n\nThe genus \"Oceanopapaver\", previously of uncertain placement, has recently been synonymized under \"Corchorus\". The name was established by Guillaumin in 1932 for the single species \"Oceanopapaver neocaledonicum\" Guillaumin from New Caledonia. The genus has been classified in a number of different families including Capparaceae, Cistaceae, Papaveraceae, and Tiliaceae. The putative family name \"Oceanopapaveraceae\" has occasionally appeared in print and on the web but is a nomen nudum and has never been validly published nor recognised by any system of plant taxonomy.\n\nThe genus \"Corchorus\" was first described by Linnaeus in his great work \"Species Plantarum\" (1753). It is derived from the Ancient Greek word κόρχορος or κόρκορος (\"korkhoros\" or \"korkoros\") which referred to a wild plant of uncertain identity, possibly jute or wild asparagus.\n\nThe fibers from \"Corchorus\" (known as jute) are the most widely cultivated vegetable fiber after cotton.\n\n\"Corchorus\" leaves are consumed in the cuisines of various countries. \"Corchorus olitorius\" is used mainly in the cuisines of southern Asia, the Middle East, North Africa and West Africa, \"Corchorus capsularis\" in Japan and China. It has a mucilaginous (somewhat \"slimy\") texture, similar to okra, when cooked. The seeds are used as a flavouring, and a herbal tea is made from the dried leaves. The leaves of \"Corchorus\" are rich in betacarotene, iron, calcium, and vitamin C. The plant has an antioxidant activity with a significant α-tocopherol equivalent vitamin E.\n\nIn North Africa and the Middle East, the young leaves of \"Corchorus\" species are known in Arabic as \"malukhiyah\" and are used as green leafy vegetables . \"Malukhiyah\" is eaten widely in Egypt and some consider it the Egyptian national dish. It is featured in cuisines from Lebanon, Palestine, Syria, Jordan and Tunisia. In Turkey and Cyprus, the plant is known as \"molohiya\" or \"molocha\" and is usually cooked into a kind of chicken stew. The leaves of \"Corchorus\" have been a staple Egyptian food since the time of the Pharaohs and it is from there that it gains its recognition and popularity. Varieties of mallow-leaves stew with rice is a well known Middle Eastern cuisine.\n\nIn Nigerian cuisine, especially amongst the Yorubas, it is commonly used in a stew known as \"ewedu\", a condiment to other starch-based foods such as \"amala\" or added with gbegiri a local nigeria soup. In Northern Nigeria it is known as \"Ayoyo\". They use it to cook a sauce called (\"Miyan Ayoyo\") which is commonly served with Tuwon Masara or Tuwon Allebo.\n\nIn Ghana, it is mostly eaten by the people in the North and it is called ayoyo. It is mostly eaten with Tuozaafi (food prepared with cornflour).\n\nIn Sierra Leone it is known as \"krain krain\" (or \"crain crain\") and is cooked as stew. The stew is usually eaten with rice or \"foofoo\" (a traditional food made from cassava).\n\nJute leaves are also consumed among the Luhya people of Western Kenya, where it is commonly known as \"mrenda\" or \"murere\". It is eaten with starchy foods like \"ugali\", a staple for most communities in Kenya. In Northern Sudan it is called \"khudra\", meaning \"green\" in Sudanese Arabic. The Songhai people of Mali call it \"fakohoy\".\n\nIn India, it is locally known as \"nalta sag\". It is a favorite food during the summer months, especially in Sambalpur and the western part of Odisha. Usually it is lightly sauteed and eaten along with rice or rice gruel.\n\nIn the Philippines, \"C. olitorius\" is known as \"saluyot\". It is commonly consumed as a leafy vegetable together with bamboo shoots.\n\nIn Thai cuisine, the leaves of the \"Corchorus olitorius\" (locally known as \"bai po\"; ) are eaten blanched, together with plain rice congee. The taste resembles that of spinach and samphire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2666669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2666669", "title": "Countertrade", "text": "Countertrade\n\nCountertrade means exchanging goods or services which are paid for, in whole or part, with other goods or services, rather than with money. A monetary valuation can however be used in countertrade for accounting purposes. In dealings between sovereign states, the term bilateral trade is used.\n\nThere are six main variants of countertrade:\n\n\n\nCountertrade also occurs when countries lack sufficient hards currency, or when other types of market trade are impossible.\n\nIn 2000, India and Iraq agreed on an \"oil for wheat and rice\" barter deal, subject to United Nations approval under Article 50 of the UN Persian Gulf War sanctions, that would facilitate 300,000 barrels of oil delivered daily to India at a price of $6.85 a barrel while Iraq oil sales into Asia were valued at about $22 a barrel. In 2001, India agreed to swap 1.5 million tonnes of Iraqi crude under the oil-for-food program.\n\nThe Security Council noted: \"... although locally produced food items have become increasingly available throughout the country, most Iraqis do not have the necessary purchasing power to buy them. Unfortunately, the monthly food rations represent the largest proportion of their household income. They are obliged to either barter or sell items from the food basket in order to meet their other essential needs. This is one of the factors which partly explains why the nutritional situation has not improved in line with the enhanced food basket. Moreover, the absence of normal economic activity has given rise to the spread of deep-seated poverty.\"\n\nCountertrade transactions have been basically conducted among the former Soviet Union and its allies in the Eastern Europe and other parts of the world. The reason that these countries have allocated a big portion of their commerce to the countertrade attributed to insufficient hard currency. \nA significant proportion of international commerce, possibly as much as 25%, involves the barter of products for other products rather than for hard currency. Countertrade may range from a simple barter between two countries to a complex web of exchanges meeting the needs of all countries involved.\n\nNoted US economist Paul Samuelson was skeptical about the viability of countertrade as a marketing tool, claiming that \"Unless a hungry tailor happens to find an undraped farmer, who has both food and a desire for a pair of pants, neither can make a trade\". (This is called \"double coincidence of wants\".) But this is arguably too simplistic an interpretation of how markets operate in the real world. In any real economy, bartering occurs all the time, even if it is not the main means to acquire goods and services.\n\nThe volume of countertrade is growing. In 1972, it was estimated that countertrade was used by business and governments in 15 countries; in 1979, 27 countries; by the start of the 1990s, around 100 countries (Verzariu, 1992). A large part of countertrade has involved sales of military equipment (weaponry, vehicles and installations).\n\nMore than 80 countries nowadays regularly use or require countertrade exchanges. Officials of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) organization claimed that countertrade accounts for around 5% of the world trade. The British Department of Trade and Industry has suggested 15%, while some scholars believe it to be closer to 30%, with east-west trade having been as high as 50% in some trading sectors of Eastern European and Third World Countries for some years. A consensus of expert opinions (Okaroafo, 1989) has put the percentage of the value of world trade volumes linked to countertrade transactions at between 20% to 25%.\n\nAccording to an official US statement, \"The U.S. Government generally views countertrade, including barter, as contrary to an open, free trading system and, in the long run, not in the interest of the U.S. business community. However, as a matter of policy the U.S. Government will not oppose U.S. companies' participation in countertrade arrangements unless such action could have a negative impact on national security\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25477987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25477987", "title": "Crime in Mauritania", "text": "Crime in Mauritania\n\nCrime in Mauritania is moderate but steadily increasing. Most incidents occur in the cities and larger towns and are petty crimes, such as pickpocketing and the theft of improperly secured or openly visible valuables left in vehicles. Most criminal activity occurs at night. Residential burglaries and robberies, particularly at the beaches in Nouakchott, are not uncommon. Violent crimes and crimes involving the use of weapons are rare, but increasing.\n\nIn recent years, Mauritania, like much of West Africa has become a distribution hub for cocaine trafficking from Colombia to Europe.\n"}
{"id": "400051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400051", "title": "Cruising for sex", "text": "Cruising for sex\n\nCruising for sex, or cruising, is walking or driving about a locality in search of a sex partner, usually of the anonymous, casual, one-time variety. The term is also used when technology is used to find casual sex, such as using an Internet site or a telephone service.\n\nAccording to historian and author Tim Blanning, the term cruising originates from the Dutch equivalent \"kruisen\".\n\nIn a specifically sexual context, the term \"cruising\" originally emerged as an argot \"code word\" in gay slang, by which those \"in the know\" would understand the speaker's unstated sexual intent, whereas most heterosexuals, on hearing the same word in the same context, would normally misread the speaker's intended meaning in the word's more common (and presumably less threatening) nonsexual sense. This served (and in some contexts, still serves) as a protective sociolinguistic mechanism for gay men to recognize each other, and avoid being recognized by those who may wish to do them harm in broader societies noted for their homophobia.\n\nIn the latter half of the twentieth century, decriminalization of homosexual behaviour increasingly became the norm in English-speaking countries. The protective barrier once provided by the term \"cruising\" as a \"code word\" has therefore largely broken down and, arguably, become increasingly irrelevant. Thus the specifically sexual meaning of the term has passed into common usage to include the sexual behavior of heterosexual persons, as well.\n\nPublic health officials have noted that cruising locations are frequented by men who have sex with men, but do not identify with being homosexual or bisexual, who are closeted, married, or in relationships with women, do not date men or frequent gay bars, clubs or websites, or have otherwise no other way of meeting men for sex.\n\nIn the United States, the term \"cruising\" was used predominantly to denote exclusively homosexual behavior, but in Australia and the United Kingdom it is used by both homosexuals and heterosexuals to describe their own behavior, as witnessed in the common male heterosexual derivative phrase \"cruising for chicks\".\n\nIn the United States, cruising often takes place in gay bars, adult video arcades often through gloryholes, adult movie theaters, public toilets, parks, saunas, gyms or gay bathhouses. Engaging in such activities in public places like parks has led to participants being charged with indecent exposure.\n\nThe term has been enshrined since at least the mid-1970s in the name of the gay bar \"Foxes Booze 'n' Cruise\", located on Historic US Highway 66 in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Before closing, the business came under criticism for allegedly encouraging drunk driving by some who did not understand the term's historic usage, but the name and the sign remain a conscious reminder of gay history.\n\nThe term has also been adopted, in an altered form, by the website qruiser.com, an online LGBT community based in Sweden. This is a tongue in cheek reference, however, as the community functions as a forum for social interaction for the Scandinavian region, rather than focusing on exclusively sexual encounters. The website has attracted many heterosexual members as well.\n\nCruising for sex is alluded to in songs such as \"Cruisin' the Streets\" by the Boys Town Gang as well as \"I'm a Cruiser\" by the Village People, on the album titled \"Cruisin'\". In 1980, director William Friedkin made the movie \"Cruising\", starring Al Pacino. The film introduced many audiences to homosexual activities and the linguistic codes used for them, but gay rights groups perceived a negative depiction of the gay community in the film and protested its production.\n\nThe opening scene of the first episode of the HBO series \"Looking\" involves the main character Patrick (Jonathan Groff) cruising in a park, mainly out of curiosity of whether the activity is still in practice or not. \n\nCruising for sex was explored in Cruising Pavilion, a 2018 art installation associated with the Venice Bienalle of Architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17755", "title": "Demographics of Laos", "text": "Demographics of Laos\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Laos, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nLaos' population was estimated at about /1e6 round 2 million in , dispersed unevenly across the country. Most people live in valleys of the Mekong River and its tributaries. Vientiane Prefecture, which includes Vientiane, the capital and largest city of the country, had about 569,000 residents in 1999. The country's population density is 23.4/km.\n\nIn March 2005, the total population was 5.62 million (2.82 million females, 2.80 million males) in the 2005 census, an increase of 1.047 million since the previous 1995 census.\n\nThe demographic makeup of the population is uncertain as the government divides the people into three groups according to the altitude at which they live, rather than according to ethnic origin. The lowland Lao (Lao Loum) account for 68%, upland Lao (Lao Theung) for 22%, and the highland Lao (Lao Soung, including the Hmong and the Yao) for 9%.\n\nEthnic Lao, the principal lowland inhabitants and politically and culturally dominant group, make up the bulk of the Lao Loum and around 60% of the total population. The Lao are a branch of the Tai people who began migrating southward from China in the first millennium A.D. In the north, there are mountain tribes of Miao–Yao, Austro-Asiatic, Tibeto-Burman Hmong, Yao, Akha, and Lahu who migrated into the region in the 19th century. Collectively, they are known as Lao Sung or highland Lao.\n\nIn the central and southern mountains, Mon–Khmer tribes known as Lao Theung or upland Lao, predominate. Some Chinese minorities remain, particularly in the towns, but many Laotian Chinese were forced to leave during 1975-80 when Laos followed the anti-Chinese policy of Vietnam.\n\nThe predominant religion is Theravada Buddhism. Animism is common among the mountain tribes. Buddhism and spirit worship coexist easily. There is a small number of Christians and Muslims.\n\nThe official and dominant language is Lao, a tonal language of the Tai linguistic group. Midslope and highland Lao speak tribal languages. French, once common in government and commerce, has declined in use, while knowledge of English — the language of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) — has increased in recent years.\n\nWith a median age of 19.3, Laos has the youngest population of Asia.\n\nAccording to , the population of Laos increased from 1.7 million in 1950 to /1e6 round 1 million in . Until the year 2000 the proportion of children 0–14 years of age was over 40% of the total population. Due to decreasing fertility rates this proportion decreased to 34.5% in 2010. The proportion of elderly people is still very low (3.9%), although the proportion doubled between 1950 and 2010.\n\nStructure of the population (March 2005; census): \n\nStructure of the population (01.03.2015) (Census) :\n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nTotal fertility rate and other related statistics by province, as of 2011-2012:\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nSpecialists are largely in agreement as to the ethnolinguistic classification of the ethnic groups of Laos. For the purposes of the 1995 census, the government of Laos recognized 149 ethnic groups within 47 main ethnicities. whereas the Lao Front for National Construction (LFNC) recently revised the list to include 49 ethnicities consisting of over 160 ethnic groups.\n\nThe term \"ethnic minorities\" is used by some to classify the non-Lao ethnic groups, while the term \"indigenous peoples\" is not used by the Lao PDR. These 160 ethnic groups speak a total of 82 distinct living languages.\n\nLao 55%, Khmu 11%, Hmong 8%, Vietnamese 2%, other (over 100 minor ethnic groups) 26% (2005 census).\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nSex ratio:\n<br>\"at birth:\" 1.1 male(s)/female\n<br>\"under 15 years:\" 1.01 male(s)/female\n<br>\"15-64 years:\" 0.98 male(s)/female\n<br>\"65 years and over:\" 0.76 male(s)/female\n<br>\"total population:\" 0.98 male(s)/female (2009 est.)\n\nLife expectancy at birth:\n<br>\"total population:\" 62.39 years (2011 est.)\n<br>\"male:\" 60.50 years (2011 est.) \n<br>\"female:\" 64.36 years (2011 est.)\n\nNationality:\n<br>\"noun:\" Lao(s) or Laotian(s)\n<br>\"adjective:\" Lao or Laotian\n\nReligions:\nBuddhist 67%, Christian 1.5%, other and unspecified 31.5% (see Religion in Laos)\n\nLanguages:\nLao (official), French, English, Vietnamese, and various ethnic languages\n\nLiteracy:\n<br>\"definition:\" age 15 and over can read and write\n<br>\"total population:\" 73%\n<br>\"male:\" 83%\n<br>\"female:\" 63% (2005 est.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "803597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803597", "title": "Ecumene", "text": "Ecumene\n\nThe ecumene (US) or oecumene (UK; , \"oikouménē\",  \"inhabited\") was an ancient Greek term for the known, the inhabited, or the habitable world. Under the Roman Empire, it came to refer to civilization as well as the secular and religious imperial administration. In present usage, it is most often used in the context of \"ecumenical\" and describes the Christian Church as a unified whole, or the unified modern world civilization. It is also used in cartography to describe a type of world map (\"mappa mundi\") used in late Antiquity and the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Greek term cited above is the feminine present middle participle of the verb (\"oikéō\", \"to inhabit\") and is a clipped form of (\"oikouménē gē\", \"inhabited world\").\n\nEratosthenes of Cyrene (276–196 BC) deduced the circumference of the Earth with remarkable accuracy (within 10% of the correct value). The Greek cartographer Crates created a globe about 150 BC. Claudius Ptolemy (83–161) calculated the Earth's surface in his \"Geography\" and described the inhabited portion as spanning 180 degrees of longitude (from the Fortunate Isles in the west to Serae and Serica (China) in the east) and about 80 degrees of latitude (from Thule in the north to anti-Meroë below the equator). Ptolemy was well aware that the Romans knew only about a quarter of the globe and his erroneous belief that the Indian Ocean was landlocked led to expectation of a terra incognita (\"unknown land\"). In fact, symmetry led him to expect that there should be three other continents to balance the ecumene: Perioeci ( \"beside the ecumene\"), Antoeci (\"opposite the ecumene\") and the Antipodes (“opposite the feet”).\n\nThe cameo Gemma Augustea includes a Roman artistic personification of Oikoumene as she crowns an emperor, probably Augustus, perhaps for bringing peace to the (Roman) world.\nThe word was adopted within Christianity after Constantine the Great's assembly of a synod of bishops from all over the world at the First Council of Nicaea in 325.\n\nBy that time, the Greek term had come to refer more specifically to the civilized world and then simply the Roman Empire. This usage continued after the Diocletian Reforms and the Byzantine emperors used it to refer to their imperial administration. Constantinople was the \"Ecumenical City\" and, after 586, the Patriarch of Constantinople was known as the \"Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople\". Pope Gregory I objected to the adoption of this style by John IV of Constantinople, as it implied a universal jurisdiction he believed to be held by the bishop of Rome. His Fifth Epistle berates John for having \"attempted to seize upon a new name, whereby the hearts of all your brethren might have come to take offence\", despite the title having been granted at the emperor Maurice's behest.\n\nThe name continues to be borne by the Greek Orthodox patriarchs, although with the more restricted sense that they are the bishops of the former imperial capital.\n\nEspecially in the 20th century, the term has been employed to refer to unified Christian Church which is the ultimate goal of Ecumenism, a movement to promote cooperation among the various Christian denominations. The movement is not accepted by many Christian groups. The work of ecumenism takes place in the form of negotiations conducted between committees of various denominations and also through the deliberations of inter-denominational organizations such as the World Council of Churches. Relevant issues include Baptism, the Eucharist and Ministry.\n\nIn the context of cultural history, Lewis Mumford used the term \"ecumene\" in an academic sense in his work, \"Technics and Civilization\" (1934). William H. McNeill later popularized it in his \"Rise of the West\" (1963), suggesting that a single global ecumene emerged through the dominance of European political institutions, science, technology, and economic forms from the late 18th century onwards. One could argue that prior to the great voyages of discovery carried out by Christopher Columbus, Vasco da Gama, and Ferdinand Magellan, there were originally two separate ecumenes—one covering the Old World and one the New. The Spanish conquistadores fused these two ecumenes to form a single integrated \"world system\".\n\nPeter Sloterdijk uses the terms \"First Ecumene\" and \"Second Ecumene\" in his book \"In the World Interior of Capital\" (2014, original German: \"Im Weltinnenraum des Kapitals\", 2005). Sloterdijk takes these terms directly from the work of Eric Voegelin, specifically from \"Order and History\" vol. 4, \"The Ecumenic Age\" (1974), which he quotes.\n\nNote that the term \"ecumene\" can differ depending on the viewpoint from which it is perceived: for example, the Ancient Babylonians and the Ancient Greeks would each have known a different area of the world (though their worlds may have overlapped). Compare image to the right.\n\nThe term is used in cartography and the historical cartography to describe a type of symbolic, schematic world map made in late Antiquity and the Middle Ages.\n\n"}
{"id": "336110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336110", "title": "Ethnic issues in Japan", "text": "Ethnic issues in Japan\n\nAccording to census statistics, 98.5% of the population of Japan are Japanese, with the remainder being foreign nationals residing in Japan. However, these statistics measure citizenship, not ethnicity, with all domestic minorities such as the Ainu, Ryukyuans, Burakumin, and naturalized immigrants being counted as simply \"Japanese.\" The Japanese government does not collect data on the ethnic identities of its citizens, claiming that there are no issues of race relations among Japanese citizens as they are all of the same race.\n\nAbout 1.6% of Japan's total legal resident population are foreign citizens. Of these, according to 2012 data from the Japanese government, the principal groups are as follows.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Japan doesn't recognize North Korean nationality/citizenship\n\nThe above statistics do not include the approximately 30,000 U.S. military stationed in Japan, nor do they account for illegal immigrants. The statistics also do not take into account minority groups who are Japanese citizens such as the Ainu (an aboriginal people primarily living in Hokkaido), the Ryukyuans (who may or may not be considered ethnically Yamato people), naturalized citizens from backgrounds including but not limited to Korean and Chinese, and citizen descendants of immigrants. The total legal resident population of 2012 is estimated at 127.6 million.\n\nThe nine largest minority groups residing in Japan are: North and South Korean, Chinese, Brazilian (many Brazilians in Japan have Japanese ancestors), Filipinos, Taiwanese, the Ainu indigenous to Hokkaido, and the Ryukyuans indigenous to Okinawa and other islands between Kyushu and Taiwan. The Burakumin, an outcast group at the bottom of Japan's feudal order, are sometimes included. There are also a number of smaller ethnic communities in Japan with a much shorter history.\n\nAccording to the United Nations' 2008 Diène report, communities most affected by racism and xenophobia in Japan include:\n\n\n\"Zainichi\" (resident in Japan) Koreans are permanent residents of Japan registered as Joseon (Korean: 조선, Japanese: Chōsen, 朝鮮) or South Korean nationality. Joseon was annexed by Japan in 1910, therefore Zainichi Koreans with Joseon citizenship are de facto stateless. After World War II, 2 million Koreans living in Japan were granted a temporary Joseon nationality under the US military government (because there was no government in Korea then). However, the meaning of Joseon nationality became vague as Korea was divided by the United States and the Soviet Union, and in 1948 North and South Korea established their own governments, respectively. Some obtained South Korean citizenship later, but others who opposed the division of Korea or sympathized with North Korea maintained their Joseon nationality because people are not allowed to register North Korean nationality.\n\nMost Zainichi came to Japan from 1910 to 1945. A large proportion of this immigration is said to be the result of Korean landowners and workers losing their land and livelihood due to Japanese land and production confiscation initiatives and migrating to Japan for work. According to the calculation of Rudolph Rummel, a total of 5.4 million Koreans were also conscripted into forced labor, and shipped throughout the Japanese Empire. Of these, 210,000 to 870,000 Koreans died during forced labor in places such as Manchuria and Sakhalin.\n\nDuring the occupation of Korea by Japan, the Japanese government enforced a policy of forced assimilation. Korean culture was oppressed; the Korean language was labeled a dialect (方言) of Japanese and banned, Koreans were forced to learn and speak Japanese, and Koreans were forced to take Japanese names. However, Korean people resisted this, and by the end of the 1940s it was almost completely undone.\n\nEthnic Koreans in Japan were massacred as scapegoat in the chaos of the Great Kanto earthquake in 1923.\n\nMany Korean refugees also came to the country during the Jeju uprising in the First Republic of South Korea. Though most migrants returned to Korea, GHQ estimates in 1946 indicated that 650,000 Koreans remained in Japan.\n\nAfter World War II, the Korean community in Japan was split between allegiance to South Korea (Mindan) and North Korea (Chongryon).\n\nZainichi who identify themselves with Chongryon are also an important money source of North Korea. One estimate suggests that the total annual transfers from Japan to North Korea may exceed US$200 million.\n\nJapanese law does not allow dual citizenship for adults over 22 and until the 1980s required adoption of a Japanese name for citizenship. Partially for this reason, many Zainichi did not obtain Japanese citizenship as they saw the process to be humiliating.\n\nAlthough more Zainichi are becoming Japanese citizens, issues of identity remain complicated. Even those who do not choose to become Japanese citizens often use Japanese names to avoid discrimination and live their lives as if they were Japanese. This is in contrast with the Chinese living in Japan, who generally use their Chinese names and openly form Chinatown communities.\n\nAn increase in tensions between Japan and North Korea in the late 1990s led to a surge of attacks against Chongryon, the pro-North residents organisation, including a pattern of assaults against Korean schoolgirls in Japan. For a long time, Chongryon enjoyed unofficial immunity from searches and investigations, although it has long been suspected of a variety of criminal acts on behalf of North Korea, such as illegal transfer of funds to North Korea and espionage.\n\nThe Japanese authorities have recently started to crack down on Chongryon with investigations and arrests. These moves are often criticized by Chongryon as acts of political suppression.\n\nWhen Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara referred to Chinese and Koreans as \"sangokujin\" (三国人) in 2000 in the context of foreigners being a potential source of unrest in the aftermath of an earthquake, the foreign community complained. Historically, the word has often been used pejoratively and Ishihara's statement brought images of the massacre of Koreans by civilians and police alike after the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake to mind. Therefore, the use of the term in context of potential rioting by foreigners is considered by many as provocative, if not explicitly racist.\n\nIn 2014, a United States government human rights report expressed concern about the abuse and harassment directed against Korean nationals by Japanese right-wing groups.\n\nMainland Chinese are the largest minority in Japan (according to the 2008 statistics as shown above). Mainland Chinese in particular have been targets of anti-immigrant sentiment along with government, police and media portrayal of them as being likely to commit crime. \nIndeed, an investigator from the United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNCHR) said, racism against Koreans and Chinese is deeply rooted in Japan because of history and culture.\n\nThere are a number of Taiwanese people that reside in Japan due to close (yet unofficial) ties between Taiwan and Japan. Taiwan was a colony of Japan from 1895 to 1945 and Taiwanese during this time were considered Japanese citizens.. In general, Taiwanese people are treated relatively well comparing to other minority groups such as Chinese and Koreans due to the positive image towards Taiwan among Japanese people. Renhō, the leader of the Democratic Party, is known to be the most famous Taiwanese-Japanese politician.\n\nJapanese ultra-nationalist governor Shintaro Ishihara insulted the Taiwanese, referring to them as Sangokujin-\n\nThe Ainu are an indigenous group mainly living in Hokkaidō. \n\nAt present, the official Japanese government estimate of the population is 25,000, though this number has been disputed with unofficial estimates of upwards of 200,000.\n\nThe Ryukyuan people lived in an independent kingdom until it became a vassal of Japan's Satsuma Domain in 1609. The kingdom, however, retained a degree of autonomy until 1879 when the islands were officially annexed by Japan as Okinawa Prefecture. They are now Japan's largest minority group, with 1.3 million living in Okinawa and 300,000 living in other areas of Japan.\n\nThe Okinawan language, the most widely spoken Ryukyuan language, is related to Japanese, the two being in the Japonic languages. Ryukyuan languages were heavily suppressed through a policy of forced assimilation throughout the former Ryukyu Kingdom after it was annexed in 1879. With only Japanese taught in schools and students punished for speaking or writing their native language through the use of dialect cards, the younger generations of Ryukyuans began to give up their \"backwards\" culture for that of Japan. The Japanese government officially labels the Ryukyuan languages as dialects (Hōgen) of Japanese, although they are not mutually intelligible with one another, or even between each other. In 1940, there was a political debate amongst Japanese leaders about whether or not to continue the oppression of the Ryukyuan languages, although the argument for assimilation prevailed. Japanese soldiers outright shot people who spoke Ryukyuan languages during the Battle of Okinawa, believing they were spies. There are still some children learning Ryukyuan languages natively, but this is rare especially on mainland Okinawa. The language still is used in traditional cultural activities, such as folk music, or folk dance.\n\nAfter the annexation of the islands, many Ryukyuans, especially Okinawans, migrated to the mainland to find jobs or better living conditions. They were sometimes met with discrimination, such as workplaces with signs that read, \"No Ryukyuans or Koreans.\" At the 1903 Osaka Exhibition, an exhibit called the \"Pavilion of the World\" (Jinruikan) had actual Okinawans, Ainu, Koreans, and other \"backwards\" peoples on display in their native clothes and housing. During the fierce fighting in the Battle of Okinawa, Japanese soldiers committed multiple atrocities against Okinawan civilians, including rape and murder, using them as human shields, and forcing them to commit suicide. In 2007, the Ministry of Education attempted to revise school textbooks to lessen mention of these atrocities, but was met with massive demonstrations in Okinawa.\n\nCulturally, Okinawa is also close to southern China, Taiwan, and Southeast Asia reflecting its long history of trade with these regions. However, because of the standard use of Japanese in schools, television, and all print media in Okinawa, these cultural differences are often glossed over in Japanese society. Consequently, many Japanese consider Okinawans to be Japanese, sometimes ignoring their distinct cultural and historical heritage in insensitive ways.\n\nOther notable minorities in Japan include Brazilians and Filipinos.\n\nWestern foreigners in Japan, particularly those from Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand, are often called 外国人 \"Gaikokujin\" or 外人 \"Gaijin\". The first large influx of such foreigners occurred in the 1980s, when the Japanese government adopted a policy to give scholarships to large numbers of foreign students to study at Japanese universities.\n\nIn addition, as the Japanese economy grew quickly in the 1980s, a sizable number of Westerners began coming to Japan. Many found jobs as English conversation teachers, but others were employed in various professional fields such as finance and business. Although some have become permanent residents or even naturalized citizens, they are generally perceived as short-term visitors and treated as outsiders of Japanese society.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, the Keidanren business lobbying organization advocated a policy of allowing South Americans of Japanese ancestry (mainly Brazilians and Peruvians) to work in Japan, as Japan's industries faced a major labor shortage. Although this policy has been decelerated in recent years, many of these individuals continue to live in Japan, some in ethnic enclaves near their workplaces.\n\nMany people from Southeast Asia (particularly Vietnam and the Philippines) and Southwest Asia (and Iran) also entered Japan during this time, making foreigners as a group a more visible minority in Japan. Those foreigners are called 来日 \"Rainichi\" (\"coming to Japan\") in contrast to 在日 \"Zainichi\" (\"in Japan\"). The TBS television series \"Smile\" is about Bito Hayakawa who was born to a Japanese mother and Filipino father, and struggled to overcome the difficulties faced as a mixed race child.\n\nThe main concerns of the latter groups are often related to their legal status, a public perception of criminal activity, and general discrimination associated with being non-Japanese.\n\nSakhalin, which was once part of Japan as Karafuto Prefecture, had indigenous populations of Nivkhs and Uilta (Orok). Like the Karafuto Koreans but unlike the Ainu, they were thus not included in the evacuation of Japanese nationals after the Soviet invasion in 1945. Some Nivkhs and Uilta who served in the Imperial Japanese Army were held in Soviet work camps; after court cases in the late 1950s and 1960s, they were recognised as Japanese nationals and thus permitted to migrate to Japan. Most settled around Abashiri, Hokkaidō. The was founded to fight for Uilta rights and the preservation of Uilta traditions in 1975 by Dahinien Gendānu.\n\nThere are a few in the Bonin Islands. Their ethnic background is various such as US, UK, France, Germany, Denmark, Micronesia, and Portugal.\n\nAlthough protection and refugee status has been granted to those seeking asylum from Myanmar, the same has not been offered to refugee Kurds in Japan from Turkey. Without this protection and status, these Kurds who have fled from Turkey due to persecution are generally living in destitution, with no education and having no legal residency status.\n\nA clash took place outside the Turkish embassy in Tokyo in October 2015 between Kurds and Turks in Japan which began after a Kurdish party flag was shown at the embassy.\n\nRacial discrimination against other Asians was habitual in Imperial Japan, having begun with the start of Japanese colonialism. The Meiji era Japanese showed a contempt for other Asians. This was exemplified in an editorial titled \"Datsu-A Ron,\" which advocated that Japan treat other Asians as other western empires treat them. The Shōwa regime preached racial superiority and racialist theories, based on nature of \"Yamato-damashii.\" According to historian Kurakichi Shiratori, one of Emperor Hirohito's teachers: \"Therefore nothing in the world compares to the divine nature (\"shinsei\") of the imperial house and likewise the majesty of our national polity (\"kokutai\"). Here is one great reason for Japan's superiority.\"\n\nAccording to the \"An Investigation of Global Policy with the Yamato Race as Nucleus\", a classified report in 1943 of the Ministry of Health and Welfare completed on July 1, 1943, just as a family has harmony and reciprocity, but with a clear-cut hierarchy, the Japanese, as a racially superior people, were destined to rule Asia \"eternally\" as the head of the family of Asian nations. The most horrific xenophobia of the pre-Shōwa period was displayed after the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, where in the confusion after a massive earthquake, Koreans were wrongly maligned as poisoning the water supply. A vicious pogrom resulted in the deaths of at least 3,000 Koreans, and the imprisonment of 26,000.\n\nAttacks against Western foreigners and their Japanese friends by nationalist citizens, rose in the 1930s under the influence of Japanese military-political doctrines in the Showa period, after a long build-up starting in the Meiji period when only a few \"samurai\" die-hards did not accept foreigners in Japan. For an exception, see Jewish settlement in the Japanese Empire.\n\nRacism was omnipresent in the press during the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Greater East Asia War and the media's descriptions of the superiority of the Yamato people was unwaveringly consistent. The first major anti-foreigner publicity campaign, called \"Bōchō\" (Guard Against Espionage), was launched in 1940 alongside the proclamation of the \"Tōa shin Shitsujō\" (New Order in East Asia) and its first step, the \"Hakkō ichiu\".\n\nMostly after the launching of the Pacific War, Westerners were detained by official authorities, and on occasion were objects of violent assaults, sent to police jails or military detention centers or suffered bad treatment in the street. This applied particularly to Americans and British; in Manchukuo at the same period xenophobic attacks were carried out against Chinese and other non-Japanese.\n\nBecause of the low importance placed on assimilating minorities in Japan, laws regarding ethnic matters receive low priority in the legislative process. Still, in 1997, \"Ainu cultural revival\" legislation was passed which replaced the previous \"Hokkaido Former Aboriginal Protection\" legislation that had devastating effects on the Ainu in the past.\n\nArticle 14 of the Constitution of Japan states that all \"people\" (English version) or \"citizens\" (revised Japanese version) are equal under the law, and they cannot be discriminated against politically, economically, or socially on the basis of race, belief, sex, or social or other background.\n\nHowever, Japan does not have civil rights legislation which prohibits or penalizes discriminatory activities committed by citizens, businesses, or non-governmental organizations.\n\nAttempts have been made in the Diet to enact human rights legislation. In 2002, a draft was submitted to the House of Representatives, but did not reach a vote. Had the law passed, it would have set up a Human Rights Commission to investigate, name and shame, or financially penalize discriminatory practices as well as hate speech committed by private citizens or establishments.\n\nAnother issue which has been publicly debated but has not received much legislative attention is whether to allow permanent residents to vote in local legislatures. \"Zainichi\" organizations affiliated with North Korea are against this initiative, while \"Zainichi\" organizations affiliated with South Korea support it.\n\nFinally, there is debate about altering requirements for work permits to foreigners. Currently, the Japanese government does not issue work permits unless it can be demonstrated that the person has certain skills which cannot be provided by locals.\n\nA handful of apartments, motels, night clubs, brothels, sex parlours and public baths in Japan have put up signs stating that foreigners are not allowed, or that they must be accompanied by a Japanese person to enter. However, many Japanese claim that these signs are very rare and the prohibitions are due to perceived social incompatibility—for example, foreigners may not understand Japanese bathhouse etiquette—and not racism.\n\nIn February 2002 plaintiffs sued a Hokkaido bathhouse in district court pleading racial discrimination, and on November 11 the Sapporo District Court ordered the bathhouse to pay the plaintiffs ¥1 million each in damages.\n\nIn fact, there were a substantial number of lawsuits regarding discrimination against foreigners. For example, in 2005, a Korean woman who attempted to rent a room was refused because she was not a Japanese citizen. She filed a discrimination lawsuit, and she won in Japanese court.\n\n\"Discrimination toward foreign nationals in their searches for homes continues to be one of the biggest problems\", said the head of the Ethnic Media Press Centre. Organizers of the service said they hope to eradicate the racism that prevents foreigners, particularly Non-Westerners, from renting apartments since there are currently no laws in Japan that ban discrimination.\n\nAlthough foreign professors teach throughout the Japanese higher education system, Robert J. Geller of University of Tokyo reported, in 1992, that it was extremely rare for them to be given tenure.\n\nAs in other countries, foreigners sometimes do work that is not allowed by their visas, or overstay the terms of their visas. Their employment tends to be concentrated in fields where most Japanese are not able to or no longer wish to work.\n\nA large portion of crimes by immigrants are by Chinese in Japan, and some highly publicized crimes by organized groups of Chinese (often with help of Japanese organized crime) have led to a negative public perception.\nIn 2003, foreigners from Africa were responsible for 2.8 times as much crime per capita as Japanese natives but were slightly less likely to commit violent crime.\n\nAccording to National Police Authority records, in 2002, 16,212 foreigners were caught committing 34,746 crimes, over half of which turned out to be visa violations (residing/working in Japan without a valid visa). The statistics show that 12,667 cases (36.5%) and 6,487 individuals (40.0%) were Chinese, 5,272 cases (15.72%) and 1,186 individuals (7.3%) were Brazilian, and 2,815 cases (8.1%) and 1,738 individuals (10.7%) were Korean. The total number of crimes committed in the same year by Japanese was 546,934 cases.\n\nWithin these statistics, Japanese committed 6,925 violent crimes, of which 2,531 were arson or rape, while foreigners committed 323 violent crimes, but only 42 cases are classified as arson or rape. Foreigners were more likely to commit crimes in groups: About 61.5% of crimes committed by foreigners had one or more accomplice, while only 18.6% of crimes committed by Japanese were in groups.\n\nBy a 2010 study by the National Police Agency illegal residents decreased from 219,000 in 2004 to 113,000 in 2008, and in addition, the number of arrested foreign visitors decreased from 21,842 in 2004 to 13,880 in 2008. The percentage of foreign nationals in all arrestees charged in penal code crimes was about 2.0% and this number has remained relatively stable. While the percentage of foreign nationals among all arrestees charged in cases involving robbery or burglary was around 5.5% in 2008.\n\nThe former head of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government's Emergency Public Safety Task Force, Hiroshi Kubo, published a book called (in English: \"Is Public Safety Really Deteriorating?\", ) disputing foreign crime statistics, suggesting that such statistics were being manipulated by politicians for political gain. He suggested, for example, that including visa violations in crime statistics is misleading. He also said that the crime rate in Tokyo is based on reported rather than actual crimes.\n\nIn 2005, a United Nations special rapporteur on racism and xenophobia expressed concerns about deep and profound racism in Japan and insufficient government recognition of the problem.\n\nDoudou Diène (Special Rapporteur of the UN Commission on Human Rights) concluded after an investigation and nine-day tour of Japan that racial discrimination and xenophobia in Japan primarily affects three groups: national minorities, descendants of former Japanese colonies, and foreigners from other Asian countries. Professor John Lie, from the University of California, Berkeley, in spite of the widespread belief that Japan is ethnically homogeneous, believe it is more accurate to describe Japan as a multiethnic society. Such claims have long been rejected by other sectors of Japanese society such as former Japanese Prime Minister Tarō Asō, who has once described Japan as being a nation of \"one race, one civilization, one language and one culture\".\n\n\"Sankei Shimbun\", a Japanese national newspaper, while expressing a support for combating discrimination, expressed doubt on the impartiality of the report, pointing out that Doudou Diène never visited Japan before and his short tour was arranged by a Japanese NGO, IMADR (International Movement Against All Forms of Discrimination). The chairman of the organization is Professor Kinhide Mushakoji (武者小路公秀), who is a board member (and the former director of the board) of the International Institute of the Juche Idea (主体思想国際研究所), an organization whose stated purpose is to propagate \"Juche\", the official ideology of North Korea.\n\nIn 2010, according to the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, Japan's record on racism has improved, but there is still room for progress. The committee was critical of the lack of anti-hate speech legislation in the country and the treatment of Japanese minorities and its large Korean and Chinese communities. The \"Japan Times\" quoted committee member Regis de Gouttes as saying that there had been little progress since 2001 (when the last review was held) \"There is no new legislation, even though in 2001 the committee said prohibiting hate speech is compatible with freedom of expression.\" Many members of the committee, however, praised the Japanese government's recent recognition of the Ainu as an indigenous people.\n\nIn February 2015, Ayako Sono, a former member of an education reform panel, wrote a controversial column in Sankei Shimbun suggesting that more foreign workers be imported to meet labor shortages, but that they be separated from native Japanese in a system of apartheid. She later explained \"I have never commended apartheid, but I do think that the existence of a ‘Chinatown’ or ‘Little Tokyo’ is a good thing.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22506528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22506528", "title": "Flatplan", "text": "Flatplan\n\nThe flatplan is a page plan of a publication that shows how the articles and adverts are laid out. \n\nA flatplan shows where all articles and adverts are laid out, and in what order. It allows complete control of the publication production process avoiding confusion. Without a flatplan, the production director and advertisement director struggle to control which pages go where. This makes signing off a publication very difficult and time-consuming.\n\nFlatplans started life drawn out on pieces of paper stuck to the wall of the production team. As pages moved around, and advertisements were booked (and cancelled) the pages were annotated and amended.\n\nNowadays, paper flatplans are being replaced by digital flatplans. These systems link the data in a flatplan with other systems. Many synchronise with Adobe InDesign updating with the most recent version of the artwork for each page as the designer is working on it. Other examples include linking to ad booking systems where copy chasing is automated. Increasingly, such systems sit at the centre of the prepress workflow.\n"}
{"id": "3522398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3522398", "title": "Godoberi language", "text": "Godoberi language\n\nGodoberi (also spelled Ghodoberi) (self-designation Gijbdilhi mitts) (also called годоберинский язык, ღოდობერიული ენა, годоберийский язык, гъибдилIи мицци, Ɣibdiƛi micci, Godoberin) is an Andic language of the Northeast Caucasian language family spoken by the Godoberi in southwestern Dagestan, Russia. It is spoken by approximately 130 people. There are only two dialects which are Godoberi and Zibirhali, and the main difference is in pronunciation. The Endangered Languages Project classifies the language as endangered based on the number of native speakers.\n\nThe anthropological development of the Godoberis is unknown. The Godoberi language is what distinguishes the cultural group from other groups in the area. When compared to other Andic languages, Godoberi is considered the most similar to Chamalal and Botlikh languages. Some words are influenced by Avar, Turkish, and Arab. After being incorporated into the Russian Empire in the 19th century and then ruled by the Soviet Union in the 20th century, there is a strong Russian influence in the Godoberi language.\n\nThe native speakers of Godoberi live in two villages Godoberi (\"Gjudu\" in Godoberi) and Zibirhali (\"Shalu\" in Godoberi). These villages are located in the northwest mountains on the left bank of the Andi-Koisu River in southwest Dagestan, a republic of Russia.\n\nGodoberi is not a written language, and it is used only in the home. Schools teach the children Avar and Russian, and this is an influential factor in the death of the language. The native speakers of Godoberi use Avar or Russian as a written form of communication. These two languages are also used when speaking to people from neighboring communities.\n\nThe Godoberi language has five vowels: \"i, u, e, o, a.\" Diphthongs, two vowels combined in one syllable to make one sound, are found only in Godoberi and no other Daghestanain languages (example: \"c'ai\" 'fire'). Monophthongs are also found in Godoberi. There are 13 total: \"i, e, a, o, u, i:, e:, a:, o:, u:, ˜i, ã, ˜u.\" The accentual system is extremely complex especially for nouns.\n\nSingular words are divided into three gender classes: masculine, feminine, and neuter. Plural words are not divided into gender classes, but they are divided as human or object. There are two types of adjectives: primary and participles. A majority of the primary adjectives do not denote gender classes. The four types of participles are past, present, future, and non-future negative. The numerical system does not vary greatly from other languages. Verb morphology is also regular compared to other languages in the Andic language family.\n"}
{"id": "13213271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13213271", "title": "Grantham Prize", "text": "Grantham Prize\n\nThe Grantham Prize was an annual journalism award awarded between September 2005 and October 2012. It was established by Jeremy Grantham and Hannelore Grantham and the Metcalf Institute for Marine and Environmental Reporting to annually recognize the work of one journalist or a team of journalists for exemplary reporting on the environment.\n\n\"The public deserves ready access to the kind of information and news that only outstanding independent journalism can provide,\" the Granthams said in announcing the prize. They say they want their annual award of $75,000 to \"give that kind of reporting the honor, respect, and visibility it needs.\"\n\nThe purpose of the Prize was to encourage outstanding coverage of the environment, to recognize reporting that has the potential to bring about constructive change, and to broadly disseminate the Prize-winning story to increase public awareness and understanding of issues focusing on the environment.\n\nThe prize was awarded annually to non-fiction made available to a general audience in the United State or Canada during the previous calendar year in newspapers, magazines, books, television, cable, radio, or online.\n\nAmong the criteria jurors consider are the significance of the subject matter, quality and originality of the journalism, and the effort involved in telling the story. The Grantham Prize entries was judged by an independent panel of jurors, chaired by David Boardman, \"Seattle Times\". Other journalists on the jury included Robert B. Semple, Jr., \"The New York Times\"; James Hamilton, Charles S. Sydnor Professor of Public Policy at \"Duke University\"; Susanne Reber, Center for Investigative Reporting; Deborah Potter, NewsLab, Philip Meyer, Professor, emeritus professor at the University of North Carolina School of Journalism and Mass Communication and Diane Hawkins-Cox, formerly of CNN.\n\nThe Grantham Prize was funded by Jeremy Grantham and Hannelore Grantham through The Grantham Foundation for the Protection of the Environment. The foundation seeks to raise awareness of urgent environmental issues and supports individuals and organizations working to find solutions. Their grantmaking supports communication and collaboration in environmental protection, with an emphasis on climate change. \n\nThe Metcalf Institute for Marine and Environmental Reporting was established in 1997 with funding from three journalism foundations and the Belo Corporation, The Providence Journal Charitable Foundation, and the Philip L. Graham Fund, and also from the Telaka Foundation. The Institute was established as a memorial to Michael Metcalf, a visionary leader in newspaper journalism and, from 1979 to 1987, the Publisher of The Providence Journal Bulletin. The Metcalf Institute provides science and environmental science training for reporters and editors to help improve the accuracy and clarity of reporting on marine and environmental issues.\n\nGrantham Prize\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58531259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58531259", "title": "Harmful influence of technology", "text": "Harmful influence of technology\n\nHarmful influence of technology refers to the negative effect of technology which comes along with all of the useful implementations of variety of devices and innovations. People are constantly exposed to waves and radiation emitted from various appliances that are in everyday use. \n\nThe rapid increase of the number of users of the mobile phones started in the last twenty years of the 20th century, and now multi-functionality of smartphones attract more and more users all around the world according to the Das S, Chakraborty S and Mahanta B. in \"A study on the effect of prolonged mobile phone use on pure tone audiometry thresholds of medical students of Sikkim\". However, the researchers declare that despite the multi-functionality, the mobile devices have the negative effect on human's body, head in particular. Furthermore, the researchers reveal the possibility of the connection between radiation emitted by the phones and variety of brain disorders. Correspondingly, the authors of the research emphasize on the electromagnetic radiation (EMR) which comes from the phone and the fact that beside the headache it might be the cause of the change of average pure tone audiometry (PTA) threshold.\nDilshad Singh states that the use of the radio diagnostic is one of the main reasons of the rising amount of people with cancer. In addition, this researcher affirms that not only the patients are the ones being affected by radiation but also the medical personnel who are providing the diagnostic procedure. In his research Dilshad Singh also discloses that implementation of the as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA) principle should lower level of the radiation affects. However, the author declares that, according to the multiple investigation, protection techniques were not obeyed by the medical technicians, what might be the result of a lack of the radiation protection instruction courses as a part of the curriculum in the educational institutions.\n\nBoth Wi-Fi and Li-Fi can be used for the Personal digital assistant (PDA) projects according to the Dr.S.Prabhavathi and undergraduate students Ms.Sai Kavya.C, Vijayalakshmi.K, Sreevani.K and Dilip.A in their research. However, because of the harmful influence of the radiation which is used by the Wi-Fi and can even worsen the conditions of physically impaired people, the Li-Fi is implemented in the countries like India where the huge number of people are physically impaired. \n\nFurthermore, the use of Li-Fi is eco-friendly and low-cost.\n\nSherry Turkle in her essay \"No Need to Call\", by presenting the examples from real life situations, demonstrates the fact that text messaging have created the possibility to prevent people from the fast response and quick reaction to some particular question during the regular conversation, since a person gets more time to think about what should be answered. In addition, the presence of the other problem is described by the author in the part of an essay called \"Voices\": the gap created by e-mails and text messages between reality and virtual life leads to the fact that people can affirm that they are completely different character than they are in the real life, what is not that easy to do in real communication or even the voice call.\n"}
{"id": "50231416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50231416", "title": "Health-related embarrassment", "text": "Health-related embarrassment\n\nMedical help may in some instances be accompanied by embarrassment.\n\nThe source of this embarrassment or its range can vary from person to person. For some the embarrassment heightens when confronted by specific characteristics, such as a doctor of the opposite sex, while for others, the scope of their embarrassment may be exhaustive regardless of the social or peer group dynamics. For others, the embarrassment factor may be overarching, especially when at a disadvantaged socioeconomic situation, for example one who needs financial assistance to obtain medical help. In these scenarios the embarrassment may be duplicated due to a possible scenario wherein they are to be examined by both a doctor and perhaps if underage, a parent, or if an adult of low socioeconomic circumstances, perhaps a social worker.\n"}
{"id": "3145486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3145486", "title": "Hubbard Association of Scientologists International", "text": "Hubbard Association of Scientologists International\n\nThe Hubbard Association of Scientologists (HAS) was the original corporation founded in 1954 by L. Ron Hubbard that managed all Scientology organizations. The HAS evolved from the Office of L. Ron Hubbard located in Phoenix, Arizona. It was re-incorporated later in the year as the Hubbard Association of Scientologists International (HASI) to correct the non-profit status omission in the corporate paperwork.\n\nHASI general members would receive 10% discount on all books, tape lectures and other items from Church bookstores. HASI membership was a requirement to take services at the various Scientology organizations.\n\nHASI was the sole membership organization for the Church of Scientology prior to October 1984, when the International Association of Scientologists was started.\n\n"}
{"id": "15495588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15495588", "title": "Indo-Guadeloupeans", "text": "Indo-Guadeloupeans\n\nIndo-Guadeloupeans are mostly descended from indentured workers who came mostly from South India in the late 19th century. There are currently about 60,000 people of Indian origin living in Guadeloupe, making it home to one of the largest South Indian populations in the Caribbean.\n\nTamils in Guadeloupe trace their roots to over 40,000 indentured workers who were brought from India to Guadeloupe in 1861 to work on plantations through an agreement reached between France and the United Kingdom. The importation of Indian labor was gradually discontinued after 1883 as a result of adoption of a policy by the British Government against recruitment of labor in its territories and also because of the high mobility of Indian labor.\n\nOver 10,000 of them perished as a result of difficult living and working conditions and the rest continued to be treated harshly until they secured some political rights in 1904 due to Henry Sidambarom's efforts. It was in 1923 that Guadeloupeans of Indian descent were granted citizenship and the right to vote. A few Indians were indentured to Saint Martin (prior to 2007 Saint Martin was a part of Guadeloupe).\n\nAfter migration stopped, the Indian community gradually acculturated to the rest of the population, so much so that few of the Indians on the island speak Tamil or other Indian languages any more. However, third or fourth generation persons of Indian origin still maintain links with India in many different ways, such as adopting Indian names. Many Indians in Guadeloupe adopted French and Christian names.\n\nThe city of Basse-Terre in Guadeloupe and Pondicherry in India have been designated as twin cities to promote cultural links and exchanges.\n\nThe Indian community in Guadeloupe is estimated to be approximately 55,000 in a population of over 400,000. However, ethnicity statistics are not done by the French government. There are several associations to promote Indian culture in Guadeloupe, usually run by people of Indian origin. They are fairly active in organising cultural activities in all the principal towns, namely, Pointe-a-Pitre, Le Moule, Port-Louis, Capesterre-Belle-Eau and Saint-Claude.\n\nOne important Indian association is \"L‘Association Culturelle Guadeloupéenne des Amis de L’Inde\", which has over 300 members and 2000 associates.\n\nThere are a sizeable number of Hindu Tamil temples that are located in Basse-Terre, and other regions. Tamils in Guadeloupe started studying their own language in an effort to preserve their culture and traditions. Guadeloupe Tamils initiated links with Tamil Canadians in developing their language and culture.\n\nThe French principle of \"laicité\", meaning “secularism”, is practiced in Guadeloupe. The French Republic forces Indian cultural associations to produce messages about Hinduism in Guadeloupe that display Indian culture independently from Hinduism. However, it has proven to be controversial due to the French practice of \"laique,\" found in the second article of the French constitution which expresses the principle of separation between government affairs and religious institutions. Indo-Guadeloupeans and Guadaloupean Hindus practice \"laicité\" freely in the public arena. There is ongoing controversy since France is a \"laique\" state, thus religion is to be practiced privately. However, as French citizens, the only thorough enforcement has been to present religious tradition independent of their culture in their associative work.\n\nRecently, the 152nd anniversary of the arrival of the Hindus Tamil in Guadeloupe was observed. The Indian Associations in the territory are in the process of forming a committee, which will start working to realize the event.\n\nSome Indo-Guadeloupians have acceded to important posts in the public and private sectors. Dr. Henri Bangou held the post of Senator from Guadeloupe in the French Senate. Ernest Moutoussamy has been the Député of Guadeloupe in the National Assembly of France.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1039080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039080", "title": "Kokborok", "text": "Kokborok\n\nKokborok () is the native language of the Borok (Tripura) people of the Indian state of Tripura and neighbouring areas of Bangladesh. The name comes from \"kok\", meaning \"language\" and \"borok\", neaning \"human\", Kokborok is closely related to the Bodo, Dimasa and Kachari languages of the neighbouring state of Assam.\n\nKokborok was formerly known as Tipra, with its name being changed in the 20th century. The names also refers to the inhabitants of the former Twipra kingdom, as well as the ethnicity of its speakers.\n\nIn addition to Kokborok, the Tipra people speak three other languages: Tripura, Riam chong, and Darlong (and other related languages from Bangladesh and India). Riam chong is spoken mostly by the Halam community and Darlong language spoken by the Darlong people, being related with Kuki-chin alike the Mizo, while Kokborok is related to Tibeto-Burman. Kokborok and Riam chong are very different from each other, but Riam chong and Darlong language is also considered one of the native language of Tripura.\n\nKókborok has been attested since at least the 1st century AD, when the historical record of Tipra kings began to be written down. The script of Kókborok was called \"Koloma\". The Chronicle of the Borok kings were written in a book called the \"Rajratnakar\". This book was originally written down in Kókborok using the Koloma script by Durlobendra Chontai.\n\nLater, two Brahmins, Sukreswar and Vaneswar translated it into Sanskrit and then again translated the chronicle into Bengali in the 19th century. The chronicle of Tipra in Kókborok and Rajratnakar are no longer available. Kokborok was relegated to a common people's dialect during the rule of the Borok kings in the Kingdom of Tipra from the 19th century till the 20th century.\n\nKokborok was declared an official language of the state of Tripura, India by the state government in the year 1979. Consequently, the language has been taught in schools of Tripura from the primary level to the higher secondary stage since the 1980s. A certificate course in Kokborok started from 1994 at Tripura University and a post graduate diploma in Kokborok was started in 2001 by the Tripura University. Kokborok was introduced in the Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in the colleges affiliated to the Tripura University from the year 2012, and a Masters of Arts (MA) degree in Kokborok was started by Tripura University from the year 2015.\n\nThere is currently a demand for giving the language recognition as one of the recognised official languages of India as per the 8th schedule of the Constitution. The official form is the dialect spoken in Agartala, the state capital of Tripura.\n\nKokborok is a Sino-Tibetan language of the Bodo–Garo branch.\n\nIt is closely related to the Bodo and Dimasa languages of neighbouring Assam. The Garo language is also a related language spoken in neighbouring Bangladesh and the state of Meghalaya.\n\nKókborok is not a single language but a collective name for the several languages and dialects spoken in Tripura. \"Ethnologue\" lists Usoi (Kau Brung), Riang (Polong-O), and Khagrachari (\"Trippera\") as separate languages; Mukchak (Barbakpur), though not listed, is also distinct, and the language of many Borok clans has not been investigated. The greatest variety is within Khagrachari, though speakers of different Khagrachari varieties can \"often\" understand each other. Khagrachari literature is being produced in the Naitong and Dendak varieties.\n\nDebbarma Kókborok has the phonology of a typical Sino-Tibetan language.\n\nKokborok has six vowel (monophthong) phonemes: /i u e w o a/.\n\nEarly scholars of Kokborok decided to use the letter w as a symbol for a vowel that does not exist in English. In some localities, it is pronounced closer to i, and in others, it is pronounced closer to o.\n\nIn Kokborok spelling, u is used for the sound in the diphthongs (used initially, spelled as ua) and (used finally, spelled as uo). It is also used for the diphthong (spelled wi) after m and p\n\nCh is used for , while kh, ph, and th are used for , , and respectively.\n\nN' is the pronunciation of the nasal sound; e.g., in' (\"yes\").\n\nNg is a digraph and is generally used in the last syllable of a word; e.g., aming (\"cat\"), holong (\"stone\").\n\nUa is often used initially; e.g., uak (\"pig\"), uah (\"bamboo\"), uatwi (\"rain\").\n\nUo is often used finally; e.g., thuo (\"sleeping\"), buo (\"beat\").\n\nA diphthong is a group of two vowels. The wi diphthong is spoken as ui after sounds of the letters \"m\" and \"p\". Two examples are chumui (\"cloud\") and thampui (\"mosquito\"). The ui diphthong is a variation of the wi diphthong. Other less frequent diphthongs, such as oi and ai, are called closing diphthongs. A closing diphthong refers to a syllable that does not end in a consonant.\n\nMost words are formed by combining the root with an affix:\n\nThere are no Kókborok words beginning with ng. At the end of a syllable, any vowel except \"w\" can be found, along with a limited amount of consonants: \"p\", \"k\", \"m\", \"n\", \"ng\", \"r\" and \"l\". \"Y\" is found only in closing diphthongs like \"ai\" and \"wi\".\n\n\"Clusters\" are a group of consonants at the beginning of a syllable, like \"phl\", \"ph\" + \"l\", in phlat phlat (\"very fast\"), or \"sl\" in kungsluk kungsluk (\"foolish man\"). Clusters are quite impossible at the end of a syllable. There are some \"false clusters\" such as phran (\"to dry\") which is actually phw-ran. These are very common in echo words : phlat phlat, phre phre, prai prai, prom prom, etc.\n\nThere are two tones in Kókborok: high tone and low tone. To mark the high tone, the letter \"h\" is written before the vowel with the high tone. These examples have low tone precedeing high tone to show that tone changes the meaning:\n\nThere is a clear cut difference between nouns and verbs. All true verbs are made with a verbal root followed by a number of suffixes, which are placed not randomly but according to definite rules.\n\nMorphologically Kókborok words can be divided into five categories. They are the following.\n\n(a) Original words: \"thang\"-go; \"phai\"-come; \"borok\"-nation; \"borog-men\" \"kotor\"-big; \"kuchu\"-youngest; \"kwrwi\"-not;etc.\n\n(b) Compound words, that is, words made of more than one original words: \"nai\"-see; \"thok\"-testy; \"naithok\"-beautiful; \"mwtai\"-god; \"nog\"-house; \"tongthar\"-temple; \"bwkha\"-heart; \"bwkhakotor\"-brave; etc.\n\n(c) Words with suffixes: \"swrwng\"-learn; \"swrwngnai\"-learner; \"nugjak\"-seen; \"kaham\"-good; \"hamya\"- bad; etc.\n\n(d) Naturalized loan words: \"gerogo\"-to roll; \"gwdna\"-neck; \"tebil\"- table; \"puitu\"-faith; etc.\n\n(e) Loan words: \"kiching\"-friend; etc.\n\nCounting in Kókborok is called \"lekhamung\".\n\nThere are many Kókborok-speaking tribes in the Indian states of West Bengal, Tripura, Assam, Mizoram and the neighbouring provinces of the country Bangladesh mainly in Chittagong Hill Tracts. There are three main dialects which are not mutually intelligible, though the western dialect of the royal family, Debbarma, is a prestige dialect understood by everyone. It is the standard for teaching and literature. It is taught as the medium of instruction up to class fifth and as subject up to graduate level. The other dialects are Jamatia, Kalai and Noatia.\n\nThe first efforts of writing Kokborok were made by Radhamohan Thakur. He wrote the grammar of Kókborok named \"Kókborokma\" published in 1900, as well as two other books: \"Tripur Kothamala\" and \"Tripur Bhasabidhan\". Tripur Kothamala was the Kókborok-Bengali-English translation book published in 1906. The \"Tripur Bhasabidhan\" was published in 1907.\n\nDaulot Ahmed was a contemporary of Radhamohan Thakur and was a pioneer of writing Kókborok Grammar jointly with Mohammad Omar. The Amar jantra, Comilla published his Kókborok grammar book \"KOKBOKMA\" in 1897.\n\nOn 27 December 1945 the \"Tripura Janasiksha Samiti\" came into being, and it established many schools in different areas of Tripura.\n\nThe first Kókborok magazine \"Kwtal Kothoma\" was edited and published in 1954 by Sudhanya Deb Barma, who was a founder of the Samiti. \"Hachuk Khurio\" (In the lap of Hills) by Sudhanya Deb Barma is the first modern Kókborok novel. It was published by the Kókborok Sahitya Sabha and Sanskriti Samsad in 1987. One major translation of the 20th century was the \"Smai Kwtal\", the New Testament of the Bible in Kókborok language, published in 1976 by the Bible Society of India.\n\nThe 21st century began for Kókborok literature with the monumental work, the Anglo-Kókborok-Bengali Dictionary compiled by Binoy Deb Barma and published in 2002 A.D. by the Kókborok tei Hukumu Mission. This is the 2nd edition of his previous ground breaking dictionary published in 1996 and is a trilingual dictionary. Twiprani Laihbuma (The Rajmala - History of Tripura) translated by R. K. Debbarma and published in 2002 by KOHM.\n\nThe full Holy Bible in Kokborok language was finally published for the first time in the year 2013 by the Bible Society of India. The Baibel Kwthar is currently the largest work and biggest book published in the language with more than 1,300 pages and is now the benchmark for publications in the language.\n\nThe present trend of development of the Kókborok literary works show that Kókborok literature is moving forward slowly but steadily with its vivacity and distinctive originality to touch the rich literature of the rich languages.\n\nMany Tripuri cultural organisations have been working fruitfully for the development of the language since the last century. A list of the present organisations and publication houses are:\n\nGovernment research and publications organisations working in Kokborok development are:\n\nThe Department of Kokborok in Tripura University, Agartala is responsible for the teaching of Kókborok language and literature and started functioning in 2015.\n\nIt runs an M.A (Master of Arts) in Kokborok language, a one-year PG Diploma and a 6 months Certificate course.\n\nThe University grants Bachelor of Arts (B.A) degrees with Kokborok as an elective subject in its various constituent colleges since 2012. The colleges affiliated to the University where Kokborok is taught in the B.A degree are:\n\nA library of Kokborok books has been functioning in Khumulwng town since 2015. It has been set up by the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) through Government funding and is functioning in a building constructed for the library in Khumulwng town near the Khumulwng stadium.\n\nThe library currently holds more than 5,000 books of Kokborok language and related topics.\n\n'Kokborok Tei Hukumu' Mission is a Tripuri cultural organisation which has been established to promote the language and culture of the Tripuri people. The mission was started by Naphurai Jamatia. It has its office in Krishnanagar in Agartala.\n\nIt is the largest publisher of books in Kokborok, most notable of which is the Kokborok Dictionaries by Binoy Debbarma, Anglo-Kokborok Dictionary (1996) and Anglo-Kokborok-Bengali Trilingual Dictionary (2002).\n\nTripura 854,023\n\n-\"Census of India 2001 language report\"\n\nKók-borok has a script known as \"Koloma\", which is not in popular use. From the 19th century, the Kingdom of Twipra used the Bengali script to write in Kók-borok, but since the independence of India and the merger with India, the Roman script is being promoted by non-governmental organisations. The Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) government made regulations in 1992 and 2000 for adoption of the Roman script in the school education system in its areas.\n\nThe script issue is highly politicised, with the Left Front government advocating usage of the Asian Bengali script and all the regional indigenous parties and student organisations (INPT, IPFT, NCT, Twipra Students Federation, etc) and ethnic nationalist organisations (Kokborok Sahitya Sabha, Kokborok tei Hukumu Mission, Movement for Kokborok etc.) advocating for the Roman script.\n\nBoth scripts are now used in the state in education as well as in literary and cultural circles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1280301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1280301", "title": "Languages of Gabon", "text": "Languages of Gabon\n\nThe official language of Gabon is French, while 32% of the people speak Fang as a mother tongue. \nFrench is the medium of instruction. Before World War II very few Gabonese learned French, nearly all of them working in either business or government administration. After the war, France worked for universal primary education in Gabon, and by the 1960-61 census, 47% of the Gabonese over the age of 14 spoke some French, while 13% were literate in the language. By the 1990s, the literacy rate had risen to about 60%.\n\nIt is estimated that 80% of the country's population can speak the language competently and one-third of residents of Libreville, the capital city, had become native French speakers. More than 10,000 French people live in Gabon, and France predominates the country's foreign cultural and commercial influences. Outside the capital, French is less commonly spoken, though it is used by those who have completed a secondary or university education.\n\nThe indigenous languages are all members of the Bantu family, estimated to have come to Gabon about 2,000 years ago, and differentiated into about 40 languages. They are generally spoken but not written; while missionaries from the United States and France developed transcriptions for a number of languages based on the Latin alphabet starting in the 1840s, and translated the Bible into several of them, French colonial policy officially promoted the study of French and discouraged African languages. The languages continue to be transmitted through family and clan, and individuals in cities and other areas where different people may learn several Bantu languages.\n\nThe Gabonese government sponsored research on the Bantu languages starting in the 1970s.\n\nThe three largest languages are Fang, Mbere, and Sira (Eshira), each with about 25–30% of the speakers. The remainder of the languages are single-digit percentages, and some have only a few thousand speakers.\n\nEducation for the deaf in Gabon uses American Sign Language, introduced by the deaf American missionary Andrew Foster. (See Francophone African Sign Language.)\n\nIn October 2012, just before the 14th summit of the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie, the country declared an intention to add English as a second official language, reportedly in response to an investigation by France into corruption in the African country. However, the spokesman for Ali Bongo Ondimba said: \"\"You know very well that once you leave the Francophonie space, if you do not speak English, you are almost handicapped. What is most interesting in the issue is the realization that French writers publish some of their materials in English, and that during international conferences, the French diplomats speak in English. If the French themselves are moving toward English, why would anyone expect the Gabonese not to?\" It was later clarified that the country intended to introduce English as a first foreign language in schools, while keeping French as the general medium of instruction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11446559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11446559", "title": "Loun language", "text": "Loun language\n\nThe Loun language is an extinct Austronesian language once spoken in Indonesia, mainly in the Maluku archipelago.\n"}
{"id": "50619831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50619831", "title": "Multilingualism in India", "text": "Multilingualism in India\n\nThe Constitution of India designates the official languages of India as Hindi and English. The number of bilingual speakers in India is 314.9 million, which is 26% of the population in 2011.\n\nHindi is one of the official languages of India and had 528 million native speakers as of the 2011 Census. About 139 million Indians speak Hindi as a second language and 24 million speak it as their third language.\n\n"}
{"id": "6991615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6991615", "title": "Muriel Porter", "text": "Muriel Porter\n\nMuriel Lylie Porter (née Carter, born 15 May 1948) is an Australian journalist based in Melbourne, Victoria. She is a frequent contributor to \"The Age\" newspaper and \"The Melbourne Anglican\" diocesan newspaper, for which she mostly writes about issues concerning the Anglican Church of Australia in which she is a prominent layperson. Porter is a representative of the Anglican Diocese of Melbourne on the General Synod of the Anglican Church of Australia.\n\nShe is critical of megachurches and is an advocate of the ordination of women, homosexual unions and allowing non-celibate homosexual people to become clergy. She was involved in the formation of an Anglican submission recommending abortion be legalised in Victoria. She is also the author of several books, including \"The New Puritans: the rise of fundamentalism in the Anglican Church\", a book which is a critique of evangelicals in the Anglican Church.\n\nMuriel Porter was born in Sydney, New South Wales, to Richard John Carter and Thelma Edith Richards. She was educated at Riverside Girls High School in Gladesville, the University of New England, the Australian National University, the Australian Catholic University and the University of Melbourne.\n\nPorter began a career in journalism as a cadet at the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" and then worked for a number of different newspapers including the \"Cambridge Evening News\".\n\nPorter was a member of staff at RMIT University in the journalism program and holds an honorary position at the University of Melbourne, lecturing on historical and philosophical studies.\n\nIn 2002 Porter was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia for service to the community as an advocate for women's and social justice issues, and to the Anglican Church of Australia.\n\nPorter's theological view points are liberal. Liturgically she is in the Anglo-Catholic tradition. She has been very active in campaigning for women's ordination in the Diocese of Melbourne and in the Anglican Church in Australia where she serves on the church's general synod.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4035738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4035738", "title": "Musakhel (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Musakhel (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe Musa Khel, or Moosa Khel, is a Pashtun tribe of Gharghasht origin. According to Horace Arthur Rose and the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica, they are part of the greater Kakar tribe. The tribe originates from Ghazni province in Afghanistan and resides in the tribal range of Musakhel and Batagram District in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan and Afghanistan. Moosa Khel has the lowest literacy rate in Pakistan—10.37%—and is also a sub-tribe to Babozai, which is part of the major Pashtun tribe. \n\n"}
{"id": "39031208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39031208", "title": "Nawab Ghous Bakhsh Barozai", "text": "Nawab Ghous Bakhsh Barozai\n\nNawab Ghous Bakhsh Barozai was the interim 20th Chief Minister of Balochistan. He was appointed to the post after nomination by former chief minister Nawab Muhammad Aslam Raisani and the leader of the opposition, Nawabzada Tariq Magsi. Nawab Ghous Bakhsh Barozai is a member of the Barozai clan of the Balailzai tribe.\n"}
{"id": "31493345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31493345", "title": "Nicole Estienne", "text": "Nicole Estienne\n\nNicole Estienne (c.1542-c.1588) was a French poet of the Renaissance.\n\nHer parents were Charles Estienne and Geneviève de Berly. Her father's family was influential in the printing business.\n\nThe writer Jacques Grévin became engaged to her and celebrated her in his collection \"L'Olimpe\". The engagement was broken for unknown reasons. \nNicole then married Jean Liebault, a physician from Dijon.\n\nShe wrote several works, some of which have survived. In response to Philippe Desportes's misogynist writings, she defended women in her \"Stanzes\". Her best known work is \"Les Misères de la Femme mariée, où se peuvent voir les peines et tourmens qu’elle reçoit durant sa vie\", in which she condemned big age differences between spouses and domestic violence.\n\nSome of her poems were written as introductions to the work of other poets.\n"}
{"id": "27446554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27446554", "title": "Padrino system", "text": "Padrino system\n\nPadrino system, or \"patronage\" in the Filipino culture and politics is the value system where one gains favor, promotion, or political appointment through family affiliation (nepotism) or friendship (cronyism), as opposed to one's merit. The \"Padrino System\" in the Philippines has been the source of many controversies and corruption.\n\nIt has been an open secret that one cannot join the political arena of the Philippines without mastery of the Padrino System. From the lowest Barangay official, to the President of the Republic, it is expected that one gains political debts and dispenses political favor to advance one's career or influence, if not wealth.\n\nThe Padrino system sometimes exists in Executive, due to the leader's allegiance to his or her party, supporters and contributors.\n\nThe Constitution of the Philippines in many ways has laid down the foundations against nepotism, cronyism, and oligarchial rule of the few. As a democratic republic, the Philippines is supposed to have a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. However, in reality, one can take a look at the Legislative Branch of the government, and come to a conclusion that it is all on the contrary.\n\nThe issue of political dynasties has always been touched, especially during elections, but the subject has been much avoided by politicians alike who have a wife, son, daughter, or a relative sitting in office as well.\n\nIn September 2008, Sen. Miriam Defensor Santiago passed Senate Bill No. 2616, or the \"Anti-Political Recommendation Act,\" however this as usual has been shelved for the time being and is currently pending at the Committee level.\n\nWhen the pork barrel scam broke out, Senator Jinggoy Estrada claimed that Pres. Benigno Aquino III used the Disbursement Acceleration Program to influence the 188 Congressional Representatives and 20 Senators to approve the impeachment complaint against Renato Corona. On July 2, 2014 the Supreme Court decision on DAP was ruled as unconstitutional.\n\nThe Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) was known as one of the best in the post-World War geopolitical scene in Southeast Asia, if not the whole of Asia. Majority of the officers were graduates from the West Point-styled Philippine Military Academy - which is also considered as Asia's best military academy.\n\nIn order to get a higher rank or office,you must have at least known or befriend a high-ranking official to be promoted.\n\nThis kind of system affect an individual with higher intellect by kicking them out by giving undeserved chance to those close to ones with high position usually in business and politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "2634896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2634896", "title": "Population momentum", "text": "Population momentum\n\nPopulation momentum is a typical consequence of the demographic transition. Even if a high-fertility, high-growth population experiences an immediate drop in fertility to replacement rate, that population will continue to grow for several decades. Eventually, because the new fertility rate is replacement, the population achieves equilibrium at some new level. Population momentum is defined as the ratio of the size of the population at that new equilibrium level to the size of the initial population. Population momentum usually occurs in populations that are growing.\n\nAssume that a population has three generations: First (oldest), Second (child bearing), and Third (children). Further assume that this population has a fertility rate equal to four (4). That is, each generation is twice the size of the previous. If the population of the first generation is arbitrarily set at 100, the second is then 200, and the third is 400. The spreadsheet below shows the initial population in the first row.\nFirst note that the second and third generation of the initial population are each twice the size of the previous. The total of the initial population is 700 = 100 + 200 + 400.\n\nThen assume that at the end of the third generation, fertility falls to replacement (for simplicity assume that to be two). Now take the population forward in time to the next generation, line two of the spreadsheet. The first generation dies, and the new generation, the fourth, is equal to the third (because now fertility is replacement). Repeat the process again to reach the fifth generation (line 3 in the spreadsheet). The fifth generation is again equal to the fourth and now the population’s three generations are equal, and the population has reached equilibrium.\n\nThe initial population has grown from 700 to 1,200 even though fertility dropped from four to replacement (two) at the end of the third generation. Population momentum carried the population to higher levels over the next two generations.\n\nPopulation momentum impacts the immediate birth and death rates in the population that determine the natural rate of growth. However, for the a population to have an absolute zero amount of natural growth, the US National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health suggests that three things must occur.\n\n1. Fertility rates must level off to the replacement rate (the net reproduction rate should be 1). If the fertility rate remains higher than the replacement rate, the population would continue to grow.\n\n2. Mortality rate must stop declining, that is, it must remain constant.\n\n3. Lastly, the age structure must adjust to the new rates of fertility and mortality. This last step takes the longest to complete.\n\nPopulation momentum has implications for population policy for a number of reasons.\n\n1. With respect to high-fertility countries (for example in the developing world), a positive population momentum, meaning that the population is increasing, states that these countries will continue to grow despite large and rapid declines in fertility.\n\n2. With respect to lowest-low fertility countries (for example in Europe), a negative population momentum implies that these countries may experience population decline even if they try to increase their rate of fertility to the replacement rate of 2.1. For example, some Eastern European countries show a population shrinkage even if their birth rates recovered to replacement level. Population momentum can become negative if the fertility rate is under replacement level for a long period of time.\n\n3. Population momentum shows that replacement level fertility is a long-term concept rather than an indication of current population growth rates. Depending on the extant age structure, a fertility rate of two children per woman may correspond to short-term growth or decline.\n\n4. Another implication of population momentum is its effect on the labor force; more specifically the distribution of the labor force[1]. We established earlier that population momentum occurs when a population continues to grow despite the replacement fertility level being met. Meaning that there are more children being born. When there are more children being birthed for that time being until the child is able to work they become dependents meaning that they don't do much to \"contribute\" to their society. Which leads to an unfavorabale dependency ratio. When the children reach the age to work that countries dependency ratio will change and become favorable.\n\nTo calculate population momentum for population A, a theoretical population is constructed in which the birth rate for population A immediately becomes replacement level. Under such conditions, the population will eventually stabilize into a stationary population, with no year-to-year changes in age-specific rates or in total population. The population momentum is calculated by dividing this final total population number by the starting population. Momentum, Ω, can be expressed as:\n\nformula_1\n\nIn this equation, \"b\" is the crude birth rate while \"e\" is the life expectancy at birth. \"Q\" is the total number of births per initial birth.\n\nformula_2\n\nThis equation is used to derive Q (total births per initial birth), \"r\" is the growth rate and \"µ\" is the unchanging population mean age at childbearing. R is the Net Reproduction Rate of the non-changing population.\n\nPopulation momentum is typically caused by a shift in the country's demographic transition. When mortality rates drop, the young survive childhood and the aging population live longer. Fertility rates remain high, causing the overall population size to grow. According to population momentum, even if high fertility rates were immediately replaced with replacement level fertility rates, the population would continue to grow due to the pre-childbearing population entering childbearing years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54402173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54402173", "title": "Pāmitl", "text": "Pāmitl\n\nPāmitl was the Aztec name for a flag or banner containing identifying emblems of officers and prestigious warriors. These have been recorded to have been carried in the hands or more commonly worn on the back in a similar manner to the Japanese uma-jirushi. Each of the Pāmitl is brightly decorated, lightweight, and unique. These features allowed officers better control of their troops on the battlefield while not hampering the combat abilities of the soldier.\n\nSimilarly to much of the other clothing of the nobility of the Aztecs, Pāmitl were most likely made out of a woven cotton with feathers on top of the cotton backing. They were often formed to resemble an animal or religious symbol.\n"}
{"id": "1161274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1161274", "title": "Ravi Arimilli", "text": "Ravi Arimilli\n\nRavi Arimilli (born 1963) is an IBM Fellow and Chief Architect. Largely responsible for development of the POWER5, he is one of the most prolific inventors in the world, being awarded 78 patents in 2002 and a further 53 in 2003. He has over 507 patents to his name and is listed among the most prolific inventors in the world as measured by U.S. utility patents.\n\nArimilli moved with his family to the United States from Andhra Pradesh, India, in 1969. He studied at Louisiana State University, and joined IBM in 1985. His expertise includes symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) system structures, cache/memory hierarchies and system bus protocols.\n\n"}
{"id": "1422017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1422017", "title": "Rentier state", "text": "Rentier state\n\nIn political science and international relations theory, a rentier state is a state which derives all or a substantial portion of its national revenues from the rent of indigenous resources to external clients. This theory was first postulated by Hossein Mahdavy in 1970. It was also in this article that the concept of \"external rent\" was first introduced.\n\nMahdavy's usage of the term is in stark contrast to how the term was originally used by Marxists. Lenin wrote in 1916: \"For that reason the term “rentier state” (Rentnerstaat), or usurer state, is coming into common use in the economic literature that deals with imperialism. The world has become divided into a handful of usurer states and a vast majority of debtor states. (...)\" According to the Great Soviet Encyclopedia, a rentier state \"enriches itself by exporting capital to other states, primarily those that are economically underdeveloped and dependent.\" This is better known in English as Rentier capitalism.\n\nThe term \"rentier state\" has been used since the 20th century. It is most frequently applied to states rich in highly valued natural resources such as petroleum but can also include states rich in financial instruments such as a reserve currency. It can also be applied to nations which trade on their strategic resources, such as an important military base.\n\nDependent upon it as a source of income, rentier states may generate rents externally by manipulating the global political and economic environment. Such manipulation may include monopolies, trading restrictions, and the solicitation of subsidies or aid in exchange for political influence or conversely the solicitation of loans in exchange for the reserve currency, e.g., the United States.\n\nHazem Al Beblawi and Giacomo Luciani suggested four characteristics of a rentier state:\n\n\nThe emergence of the new oil states and their increasing importance in world trade in the 1970s brought a renewed interest in thinking on rentier economies in the aforementioned disciplines of political science and international relations. Examples of rentier states include oil-producing countries in the MENA region including Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Iran, Kuwait, Qatar, Libya and Algeria as well as a few states in Latin America, all of whom are members of OPEC. African states such as Nigeria, Gabon, Angola, Ghana, Uganda and South Sudan are also important oil producers with rentier economies, earning income from trading natural resources.\n\nRentier state theory has been one of several advanced to explain the predominance of authoritarian regimes in the Middle East and the apparent lack of success of democracy in the region. While many states export resources or license their development by foreign parties, rentier states are characterized by the relative absence of revenue from domestic taxation, as their naturally occurring wealth precludes the need to extract income from their citizenry. According to Douglas Yates, the economic behavior of a rentier state\nembodies a break in the work-reward causation ... [r]ewards of income and wealth for the rentier do not come as the result of work but rather are the result of chance or situation.\nHazem Beblawi and Giacomo Luciani have argued that this could create a \"rentier mentality,\" while political scientist Fareed Zakaria has posited that such states fail to develop politically because, in the absence of taxes, citizens have less incentive to place pressure on the government to become responsive to their needs. Instead, the government essentially 'bribes' the citizenry with extensive social welfare programs, becoming an \"allocation\" or \"distributive state\". The budget, in effect, is little more than an expenditure programme.\n\nIt has also been theorized that governments that rely to a significant extent on revenues from non-market sources are not compelled to apply free market principles to create an environment conducive to economic growth. Oil is in such demand that it does not require adherence to free market principles and economic freedom based on rule of law, security, a fair and transparent judiciary and property rights. As a consequence, political freedom does not develop and efforts aimed at democratization are undermined.\n\nMoreover, because control of the rent-producing resources is concentrated in the hands of the authorities, it may be used to alternately coerce or coopt their populace, while the distinction between public service and private interest becomes increasingly blurred. There is, in the words of Noah Feldman in his book \"After Jihad\",\nno fiscal connection between the government and the people. The government has only to keep its people in line so that they do not overthrow it and start collecting the oil rents themselves. (Feldman 139)\n\nConsequently, in these resource-rich rentier states there is a challenge to developing civil society and democratization. Hence, theorists such as Beblawi and Luciani conclude that the nature of rentier states provides a particular explanation for the presence of authoritarian regimes in such resource rich states.\n\nBeblawi and Luciani identify several other characteristics particularly associated with rentier oil states. For example, where the government is the largest and ultimate employer, the bureaucracy is frequently bloated and inefficient – and indeed comes to resemble a rentier class in society. Moreover, local laws often make it impossible for foreign companies to operate independently. This leads to a situation where citizenship becomes a financial asset. To do business, foreign enterprises engage a local sponsor (\"kafil\") who allows the company to trade in his name in return for a proportion of the proceeds – another type of rent. In addition, the oil rent leads to secondary rents, usually stock market or real estate speculation.\n\nRentier state theory foregrounds important puzzles in contemporary politics. For example, as Abulof asks, “If rents increase regime stability, especially authoritarian durability, why, then, are rentier regimes, particularly in authoritarian petro-states, more prone to civil wars?” Looking at the Middle East, “why have certain rentier states (such as Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates) remained so remarkably stable, while others (such as Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Libya and Sudan) have become—either before or during the Arab Spring—scenes of violent unrest?” Abulof points to political legitimacy is a determining factor, and argues that authoritarian rentier regimes are in fact more fragile than they seem to be.\n\nThe crucial nature of oil has led to a situation where non-oil states have started to behave like rentier states. This can be seen for the region as a whole – so some states have been able to exploit location rent due to their strategic location, for example, as sites for military bases. More significantly, inter-state relations in the region have been affected as oil states try to ensure stability and tranquillity for their rent by buying allegiance from neighbouring states – in effect, sharing the oil rent. Beblawi and Luciani highlight the case of Egypt whose receipt of financial aid from oil-rich neighbours declined significantly after Camp David, and money going instead to Iraq, Syria and the PLO who were considered more assertive.\n\nImportantly, scholars have tied rentier theory to the process of disenfranchisement and ultimately radicalization, posing that the breakdown of the citizen-state relationship can ultimately foster non-economically motivated radicalism. This is particularly important, given the geographic positioning of today's rentier states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2036462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036462", "title": "Russian lacquer art", "text": "Russian lacquer art\n\nRussian lacquer art developed from the art of icon painting which came to an end with the collapse of Imperial Russia. The icon painters, who previously had been employed by supplying not only churches but people's homes, needed a way to make a living. Thus, the craft of making papier-mâché decorative boxes and panels developed, the items were lacquered and then hand painted by the artists, often with scenes from folk tales.\n\nThe village of Fedoskino (Федоскино), located not far from Moscow on the banks of the Ucha River, is the oldest of the four art centers of Russian lacquer miniature painting on papier-mâché, which has been practiced there since 1795. It stands apart both geographically, and in that that oil paints are used rather than egg tempera. While allowing the artist a free hand in impressionistic interpretation, the style of Fedoskino painting is largely realistic in composition and detail.\n\nThe other three Russian lacquer art centers are:\n\nThe lacquer artists of Palekh, Kholui and Mstera continue to use the technique of painting in egg-based tempera overlaid with intricate gold leaf highlighting.\"\n\nAll three are situated in the Vladimir-Suzdal Principality, Ivanovo region of central Russia, and are deeply rooted in the 17th-19th century icon painting tradition, which lasted until the Russian Revolution of 1917 and is now being revived by young artists of the 21st century.\n\n"}
{"id": "27671687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27671687", "title": "Sai caste", "text": "Sai caste\n\nThe Sai or sometimes pronounced Sayee are a Muslim community found in the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in India. They are also known as the Sain.\n\nThe Sai are one of a number of Muslim mendicant communities traditionally connected with begging at Sufi shrines in North India. They are also involved in the manufacture of tazias for the Muharram festival, as well as grave digging. Very little is known about their origin, and they could have evolved from a number of different communities who took up the profession of begging and grave digging. The Sai are found mainly in eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. They speak the Awadhi dialect, and much in common with the Jogi Faqir, another Muslim mendicant community. Most Sai claim to be of Shaikh status.\n\nThe Sayee of Bihar claim to belong to the Shaikh Siddiqui community, and claim descent from Abu Bakar, the first caliph of Islam. Like other Muslim communities of Bihar, they date their origin to the time of Bakhtiyar Khilji, the Muslim conqueror of Bihar. They have several sub-divisions, the main ones being the Madari, Rafai, Jalali, Mewati and Sada-Sohgal. They are found mainly in Patna, Gaya, Nalanda and Muzaffarpur districts. The Sayee speak Urdu, with most understanding Hindi.\n\nThe Sai shah fakir are endogamous, marrying within close kin. Their traditional occupation was takyadar\n, but over time a small number have acquired land, much of gifted by the other communities because of their supposed sanctity. A good many are now marginal farmers or sharecroppers. The urban Sai have remained involved in their traditional occupation of begging and grave digging. A small number of Sai are now village mullahs as well. The community are Sunni Muslims, and fairly orthodox.\nThe Sayee in Bihar are landless, with many still engaged in their traditional occupation of begging. In some parts of Rajasthan, Sayee are called Banwa or Jhunjhunwati Sayee and they are involved in singing and the band owner profession. A good many are landless agricultural labourers, while some have acquired some land. Like their Uttar Pradesh counterparts, some Sai are now employed as village mullahs.\n"}
{"id": "35898391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35898391", "title": "Satawalese language", "text": "Satawalese language\n\nSatawalese is a Micronesian language of the Federated States of Micronesia. It is nearly intelligible with Mortlockese.\n\nSatawalese is a language spoken on the island of Satawal, located in the Federated States of Micronesia. The language is also spoken in Yap State, nearby atolls and islands such as Lamotrek, Woleai, Puluwat, Pulusuk, and Chuuk State. Smaller populations of speakers can also be found in Saipan, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and some parts of the United States. According to a 1987 census, Satawalese is spoken by approximately 460 people however this number has grown, according to a count taken by researcher Kevin Roddy who reported for about 700 speakers in 2007.\n\nSatawalese is identified as an Austronesian language and is a member of the Truukic language subgroup. Discovered by scholar Edward Quackenbush, the Truukic subgroup is a dialect chain composed of a variety of about 17 different languages and dialects extending 2,100 kilometers across the western Pacific (Roddy, 2007). This chain begins at Chuuk in the east and stretches towards Sonsorol in the west. In the center of this dialect continuum lies Satawalese. Using the comparative method, which involves the observation of vocabulary and sound correspondence similarities, linguists were able to link Satawalese as well as its sister languages to the Trukic language family. Sister languages of Satawalese include Carolinian, Chuukese, Mapia, Mortlockese, Namonuito, Paafang, Puluwatese, Sonsorol, Tanapag, Tobian, Ulithian, and Woleaian.\n\nSatawalese language contains 13 specific consonants. /p/, /f/, /m/, /w/, /n/, /t/, /s/, /r/, /j/, /k/, /t͡ʃ/, /ŋ/, /ɻ/\n\nThe existence of the phoneme is debated in Satawalese. Some scholars believe the phoneme to be an allophone of the phoneme . It is suggested that in Satawalese language both phonemes can be interchanged without changing the meaning of a word. Opposing studies suggest to be its own separate phoneme. Because of evidence that shows use of on its own within Satawalese speech, the suggestion that it is its own phoneme has a stronger stance.\n\nThe phoneme in Satawalese has been identified as an allophone for the phoneme due to influence of surrounding languages. is not included in the Satawalese phoneme inventory but is a part of similar languages close in proximity. This phone is understood to convey the same meanings that phoneme will produce but in surrounding languages there are cases where roles cannot be reversed; will be able to take the place of but cannot take the place of .\n\nSatawalese contains nine vowels:/i/, /a/, /o/, /u/, /æ/, /ɛ/, /ʉ/, /ɞ/, /ɒ/.\n\nSatawalese use Subject-Object-Verb word order.\n\nEx:\nMary a foato-ki tinikii we aan “Mary wrote her letter.”\n\nReduplication is available in the Satawalese language. It is used mainly to show a progressive form of a verb, noun, or adjective.\n\nEx\n\nLike most Pacific languages as well as many languages around the world, Satawalese takes advantage of a base ten counting system. The Satawalese language contains two basic counting systems (Roddy, 2007). One system is the fast version, which is the version used for counting objects as well as game playing. The second counting system in Satawal is the slow version. This system is used when teaching young children the numeral system, and is also used by older generations.\nSlow version Fast version English translation\n\nLarge numbers are also existent in the Satawalese language. All numbers greater than ten are produced by using the conjunction \"me\", which translates to the word “and” in English. For example, the numeral eleven is \"seig me ew\", which translates to “ten and one” in English or eleven. One billion is the largest numeral in the Satawalese language. It is expressed as \"engeras ssen\" or \"one thousand million\".\n\n\nSatawalese has borrowed words from major language countries that had traveled throughout the Pacific such as Japan, Spain, and the United States, as well as nearby languages within the Federated States of Micronesia, such as Woleaian and Ulithian.\n\nWords derived from English:\n\nWords derived from Ulithian:\n\n\nWords derived from Spanish:\n\nWords derived from Japanese:\n\nWords derived from Woleaian:\n\nSatawalese language resources have become quite abundant in the past decade. Alphabet books, translations, as well as dictionaries are all available in the Satawalese language. Also linguistic studies have been documented sharing the language’s grammar, phonology, vocabulary, stories, etc.\n\nAccording to endangeredlanguages.com Satawalese is classified as an endangered language. However, the language Satawalese shows lots of promise for the future. Satawalese is spoken as an L1 by most of the population occupying the island of Satawal. It is also used throughout the Federated States of Micronesia as well as nearby states. Also, according to David Roddy the population of Satawalese speakers has grown to 700 in an accounting taken in 2007. Awareness of the island has been a current enhancement to the language due to the contributions made of voyager Mau Piailug who was known to have been the first navigator aboard the ship of the infamous Hawaiian double-hulled canoe the Hokulea. With this discovery, interest in the island including the people, culture, and language have been uprooted, meaning more linguistic studies can be done, possibly more resources can be added, and so on. Finally, the Satawalese language documentation is outstanding. As stated before dictionaries and alphabet books have been created allowing the transmission of the language to occur between older and younger generations.\n\n"}
{"id": "48648215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48648215", "title": "Serbs of Montenegro", "text": "Serbs of Montenegro\n\nSerbs of Montenegro ( / ) or Montenegrin Serbs ( / ) , compose the second largest ethnic group in Montenegro (28.7% of country's population), after the Montenegrins.\n\nFollowing the Slavic(Serb and Croat) settlement of the Balkans in the 6th and 7th centuries, several principalities were established in the Western Balkans towards the Adriatic. Duklja, first mentioned in the \"De Administrando Imperio\" ( 960), was one of the Serbian principalities that came under Byzantine rule in 1018 after Basil II's conquest of Bulgaria. The Serbs were the Empire's \"most important but insubodinate subjects in the western Balkans\". Duklja broke away from Byzantine rule in 1042 under ruler Stefan Vojislav and became the leading Serbian state until the 12th century. All of what is today Montenegro came under the rule of Grand Prince Stefan Nemanja, the founder of the Nemanjić dynasty, after 1180. Zeta, formerly known as Duklja, became a less important region in the Serbian state. Nevertheless, it remained a crown land, given to the heir of the monarch. Several monasteries date to this period, such as: Praskvica, Banja, Morača, Vranjina, and others.\nMontenegro saw independence under the Petrović-Njegoš dynasty, firstly as a principality and then as a kingdom. Both Kingdoms fought together as independent states in the Balkan Wars and in the First World War. At the end of the war in 1918 tensions arose between the two states as the Montenegrin Whites with Serbian support deposed Nicholas I of Montenegro and proclaimed Montenegro's unification with Serbia as part of Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (renamed into Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929), while the Montenegrin Greens opposed it. The conflict led to the Christmas Uprising, in which the Whites with support from the Serbian army defeated the Greens. During the period of the monarchic Yugoslavia, ruled by the Serbian Karađorđević dynasty, the tensions between Serbs and Croats were increasing and most of the Montenegrin politicians supported the Serbian proposed centralised state.\nDuring the Second World War both Serbs and Montenegrins were very active in both resistance movements, the Yugoslav Partisans and the Yugoslav Army in the Fatherland known as the Chetniks. At the end of the war the socialist Yugoslavia was created and the two became republics within the Yugoslav federation.\n\nYugoslav Partisan Milovan Djilas described himself as a Montenegrin Serb and described Montenegro as the spiritual homeland of Serbs, saying \"I am not a Montenegrin because I am a Serb, but a Serb because I am a Montenegrin. We Montenegrins are the salt of the Serbs. All the strength of the Serbs is not here [in Montenegro] but their soul is.\" Djilas also has said \"The Montenegrins are, despite provincial and historical differences, quintessentially Serbs, and Montenegro the cradle of Serbian myths and of aspirations for the unification of Serbs.\".\n\nAfter the secession of Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia in 1991 and 1992, SR Montenegro held the Montenegrin referendum in 1992 which ended with a 95.96% of votes in favour for a state union with Serbia and with the changing of the socialist political system towards a multi-party one. The country was renamed Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In this period between 1990 and 1998 Montenegro was ruled by Momir Bulatović who had close relations with the Serbian president Slobodan Milošević and who was very supportive to keep close ties between the two republics within the state union. Montenegro was also included by the economic sanctions imposed to Serbia during the 1990s. During the 1999 NATO bombing of Yugoslavia both Serbia and Montenegro suffered the attacks of the NATO forces and several targets inside Montenegro were also bombarded. All this contributed to the rise in power in Montenegro of Milo Đukanović who was known to be much less sympathetic towards the Serbo-Montenegrin ties and would become an open supporter of the independence of Montenegro. In 2006, six years after the fall of Milošević in 2000, and after insisting on international diplomacy, the former Yugoslavia became known as the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. The process of becoming a single state union ironically lead to the separation of the two states - a change which was officiated by the referendum on Montenegrin independence on 21 May 2006. A total of 419,240 votes were cast, representing 86.5% of the total electorate. Of them, 230,661 votes or 55.5% were in favour of independence and 185,002 votes or 44.5% were against.\n\nSince independence, the Montenegrin society has been divided among many issues. The independence supporters are advocating for the creation of a separate Montenegrin language, regarded before as a dialect of the Serbian language, including the creation of a new Montenegrin Cyrillic alphabet which is basically the Serbian Cyrillic alphabet with the addition of two new letters. The Serbian population of Montenegro is opposed to the idea of a linguistic separation, just as they are opposed to the separation of the Montenegrin Orthodox Church from the jurisdiction of the Serbian Orthodox Church. The Montenegrin language lacks ISO code, and the Montenegrin Orthodox church is canonically unrecognized.\n\nThe links between the two nations remains strong, and the fact that for the last two centuries a great number of Montenegrins had emigrated to Serbia further strengthens the ties. The Montenegrin littoral is still the main turistic destination for citizens of Serbia, and a large population of Serbians own property in Montenegro. Many of these properties consist of summer homes, and contribute to a seasonal influx of Serbs in Montenegro, during the summers. Despite the geopolitical separation, the economic balance and relationship shared between the two countries continues to be strong.\n\nThe national language of Montenegro has historically and traditionally been called Serbian. According to Pavle Ivić, two sub-dialects of the Shtokavian dialect (of the Serbian language) were spoken in Montenegro: the Eastern Herzegovinian dialect and Zeta-South Sanjak dialect. The Eastern Herzegovinian dialect is spoken in Montenegro, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Today, the national standard is based on the Zeta-South Sanjak dialect.\n\nSome 42.9% of the population of the country speak Serbian as their mother tongue, including 37% of the declared Montenegrins. Serbian was the official language of Montenegro until 2007 when the new Constitution of Montenegro replaced the Constitution of 1992. Amid opposition from pro-Serbian parties, Montenegrin language was made the sole official language of the country and Serbian was given the status of a recognised minority language along with Bosnian, Albanian, and Croatian.\n\nSince 2006, both in linguistic and other aspects of cultural life, ethnic Serbs of Montenegro have been exposed to gradual \"non-coercive\" Montenegrinisation.\n\nThe Serbs are adherents of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the strongest religious institution of Montenegro (with a total of 460,383 followers or 74%). One of the largest places of worship is the Cathedral of the Resurrection of Christ in Podgorica.\n\nThe future of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro has been threatened by the newly formed Montenegrin Orthodox Church which has claimed Serbian Orthodox churches in Montenegro, and is backed by a small percentage of the Orthodox Christians in Montenegro. The government has recognized the church, however none of the Eastern Orthodox churches have. The leader is the controversial Miraš Dedeić, a former Serbian Orthodox clergyman with Serbian nationalist views that after being suspended from the Serbian Church, went to Rome and became a Greek Orthodox clergyman.\n\nHe was later suspended by the Serbian Orthodox Church after committing adultery with a younger woman. In 1997 he was excommunicated by the Holy Synod of the Ecumenical Orthodox Patriarchate of Constantinople from the Eastern Orthodox Church. Montengrin Orthodox Church's leader is anathemized by the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople and banished from Orthodoxy.\n\nThe Montenegrin cap is a traditional hat for ethnic Serbs in Montenegro and in later times the self identifying Montenegrins, originally in the shape of a flat cylinder, having a red upper surface (called \"tepeluk\") not dissimilar to the Herzegovina and Lika caps. It was wholly red until Prince-Bishop Petar II Petrović Njegoš surrounded it with a black rim (called \"derevija\"), and the definition given was as a sign of grief of occupied Kosovo. The Kosovo Myth was very popular in the Prince-Bishopric of Montenegro. The enforcement of the cap upon the Montenegrin chieftains by Peter II was a mark of expression of then's dominating Serbian national identity. The national telling recorded the most often version of the cap as following: the black wrapper was sign of grief for the once big Empire, the red the bloody defeat at the Battle of Kosovo and the five small stripes on the top represent the remaining remains of the once greater Serbian realm, which became increasingly popular amongst the common folk during the reign of Prince Danilo I Petrović-Njegoš. Within the stripes is angled a six star, representing the last free part, Montenegro, shining upon the fallen and conquered. Worn by the rulers and chieftains, the version with the Four Ocil symbol in the star's place had become across the years with growth of nationalism excessively popular amongst the ordinary people, the symbol of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which effectively worked on maintaining and raising the national identity.\n\n\n \nAccording to the 2011 census, Serbs are second largest ethnic group and constitute 28.7% of population of Montenegro. They are absolute majority in three and relative majority in another three municipalities, and constitute less than 20% of population in only four out of total 21 municipalities in the country. Percentage of Serbs in municipalities of Montenegro is as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5074103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074103", "title": "Sheldon Glueck", "text": "Sheldon Glueck\n\nSheldon Glueck (August 15, 1896 – March 10, 1980) was a Polish-American criminologist. He and his wife Eleanor Glueck collaborated extensively on research related to juvenile delinquency and developed the \"Social Prediction Tables\" model for predicting the likelihood of delinquent behavior in youth. They were the first criminologists to perform studies of chronic juvenile offenders and among the first to examine the effects of psychopathy among the more serious delinquents.\n\nBorn in Warsaw, Poland during the Russian Empire, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1920. He received his PhD from Harvard University and taught there from 1925 to 1963.\n\nGlueck's brother Bernard Glueck, Sr. introduced him to his future wife Eleanor, then employed by Bernard. Eleanor and Sheldon Glueck embarked upon an internationally recognized partnership in criminology that would last the remainder of their lives. Their landmark studies of inmates at the Massachusetts Reformatory examined the efficacy of the penal system and recidivism rates. In their controversial 1950 work \"Unraveling Juvenile Delinquency\" the two claimed that potential deviants could be identified by as young as six years of age. They would collaborate on more than 250 publications, beginning with \"Five Hundred Criminal Careers\" (1930), followed by \"Five Hundred Delinquent Women\" (1934) and \"One Thousand Juvenile Delinquents\" (1934). For the juvenile delinquents, they made attempts to predict criminality using statistics, followed by the likelihood of their rehabilitation upon release. They were the first criminologists to perform studies of chronic juvenile offenders and among the first to examine the effects of psychopathy among the more serious delinquents. Their studies showed that psychopathy was 20 times more common among juvenile delinquents. In 1940, they began a ten-year longitudinal study that was published as \"Unraveling Juvenile Delinquency\" (1950). This resulted in the Gluecks' \"Social Prediction Tables\" that gave predictions of the likelihood of juvenile delinquency based upon parameters from when the youths were six years old.\n\nDuring the aftermath of the Holocaust he was one of the leading advocates for the creation of an international criminal court to punish crimes against humanity.\n\nGlueck died in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "20964104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20964104", "title": "Six-legged Soldiers", "text": "Six-legged Soldiers\n\nSix-Legged Soldiers: Using Insects as Weapons of War is a nonfiction scientific warfare book written by award-winning author and University of Wyoming professor, Jeffrey A. Lockwood. Published in 2008 by Oxford University Press, the book explores the history of bioterrorism, entomological warfare, biological warfare, and the prevention of agro-terrorism from the earliest times to modern threats. Lockwood, an entomologist, preceded this book with \"Ethical issues in biological control\" (1997) and \"Locust: The devastating rise and mysterious disappearance of the insect that shaped the American frontier\" (2004), among others.\n\n\"Six-Legged Soldiers\" gives detailed examples of entomological warfare: using buckets of scorpions during a fortress siege, catapulting beehives (\"bee bombs\") across a castle wall, civilians as human guinea pigs in an effort to weaponize the plague, bombarding civilians from the air with infection-bearing insects, and assassin bugs placed on prisoners to eat away their flesh. Lockwood also describes a domestic ecoterrorism example with the 1989 threat to release the Medfly (\"Ceratitis capitata\") within California's crop belt. The last chapter highlights western nations' vulnerability to terrorist attacks.\n\nInterviewed about the book by BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the author describes how a terrorist with a suitcase could bring diseases into a country. \"I think a small terrorist cell could very easily develop an insect-based weapon.\"\n\nIn its January 2009 review, \"The Sunday Times\" criticised the book as being \"scarcely scholarly\" for its mixed collection of myth, legend and historical facts.\n"}
{"id": "47814349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47814349", "title": "The Mood and Feelings Questionnaire", "text": "The Mood and Feelings Questionnaire\n\nThe Mood and Feelings Questionnaire (MFQ) is an inventory tool that measures depressive symptoms in children and young adults. The questionnaire consists of a variety of statements describing feelings or behaviors that may manifest as depressive symptoms in children. The subject is asked to indicate how much each statement applies to their recent experiences. The Mood and Feelings Questionnaire is created both in the form of a self-report questionnaire for the child to complete as well as a parent questionnaire. There is a short version (13 questions) and a long version (33 questions) of both child and parent forms of the MFQ. Several peer-reviewed studies have found the Mood and Feelings Questionnaire to be a reliable and valid measure of depression in children.\n\nThe MFQ is scored by summing together the point values of responses for each item. The response choices and their designated point values are as follows:\n\n\nScores on the short version of the MFQ range from 0 to 26, while scores on the long version range from 0 to 66. Higher scores on the MFQ suggest more severe depressive symptoms. Scoring a 12 or higher on the short version and a 27 or higher on the long version may indicate the presence of depression in the child.\n\n"}
{"id": "4736325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4736325", "title": "Tourism in Cuba", "text": "Tourism in Cuba\n\nTourism in Cuba is an industry that generates over 4.5 million arrivals in 2017, and is one of the main sources of revenue for the island. With its favorable climate, beaches, colonial architecture and distinct cultural history, Cuba has long been an attractive destination for tourists. \"Cuba treasures 253 protected areas, 257 national monuments, 7 UNESCO World Heritage Sites, 7 Natural Biosphere Reserves and 13 Fauna Refuge among other non-tourist zones.\"\n\nHaving been Spain's closest colony to the United States until 1898, in the first part of the 20th century Cuba continued to benefit from big investments, creation of industries, and travel. Its proximity and close relation to the United States also helped Cuba's market economy prosper fairly quickly. As relations between Cuba and the United States deteriorated rapidly after the Cuban Revolution and the resulting expropriation and nationalization of businesses, the island became cut off from its traditional market by an embargo and a travel ban was imposed on U.S. citizens visiting Cuba. The tourist industry declined to record low levels within two years of Castro's accession to power. Unlike the US, Canada normalized relations with Cuba in the 1910s and Canadians increasingly visited Cuba for vacations. Approximately one third of visitors to Cuba each year (in 2014) are Canadians. The Cuban government has moderated its nationalization policies and allowed for private business since 1980. It also pursues revitalization programs aimed at boosting tourism. United States reestablished diplomatic relations with Cuba in 2015 and the tourism industry is expected to greatly benefit from normalized relations with US in the near future.\n\nUntil 1997, contacts between tourists and Cubans were \"de facto\" outlawed by the Communist regime. Following the collapse of Cuba's chief trading partner the Soviet Union, and the resulting economic crisis known as the Special Period, Cuba's government embarked on a major program to restore old hotels, remaining old pre-communism American cars, and restore several Havana streets to their former glory, as well as build beach resorts to bolster the tourist industry in order to bring in much needed finance to the island. To ensure the isolation of international tourism from the state isolated Cuban society, it was to be promoted in enclave resorts where, as much as possible, tourists would be segregated from Cuban society, known to as \"enclave tourism\" and \"tourism apartheid\". By the late 1990s, tourism surpassed Cuba's traditional export industry, sugar, as the nation's leading source of revenue. Visitors come primarily from Canada and western Europe and tourist areas are highly concentrated around Varadero, Cayo Coco, the beach areas north of Holguin, and Havana. The impact on Cuba's socialist society and economy has been significant. However, in recent years Cuba's tourism has decreased due to the economic recession, escalating foreign investment conflicts and fears, and internal economic restrictions. Since its reopening to tourism in the mid-1990s Cuba has not met the projected growth, has had relatively little restoration, and slow growth. A lack of foreign investment has also had a negative effect. Since then, the Dominican Republic has surpassed Cuba in tourism, new development, and investment.\n\nCuba has long been a popular attraction for tourists. Between 1915 and 1930, Havana hosted more tourists than any other location in the Caribbean. The influx was due in large part to Cuba's proximity to the United States, where restrictive prohibition on alcohol and other pastimes stood in stark contrast to the island's traditionally relaxed attitude to leisure pursuits. Such tourism became Cuba's third largest source of foreign currency, behind the two dominant industries of sugar and tobacco. Cuban drinks such as the daiquiri and mojito became common in the United States during this time, after Prohibition was repealed.\n\nA combination of the Great Depression of the 1930s, the end of prohibition, and World War II severely dampened Cuba's tourist industry, and it wasn't until the 1950s that numbers began to return to the island in any significant force. During this period, American organized crime came to dominate the leisure and tourist industries, a modus operandi outlined at the infamous Havana Conference of 1946. By the mid-1950s Havana became one of the main markets and the favourite route for the narcotics trade to the United States. Despite this, tourist numbers grew steadily at a rate of 8% a year and Havana became known as \"the Latin Las Vegas\".\n\nImmediately upon becoming President of Cuba after the Cuban revolution of 1959, Manuel Urrutia ordered the closing of many bars and gambling halls associated with prostitution and the drug trade, this effectively ending Cuba's image as a hedonistic escape. A new governmental body, the National Institute of the Tourism Industry (INTUR), was established to encourage more tourism; taking over hotels, clubs, and beaches making them available to the general public at low rates. Tourist board chief Carlos Almonia announced a program of huge investment in hotels and the creation of a new airport. But fears of Cuba's post-revolutionary status amongst Americans, who constituted 8 out of 10 of visitors, meant a rapid decrease in travel to the island.\n\nIn January 1961, relations between the nations deteriorated as a result of bank and business expropriations, mass exodus, summary executions, and private property being declared illegal by a now openly communist regime being backed by the USSR. Tourism travel to Cuba was soon declared by the U.S. State Department to be contrary to U.S. foreign policy and against the national interest. Tourism that year dropped to a record low of a mere 4180, forcing a dramatic downsizing of Cuba's tourist plans. Visitors to Cuba during the 1960s, 70s and 80s were comparatively rare. The number of tourists to the island did increase slowly, but it wasn't until 1989 that they were to equal pre-Revolutionary numbers.\n\nThe collapse of the communist regimes in Eastern Europe in 1989 and the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991 caused a crisis in the Cuban economy. The Soviets were Cuba's chief trading partner, and had effectively sheltered Cuba's sugar industry with large subsidies for 30 years. The lack of economic diversification during this period, and the sudden loss of key markets sent the country into a deep economic depression known in Cuba as the Special Period. The crisis precipitated the communist regime to find new avenues of income.\n\nPolicies were drawn up to satisfy the growing tourist markets of Canada and Europe with an aim to replace Cuba's reliance on the sugar industry and gain much needed foreign currency rapidly. A new Ministry of Tourism was created in 1994, and the Cuban state invested heavily in tourist facilities. Between 1990 and 2000, more than $3.5 billion was invested in the tourist industry. The number of rooms available to international tourists grew from 12,000 to 35,000, and the country received a total of 10 million visitors over that period. By 1995 the industry had surpassed sugar as Cuba's chief earner.\n\nToday, travelers from around the world visit Cuba, arriving by a mixture of scheduled and charter airlines to one of Cuba's ten international airports. By far the largest number come from Canada, where arrivals have been increasing by almost 10% annually since 2007. Europeans follow next, primarily arriving from Great Britain, Spain, Italy, France and Germany. According to the official government agency, it is unknown exactly how many Americans travel to Cuba each year as tourists, in violation of U.S. trade policy. According to some statistics around 20,000 to 30,000 Americans illegally travel to Cuba every year, while the Cuban government puts it higher at over 60,000. Americans either fly on the direct charter flights or reach Cuba via flights from Canada or Mexico. In June 2016, the US government authorised six airlines to start direct scheduled flights, but this was later revoked by President Trump in 2017.\n\nUntil 2015, all visitors paid a $25 exit tax at the airport prior to departure but this is now included in the costs of the flight.\n\nForeign investment in the Cuban tourism sector has increased steadily since the tourism drive. This has been made possible due to constitutional changes to Cuba's socialist command economy, to allow for the recognition of foreign held capital. By the late 1990s, twenty five joint foreign and domestic venture companies were working within Cuba's tourist industry. Foreign investors and hoteliers from market based economies have found that Cuba's centralized economy and bureaucracy has created particular staffing issues and higher costs than normal. An additional factor cited by foreign investors is the degree of state involvement at the executive level, which is far higher than average.\n\nThe influx of foreign capital, and associated capitalist management methods, led outside observers to question whether Cuba's socialist system could survive the resulting transformation. Fidel Castro responded in 1991,\n\"In the conditions of a small country like Cuba... It is very difficult to develop... relying on one's own resources. It is for this reason that we have no alternative but to associate ourselves with those foreign enterprises that can supply capital, technology, and markets.\" \nCastro was also of the belief that despite the undeniable influence of \"capitalist ideology\", socialism would prevail both in Cuba and the wider \"battle of ideas\".\n\nThe Cuban government has established safeguards designed to ensure that tourism and other development do not result in significant environmental impacts. The development of new tourist facilities and related infrastructure in Cuba must, among other things, proceed in accordance with Cuban environmental laws and policies. In 1995 the Cuban government established the Ministry of Science, Technology, and Environment (CITMA) and in 1997 the National Assembly has enacted Law 81 of the Environment, one of the most comprehensive \"framework\" environmental laws in the region. Pursuant to that Law, the government adopted a number of decree laws and resolutions aimed at ensuring that future development (including tourism development) is sustainable. Of particular importance to tourism development is Decree Law 212, Coastal Zone Management, which establishes setbacks and other siting requirements for new facilities in coastal areas. CITMA Resolution 77/99 requires a thorough environmental assessment of major new construction projects and requires that project developers obtain an environmental license from CITMA.\n\nAs well as receiving traditional tourism revenues, Cuba attracts health tourists, generating annual revenues of around $40 million for the Cuban economy. Cuba has been a popular health tourism destination for more than 20 years. In 2005, more than 19,600 foreign patients traveled to Cuba for a wide range of treatments including eye surgery, neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease, and orthopaedics. Many patients are from Latin America, although medical treatment for retinitis pigmentosa, often known as night blindness, has attracted many patients from Europe and North America.\n\nSome complaints have arisen that foreign \"health tourists\" paying with dollars receive a higher quality of care than do Cuban citizens. Former leading Cuban neurosurgeon and dissident Dr. Hilda Molina asserts that the central revolutionary objective of free, quality medical care for all has been eroded by Cuba's need for foreign currency. Molina says that following the economic collapse known in Cuba as the Special Period, the Cuban government established mechanisms designed to turn the medical system into a profit-making enterprise, thus creating a disparity in the quality of healthcare services between Cubans and foreigners.\n\nThe recent studies shows that Cuba has a huge potential for mountaineering activity, however, it is not utilized properly. The mountaineering in Cuba should be considered to be one of the key contributors (as well as other forms of active tourism e.g. biking, diving, caving) to the development, prosperity, and well-being of all stakeholders, and especially for the communities outside the tourism enclaves. Furthermore, mountaineering regions mostly lie outside the enclaves, so no conflict will exist between active and all-inclusive tourism. And what is most important is that tourism product diversification (both product and spatial) can be achieved. Furthermore, by creating spatial and thematic product links as well as synergies (also with all-inclusive tourism), mountaineering, as well as other forms of active tourism (e.g. biking, diving, caving) often develop in destinations.\n\nAlthough Fidel Castro sought to eliminate prostitution after taking power, the discrepancy between typical Cuban wages (less than one US dollar per day) and the spending power of foreign tourists lures some Cubans, including minors, into prostitution. However, allegations of widespread sex tourism have been downplayed by Cuban justice minister Maria Esther Reus. According to the Miami Herald, prostitution is not illegal in Cuba, but procuring a prostitute for others is outlawed. The age of sexual consent on the island is 16. According to a travel advice website by the government of Canada, \"Cuba is actively working to prevent child sex tourism, and a number of tourists, including Canadians, have been convicted of offences related to the corruption of minors aged 16 and under. Prison sentences range from 7 to 25 years.\" It is illegal to import or produce pornography in Cuba.\n\nWhile the growth of tourism has benefited the city of Havana economically, there have been several negative side effects. One such side effect is the revival of sex tourism in the city. Sex tourism was a central part of the tourism industry before the Revolution. However, after 1960, prostitution was essentially eradicated on the island due to government initiatives and a significant drop in demand as tourism was minimized. With tourism becoming more prevalent in the 1990s, however, so did the practice of prostitution. The demographic profile of tourists (the overwhelming majority being men between ages 25–60) is a key indicator of the existence of prostitution. Additionally, websites and magazines, such as Playboy, have outlined the opportunities for both heterosexual and homosexual sex tourism. According to Trumbull, many prostitutes engage in the practice out of economic necessity, but they do not work in oppressive conditions and a large number of prostitutes in contemporary Havana see the work as a way to earn a better living than if they were to work in open jobs throughout the city. Therefore, contemporary prostitution is different than the sex tourism of the 1950s in this regard.\n\nCuba remains one of the few countries with an economy established by a centralized government. Among those countries, only Cuba possesses a large international tourism sector . The fall of the USSR and the U.S embargo imposed in 1961 affected Cuba’s tourism sector. Cuba was dependent on the USSR and after its collapse saw tourism as an option to reduce the effects of the crisis. Cuba’s touring numbers began to decrease during the 1960s through the 1980s due to the U.S embargo during the Cold War. Additionally, almost 62,000 tourists traveled to Cuba in 1960, 4180 tourists in 1961 and then almost zero over the next 20 years . Also, new hotels were built and old hotels were renovated to draw more international visitors . When Raul Castro rose to power in 2008, he implemented infrastructure reform to help reduce the effects of the Cuban revolution. The Cuban government built beach resorts in order to further expand tourism. Castro’s reform policies led to increased tourism and large economic success in Cuba. In fact 2.7 million people visited Cuba in 2011, while only 340,000 people toured Cuba in 1990 . The National GDP increased from 30.69 billion in 2002 to 114.10 billion in 2010 . While infrastructure reform benefitted Cuba’s GDP and tourism numbers, average spending decreased from $1,310 in 1995 to $876 in 2015. Furthermore, Cuba ranks one of the lowest for returns in the travel industry. Contributing to the low rank: low quality food, poor customer service, and affordability. These issues must be resolved in order to maintain Cuba’s tourism economically in the long-term .\n\nIn the context of tourism, a private residence in Cuba which has been converted to allow paid lodging, usually on a short-term basis, akin to bed and breakfast residences elsewhere, is usually referred to as a \"casa particular\", which simply means \"private house\". These are typically single-family residences, and are a very popular choice for tourists. Prices can range from 15 to 30 euros per night or less for longer stays. The casas provide an inexpensive option for young or independent tourists. A stay in a private casa allows tourists more opportunity to mix with local Cubans, and engage in Cuban cultural life.\n\nAs tourism played an increasing role in the economy, a large percentage of young people migrate to resort towns seeking employment in the tourism industry. Many of them working in menial jobs can earn more through tips than they can employed as professionals. Thus, there is an economic and social divide emerging in Cuba between those employed in the tourist industry and others.\n\nBetween 1992 and 2008, in order to gain the much-needed hard currency, some hotels and resorts were opened only to foreign tourists, leading to accusations of \"tourism apartheid\". The policy was reversed by the Cuban government in 2008.\n\nCuba's tourism policies of the early 1990s, which were driven by the government's pressing need to earn hard currency, had a major impact on the underlying egalitarianism espoused by the Cuban revolution. Two parallel economies and societies quickly emerged, divided by their access to the newly legalized U.S. dollar. Those having access to dollars through contact with the lucrative tourist industry suddenly found themselves at a distinct financial advantage over professional, industrial and agricultural workers.\n\nTo ensure the isolation of international tourism from Cuban society, tourism was to be promoted in enclave resorts where, as much as possible, tourists would be segregated from Cuban society. This was not lost on the average Cuban citizen, and the government tourism policy soon began to be referred to as \"enclave tourism\" and \"tourism apartheid\".\n\nIn 1992, as Cuba entered a period of severe economic austerity, Fidel Castro defended the newly instituted policies in a speech to the Cuban National Assembly. He described the moves as an economic necessity that would need to be maintained for as long as the country had a need for foreign currency. According to Castro, the government was \"pondering formulas\" that would allow Cubans to use some of the tourist facilities as a reward for outstanding work, but he believed that giving Cubans access to amenities at the expense of paying foreign tourists would ultimately be a counterproductive move for the economy.\n\nUntil 1997, contact between tourists and Cubans was \"de facto\" outlawed, and Cubans seen in contact with tourists were regarded as potential thieves by police. Global human-rights groups' complaints, and the upcoming visit of The Pope, helped cause an about-face, although such contact is still frowned upon. Police often demand identification checks of any Cubans seen in contact with tourists. Tourist identification is usually not checked unless the tourist has dark skin and is mistaken for Cuban. Despite the restrictions, average Cubans thrive on Cuba's tourist industry, and many simply see the policy as inevitable.\nThe policy of restricting certain hotels and services to tourists was ended by the government of Raúl Castro in March 2008. As well as officially allowing Cubans to stay in any hotel, the change also opened access to previously restricted areas such as Cayo Coco. However, access remains very limited in practice, as the vast majority of Cubans do not have access to the hard currency needed to stay in such hotels.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14130977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14130977", "title": "Women in China", "text": "Women in China\n\nThe lives of women in China have significantly changed throughout reforms in the late Qing Dynasty, the Republican period, the Chinese Civil War, and rise of the People's Republic of China, which had announced publicly on the commitment toward gender equality. Efforts the new Communist government made toward gender equality were met with resistance in the historically male-dominated Chinese society, and obstacles continue to stand in the way of women seeking to gain greater equality in China.\n\nPre-modern Chinese society was predominantly patriarchal and patrilineal from at least the 11th century BC onwards. The freedoms and opportunities available to women varied depending on the time period and regional situation. The status of women was, like that of men, closely tied to the Chinese kinship system. There has long been a son preference in China, leading to high rates of female infanticide, as well as a strong tradition of restricting the freedom of movement of women, particularly upper class women, manifested through the practice of foot binding. The legal and social status of women has greatly improved in the 20th century, especially in the 1970s after the One-Child Polity and Reform and Opening-up Policy came out.\n\nTraditional marriage in prerevolutionary China was a contract between families rather than between two individuals. The parents of the soon-to-be groom and bride arranged the marriage with an emphasis on the alliance between the two families. Spouse selection was based on family needs and the socioeconomic status of the potential mate, rather than love or attraction. Although the woman's role varied slightly depending on the social status of the husband, typically her main duty was to provide a son in order to continue the family name.\n\nAn arranged marriage was accomplished by a matchmaker who acted as a link between two families. The arrangement of a marriage involved the negotiation of a bride price, gifts to be bestowed to the bride's family, and occasionally a dowry of clothing, furniture, or jewelry from the family of the bride for use in her new home. The exchange of monetary compensation for a woman's hand in marriage was also utilized in purchase marriages in which women were seen as property that could be sold and traded at the husband's whim.\n\nAlong with many of the older Chinese traditions surrounding marriage, there were also many ritualistic steps that took place. During the time of the Han Dynasty a marriage lacking a dowry or betrothal gift was seen as dishonorable. Only after gifts were exchanged did the real steps continue on, brides were taken to live in the ancestral homes of their husbands. Here, they were not only expected to live with the entirety of her husband's family, but to follow all of their rules and beliefs as well. Many families during this time followed the Confusion teachings regarding honoring their elders, these rituals were passed down from father to son and so forth, official family lists were made up that contained names of all the sons and marital wives. Thus, brides who did not produce a son were written out of family lists and forgotten. Further, when a husband dies the bride is seen as property of her spouse's family. Ransoms were set by some bride families to get their daughters back, though never with her children who remained in the property of her husband's family.\n\nJohn Engel, a professor of Family Resources at the University of Hawaii, argues that in order to redistribute wealth and achieve a classless society, the People's Republic of China established the Marriage Law of 1950. The law \"was intended to cause ... fundamental changes ... aimed at family revolution by destroying all former patterns . .. and building up new relationships on the basis of new law and new ethics.\" Xiaorong Li, a researcher at the Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy at the University of Maryland, asserts that the Marriage Law of 1950 not only banned the most extreme forms of female subordination and oppression, but also gave women the right to make their own marital decisions. The Marriage Law specifically prohibited concubinage and marriages when one party was sexually powerless, suffered from a venereal disease, leprosy, or a mental disorder. Thirty years after the implementation of the 1950 Marriage Law, China still faces serious issues, particularly in regards to population growth.\n\nIn a continuing effort to control marriage and family life, a marriage law was passed in 1980 and enacted in 1981. The Marriage Law banned arranged and forced marriages and shifted focus away from the dominance of men and onto the interests of the children and women. Article 2 of the 1980 Marriage law directly states, \"the lawful rights and interests of women, children and the aged are protected. Family planning is practiced\". Adults, both men and women, gained the right to lawful divorce.\n\nIn an effort to fight the tenacity of tradition, Article 3 of the 1980 marriage law continued the ban of concubinage, polygamy, and bigamy. The Marriage Law of 1980, Article 3, forbid mercenary marriages in which a bride price or dowry is paid. Although the law also generally prohibited the exaction of money or gifts in connection with any marriage arrangements, bride price and dowries were still practiced customs. According to Li, the traditional business of selling women in exchange for marriage returned after the law gave women the right to select their husbands. In 1990, 18,692 cases were investigated by Chinese authorities\n\nBride price payments are still common in rural areas, whereas dowries have not only become smaller but less common. Similarly in urban areas, the dowry custom has nearly disappeared. The bride price custom has transformed into providing gifts for the bride or her family. Article 4 of the marriage law banned the usage of compulsion or the interference of third parties, stating, \"marriage must be based upon the complete willingness of the two parties,\" As Engel argues, the law also encouraged sexual equality by making daughters just as valuable as sons, particularly in regards to potential for old age insurance. Article 8 of the 1980 Marriage Law states, \"after a marriage has been registered, the woman may become a member of the man's family, or the man may become a member of the woman's family, according to the agreed wishes of the two parties.\"\n\nMore recently, there has been a surge in Chinese-foreign marriages in mainland China, with data showing these types of marriages are more common in women than in men. In 2010, there were almost 40,000 women registered in Chinese-foreign marriages in mainland China. In comparison, there were less than 12,000 men registered in these types of marriages in the same year.\n\nIn traditional China, polygamy was legal and having a concubine (See concubinage) was considered a luxury for aristocratic families.\nIn 1950, polygamy was outlawed and it seemed, for a while, that extramarital affairs were unheard of. The New Marriage Law of 1950 allowed women in China to be able to divorce for the first time in China, which allowed women to leave husbands who had these extramarital affairs. The phenomenon of de facto polygamy, or so-called \"second wives\" (二奶 èrnǎi in Chinese), has reemerged in recent years.\nWhen polygamy was legal, women were more tolerant of their husbands extramarital affairs. Today, women who discover their husband has a \"second wife\" are less tolerant and now have the ability to ask for a divorce.\n\nMen tend to travel to mainland China for work and business. Sudden industrialization in China brought two types of people together: young female workers and rich businessmen from cities like Hong Kong. Some rich businessmen start relationships with these women, known as \"keeping a second wife\" (bao yinai) in Cantonese.\nMany migrant women find it difficult to find husbands, so they make themselves more readily available to become the second wives and lovers of rich businessmen. The men are attracted to these economically dependent women; the businessmen's first wives tended to stay at home and not work.\nThe relationships can range from just being casual sexual transactions that are paid for by the businessman to being long term relationships that develop into something more. If a relationship does become something more, some of the Chinese women quit their job and become 'live-in lovers' whose main job is to please the working man.\n\nThe first wives in these situations have a hard time dealing with their husbands taking part in extramarital affairs, but women deal with it in different ways. Most women don't have much say because they are usually far away from their husbands. Even if the wives do move to China with their husbands, the businessman still find ways to carry on affairs. Some wives go into the situation with the motto \"one eye open, with the other eye closed\" meaning they understand their husbands are bound to cheat, but want to make sure they practice safe sex and do not bring home children. What becomes confusing is the relationship with the children and the father who is almost always gone. Many first wives, in order to suppress the children's questions, downplay the fathers role and make it seem less important. Other women fear for their financial situations. In order to protect their life's work, some women try to protect their rights by putting the house and other major finances in their names instead of their husbands.\n\nThis situation has created many social and legal issues. Unlike previous generations of arranged marriages, the modern polygamy is more often voluntary. Women in China are facing serious pressures to be married, by family and friends. There is a derogatory term for women who are not married by the time they are in their late twenties, sheng nu. With these pressures to be married, some women who have very few prospects willingly enter into a second marriage. Sometimes, these second wives are promised a good life and home by these men. Oftentimes, these women are poor and uneducated so when they split, they have very little left. Sometimes these women were completely unaware that the man was already married. There are now lawyers who specialize in representing these \"second wives\" so they are not taken advantage of if the relationship ends badly. See documentary attached, \"China's Second Wives\". This documentary takes a look at the rights of second wives and some of the issues they face.\n\nThe Marriage Law of 1950 empowered women to initiate divorce proceedings.\nAccording to Elaine Jeffreys, an Australian Research Council Future Fellow and Associate Professor in China studies, divorce requests were only granted if they were justified by politically proper reasons. These requests were mediated by party-affiliated organizations, rather than discredited legal systems. Ralph Haughwout Folsom, a professor of Chinese law, international trade, and international business transactions at the University of San Diego, and, John H. Minan, a trial attorney in the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and a law professor at the University of San Diego, argue that the Marriage Law of 1950 allowed for much flexibility in the refusal of divorce when only one party sought it. During the market-based economic reforms, China re-instituted a formal legal system and implemented provisions for divorce on a more individualized basis.\n\nJeffreys asserts that the Marriage Law of 1980 provided for divorce on the basis that emotions or mutual affections were broken. As a result of the more liberal grounds for divorce, the divorce rates soared\nAs women began divorcing their husbands, tensions increased and much resistance was met from rural males. Although divorce was now legally recognized, thousands of women lost their lives for attempting to divorce their husbands and some committed suicide when the right to divorce was withheld. Divorce, once seen as a rare act during the Mao era(1949–1976), has become more common with rates continuing to increase today. Along with this increase in divorce, it became evident that divorced women were often given an unfair share or housing and property.\n\nThe amended Marriage Law of 2001, which according to Jeffreys was designed to protect women's rights, provided a solution to this problem by reverting to a \"moralistic fault-based system with a renewed focus on collectivist mechanisms to protect marriage and family.\" Although all property acquired during a marriage was seen as jointly-held,\nit was not until the implementation of Article 46 of the 2001 Marriage Law that the concealment of joint property was punishable. This was enacted to ensure a fair division during a divorce. The article also granted the right for a party to request compensation from a spouse who committed illegal cohabitation, bigamy, and family violence or desertion.\n\nIn 2004, the All-China Women's Federation compiled survey results to show that thirty percent of the women in China experienced domestic violence within their homes. The Chinese Marriage Law was amended in 2001 to offer mediation services and compensation to those who subjected to domestic violence. Domestic violence was finally criminalized with the 2005 amendment of the Law of Protection of Rights and Interests of Women.\n\nThe lack of public awareness of the 2005 amendment has allowed spousal abuse to persist. There was a significant increase in the prevalence of domestic violence in the People's Republic of China involving Chinese women committing violence against Chinese men. In 2003, 10 percent of violence in families involved male victims.\n\nThe gender gap in current enrollment widens with age because males are more likely to be enrolled than females at every age group in the People's Republic of China. 1961 marked the sudden decrease in female enrollment in primary and secondary school. Female primary school enrollment suffered more than that of males during the Great Chinese Famine (1958–1961). Although the gender gap for secondary and primary education has narrowed over time, the gender gap at the highest education level remains much larger.\n\nThe One Percent Population Survey in 1987 found that in rural areas 48 percent of males aged 45 and above were illiterate while on the other hand, 6 percent of males 15–19 years old were illiterate. Although the percentage of illiterate women decreased significantly from 88 percent to 15 percent, it is significantly higher than the percentage of illiterate men for the same age groupings.\n\nIn traditional Chinese culture, which was a patriarchal society based on Confucian ideology, women did not possess priority in healthcare. Health care was tailored to focus on men. Chinese health care has since undergone much reform and has tried to provide men and women with equal health care. During the Cultural Revolution (1966–1976), the People's Republic of China began to focus on the provision of health care for women.\n\nThis change was apparent when the women in the Chinese workforce were granted health care. Health care policy required all women workers to receive urinalysis and vaginal examinations yearly. The People's Republic of China has enacted various laws to protect the health care rights of women, including the Maternal and Child Care law. This law and numerous others focus on protecting the rights of all women in the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe phenomenon of the missing women of Asia is visible in China. The ratio of men to women in China is much higher than would be expected biologically, and gender discrimination has contributed to this imbalance. Amartya Sen, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, asserted in 1990 that over 100 million women were missing globally, with 50 million women missing from China alone. Sen attributed the deficit in the number of women to sex-selective abortion, female infanticide, and inadequate nutrition for girls, all of which have been encouraged by the One-child policy.\n\nFor women in China, the most likely cancer to be found is cervical cancer. The World Health Organization (WHO) suggests to use routine screening to confirm if this woman gets cervical cancer. However, information on cervical cancer screening is not quite available for women in China.\n\nUyghur sayings on women:\n\nFirewood serves for winter, a wife serves for her husband's pleasure. (Qişniŋ rahiti oton, ärniŋ rahiti xoton.) (قىشنىڭ ﺭﺍﻫﯩﺘﻰ ئوتون, ئەرنىڭ ﺭﺍﻫﯩﺘﻰ خوتون)\n\nWoman is the slave of the house. (Xotun kişi tüt tamniñ quli.) (خوتۇن كىشى تۈت تامنىڭ قۇلى)\n\nAllah is God for a woman, the husband is half God. (Ayalniñ pütün xudasi XUDA, yärim Xudasi är.) (ئايالنىڭ پۈتۈن خۇداسى خۇدا, يەرىم خۇداسى ئەر)\n\nthe first wife is a good woman, the second a witch, and the third a prostitute. (birgä täkkän yaxši, ikkigä täkkän baxši, üčkä täkkän paxši.) (بىرگە تەككەن ياخشى, ئىككىگە تەككەن باخشى, ئۈچكە تەككەن پاخشى)\n\nA family with many women will be miserable. (Qizi barniñ därdi bar.) (قىزى بارنىڭ دەردى بار)\n\nLet your daughter marry or you will die of regret instead of illness. (Qiziñ Öyde ärsiz uzaq turmiğay, ölärsän puşaymanda sän ağirmay.) (قىزىڭ ئۆيدە ەرسىز ئۇزاق تۇرمىغاي, ئۆلەرسەن پۇشايماندا سەن اغىرماي)\n\nWoman: long hair, short wit. (Xotun xäqniñ çaçi uzun, ä qli qisqa.) (خوتۇن خاقنىڭ چەچى ۇزۇن ئە قلى قىسقا)\n\nA woman without a husband is like a horse without a halter. (Ärsiz xotun, yugänsiz baytal.) (ەرسىز خوتۇن, يۇگەنسىز بايتال)\n\nMen rely on life, a wife relies on her husband. (Är jeni bilän, xişri äri bilän.) (ەر جېنى بىلەن, خىشرى ەرى بىلەن)\n\nAmong Uyghurs it was thought that God designed women to endure hardship and work, the word for \"helpless one\", ʿājiza, was used to call women who were not married while women who were married were called mazlūm among in Xinjiang, however, divorce and remarriage was facile for the women The modern Uyghur dialect in Turfan uses the Arabic word for oppressed, maẓlum, to refer to \"married old woman\" and pronounce it as mäzim. Woman were normally referred to as \"oppressed person\" (mazlum-kishi), 13 or 12 years old was the age of marriage for women in Khotan, Yarkand, and Kashgar. Robert Barkley Shaw wrote that \"* Mazlúm\", lit. \"oppressed one,\" is used in Káshghar, &c., instead of the word \" woman.\"\" A woman's robe was referred to as mazlúm-cha chappan. In the local tradition, women were used for reproduction, sex, and housework, instead of being treat as an equal partner of men.\n\nDuring the last years of imperial China, Swedish Christian missionaries observed the oppressive conditions for Uyghur Muslim women in Xinjiang during their stay between 1892-1938. Uyghur Muslim women were oppressed, by comparison Han Chinese women were free and greater choice of profession unlike Uyghur Muslim women who usually end up being maid. When Uyghur Muslim women marrying Han Chinese men, these women were hate by their families and people. The Uyghur Muslims viewed single unmarried women as prostitutes and held them in extreme disregard. Child marriages for girls was very common and the Uyghurs called girls \"overripe\" if they were not married by 15 or 16 years old. 4 wives were allowwd along with any amount of temporary marriages contracted by Mullahs to \"pleasure wives\" for a set time period. Some had 60 and 35 wives. Divorces and marrying was rampant with marriages and divorces being conducted by Mullahs simultaneously and some men married hundreds and could divorce women for no reason. Wives were forced to stay in the house and had to be obedient to their husbands and were judged according to how much children they could bear. Unmarried women were viewed as whores and many children were born with venereal diseases because of these. The birth of a girl was seen as a terrible calamity by the local Uighur Muslims and boys were worth more to them. The constant stream of marriage and divorces led to children being mistreated by stepparents.\n\nA Swedish missionary said \"These girls were surely the first girls in Eastern Turkestan who had had a real youth before getting married. The Muslim woman has no youth. Directly from childhood’s carefree playing of games she enters life’s bitter everyday toil… She is but a child and a wife.\" The marriage of 9 year old Aisha to the Prophet Muhammad was cited by Uyghur Muslims to justify marrying girl children, whom they viewed as mere products. The Muslims also attacked the Swedish Christian mission and Hindus resident in the city. Lobbying by the Swedish Christian missionaries led to child marriage for under 15 year old girls to be banned by the Chinese Governor in Urumqi, although the Uyghur Muslims ignored the law.\n\nAfter the founding of People's Republic of China, the communist government authorities calls traditional Muslim customs on women is “backwards or feudal”. The women's right has been improved yet many resistance appeared. Hui Muslim women have internalized concept of gender equality because they view themselves as not just Muslims but Chinese citizens, so they have the right to exercise women rights like initiating divorce. In China, female can act as prayer leaders - imams as well as attending women-only mosques. Due to Beijing having tight control over religious practices, Chinese Muslims are isolated from trends of radical Islam which came after the 1979 Iranian Revolution. According to Dr Khaled Abou el Fadl from the University of California in Los Angeles, this explains the situation whereby female imams, an ancient tradition long ended elsewhere, can continue to exist in China. female-only mosques grants women more power in Chinese Religious Affairs yet it's controversial and still rare in the world today — by comparison, the first women’s mosque in the United States didn’t open until January 2015.\n\nSome Vietnamese women from Lao Cai who married Chinese men stated that among their reasons for doing so was that Vietnamese men beat their wives, engaged in affairs with mistresses, and refused to help their wives with chores while Chinese men actively helped their wives carry out chores and care for them.\n\nIn a study comparing Chinese and Vietnamese attitudes towards women, more Vietnamese than Chinese said that the male should dominate the family and a wife had to provide sex to her husband at his will. Violence against women was supported by more Vietnamese than Chinese. Domestic violence was more accepted by Vietnamese women than Chinese women.\n\nMost Korean comfort women who stayed in China married Chinese men and one of them gave the explanation that: \"Chinese men are different from their Korean counterparts. The latter like to drink and harass women but Chinese men are extremely endearing to their wives\".\n\nIn 1956, the Chinese government publicly announced its goal to control the exponentially increasing population size. The government planned to use education and publicity as their main modes of increasing awareness. Zhou Enlai launched the first program for smaller families under the guidance of Madame Li Teh-chuan, the Minister of Health at the time. During this time, family planning and contraceptive usage were highly publicized and encouraged.\n\nThe One-child policy, initiated in 1978 and first applied in 1979, mandated that each married couple may bear only one child, except in the case of special circumstances. These conditions included, \"the birth of a first child who has developed a non-hereditary \ndisability that will make it difficult to perform productive labour later in life, the \nfact that both husband and wife are themselves single children, a misdiagnosis of \nbarrenness in the wife combined with a passage of more than five years after the \nadoption of a child, a remarrying husband and wife who have between them \nonly one child.\" The law was relaxed in 2015.\n\nThe preference for sons coupled with the one-child-policy have led to a high rate of sex selective abortion in China. Mainland China has a highly masculine sex ratio. The sex ratio at birth (between male and female births) in mainland China reached 117:100 in the year 2000, substantially more masculine than the natural baseline, which ranges between 103:100 and 107:100. It had risen from 108:100 in 1981—at the boundary of the natural baseline—to 111:100 in 1990. According to a report by the State Population and Family Planning Commission, there will be 30 million more men than women in 2020, potentially leading to social instability. The correlation between the increase of masculine sex ratio disparity on birth and the deployment of one child policy would appear to have been caused by the one-child policy.\n\nThe policy not only limits the number of births a family can have and it does not only cause gender imbalance but it also put pressures to women. Women are mostly blamed when giving birth to a baby girl as if they chose the gender of their baby. Women were subjected to forced abortions if they appear to be having a baby girl This situation led to higher female infanticide rates and female deaths in China. The one-child policy stole the freedom the women have in deciding how to live their lives and in making their own decisions.\n\nOther Asian regions also have higher than average ratios, including Taiwan (110:100), which does not have a family planning policy. Many studies have explored the reason for the gender-based birthrate disparity in China as well as other countries. A study in 1990 attributed the high preponderance of reported male births in mainland China to four main causes: diseases which affect females more severely than males; the result of widespread under-reporting of female births; the illegal practice of sex-selective abortion made possible by the widespread availability of ultrasound; and finally, acts of child abandonment and infanticide.\n\nAccording to reports by the Amnesty International, family planning officials in Puning City, Guangdong Province launched the Iron Fist Campaign in April 2010. This campaign targeted individuals for sterilization in an attempt to control population growth. 9,559 individuals in Puning City were targeted for sterilization, some against their will. The targeted individuals were asked to go to governmental clinics where they would be sterilized. If they refused the procedure, then they put their families at risk for detainment.\n\nThe Iron Fist Campaign lasted for 20 days and targeted 9,559 individuals. Approximately 50 percent consented and 1,377 relatives of targeted couples were detained. Family planning officials defended the Iron Fist Campaign, asserting that the large population of migrant workers in Puning misunderstood the One-child policy and therefore had not complied with family planning regulations. In an attempt to standardize family planning policies across all of China, the Population and Family Planning Law of 2002 was implemented. According to the Amnesty International, the law protects individual rights and bans the usage of coercion or detainment.\n\nIn current-day China, women enjoy legal equal rights to property, but in practice these rights are often difficult to realize. However, Chinese women have historically held little rights to private property, both by societal customs and by law. In imperial China (before 1911 C.E.), family households held property collectively, rather than as individual members of the household. This property customarily belonged to the family ancestral clan, with legal control belonging to the family head, or the eldest male.\n\nAncestry in imperial China was patrilineal, or passed through the male. Because women were not a part of this male-based ancestral line, they could never share the family property. Upon the death of the head of household, property was passed to the eldest son. In the absence of an eligible son, a family would often adopt a son to continue the family line and property.\n\nHowever, as Kathryn Bernhardt, a scholar of Chinese history points out, nearly one in three women during the Song dynasty (960-1279 C.E.) would either have no brothers or no sons, leaving them with some agency over family property. In these cases, unmarried daughters would receive their fathers’ property in the absence of direct male descendants, or an unmarried widow would choose the family heir. A new law enacted during the Ming dynasty (1368-1644 C.E.) required that in the absence of a direct male descendant, a man's property was to go to his nephews. With this change in law, women's access to private property was restricted. At that point, only if none of a man's sons and none of his brothers' sons were alive to inherit property would a daughter receive the inheritance.\n\nIn most cases, the most control over family property that a widow would receive was maintenance, or the agency to control the property while an heir came of age. In some cases after some reforms in the Qing Dynasty (1644-1912), some women could retain maintenance over undivided property even after their sons came of age. Law during the Republican era interpreted this to mean that widows held complete power over sons in control of family property.\n\nThe Kuomintang, which assumed power over China in 1911, publicly advocated for gender equality, though not very many changes in property rights went into effect until the enactment of the Republican Civil Code in 1930, which changed the basic definitions of property and family inheritance. The Code specified that family property legally belonged to the father, with no connection to the ancestral clan.\n\nInheritance of this property was based on direct lineage, regardless of gender, so that sons and daughters would receive an equal share of family property upon the death of their parents. Furthermore, a man's will or appointment of a different heir could not fully bypass the legally mandated inheritance structures, preventing families from holding onto gender-discriminatory customs. Despite the law's equitable wording on property, some scholars, such as Deborah Davis and Kathryn Bernhardt, point out that the legal definitions regarding property may not have entirely changed the practices of the general public.\n\nThe People's Republic of China, which assumed control in 1949 and remains in power today, also promised gender equality. The PRC's approach was different from the Kuomintang. With regards to land, all land was owned by the central Chinese government and allocated for people to use, so technically no one, male or female, owned land. In 1978, the Chinese government set up a household farming system that split agricultural land into small plots for villages to allocate to citizens.\n\nLand was distributed to households with legal responsibility in the family head, or the eldest male. So, a woman's access to land was contingent on her being part of a household. Land leases were technically supposed to transfer with marriage to a woman's marital family, but the perfect allocation of land leases was not always reached, meaning women could potentially lose land upon marriage. Such village allocations have since ceased, so the leases to the land are now passed through families.\n\nFor property other than land, new Chinese laws allow for distinction between personal and communal property. Married couples can simultaneously own some things individually while sharing others with their spouse and family. With regards to divorce, Chinese law generally demands a 50/50 split of property. The Marriage Law of 1980 defined different types of divorce that would split the conjugal property differently, such as instances of adultery or domestic violence.\n\nSince most divorce disputes are settled at a local level, the law allows for courts to review specific situations and make decisions in the best interest of the child. Typically, such a decision would simultaneously favor the mother, especially in disputes over a house where the child would live. In some divorce disputes \"ownership\" and \"use\" over property would be distinguished, giving a mother and child \"use\" of the family house without awarding the mother full ownership of the house.\n\nIf we use female labor force participation as the indicator to measure gender equality, China would be one of the most egalitarian countries in the world: female labor force participation in China increased dramatically after the founding of the People's Republic and almost reached the universal level. According to a study by Bauer et al., of women who married between 1950 and 1965, 70 percent had jobs, and women who married between 1966 and 1976, 92 percent had jobs.\n\nEven though women in China are actively contributing to the paid labor force at an extent that exceeds numerous other countries, parity in the workforce has not been reached. In 1982, Chinese working women represented 43 percent of the total population, a larger proportion than either working American women (35.3 percent) or working Japanese women (36 percent). As a result of the increased participation in the labor force, women's contribution to family income increased from 20 percent in the 1950s to 40 percent in the 1990s.\n\nIn traditional China, land was passed down from father to son and in the case of no son, the land was then given to a close male relative. Although in the past women in China were not granted ownership of land, today in rural areas of the People's Republic of China, women possess pivotal roles in farming, which allows them control over the area's central sources of production. Population greatly affects the mode of farming that is utilized, which determines the duties women have in farming. The practice of \"clearing a patch of vegetation\nby the slash-and-burn method, growing assorted varieties of crops in the cleared land for one or two seasons and\nthen moving to a new plot of land on a rotational basis\" is known as Shifting cultivation.\n\nAccording to tishwayan Thomas Rawski, a professor of Economics and History at the University of Pittsburgh, this method of agriculture is utilized in less populated areas and results in women performing more of the agricultural duties, whereas in more populated areas complicated plough cultivation is used. Plough cultivation prepares the land for farming by loosening the soil, making it easier for seeds to be sown. Men typically perform plough cultivation but during periods of high demand women pitch in with agricultural duties of planting, harvesting and transporting. Women also have key roles in tea cultivation and double cropping rice. Agricultural income is supplemented by women's work in animal rearing, spinning, basket construction, weaving, and the production of other various crafts.\n\nIn the private sector, Chinese law mandates the coverage of maternity leave and costs of childbirth. These maternity laws have led to employers’ reluctance to hire women.\n\nHowever, not only do China's enterprises have the largest proportion of employment in industries, this is also the case for the whole non-agricultural employment in China. The 1991 survey, for example, shows that a little more than one third of male and female employees in China in 1991 were in the area of industrial production. Furthermore, the proportion of female employees in the following areas to the total female employees surpasses the proportion of male employees to the total male employees: (1) professional and technical occupations, (2) commerce and service occupations, and (3) industrial production.\n\nThe People's Republic of China's dependence on low-wage manufacturing to produce goods for the international market is due to changes in China's economic policies. These economic policies have also encouraged the export industries. Urban industrial areas are staffed with young migrant women workers who leave their rural homes. Since males are more likely than females to attend college, rural females often migrate to urban employment in hopes of supplementing their families’ incomes. Factories in urban areas manufactured toys, clothing, electronics, and footwear primarily for exportation into the international world market.\n\nIn 1984 the reform of the Regulations of Permanent Residence Registration marked an increase in the migration of rural Chinese workers. As the restrictions on residence became more lenient, less penalizing, and permitted people to travel to find employment, more women engaged in migrant labor. In the cities, women could find low paying work as factory workers. These increased employment opportunities drew women out of rural areas in hopes of escaping poverty. Although this reformed system enabled the migration of rural residents, it prohibited them from accepting any benefits in the cities or changing their permanent residence, which led to a majority of migrant workers not receiving any forms of medical care, education, or housing. Currently 90 percent of migrant workers violate the Chinese labor law by working without contracts.\n\nNationally, male migrant workers outnumber female migrants 2:1, i.e. women comprise about 30% of the so-called 'floating population'. However, in some areas, Guangdong Province for example, the ratio favours women. In the industrial district of Nanshan in Shenzhen, 80 percent of the migrant workers were women. A preference for younger women over older women, has led to a predominantly young population of migrant workers. Married women have more restrictions on mobility due to duties to the family, whereas younger women are more likely to not be married. Also, younger rural women are less likely to become pregnant, possess nimble fingers, more able to work longer hours, and are less knowledgeable about their statutory rights. For the women who are able to gain employment, they then face the possibility of being forced to sign a contract prohibiting them from getting pregnant or married during their period of employment.\n\nAlong with economic reforms in China, gender differences in terms of physical appearance and bodily gestures have been made more paramount through the media and commerce. This has created jobs that demand feminine attributes, particularly in the service industry. Sales representatives in cosmetics and clothing stores are usually young attractive women who continuously cultivate their feminine appearance, corresponding to images of women that they see in advertisements. Chinese women nowadays also dominate other domains of professional training such as psychotherapy. Courses and workshops in psychotherapy attract women of different ages who feel the burden of sensitively mastering social relations in and outside their households and at the same time as a channel to realize themselves as individuals not reduced to their familial roles as mothers or wives. \n\nWomen in China have low participation rates as political leaders. Women's disadvantage is most evident in\ntheir severe underrepresentation in the more powerful, political, positions. At the top level of decision making, no woman has ever been among the nine members of the Standing Committee of the Communist Party's Politburo. Just 3 of 27 government ministers are women, and importantly, since 1997, China has fallen to 53rd place from 16th in the world in terms of female representation at its parliament, the National People's Congress, according to the Inter-Parliamentary Union.\n\nFollowing the fall of the Qing dynasty and the end of imperial rule, the Republican government outlawed foot binding in 1912 and popular attitudes toward the practice began to shift decisively by the 1920s. In 1949 the practice of footbinding was successfully banned. Today bound feet act as a reminder of the past \"oppression of women, insularity, despotism, and disregard for human rights.\"\n\nYoung women and girls are kidnapped from their homes and sold to gangs who traffick women, often displacing the women by great distances. In order to ensure that the women do not run away, the men who purchase them do not allow the women to leave the house. Oftentimes the documentation and papers are taken from the trafficked women. Many women become pregnant and have children, and are burdened to provide for their family.\n\nIn the 1950s, Mao Zedong, the first Chairman of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, launched a campaign to eradicate prostitution throughout China. The campaign made the act of trafficking women severely punishable by law. A major component of the campaign was the rehabilitation program in which prostitutes and trafficked women were provided \"medical treatment, thought reform, job training, and family reintegration.\" Since the economic reform in 1979, sex trafficking and other social vices have revived.\n\nShortly after taking power in 1949, the Communist Party of China embarked upon a series of campaigns that purportedly eradicated prostitution from mainland China by the early 1960s. Since the loosening of government controls over society in the early 1980s, prostitution in mainland China not only has become more visible, but also can now be found throughout both urban and rural areas. In spite of government efforts, prostitution has now developed to the extent that it comprises an industry, one that involves a great number of people and produces a considerable economic output.\n\nProstitution has also become associated with a number of problems, including organized crime, government corruption and sexually transmitted diseases. As the Chinese favor a son more than girls in the family, there is a disproportional larger marriageable aged men with no prospects for finding enough women, they also turn to prostitutes. This is accentuated by many married men and wives who do not live in one city together and they turn to \"consultants\" for help.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15453666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15453666", "title": "Yabaku", "text": "Yabaku\n\nYabaku is a fairly enigmatic tribe out of ten prominent Türkic tribes enumerated by Mahmut Kashgari (11th century) in the list describing the location of the Türkic polities from the borders of the Eastern Roman Empire to the borders of China in the following sequence: i. Bechen (Badjinak, hence their Greek designation \"Patzinakae\"), ii. Kyfchak (Kipchak, actually Cumans then roaming in the Russian steppe and modern Ukraine), iii. Oguz (linguistic kin to Turkey's and Azerbaijan's Turks, then still north of Aral, and between Aral and the Caspian Sea), iv. Yemek (Kimek then in the Astrakhan vicinity), v. Bashgyrt (Bashkort, in modern Bashkortostan), vi. Basmyl, vii. Kai, viii. Yabaku, ix. Tatars, x. Kyrgyz (linguistic kin also to modern Kazakh, as well as the Kyrgyz). Kashgari also noted that \"the Kai, \"Yabaku\", Tatar, and Basmyl are bilingual, speaking in Türkic alongside their own languages, while Kyrgyzes, Kyfchaks, Oguzes...\" have their own \"Türkic\" languages, and the languages of Yemeks and Bashkirts are close to them. \n\n"}
{"id": "532949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532949", "title": "Zazpiak Bat", "text": "Zazpiak Bat\n\nZazpiak Bat is a heraldic nickname for the Basque coat of arms which includes the arms of the seven provinces mentioned, stressing their unity. It was designed by the historian Jean de Jaurgain in 1897 for the \"Congrès et Fêtes de la Tradition basque\" celebrated at Saint-Jean-de-Luz. \n\n\"Zazpiak Bat\" is a motto attributed to Basque explorer Antoine-Thomson d'Abbadie in the late nineteenth century, from the Basque words \"zazpiak\" meaning 'the seven' and \"bat\" meaning 'one', translates as \"the seven [are] one\" and refers to the seven Basque Country traditional provinces. However, it was first cited in 1836 by a friend and collaborator of Antoine d'Abbadie's, the Souletin Agosti Xaho (\"Etudes grammaticales sur la langue euskarienne\", dedicated to the \"Zazpirak Bat\"). The motto is based on a similar one fashioned by the Enlightenment society Real Sociedad Bascongada de Amigos del País in 1765, \"Irurac bat\", 'the three [are] one', after the provinces currently making up the Basque Autonomous Community), while a like variant was created too in the 19th century known as \"Laurak bat\" ('the four [are] one', after the four Basque provinces in Spain), a motto quoted and celebrated by the Provincial Government of Navarre in 1866.\n\nThe original Zazpiak Bat features a design of traditional arms of six Basque territories, namely Álava, Gipuzkoa, and Biscay (the three which make the Basque Autonomous Community) plus Navarre (both in Spain); and the two that are part of the French department of the Pyrénées Atlantiques - Soule and Labourd. The coat of arms of the third traditional province, Lower Navarre is subsumed under the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Navarre, therefore omitted and represented by the latter. The modern design is based on the current simplified heraldry of these territories. \n\nLaurak Bat with the four Basque provinces in Spain was adopted as the coat of arms of the Basque autonomous community. The coat of arms of Navarre was originally included in the fourth quarter of the shield, but following a protest from the UPN led government of Navarre, the Constitutional Court of Spain forced the Basque government to remove the chains of Navarre from the Basque insignia. The red background of the Navarrese insignia currently occupies the fourth quarter of the coat of arms of the Basque Country.\n\n"}
