{"id": "52875077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52875077", "title": "After School Satan", "text": "After School Satan\n\nAfter School Satan is an after school program project of The Satanic Temple, an American political activist religious organization based in Salem, Massachusetts and is sponsored by Reason Alliance LTD, a 501(c)3 non-profit organization. It was created as an alternative to the Christian-based after school groups, like the Good News Club. \n\nThere are After School Satan clubs in cities across the United States, including Atlanta, Los Angeles, Salt Lake City, Pensacola, Washington, D.C., Tucson, Springfield, MO, Seattle, WA and Portland, OR.\n\nThe Supreme Court decision \"Good News Club v. Milford Central School\" held that when a government operates a \"limited public forum\" it may not discriminate against speech that takes place within that forum on the basis of the viewpoint it expresses. The \"limited public forum\" in the case was referring to after school programs, that the schools provided space for, but was not run by the school.\n\nAfter School Satan was created by The Satanic Temple in July 2016 to ensure that equal representation for all religions is upheld in public schools, and religious freedom and plurality is respected. Since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2001 that religious groups are permitted to establish clubs to proselytize after hours using public school classrooms, the Christian-based Good News Club has established thousands of such clubs. In response, The Satanic Temple began a campaign to establish its own clubs across the United States. According to one organizer, \"Whenever religion enters the public sphere, like the Good News Club at public schools, we take action to ensure that more than one religious voice is represented, and that is our intent with the After School Satan Club.\"\n\nThe clubs follow a standard syllabus, and strive to provide students with the critical thinking skills necessary to be able to make important life decisions for themselves. They emphasize a scientific and rationalist, non-superstitious world view, and oppose \"indoctrination\" into other-worldly belief systems.\n\nAccording to The Satanic Temple and After School Satan's co-founder and spokesperson, Lucien Greaves: and adds \n\nOne \"well attended\" club in Seattle had to pause their activities during the 2017-2018 school year due to lack of funds and, or volunteers. \n\nAfter School Satan Clubs \"incorporate games, projects, and thinking exercises that help children understand how we know what we know about our world and our universe.\" Satanic Temple spokesman Finn Rezz said the club \"would focus on science and rational thinking,\" promoting \"benevolence and empathy for everybody\" – while providing an alternative voice to the Bible-centred \"Good News Club\". After School Satan Clubs do not teach children to believe in supernatural beings named Satan or perform Satanic rituals.\n\nA group of Christian pastors and other religious leaders met in Tacoma, Washington to discuss the proposition that the After School Satan program would be allowed at a local school. One pastor remarked, \"We want to cut this off and defeat it before it ever gets a chance to take root.\" Another pastor commented, \"We are the taxpayers here and we ought to stand up and let them know they are not welcome, they don't pay taxes here.\" A petition circulated in protest of the club gained more than 100,000 signatures, and stated, \"I strongly protest the After School Satan Club that is being allowed on your premises. This is a grave threat to the spiritual life of children and the future of education. I urge you to revoke The Satanic Temple's permit. Satan has no place in education. Don't let the devil near our children.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32786523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32786523", "title": "Akonir Namghar", "text": "Akonir Namghar\n\nAkonir Namghar () is an organisation to develop interest in young minds about \"Eka Sarana Hari Naam Dharma\", propagated by Mahapurush Srimanta Sankaradev and Sri Sri Madhavdev, a great Vaishnavite Saint of India. Smti. Arati Das founded on 23 January 2004.\nThe organisations mission is to spread the message of Gurujana among children. There is Sattriya Sangeet Vidyalaya (affiliated to Asom Satra Mahasabha) run by Guru Govinda Mahanta. People can learn Khol, Taal Sattriya Nritya, Borgeet etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "20332408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20332408", "title": "Andrew Ross Sorkin", "text": "Andrew Ross Sorkin\n\nAndrew Ross Sorkin (born February 19, 1977) is an American journalist and author. He is a financial columnist for \"The New York Times\" and a co-anchor of CNBC's \"Squawk Box.\" He is also the founder and editor of DealBook, a financial news service published by \"The New York Times\". He wrote the bestselling book \"Too Big to Fail\" and co-produced a movie adaptation of the book for HBO Films. He is also the co-creator for the Showtime series \"Billions\".\n\nSorkin was born in New York, the son of Joan Ross Sorkin, a playwright, and Laurence T. Sorkin, a partner at the law firm Cahill Gordon & Reindel. His family is Jewish. Sorkin graduated from Scarsdale High School in 1995 and earned a Bachelor of Science from Cornell University in 1999 where he was a member of Sigma Pi fraternity. He is not related to Aaron Sorkin or noted defense lawyer Ira Lee Sorkin.\n\nSorkin first joined \"The New York Times\" as a student intern during his senior year in high school. He also worked for the paper while he was in college, publishing 71 articles before he graduated. He began by writing media and technology articles while assisting the advertising columnist, Stuart Elliott. Sorkin spent the summer of 1996 working for \"Businessweek\", before returning to \"The New York Times\". He moved to London for part of 1998. While there, he wrote about European business and technology for \"The New York Times\" and then returned to Cornell to complete his studies. At Cornell, he was vice president of the Sigma Pi fraternity.\n\nSorkin joined \"The New York Times\" full-time in 1999 as the newspaper's European mergers and acquisitions reporter, and was based in London. In 2000, Sorkin became the paper's chief mergers and acquisitions reporter, based in New York, a position he still holds. In 2001, Sorkin founded \"DealBook,\" an online daily financial report published by the \"Times\". As Editor-at-Large of \"DealBook,\" Sorkin writes a weekly column of the same name. Sorkin is also an assistant editor of business and finance news for the paper.\n\nSorkin has broken news of major mergers and acquisitions, including Chase's acquisition of JPMorgan Chase and Hewlett-Packard's acquisition of Compaq. He also led \"The New York Times\"' coverage of the largest takeover in history, Vodafone's $183 billion hostile bid for Mannesmann. Additionally, he broke the news of IBM's sale of its PC business to Lenovo, Boston Scientific's $25 billion acquisition of Guidant and Symantec's $13 billion deal for Veritas Software, and reported on News Corp.'s acquisition of Dow Jones and \"The Wall Street Journal\".\n\nSorkin has reported on the Wall Street financial crisis, including the collapse of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, and the government bailout of other major investment banks and AIG. He has also written about the troubled American auto industry.\n\nIn 2007, Sorkin was one of the first journalists to identify and criticize a tax loophole for private equity firms and hedge funds. He first wrote about the topic in a column in March 2007, calling the tax treatment a \"charade\", and later wrote about it on the front page of \"The New York Times\". He has written at least a half dozen articles critiquing the tax practice by private equity firms and advocated for the government to end the loophole.\n\nIn 2014, Sorkin wrote a series of columns criticizing American corporations for trying to lower their US tax bill by merging with smaller foreign companies in a transaction known as an \"inversion\". He also criticized the Wall Street banks that advised US companies to pursue such deals, describing the banks as \"corporate co-conspirators\". Sorkin called on the government to end the practice. On September 22, 2014, the Obama Administration changed the tax laws to make it more difficult for US companies to merge to avoid taxes.\n\nOn the PRISM surveillance program and Edward Snowden situation, Sorkin said, \"I would arrest him and now I'd almost arrest Glenn Greenwald, the journalist who seems to be out there, he wants to help him get to Ecuador.\" The next day, Sorkin apologized for the comment; Greenwald accepted, tweeting \"Thank you: accepted & appreciated\". Reviewing his record after his anti-Greenwald outburst, Matt Taibbi described Sorkin as \"a shameless, ball-gargling prostitute for Wall Street\".\n\nIn October 2001, while a journalist at \"The New York Times\", Sorkin started DealBook, a newsletter about deal-making and Wall Street. DealBook was one of the first financial news aggregation services on the Internet. In March 2006, Sorkin introduced a companion website published on \"The New York Times\", with updated news and original analysis throughout the day. In 2007, DealBook won a Webby Award for Best Business Blog and it won a SABEW award for overall excellence. In 2008, the site won an EPpy Award for Best Business Blog.\n\nIn July 2011, Sorkin became a co-anchor on CNBC's \"Squawk Box\" in addition to his duties at \"The New York Times\". Sorkin has appeared on NBC's \"Today\" show, \"Charlie Rose\" and \"The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer\" on PBS, MSNBC's \"Hardball\" and \"Morning Joe\", ABC's \"Good Morning America\", \"The Chris Matthews Show\", HBO's \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", the BBC World Service, Comedy Central's \"The Daily Show\" and \"The Colbert Report\", and was a frequent guest host of CNBC's \"Squawk Box\" before joining the ensemble. Sorkin also hosted a weekly seven-part, half-hour PBS talk-show series called \"It's the Economy, NY\", which focused on how the evolving economic crisis was affecting New Yorkers.\n\nSorkin is the co-creator for the Showtime series \"Billions\", an American television drama series created with Brian Koppelman and David Levien, starring Paul Giamatti and Damian Lewis. The series is loosely based on crusading federal prosecutor of financial crimes Preet Bharara, the former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. The show premiered in January 2016.\n\nSorkin's book on the Wall Street banking crisis, \"Too Big to Fail: The Inside Story of How Wall Street and Washington Fought to Save the Financial System—and Themselves\", was published by Viking on October 20, 2009. It won the 2010 Gerald Loeb Award for best business book of the year, was on the shortlist for the 2010 Samuel Johnson Prize, shortlisted for the 2010 \"Financial Times\" and Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year Award, and was on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list (non-fiction hardcover and paperback) for six months. The book was adapted as a movie by HBO Films and premiered on HBO on May 23, 2011. The film was directed by Curtis Hanson and the screenplay was written by Peter Gould. The cast included William Hurt as Hank Paulson, the Treasury Secretary; Paul Giamatti as Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve; Billy Crudup as Timothy Geithner, the then-president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank; James Woods as Richard Fuld, the CEO of Lehman Brothers; Edward Asner as Warren Buffett, the CEO of Berkshire Hathaway; Cynthia Nixon as Michele Davis, assistant secretary for public affairs at Treasury; Bill Pullman as Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan Chase; as well as Topher Grace as Jim Wilkinson, Chief of Staff to the Treasury Secretary. Sorkin was a co-producer of the film and had a cameo appearance as a reporter.\n\nSorkin won the Gerald Loeb Award in 2005 for breaking news and again in 2010 for his book \"Too Big to Fail.\" He also won a Society of American Business Editors and Writers Award for breaking news in 2005 and again in 2006. In 2007, the World Economic Forum named him a Young Global Leader. Also in 2007, SiliconAlleyInsider.com named Sorkin one of New York's \"most influential scribes\". In 2008, \"Vanity Fair\" magazine named Sorkin as one of 40 new members of the \"Next Establishment,\" and he appeared on the UJA Federation's 2013 list of 40 under 40 top \"movers and shakers\" in the Jewish community. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nIn the penultimate episode of \"Breaking Bad\", called \"Granite State\", Sorkin is briefly referenced. He is said to have written an op-ed in \"The New York Times\" accusing fictional entrepreneurs Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz of making donations to drug rehabilitation centers in the hopes of cleansing their company's image after the Walter White scandal. Sorkin later wrote the entire fictional article.\n\nSorkin married Pilar Jenny Queen on June 9, 2007. They have three children, the youngest born on January 4, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "34189407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34189407", "title": "Ang Chee Sia Ong Temple", "text": "Ang Chee Sia Ong Temple\n\nAng Chee Sia Ong Temple () is a Taoist, Mahayana Buddhism and Confucianism temple located in West Coast, Singapore. The main hall is dedicated to the Chinese goddess Mazu, the left top is dedicated to Confucius and the Bodhisattva Guan yin.\n\nThere are also various other deities enshrined in the temple, including the Doumu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1580349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1580349", "title": "Anguiped", "text": "Anguiped\n\nThe Anguiped is a kind of divinity that is often found on magical amulets from the Greco-Roman period, and is characterized by having serpents for legs.\n\nAbraxas, the most common kind of Anguiped, is depicted as a creature with the head of a rooster and snakes for legs, symbolism thought to be of Persian origin. Sometimes inscribed below is \"Iao\", a form of the Tetragrammaton - the four letters used to represent the name of the God of Judaism. Such amulets as well as the usage of the name \"Iao\" repeatedly in magical papyri, curse tablets, gems, and other amulets, provide evidence of syncretist cults combining elements of Judaism with paganism. In the Talmud, people who turned away from Judaism to such cults are referred to as \"minim\" - often translated as \"heretics\" or \"apostates\".\n"}
{"id": "54861084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54861084", "title": "Authentic Renewal Organization", "text": "Authentic Renewal Organization\n\nThe Authentic Renewal Organization (ORA) is an Evangelical and Pentecostal political party in Venezuela, originally founded in 1988 by Godofredo Marín and Carlos Mendez.\n\nThe ORA does not align itself with any specific political ideology, but believes itself to be a form of government under the \"sacred and noble Christian principles of love, peace, faith, and hope\".\n\nIn its first electoral participation, the party nominated one of its founders, Godofredo Ramón Marín, as a candidate for the general elections of 1988. The electoral promise of the party was based on \"governing Venezuela for five years according to the Evangelical Bible,\" but with only 0.87% of the votes, the party and the candidate did not obtain the results they had expected. Despite their poor performance in the elections, the organization obtained two seats in the Chamber of Deputies of the Congress of the Republic. The deputies elected at that time were Mr. Gabriel Niño Laguado, representative of the Zulia State, and Dr. Modesto Rivero, for the Federal District (Capital District). In 1993, ORA obtained a position in the Federal District in the Chamber of Deputies.\n\nIn 1997, the party was thrown into conflict when one sector decided to support the candidacy of Claudio Fermín for the presidency of the Republic. The other group, led by the party's president Godofredo Marín, resolved to support the candidate of the Democratic Action party Luis Alfaro Ucero. The ORA withdrew its support for Luis Alfaro Ucero. This resulted in him obtaining only 0.38% of the votes, of which ORA contributed 0.11%. That fact caused a fracture in the party, making its options difficult for the general elections of 2000. The party did not run a presidential candidate nor obtain seats in the then newly installed National Assembly.\n\nORA last participation in Venezuelan national politics in 1998. After this, the political party was removed by the National Electoral Council for not having nominated new candidates. This removal led to the extinction of the ORA as a political party.\n\nIn 2010, political leader Luis Reyes Castillo, the former general secretary of the YOUNG political party, established ORA not as a political party, but as a \"Christian, social and political movement\". Within two years, the ORA fulfilled the requirements of the National Electoral Council, and was registered as a political organization. In 2012, Luis Reyes Castillo launched his candidacy for the presidency of the Republic. Through this party he received 8,212 votes, which represented 0.05% of registered voters. Former political leader Juan Gonzalez, one of the founders of the original party in 1987, accused Rayes Castillo of kidnapping the political organization and its acronyms. According to González, Reyes Castillo discovered that ORA lacked leadership and resigned the general secretariat of his then-party, the YOUNG political movement, to reorganize the ORA party, without consulting its founders. In the elections of April 14, 2013, after the death of President Hugo Chávez, the party supported the candidate and active president Nicolás Maduro. This support is still maintained today, although the organization has submitted its candidates for the municipal elections in Venezuela, which were held on December 8, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2022070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2022070", "title": "Ayyavazhi", "text": "Ayyavazhi\n\nAyyavazhi (, \"Ayyāvaḻi\" , \"Path of the Master\") is a universalizing henotheistic belief that originated in South India. It is cited as an independent monistic religion by several newspapers, government reports, journals, and academic researchers. In Indian censuses, however, the majority of its followers declare themselves as Hindus. Therefore, Ayyavazhi is also considered a Hindu denomination.\n\nAyyavazhi is centered on the life and preachings of Ayya Vaikundar; its ideas and philosophy are based on the holy texts \"Akilathirattu Ammanai\" and \"Arul Nool\". Accordingly, Vaikundar was the Purna avatar of Narayana. Ayyavazhi shares many ideas with Hinduism in its beliefs and practice, but differs considerably in its concepts of good and evil and dharma. Ayyavazhi is classified as a dharmic belief because of its central focus on dharma.\n\nAyyavazhi first came to public attention in the 19th century as a Hindu sect. Vaikundar's activities and the growing number of followers caused a reformation and revolution in 19th century Travancorean and Tamil society, surprising the feudal social system of South India. It also triggered a number of reform movements including those of Narayana Guru and Ramalinga Swamigal etc.\n\nThough Ayyavazhi followers are spread across India, they are primarily present in South India, especially concentrated in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The number of practitioners is estimated to be between 8,000,000 and 10,000,000 although the exact number is unknown, since Ayyavazhis are reported as Hindus during censuses.\n\n\"Ayya\" in Tamil means 'Master' and \"vazhi\", 'way'; the simple translation is \"Master's way\" or 'Father's way' Due to the diverse synonymous versions for the phrase in Tamil, it also leads to various other theories.\n\nAyyavazhi began to be noticed initially by the large number of people gathering to worship Vaikundar (known historically as \"Mudisoodum Perumal\") (c. 1809 – c. 1851 CE) at Poovandanthoppe. The Thuvayal thavasu (washing penance) of 1840 is the origin of Ayyavazhi as an alternative religio-cultural phenomena. The majority of its participants were from marginalised and poor sections of society. They began to function as a distinct and autonomous society, and gradually, they identified their path with the phrase 'Ayya vazhi'. Although the majority of these followers were from the Nadar caste, a large number of people from other castes also follow it. Ayyavazhi's rapid growth throughout its first century of existence was noted by Christian missionary reports from the mid-19th century.\n\nBy the middle of 19th century, Ayyavazhi had come to be a recognisable religious phenomenon with deep roots in the regions of South Travancore and South Tirunelveli. The numbers of faithful increased significantly from the 1840s. By the close of the 19th century, Swamithope was considered the religio-cultural epi-center of Ayyavazhi. After the time of Vaikundar, Ayyavazhi was spread through his teachings. The five Seedars, disciples of Vaikundar and their descendants, traveled to several parts of the country bearing the mission of Ayyavazhi. Meanwhile, the Payyan dynasty started administrating the Swamithoppe pathi, while other Pathis came under the administration of the followers of Ayya. Following the instructions of Akilattirattu Ammanai (Akilam), the Nizhal Thangals (small pagodas) have been established across the country for worship and the study of scripture.\n\nArul Nool, the first Ayyavazhi work in print was released in 1927, followed by the Akilam in 1933, almost a century after it had been written down. As a result, Ayyavazhi abandoned active oral traditions in favor of literary scriptures. Ayyavazhi headquarter reports that Ayyavazhi spread more rapidly after Indian Independence (1940s) and still more rapidly through the 1990s. Many Ayyavazhi-based social welfare organisations were established in the late 20th century. Several alternative versions of Akilam, including some controversial versions, were released during the same period. The Anbukkodimakkal Thirucchabai, a democratic bureau, was established by the religious headquarters in the early 1990s to organize and govern the religion. Organisational conferences are held in various cities in South India including Mumbai, Chennai and Thiruvananthapuram.\n\nConsidering the growth of Ayyavazhi, Ayya Vaikunda Avataram, the day of Vaikundar's incarnation, was declared a holiday by the state administration for the district of Kanyakumari in 1994, followed by the districts of Tirunelveli and Tuticorin in 2006. From 2012 C.E Vaikunda Avataram was declared a restricted holiday for the entire Tamil Nadu state. and for the Kerala State from 2015. Currently, Bala Prajapathi Adikalar, heir to the Payyan dynasty, is considered the leader of Ayyavazhi.\n\nThe holy books of Ayyavazhi are the Akilattirattu Ammanai (commonly referred to as \"<nowiki>Akilam</nowiki>\") and the Arul Nool, and they are the source of the religion's mythology. The \"Akilattirattu Ammanai\" was written by Hari Gopalan Seedar in 1841, as if hearing the contents of Akilam told by Narayana to his consort Lakshmi. In addition to the mythological events Akilam also provides an extensive quantity of historical facts, especially that of mid and late 2nd millennium CE. While the original text is damaged, the daughter versions such as the \"Swamithope\" version, the \"Kottangadu\" version as well as the \"Panchalankurichi\" versions, are the earliest existing palm-leaf versions of Akilam. Other released versions includes the Sentrathisai Ventraperumal, the Vivekanandan, the highly criticised VTV and the earliest and commonly accepted Palaramachandran version. Akilam contains more than 15,000 verses in seventeen sections. It is written in poetic Tamil in a ballad form, and is composed with a unique literal-style with two subgenres, \"Viruttam\" and \"Natai\" throughout.\n\nThe secondary scripture, Arul Nool, includes various books that are believed to be written by Arulalarkal (one possessed by divine power). It contains prayers, hymns and instructions for the way of worship in Ayyavazhi, as well as rituals prophesy and many acts. It also contains many events found in the Akilam pertaining to the life of Vaikundar. Unlike Akilam, there is no definitive history for Arul Nool. All these texts are compiled in Tamil language.\n\nTo the Ayyavazhi devotees, there are seven holy places, called Pathis, with the Pancha pathis being the most important. The temple of the Swamithope pathi is the headquarters of the Ayyavazhi.\n\nThe five Pancha pathi are:\n1. the Swamithope Pathi, the venue of the great Tavam and the religion's headquarters.\n2. Ambala Pathi, where Vaikundar joined six of the Seven Deities unto himself.\n3. Mutta Pathi, the venue of the Second and Third Vinchais.\n4. Thamaraikulam Pathi, where the Akilattirattu Ammanai was written down.\n5. Poo Pathi, where Ayya unified the Earth goddess Poomadanthai to himself by symbolic marriage.\n\nVakaippathi, though not included in the Pancha pathis by the headquarters, is still considered as a Pathi but with lesser importance. There is disagreement among followers of Ayyavazhi regarding the holiness of some other Pathis, such as Vaikunda Pathi and Avathara Pathi. The list of Pathis announced by the headquarters of Ayyavazhi does not include these Pathis.\n\nThe symbol of Ayyavazhi is a lotus carrying a flame-shaped white \"Namam\". The lotus represents the 1,008-petalled \"Sahasrara\" (in Tamil, \"Ladam\"), while the Namam represents the \"Aanma Jyothi\" or \"atman\". Both of the Ayyavazhi scriptures refer to Thirunamam (the \"flame shaped symbol\" present in the top of the Lotus in the Ayyavazhi symbol), but not to the lotus directly. The symbol is the ideological summary of Akilam-based philosophy. This symbol has been in use since the mid-20th century.\n\nThe mythical narration in akilam about the eight yugas is often viewed philosophically as a reference to eight chakras. The first, Neetiya Yukam, is Bindu and the final state, Dharma Yukam, is Sahasrara, or absolute bliss. In this series, the energy of consciousness (\"namam\") of oneself is invoked, rising from Bindu (Neetiya Yukam) to the final Sahasrara (Dharma Yukam). This lotus, the highest spiritual center of enlightenment, is for experiencing the absolute \"bliss\". The reigning power in the final Dharma Yukam (Sahasrara) is Ekam, which is a part of Vaikundar a Trinity conception, or a manifestation of the supreme absolute. Thus Ayyavazhi's symbol is derived from Akilam. The symbol \"Lotus with Thirunamam\" shows \"Vaikundar's experienced in Sahasrara.\"\n\nIn certain Hindu texts, the Sahasrara chakra has 1000 petals. But in Ayyavazhi symbolism, Saharara has 1008 petals. In Ayyavazhi, there is no scriptural authority indicating the importance of 1000, but the number 1008 is commonly mentioned. Also, the incarnation year of Vaikundar is 1008 M.E. (Malayalam Era). Backing these scriptural identities, the 1008-petal lotus is followed in Ayyavazhi symbolism. \"Sahasrara\" is symbolised as a lotus without a stem.\n\nAyyavazhi architecture was developed in constructing Nizhal Thangals, where the inverted lotus flower of \"Sahasrara\" is used to cover the roof. The lotus may also represent the heart and the flame shape (Thirunamam), the divinity.\nAyyavazhi has used other symbols including Vaishnavite ' \"Triple Namam\" '(not used currently), and Conch.\n\nThe majority of Ayyavazhi's key teachings can be found in the book \"Akilattirattu Ammanai\" and other teachings are collated from various books written by unknown authors, whose works feature in the Arul Nool. Like Dharma, the other teachings of Ayyavazhi are twofold, sociological and mystical. The mystical teachings are devoted to revealing divine knowledge, while social teachings are primarily concerned with eliminating inequality and discrimination in society. The teachings encourage a positive relationship with God, as opposed to one based on fear. Followers are encouraged to refer to God as \"Ayya\", \"dear father\", to strengthen their intimacy and affection towards God.\n\nAyyavazhi mystics focus on supreme oneness. Among its variations, the theology always maintains this focus on oneness. The evil of Kali blocks the ultimate or supreme oneness prevailing between individual souls and the universe, creating among them a false sense of individuality and of extreme pride. This erroneous view causes the apparent sense of separation from the oneness and motivates against it. Ekam —the \"over-soul\" or the supreme soul—is identified as the whole of existence, changeless in nature and ubiquity. This is \"one which undergoes different changes with respect to space and time\" because of the evil force maya.\n\nAll of creation evolved from this Ekam, the supreme consciousness. All the qualities of Ekam are within each soul, and evolve from it. Each and every individual soul is a reflection or mirror of the absolute Supreme, Ekam, which provides the textual basis and metaphor for the mirror's role in Ayyavazhi worship. Human and all other souls are restricted and limited by the evil of Kali. This is why individual souls are not able to attain supreme bliss, and so are secondary to Ekam. Once a soul overcomes the influence of maya, it becomes one with Ekam. Its individuality is gone, and thereby it is Ekam. On the other hand, this supreme consciousness is personified as Paramatma (over-soul) by which, God is the \"Husband\", while all other souls are his \"consorts\", symbolised by Thirukkalyana Ekanai, where Vaikundar marries the individual souls. Also, the Ayyavazhi philosophy applies a common formula for the creation of human beings and the rest of the universe. Thus whatever exists externally to human beings exists also internally.\n\nAyyavazhi clearly and explicitly condemns the caste based inequalities in its social teachings. It heavily criticises the caste discrimination rather than the 'Caste system' itself.\nFrom its inception, Ayyavazhi has also served as an engine of social reform, particularly in the area of Travancore, which was previously noted for its unusually strong caste system. In this contest, the mingling of castes in Ayyavazhi centers was a vital element in the transformation of society.\n\nAyya Vaikundar was the first to succeed as a social reformer in launching political struggle, social renaissance as well as religious reformation in the country. Vaikundar was the pioneer of the social revolutionaries of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Research scholars regard Vaikundar as a teacher, healer and also a miracle worker. He was also said to be the forerunner of all social reformers of India. Akilam displayed sympathy for the laboring classes, and opposed to the often excessive taxes they were forced to pay. From the beginning the followers, fortified by the teachings, have also taken a strong stand against political oppression. This is most clearly seen in Akilam, where the Thiruvithkanur king is identified as Kalineesan, (one who is a captive of Kali) and the British are identified as Venneesan (the white neesan) in the social sense. Ayyavazhi was in the forefront of movements for Human Rights and Social Equality. Ayyavazhi also effected many social changes in southern India, resulting in the emergence of a series of social and self-respect movements such as \"Upper cloth agitation\", Temple entry agitation and other movements including those of Narayana Guru, Chattampi Swamikal, Vallalar and Ayyankali.\n\nThe followers of Ayyavazhi established \"Pathis\" and \"Nizhal Thangals\", which are centers of worship and religious learning in various parts of the country. They serve as centres for propagation of the beliefs and practices of Ayyavazhi. There are thousands of \"Nizhal Thangals\" throughout India, mostly in South India. There more than 7000 worship centres in South India mainly in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Reports from the London Missionary Society (LMS) of the mid-19th century also speak of \"Nizhal Thangals\". Since Ayyavazhi is not centrally organised, \"Swamithope pathi\" serves as the religious headquarters for all. The \"Pathi\"s earn more importance among the worship centers.\n\nThe seven \"Pathi\"s, obtain their significance from the fact that Vaikundar and his activities were historically associated with these centers of worship. The \"Swamithope pathi\", though considered the religion's headquarters, does not officially control the rest of the religious centers. All \"Pathis\", except itself, are managed by independent committees. The five \"Pathis\" known as Pancha pathi are considered foremost among Pathis.\n\nNizhal Thangals, compared with \"Pathis\", are simple small structures built for worship and for learning the teachings of Vaikundar. They also served as centers of school education during the early days. Food and shelter are offered to the needy in these centres. Some of them were established when Vaikundar was alive. Among them Arul Nool, specifies seven Thangals, and these are considered primary over the others. Today, charity is one of the main activities conducted in these centers.\n\nThese centers emerged as the abode of Dharma. The Nizhal Thangals form an important institution in the socio-religious life of the people of Ayyavazhi. Panividai may be conducted up to three times daily, but all worship centers provide Panividai at least once daily.\n\nThe ethics of Ayyavazhi, integrated with the meta-narrative mythology, are found throughout the primary scripture, \"Akilattirattu Ammanai\". Regarding ethics, Arul Nool is an accumulation of the core concepts found in Akilam. In Akilam, the ethical abstracts are pointed out as \"told by God\" at several places at different situations to lesser god-heads, devas, saints, etc. when ever asked by them.\n\nNeetham is the primary virtue of Ayyavazhi. This shows how society, its people, the ruling king, etc., lived in absolute harmony with nature, placing the power of Almighty in all their works, deeds and activities during early ages. In return, nature and the divine beings protect the society which follows the Neetham. Chastity and life in ultimate union with nature form the central theme, an ethical form that is to be followed. As in Akilam, Vinchai is the rules and regulations provided by God (Narayana) to Vaikundar. There are three such Vinchais. Acts found there also fit to humans to improve their moral code. The first \"Vinchai of Tiruchendur\" forms the largest ethical accumulation found in Akilam.\n\nTo an extent, the Dharmic teachings in Ayyavazhi are also considered as ethics. Charity in social ethics and \"attempting to realise the ultimate truth of oneness\" in spirituality are the ethical codes under the banner of Ayyavazhi dharma. Akilam also gives separate ethics for Devas also. It is notable that the Ayyavazhi ethics undergo a vast deviation from the incarnation of Vaikundar since a universal change took place then. Over all, as the foremost ethical code, people are advocated to overcome the evil force kalimayai with the weapons of love, forbearance and peace, since Kaliyan as maya rules the minds of people.\n\nArul Nool constitutes the major role in forming the rules and regulations of Ayyavazhi, including ethics. It gives separately the social as well as divine ethics. The Sivakanda Athikara Pathiram here is the section especially dedicated to teach the ethics. The rituals, especially circumambulations, are to be followed to wash-out the sin committed related to immoral thinking.\n\nIt is difficult to give a clear-cut listing to Ayyavazhi concepts because of the relation the Ayyavazhi scriptures maintains with the Hindu scriptures. Akilam primarily says the central themes of the existing scriptures (that of Hindu) had gone awry by the advent of Vaikundar. It also narrates that Akilam was given to mankind as an alternative because Kaliyan destroyed the original Vedas and Shastras, and at the beginning of Kali Yuga, several additions were given to the previous scriptures by him. Both of these view points give the views of Akilam on Hindu scriptures, and place them as reasons for rejecting them.\n\nThe philosophy, terms and mythology of the Ayyavazhi scriptures are the basis of religious study on Ayyavazhi theology. But several terms quoted in Akilam couldn't be understood wholly unless by referring to the descriptive details of those terms in Hindu scriptures. For example, if the 96 tatvas are understood, then the Kaliyan is understood. Therefore, theologians and philosophers today turn to Hindu scriptures to further their understanding of the tatvas as properties of the human body, which are not elaborated upon in Akilam. However, to understand Akilam and its philosophy, one should have a basic knowledge over the Hindu ideas and concepts. Since Akilam have no different view in this matter from Hindu scriptures, it was left to be gathered from there.\n\nOn mythical studies, Akilam covers almost the entire main mythology of Hinduism, including Mahabharata, Ramayana, Kantha Purana and Vishnu Purana, but with limited details. It includes only the main events that are directly linked to the main-stream story flow. But to undergo a detailed study on each, the appropriate Hindu scriptures that include those events in detail need to be referred. Akilam provides all these collectively in brief with an overall story line, which make it unique. Many philosophical concepts from Hinduism are found in Akilam; some of them are completely accepted, some are regenerated, while others are rejected.\n\nGenerally it was considered that once a particular concept is not found well-described in Ayyavazhi scriptures, such as Akilattirattu Ammanai or Arul Nool (as detail as in Hindu scriptures), and instead simply was quoted, then that particular conception is accepted as in Hindu scriptures for religious studies. But once Akilam has different views over something from that of the existing (Hindu) scriptures, then it would be found deeply described in Akilam itself and hence no need for referring other scriptures.\n\nThe theology of Ayyavazhi differs considerably from other monistic religions. It speaks of Ekam, the Oneness from which all that exists formed, and also an ultimate oneness that exists behind all differences. The Ekam, which is articulated as the supreme divine power itself, is supposed to remain unaffected by maya deep inside every changeable matter as an absolute constant. In theological terms, God is, in the highest sense, formless, infinite, genderless and beyond time and space. The term Ekam in Tamil language give simply the meanings, \"one\", \"absolute\", \"the whole which exists\" and \"the incomparable\"; all give some sort of direct monistic definition about God from Ayyavazhi theology.\n\nNarrating through mythology, The \"Sivam\" and the \"Sakthi\" are the first to get evolved from Ekam. The \"Natham\"(voice), Trimurthi, other lesser gods and the entire universe further evolved. The Trimurthi are greater among the personified Devas. Siva, one among the Trimurthi, was the supreme power until Kali Yuga. Vishnu is the supreme from the advent of Kali Yuga. Then, from the incarnation of Vaikundar, again the powers of all god-heads, including that of Vishnu, is transformed to Vaikundar. Ekam, the supreme oneness as one among the Trinity takes a place within Vaikundar for the present age. Therefore, Vaikundar is said to be the only worshippable and supreme power. However, a quote from Akilam thirteen says this supreme oneness (Ekam) itself is created by Vaikundar, who is a personified God. In this regard, Ayyavazhi being centered on Vaikundar, is more monotheistic rather than monistic. No other god-heads, even the Father of Vaikundar, Narayana, have gained an equal or greater status than Vaikundar. Vaikundar is a turine power who includes the qualities of the Santror, Narayana and Ekam within himself.\n\nIn Ayyavazhi mythology, Kroni, a primordial evil manifestation, was fragmented into six and each fragment took birth and plays an anti-Vishnu role throughout the successive six yugas. He was finally destroyed by a final judgment which is followed by the god-ruled Dharma Yukam. This narration gives some dualistic dimension to Ayyavazhi theology. But since the focus of Arul Nool, the accumulation of Ayyavazhi teachings is extremely monistic and since the final fragment of Kroni itself is called \"Kalimayai\" (a conception rather than a physical or material incarnation), it was commonly accepted that the 'Maya' is symbolised in such a way that contrasts the dualistic view on Ayyavazhi. Apart from all these, there are also separate quotes in Ayyavazhi scriptures which give pantheistic and panentheistic definition to Ayyavazhi theology.\n\nThere are two yearly festivals for Ayyavazhi. The Ayya Vaikunda Avataram is celebrated on the twentieth day of the Tamil month \"Masi\" (March – April). This is the only Ayyavazhi festival to be celebrated as per the Solar calendar. The mass procession conducted on this day from Nagercoil to Swamithoppe is a popular one in this part of the country. The Thiru Edu-Vasippu is a festival of seventeen days celebrated in the Tamil month of Karthigai (November–December). This celebration of textual reciting as a festival itself is a unique feature to Ayyavazhi. Apart from this, there is a tri-yearly celebration of Kodiyettru Thirunal in Swamithope. Another unique feature is the celebration of every day as a festival in Swamithope,(exclusive to Swamithope) called as \" 'Nitham Thirunal' \".\n\nIn addition to the philosophical concepts and mythology, the rituals of Ayyavazhi evolved in their own way. Most of the rituals have different operational and historical meanings. Historically, the rituals were used or viewed as an attempt to break the caste-based inequalities prevailed in the society of the time, and to strengthen and uplift the sociologically downtrodden and ill-treated. Examples of this include the charity on food as \" 'Anna Dharmam' \", physical as well as spiritual cleanliness through Thuvayal Thavasu, eliminating untouchability through Thottunamam, self-respect and courage through headgear, and unifying various castes through Muthirikkinaru.\n\nBut they too reveal, however, high philosophical ideas preached in a ritual language. The Muthirikkinaru and Thirunamam are treated religiously as if the \"Patham\" and \"Namam\" of them have the power to heal all sorts of mental as well as physical illness. Thuvayal thavasu is suggested as a training to reach the ultimate aim of Dharma Yukam. The use of the crown reveals that \"all are kings\", visualising an ideology similar to \"advaita\". Also, Ayyavazhi scriptures succeeded very much in helping to understand these philosophical ideas to the common mass which is very much unusual. The individual rituals, the ecstatic religiosity and the ritual healing, which are the features of Ayyavazhi worship, contributed to the formation of an idea of emancipation and a social discourse. Rituals attempt to uplift and treat the disenfranchised. Another important thing to be noted is the alternative phrases religiously used in Ayyavazhi universe different from Hinduism, to represent certain practices.\n\nThe formula of inclusiveness and exclusivity, as applied in the religio-cultural universe of Ayyavazhi, is unique because both the theories are mixed up in Ayyavazhi scriptures. The inclusive theory accepts the views of different religions for a certain period of time, and from then onwards exclusively rejects all of them in its narrative.\n\nAyyavazhi accepts different god-heads of several religions, like the concept of Allah and almost all the god-heads of Hinduism. It also says that the one and the same God incarnates in different parts of the world at different time for rescuing the people from sufferings. But due to the advent of Kaliyan and because of the cruel nature of his boons, for the first time, the supreme power Ekam incarnates in the world as Vaikundar, and so all the lesser god-heads and previous scriptures had lost their substances. So after the time of the Vaikunda Avatar, Vaikundar was said to be the only worshippable God and hence, the theology of Ayyavazhi was channeled towards exclusivism. The manner in which Akilam treats the scriptures of different religions is complicated. For instance, while there is no direct reference to the terms 'Christ' or 'Bible' anywhere in any of the Ayyavazhi texts, there is an indirect reference in Akilam thirteen which is supposed to be an implication that Christ was an incarnation of Narayana, but it was widely thought that it did not recognise the Bible composition. It seems the view of Akilam on Bible is \"it was created with the intention of man and not that of God\". In common, creation of religions and shaping individualities for them are heavily criticised. The concepts 'God' and 'Religion' are kept poles apart in Akilam, and it seems to maintain an ideology something like \" 'Accept God; Reject religion' \".\n\nAyyavazhi accepts various incarnations in Hinduism, but necessarily rejects the so-called ' \"Hindu\" ' scriptures. It initially accepts Vedas. Later since Kaliyan had bought the Vedas as boon they too lost their substance by the advent of Kaliyan, and so had gone invalid. It also says that he (Kaliyan) had performed several additions and had hidden some of their content. And hence God incarnated as Vaikundar. So for the present age, Akilam is said to be the only \" 'Book of Perfection' \". By this Ayyavazhi rejects all other scriptures and follows only its own. Akilam highly condemns the creation of religions especially exclusivistic religious and theological ideas. It shows them as the foremost \"Kali mayai\" (evil of Kali). The scriptures teach sensibly and symbolically that God and his activities are beyond the reach of religions. It also preaches about universal oneness.\n\nThe mythology of Ayyavazhi narrates that the essence of this vision is an account of a history – a past, a present and a future – meant by weaving together of empirical facts, historical events as well as mythical accounts. It moves around three axiomatic typologies, namely Santror, Kali Yukam and Dharma Yukam, placing their base on the concepts and events of previous yugas that are associated also with Hindu mythology. The basic concepts give a symbolic vision which is at once religious and social.\n\nIt is closely linked to that of Hinduism. Akilam talks about the previous yugas and the evolution of Kroni through them. Events, mythical characters, and concepts are shared with Hinduism, though they may be engendered in different form. The number of Yugas and Avatars differs in Ayyavazhi from Hinduism. The personification of the entity of Evil for the current yuga, Kaliyan, is unique to Ayyavazhi. Akilam says that the true concepts were destroyed, so that all previous scriptures had lost their substances due to the advent of Kali.\n\nThe book also speaks of God incarnating in the world in the Kali Yukam (the present age) to destroy the evil spirit, the final and the most serious manifestation of Kroni. God incarnates as Vaikundar, and since Vaikundar lived recently, he was well known in history. So in the second part of the mythology many mythical as well as historical facts were woven together. Most of the events such as Muthirikkinaru, Wearing of Headgear during worship, Thuvayal Thavasu all were noted in history.\n\nThough there are quotes in Arul Nool to accredit the ten Avatars of Vishnu, it seems that they are not seen in equal status with these incarnations (as in the table). It was considered secondary to the primary avatars, who are associated with the destructions of the fragments of Kroni. This view is not inconsistent with Hinduism, as only Narasimha, Rama and Krishna are considered the primary avatars who are still worshipped. The other avatars are considered secondary avatars who are not worshipped.\n\nThe Santror is the subject of the religious vision of Ayyavazhi. There is both a religious and a social category in its connotation. In the social sense, it is believed that the term Santror fits rightly to the early \"Chanars\", who were called by the Arabs as \"Al Hind\", and known in biblical times as the \"People of Five Rivers\"; they are now scattered with more than 250 branches throughout the world. But in turn, in ideological sense and from the literary meaning of the term \"Santror\" in Tamil, it represents one who is noble and lives with dignity and supreme knowledge, giving an inclusive character and universal reach. Historians account that in ancient dravidian cultures, zealous devotees of God were called as 'Chanars'. A quote from Akilam too reads, \"Chanars (Santror) are those who have the ability to see 'the invisible' constantly.\"\n\nThe Santror are given a historical background in Ayyavazhi mythology as seven boys who were made to be born in the mythical garden Ayodha Amirtha Vanam \"(supposed to be between present-day Srirangam, Tamil Nadu and Triconamalee, Sri Lanka)\" by using the seven seeds from seven upper worlds, by Thirumal, to the seven virgins. Theologians interpret that these 'Seven boys' refer to the ancestors of the whole human race, and hence the term \"Santror\" refers to the entire human race. Their lineage started at the end phase of Dvapara Yukam and continued through the Kali Yukam into the Dharma Yukam. It is believed that Kali is being destroyed continuously by the activities of the Santror in the Path of Vaikundar, and so the Dharma Yukam unfolds eventually. In this sense they have a considerable roll in the destruction of Kali, the foremost evil.\n\nThe Ayyavazhi proposes an emancipatory utopia under the banner of Dharma Yukam. The basis of the belief is that Ayya Vaikundar had come to establish and rule as the everlasting king over the Dharma Yukam in the place of Kali Yukam after sentencing Kroni to hell by a final judgment from the Lion-throne of \"Dwaraka pathi\", the rising mythical landmass (which was sunken at the end of Dwapara Yuga by Krishna) located south east of present-day Kanyakumari. The Dharma Yukam is narrated as beyond the limits of time and space. It is often related to Moksha—the personal liberation, and to the state of 'Oneness' too.\n\nThe Hindu and Ayyavazhi ideologies are closely tied to each other. The place where Ayyavazhi and Hinduism depart from each other is at the advent of Kali Yuga. Akilam says that until the advent of Kali Yuga, the Vedas and all other Hindu scriptures remained with Divinity. Each of the gods referred to in the scriptures (Hindu) also remained with all their powers. But from the beginning of Kali Yuga, they and all their virtues collapsed. Kaliyan was a part of the mundane primordial manifestation who spread maya or illusion upon the existing scriptures and Devas. In Kali Yuga, all true scriptures are bound to maya and are unhelpful.\n\nThe reason, as stated in Akilam for the disintegration of the entire system is that, towards the end of Dwapara Yuga, there in Mount Kailash, Siva believing the words of devas, created Kaliyan without discussing to Vishnu, who had the responsibility to destroy Kaliyan as per previous deeds. So Vishnu refused to take birth in the world to destroy Kaliyan. So Siva and Brahma surrendered all their powers to Vishnu. Until this event, Siva was the supreme power as per Akilam. It is notable that this is a theological idea something similar to Shaivism, where Siva is supreme to all. Then onwards, however, Vishnu is the supreme power. Here the ideology changes similar to that of Vaishnavism. This supremacy of Vishnu remains like this from the beginning of Kali Yuga until the incarnation of Vaikundar, from where it changes further.\n\nDuring the incarnation, Vishnu himself can not incarnate directly in the world to destroy Kaliyan, since he (Kaliyan) had bought as boon the power of Devas, including Vishnu's, and spread it all over the world as maya. So God needs to be incarnated with a new set of rules and with unique importance. A total universal transformation of the power relation of god-heads, the rules of scriptures, the dharma, etc., took place, and Vaikundar was given birth by taking in the power of Ekam, by Lakshmi and Vishnu conjoining together inside the sea.\n\nAnd from now onwards all the powers were handled over from Vishnu to Vaikundar inside the sea. Siva, Vishnu and Brahma therefore form a part within Vaikundar. This ideology about Trimurthi (three are equal in power) is similar to that of Smartism. Vishnu alone forms a double role; one, within Vaikundar, and the other, as the father of him, remain inside the sea and regulating Vaikundar through Vinchais. After Vaikundar was given birth to, by assuming the Power of Ekam, Vaikundar was supreme to Vishnu and all other God-heads, though Vishnu playing the role of Father to Vaikundar. However, Vaikundar had to obey the order of Vishnu, since Vaikundar was given birth to perform the duties of Vishnu, which he (Vishnu) could not do. Vaikundar (and scriptures given by him) is the manifestation of the supreme Ekam so, in Ayyavazhi spirituality, he is the only worshippable universal power\n\nRegarding scriptures, the first part of Akilam is summed-up events of the previous yugas, which are present in Hindu scriptures. The second part says about the universal transformation and the uniqueness of Vaikundar and his incarnational activities. So as a summary, till the beginning of Kali yuga, what is Hinduism, that is Ayyavazhi. From then onwards for a series of reasons, Akilam says that 'Hindu' scriptures and its ideology had lost its purity and was destroyed, and so the Dharma was re-configured in the name of Akilam and Vaikundar and the 'Hindu' ideas were re-formed.\n\n\"Akilam\" points out its basis as a regeneration of Dharma in the form of an entirely new ideology. But today, most of the followers of Ayyavazhi address Vaikundar merely as the incarnation of Vishnu. Likewise, most of the Nizhal Thangals were called \"Narayana Swami Pathi\" or \"Narayana Swami Temple\", similar to Hindu Vaishnavism. Most of the followers also worship Hindu deities such as Kali, Hanuman and other folk deities in spite of the anti-polytheistic ideas based on Ayyavazhi scripture.\n\nSome followers of Ayyavazhi include Vaikundar as part of the ten Avatars of Vishnu as Kalki, while some denominations strongly advocate moksha, the personal liberation, though it is not stated directly in Akilam. Some even reject the Trinity conception in Ayyavazhi and believe Narayana to be the supreme universal power. The unique monotheistic belief which is the central theme of Akilam is completely unknown among most of the followers today. Deviating far away from the strict monotheistic teachings of Akilam, some thangals provides \"panividais\" for other lesser gods too.\n\nThe spread of Ayyavazhi among the common people was mainly due to the practice of Shamanism. Being similar to Hindus in almost all aspects Ayyavazhi followers are hard to be identified. The only sign to distinguish the practitioners of Ayyavazhi is the fact that they wore the Thirunamam (a sign on their forehead). The Nizhal Thangals are identified among the other temples by the fact that idols are replaced by mirrors in the Palliyarai. Only the recitations of a handful of scholars educated in the Ayyavazhi scriptures point out the real facts and concepts of Akilam and the philosophical and ideological deviation of Ayyavazhi from Hinduism. Not even the Payyans from the headquarters able to portray the Akilam-based ideology clearly. All these philosophical, ideological and religious variations in the society of Ayyavazhi make them hard to be identified and differentiated as a separate belief and instead taken as a Hindu sect.\n\nThere is a common belief that Ayya Vaikundar is a prophet and he had made many prophecies during his earthly years. On the contrary, there are no implications in Akilam or other books of Arul Nool that Vaikundar himself foretold anything, except in Thiruvasagam 4, Akilam:12. The common mis-understanding is because, the Akilam and Arul Nool includes hundreds of Prophecies and the contents of both the books is being divinely revealed to the Seedars by Vaikundar and the Seedars brought them to the written form. So, instead of the prophecies in both the books being considered that of Seedars it is mis-understood that the prophecies is of Vaikundar. Robert Caldwell, one among the very few historians of the contemporary period (who's views are always overwhelmingly negative on Vaikundar, since himself being a LMS Christian missionary), too referred to the then belief that seedars (disciples) profess to foretell events.\n\nAyyavazhi worship was marked by its simplicity. The absence of idol worship and priestly mediation, and inclusion of alternate type of centres of worship, the Pathis and Nizhal Thangals, were other characteristics of Ayyavazhi worship. Rituals of Ayyavazhi are a reform or revolutionary activity, focusing upon social equality, deviating from Hinduism. The rituals are also characterised and bound by religious beliefs that give them an alternative spiritual meaning. Its scriptures cover basic elements and ideas throughout Hinduism. They refer to Shastras, Agamas, Vedas and Puranas. But address them all to be gone awry by the Advent of Vaikundar, from where Ayyavazhi scriptures forms negative ideas over all other traditions. Though Ayyavazhi shares many god-heads with Hinduism, it weaves unique ideology and power assumption for them. Ayyavazhi can be portrayed as a \"Hindu renaissance\". Ayyavazhi is viewed as a reform movement too, as it brought many social changes there in the Tamil and keralite society during the 19th century.\n\nThe religious structure evolved in the path of Ayyavazhi scriptures and, as a result, it transfigured itself as an alternative religio-cultural system in the social category. The Ayyavazhis addressed their system as \"Path of God\" with the phrase \"Ayya Vazhi\". On one hand, they believe that their tradition had come to replace all old traditions (religions), but on the other hand, they believe that Ayyavazhi is the synopsis of the world's religious knowledge. On one hand, they believe that Vaikundar unified all deities within him; on the other, as all the previous had gone awry by the advent of Vaikundar. Apart from this, Ayyavazhi has separate theology, mythology, holy places, worship centres, and ethics of its own. \nThough many new papers, academic researchers and some of its followers consider it as a separate religion, many of the followers are even of the opinion that this is but a Hindu sect rather than an autonomous religion. They indulge in the mystic practices of possessions and divinations similar to the tribal religions of Tamil Nadu. Also, many of its core beliefs are similar to some Hindu sects such as Advaita and Smartism.\n\nRegarding demographics, Ayyavazhi followers are highly concentrated in South India though found across India, comparatively in less numbers. In Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli districts of Tamil Nadu, it is very hard to find a village without a worship centre of Ayyavazhi. Apart from the listings from the religious headquarters (though it is evident that Ayyavazhi followers are spread across the India from university papers) there are no official figures for the number of followers of Ayyavazhi because they are considered Hindus in the census.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14817552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14817552", "title": "Bisan", "text": "Bisan\n\nIn Malaysian folklore, the Bisan (meaning \"woman\") is a female nature spirit or deity widely venerated among the Malay and Jakun natives. It is believed that every species of tree has a unique spirit presiding over it, and the Bisan is said to be the specific guardian of the camphor-bearing tree. She can appear in the form of a cicada, and even makes cicada-like sounds at night when she sings—a sure indication that camphor will be found nearby. However, the Bisan is a very jealous spirit, and will drive away anyone looking for camphor unless she is correctly propitiated. Offerings of food may be given to her, and she may also accept the sacrifice of a white cockerel. To prevent the Bisan even further, a person must speak to her only in \"bahasa kapor\" or \"patang kapor\" (\"camphor language\", a mixture of Malay and Jakun), an artificial language specifically made to completely confuse the Bisan long enough for the person to look for camphor unhindered. \n"}
{"id": "1558717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558717", "title": "Boethusians", "text": "Boethusians\n\nThe Boethusians () were a Jewish sect closely related to, if not a development of, the Sadducees.\n\nThe post-Talmudic work Avot de-Rabbi Natan gives the following origin of the schism between the Pharisees and Sadducees/Boethusians: Antigonus of Sokho having taught the maxim, \"Be not like the servants who serve their masters for the sake of the wages, but be rather like those who serve without thought of receiving wages\", his two pupils, Zadok and Boethus, repeated this maxim to their pupils. In the course of time, either the two teachers or their pupils understood this to express the belief that there was neither an afterlife nor a resurrection of the dead and founded the sects of the Sadducees and the Boethusians. They lived in luxurious splendor; using silver and golden vessels all their lives, not because they were haughty, but because (as they claimed) the Pharisees led a hard life on earth and yet would have nothing to show for it in the world to come.\n\nThis story is historical, in that the two groups, the Sadducees and the Boethusians, denied the immortality of the soul and the resurrection. Again, the Midrash is on the whole correct in saying that the sects found their followers chiefly among the wealthy; but the origin of the sects is legendary. The Mishnah, as well as the Baraita, mentions the Boethusians as opposing the Pharisees in saying that the sheaf due at the Passover (compare Omer) must be offered not on the second feast-day, but on the day after the actual Shabbat of the festival week, and, accordingly, that Pentecost, which comes seven weeks and one day later, should always be celebrated on Sunday. In another passage it is narrated that the Boethusians hired false witnesses in order to lead the Pharisees astray in their calculations of the new moon. Another point of dispute between the Boethusians and the Pharisees was whether the high priest should prepare the incense inside or outside the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement\n\nAs the beginnings of this sect are shrouded in obscurity, so also is the length of its duration. The Talmud mentions a Boethusian in a dispute with a pupil of Rabbi Akiva (Shab. 108a; Soferim i. 2); yet it is probable that the word here means simply a sectarian, a heretic, just as the term \"Sadducee\" was used in a much wider sense later on. A Boethus, son of Zonim, and nearly contemporaneous with Akiva (compare Yer. l.c. 10b), is mentioned in the Mishnah (B. M. v. 3); he was not, however, a Boethusian, but a pious merchant. An amora, c. 300 C.E., was also called \"Boethus\".\n\nA parallel to the Yoma 19b has \"Sadducees\" instead of \"Boethusians\"; and in other passages the Talmud undoubtedly uses these two terms indifferently in designating the same sect. Graetz's assumption, therefore, that the Sadducees were the political and the Boethusians the religious opponents of the Pharisees, is untenable.\n\nThe Boethusians are believed to have been associated with the members of the high-priestly family of Boethus. Simon, son of Boethus from Alexandria, was made a high priest about 25 BCE by Herod the Great, in order that his marriage with Boethus's daughter, Mariamne, might not be regarded as a \"mésalliance\", a marriage with a person thought to be unsuitable or of a lower social position.\n\nThe family of Boethus produced the following high priests: \nOr Boethus himself (24-5 BC)\n(4 BC and before 6 AD), unpopular and an advocate of compliance with the Roman census\n\n(4-3 BC) independently attested in the Mandaean Sidra d-Yahia.\n\n(64 AD), whose wife Martha belonged to the house\n\nThe hatred of the Pharisees toward this high-priestly family is shown by the words of the tanna Abba Saul b. Baṭnit, who lived about the year 40 CE at Jerusalem. It must be especially noticed that \"the house of Boethus\" heads the list of the wicked and sinful priestly families enumerated by Abba.\n\nAs Talmudic sources never mention the Essenes but do mention the Boethusians, while Greek sources (including Josephus) never mention the Boethusians as such but mention the Essenes as a prominent group, and as the Essenes are often identified with the sect that produced the Dead Sea Scrolls, which do indeed bear some similarity to views attributed to the Boethusians by the Talmud, the suggestion has been made that the two groups were more or less identical, the word \"Boethusian\" being a corruption of \"Beit Essaya,\" or \"House of Essenes.\" This is admittedly a highly speculative position with little actual evidence to back it up, but is sometimes seen as the most likely explanation at the very least.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12981998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12981998", "title": "Charles Birch", "text": "Charles Birch\n\nLouis Charles Birch FAA (8 February 1918 in Melbourne – 19 December 2009) was an Australian geneticist specialising in population ecology and was also well known as a theologian, writing widely on the topic of science and religion, winning the Templeton Prize in 1990. The prize recognised his work ascribing intrinsic value to all life.\n\nBirch was born in Melbourne on 8 February 1918, the son of Harry Birch, a New Zealand-born bank manager with the ES&A Bank, and his Irish-born wife, Nora. He had a twin brother, Sidney, and an older brother, Hugh. Birch attended Scotch College, Melbourne, and focused on agriculture at university in Melbourne.\n\nBirch was educated at University of Melbourne, receiving a Bachelor of Agricultural Science in 1939. His first job was in the entomology department at the Waite Agricultural Research Institute at the University of Adelaide, where he earned a Doctorate of Science in 1941.\n\nDuring his six years of entomological research with his then-supervisor, Herbert Andrewartha, with whom he forged a close relationship, Birch demonstrated that external processes, driven by weather and other types of disturbance, were vastly important in controlling the numbers and distribution of animals. This radical challenge to the prevailing views, namely that populations were self-regulating based on competition for limited resources, became one of Birch's major and enduring contributions to the science of ecology.\n\nIn 1948, Birch became a senior lecturer in the Department of Zoology at the University of Sydney. Birch was later promoted to Reader in Zoology in 1954, and then the Challis Chair of Biology, which he held for 25 years from 1960 to 1984.\n\nBirch credited Dr Herbert Andrewartha as having a great influence on him, teaching him \"to think\" and to discover \"the social responsibility of the scientist\", saying:\nIn view of the enormous transformation of the modern world as a result of science and technology, the scientist is responsible for much that has happened both good and bad. This understanding is based on the premise that science is not value free.\n\nCharles Birch never married. He was survived by his twin, Sidney, and sister-in-law, Jenny.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "150391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150391", "title": "Donovan", "text": "Donovan\n\nDonovan Philips Leitch (born 10 May 1946) is a Scottish singer, songwriter and guitarist. He developed an eclectic and distinctive style that blended folk, jazz, pop, psychedelia, and world music (notably calypso). He has lived in Scotland, Hertfordshire (England), London, California, and since at least 2008 in County Cork, Ireland, with his family. Emerging from the British folk scene, Donovan reached fame in the United Kingdom in early 1965 with live performances on the pop TV series \"Ready Steady Go!\".\n\nHaving signed with Pye Records in 1965, he recorded singles and two albums in the folk vein, after which he signed to CBS/Epic Records in the US – the first signing by the company's new vice-president Clive Davis – and became more successful internationally. He began a long and successful collaboration with leading British independent record producer Mickie Most, scoring multiple hit singles and albums in the UK, US, and other countries.\n\nHis most successful singles were the early UK hits \"Catch the Wind\", \"Colours\" and \"Universal Soldier\" in 1965. In September 1966 \"Sunshine Superman\" topped America's Billboard Hot 100 chart for one week and went to number two in Britain, followed by \"Mellow Yellow\" at US No. 2 in December 1966, then 1968's \"Hurdy Gurdy Man\" in the Top 5 in both countries, then \"Atlantis\", which reached US No. 7 in May 1969.\n\nHe became a friend of pop musicians including Joan Baez, Brian Jones and The Beatles. He taught John Lennon a finger-picking guitar style in 1968 that Lennon employed in \"Dear Prudence\", \"Julia\", \"Happiness Is a Warm Gun\" and other songs. Donovan's commercial fortunes waned after parting with Most in 1969, and he left the industry for a time.\n\nDonovan continued to perform and record sporadically in the 1970s and 1980s. His musical style and hippie image were scorned by critics, especially after punk rock. His performing and recording became sporadic until a revival in the 1990s with the emergence of Britain's rave scene. He recorded the 1996 album \"Sutras\" with producer Rick Rubin and in 2004 made a new album, \"Beat Cafe\". Donovan was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2012 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2014.\n\nDonovan was born on 10 May 1946, in Maryhill, Glasgow, to Donald and Winifred (née Philips) Leitch. His father was Protestant and his mother was Catholic. He contracted polio as a child. The disease and treatment left him with a limp. In 1956, his family moved to the new town of Hatfield, Hertfordshire, England. Influenced by his family's love of folk music, he began playing the guitar at 14. He enrolled in art school but soon dropped out, to live out his beatnik aspirations by going on the road.\n\nReturning to Hatfield, Donovan spent several months playing in local clubs, absorbing the folk scene around his home in St Albans, learning the crosspicking guitar technique from local players such as Mac MacLeod and Mick Softley and writing his first songs. In 1964, he travelled to Manchester with Gypsy Dave, then spent the summer in Torquay, Devon. In Torquay he stayed with Mac MacLeod and took up busking, studying the guitar, and learning traditional folk and blues.\n\nIn late 1964, Donovan was offered a management and publishing contract by Peter Eden and Geoff Stephens of Pye Records in London, for which he recorded a 10-track demo tape (later released on iTunes), which included the original of his first single, \"Catch the Wind\", and \"Josie\". The first song revealed the influence of Woody Guthrie and Ramblin' Jack Elliott, who had also influenced Bob Dylan. Dylan comparisons followed for some time. In an interview with KFOK radio in the US on 14 June 2005, MacLeod said: \"The press were fond of calling Donovan a Dylan clone as they had both been influenced by the same sources: Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Jesse Fuller, Woody Guthrie, and many more.\"\n\nWhile recording the demo, Donovan befriended Brian Jones of the Rolling Stones, who was recording nearby. He had recently met Jones' ex-girlfriend, Linda Lawrence, who is the mother of Jones' son, Julian Brian (Jones) Leitch. The on-off romantic relationship that developed over five years was a force in Donovan's career. She influenced Donovan's music but refused to marry him and she moved to the United States for several years in the late 1960s. They met by chance in 1970 and married soon after. Donovan had other relationships – one of which resulted in the birth of his first two children, Donovan Leitch and Ione Skye, both of whom became actors.\n\nDuring Bob Dylan's trip to the UK in the spring of 1965, the British music press were making comparisons of the two singer-songwriters and going so far as to stir up allegations of a rivalry, and other luminaries of the pop scene were chiming in. The Rolling Stones guitarist Brian Jones said,\n\nDonovan is the undercurrent In D. A. Pennebaker's film \"Don't Look Back\" documenting Dylan's tour. Near the start of the film, Dylan opens a newspaper and exclaims, \"Donovan? Who is this Donovan?\" and his associates spur the rivalry on by telling Dylan that Donovan is a better guitar player, but that he had only been around for three months. Throughout the film Donovan's name is seen next to Dylan's on newspaper headlines and on posters in the background, and Dylan and his friends refer to him consistently.\n\nDonovan finally appears in the second half of the film, along with Derroll Adams, in Dylan's suite at the Savoy Hotel despite Donovan's management refusing to allow journalists to be present, saying they did not want \"any stunt on the lines of the disciple meeting the messiah\". According to Pennebaker, Dylan told him not to film the encounter, and Donovan played a song that sounded just like \"Mr. Tambourine Man\" but with different words. When confronted with lifting his tune, Donovan said that he thought it was an old folk song. Once the camera rolled, Donovan plays his song, \"To Sing For You\", and then asks Dylan to play \"Baby Blue\". Dylan later told \"Melody Maker\": \"He played some songs to me. ... I like him. ... He's a nice guy.\" \"Melody Maker\" noted that Dylan had mentioned Donovan in his song \"Talking World War Three Blues\" and that the crowd had jeered, to which Dylan had responded backstage: \"I didn't mean to put the guy down in my songs. I just did it for a joke, that's all.\"\n\nIn an interview for the BBC in 2001 to mark Dylan's 60th birthday, Donovan acknowledged Dylan as an influence early in his career while distancing himself from \"Dylan clone\" allegations:\n\nIn late 1965, Donovan split with his original management and signed with Ashley Kozak, who was working for Brian Epstein's NEMS Enterprises. Kozak introduced Donovan to American impresario Allen Klein (later manager of the Rolling Stones and The Beatles). Klein in turn introduced Donovan to producer Mickie Most, who had chart-topping productions with The Animals, Lulu, and Herman's Hermits. Most produced all Donovan's recordings during this period, although Donovan said in his autobiography that some recordings were self-produced, with little input from Most. Their collaboration produced successful singles and albums, recorded with London session players including Big Jim Sullivan, Jack Bruce, Danny Thompson, and future Led Zeppelin members John Paul Jones and Jimmy Page.\n\nMany of Donovan's late 1960s recordings featured musicians including his key musical collaborator John Cameron on piano, Danny Thompson (from Pentangle) or Spike Heatley on upright bass, Tony Carr on drums and congas and Harold McNair on saxophone and flute. Carr's conga style and McNair's flute playing are a feature of many recordings. Cameron, McNair and Carr also accompanied Donovan on several concert tours and can be heard on his 1968 live album \"Donovan in Concert\".\n\nBy 1966, Donovan had shed the Dylan/Guthrie influences and become one of the first British pop musicians to adopt flower power. He immersed himself in jazz, blues, Eastern music, and the new generation of counterculture-era US West Coast bands such as Jefferson Airplane and The Grateful Dead. He was entering his most creative phase as a songwriter and recording artist, working with Mickie Most and with arranger, musician, and jazz fan John Cameron. Their first collaboration was \"Sunshine Superman\", one of the first psychedelic pop records.\n\nDonovan's rise stalled in December 1965 when \"Billboard\" broke news of the impending production deal between Klein, Most, and Donovan, and then reported that Donovan was to sign with Epic Records in the US. Despite Kozak's denials, Pye Records dropped the single and a contract dispute ensued, because Pye had a US licensing arrangement with Warner Bros. Records. As a result, the UK release of the \"Sunshine Superman\" LP was delayed for months, robbing it of the impact it would have had. Another outcome was that the UK and US versions of this and later albums differed – three of his Epic LPs were not released in the UK, and \"Sunshine Superman\" was issued in a different form in each country. Several tracks on his late 1960s Epic (US) LPs were not released in the UK for many years. The legal dispute continued into early 1966. During the hiatus, Donovan holidayed in Greece, where he wrote \"Writer in the Sun\", inspired by rumours that his recording career was over. He toured the US and appeared on episode 23 of Pete Seeger's television show \"Rainbow Quest\" in 1966 with Shawn Phillips and Rev. Gary Davis. After his return to London, he developed his friendship with Paul McCartney and contributed the line \"sky of blue and sea of green\" to \"Yellow Submarine\".\n\nBy late 1966, the American contract problems had been resolved, and Donovan signed a $100,000 deal with Epic Records. Donovan and Most went to CBS Studios in Los Angeles, where they recorded tracks for an LP, much composed during the preceding year. Although folk elements were prominent, the album showed increasing influence of jazz, American west coast psychedelia and folk rock – especially The Byrds. The LP sessions were completed in May, and \"Sunshine Superman\" was released in the US as a single in June. It was a success, selling 800,000 in six weeks and reaching No. 1. It went on to sell over one million, and was awarded a gold disc. The LP followed in August, preceded by orders of 250,000 copies, reached No. 11 on the US album chart and sold over half a million.\n\nThe US version of the \"Sunshine Superman\" album is in chamber-style folk-jazz arrangements, and features instruments including acoustic bass, sitar, saxophone, tablas and congas, harpsichord, strings and oboe. Highlights include the swinging \"The Fat Angel\", which Donovan's book confirms was written for Cass Elliot of The Mamas & the Papas. The song is notable for naming the Jefferson Airplane before they became known internationally and before Grace Slick joined. Other tracks include \"Bert's Blues\" (a tribute to Bert Jansch), \"Guinevere\", and \"Legend of a Girl Child Linda\", a track featuring voice, acoustic guitar and a small orchestra for over six minutes.\n\nThe album also features the sitar, which was played by American folk-rock singer Shawn Phillips. Donovan met Phillips in London in 1965, and he became a friend and early collaborator, playing acoustic guitar and sitar on recordings including \"Sunshine Superman\" as well as accompanying Donovan at concerts and on Pete Seeger's TV show. Creatively, Phillips served as a silent partner in the gestation of many of Donovan's songs from the era, with the singer later acknowledging that Phillips primarily composed \"Season of the Witch\". Several songs including the title track had a harder edge. The driving, jazzy \"The Trip\", named after a Los Angeles club name, chronicled an LSD trip during his time in L.A. and is loaded with references to his sojourn on the West Coast, and names Dylan and Baez. The third \"heavy\" song was \"Season of the Witch\". Recorded with American and British session players, it features Donovan's first recorded performance on electric guitar. The song was covered by Julie Driscoll, Brian Auger & The Trinity on their first LP in 1967, and Al Kooper and Stephen Stills recorded an 11-minute version on the 1968 album, \"Super Session\". Donovan's version is also in the closing sequence of the Gus Van Sant film, \"To Die For\". \n\nBecause of earlier contractual problems, the UK version of \"Sunshine Superman\" LP was not released for another nine months. This was a compilation of tracks from the US albums \"Sunshine Superman\" and \"Mellow Yellow\". Donovan did not choose the tracks.\n\nOn 24 October 1966, Epic released the single \"Mellow Yellow\", arranged by John Paul Jones and purportedly featuring Paul McCartney on backing vocals, but not in the chorus. In his autobiography Donovan explained \"electrical banana\" was a reference to a \"yellow-coloured vibrator\". The song became Donovan's signature tune in the US and reached No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100, No. 3 on the Cash Box chart, and earned a gold record award for sales of more than one million in the US.\n\nThrough the first half of 1967, Donovan worked on a double-album studio project, which he produced. In January he gave a concert at the Royal Albert Hall accompanied by a ballerina who danced during a 12-minute performance of \"Golden Apples\". On 14 January, New Musical Express reported he was to write incidental music for a National Theatre production of \"As You Like It\", but this did not come to fruition. His version of \"Under the Greenwood Tree\" did appear on \"A Gift from a Flower to a Garden\".\n\nLater that month Epic released the \"Mellow Yellow\" LP (not released in the UK), which reached No. 14 in the US album charts, plus a non-album single, \"Epistle to Dippy\", a Top 20 hit in the US. Written as an open letter to a school friend, the song had a pacifist message as well as psychedelic imagery. The real \"Dippy\" was in the British Army in Malaysia. According to Brian Hogg, who wrote the liner notes for the Donovan boxed set \"\", Dippy heard the song, contacted Donovan and left the army. On 9 February 1967, Donovan was among guests invited by the Beatles to Abbey Road Studios for the orchestral overdub for \"A Day in the Life\", the finale to \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\".\n\nIn mid-1966, Donovan became the first British pop star to be arrested for possession of cannabis. Donovan's drug use was mostly restricted to cannabis, with occasional use of LSD and mescaline. His LSD use is referenced indirectly in many of his lyrics (e.g., \"The Trip,\" \"Sunshine Superman,\" \"Wear Your Love Like Heaven,\" and \"Epistle To Dippy\").\n\nPublic attention was drawn to his marijuana use by the TV documentary \"A Boy Called Donovan\" in early 1966, which showed the singer and friends smoking cannabis at a party thrown by the film crew. Donovan's arrest proved to be the first in a long series involving the Beatles and the Rolling Stones. In early 1967, Donovan was subject of an exposé in the \"News of the World\".\n\nAccording to Donovan, the article was based on an interview by an ex-girlfriend of his friend Gypsy Dave. The article was the first in a three-part series, \"Drugs & Pop Stars – Facts That Will Shock You.\" It was quickly shown some claims were false. A \"News of the World\" reporter claimed to have spent an evening with Mick Jagger, who allegedly discussed his drug use and offered drugs to companions. He had mistaken Brian Jones for Jagger, and Jagger sued the newspaper for libel. Among other supposed revelations were claims that Donovan and stars including members of The Who, Cream, Rolling Stones and The Moody Blues regularly smoked marijuana, used other drugs, and held parties where the recently banned hallucinogen LSD was used, specifically naming The Who's Pete Townshend and Cream's Ginger Baker.\n\nIt emerged later that the \"News of the World\" reporters were passing information to the police. In the late 1990s, \"The Guardian\" said \"News of the World\" reporters had alerted police to the party at Keith Richards's home, which was raided on 12 February 1967. Although Donovan's was not as sensational as the later arrests of Jagger and Richards, he was refused entry to the US until late 1967. He could not appear at the Monterey International Pop Festival in June that year.\n\nIn July 1967, Epic released \"There Is a Mountain\", which just missed the US top ten and was later used as the basis for The Allman Brothers Band's \"Mountain Jam\". In September, Donovan toured the US, backed by a jazz group and accompanied by his father, who introduced the show. Later that month, Epic released Donovan's fifth album, a set entitled, \"A Gift from a Flower to a Garden\", the first rock music box set and only the third pop-rock double album released. It was split into halves. The first, \"Wear Your Love Like Heaven\", was for people of his generation who would one day be parents; the second, \"For Little Ones\", was songs Donovan had written for coming generations. Worried it might be a poor seller, Epic boss Clive Davis insisted the albums be split and sold separately in the US (the \"Wear Your Love Like Heaven\" album cover was photographed at Bodiam Castle), but his fears were unfounded – although it took time, the boxed set sold steadily, eventually peaking at 19 in the US album chart and achieving gold record status in the US in early 1970.\n\nThe psychedelic and mystical overtones were unmistakable – the front cover featured an infra-red photograph by Karl Ferris showing Donovan in a robe holding flowers and peacock feathers, while the back photo showed him holding hands with Indian guru Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The liner notes included an appeal for young people to give up drugs. His disavowal of drugs came after his time with the Maharishi in Rishikesh, a topic discussed in a two-part interview for the first two issues of \"Rolling Stone\".\n\nIn late 1967 Donovan contributed two songs to the Ken Loach film \"Poor Cow\". \"Be Not Too Hard\" was a musical setting of Christopher Logue's poem \"September Song\", and was later recorded by such artists as Joan Baez and Shusha Guppy. The title track, originally entitled \"Poor Love\", was the B-side of his next single, \"Jennifer Juniper\", which was inspired by Jenny Boyd, sister of George Harrison's wife, Pattie Boyd and was another top 40 hit in the US. Donovan developed interest in eastern mysticism and claims to have interested the Beatles in transcendental meditation.\n\nIn early 1968 he was part of the group that traveled to the ashram of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in Rishikesh. The visit gained worldwide attention thanks to the presence of all four Beatles as well as Beach Boys lead singer Mike Love, as well as actress Mia Farrow and her sister Prudence (who inspired Lennon to write \"Dear Prudence\"). According to a 1968 Paul McCartney interview with Radio Luxembourg, it was during this time that Donovan taught Lennon and McCartney finger-picking guitar styles including the clawhammer, which he had learned from Mac MacLeod. Lennon used this technique on songs including \"Dear Prudence\", \"Julia\", \"Happiness is a Warm Gun\" and \"Look at Me\", and McCartney with \"Blackbird\" and \"Mother Nature's Son\".\nDonovan's next single, in May 1968, was the psychedelic \"Hurdy Gurdy Man\". The liner notes from EMI's reissues say the song was intended for Mac MacLeod, who had a heavy rock band called Hurdy Gurdy. After hearing MacLeod's version, Donovan considered giving it to Jimi Hendrix, but when Most heard it, he convinced Donovan to record it himself. Donovan tried to get Hendrix to play, but he was on tour. Jimmy Page played electric guitar in some studio sessions and is credited with playing on the song. Alternatively, it is credited to Alan Parker.\n\nDonovan credits Page and \"Allen Hollsworth\" (a misspelling of Allan Holdsworth) as the \"guitar wizards\" for the song, saying they created \"a new kind of metal folk\".\n\nSince John Bonham and John Paul Jones also played, Donovan said perhaps the session inspired the formation of Led Zeppelin. The heavier sound of \"Hurdy Gurdy Man\" was an attempt by Most and Donovan to reach a wider audience in the US, where hard-rock groups like Cream and The Jimi Hendrix Experience were having an impact. The song became one of Donovan's biggest hits, making the Top 5 in the UK and the US, and the Top 10 in Australia.\n\nIn July 1968, Epic released \"Donovan in Concert\", the recording of his Anaheim concert in September 1967. The cover featured only a painting by Fleur Cowles (with neither the artist's name nor the title). The album contained two of his big hits and songs which would have been new to the audience. The expanded double CD from 2006 contained \"Epistle To Derroll\", a tribute to one of his formative influences, Derroll Adams. The album also includes extended group arrangements of \"Young Girl Blues\" and \"The Pebble and the Man\", a song later reworked and retitled as \"Happiness Runs\". In the summer of 1968, Donovan worked on a second LP of children's songs, released in 1971 as the double album, \"HMS Donovan\". In September, Epic released a single, \"Laléna\", a subdued acoustic ballad which reached the low 30s in the US. The album \"The Hurdy Gurdy Man\" followed (not released in the UK), continuing the style of the \"Mellow Yellow\" LP and reached 20 in the US, despite containing two earlier hits, the title track and \"Jennifer Juniper\".\n\nAfter another US tour in the autumn he collaborated with Paul McCartney, who was producing \"Postcard\", the debut LP by Welsh singer Mary Hopkin. Hopkin covered three Donovan songs: \"Lord Of The Reedy River\", \"Happiness Runs\" and \"Voyage of the Moon\". McCartney returned the favour by playing tambourine and singing backing vocals on Donovan's next single, \"Atlantis\", which was released in the UK (with \"I Love My Shirt\" as the B-side) in late November and reached 23.\n\nEarly in 1969, the comedy film \"If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\" featured music by Donovan; the title tune was written by him and sung by J. P. Rags, and he also performed \"Lord of the Reedy River\" in the film as a singer at a youth hostel. On 20 January, Epic released the single, \"To Susan on the West Coast Waiting\", with \"Atlantis\" as the B-side. The A-side, a gentle calypso-styled song, contained another anti-war message, and became a moderate Top 40 US hit. However, when DJs in America and Australia flipped it and began playing \"Atlantis\", that became a hit. The gentle \"Atlantis\" formed the backdrop to a violent scene in Martin Scorsese's \"GoodFellas\". \"Atlantis\" was revived in 2000 for an episode of \"Futurama\" titled \"The Deep South\" (2ACV12) which aired on 16 April that year. For this episode Donovan recorded a satirical version of the song describing the Lost City of Atlanta which featured in the episode.\n\nIn March 1969 (too soon to include \"Atlantis\"), Epic and Pye released \"Donovan's Greatest Hits\", which included four previous singles – \"Epistle To Dippy\", \"There is a Mountain\", \"Jennifer Juniper\" and \"Laléna\", as well as rerecorded versions of \"Colours\" and \"Catch The Wind\" (which had been unavailable to Epic because of Donovan's contractual problems) and stereo versions of \"Sunshine Superman\" (previously unissued full length version) and \"Season of the Witch\". It became the most successful album of his career; it reached 4 in the US, became a million-selling gold record, and stayed on the Billboard album chart for more than a year. On 26 June 1969 the track \"Barabajagal (Love Is Hot)\" (recorded May 1969), which gained him a following on the rave scene decades later, was released, reaching 12 in the UK but charting less strongly in the US. This time he was backed by the original Jeff Beck Group, featuring Beck on lead guitar, Ronnie Wood on bass, Nicky Hopkins on piano, and Micky Waller on drums. The Beck group was under contract to Most and it was Most's idea to team them with Donovan to bring a heavier sound to Donovan's work, while introducing a lyrical edge to Beck's.\n\nOn 7 July 1969, Donovan performed at the first show in the second season of free rock concerts in Hyde Park, London, which also featured Blind Faith, Richie Havens, The Edgar Broughton Band and the Third Ear Band. In September 1969, the \"Barabajagal\" album reached 23 in the US. Only the recent \"Barabajagal\"/\"Trudi\" single and \"Superlungs My Supergirl\" were 1969 recordings, the remaining tracks were from sessions in London in May 1968 and in Los Angeles in November 1968. \n\nIn late 1969, the relationship with Most ended after an argument over an unidentified recording session in Los Angeles. In the 1995 BBC Radio 2 \"The Donovan Story\", Most recounted:\n\nDonovan said he wanted to record with someone else, and he and Most did not work together again until \"Cosmic Wheels\"(1973). After the rift, Donovan spent two months writing and recording the album \"Open Road\" as a member of the rock trio Open Road. Stripping the sound of Most's heavy studio productions down to stuff that could be played by a live band, Donovan dubbed the sound, \"Celtic Rock\". The album peaked at No. 16 in the US, the third highest of any of his full-length releases to date, but as his concert appearances became less frequent and new artists and styles of popular music began to emerge, his commercial success would begin to decline. Donovan said:\n\nI was exhausted and looking for roots and new directions. I checked into Morgan Studios in London and stayed a long while creating Open Road and the \"HMS Donovan\" sessions. Downstairs was McCartney, doing his solo album. I had left Mickie after great years together. The new decade dawned and I had accomplished everything any young singer songwriter could achieve. What else was there to do but to experiment beyond the fame and into the new life, regardless of the result?\n\nDonovan's plan for Open Road was to tour the world for a year, beginning with a boat voyage around the Aegean Sea, documented in the 1970 film, \"There is an Ocean\". This was partially on the advice from his management to go into tax exile, during which he was not to set foot in the UK until April 1971, but after touring to France, Italy, Russia, and Japan, he cut the tour short:\n\nI travelled to Japan and was set to stay out of the UK for a year and earn the largest fees yet for a solo performer, and all tax-free. At the time the UK tax for us was 98%. During that Japanese tour I had a gentle breakdown, which made me decide to break the tax exile. Millions were at stake. My father, my agent they pleaded for me not to step onto the BOAC jet bound for London. I did and went back to my little cottage in the woods. Two days later a young woman came seeking a cottage to rent. It was Linda.\n\nAfter this reunion, Donovan and Linda married on 2 October 1970 at Windsor register office and honeymooned in the Caribbean. Donovan dropped out of the round of tour promotion and concentrated on writing, recording and his family. The largely self-produced children's album \"HMS Donovan\" in 1971, went unreleased in the US and did not gain a wide audience. During an 18-month tax exile in Ireland (1971–72), he wrote for the 1972 film \"The Pied Piper\" in the title role, and for \"Brother Sun, Sister Moon\" (1972). The title song from the Zeffirelli film provided Donovan with a publishing windfall in 1974 when it was covered as the B-side of the million-selling US top 5 hit \"The Lord's Prayer\", by Australia's singing nun, Sister Janet Mead.\n\nAfter a new deal with Epic, Donovan reunited with Mickie Most in early 1973, resulting in the LP \"Cosmic Wheels\", which featured arrangements by Chris Spedding. It was his last chart success, reaching the top 40 in America and Britain. Late in the year he released \"Essence To Essence\", produced by Andrew Loog Oldham, and a live album recorded in Japan and only released in Japan, which featured an extended version of \"Hurdy Gurdy Man\" which included an additional verse written by George Harrison in Rishikesh. While recording the album, Alice Cooper invited Donovan to share lead vocals on his song \"Billion Dollar Babies\".\n\n\"Cosmic Wheels\" was followed up by two albums that same year: his second concert album, \"\", and the more introspective \"Essence to Essence\". His last two albums for Epic Records were \"7-Tease\" (1974) and \"Slow Down World\" (1976). In 1977, he opened for Yes on their six-month tour of North America and Europe following the release of \"Going for the One\" (1977). The 1978 LP, \"Donovan\" was on Most's RAK Records in the UK and on Clive Davis' new Arista Records in the US; it reunited him for the last time with Most and Cameron, but was not well received at the height of the new wave and did not chart.\n\nThe punk era (1976–1980) provoked a backlash in Britain against the optimism and whimsy of the hippie era, of which Donovan was a prime example. The word \"hippie\" became pejorative, and Donovan's fortunes suffered. In this period he released the albums \"Neutronica\" (1980), \"Love Is Only Feeling\" (1981), and \"Lady of the Stars\" (1984), and guest-starred on \"Stars on Ice\", a half-hour variety show on ice produced by CTV in Toronto. There was a respite when he appeared alongside Sting, Phil Collins, Bob Geldof, Eric Clapton and Jeff Beck in the Amnesty International benefit show \"The Secret Policeman's Other Ball\". Accompanied by Danny Thompson, Donovan performed several hits including \"Sunshine Superman\", \"Mellow Yellow\", \"Colours\", \"Universal Soldier\" and \"Catch the Wind\". He was also in the performance of Dylan's \"I Shall Be Released\" for the show's finale. Donovan also appeared at the Glastonbury Festival on 18 June 1989 with the band Ozric Tentacles accompanying him onstage.\n\nIn 1990 Donovan released a live album featuring new performances of his classic songs. A tribute album to Donovan, \"Island of Circles\", was released by Nettwerk in 1991. Sony's 2-CD boxed set \"\" (1992) continued the restoration of his reputation, and was followed by the 1994 release of \"Four Donovan Originals\", which saw his four classic Epic LPs on CD in their original form for the first time in the UK. He found an ally in rap producer and Def Jam label owner Rick Rubin and recorded an album called \"Sutras\" for Rubin's American Recordings label.\n\nIn 2000, Donovan narrated and played himself in the \"Futurama\" episode \"The Deep South\" on 16 April with the song \"Atlantis\".\n\nA new album, \"Beat Cafe\", on Appleseed Records in 2004, marked a return to the jazzy sound of his 1960s recordings and featured bassist Danny Thompson and drummer Jim Keltner, with production by John Chelew (Blind Boys of Alabama). At a series of \"Beat Cafe\" performances in New York, Richard Barone (The Bongos) joined Donovan to sing and read passages from Allen Ginsberg's \"Howl\".\n\nIn May 2004, Donovan played \"Sunshine Superman\" at the wedding concert for the Crown Prince and Crown Princess of Denmark. He released his early demo tapes, \"Sixty Four\", and a re-recording of the \"Brother Sun, Sister Moon\" soundtrack on iTunes. A set of his Mickie Most albums was released on 9 May 2005. This EMI set has extra tracks including another song recorded with the Jeff Beck Group. In 2005, his autobiography \"The Hurdy Gurdy Man\" was published. In May/June 2005, Donovan toured the UK (Beat Cafe Tour) and Europe with Tom Mansi on double bass, former Damned drummer Rat Scabies and Flipron keyboard player, Joe Atkinson.\n\nIn spring/summer 2006, Donovan played British festivals and two dates at Camden's The Jazz Café, London.\n\nIn January 2007, Donovan played at the Kennedy Center, in Washington, DC, at Alice Tully Hall, in New York City, and at the Kodak Theatre, in Los Angeles, in conjunction with a presentation by film maker David Lynch supporting the David Lynch Foundation for Consciousness-Based Education and world peace. The concert at the Kodak Theatre was filmed by Raven Productions and broadcast on Public television as a pledge drive. Donovan's partnership with the David Lynch Foundation saw him performing concerts through October 2007, as well as giving presentations about Transcendental meditation. He appeared at Maharishi University of Management in Fairfield, Iowa, in May 2007, and toured the UK with David Lynch in October 2007.\n\nIn March 2007, Donovan played two shows at the South by Southwest music festival in Austin, Texas. He had planned a spring 2007 release of an album, along with a UK tour. However, he announced the tour was cancelled and the album delayed. He said was in good health but gave no reason for the cancellation. \n\nIn April 2007, Donovan presented a three-part series on Ravi Shankar for BBC Radio 2. In October 2007 Donovan announced plans for the \"Invincible Donovan University\" focusing on Transcendental Meditation. It will be near Glasgow or Edinburgh. In October 2007 the DVD, \"The Donovan Concert—Live in LA\", filmed at the Kodak Theatre Los Angeles earlier in the year, was released in the UK. On 6 October 2009, Donovan was honoured as a BMI Icon at the 2009 annual BMI London Awards. The Icon designation is given to BMI songwriters who have had \"a unique and indelible influence on generations of music makers\".\n\nIn October 2010, Donovan's double CD set \"Ritual Groove\" was made available through his website. Prior to the release, he had described it as a multi-media album waiting for videos to be applied.\n\nDonovan had a relationship with American model Enid Karl, and they had two children – actor-musician Donovan Leitch in 1967, and actress Ione Skye in 1970.\n\nDonovan married Linda Lawrence in October 1970. They have two children together, Astrella and Oriole. Linda Lawrence was the inspiration for \"Sunshine Superman\".\n\nHe is also the stepfather of Brian Jones' and Linda Lawrence's son, Julian Brian (Jones) Leitch. Jones' biographer Paul Trynka writes, \"Unsurprisingly, Julian has found the burden of being Brian's son heavy to bear, despite being brought up with obvious love and sensitivity by his adopted father Donovan Leitch.\"\n\nIn November 2003, Donovan was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Letters from the University of Hertfordshire. He was nominated by Sara Loveridge (who was a student at the University and had interviewed and reviewed Donovan for the university paper in 2001–2002), Andrew Morris, Sara's partner and Donovan researcher/writer and co-nominated by Mac MacLeod.\n\nOn 14 April 2012 Donovan was inducted in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4242305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4242305", "title": "Dushanbe Synagogue", "text": "Dushanbe Synagogue\n\nThe Dushanbe Synagogue, also known as the Bukharian Synagogue, located in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan, was constructed in the 19th century in one of the two Jewish Quarters in Dushanbe at the time. It was part of the Jewish community compound, which also included ritual buildings and a school. In February 2006, the Government of Tajikistan began demolition of the Jewish community compound as part of an urban redevelopment plan designed to make way for a new presidential residence, the Palace of Nations, with adjoining landscaped areas. The demolition of the synagogue was delayed due to international protests and a series of court actions until the end of June 2008, when the old building was finally razed.\n\nBuilt by the Bukharian Jew community more than a hundred years ago, in the late 19th century, the synagogue was seized by the Soviets in 1920 and nationalized in 1952. The Jewish community was again allowed access to the building in 1958, although the land remained in government hands (as all land was and still is state-owned in Tajikistan). The synagogue functioned after Tajikistan's independence in 1991 and throughout its civil war from 1992 to 1997. It was vandalized in 1995 in an incident which also included the ransacking of Jewish homes.\n\nIn May 2003, the Jewish community received an official letter ordering them to vacate the buildings, including the synagogue, by July of that year. Demolition, originally scheduled for 2004, began in early February 2006 with the destruction of the community's \"mikvah\", or ritual bath, kosher butcher, and classrooms. Demolition of the synagogue was delayed until June 2008 due to international protests and a series of court actions. The synagogue was finally demolished on 22 June 2008.\n\nThe government ordered the demolition of the entire Jewish community compound, including the synagogue, in accordance with city center regeneration plans, specifically the construction of the Palace of Nations surrounded by extensive landscaped grounds. At the time demolition began, the synagogue was a functioning house of worship serving Dushanbe's small Jewish community (150 to 350 Jews). This was the last remaining synagogue in Tajikistan. While the government argued that the building was of no historical significance and could be demolished in accordance with city planning needs, the Jewish community stated that, as the last remaining Jewish house of prayer in a country that had been a home to Jews for at least two thousand years, the building was of considerable historical significance. The ownership of the building was also disputed. The Jewish community reported that it had documentation of its original (pre-Soviet) ownership of the building and the purchase of the land on which the synagogue had been constructed. The Dushanbe municipal authorities argued, on the other hand, that the state owned the land and the building since it underwent nationalisation in 1952 by the Soviet authorities.\nBack in 2004, the Chief Rabbi of Central Asia, Rabbi Abraham Dovid Gurevich, raised the issue of antisemitism, hinting that the prospect of a synagogue standing next to the Palace of Nations would cause embarrassment to the authorities, but the US State Department framed the issue as \"bureaucratic, rather than ideological\". UNESCO wrote a letter to the government of Tajikistan in 2004 that destruction of the synagogue would be in \"contradiction with international standards for the protection of cultural heritage\". The BBC reported in 2006 that \"those opposed to the demolition had been threatened by officials and most of the congregation are afraid to speak out\".\n\nIn March 2006 it appeared for a short time that the Government of Tajikistan had reversed their decision and would allow the Jewish community to keep the synagogue on the current site. In May 2006, however, it was announced that the synagogue would be rebuilt on \"a suitable new site at the center of the city\". Still, the Dushanbe Jewish community, spurred by international public opinion, continued its attempts to save the old synagogue on the original site, but in June 2008, the Dushanbe municipal courts finally ruled that the demolition of the old synagogue would proceed as ordered.\n\nAlthough the government refuses to compensate the Jewish community for the loss of the building, it has allocated a plot of 1,500 square meters for the construction of a new synagogue on the banks of the Dushanbinka River in the Firdavsi municipal district in the west of the city. At the end of June 2008, immediately after the destruction of the old synagogue, Lev Leviev, the President of the Federation of Jewish Communities of the CIS (FJC), confirmed during a visit to Dushanbe that the construction of a synagogue on the new site would begin soon, financed by FJC, the Bukharian Jewish Congress, and private donors.\n\nThe New Dushanbe Synagogue was opened on 4 May 2009 in an existing building donated for this purpose by Hasan Assadullozoda, a Tajikistani businessman and the brother-in-law of President Emomalii Rakhmon. The opening ceremony was attended by U.S. Ambassador Tracey Ann Jacobson, Tajik Deputy Culture Minister Mavlon Mukhtorov, and Imam Habibullo Azamkhonov.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28132939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28132939", "title": "Ernest Thiel", "text": "Ernest Thiel\n\nErnest Jacques Thiel (Norrköping 18 August 1859 – Stockholm 6 January 1947) was a Swedish financier and art collector whose former villa in the Stockholm park area Djurgården today houses the \"Thielska galleriet\" (the Thiel Gallery). Thiel also translated works by Nietzsche into Swedish.\n\nErnest Thiel's parents were the Belgian Catholic engineer Jacques Thiel and Fanny Stiebel, of German-Jewish origin. After school in Stockholm, Thiel was sent to Germany to learn trade in a Hamburg merchant house, and later worked in a bank there. He returned to Stockholm in 1877 and found work in Stockholms Enskilda Bank, the bank of the Wallenberg family. In 1884 he became the manager of the Stockholm office of Hernösands enskilda bank and in 1891 he had accumulated enough capital to start his own bank, Stockholms Kredit- och Diskontoförening, later known as Aktiebolaget Stockholms diskontobank, which he headed until 1901. In 1884 he had married Anna Josephson, member of a well-known Jewish family and sister-in-law of the publisher Karl Otto Bonnier. He caused a scandal when he divorced her (1896–97) to marry Signe Hansen, a young and beautiful widow with literary and artistic interests who had been his wife's companion.\n\nThiel's art collecting began in earnest in 1901, when he bought art for the then considerable sum of 19,000 crowns at the exhibition of the Konstnärsförbundet artist group. The following year he bought 19 paintings by Bruno Liljefors. The flat at Strandvägen into which he had moved with second wife in 1897 started to be cramped, and in 1904, Thiel commissioned the architect Ferdinand Boberg to build him a large villa at Blockhusudden in the Djurgården park area of Stockholm. It was soon discovered that the art collection had outgrown the building and Boberg had to add another large room in 1905. Prince Eugen, the painter and collector, had recently had Boberg design a combined residence and art gallery at Waldemarsudde in another part of Djurgården, which may have influenced Thiel. The Prince originally counteracted Thiel's plans and forced him to move his new house to a spot farther away from Waldemarsudde than he had first wanted, but when, in 1906, Eugen gave Thiel a painting of his, \"Nattmolnet\" (The Night Cloud) it was a sign that he had accepted his position in the art life of Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "1171055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1171055", "title": "Frank Pastore", "text": "Frank Pastore\n\nFrank Pastore (; August 21, 1957 – December 17, 2012) was an American Major League Baseball player and radio host. He pitched for the Cincinnati Reds from 1979 until 1985 and for the Minnesota Twins in 1986, and was in the Texas Rangers organization in 1987.\n\nPastore was born in Alhambra, California, and was valedictorian of the 1975 class of Damien High School in La Verne, California. That year, Pastore went to the Cincinnati Reds in the second round of the amateur draft. Pastore continued to be promoted within the organization, with an impressive 3.28 ERA in the minor leagues. He made his major league debut on April 4, 1979, at Riverfront Stadium, pitching three scoreless innings in a loss to the San Francisco Giants. Used equally as a reliever and starter during his rookie season, he then moved full-time to the starting rotation in 1980.\n\nPastore's best statistical season came in 1980 with the Reds, as he posted a record of 13 - 7 with an ERA of 3.27 in 27 appearances. Pastore was hit on the elbow with a batted ball on June 4, 1984. That injury caused him to appear in only 41 games in the 1984 and 1985 seasons combined. He was then released by the Reds in 1986 following spring training. However, Pastore quickly signed with the Minnesota Twins, and spent the entire season coming out of the bullpen. Following the season, he signed with the Texas Rangers and was assigned to the AAA Oklahoma City 89ers. However, Pastore started four disappointing games with the team (compiling a 1-3 record and 8.46 ERA) before retiring.\n\nAfter baseball, Pastore (a former atheist) went back to school, graduating with a degree in business administration from National University in 1989. He then spent the next two years with the national leadership of Athletes in Action, the sports ministry of Campus Crusade for Christ. He then attended the Talbot School of Theology at Biola University, graduating \"summa cum laude\" with an MA in philosophy of religion and ethics in 1994. In 2003, Pastore completed his second master's degree, in political philosophy and American government, from Claremont Graduate School.\n\nOn January 5, 2004, Pastore became the host of \"The Frank Pastore Show\" on KKLA-FM in Los Angeles, which became one of the largest Christian talk shows in the United States.\n\nIn 2011, Pastore authored \"Shattered: Struck Down, But Not Destroyed\", a book recounting how he became a born-again Christian during recovery from his 1984 pitching arm injury.\n\nPastore once held the record for the fastest time to finish eating the famous 72-oz steak dinner, \"The Texas King\", at the Big Texan Steak Ranch. Pastore's record of 9 minutes 30 seconds stood for 21 years, until being broken by Joey Chestnut in 2008.\n\nOn November 19, 2012, Pastore was critically injured on the Foothill (210) Freeway in Duarte, California, when a woman from Glendora, California, driving a Hyundai Sonata, collided with his Honda VTX 1800, throwing him off the motorcycle. He was hospitalized in critical condition with serious head injuries. Hours before the accident, Pastore commented:\n\n...you guys know I ride a motorcycle, don’t you? So, at any moment, especially with the idiot people who cross the diamond lane into my lane, all right, without any blinkers -- not that I’m angry about it, but at any minute I could be spread out all over the 210 (Freeway). \nLess than a month later, on December 17, 2012, Pastore died from pneumonia and other complications of his injuries. Pastore is survived by his wife, Gina, children Frank Jr. and Christina, and one grandchild.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813169", "title": "God (male deity)", "text": "God (male deity)\n\nA god is a male deity, in contrast with a goddess, a female deity. While the term \"goddess\" specifically refers to a female deity, the plural \"gods\" can be applied to deities collectively, regardless of gender. The Greek and Roman pantheons were ruled by Zeus and Jupiter.\n\nWhen ancient Egyptian religion developed closer to monotheism, it was Amun, a male god, who rose to the most prominent place.\n\nWar gods, like the rulers of the pantheon, could often be male, such as Ares/Mars and Toutatis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1947481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947481", "title": "Hinduism in Myanmar", "text": "Hinduism in Myanmar\n\nHinduism is practised by about 252,763 people in Myanmar, and has been influenced by elements of Buddhism, with many Hindu temples in Myanmar housing statues of the Buddha.\n\nThe Burmese census data only reports individuals who stated Hinduism. Pew Research estimated a range of 820,000 to 840,000 Hindus in 2010.\n\nPopulation of Hindus by State/Region, according to the 2014 census\n\nPredominantly, Burmese Indians make up Myanmar's population of Hindus. The practice of Hinduism among Burmese Indians is also influenced by Buddhism. In addition to Hindu deities, the Buddha is also worshiped and many Hindu temples in Myanmar house statues of the Buddha. The Burmese Indians include Myanmar Tamils, Bengalis, Odias, Malayalis, etc.\n\nThe majority of the Meitei (or Manipuri) in Myanmar practice Hinduism. They are descendants of forced labourers taken from Manipur during the Manipuri–Burmese war from 1819 to 1825. Manipuris are concentrated in about 13 villages in the Mandalay, Sagaing and Amarapura areas. Manipuri settlements are also found along the Ningthi river, and the areas sandwiched between the river and the boundary of Manipur.\n\nMany Nepali-speaking Burmese Gurkha in Myanmar practice Hinduism.\n\nA small minority of predominantly-Muslim Rohingya people also practice Hinduism.\n\nHinduism, along with Buddhism, arrived in Burma during ancient times. Both names of the country are rooted in Hinduism; Burma is the British colonial officials' phonetic equivalent for the first half of \"Brahma Desha\", the ancient name of the region. Brahma is part of Hindu trinity, a deity with four heads. The name \"Myanmar\" is the regional language transliteration of \"Brahma\", where \"b\" and \"m\" are interchangeable.\n\nArakan (Rakhine) Yoma is a significant natural mountainous barrier between Burma and India, and the migration of Hinduism and Buddhism into Burma occurred slowly through Manipur and by South Asian seaborne traders. Hinduism greatly influenced the royal court of Burmese kings in pre-colonial times, as seen in the architecture of cities such as Bagan. Likewise, the Burmese language adopted many words from Sanskrit and Pali, many of which relate to religion. \n\nWhile ancient and medieval arrival of ideas and culture fusion transformed Burma over time, it is in 19th and 20th century that over a million Hindu workers were brought in by British colonial government to serve in plantations and mines. The British also felt that surrounding the European residential centre with Indian immigrants provided a buffer and a degree of security from tribal theft and raids. According to 1931 census, 55% of Rangoon's (Yangon) population were Indian migrants, mostly Hindus. \n\nAfter independence from Britain, Burma Socialist Programme Party under Ne Win adopted xenophobic policies and expelled 300,000 Indian ethnic people (Hindus), along with 100,000 Chinese, from Burma between 1963 and 1967. The Indian policy of encouraging democratic protests in Burma increased persecution of Hindus, as well as led to Burmese retaliatory support of left-leaning rebel groups in northeastern states of India.\n\nAspects of Hinduism continue in Burma today, even in the majority Buddhist culture. For example, Thagyamin is worshipped whose origins are in the Hindu god Indra. Burmese literature has also been enriched by Hinduism, including the Burmese adaptation of the Ramayana, called Yama Zatdaw. Many Hindu gods are likewise worshipped by many Burmese people, such as Saraswati (known as Thuyathadi in Burmese), the goddess of knowledge, who is often worshipped before examinations; Shiva is called \"Paramizwa\"; Vishnu is called \"Withano\", and others. Many of these ideas are part of thirty seven Nat or deities found in Burmese culture.\n\nIn modern Myanmar, most Hindus are found in the urban centres of Yangon and Mandalay. Ancient Hindu temples are present in other parts of Burma, such as the 11th century Nathlaung Kyaung Temple dedicated to Vishnu in Bagan.\n\nDeepavali is a public holiday in Myanmar.\nAfter independence from Britain, Burma Socialist Programme Party under Ne Win adopted xenophobic policies and expelled 300,000 Indian ethnic people (Hindus), along with 100,000 Chinese, from Burma between 1963 and 1967. \nOn 25 August 2017, the villages in a cluster known as Kha Maung Seik in northern Maungdaw District of Rakhine State in Myanmar were attacked by Rohingya muslims of Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA).This was called Kha Maung Seik massacre. Amnesty International said that about 99 Hindus were killed in that day.\nDue to these, many Rohingya Hindus have started identifying themselves as Chittagonian Hindus rather than Rohingyas.. In Myanmar and in Bangladeshi refugee camps—according to some media accounts—Hindu Rohingyas (particularly women) faced kidnapping, religious abuse and \"forced conversions\" at the hands of Muslim Rohingyas.\n\n"}
{"id": "37664177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37664177", "title": "Imamate in Nizari doctrine", "text": "Imamate in Nizari doctrine\n\nThe Imamate in Nizārī Ismā'īlī doctrine () is a concept in Nizari Isma'ilism which defines the political, religious and spiritual dimensions of authority concerning Islamic leadership over the nation of believers. The primary function of the Imamate is to establish an institution between an Imam who is present and living in the world and his following whereby each are granted rights and responsibilities.\n\nThe Nizari Imamate follows a genealogy of male Imams originating from prophet hood of Muhammad by means of wedlock of his daughter Fatimah with his cousin Ali and in succession, through their son Hussein and his onward descendants up to the present day. Each ordained as successor Imam of this lineage is charged with serving the Nizari Ismailis community of his era; who are liable to pay the zakat (tithe) dues to him due to his being as ex-officio and the designated Nizari Imam. The Imam in return, imparts them the religious and spiritual guidance and also strives for their physical well-being to the best of his ability.\n\nWith respect to their spiritual nature, the Imams are considered living manifestations of the divine word as well as intermediaries (wasilah in Qur'an 5:35) between God and the Ummah. Based on this belief, the Nizari Ismaili concept of Imamate differs from that of the Twelver's concept in that the Nizari Imams possess the authority to interpret the Quran according to the times and change or even abrogate any aspect of \"The Way/The Path\" (Sharia) of Islam.\n\nThe 49th and presently living Nizari Imam is Prince Shah Karim Al Hussaini Aga Khan (IV).\nIsmaili Muslims consider love and devotion for the living imam, his deputies and missionaries an integral part of the religion and classify it within the Seven Pillars of faith. The Imam's Teaching Hierarchy (hudud al-din), historically called \"da'wa\" in Arabic, is considered a sacred tenet because without his loyal Da'is the living imam would essentially be disconnected from his following.\n\nThe Ismailis record several periods in which generations of Imams lived a clandestine lifestyle resulting from political rivalry, religious persecution, and often both. When the Imam of the Time's guidance cannot be delivered publicly his responsibilities are kept up through a staff of devotees acting intermediaries between the Imam and his followers. Ismaili literature traditionally refers to these periods of time as eras of concealment, or \"dawr al-satr\" in Arabic.\n\nThe Imamat is an institution of welfare that is established through a convent between an imam and his followers, whereby each assume rights and responsibilities. In the words of the present living imam, Shah Karim al-Husayni Aga Khan IV, \"the role of the Imam is to listen, not to talk; there's a big difference, in the sense that members of the community must inform me ... what is of concern to them.\" However serving and humble the Imam of the Time may be, in the eyes of his devotees he is spiritually revered as the asylum of the universe and a blessing worthy of protection and sacrifice.\n\nThe source of authority of the Imamat is interpreted by Ismaili Muslims as being explicitly stated within the Quran and they also believe the Quran alone provides its framework. In a sermon delivered during the reign of Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah the rights and responsibilities between the Imam and his following are explained:\n\nExamples of recent developments initiated by the Imamat include the foundation of several welfare and higher learning institutions; they exist within the framework of the Aga Khan Development Network, the Aga Khan University, and the Institute of Ismaili Studies.\n\nEvery Nizari Imam is considered to be a \"testament to God's spiritual presence among his people\". When a descendant of the holy family is nominated as the \"Imam\" they become one essence with the divine and a living manifestation of the Quran. Each such designated (by nass) Imam receives the Nur (Light) of God as per the Quranic Ayat which asserts thus:\n\nThis Noor of God exists simultaneously in the present moment in the Almighty God's transcendental form as well as in the Nizari Imam's human form. Thus, when describing the essence of an Imam, the spiritual Nizari instructor of Rumi, the great Shams Tabrizi, wrote:\n\nIn a sermon delivered during the reign of Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah the measure of obedience to the Imam is explained:\n\nDuring the Fatimid rule of Egypt the affairs of state governance were a prominent occupation for the Ismaili Imams as the Fatimid Caliphs of Egypt. Aside from the governance of the Fatimid Empire there were also religious and spiritual affairs pertaining to the Fatimid Ismailis of the time who accepted the Fatimid Caliphs also as their spiritual Imams.\n\nAn institution of Ismaili Dawa (propagation of the Ismaili faith) was created by the Fatimid Imams and authority was delegated to Dais (spiritual teachers) for specific territories under the Fatimid Empire and even for territories beyond its borders to propagate Ismailism.\n\nAt \"al-Ghadir Khumm\", by \"God's direct and emphatic command\", Prophet Mohammad designated his cousin and son-in-law Ali—husband of his daughter Fatima-tz-Zahra—as his successor to his \"spiritual\" office as the first Imam in the continuing line of hereditary Imams and as his successor to his \"temporal\" office as the first Caliph of the entire Muslim ummah (community). Ali was then accepted as the successor to Prophet Mohammad's leadership at al-Ghadir Khumm by about 100,000 pilgrims on their return journey after participating in the Prophet's Farewell Pilgrimage, his last one before his death that same year.\n\nAt al-Ghadir Khumm the most prominent and closest \"Companions of the Prophet\" (the Asaba) \"gave their allegiance (bayah) personally to Ali under the Prophet's supervision.\" Among the Prophet's Companions were the first three Caliphs (the Rashidun Caliphs—i.e., the \"Righteous Caliphs\") Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman who took Ali's hand in their own hands and publicly spoke their unstinted allegiance to serve him as their Imam and Caliph in the very same manner that all Muslims used to give their allegiance to Prophet Mohammad.\n\nNumerous reliable hadith sources—both Shia and Sunni—record the event at Ghadir Khumm. They agree that Prophet Mohammad on his return journey from the final pilgrimage stopped at an oasis between Mecca and Medina known as Ghadir Khumm and addressed the large gathering of Muslims assembled there at his explicit command even though it was excruciatingly hot that day in order to hear God's special message to them (the people) according to God's message the Prophet himself had received at Ghadir Khumm directly from God via the Quranic Ayat 5:67 thus:\n\n\"O Apostle: Deliver (to the people) what has been revealed to you from your Lord. And if you do not do so then you will not have delivered His Message (of Islam). And God will protect you from the people.\" —Quran 5:67.\n\nThe Prophet then asked the gathered Muslims whether he (the Prophet) had a greater claim upon them than they had even upon themselves. The Muslims responded that Prophet Mohammad had a greater claim upon them than they had even upon themselves. The Prophet then went on to say, \n\"God is my Master and I am the master of all the believers. He whose master I am, Ali is his master. He whose master I am, Ali is his master. He whose master I am, Ali is his master. (i.e., repeating it three times). O God, help whoever helps Ali, oppose whoever opposes Ali, support whoever supports Ali, forsake whoever forsakes Ali, and may the truth follow Ali wheresoever he turns. Ali, the son of Abu Talib, is my brother, my executor (Wasi), and my successor (Caliph), and the leader (Imam) after me.\"\n\nThe Shia Nizari Ismaili tradition bears witness to the continuity of the hereditary authority vested in the \"Imamim Mubeen (the Manifest Imam)\" at Ghadir Khumm by Prophet Mohammad and which has continued over 1,400 years from Ali to the present Imam-of-the-Time, Prince Karim al-Hussaini Aga Khan, the 49th hereditary Imam and direct descendant of Mohammad through Ali and Fatima Zahra.\n\nThe changing interpretations of the Quran by the Nizari Ismaili Imams to adapt to changing times creates tension between the Nizari Ismaili Imams and the Orthodox Ulema (Islamic scholars). The two most recent Nizari Ismaili Imams titled Aga Khan III and Aga Khan IV have replaced the obligation to perform the daily prayers from five times a day to three times a day by following the Quranic injunction rather than following the Prophet's custom (hadith and sunnah), in order to ease the religious pressures on the Muslim in the modern world. For example, they have dispensed with the veil for women and replaced it with dressing according to common decency in the country of one's residence:\n\n\"But purdah, as now known, itself did not exist till long after the Prophet’s death and is no part of Islam. The part played by Muslim women at Kardesiah and Yarmuk the two most momentous battles of Islam next to Badr and Honein, and their splendid nursing of the wounded after those battles, is of itself a proof to any reasonable person that purdah, as now understood, has never been conceived by the companions of the Prophet. That we Muslims should saddle ourselves with this excretion of Persian custom, borrowed by the Abbassides, is due to that ignorance of early Islam which is one of the most extraordinary of modern conditions.\" —Aga Khan III\n\nSpecifically, the Aga Khan IV has emphasized the ethics of pluralism, the cosmopolitan ethic of frontierless brotherhood and sisterhood, the forbearance from killing to settle disputes, governance by constitution and law, and the importance of keeping to the Islamic ethics practiced by the Prophet of Islam.\n\nThe Ismailis and the Twelvers split over the succession to Imam Ja'far al-Sadiq. Ismailis contend that Jafar had designated his son Isma'il ibn Jafar as his heir and the next Imam in the hereditary line and thus the Isma'ilis follow the Imamat of Isma'il and his progeny. Although Imam Ismail predeceased his father, he (i.e., Isma'il ibn Jafar) had in his own right designated his son Muhammad ibn Ismail as the next hereditary Imam who was to follow after him. In direct opposition to this belief, the Twelvers believe that Imam Ismail's younger brother Musa al Kadhim was from the beginning the rightful successor to Imam Jafar and that Ismail himself was never a contender.\n\nThe \"Nizari Ismailis\" have always maintained that the Imamah (also known as 'Imamat') can only be inherited from the current Imam to a direct descendant in a father-to-son (or grandson) \"hereditary lineage\" starting with Imam Ali and then to Imam Hussein and so on until their present Imam, Prince Karim al Husseini. Hassan bin (son of) Ali is regarded as a Trustee Imam (imam al-mustawda) as opposed to a Hereditary Imam (imam al-mustaqarr). This fact is clearly demonstrated in the recitation of the Nizari Ismailis' daily prayers three times a day in which Imam Hasan's name is not included in the hereditary lineage from Imam Ali to their 49th Imam Prince Karim al Hussaini (although Hassan bin Ali is revered as part of the Prophet's personal family, the Ahl al-Bayt). If Hassan bin Ali's name were to be included as one of the Ismaili Imams in their prayer recitation then the present Imam Prince Karim of the Nizari Ismailis would have to be the 50th Imam and not the 49th Imam, the way he has identified himself and is known to the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "9060601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9060601", "title": "International League of non-religious and atheists", "text": "International League of non-religious and atheists\n\nThe International League of Non-religious and Atheists (German: \"Internationaler Bund der Konfessionslosen und Atheisten\", IBKA) is an international association founded in Berlin in 1976 as \"International League of Non-religious\" (IBDK). It originated from the \"MIZ magazine\" and the Bund der Konfessionslosen Berlin (Union of the non-religious in Berlin) founded in 1972, and adopted the name IBKA in 1982. It has approximately 1000 members and 13 coorporative Members, as well as a Scientific Council. It is registered as an eingetragener Verein (e.V.) in Germany.\n\nAmong its objectives, IBKA promotes rationalism and pursues the establishment of human rights and scientific freedom, as well as the separation of Church and State. In 2014, it was amongst several secularist organisations to campaign for the right to euthanasia in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "1277377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1277377", "title": "Islam in Singapore", "text": "Islam in Singapore\n\nAccording to statistics from 2010, about 15% of Singapore's resident population aged 15 years and over are Muslims. A majority of Malays are Sunni Muslims. 17 per cent of Muslims in Singapore are of South Asian origin. Other adherents include those from the Chinese, Arab and Eurasian communities. The majority of Muslims in Singapore are traditionally Sunni Muslims who follow the Shafi'i school of thought or the Hanafi school of thought.\n\nIslamic bureaucracy long formed an integral part of Malay Sultanates - since the advent of Islam in the region. The Malacca Sultanate of the 1500s was recorded to have practiced \"syariah\" (sharia) law, as well as its Johor successor of which Singapore was a part until 1824. When the British started governing Singapore, syariah law was relegated to the realm of personal law.\n\nIn 1915 the British colonial authorities established the Mohammedan Advisory Board. The Board was tasked to advise the colonial authorities on matters connected with the Islamic religion and custom.\n\nSingapura or Singapore became part of Malaysia in 1963, before being expelled in 1965. The constitution of the newly independent Republic of Singapore included two provisions relating to the special position of the Malays and the Muslim religion - Articles 152 and 153.\n\nArticle 152 states:\n(1) It shall be the responsibility of the Government constantly to care for the interests of the racial and religious minorities in Singapore.\n\n(2) The Government shall exercise its functions in such manner as to recognise the special position of the Malays, who are the indigenous people of Singapore, and accordingly it shall be the responsibility of the Government to protect, safeguard, support, foster and promote their political, educational, religious, economic, social and cultural interests and the Malay language.\nBecause of Article 152 Section 2, the Singapore government discourages missionaries from proselytizing the Malay population from Islam to other religions - to avoid racial and religious tensions within Muslim population and because of the Malay Islamic identity, whereby Malay culture has close and strong identification with Islam.\n\nArticle 153 states:\nThe Legislature shall by law make provision for regulating Muslim religious affairs and for constituting a Council to advise the President in matters relating to the Muslim religion.\nIn 1966 the Singaporean Parliament passed the Administration of the Muslim Law Act (AMLA). The Act came into effect in 1968 and defined the powers and jurisdiction of three key Muslim institutions:\n\n\nThese institutions come under the purview of the Ministry of Community Development, Youth and Sports (MCYS) though the minister responsible for these institutions is the Minister-in-charge of Muslim Affairs.\n\nThe Secretary of Muis also attend the meetings of Majlis but does not have the right to vote under section 8(1) of AMLA. The duties and powers of the Secretary is delineated in section 20 of AMLA. It states:\n\nSubject to such directions as may be given to him by the President, the Secretary shall —\n\n(a) have charge of all correspondence and documents of the Majlis, including all books of account thereof and all title deeds and securities;\n\n(b) be generally responsible for the proper collection of, accounting for and disposal of all funds of the Majlis; and\n\n(c) in all other respects carry out such duties as may be imposed upon him by this Act or allotted to him by direction of the President.\n\nApart from the President and Secretary of Muis, another important office is that of the Mufti. Under section 30(3), the \"Mufti shall be ex-officio a member of the Majlis.\"\n\nSection 30(1) authorises the President of Singapore to appoint a fit and proper person to be the Mufti after consultation with the Majlis. In 1967, Mohamed Sanusi Mahmood was appointed as Singapore's first Mufti. He was succeeded by Syed Isa Semait in 1972.\n\nThe President of Singapore also appoints the members of the Legal Committee (also known as the Fatwa Committee). The relevant provision relating to the Legal Committee is section 31 which states:\n\n(1) There shall be a Legal Committee of the Majlis, consisting of —\n\n(a) the Mufti;\n\n(b) 2 other fit and proper members of the Majlis; and\n\n(c) not more than 2 other fit and proper Muslims who are not members of the Majlis.\n\n(2) The members of the Legal Committee, other than the Mufti, shall be appointed by the President of Singapore on the advice of the Majlis for such period as he thinks fit.\n\n(3) A notification of every such appointment shall be published in the Gazette.\n\n(4) The Mufti shall be chairman of the Legal Committee.\n\nUnder section 33, the Legal Committee is authorised to follow the tenets of the Shafi'i school of thought. It states:\n\n(1) Subject to this section, the Majlis and the Legal Committee in issuing any ruling shall ordinarily follow the tenets of the Shafi’i school of law.\n\n(2) If the Majlis or the Legal Committee considers that the following of the tenets of the Shafi\"i school of law will be opposed to the public interest, the Majlis may follow the tenets of any of the other accepted schools of Muslim law as may be considered appropriate, but in any such ruling the provisions and principles to be followed shall be set out in full detail and with all necessary explanations.\n\n(3) In any case where the ruling or opinion of the Majlis or the Legal Committee is requested in relation to the tenets of a particular school of Muslim law, the Majlis or the Legal Committee shall give its ruling or opinion in accordance with the tenets of that particular school of Muslim law.\n\nIn 1880, the British colonial authorities introduced the Mahomedan Marriage Ordinance which officially recognised the status of Muslim personal law in Singapore.\n\nIn 1958, pursuant to the 1957 Muslim Ordinance, a Syariah Court with jurisdiction to hear and determine disputes pertaining to Muslim marriages and divorce cases was established.\n\nThe Court replaced a set of government-licensed but otherwise unsupervised \"qadhi\" (Muslim judges) who had previously decided on questions of divorce and inheritance, following either the traditions of particular ethnic groups or their own interpretations of Muslim law.\n\nToday, the Syariah Court continues to exist as a court of competent jurisdiction with power and jurisdiction to hear and determine disputes defined by AMLA.\n\nThe ROMM registers marriages when the couple are both Muslims. In the case of mixed-religion marriages, the marriage is registered at the Registry of Marriages.\n\nPreviously, the registration of Muslim marriages as well as divorces were conducted under one unit, which is the Syariah Court.\n\nIt was first located in a bungalow at Fort Canning and later moved to Canning Rise in 1983.\n\nAppeals on decisions of the Syariah Court and the ROMM are heard and determined by the Appeal Board.\n\nUnlike Muis, the Syariah Court and ROMM are not statutory boards but constitute a part of MSF (Ministry of Social and Family Development).\n\nAhmadiyya is a small branch of Islam in Singapore. The Community was established during the era of the Second Caliphate, shortly before the Second World War. Ghulam Ahsan Ayyaz was the first missionary to the country, who under the directive of the caliph arrived in 1935, in a period when the territory was part of the Straits Settlements. In the 1970s, the Community had roughly 200 followers, represented by 1-2% of the Muslim population.\n\nApart from these key Muslim institutions, there are also community self-help groups, voluntary welfare organisations and civic groups like the Young Women Muslim Association of Singapore (YWMA), Association of Muslim Professionals, Yayasan Mendaki, Muslim Missionary Society (Jamiyah), PERDAUS, Singapore Islamic Scholars and Islamic Teachers Association (PERGAS), Muhammadiyah and Islamic Theological Association of Singapore (Pertapis).\n\nThere are also many Indian-Muslim organisations in Singapore e.g. Federation of Indian Muslims, Singapore Kadayanallur Muslim League, Singapore Tenkasi Muslim Welfare Society, Thiruvithancode Muslim Union, and United Indian Muslim Association.\n\nThere are also religio-cultural groups like Al Usrah Al Dandaraweyah, formed in the structure of a family.\n\nOthers are like the Tariqah group at-Tariqah al-Ahmadiah al-Idrisiah ar-Rasyidiah, and Naqshbandi Haqqani Singapore.\n\nThis first established religio-cultural group; of Qadriah, Chistia, Naqshabandiyah, Sanusiyyah, Suharwadiyah; is now named as Khanqah Khairiyyah which was formed in 1971 and they have since been at the same location in Siglap Road Singapore.\n\nThe Shi'ite community consists of Twelver Shi'ites, Ismailis and Dawoodi Bohras.\n\nIn Singapore, the history of the Twelver Shi'ites began with the immigration of the Khoja community from India. A member of Khoja community spearheaded the founding of the Jaafari Muslim Association.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Malays from the Muslim Youth Assembly (Himpunan Belia Islam) joined the Shi'ite community. A centre known as Hussainiyah Azzahra was later established.\n\nThe Jaafari Muslim Association and Muslim Youth Assembly cater to the Twelver Shi'ites.\n\nThe spiritual leader (Da'i al-Mutlaq) of the Dawoodi Bohras is Mohammed Burhanuddin, who represents the twenty-first imam. The Anjuman-E-Burhani caters to the Dawoodi Bohra community in Singapore. Bohra traders started settling in Singapore in the 1820s. The mosque for the Bohra community is the Burhani Mosque which was established in 1829. It has since been rebuilt and is now an 11-storey complex comprising prayer halls, function halls, meeting rooms and offices.\n\nThe Ismailis are followers of Aga Khan. The Aga Khan has decided to establish an Ismaili Centre and regional representative office of the Aga Khan Development Network in Singapore.\n\nThere is also a significant proportion of the Sunni Hanafi Muslims in Singapore. Generally most Pakistanis in Singapore are Hanafi. While they often inter-mix with the Malay who follow the Shafi'i madhab, Indian mosques in Singapore such as Angullia Mosque cater for the needs of the Hanafi Muslim in Singapore.\n\nIn Singapore there is a significant impact of the Islamic Dawah (Invitation/conversion) movement. There are many local/international organisations (e.g., Hikmah Times).\n\nThe Muslim Converts' Association of Singapore (also known as Darul Arqam) provides support for converts.\n\nThere are 75 mosques in Singapore. With the exception of Masjid Temenggong Daeng Ibrahim (which is administered by the State of Johor), all the mosques in Singapore are administered by Muis. Twenty-three mosques were built using the Mosque Building and Mendaki Fund (MBMF). Masjid Al-Mawaddah, the twenty-third MBMF mosque, was officially opened in May 2009.\nThe speakers for broadcasting the Islamic call to prayer was turned inwards to broadcast towards the interior of the mosques as part of a noise abatement campaign in 1974.\n\nIn Singapore, madrasahs are private schools which are overseen by Majlis Ugama Islam Singapura (MUIS, \"Islamic Religious Council of Singapore\"). There are six full-time madrasahs in Singapore, catering to students from Primary 1 to Secondary 4 (and junior college equivalent, or \"Pre-U\", at several schools). Four Madrasahs are coeducational and two are for girls. Students take a range of Islamic Studies subjects in addition to mainstream MOE curriculum subjects and sit for the PSLE and GCE 'O' Levels like their peers. In 2009, MUIS introduced the \"Joint Madrasah System\" (JMS), a joint collaboration of Madrasah Al-Irsyad Al-Islamiah primary school and secondary schools Madrasah Aljunied Al-Islamiah (offering the \"ukhrawi\", or religious stream) and Madrasah Al-Arabiah Al-Islamiah (offering the academic stream). The JMS aims to introduce the International Baccalaureate (IB) programme into the Madrasah Al-Arabiah Al-Islamiah by 2019. Students attending a madrasah are required to wear the traditional Malay attire, including the songkok for boys and tudong for girls, in contrast to mainstream government schools which ban religious headgear as Singapore is officially a secular state. For students who wish to attend a mainstream school, they may opt to take classes on weekends at the \"madrasah\" instead of enrolling full-time.\n\n"}
{"id": "3998379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3998379", "title": "Jainism in Maharashtra", "text": "Jainism in Maharashtra\n\nJainism has been present in Maharashtra since ancient times. The famous Ellora Caves demonstrate that Jainism was part of a thriving religious culture in Maharashtra in premodern times.\n\nThe Marathi Jainism is basically originated from Maharashtra and flourished here.\n\nThe oldest inscription in Maharashtra is a 2nd-century BC Jain inscription in a cave near Pale village in the Pune District. It was written in the Jain Prakrit and includes the Navkar Mantra.\n\nThe first Marathi inscription known is at Shravanabelagola, Karnataka near the left foot of the statue of Bahubali, dated 981 CE.\n\nMaharashtra had many Jain rulers such as the Rashtrakuta dynasty and the Shilaharas. Many of forts were built by kings from these dynasties and thus Jain temples or their remains are found in them. Texts such as the \"Shankardigvijaya\" and \"Shivlilamruta\" suggest that a large number of Maharashtrians were Jains in the ancient period.\n\nThe native Jains of Maharashtra today are endogamous communities and generally do not intermarry with the Jains who have arrived from North India. They are all Digambaras and are divided into four large communities:\n\n\nIn addition there are several smaller native Maharashtrian Jain communities.\n\n\nEach of the four major communities led by its own spiritual leader (Bhattaraka), who heads a Matha.\n\nImmigrant Jains have a large population in Maharashtra. Majority of them are from Rajasthan and Gujarat. Some of them are from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Some of these communities have been in Maharashtra for centuries, and are now indistinguishable from the native residents of Maharashtra. They are divided in following large groups:\n\nThe Dakshin Bharat Jain Sabha is a religious and social service organization of the Jains of South India. The organization is headquartered at Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India. The association is credited with being one of the first Jain associations to start reform movements among the Jains in modern India. The organization mainly seeks to represent the interests of the native Jains of Maharashtra (Marathi Jains) and Karnataka (Kannada Jains).\n\nMumbai has one of the largest populations of Jains amongst all the cities in India. Mumbai also has numerous Jain temples.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5181707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5181707", "title": "Jarno Elg", "text": "Jarno Elg\n\nJarno Sebastian Elg (born 1975) is a Finnish Satanist (portrayed as Devil worshipper by medias), who was sentenced to life in prison for murdering a 23-year-old man, eating some of the body parts and instigating others to participate in a ritual that included torturing the victim while listening to songs from \"The Cainian Chronicle\" album by the Norwegian black metal band Ancient on November 21, 1998, in Hyvinkää. Elg's partners were 17-year-old Terhi Johanna Tervashonka from Järvenpää, a 20-year-old man from Mäntsälä and a 16-year-old boy from Kerava.\n\nJarno Elg was tracked by the police and sentenced to life in prison. The Hyvinkää District Court in southern Finland sentenced accomplices Terhi Johanna Tervashonka, to eight years and six months in prison and Mika Kristian Riska, to two years and eight months. It was said that the three people \"were strongly influenced by Satanism\". The court declared most of the details of the case sealed for 40 years. For this reason, only a limited amount of information is available.\n\nThe criminal investigation started when a leg was found from a dump site, thus giving the name \"dump site murder\" to the case. The case was generally described as the most gruesome homicide in Finnish history.\n\nAfter the sentences, the media \"tried to raise up Black Metal as a scapegoat for the happenings in Hyvinkää\". Demonos Sova of Barathrum \"tried his very best not to involve Black Metal and Satanism with the murder\" and called the murderers \"some nutcases\", whereas the \"I Return to Darkness\" fanzine \"fully supports the murder of Hyvinkää and would like to hail in honour all those who participated in it\". An article printed by the Norwegian \"Slayer\" fanzine stated that \"[i]t's amazing how Satanists are always so full of strength and never forget to remind us that the week must be weeded out., yet when someone does actually weed out some weak hypocrite - they are the first to mourn in public to save their precious Satanism from the terrible Devil Worshippers who ruin the whole name and essence of Satan which actions that, of course, don't have anything to do with 'real' Satanism\", and told Sova to \"[f]uck off and die\". The article also questions why some people within the scene were \"so fucking protective concerning Black Metal's 'good reputation'\" although \"Black Metal was the only form of 'music' where the music itself doesn't come as the first priority\", whereas musicians now would seem to \"care more about their guitars than the actual essence onto which the whole concept was and is based upon\". In \"Metalion: The Slayer Mag Diaries\", the fanzine's author Metalion stated that it was a \"stupid article\" and people gave him \"lots of shit for printing the article, especially because the point of view tended to support the attackers\".\n\nIn an interview given in 2000, Tervashonka explained that the case was not murder in her opinion. She said that a totally drunken group had tied and silenced their member who had become noisy by using a duct tape without understanding that he would die of suffocation as a consequence. After they found that the person was dead they had cut the corpse (while still being totally drunken) and also afterwards for the purpose of hiding it. Tervashonka denied that the case had been related to devil worshiping.\n\nThe Helsinki Court of Appeal granted Elg a parole in December 2014.\n"}
{"id": "4784969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4784969", "title": "Jewish education", "text": "Jewish education\n\nJewish education (, \"Chinukh\") is the transmission of the tenets, principles and religious laws of Judaism. Known as \"People of the Book\", Jews value education. The emphasis and value of education is strongly embedded in Jewish culture. Judaism places a heavy emphasis on Torah study. Throughout Jewish history, the tradition of Jewish education began with the Old Testament during biblical times. The bible describes the purpose of Jewish education. The main purpose in the bible is to know how to worship God. Therefore, Jewish parents needed to teach their children about some basic prayers and what the Torah forbids at their young ages. Parents should have transmitted Jewish morals, faith, and values to their children. The bible’s teachings have important impact on Jewish education. Because of this, Jewish education is rooted in the Torah. Nathan H. Winter wrote, “Torah has also been described as that dealing with the whole existence of the human being; that which touches life at every point. Torah also connotes learning, instruction, and guidance. Jewish education was concerned with the transmission of this cultural heritage to the individual Jew.” \n\nJewish education has been valued since the birth of Judaism. Abraham is lauded for instructing his offspring in God's ways. One of the basic duties of Jewish parents is to provide for the instruction of their children as set forth in the first paragraph of the Shema Yisrael prayer: “Take to heart these instructions with which I charge you this day. Impress them upon your children. Recite them when you stay at home and when you are away, when you lie down and when you get up. Bind them as sign on your hand and let them serve as a symbol on your forehead; inscribe them on the doorposts of your house and your gates” (Deut. 6:6-9). Additionally, children are advised to seek the instruction of their parents: \"Remember the days of old, consider the years of many generations; ask thy father, and he will declare unto thee, thine elders, and they will tell thee\" (Deut. 32:7). The Book of Proverbs also contains many verses related to education: “My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your mind retain my commandments; For they will bestow on you length of days, years of life and well-being“ (Prov. 3:1-2).\n\nElementary school learning was regarded as compulsory by Simeon ben Shetah as early as 75 BCE and Joshua ben Gamla in 64 CE. The education of older boys and men in a beit midrash goes back to the Second Temple period. The importance of education is stressed in the Talmud, which states that children should begin school at six. The rabbis stated that they should not be beaten with a stick or cane, that older students should help those who were younger, and that children should not be kept from their lessons by other duties. \n\nAccording to Judah ben Tema, “At five years the age is reached for studying Mikra, at ten for studying the Mishnah, at thirteen for fulfilling the mitzvoth, at fifteen for studying Talmud” (Avot 5:21). Mikra refers to the written Torah, Mishnah refers to the complementary oral Torah (the concise and precise laws dictating how the written Torah's commandments are achieved) and Talmud refers to comprehension of the oral and written law's unity and contemplation of the laws. The term \"Talmud\" used here is a method of study and is not to be confused by the later compilations by the same name. In keeping with this tradition, Jews established their own schools or hired private tutors for their children until the end of the 18th century. Schools were housed in annexes or separate buildings close to the synagogue.\n\nRabbi Meir Simcha of Dvinsk (in his Meshech Chochma) observes that God's statement \"[Abraham is blessed because] he will instruct his children and his house after him to follow in God's ways to perform righteousness and justice\" (Genesis 18:19) is an implicit \"mitzvah\" to teach Judaism.\n\nSex segregation in education has traditionally been the norm. As of 2012, education in the Haredi community was strictly segregated by sex. The education for boys was primarily focused on the study of Jewish scriptures, such as the Torah and Talmud, while girls obtained studies both in Jewish education as well as broader secular subjects.\n\nThe Talmud (Tractate Bava Bathra 21a) attributes the institution of formal Jewish education to the first century sage Joshua ben Gamla. Prior to this, parents taught their children informally. Ben Gamla instituted schools in every town and made education compulsory from the age of 6 or 7. The Talmud attaches great importance to the \"Tinokot shel beth Rabban\" (the children [who study] at the Rabbi's house), stating that the world continues to exist for their learning and that even for the rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem, classes are not to be interrupted (Tractate Shabbat 119b).\n\nIn Mishnaic and Talmudic times young men were attached to a \"beth din\" (court of Jewish law), where they sat in three rows and progressed as their fellow students were elevated to sit on the court.\n\nAfter the formal court system was abolished, \"yeshivot\" became the main places for Torah study. The Talmud itself was composed largely in the \"yeshivot\" of Sura and Pumbedita in Babylonia, and the leading sages of the generation taught there. Yeshivot have remained of central importance in the Orthodox community to this day. Until the 19th century, young men generally studied under the local rabbi, who was allocated funds by the Jewish community to maintain a number of students. The Hasidic masters and the Lithuanian rabbi Chaim Volozhin both founded centralised \"yeshivot\".\n\nIn the 21st century, critics in both the United States and Israel, such as Naftuli Moster, have protested that some yeshivas are teaching religious studies to the exclusion of secular subjects such as mathematics and science. They are promoting the adoption of national or state standards on secular subjects by the yeshivas.Israel's Ministry of Education’s statistics from 2014 show that only about 22 percent of Haredi students take matriculation exams, since Orthodox yeshivot mostly ignore core subjects. About 8 percent of Haredi students pass the exam. Miriam Ben-Peretz, professor emeritus of education at the University of Haifa, and winner of the 2006 Israel Prize notes: “More and more Israeli students don’t have any foundation of knowledge, any basics — not in math, not in English, not in general...things have to change.\"Some Israelis who have been educated in Haredi yeshivas have established Leaving for Change (LFC), an organization seeking to sue the government for alleged failure to enforce Israel's law for compulsory education.\n\nCheder in Meron, 1912\n\nThe phenomenon of the \"Jewish Day School\" is of relatively common origin. Until the 19th and 20th century, boys attended the Cheder (literally \"room,\" since it was in the synagogue, which historically was a building with a Bet Midrash being the only room) or Talmud Torah where they were taught by a \"Melamed tinokos' (children's teacher).\"\n\nThe first Jewish day schools developed in Germany, largely in response to the higher emphasis in general on secular studies. In the past, an apprenticeship was sufficient to learn a profession, or alternatively several years in a \"gymnasium\" could prepare one adequately for university. Rabbis who pioneered Jewish day schools included Rabbi Shimson Raphael Hirsch, whose \"Realschule\" in Frankfurt am Main served as a model for numerous similar institutions. Jews have also been disproportionately engaged in the building of academic institutions of education and in promoting teaching as a professional career. Three of the past four presidents of the American Federation of Teachers have been Jews: starting with Albert Shanker, her successor Sandra Feldman, all the way to current AFT president, Randi Weingarten.\n\nToday, there are over 750 day schools in the United States and 205,000 students in those schools. Beyond those students, hundreds of thousands (~250,000) of Jewish children attend supplementary religious, Hebrew, and congregational schools.\n\nIt was also in the 19th and early 20th century, with the advent of public education for all, that an emphasis was first placed on girls' education. Before this, particularly in Eastern Europe, girls received their Jewish and Hebrew education at home, and were often illiterate in Hebrew. In the 19th century, public education was made compulsory in most of Europe, and in order to maintain educational control over the Jewish children, Jewish schools became a reality. It was as a result of the initiative of Sarah Schenirer, that the first Jewish girls' Bais Yaakov school opened in Kraków in 1918. Girls in the United States at this time were often educated at public schools together with boys, and they received their Jewish education through programs at synagogues and Sunday schools, because Jewish day schools were less common.\n\nIn the Jewish society, women were not allowed to participate in most synagogue prayer, and they only allowed to engage in communal prayer. During the nineteenth century, women could only read Yiddish. Parents should have sent their sons to the primary school, so that their sons could have learned the Hebrew language and the Torah text. Some wealthier parents even employed private tutors for their sons at home. However, some girls in the wealth family may be given the opportunity to learn Jewish vernacular and Hebrew as well. Many girls remained illiterate during the old times. Women stayed home with their family or worked jobs such as maids and seamstresses. After the World War II began, more and more women were used as spies, couriers, nurses, and some even became soldiers. Until the end of World War II, women had transformed into Jewish studies research and teaching in the twenty-first century. The balance of women and men made great strides in equality in Jewish schools.\n\nRecent studies estimate a population of 650,000 Jewish middle and high school students. Most of these attend Jewish youth groups or participate in activities funded by Jewish youth organizations Jewish youth organizations. Many of these are Zionist youth movements. The various organizations differ in political ideology, religious affiliation, and leadership structure, although they all tend to be characterized by a focus on youth leadership.\n\nThe Conservative movement has USY - United Synagogue Youth. The Modern Orthodox movement has NCSY - formerly National Conference of Synagogue Youth. BBYO is a non-denominational group, though most Jews associate it with the Conservative or Reform movements. The North American Federation of Temple Youth, known as NFTY, is the organized youth movement of Reform Judaism in North America. Funded and supported by the Union for Reform Judaism, NFTY exists to supplement and support Reform youth groups at the synagogue level. About 750 local youth groups affiliate themselves with the organization, comprising over 8,500 youth members.\n\nJewish summer camps are a tool for creating ties with a particular denomination of Judaism and/or orientation to Israel. Camps are sponsored by the Orthodox, Conservative, Reconstructionist, and Reform movement, by Jewish community centers, and by Zionist movements such as Young Judaea, Habonim Dror, Hashomer Hatzair and B'nei Akiva. Over 70,000 campers participate in over 150 non-profit Jewish summer camps, especially in the United States. In addition, the Foundation for Jewish Camp estimates that these camps are staffed by over 8,500 Jewish college-aged counselors. American-style Jewish summer camps can also be found in other countries, such as Camp Kimama in Israel. Outside the United States, similar camps are generally organized by various philanthropic organizations and local Jewish youth movements. \n\nThe Camp Ramah network, affiliated with Conservative Judaism runs camps in North America where youngsters experience traditional \"Shabbat\" observance, study Hebrew and observe the laws of kashrut.\n\nThe Union for Reform Judaism runs the largest Jewish camping system in the world, the URJ Camp & Israel Programs. They operate 13 summer camps across North America, including a sports specialty camp, teen leadership institute and programs for youth with special needs, as well as a number of Israel travel programs. Participants in these programs observe \"Shabbat\", engage in programming about Jewish values and history, and partake in typical summer camp activities including athletics, creative arts and color war.\n\nMuch informal Jewish education is organized on university campuses. This is often supported by national organizations, such as (United States) or the Union of Jewish Students (United Kingdom), or by international organizations such as the World Union of Jewish Students and the European Union of Jewish Students.\n\nThe Rohr Jewish Learning Institute in partnership with The Chabad on Campus International Foundation, manages the Sinai Scholars Society, an integrated fellowship program for college campus students comprising Torah study, social activities, and national networking opportunities. \nOne of the earliest examples of drama-based Jewish education is the theatrical works of Rabbi Moshe Chaim Luzatto (Ramchal 1707-1746, b. Italy), who wrote plays with multiple characters on Jewish themes. While the use of such plays was probably rare in traditional Jewish education, the Etz Chaim school of Jerusalem reportedly staged plays in the 1930s. One such play put King David's general Joab on trial for his various crimes. The students and faculty played the roles of judge, advocates and a jury, all based on extensive Biblical and Talmudic research.\n\nIn more recent times, drama is being further developed as an educational tool [http://www.daat.ac.il/daat/english/education/krug-1.htm <nowiki>[3]</nowiki>]. For example, Detroit, MI has an ensemble theater devoted to education and outreach.[http://www.thisisfederation.org/alliance/trg/jet.asp <nowiki>[4]</nowiki>]. Programs such as Jewish Crossroads by Shlomo Horwitz provide educational theater in schools and synagogues in various English-speaking countries [http://jewishcrossroads.org/ <nowiki>[5]</nowiki>]. The Lookstein Center at Bar Ilan, a think tank geared to Jewish educators in the Diaspora, lists many drama-related programs on their website for use of teachers in the classroom [http://www.googlesyndicatedsearch.com/u/lookstein?q=drama&sa.x=14&sa.y=13 <nowiki>[6]</nowiki>].\n\nSports is another vehicle to connect Jewish youth to Judaism and Israel. Bring It In - Israel offers a sports volunteering program in Israel that cultivates a cadre of young leaders who return to their communities to promote interest in Israel and Judaism. The perceived role of sports as a historical avenue was crucial for Jewish people to overcome social, religious and cultural obstacles toward their participation in secular society (especially in Europe and the United States).\n\n"}
{"id": "44257138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44257138", "title": "John W. de Gruchy", "text": "John W. de Gruchy\n\nJohn W. de Gruchy (born 18 March 1939) is a Christian theologian known for his work resisting apartheid. He is presently Emeritus Professor at the University of Cape Town and Extraordinary Professor at the University of Stellenbosch.\n\nA native of Pretoria, South Africa, de Gruchy studied at the University of Cape Town, Rhodes University, Chicago Theological Seminary and the University of Chicago. He has two doctorates, one in theology and another in the social sciences, and a number of honorary doctorates.\n\nFor many years, he was Robert Selby Taylor Professor of Christian Studies at University of Cape Town. He remains an Emeritus Professor at the University of Cape Town and holds a post as an Extraordinary Professor at the University of Stellenbosch. A feschrift was published in his honor in 2002.\n\nSome of his earliest works were written in the midst of apartheid in South Africa, speaking out against the legislation and engaging the theology of Dietrich Bonhoeffer to argue for the liberation of the oppressed. After apartheid legislation was abolished in 1991, de Gruchy wrote a number of works speaking about the theological role of art in society and advocating for a theology of reconciliation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8876812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8876812", "title": "Kallah", "text": "Kallah\n\nYarchei Kallah (Hebrew: ירחי כלה) is the name of a teachers' convention that was held twice a year in Babylonian Academies, by the Jews then in captivity in Babylon, after the beginning of the amoraic period, in the two months Adar and Elul. \n\nFor each year's convention of the Kallah, a treatise of the Mishnah was written forming the subject of explanation and discussion at the convention, according to Ta'anit 10b (see R. Hananeel in Kohut, l.c. iv. 227b). cites opinions attributing authorship to either Jehudai Gaon (8th century) or to Eliezer ben Hyrcanus (c.100 CE) with later additions and redaction.\n\nThe regular Kallah conventions concerned issues related to marriage, chastity, and moral purity. The subject matter was largely taken from the Babylonian Talmud.\n\nIn the land of Israel there was no Kallah. A. Schwarz (\"Jahrbuch für Jüdische Gesch. und Litteratur,\" 1899, ii. 102) claims that this cannot be asserted with certainty, but available historical records show that the Kallah was purely an institution practiced in the Babylone's diaspora.\n\nThe Mishnaic Hebrew word Yarchei (sing. Yareiach) means \"months.\" The word literally is translated as \"moons.\" The source for this common Mishnaic term is the fact that Jewish months are based on the lunar cycle. (Note that there is a similar relationship between the English words \"moon\" and \"month\".)\n\nThe word Kallah is always written with ה as in כלה, the Hebrew word for \"bride\"; but the manner in which this meaning has been connected with a convention of teachers (Levy, \"Neuhebr. Wörterbuch,\" ii. 321) has not been satisfactorily explained. Perhaps the word is merely another form of the Aramaic כללא = \"totality,\" although this word never occurs in traditional literature as a designation for a collection or assembly of people. It may be connected also with the Aramaic כלילא = \"garland,\" the assembly of teachers being thought of as a garland adorning the academy (comp. \"Ḥazi ha-Goren\" and \"Kerem\" as designations of the circle which the Sanhedrin formed). In Latin, also, \"corona\" means \"circle,\" \"assembly.\" Kohut (\"Aruch Completum,\" iv. 428a) has a similar explanation, although he adds an incorrect comparison with a Persian word.\n\nThe importance of the Kallah Convention (referred to under another name) is extolled in the Midrash Tanḥuma (Noaḥ, § 3): \"God has appointed the two academies [\"yeshibot\"] for the good of Israel. In them day and night are devoted to the study of the Torah; and thither come the scholars from all places twice a year, in Adar and Elul, and associate with one another in discussions on the Torah.\" The greater the attendance at the convention, the greater was the renown of the academy. Hence Abaye says (Ber. 6b): \"The most important part of the Kallah is a crowd.\" There was a saying in Babylonia that whoever dreamed of going into a forest would become president of the Kallah (the Kallah being likened to a forest).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2557806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2557806", "title": "List of Christian Scientists (religious denomination)", "text": "List of Christian Scientists (religious denomination)\n\n\"This list consists of notable members of the denomination called Church of Christ, Scientist. For a list of Christians who are also scientists go to List of Christian thinkers in science.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47443829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47443829", "title": "List of Digambar Jain ascetics", "text": "List of Digambar Jain ascetics\n\nThis is a list of the ascetics belonging to the Digambara sect of Jainism. These ascetics are known for their contributions to Jain philosophy and Jainism in general. According to Digambar jain history there are about three less than ten million jain ascetics till this date that have achieved Moksha.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5597183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5597183", "title": "List of gurdwaras in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of gurdwaras in the United Kingdom\n\nThis list of gurdwaras in the United Kingdom shows the location of major gurdwaras (Sikh worship centers), grouped by countries and regions in the United Kingdom.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9025", "title": "Lists of deities", "text": "Lists of deities\n\nThis is an index of lists of deities of the different religions, cultures and mythologies of the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5993039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5993039", "title": "Liturgics", "text": "Liturgics\n\nLiturgics is the academic discipline dedicated to the study of liturgy (public worship rites, rituals, and practices). Liturgics scholars typically specialize in a single approach drawn from another scholarly field. The most common sub-disciplines are: history or church history, theology, and anthropology. Although liturgics scholars using these approaches apply the principles of their respective disciplines to their research, all liturgics scholars focus their work in the ritual behaviors of the members of faith communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "55822125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55822125", "title": "Mel and Dorothy Tanner", "text": "Mel and Dorothy Tanner\n\nDorothy Tanner (born January 30, 1923) is an American light sculptor, installation artist, musician, videographer, and spoken word artist based in Denver, Colorado. Her husband Mel Tanner (September 26, 1925 - October 21, 1993) was an American light sculptor, painter, installation artist, and videographer. The couple worked very closely for over 40 years. Their main project was the creation of \"Lumonics\" that consists of their light sculptures, live projection, video, electronics and music as a total art installation. Author and art historian, Michael Betancourt described this conceptual art as a Gesamtkunstwerk in his book, \"The Lumonics Theater: The Art of Mel & Dorothy Tanner,\" published in 2004\".\"\n\nDorothy Tanner studied woodcarving with Chaim Gross at the Educational Alliance, sculpture with Aaron Goodleman at the Jefferson School of Social Science, life drawing with Gabor Peterdi and sculpture with Milton Hebald at the Brooklyn Museum School of Art. She met Mel Tanner while they were both students at the Brooklyn Museum School, and married in 1951. \n\nMel Tanner was a World War II veteran and attended art school under the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, better known as the G.I. Bill. He first attended Pratt Institute and then the Brooklyn Museum School, studying painting with instructors including Max Beckmann, John Ferren, and Reuben Tam. When Dorothy first visited Mel Tanner's basement studio in Brooklyn in 1950, he painted in a pointillist style, using a palette knife rather than a brush, and mixing paint with beeswax to give the paintings texture and dimensionality. He later painted on raw canvas, creating big loose shapes in the action painting style.\n\nThe Tanners moved to Syracuse, New York in 1951 and founded the Syracuse Art Workshop where Dorothy taught sculpture and Mel taught painting. They taught art to children in a summer program at Syracuse University. The residence in Syracuse had a carriage house in the rear where Dorothy set up her studio, working with materials including wood, clay, plaster, and polyester, and the high ceilings enabled her to build large metal sculptures. She exhibited her new metal sculptures in a solo show at the Key Gallery in New York City in 1962, and Mel Tanner exhibited his new paintings which combined calligraphy and geometric shapes at Key that same year. Their exhibitions stimulated them to return to Manhattan.\nDecades later, Ms.Tanner reflected on her view of the New York art of the early 1960s:\n\n\"The art scene in New York was in turmoil. Abstract expressionism was in the late days of its heyday. Op and pop art were coming up strong, and minimalism was just around the corner.\"\n\nIn 1963, the Tanners returned to New York City, where they founded Granite Gallery, an artist cooperative. They formed the Granite Art Association, which organized seminars, forums, and exhibitions, including \"The New Face in Art\" \"Forum\" \"and Exhibition\" in 1964 which took place at the Loeb Student Center at New York University. Participants included artists Louise Nevelson, Red Grooms, Norman Carton, and art critic Gordon Brown. The Tanners co-curated \"The New Face in Art Exhibition\" and showed their work with artists that included Louis Schanker, Murray Hantman, and Leo Quanchi. In 1965, they closed the Gallery and traveled extensively in Europe.\n\nThe Tanners returned to the U.S. in 1966, and on their way to San Francisco, they stopped in Miami to visit family members. Weary of traveling, they opened an art studio that they named Grove Studio. This was the same time period as the Light and Space movement in Los Angeles that included Robert Irwin, Larry Bell, and James Turrell, who were experimenting with light as an art form. The Light and Space movement had affiliation with art schools and industry, whereas the Tanners were very isolated from the art world in Miami at that time. Yet it provided them with freedom to develop their art form. \n\nTheir new medium became acrylic, an industrial material that they first began to use in sculptures when living in New York and that were commissioned by corporations including Air Products and Chemicals Inc., Raytheon Corporation, and General Electric in 1963 and 1964.\n\nIntrigued by acrylic's light transmitting qualities and color, the Tanners made cubes and pedestals that were internally lighted at their studio in Miami. Their first exhibition of the new work was at Hi-Fi Associates in Miami in the spring of 1969 when high-end stereo components were being introduced to the public. The announcement referred to it as a \"new direction in sound, new directions in environment, and a new direction in art.\"\nThe light sculptures became their main focus and collaboration. In 1969, they converted the studio into a theater, and acquired the technology (a color organ) that made it possible to synchronize the light sculptures with music. Slide projectors using their hand-painted slides, overhead projectors, strobe lights, and the color organ were their new artistic toolbox. Blow-up furniture, water beds, mylar (a reflective material) on the walls, and the light sculptures created a powerful setting. Lumia art was part of the projection as well as an element in several of the light sculptures. The three main elements of lumia, defined by light art pioneer, Thomas Wilfred (1889–1968), are \"form, color, and motion in a dark space.\" The Tanners were not familiar with the Wilfred art work, yet began their lumia art in the time period when Wilfred died in 1968. Originally called Afterimage, the name \"Lumonics\" was originated by Dave Robbins in his review, ‘\"Lumonics’ A Completely New Art Form\" in the September 18, 1970 edition of the University of Miami student newspaper, \"The Hurricane\". This was the beginning of the Lumonics Light and Sound Theatre, chronicled in the Michael Betancourt book. The Tanners and a team of helpers presented Lumonics in Miami (1969-1979), San Diego, California (1980-81), Bangor, Maine (1981-82), and Fort Lauderdale, FL (1988-2009). From 1986 to 1987,The Tanners mounted an exhibition at the Patricia Judith Gallery in Boca Raton, Florida, their first exhibition of their light sculptures outside of the Lumonics Theatre. A new wing at the Gallery was added to house their art works.\n\nAfter Mel Tanner died in October, 1993, Dorothy collaborated with long-time team member Marc Billard on her light sculptures, video, and music to further the Lumonics expression. Tanner curated the exhibit, \"The Art of Lumonics\", at the Coral Springs Museum of Art, Coral Springs, Florida from March 4th to May 14, 2005 that featured both her work and that of her late husband, and the Tanner/Billard video art and music. Michael Mills, the art writer for New Times Broward-Palm Beach, wrote in the Museum introduction, \"The exhibition is something of a departure for Lumonics in that it takes the art out of the gallery/studio/theater context and into a museum environment.\" \nThe team relocated to Denver in 2009 and operates Tanner Studio/Lumonics Light & Sound Gallery. Ms. Tanner has had several art exhibits in Denver, including VERTIGO Art Space, the Museum of Outdoor Arts, the Gallery at the Denver International Airport (2014) and the Lakewood Cultural Center (2015). While her \"Creatures from Left Field\" exhibit was taking place at Lakewood, Tanner was one of three senior citizens, aged 82-102 and still active in the arts, interviewed by Ryan Warner on \"Colorado Matters\", Colorado Public Radio. The title of the program was \"Staying Vital As Time Marches On: Art Can Hold The Key.\"\n\nThe Museum of Outdoor Arts presented \"Lumonics Then & Now: A Retrospective of Light-Based Sculpture by Dorothy & Mel Tanner\" from January 13 to March 24 in 2017, and published a book about the exhibit and produced a documentary. On February 10, 2017, artist and art critic, Todd Siler, discussed the exhibit at the Denver Art Museum at the \"Exploring the Denver Art Scene Forum,\" and wrote a review for the Museum of Outdoor Arts web site, \"Luminous Art inspiring Our Hearts-n-Minds To Dream With Wonder: Experiencing the Art of Mel and Dorothy Tanner.\" Mr. Siler wrote that the Tanners and their art form brought to mind other \"innovative artists exploring new media and aesthetic experiences\" including James Turrell, Otto Peine, and Gyorgy Kepes. \n\nDorothy Tanner was invited by Denver Arts & Venues to create a site-specific art installation at the landmark McNichols Building in Civic Center Park in downtown Denver, beginning January 13, 2018. The exhibit, the \"Lumonics Mind Spa\", was open at no charge to the public seven days a week through July, 18, 2018. Dorothy Tanner and her studio continue as a Cultural Partner. In August, 2018, Dorothy Tanner was nominated for the \"Arts & Culture Impact Award,\" presented to an individual or an organization that has made a significant and lasting impact on arts and culture in the City and County of Denver. On Nov. 15, 2018, she received the \"Excellent in Arts & Culture Innovation Award\" from Denver Mayor Michael Hancock for \"breaking new ground in the arts and whose contribution to innovation in the arts has been significant in 2018.\" \n\nThe Lumonics School of Light Art was founded by Dorothy Tanner in Denver in October, 2018, and is co-directed by Dorothy Tanner and Marc Billard. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48872274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48872274", "title": "Mikky Lafey", "text": "Mikky Lafey\n\nMiguel Gerardo Diego Talamantes, better known as Mikky Lafey, (born 29 November 1988 in Piedras Negras) is a Mexican television presenter, producer, radio announcer, occultist and writer. \n\nMikky Lafey made his television debut in 2012 in the now defunct magazine program \"El Café Expresso\" for SuperMedios of Coahuila, with a brief section called \"El Chal\" but left shortly after to join the cast of another TV show, \"Hombres de Marte y Plutón\" (\"Men from Mars and Pluto\") with Alejandro Wong and Chuy Uresti – both transmitted by the SuperChannel22 channel, improving his notoriety by exposing taboos, sexuality and the friendship between heterosexuals and homosexuals.\n\nActing as interviewer, Lafey has interviewed various personalities from the art world, presenting both on radio and television. First in 2012, on radio, he interviewed Camilo Lara from Mexican Institute of Sound. In 2013, he interviewed Babo of Cartel de Santa, then in 2014 he interviewed Gabriel Montiel Gutiérrez (Werevertumorro), and Erik Canales, the vocalist of the Mexican rock band Allison, just to name a few. In 2015, he obtained an exclusive interview with Mario Bautista, Sebastian Yatra and the Latin Grammy Award-nominated Vázquez Sounds. On February 28th 2018 he made an exclusive interview to ex-t.A.T.u. Lena Katina and was presented on \"Mikky Lafey On Air\" by telephone link.\n\nLafey published some of his works using \"Aposento\" as a pseudonym, his debut book called \"Escritos de Demonios\" (\"Writings of Demons\") published on March 4, 2017 that shows a New Age movement called \"New Age Satanism\", a syncretic movement which he founded with his colleague Judas Kalid on February 13, 2013 in Mexico, becoming a religious reformer and a new rising philosopher.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2148321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2148321", "title": "Normative principle of worship", "text": "Normative principle of worship\n\nThe normative principle of worship is a Christian theological principle that teaches that worship in the Church can include those elements that are not prohibited by Scripture. The normative principle teaches that whatever is not prohibited in Scripture is permitted in worship, as long as it is agreeable to the peace and unity of the Church. In short, there must be agreement with the general practice of the Church and no prohibition in Scripture for whatever is done in worship.\n\nThe normative principle is often contrasted with the regulative principle of worship, which teaches that only those practices or elements which are specifically commanded or modelled in Scripture are to be permitted in worship services.\n\nAn example of the difference between these two principles of worship (normative and regulative) can be illustrated by the example of announcing notices in church (i.e. news, upcoming events, and other information). The normative principle holds that since such activity is not prohibited in the New Testament, and since announcing notices may well be beneficial for the congregation and their involvement in the activities of the church, then this practice should be permitted. On the other hand, the regulative principle would ban such activity from taking place in the church service, because no example of announcing notices at the church gathering can be found in the New Testament.\n\nHistorically, the definition of the normative principle concerned replicating scriptural patterns, i.e. norms. Dr. Peter Masters of the Metropolitan Tabernacle wrote an article on this subject and explained that the historic distinction is different to the one above. Historically, regulative meant simply obeying direct instructions, whereas normative meant not just the requirements of the regulative principle, but also replicating patterns established by the scriptures. One example of this concerns congregationalist polity in respect of church government: - proponents of this polity point to the biblical norm of churches being individually autonomous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41816364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41816364", "title": "Operation Sundown", "text": "Operation Sundown\n\nOperation Sundown was codename of a covert plan of India's secret service Research & Analysis Wing (RAW), in which Special Group of RAW's armed units was to abduct Sikh extrimist leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale from Guru Nanak Niwas in the Golden Temple complex, Amritsar. A RAW unit was formed to rehearse Operation Sundown in the Sarsawa Air Force Base in Uttar Pradesh.\n\nThe rehearsals for the operation were carried out in the base. But, the operation was never started due to the then Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi’s rejection. She did not wanted to hurt the religious sentiments of the Sikhs by carrying out the operation. In addition there was a risk of numerous casualties as a collateral damage of the operation. Golden Temple was one of the highly respected and most visited sites in Punjab. Civilian deaths within such a sacred place was unavoidable. Gandhi denied the approval to initiate Operation Sundown.\n\nOther options such as negotiations were opted for instead. The negotiations failed and the law and order situation in Punjab continued to deteriorate. In April 1984, A.S. Atwal the Deputy Inspector General in Punjab Police was murdered by a follower of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale at the steps of Golden temple. In June 1984 Operation Blue Star was carried out by the Indian Army to remove Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and his armed followers from the buildings of the Harmandir Sahib Complex in Amritsar, Punjab.\n\nOperation Sundown was revealed almost after three decades in January 2014 by India Today Magazine through investigation of UK's declassified Top Secret documents.\n"}
{"id": "2252416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2252416", "title": "Paolo Ferrari (writer)", "text": "Paolo Ferrari (writer)\n\nPaolo Ferrari (1822–1889), Italian dramatist, was born at Modena. His numerous works, chiefly comedies, and all marked by a fresh and piquant style, are the finest product of the modern Italian drama. After producing some minor pieces, in 1852 he made his reputation as a playwright with \"Goldoni e le sue Sedici Commedie\". Among numerous later plays his comedy \"Parini e la Satira\" (1857) had considerable success. Ferrari may be regarded as a follower of Carlo Goldoni, modelling himself on the French theatrical methods. in 1860 he was appointed professor of History at Modena and afterwards at Milan. His collected plays were published in 1877–1880 in 14 volumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "23306489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23306489", "title": "Prayojana", "text": "Prayojana\n\nThe word \"prayojana\" is a Sanskrit term which denotes the ultimate goal or object of attainment. Along with sambandha and abhidheya, prayojana is one of the three fundamental concepts in Gaudiya Vaishnava theology, where it is used to describe the ultimate goal of life - Prema, or pure love of Krishna.\n\n"}
{"id": "4758093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4758093", "title": "Religion in Jersey", "text": "Religion in Jersey\n\nDespite its small size, the population of Jersey is made of people with a diverse range of religions and beliefs. Traditionally seen as a Christian island, Jersey's established church is the Church of England, and Anglicanism and Catholicism are practised on the island in roughly equal numbers. Together, these religions account for around half the population of Jersey. Other denominations of Christianity and other religions such as Islam, Judaism, Sikhism, and Buddhism account for handfuls of people on the island. In recent years, irreligion has been an increasing force in Jersey, with two fifths of the population identifying as having no religion. This number rises to 52% for Jersey people under 35.\n\nIn the Neolithic period religious activity in the settled communities is marked by the building of ritual burial sites known as dolmens, from which food and personal items such as jewelry, spindle whorls, pottery, tools and animal bones have been excavated at La Hougue Bie (a ritual site used around 3500 BC). These finds indicate that Neolithic settlers possibly believed in an afterlife much like many modern religions, the burial of the dead with their belongings showing similarities to the burial process in the Egyptian religion. However recent excavations at La Hougue Bie by archaeologist Mark Patton, together with consideration of solar alignments, suggest that the Jersey Dolmens functioned more as centres of worship like cathedrals or churches, where burials are incidental to the main function.\n\nThere is some evidence from parish names of Celtic missions to the islands, notably Saint Brelade in Jersey and Saint Samson in Guernsey. Apart from place names and one note in the Life of Samson no documentary evidence is available.\n\nSometime between 535 and 545, Helier, who was to become Jersey's patron saint, went to the island bringing the gospel.\nThe island of Jersey remained part of the Duchy of Normandy until 1204 when King Philip II Augustus of France conquered the duchy from King John of England. The islands remained in the personal possession of the king and were described as being a Peculiar of the Crown. However, the island continued to be part of the Norman diocese of Coutances and was reluctant to come under the wing of the English church because it had many cultural ties with Normandy.\n\nThe island embraced the French Calvinist form of Protestantism during the Reformation and orders were received to remove all signs of the Papal Church in 1547. In 1550 and 1551 church property was sold for the benefit of the crown. The island remained under the diocese of Coutances until 1569.\n\nThere were several waves of Catholic immigration, notably in the 1790s during the French Revolution, in the 1830s and 1840s with the influx of Irish labourers and towards the end of the 19th century with the settlement of Catholic religious institutes.\n\nIslanders embraced Calvinism during the Reformation, especially under the influence of French language pamphlets and books from Geneva, France and the Low Countries.\n\nThe reign of Queen Mary I and King Philip was especially significant. Important Protestant religious leaders in Jersey and Guernsey fled to Geneva, and when they returned after Mary's death, they had taken on much of the severe form of Calvinism formulated there by Calvin, and set up Consistory Courts. Another factor was a reaction against the burning of heretics in the islands. In neighbouring Guernsey, Foxe records the remarkable death of the Protestant Perotine Massey, one of the Guernsey Martyrs, who gave birth while being burnt at the stake. Her newborn child was returned to the flames by the Catholic Bailiff.\n\nThere also was a sudden influx from France of Huguenots — the name given to French Calvinists — as Louis XIV revoked the Edict of Nantes in 1685, effectively depriving them of the freedom to practice their religion by brutal methods : (in accordance of catholic hierarchy):prosecutions : prisons, galley slaves, no property rights, \"dragonnades\"etc, etc \nThe style of worship was resolutely Calvinist. Queen Elizabeth I left Jersey and Guernsey more or less in charge of their own affairs, because of political expedience: Protestant islanders would be in opposition to Catholic France.\n\nAlthough Jersey was transferred to the Diocese of Winchester in 1569, it was not until the Governorship of Sir John Peyton in 1603, under James I, that the forms of the Anglican church were restored to Jersey. In 1620 David Bandinel was appointed the first Dean of Jersey since the Reformation. Anglicanism then became and remained the official religion of the island. In 2014 the Diocese changed, after 500 years, to the Diocese of Canterbury.\n\nIn 1774 Pierre Le Sueur and Jean Tentin returned to Jersey from Newfoundland and started to preach Methodism to which they had been converted while engaged in the Newfoundland fisheries. Some Huguenots were drawn to the ideas of Methodism similar to those of Calvinism.\n\nConflict with the authorities ensued when men refused to attend Militia drill when that coincided with chapel meetings. The Royal Court attempted to proscribe Methodist meetings, but King George III refused to countenance such interference with liberty of religion. The first Methodist minister in Jersey was appointed in 1783, and John Wesley preached in Jersey in August 1787, his words being interpreted into the vernacular for the benefit of those from the country parishes. The first building constructed specifically for Methodist worship was erected in Saint Ouen in 1809.\n\nJews first established a synagogue in Saint Helier in 1843.\n\nThere were only a small number of foreign and British Jews in Jersey before the start of the Occupation of the Channel Islands in the Second World War. Most of the Jewish population of Jersey evacuated to safety in June 1940 to the United Kingdom, but the United Kingdom did not permit foreign Nationals, including Jews, to leave for the United Kingdom, leaving them trapped in Jersey. 12 Jews were registered under the laws imposed by the Germans and administered by the Jersey authorities (a higher number concealed their Jewish identity or were helped to conceal their identity by resisters in the bureaucracy). However, the anti-Jewish repressions were not carried out systematically. Jews of British citizenship were less likely to be persecuted than foreigners. A number of well-known Jews lived through the Occupation in comparative openness, including Marianne Blampied, the wife of Edmund Blampied, the artist. The Bailiff of Jersey refused to ratify the registration of the eighth order requiring the wearing of a yellow star as a \"measure too far\". No Jersey Jew was required to wear a yellow star in the Island. In 1943 Jews were among those deported to internment camps in Germany, along with UK-born residents, former British military personnel and \"undesirables\".\n\nAfter the war, there was a revival of Jewish life in Jersey and a new congregation was founded in Saint Brélade in 1962. As of 2004, Jewish population was estimated at about 120.\n\nIn the 2015 Jersey Annual Social Survey, 54% of adults stated they had a religion, 39% said they did not, and 7% weren't sure. Of those who had a religion and gave details, 97% were Christian and the remaining 3% were Buddhist, Hindu, Jewish, Muslim, or Sikh. Christians broke down as 44% Anglican, 43% Catholic, and the remaining 13% another Christian denomination.\n\nIn addition to the Church of England, the island is host to the following faith groups:\n\nThose who are not religious and wish to exchange ideas on Humanist and Secular matters have an active local group which holds discussions in their Yahoo group as well as meeting for lunches in local restaurants.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "321459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321459", "title": "Religious male circumcision", "text": "Religious male circumcision\n\nReligious male circumcision generally occurs shortly after birth, during childhood or around puberty as part of a rite of passage. Circumcision is most prevalent in the religions of Judaism, Islam, Coptic Orthodox Church, Ethiopian Orthodox Church and Eritrean Orthodox Church.\n\nMany countries with majorities of Christian adherents have low circumcision rates (as in Europe and South America), while both religious and non-religious circumcision is common in some predominantly Christian countries such as the United States, and the Philippines, Canada, and in North and West Africa and it is common in countries such as Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria and Kenya, Male circumcision is also widely practiced among Christians from South Korea, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Palestine, Israel, and North Africa. Circumcision rates in Oceania were high but are now relatively low.\n\nWhile the Catholic Church has condemned religious circumcision for its members, and currently maintains a neutral position on the practice of non-religious circumcision, Coptic Christianity and Ethiopian Orthodoxy and Eritrean Orthodoxy still observe male circumcision and practice circumcision as a rite of passage. Hodges affirms that in Classical civilization the foreskin was positively valued both from Ancient Greeks and Romans, and that Greek and Roman attempts to abolish ritual circumcision were prompted by humanitarian concerns.\n\nMale circumcision practised as a religious rite is found in texts of the Hebrew Bible, as part of the Abrahamic covenant, such as in , and is therefore practised by Jews, Muslims, and some Christians, who constitute the Abrahamic religions. Some rabbinical sources indicate that even before the covenant of Abraham, the aposthia of Shem may have been an inspiration for circumcision; although the aposthia of Shem is not specifically mentioned in the Genesis text.\n\nAccording to \"Halakha\" (Jewish law), ritual circumcision of male children is a commandment from God that Jews are obligated to follow, and is only postponed or abrogated in the case of threat to the life or health of the child. Jews do not believe that non-Jews are obligated to follow this commandment; only the Seven Laws of Noah apply to non-Jews.\n\nThere are numerous references to circumcision in the Hebrew Bible. Circumcision was enjoined upon the biblical patriarch Abraham, his descendants and their slaves as \"a token of the covenant\" concluded with him by God for all generations, an \"everlasting covenant\" (), thus it is commonly observed by two (Judaism and Islam) of the Abrahamic religions.\n\nThe penalty of non-observance was \"kareth\" (Hebrew: \"cutting off\") from the people (, ; ). Non-Israelites had to undergo circumcision before they could be allowed to take part in the feast of Passover (). See also Mosaic Law directed at non-Jews and Conversion to Judaism.\n\nIt was \"a reproach\" for an Israelite to be uncircumcised () The name \"arelim\" (uncircumcised) became an opprobrious term, especially a pejorative name for the Philistines, who might have been of Greek origin, in the context of the fierce wars recounted in the Book of Samuel (, ). When the general (and future king) David wanted to marry King Saul's daughter, the King required a grisly \"dowry\" of a hundred Philistine foreskins. David went further: \"and David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife\".()\n\n\"Uncircumcised\" is used in conjunction with \"tame\" (unpure) for heathen (). The word 'arel' (uncircumcised) is also employed for \"impermeable\" (Lev. 26:41, \"their uncircumcised hearts\"; compare Jer. 9:25; Ezek. xliv. 7, 9); it is also applied to the first three years' fruit of a tree, which is forbidden (). \"The Philistines, more than any other nation, are regularly called uncircumised\" in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nHowever, the Israelites born in the wilderness after the exodus from Egypt apparently did not carry out the practice of circumcision. According to , \"all the people that came out\" of Egypt were circumcised, but those \"born in the wilderness\" were not. In any case, we are told that Joshua, before the celebration of the Passover, had them circumcised at Gilgal.\n\nThe Bible contains several narratives in which circumcision is mentioned. There is the circumcision and massacre of the Shechemites (), the hundred foreskin dowry () and the story of the Lord threatening to kill Moses, and being placated by Zipporah's circumcision of their son (), and the circumcision at Gilgal of .\n\nThere is another sense in which the term \"circumcise\" is used in the Bible. says: \"Circumcise the foreskin of your heart,\" (also quoted in , New JPS translates as: \"Cut away, therefore, the thickening about your hearts\") along with : \"To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that they may hear? behold their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: ...\" (New JPS translates: \"Their ears are blocked\"). says that circumcised and uncircumcised will be punished alike by the Lord; for \"all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart.\" The New JPS translation adds the note: \"\"uncircumcised of heart\": I.e., their minds are blocked to God's commandments.\" Non-Jewish tribes that practiced circumcision were described as being \"circumcised in uncircumcision.\"()\n\nDuring the Babylonian exile, Sabbath and circumcision became the characteristic symbols of the Jewish people. However, the Talmud orders that a boy must not be circumcised if he had two brothers, from the same mother as him, who have died as a result of their circumcisions; this may be due to a concern about haemophilia.\n\nContact with Greek polytheistic culture, especially at the games of the arena, made this distinction obnoxious to Jewish Hellenists seeking to assimilate into Greek culture. The consequence was their attempt to appear like the Greeks by epispasm (\"making themselves foreskins\"; ; Josephus, Ant. xii 5, § 1; Assumption of Moses, viii.; ;, Tosef.; Talmud tractes Shabbat xv. 9; Yevamot 72a, b; Yerushalmi Peah i. 16b; Yevamot viii. 9a). records that after King Antiochus effectively banned traditional Jewish religious practice, including circumcision, the Maccabean rebels \"forcibly circumcised all the uncircumcised boys they found within the borders of Israel.\" Circumcision was again banned by Emperor Hadrian (117-138 CE). His anti-circumcision law is considered by many to be one of the main causes of the Jewish Bar Kokhba revolt (132-135).\n\nAround 140 CE Rabbinic Judaism made its circumcision requirements stricter. Jewish circumcision includes the removal of the inner preputial epithelium, in a procedure that is called \"priah\"(Hebrew: פריעה), which means: 'uncovering'. This epithelium is also removed on modern medical circumcisions, to prevent post operative penile adhesion and its complications. According to rabbinic interpretation of the traditional Jewish sources, the \"periah\" has been performed, as part of Jewish circumcision, since the Israelites first inhabited the Land of Israel, and without it the mitzvah isn't performed at all. \nHowever, the editors of the \"Oxford Dictionary of the Jewish Religion\", note that \"periah\" was probably added by the rabbis, in order to \"prevent the possibility of obliterating the traces of circumcision\". Jewish law states that circumcision is a \"mitzva aseh\" (\"positive commandment\" to perform an act) and is obligatory for Jewish-born males and for non-circumcised Jewish male converts. It is only postponed or abrogated in the case of threat to the life or health of the child. It is usually performed by a \"mohel\" on the eighth day of life in a ceremony called a \"brit milah\" (or \"bris milah\", colloquially simply \"bris\"), which means \"Covenant of circumcision\" in Hebrew. According to Jewish law, the foreskin should be buried after a \"brit milah\". The rite is considered of such importance that in Orthodox communities, the body of an uncircumcised Jewish male will sometimes be circumcised before burial. Although 19th century Reform leaders described it as \"barbaric\", the practice of circumcision \"remained a central rite\" and the Union for Reform Judaism has, since 1984, trained and certified over 300 practicing \"mohels\" under its \"Berit Mila Program\". Humanistic Judaism argues that \"circumcision is not required for Jewish identity.\"\n\nThe circumcision consists of three procedures, the first being the cutting of the foreskin. The second is the \"priah\", or peeling back of the epithelium after the foreskin has been amputated. According to Shaye J. D. Cohen, in Why Aren't Jewish Women Circumcised?: Gender and Covenant in Judaism, pg 25, the Torah only commands circumcision (milah). David Gollaher has written that the rabbis added the procedure of \"periah\" to discourage men from trying to restore their foreskins: 'Once established, periah was deemed essential to circumcision; if the mohel failed to cut away enough tissue, the operation was deemed insufficient to comply with God's covenant' and 'Depending on the strictness of individual rabbis, boys (or men thought to have been inadequately cut) were subjected to additional operations.' In addition to \"milah\" (the actual circumcision) and \"priah\", mentioned above, the Talmud mentions a third step, \"metzitzah\", or squeezing some blood from the wound.\n\nThe book \"Abot De-Rabbi Natan\" (\"The Fathers According to Rabbi Nathan\") contains a list of persons from the Israelite Scriptures that were born circumcised:\nAdam, Seth, Noah, Shem, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, the wicked Balaam, Samuel, David, Jeremiah and Zerubbabel. To be born without a foreskin was regarded as the privilege of the most saintly of people, from Adam, \"who was made in the image of God,\" and Moses to Zerubbabel (see Midrash Ab. R. N., ed. Schechter, p. 153; and Talmud, Sotah 12a). Uncircumcision being considered a blemish, circumcision was to remove it, and to render Abraham and his descendants \"perfect\" (Talmud Ned. 31b; Midrash Genesis Rabbah xlvi.)\n\nRabbinic literature holds that one who removes his circumcision has no portion in the world to come (Mishnah Ab. iii. 17; Midrash Sifre, Num. xv. 31; Talmud Sanhedrin 99).\n\nAccording to the Midrash Pirke R. El. xxix., it was Shem who circumcised Abraham and Ishmael on the Day of Atonement; and the blood of the covenant then shed is ever before God on that day to serve as an atoning power. According to the same midrash, Pharaoh prevented the Hebrew slaves from performing the rite, but when the Passover time came and brought them deliverance, they underwent circumcision, and mingled the blood of the paschal lamb with that of the Abrahamic covenant, wherefore (Ezek. xvi. 6) God repeats the words: \"In thy blood live!\"\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, conversion to Judaism for non-Israelites necessitated circumcision (). In the 1st century CE, there was a controversy between the Shammaites and the Hillelites regarding a convert born without a foreskin: the former demanding the spilling of a drop of blood of the covenant; the latter declaring it to be unnecessary.\n\nFlavius Josephus in Jewish Antiquities book 20, chapter 2 recorded the story of King Izates of Adiabene who decided to follow the Law of Moses at the advice of a Jewish merchant named Ananias. He was going to get circumcised, but his mother, Helen, who herself embraced the Jewish customs, advised against it on the grounds that the subjects would not stand to be ruled by someone who followed such \"strange and foreign rites\". Ananias likewise advised against it, on the grounds that worship of God was superior to circumcision (Robert Eisenman in \"James the Brother of Jesus\" claims that Ananias is Paul the Apostle who held similar views) and that God would forgive him for fear of his subjects. So Izates decided against it. However, later, \"a certain other Jew that came out of Galilee, whose name was Eleazar\", who was well versed in the Law, convinced him that he should, on the grounds that it was one thing to read the Law and another thing to practice it, and so he did. Once Helen and Ananias found out, they were struck by great fear of the possible consequences, but as Josephus put it, God looked after Izates. As his reign was peaceful and blessed, Helen visited the Jerusalem Temple to thank God, and since there was a terrible famine at the time, she brought lots of food and aid to the people of Jerusalem.\n\nOn the other hand, the emperor Hadrian (117-138) forbade circumcision. His successor Antoninus Pius (138-161) upheld the decree, but around 140 included an exemption for Jews who circumcised their sons, although not their servants, slaves, or converts. Even before that, in 95 CE, Flavius Clemens, a nephew of the emperors Titus and Domitian, suffered the penalty of death for undergoing circumcision, and embracing the Jewish faith with his wife Domitilla (see Grätz, \"Gesch.\" iv. 403 et seq., 702).\n\nIt can be thus understood why during Early Christian times there existed groups of God-fearers, who were gentiles who shared religious ideas with Jews, to one degree or another, but refused to circumcise, and were not recognized as Jews. It is possible that the view of them is echoed in the Midrash: \"If thy sons accept My Godhead [by undergoing circumcision] I shall be their God and bring them into the land; but if they do not observe My covenant in regard either to circumcision or to the Sabbath, they shall not enter the land of promise\" (Midrash Genesis Rabbah xlvi.). \"The Sabbath-keepers who are not circumcised are intruders, and deserve punishment,\" (Midrash Deut. Rabbah i.)\n\nThe uncompromising Jewish stance that the seal of circumcision might not find its substitute in \"the seal of baptism\" — led the Apostle Paul to urge the latter in opposition to the former (, , and elsewhere), just as he was led to adopt the antinomistic or antinational view, which had its exponents in Alexandria.\n\nCurrently, the issue of circumcising converts remains controversial in Reform and Reconstructionist Judaism and it is not mandatory in either movement.\n\nSubject to overriding medical considerations, the circumcision must take place eight days after the birth of the child, even when this falls on \"Shabbat\". The child must be medically fit for a circumcision to be performed, and Jewish law prohibits parents having their son circumcised if medical doctors hold that the procedure may unduly threaten the child's health (e.g. because of hemophilia). If by reason of the child's debility or sickness the ceremony is postponed, it cannot take place on \"Shabbat\".\n\nIt is the duty of the father to have his child circumcised; and if he fails in this, the beth din of the city must see that the rite is performed. According to traditional Jewish law, in the absence of a grown free Jewish male expert, a woman, a slave, or a child, that has the required skills, is also authorized to perform the circumcision, provided that she or he is Jewish. However, most streams of non-Orthodox Judaism allow female mohels, called \"mohalot\" (, plural of \"mohelet\", feminine of \"mohel\"), without restriction. In 1984, Deborah Cohen became the first certified Reform mohelet; she was certified by the Berit Mila program of Reform Judaism.\n\nHowever important it may be, circumcision is not a sacrament, unlike a Christian baptism. Circumcision does not affect a Jew's Jewish status. A Jew by birth is a full Jew, even if not circumcised. Even so, the punishment for not being circumcised in rabbinic Judaism is believed to be \"Karet\", being cut off; meaning premature death at the hand of G-d (Mo'ed Katan 28a) and a severe spiritual punishment, the \"soul's being cut off,\" and not being granted a share in the world to come (Hilchot Teshuvah 8:1,5).\n\nThe deuterocanonical books and biblical apocrypha reveal the cultural clash between Jews and Greeks, and between Judaizers and Hellenizers. Greeks valued the foreskin, and when they took part in athletic sports, they did it in the nude. They insisted that the glans remained covered, and they did not approve of the Jewish custom of circumcision. The Books of the Maccabees reveal that some Jewish men chose to undergo \"epispasm\", foreskin restoration by stretching the residual skin, so that they could conform to Greek culture and take part in these sports. (). Some also left their sons uncircumcised (). This relatively peaceful period came to an end when Antiochus Epiphanes attacked first Egypt and then sacked and looted Jerusalem (). Epiphanes determined to force everyone to live the Greek way and abandon the Jewish way. Among other things, he banned circumcision.\n\nAlthough many were prepared to conform to Greek culture, observant Jews saw circumcision as a mark of Jewish loyalty and many who kept to the Mosaic Law defied the edict of Antiochus Epiphanes prohibiting circumcision (, , and ). Jewish women showed their loyalty to the Law, even at the risk of their lives, by themselves circumcising their sons. \"For example, two women were brought in for having circumcised their children. They publicly paraded them around the city, with their babies hanging at their breasts, and then hurled them down headlong from the wall ().\" At the same time, the Zealots forcibly circumcised the uncircumcised boys within the borders of Israel ().\n\nIn the upshot, the Jewish Zealots defeated the Greeks and they retained the right to circumcise.\n\nThe Book of Jubilees, part of the Ethiopian Orthodoxbiblical canon, written in the time of John Hyrcanus, reveals the hostility directed against those who abandoned circumcision (xv. 26–27): \"Whosoever is uncircumcised belongs to 'the sons of Belial,' to 'the children of doom and eternal perdition'; for all the angels of the Presence and of the Glorification have been so from the day of their creation, and God's anger will be kindled against the children of the covenant if they make the members of their body appear like those of the Gentiles, and they will be expelled and exterminated from the earth\".\n\nAccording to the Gospel of Thomas saying 53, Jesus says:\nParallels to Thomas 53 are found in Paul's , , , , and .\n\nThe \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" in the article \"Gentiles\", section \"Gentiles May Not Be Taught the Torah\", states:\nToday, most Christian denominations are neutral about biblical male circumcision, neither requiring it nor forbidding it. Circumcision was controversial during the period of Early Christianity (before 325) and the first Church Council in Jerusalem (c.50), which declared that circumcision was not necessary for new gentile converts (a record of the council is found in ). But it is customary among the Coptic, Ethiopian, and Eritrean Orthodox Churches, and also some other African churches. Some Christian churches in South Africa oppose circumcision, viewing it as a pagan ritual, while others, including the Nomiya church in Kenya, require circumcision for membership.\n\nAmong primarily Christian countries, both religious and non religious circumcision is common in countries such as the United States, the Philippines, Australia, and Canada, Circumcision is near universal among Christian countries of Oceania and in North and West Africa and it is common in countries such as Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria and Kenya, and is also widely practiced among Christians from South Korea, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Palestine, Israel, and North Africa. However, circumcision is rare for Christians in the countries of Europe, East Asia, parts of Africa, as well as in India and until recently in Southern Africa. Christians in the East and West Indies (excluding the Philippines) do not practice it either.\nWhile Jesus' circumcision was recorded as having been performed in accordance with Torah requirements in , according to the Acts of the Apostles, chapter 15, the leaders of the Christian Church at the Council of Jerusalem rejected circumcision as a requirement for Gentile converts, possibly the first act of differentiation of Early Christianity from its Jewish roots (see also list of events in early Christianity). The rite of circumcision was especially execrable in Classical civilization because it was the custom to spend an hour a day or so exercising nude in the \"gymnasium\" and in Roman baths, therefore Jewish men did not want to be seen in public deprived of their foreskins. Hellenistic and Roman culture both found circumcision to be cruel and repulsive.\n\nThe Apostle Paul , who called himself \"Apostle to the Gentiles\", attacked the practice, but not consistently; for example in one case he personally circumcised Timothy \"because of the Jews\" that were in town (Timothy had a Jewish Christian mother but a Greek father ). He also appeared to praise its value in , hence the topic of Paul the Apostle and Judaism is still debated. Paul argued that circumcision no longer meant the physical, but a spiritual practice (). And in that sense, he wrote : \"Is any man called being circumcised? let him not become uncircumcised\"—probably a reference to the practice of epispasm. Paul was already circumcised (\"on the eighth day\", ) when he was \"called\". He added: \"Is any called in uncircumcision? let him not be circumcised\", and went on to argue that circumcision did not matter: \"Circumcision is nothing and uncircumcision is nothing. Keeping God's commands is what counts\" ().\n\nLater he more explicitly denounced the practice, rejecting and condemning those who promoted circumcision to Gentile Christians. He accused Galatian Christians who advocated circumcision of turning from the Spirit to the flesh. And in says \"Are you so foolish, that, whereas you began in the Spirit, you would now be made perfect by the flesh?\" He accused circumcision advocates of wanting to make a good showing in the flesh and of glorying or boasting of the flesh .The Pauline epistles fiercely criticized the Judaizers that demanded circumcision for gentile converts, and opposed them; he stressed instead that faith in Christ constituted a \"New Covenant\" with God, a covenant which essentially provides a \"free gift\" of salvation from the harsh edicts of the Mosaic Law for Gentiles that didn't require circumcision.\n\nThe Catholic Encyclopedia's entry on Judaizers notes: \"Paul, on the other hand, not only did not object to the observance of the Mosaic Law, as long as it did not interfere with the liberty of the Gentiles, but he conformed to its prescriptions when occasion required (). Thus he shortly after circumcised Timothy (), and he was in the very act of observing the Mosaic ritual when he was arrested at Jerusalem ( sqq.).\"\n\nSimon Peter, who for Catholic Christians is the first Pope, condemned circumcision for converts according to . Paul, the Apostle to the Gentiles, charged that the advocates of circumcision were \"false brothers\" (). Some Biblical scholars think that the Epistle to Titus, generally attributed to Paul, may state that circumcision should be discouraged among Christians (), although others believe this is merely a reference to Jews. Circumcision was so closely associated with Jewish men that Jewish Christians were referred to as \"those of the circumcision\" () or conversely Christians who were circumcised were referred to as Jewish Christians or Judaizers. These terms (circumcised/uncircumcised) are generally interpreted to mean Jews and Greeks, who were predominate, however it is an oversimplification as 1st century Iudaea Province also had some Jews who no longer circumcised (see Hellenistic Judaism), and some Greeks (see proselytes or Judaizers) and others such as Egyptians, Ethiopians, and Arabs who did.\n\nIn the Gospel of Jesus is reported as giving this response to those who criticized him for healing on the Sabbath: \"If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day?\" This passage has been seen as a comment on the Rabbinic belief that circumcision heals the penis (Jerusalem Bible, note to ) or as a criticism of circumcision. \n\nThe Greek Orthodox Church celebrates the Circumcision of Christ on 1 January, while Orthodox churches following the Julian calendar celebrate it on 14 January. All Orthodox churches consider it a \"Great Feast\". In much of Western Christianity, the Feast of the Circumcision of Christ has been replaced by other commemorations, such as the Solemnity of Mary, Mother of God in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThere are strands of study and research (see P Whelan, F Grewel and E Douglas) which show that certain foreskin conditions (paraphimosis and frenulum breve) when left unacknowledged, and therefore untreated, cause psychosexual problems - especially when mixed with courtship and other individual and environmental factors from childhood - wracking with self-doubt, and leading ultimately to psychosis. Once having successfully overcome the condition(s), however, the effect of the traumas can recur on the birth of a son, and later. This is a dangerous situation and liable to cause much confusion and disturbance, or worse, and provides an explanation of the story of Abraham, covenant of circumcision and the binding of Isaac, i.e. psychosis and foreskin management intention and, ultimately, the saving nature of faith. The conclusions in Acts 15, when logically interpreted (see E Douglas), raises understanding of these adverse anatomical conditions: paraphimosis (symptom: strangling the head of the penis); and slender frenulum breve (symptom: blood from rupture of frenulum blood vessels), and advises avoidance of them. It raises awareness of the issues but carefully refrains from being prescriptive as to the means of management. This allows room for modern methods of management, e.g. frenuloplasty. The psychological effects of these conditions, while little understood, are real, and are visible in literature and art.\n\nHistorically, the Catholic Church denounced religious circumcision for its members in the \"Cantate Domino\", written during the 11th Council of Florence in 1442. This decision was based on the belief that baptism had superseded circumcision (), and may also have been a response to Coptic Christians, who continued to practice circumcision. However, the Church currently maintains a neutral position on the practice of non-religious circumcision,\n\nSome Catholic scholars, such as Fr. John J. Dietzen, a retired priest and columnist, have argued that paragraph number 2297 from the Catholic Catechism (Respect for bodily integrity) makes the practice of elective and neonatal circumcision immoral. John Paul Slosar and Daniel O'Brien, however, argue that the therapeutic benefits of neonatal circumcision are inconclusive, but that recent findings that circumcision may prevent disease puts the practice outside the realm of paragraph 2297. They also argue that statements regarding mutilation and amputation in the \"Respect for bodily integrity\" paragraph are made within the context of kidnapping, hostage taking or torture, and that if circumcision is defined as an amputation, any removal of tissue or follicle, regardless of its effect on functional integrity, could be considered a violation of moral law. The proportionality of harm versus benefit of medical procedures, as defined by Directives 29 and 33 of the Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services (National Conference of Catholic Bishops), have also been interpreted to support and reject the practice of circumcision. These arguments represent the conscience of the individual writers, and not the official stance of the Church. The most recent statement from the Church was that of Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI:\n\nThe Church of Antioch sent Barnabas on a mission with Paul, which became known as the Apostle's first missionary journey . . . Together with Paul, he then went to the so-called Council of Jerusalem where after a profound examination of the question, the Apostles with the Elders decided to discontinue the practice of circumcision so that it was no longer a feature of the Christian identity (cf. Acts 15: 1-35). It was only in this way that, in the end, they officially made possible the Church of the Gentiles, a Church without circumcision; we are children of Abraham simply through faith in Christ.\nWith the exception of the commemoration of the circumcision of Jesus in accordance with \"Jewish\" practice, circumcision has not been part of Catholic practice. According to an epistle of Cyprian of Carthage, circumcision of the flesh was replaced by circumcision of the spirit.\n\nPassages from scriptures connected with the Latter Day Saint movement (Mormons) explain that the \"law of circumcision is done away\" by Christ and thus unnecessary from a religious standpoint.\n\nThe origin of circumcision in Islam is a matter of religious and scholarly debate. It is mentioned in some \"hadith\", but not in the Quran. Some \"fiqh\" scholars state that circumcision is recommended (\"sunnah\"), others that it is obligatory. Some have quoted the \"hadith\" to argue that the requirement of circumcision is based on the covenant with Abraham.\n\nWhereas Jewish circumcision is closely bound by ritual timing and tradition, in Islam there is no fixed age for circumcision. The age when boys get circumcised, and the procedures used, tend to change across cultures, families, and time. In some Muslim-majority countries, circumcision is performed on Muslim boys after they have learned to recite the whole Quran from start to finish. In Malaysia and other regions, the boy usually undergoes the operation between the ages of ten and twelve, and is thus a puberty rite, serving to introduce him into the new status of an adult. The procedure is sometimes semi-public, accompanied with music, special foods, and much festivity.\n\nThere is no equivalent of a Jewish mohel in Islam. Circumcisions are usually carried out in a clinic or hospital. The circumciser is not required to be a Muslim. The position of the scar is usually neither fully \"low\" nor fully \"high\", and the skin left is rather loose. However, due to a relatively secular approach to circumcision in the Muslim world, the \"styles\" of the Islamic circumcision vary on every individual, and change in the light on new medical knowledge.\n\nIn West Africa, infant circumcision had religious significance as a rite of passage or otherwise in the past; today in some non-Muslim Nigerian societies it is medicalised and is simply a cultural norm. In many West African traditional societies circumcision has become medicalised and is simply performed in infancy without ado or any particular conscious cultural significance. Among the Urhobo of southern Nigeria it is symbolic of a boy entering into manhood. The ritual expression, \"Omo te Oshare\" (\"the boy is now man\"), constitutes a rite of passage from one age set to another.\n\nIn East Africa, specifically in Kenya among various so-classified Bantu and Nilotic peoples, such as the Maragoli and Idakho of the Luhya super-ethnic group, the Kikuyu, Kalenjin and Maasai, circumcision is a rite of passage observed collectively by a number of boys every few years, and boys circumcised at the same time are taken to be members of a single age set.\n\nAuthority derives from the age-group and the age-set. Prior to circumcision a natural leader or Olaiguenani is selected; he leads his age-group through a series of rituals until old age, sharing responsibility with a select few, of whom the ritual expert (Oloiboni) is the ultimate authority. Masai youths are not circumcised until they are mature, and a new age-set is initiated together at regular intervals of twelve to fifteen years. The young warriors (Il-Murran) remain initiates for some time, using blunt arrows to hunt small birds which are stuffed and tied to a frame to form a head-dress. Traditionally, among the Luhya, boys of certain age-sets, typically between 8 and 18 years of age would, under the leadership of specific men engage in various rites leading up to the day of circumcision. After circumcision, they would live apart from the rest of society for a certain number of days. Not even their mothers nor sisters would be allowed to see them.\n\nThe Xhosa Tribe from the Eastern Cape in South Africa has a circumcision ritual. The ceremony is part of a transition to manhood. It is called the Abakwetha - \"A Group Learning\". A group of normally five aged between 16-20 go off for three months and live in a special hut (sutu). The circumcision is the climax of the ritual. Nelson Mandela describes his experiences undergoing this ritual in his biography - \"The Long Walk to Freedom\". Traditional circumcisions are often performed in unsterile conditions where no anesthetic is administered; improper treatment of the wound can lead to sepsis and dehydration, which has in the past lead to initiate deaths. New non-surgical technologies, like Prepex, have been introduced to decrease the number of deaths and injuries caused by circumcision practices during initiation ceremonies (and those caused during circumcision for HIV prevention).\n\nSixth Dynasty (2345 - 2181 BC) tomb artwork in Egypt is thought to be the oldest documentary evidence of circumcision, the most ancient depiction being a bas-relief from the necropolis at Saqqara (ca. 2400 B.C) with the inscription reading \"Hold him and do not allow him to faint\". In the oldest written account, by an Egyptian named Uha, in the 23rd century B.C, he describes a mass circumcision and boasts of his ability to stoically endure the pain: \"When I was circumcised, together with one hundred and twenty men...there was none thereof who hit out, there was none thereof who was hit, and there was none thereof who scratched and there was none thereof who was scratched.\"\n\nCircumcision in ancient Egypt was thought to be a mark of passage from childhood to adulthood. The alteration of the body and ritual of circumcision was supposed to give access to ancient mysteries reserved solely for the initiated. The content of those mysteries are unclear but are likely to be myths, prayers, and incantations central to Egyptian religion. The Egyptian Book of the Dead, for example, tells of the sun god Ra performing a self-circumcision, whose blood created two minor guardian deities. Circumcisions were performed by priests in a public ceremony, using a stone blade. It is thought to have been more popular among the upper echelons of the society, although it was not universal and those lower down the social order are known to have had the procedure done.\n\nIn early 2007 it was announced that rural aidpost orderlies in the East Sepik Province of Papua New Guinea are to undergo training in the circumcision of men and boys of all ages with a view to introducing the procedure as a means of prophylaxis against HIV/AIDS, which is becoming a significant problem in the country.\n\nCircumcision is widely practiced by the Druze. The procedure is practiced as a cultural tradition, and has no religious significance in the Druze faith. Male Druze infants are usually circumcised shortly after birth.\n\nThere is no reference to male circumcision in the Hindu holy books, and both Hinduism and Buddhism appear to have a neutral view on circumcision.\nSikh infants are not circumcised.\n\nCircumcision in South Korea is largely the result of American cultural and military influence following the Korean War.\n\nCircumcision is part of initiation rites in some Pacific Islander, and Australian aboriginal traditions in areas such as Arnhem Land, where the practice was introduced by Makassan traders from Sulawesi in the Indonesian Archipelago. The origin of circumcision (\"tuli\") in the Philippines is uncertain. One newspaper article speculates that it is due to the influence of Western colonisation, however, Antonio de Morga's 17th-century \"History of the Philippine Islands\" documents its existence in pre-Colonial Philippines, owing it to Islamic influence. Circumcision ceremonies among certain Australian aboriginal societies are noted for their painful nature, including subincision for some aboriginal peoples in the Western Desert.\n\nIn the Pacific, ritual circumcision is nearly universal in the Melanesian islands of Fiji and Vanuatu; participation in the traditional land diving on Pentecost Island is reserved for those who have been circumcised. Circumcision is also commonly practised in the Polynesian islands of Samoa, Tonga, Niue, and Tikopia. In Samoa, it is accompanied by a celebration. Among some West African animist groups, such as the Dogon and Dowayo, it is taken to represent a removal of \"feminine\" aspects of the male, turning boys into fully masculine males.\n\nDuring the nineteenth and twentieth centuries many Jewish reformers, doctors, and physicians in Central and Eastern Europe proposed to replace circumcision with a symbolic ceremony, while others sought to ban or abolish circumcision entirely, as it was perceived as a dangerous, barbaric and pagan ritual of genital mutilation that could transmit infectious diseases to newborns. The first formal objection to circumcision within Judaism occurred in 1843 in Frankfurt. The Society for the Friends of Reform, a group that criticized traditional Jewish practices, said that brit milah was not a mitzvah but an outworn legacy from Israel's earlier phases, an obsolete throwback to primitive religion. With the expanding role of medicine came further opposition; certain aspects of Jewish circumcision such as \"periah\" and \"metzitzah\" (drawing the blood from the circumcision wound through sucking or a cloth) were deemed unhygienic and dangerous for the newborns. Later evidence that syphilis and tuberculosis – two of the most feared infectious diseases in the 19th century – were spread by mohels, caused various rabbis to advocate \"metzitzah\" to be done using a sponge or a tube. Among the secular, non-observant Jews that chose to not circumcise their sons and keep them intact there was also Theodor Herzl.\nA growing number of contemporary Jews and Intactivist Jewish groups in the United States, United Kingdom, and Israel, both secular and religious, started to question overall long-term effects, psychological and psychophysical consequences of trauma caused by circumcision on Jewish children, and choose not to circumcise their sons. They are assisted by a small number of Reform, Liberal, and Reconstructionist rabbis, and have developed a welcoming ceremony that they call the \"Brit shalom\" (\"Covenant [of] Peace\") for such children, also accepted by Humanistic Judaism.\n\nThis ceremony of \"Brit shalom\" is not officially approved of by the Reform or Reconstructionist rabbinical organizations, who make the recommendation that male infants should be circumcised, though the issue of converts remains controversial and circumcision of converts is not mandatory in either movement.\n\nAn early British opponent of circumcision was Herbert Snow, who wrote a short book called \"The barbarity of circumcision as a remedy for congenital abnormality\" in 1890. But as late as 1936, L. E. Holt, an author of pediatric textbooks, advocated male and female circumcision as a treatment for masturbation.\n\nThe first serious questioning of the practice did not occur until late 1949, when the paediatrician Douglas Gairdner, D. M., published \"The Fate of the Foreskin\" in the British Medical Journal; according to Wallerstein, this began to seriously affect the practice of circumcision in Great Britain. According to Darby and Cox, the persistence of circumcision in the US has led to more vigorous protest movements. A 1980 protest march at the California State Capitol was reported in an Associated Press article. The National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers (NOCIRC), was formed by Marilyn Milos, R.N., in 1985. The organization's stated objective is to secure the birthright of male, female, and intersex children and babies to keep their sex organs intact. Protest rallies have been held in the US and other areas. NOCIRC have consistently criticised the American medical community's circumcision guidelines. According to Milos and Donna Macris, \"The need to defend the baby's right to a peaceful beginning was brought to light by Dr. Frederick Leboyer in his landmark work, \"Birth Without Violence\"\".\n\nThis period also saw the formation of anti-circumcision organizations in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and South Africa. Activists began creating websites in the mid-1990s, and this process has continued to this day. Doctors Opposing Circumcision asserts that genital integrity produces the highest state of health and well-being. Many anti-circumcision groups have joined the International Coalition for Genital Integrity and endorsed its declaration, which was adopted by the First International Symposium on Circumcision, on March 3, 1989, at Anaheim, California (there have been nine such further symposia held since, with the proceedings of several subsequently published in book form). Intact America, founded in 2008, and other organizations such as Genital Autonomy America, the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Civil Liberties Union, and Centers for Disease Control strive to raise public awareness on the biological and sexual functions of the foreskin, alter policy and change attitudes toward male infant circumcision in the United States.\n\nThe anti-circumcision movement, whose members sometimes call themselves \"intactivists\" (a portmanteau of \"intact\" and \"activist\"), strives to prohibit involuntary and forced circumcision internationally. Various organisations have been set up specifically for the purpose, other organisations have stated their support for the movement. Intactivists consider themselves to be an LGBT social movement, and have participated in LGBT pride parades ever since 2006.\n\n\nWorks cited:\nThe rabbinic literature and Converts to Judaism are sections are an evolution of the corresponding article which gives the following\nBibliography:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "821349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=821349", "title": "Roman temple", "text": "Roman temple\n\nAncient Roman temples were among the most important buildings in Roman culture, and some of the richest buildings in Roman architecture, though only a few survive in any sort of complete state. Today they remain \"the most obvious symbol of Roman architecture\". Their construction and maintenance was a major part of ancient Roman religion, and all towns of any importance had at least one main temple, as well as smaller shrines. The main room \"(cella)\" housed the cult image of the deity to whom the temple was dedicated, and often a small altar for incense or libations. Behind the cella was a room or rooms used by temple attendants for storage of equipment and offerings. The ordinary worshipper rarely entered the cella, and most public ceremonies were performed outside, on the portico, with a crowd gathered in the temple precinct.\n\nThe most common architectural plan had a rectangular temple raised on a high podium, with a clear front with a portico at the top of steps, and a triangular pediment above columns. The sides and rear of the building had much less architectural emphasis, and typically no entrances. There were also circular plans, generally with columns all round, and outside Italy there were many compromises with traditional local styles. The Roman form of temple developed initially from Etruscan temples, themselves influenced by the Greeks, with subsequent heavy direct influence from Greece.\n\nPublic religious ceremonies of the official Roman religion took place outdoors, and not within the temple building. Some ceremonies were processions that started at, visited, or ended with a temple or shrine, where a ritual object might be stored and brought out for use, or where an offering would be deposited. Sacrifices, chiefly of animals, would take place at an open-air altar within the \"templum\"; often on one of the narrow extensions of the podium to the side of the steps. Especially under the Empire, exotic foreign cults gained followers in Rome, and were the local religions in large parts of the expanded Empire. These often had very different practices, some preferring underground places of worship, while others, like Early Christians, worshipped in houses.\n\nSome remains of many Roman temples survive, above all in Rome itself, but the relatively few near-complete examples were nearly all converted to Christian churches (and sometimes subsequently to mosques), usually a considerable time after the initial triumph of Christianity under Constantine. The decline of Roman religion was relatively slow, and the temples themselves were not appropriated by the government until a decree of the Emperor Honorius in 415. Santi Cosma e Damiano, in the Roman Forum, originally the Temple of Romulus, was not dedicated as a church until 527. The best known is the Pantheon, Rome, which is however highly untypical, being a very large circular temple with a magnificent concrete roof, behind a conventional portico front.\n\nThe English word \"temple\" derives from the Latin \"templum\", which was originally not the building itself, but a sacred space surveyed and plotted ritually. The Roman architect Vitruvius always uses the word \"templum\" to refer to the sacred precinct, and not to the building. The more common Latin words for a temple or shrine were \"sacellum\" (a small shrine or chapel), \"aedes\", \"delubrum\", and \"fanum\" (in this article, the English word \"temple\" refers to any of these buildings, and the Latin \"templum\" to the sacred precinct).\n\nThe form of the Roman temple was mainly derived from the Etruscan model, but in the late Republic there was a switch to using Greek classical and Hellenistic styles, without much change in the key features of the form. The Etruscans were a people of northern Italy, whose civilization was at its peak in the seventh century BC. The Etruscans were already influenced by early Greek architecture, so Roman temples were distinctive but with both Etruscan and Greek features. Surviving temples (both Greek and Roman) lack the extensive painted statuary that decorated the rooflines, and the elaborate revetments and antefixes, in colourful terracotta in earlier examples, that enlivened the entablature.\n\nEtruscan and Roman temples emphasised the front of the building, which followed Greek temple models and typically consisted of wide steps leading to a portico with columns, a pronaos, and usually a triangular pediment above, which was filled with statuary in the most grand examples; this was as often in terracotta as stone, and no examples have survived except as fragments. Especially in the earlier periods, further statuary might be placed on the roof, and the entablature decorated with antefixes and other elements, all of this being brightly painted. However, unlike the Greek models, which generally gave equal treatment to all sides of the temple, which could be viewed and approached from all directions, the side and rear walls of Roman temples might be largely undecorated (as in the Pantheon, Rome and Vic), inaccessible by steps (as in the Maison Carrée and Vic), and even back on to other buildings. As in the Maison Carrée, columns at the side might be half-columns, emerging from (\"engaged with\" in architectural terminology) the wall.\n\nThe platform on which the temple sat was typically raised higher in Etruscan and Roman examples than Greek, with up to ten, twelve or more steps rather than the three typical in Greek temples; the Temple of Claudius was raised twenty steps. These steps were normally only at the front, and typically not the whole width of that. It might or might not be possible to walk around the temple exterior inside (Temple of Hadrian) or outside the colonnade, or at least down the sides. The description of the Greek models used here is a generalization of classical Greek ideals, and later Hellenistic buildings often do not reflect them. For example, the \"Temple of Dionysus\" on the terrace by the theatre at Pergamon (Ionic, 2nd century BC, on a hillside), had many steps in front, and no columns beyond the portico. The Parthenon, also approached up a hill, probably had many wide steps at the approach to the main front, followed by a flat area before the final few steps.\n\nAfter the eclipse of the Etruscan models, the Greek classical orders in all their details were closely followed in the façades of Roman temples, as in other prestigious buildings, with the direct adoption of Greek models apparently beginning around 200 BC, under the late Republic. But the distinctive differences in the general arrangement of temples between the Etruscan-Roman style and the Greek, as outlined above, were retained. However the idealized proportions between the different elements in the orders set out by the only significant Roman writer on architecture to survive, Vitruvius, and subsequent Italian Renaissance writers, do not reflect actual Roman practice, which could be very variable, though always aiming at balance and harmony. Following a Hellenistic trend, the Corinthian order and its variant the Composite order were most common in surviving Roman temples, but for small temples like that at Alcántara, a simple Tuscan order could be used. Vitruvius does not recognise the Composite or Tuscan orders in his writings, which Renaissance writers formalized from observing surviving buildings.\nThe front of the temple typically carried an inscription saying who had built it, cut into the stone with a \"V\" section. This was filled with brightly coloured paint, usually scarlet or vermilion. In major imperial monuments the letters were cast in lead and held in by pegs, then also painted or gilded. These have usually long vanished, but archaeologists can generally reconstruct them from the peg-holes, and some have been re-created and set in place.\n\nThere was considerable local variation in style, as Roman architects often tried to incorporate elements the population expected in its sacred architecture. This was especially the case in Egypt and the Near East, where different traditions of large stone temples were already millennia old. The Romano-Celtic temple was a simple style, usually with little use of stone, for small temples found in the Western Empire, and by far the most common type in Roman Britain, where they were usually square, with an ambulatory. It often lacked any of the distinctive classical features, and may have had considerable continuity with pre-Roman temples of the Celtic religion.\n\nRomano-Celtic temples were often circular, and circular temples of various kinds were built by the Romans. Greek models were available in \"tholos\" shrines and some other buildings, as assembly halls and various other functions. Temples of the goddess Vesta, which were usually small, typically had this shape, as in those at Rome and Tivoli (see list), which survive in part. Like the Temple of Hercules Victor in Rome, which was perhaps by a Greek architect, these survivors had an unbroken colonnade encircling the building, and a low, Greek-style podium.\n\nDifferent formulae were followed in the Pantheon, Rome and a small temple at Baalbek (usually called the \"Temple of Venus\"), where the door is behind a full portico, though very different ways of doing this are used. In the Pantheon only the portico has columns, and the \"thoroughly uncomfortable\" exterior meeting of the portico and circular cella are often criticised. At Baalbek a wide portico with a broken pediment is matched by four other columns round the building, with the architrave in scooped curving sections, each ending in a projection supported by a column.\n\nAt Praeneste (modern Palestrina) near Rome, a huge pilgrimage complex of the 1st century BC led visitors up several levels with large buildings on a steep hillside, before they eventually reached the sanctuary itself, a much smaller circular building.\n\nA \"caesareum\" was a temple devoted to the Imperial cult. Caesarea were located throughout the Roman Empire, and often funded by the imperial government, tending to replace state spending on new temples to other gods, and becoming the main or only large temple in new Roman towns in the provinces. This was the case at Évora, Vienne and Nîmes, which were all expanded by the Romans as \"coloniae\" from Celtic oppida soon after their conquest. Imperial temples paid for by the government usually used conventional Roman styles all over the empire, regardless of the local styles seen in smaller temples. In newly planned Roman cities the temple was normally centrally placed at one end of the forum, often facing the basilica at the other.\n\nIn the city of Rome, a caesareum was located within the religious precinct of the Arval Brothers. In 1570, it was documented as still containing nine statues of Roman emperors in architectural niches. Most of the earlier emperors had their own very large temples in Rome, but a faltering economy meant that the building of new imperial temples mostly ceased after the reign of Marcus Aurelius (d. 180), though the Temple of Romulus on the Roman Forum was built and dedicated by the Emperor Maxentius to his son Valerius Romulus, who died in childhood in 309 and was deified.\n\nOne of the earliest and most prominent of the caesarea was the Caesareum of Alexandria, located on the harbor. It was begun by Cleopatra VII of the Ptolemaic dynasty, the last pharaoh of Ancient Egypt, to honour her dead lover Julius Caesar, then converted by Augustus to his own cult. During the 4th century, after the Empire had come under Christian rule, it was converted to a church.\n\nThe Etruscan-Roman adaptation of the Greek temple model to place the main emphasis on the front façade and let the other sides of the building harmonize with it only as much as circumstances and budget allow has generally been adopted in Neoclassical architecture, and other classically derived styles. In these temple fronts with columns and a pediment are very common for the main entrance of grand buildings, but often flanked by large wings or set in courtyards. This flexibility has allowed the Roman temple front to be used in buildings made for a wide variety of purposes. The colonnade may no longer be pushed forward with a pronaus porch, and it may not be raised above the ground, but the essential shape remains the same. Among thousands of examples are the White House, Buckingham Palace, and St Peters, Rome; in recent years the temple front has become fashionable in China.\n\nRenaissance and later architects worked out ways of harmoniously adding high raised domes, towers and spires above a colonnaded temple portico front, something the Romans would have found odd. The Roman temple front remains a familiar feature of subsequent Early Modern architecture in the Western tradition, but although very commonly used for churches, it has lost the specific association with religion that it had for the Romans. Generally, later adaptions lack the colour of the original, and though there may be sculpture filling the pediment in grand examples, the full Roman complement of sculpture above the roofline is rarely emulated.\n\nVariations on the theme, mostly Italian in origin, include: San Andrea, Mantua, 1462 by Leon Battista Alberti, which took a four-columned Roman triumphal arch and added a pediment above; San Giorgio Maggiore, Venice, begun 1566, by Andrea Palladio, which has two superimposed temple fronts, one low and wide, the other tall and narrow; the Villa Rotunda, 1567 on, also by Palladio, with four isolated temple fronts on each side of a rectangle, with a large central dome. In Baroque architecture two temple fronts, often of different orders, superimposed one above the other, became extremely common for Catholic churches, often with the uppermost one supported by huge volutes to each side. This can be seen developing in the Gesù, Rome (1584), Santa Susanna, Rome (1597), Santi Vincenzo e Anastasio a Trevi (1646) and Val-de-Grâce, Paris (1645 on).\n\nAn archetypical pattern for churches in Georgian architecture was set by St Martin-in-the-Fields in London (1720), by James Gibbs, who boldly added to the classical temple façade at the west end a large steeple on top of a tower, set back slightly from the main frontage. This formula shocked purists and foreigners, but became accepted and was very widely copied, at home and in the colonies, for example at St Andrew's Church, Chennai in India and St. Paul's Chapel in New York City (1766).\nExamples of modern buildings that stick more faithfully to the ancient rectangular temple form are only found from the 18th century onwards. Versions of the Roman temple as a discrete block include La Madeleine, Paris (1807), now a church but built by Napoleon as a \"Temple de la Gloire de la Grande Armée\" (\"Temple to the Glory of the Great Army\"), the Virginia State Capitol as originally built in 1785–88, and Birmingham Town Hall (1832–34).\n\nSmall Roman circular temples with colonnades have often been used as models, either for single buildings, large or small, or elements such as domes raised on drums, in buildings on another plan such as St Peters, Rome, St Paul's Cathedral in London and the United States Capitol. The great progenitor of these is the Tempietto of Donato Bramante in the courtyard of San Pietro in Montorio in Rome, c. 1502, which has been widely admired ever since.\n\nThough the Pantheon's large circular domed cella, with a conventional portico front, is \"unique\" in Roman architecture, it has been copied many times by modern architects. Versions include the church of Santa Maria Assunta in Ariccia by Gian Lorenzo Bernini (1664), which followed his work restoring the Roman original, Belle Isle House (1774) in England, and Thomas Jefferson's library at the University of Virginia, The Rotunda (1817–26). The Pantheon was much the largest and most accessible complete classical temple front known to the Italian Renaissance, and was the standard exemplar when these were revived.\n\nThe Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus on the Capitoline Hill was the oldest large temple in Rome, dedicated to the Capitoline Triad consisting of Jupiter and his companion deities, Juno and Minerva, and had a cathedral-like position in the official religion of Rome. It was destroyed by fire three times, and rapidly rebuilt in contemporary styles. The first building, traditionally dedicated in 509 BC, has been claimed to have been almost , much larger than other Roman temples for centuries after, although its size is heavily disputed by specialists. Whatever its size, its influence on other early Roman temples was significant and long-lasting. The same may have been true for the later rebuildings, though here the influence is harder to trace.\n\nFor the first temple Etruscan specialists were brought in for various aspects of the building, including making and painting the extensive terracotta elements of the entablature or upper parts, such as antefixes. But for the second building they were summoned from Greece. Rebuildings after destruction by fire were completed in 69 BC, 75 AD, and in the 80s AD, under Domitian – the third building only lasted five years before burning down again. After a major sacking by Vandals in 455, and comprehensive removal of stone in the Renaissance, only foundations can now be seen, in the basement of the Capitoline Museums. The sculptor Flaminio Vacca (d 1605) claimed that the life-size Medici lion he carved to match a Roman survival, now in Florence, was made from a single capital from the temple.\n\nMost of the best survivals had been converted to churches (and sometimes later mosques), which some remain. Often the porticos were walled in between the columns, and the original cella front and side walls largely removed to create a large single space in the interior. Rural areas in the Islamic world have some good remains, which had been left largely undisturbed. In Spain some remarkable discoveries (Vic, Cordoba, Barcelona) were made in the 19th century when old buildings being reconstructed or demolished were found to contain major remains encased in later buildings. In Rome, Pula, and elsewhere some walls incorporated in later buildings have always been evident. The squared-off blocks of temple walls have always been attractive for later builders to reuse, while the large pieces of massive columns were less easy to remove and make use of; hence the podium, minus facing, and some columns are often all that remain. In most cases loose pieces of stone have been removed from the site, and some such as capitals may be found in local museums, along with non-architectural items excavated, such as terracotta votive statuettes or amulets, which are often found in large numbers. Very little indeed survives in place from the significant quantities of large sculpture that originally decorated temples.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2224879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224879", "title": "Russian Old-Orthodox Church", "text": "Russian Old-Orthodox Church\n\nThe Russian Old Orthodox Church () is an Eastern Orthodox Church of the Old Believers tradition, born of a schism within the Russian Orthodox Church (\"raskol\") during the 17th century (Old Believers). This jurisdiction incorporated those Old Believer groups which refused to accept the authority of Belokrinitskaya Hierarchy, est. 1846 (see Russian Orthodox Old-Rite Church). It was also known as Novozybkov Hierarchy (by the name of the city where its chief hierarch resided in 1963–2000). It is considered to be independent of the Eastern Orthodox Communion i.e. it is not recognised by the Patriarch of Constantinople, nor by any of the Orthodox churches in communion with the Patriarch.\n\nFrom 1963 until 2002, the official title of its chief hierarch was \"Archbishop of Novozybkov, Moscow and all Russia\". In 2000, with the move of the Archbishop's residence to Moscow, the toponym Novozybkov was dropped from the title. Since March 2003, the official title of the church leader is \"Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia\". The current head of the Church is Patriarch Alexander (Kalinin; since 9 May 2000, Patriarch since 3 March 2003) .\n\nThe Russian Old Orthodox Church was formed from the groups of Old Believers who insisted on preserving the traditional church structure and hierarchy (as opposed to Bespopovtsy groups), but refused to accept the authority of Metropolitan Amvrosii (Popovitch) who converted in 1846 and founded the Belokrinitskaya Hierarchy, due to some canonical problems with his conversion and the ordination of its second bishop, Kiril (Amvrosii ordained him alone, which was against canons). \nThese Old Believers groups continued to exist without a bishop until 1923 when they created their own hierarchy, by receiving the Renovationist Archbishop Nikola (Pozdnev) of Saratov (1853–1934). He was received (like Amvrosii in 1846) by chrismation on November 4, 1923 and given a title \"Archbishop of Moscow, Saratov and all old Orthodox Christians of Russia\". Some problems with Nikola's installation and with the 'validity' of this jurisdiction in general was that the Renovationist Church was a schism from the Russian Orthodox Church and archbishop Nikola, together with other Renovationist clergy was officially suspended from all priestly functions by the Council of Bishops under Patriarch Tikhon (Bellavin) in 1923. Also, some Old Believers had doubts whether Nikola was baptized by infusion rather than triple immersion (see Baptism). These doubts were rejected by the Moscow Council of the Old-Orthodox Church in May 1924.\n\nIn order to avoid the same \"error\" which they thought the leaders of the Belokrinitskaya Hierarchy had made, Archbishop Nikola did not ordain any new bishops single handedly – not until the conversion of another bishop from the Russian Orthodox Church, Stephan (Rastorguev), in September 1929. Four more bishops were ordained in subsequent years. Like many other Christian Churches in Soviet Russia, the Old-Orthodox Church suffered heavy persecution from atheistic authorities. One of the outcomes of these conditions was the frequent migration of the see of its first hierarch: Moscow (1924–1955); Kuibyshev – now Samara (1955–1963); Novozybkov (in Bryansk region) (1963–2000). In 2000, the residence was moved back to Moscow.\n\nIn the 1990s, several bishops separated from the central administration of the Russian Old-Orthodox Church, forming two schismatic ecclesiastical bodies:\nSince the 1990s, some of these schismatic bishops restored communion with the Russian Old-Orthodox Church, but the two churches these schisms created still exist.\n\nIn 2003, in a highly controversial move, the leaders of the Old-Orthodox Church resolved to \"restore\" the patriarchate in the \"Russian Church\", thus setting up a rival Patriarchate of Moscow in opposition to the Patriarch Aleksy II (Ridiger), the head of the Russian Orthodox Church. This act was bound to complicate the relationship with the Russian Orthodox Church and another Old Believer Church claiming to be the authentic Russian hierarchy – the Belokrinitskaya Hierarchy or Russian Orthodox Old-Rite Church, and until this day, these three churches are officially not in communion with each other.\n\nThe Holy Council is the highest legislative body, which elects the Patriarch and the members of the Chief Ecclesiastical Council. Today, the Old-Orthodox Church has six hierarchs and about more than 10 parishes on the former Soviet Union territory and four parishes in Romania (as of 1996).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43653467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43653467", "title": "Sachkhoj Academy", "text": "Sachkhoj Academy\n\nSachkhoj Academy(ਸਚੁ ਖੋਜ ਅਕੈਡਮੀ) is a non profitable Sikh academical institution started by Dharam Singh(b. 1936), a Nihang Singh theologian, preacher and writer, known for his exegesis of Adi Granth and Dasam Granth. He worked as a secretary in Budha Dal, under Baba Chet Singh Nihang. The academy was started in 1996 at Khanna , where classes are delivered on the exegesis of various compositions of Adi Granth, Dasam Granth and various topics of Sikhism and other religions. Academy has uploaded enormous amount of audio and video lectures on the internet with expositions of various Compositions of Aad and Dasam granth. It provides platform for independent researchers of Gurbani to perform unbiased research , and learning to use the Adi Granth dictionary lexical resource for the exegesis.\n\nThe academy has also produced various articles on different concepts of Gurmat, that have been published by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and other publications like Missionary Sedhan, Sikh Virsa etc. Dharam Singh's work has been translated to German Language in form of an article titled, Human Rights in Sikh Religion, which is published in book Human Rights in World Context. Academy has also published two books on the exegesis of Japji Sahib and Sidh Gosti, the compositions of Guru Nanak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53885809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53885809", "title": "Saint Gordianus (commemorated 13 September)", "text": "Saint Gordianus (commemorated 13 September)\n\nSaint Gordianus (commemorated 13 September), who with several companions was martyred in Pontus or Galatia.\n"}
{"id": "884220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884220", "title": "Samodiva (folklore)", "text": "Samodiva (folklore)\n\nSamodivas, Samovilas or Vilas are woodland fairies or nymphs found in South and West Slavic folklore. In Romania, they are known as Iele. \n\nThe words \"samodiva\" and \"samovila\" have Indo-European roots meaning \"divinity\", \"rave\", \"wild\", or \"rage\".\n\nSamodivas are commonly depicted as ethereal maidens with long, loose hair, and in some cases, wings. They are typically dressed in free-flowing, feathered white gowns, which give them the power of flight. Samodivas are often described as blonde, tall, slender women with pale, glowing skin and fiery eyes.\n\nAccording to folklore, Samodivas can live inside trees or abandoned shacks or dark caves, or near rivers, ponds and wells. Mountains linked to the Samodivas include Vitosha, Belasitsa, Pirin, Rila, Rodopi, the Balkan Mountains in Bulgaria and Rudina mountains. However, mountain Pirin is their traditional favorite. Samodivas enter the human world during the spring, staying until autumn. During the winter, they live in the mythical village of Zmajkovo.\n\nSamodivas are believed to be very beautiful women with an affinity for fire. They have the power to bring about drought, burn a farmer's crops, or make cattle die of high fever. It is said that, when angered, a Samodiva can change her appearance and turn into a monstrous bird, capable of throwing fire at her enemies. This, with the power of their seductive voices, makes them somewhat similar to Harpies in Greek mythology. Their vindictive nature also complements this notion. \n\nThey are usually hostile and dangerous to people. Men who gaze upon a Samodiva fall instantly in love (or at least in lust), and women take their own lives at the sight of such beauty. Sometimes a Samodiva would seduce a man, commonly a shepherd or a trespasser in her forest, and take him for her lover. However, in doing so, she would take all of his life energy. The man would then become obsessed with the Samodiva and chase her relentlessly, unable to think of anything else. The Samodiva, fueled by the energy stolen from her admirer, would then proceed to torture the man until he died of exhaustion.\n\nAnother important aspect of the myths surrounding Samodivas is their dance. Beginning at midnight and finishing at dawn, their dance symbolized the raw energy of both nature and the supernatural world. Accompanied and following only the rhythm of the wind and their own singing, their dance was said to have been often witnessed by lost or late travelers, some of them choosing to join it, seduced by the beauty of their song and visage, only to die of exhaustion at dawn, when the Samodivas finally disappeared.\n\nMuch like the Vila in Slavic folklore, a Samodiva's power is believed to come mostly from her long (usually blond) hair. A Samodiva would sometimes give a small portion of it to her lover to strengthen her control over him via its magical effects. However, if her hair is damaged in some way, she will either disappear entirely or be stripped of her powers and beauty.\n\nIn Bulgarian folklore, a Samodiva's close connection to the forest makes her knowledgeable about magical herbs and cures for all illnesses. It is said that if a person managed to eavesdrop on a gathering of Samodivas he could also gain knowledge of these remedies. In many stories, this is exactly what the hero is forced to do to save a loved one, as a Samodiva would never share her secrets willingly. \n\nBalkan mythology holds that Samodivas were the daughters of Lamia. This, combined with their mostly nocturnal nature, leads to them being considered negative, or at best neutral in their nature.\n\nEarliest written evidence of Samodivas dates back to the 13th century, where they presumably developed from Balkan traditions and myths. Researchers have also found influences from other Slavic folklore. It is widely believed that the image of the Samodiva and their behavior is actually based on ancient Thracian legends, especially those connected to the Cult of Orpheus, which included songs and dances performed by fire-priestesses.\n\nIn Bulgarian and Serbian folklore, \"Vila Samodiva\" (or \"Vila Samovila\") is used to describe the Samodiva maiden who leads the others in their dances. She is usually the active participant of the contact between the protagonist of folktales and the mystical world, serving as a guide or giving the hero a task to test his valour and resolve.\n\nIn one folk tale, Vila found Prince Marko as an infant and brought him up as a foster mother. As Marko grew on Samodiva milk, he acquired supernatural powers.\n\nIn the 19th century, Bulgarian poet and revolutionary Hristo Botev mentioned Samodivas in a poem praising the late Voivoda Hadzhi Dimitar. The Samodivas provide comfort to the dying man in the last moments of his life, symbolizing bravery. They also appear to symbolize the union between him and the land he sacrificed himself to protect. Still, the Samodivas and the reaction of Hadzhi Dimitar to their presence is connected to the mischievous and seductive role they often play in mythology.\n"}
{"id": "6827255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6827255", "title": "Siddhashila", "text": "Siddhashila\n\nSiddhashila is an area in Jain cosmology at the apex of the universe, which is where the Jains believe people who have become \"arihants\", or people with infinite knowledge, go after they die and attain \"moksha\". Such people are called \"siddhas\" after they discard their mortal body, hence the origin of the term.\n\n"}
{"id": "52626341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52626341", "title": "Sikhism in Bangladesh", "text": "Sikhism in Bangladesh\n\nSikhism in Bangladesh dates back to 1503 but has declined after the partition. Most of the Sikhs in the country are officials of Indian High Commission or pilgrims. There were eighteen historical Gurdwaras in Bangladesh but now only seven are left.\n\nSikhism first emerged in Bengal when Guru Nanak visited Bangladesh in 1504 and established a number of Gurdwaras. Gurdwara Nanak Shahi (Bengali: গুরুদুয়ারা নানকশাহী) is the principal Sikh Gurdwara (prayer hall) in Dhaka, Bangladesh. It is located at the campus of the University of Dhaka and considered to be the biggest of the 7 Gurdwaras in the country. After the Partition of India, the Sikh community left for India. After the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 and Bangladesh Liberation War, Indian Sikh soldiers helped renovate the Gudwaras left in Bangladesh.\n"}
{"id": "25045671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25045671", "title": "Sky Ferreira", "text": "Sky Ferreira\n\nSky Tonia Ferreira (born July 8, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter, model, and actress. As a teenager, Ferreira began uploading videos on Myspace of herself singing songs she had written, which led to her discovery by producers Bloodshy & Avant and an eventual recording contract with Parlophone in 2009. She released her first extended play, \"As If!\", in 2011, which combined elements of electropop and dance music. Ferreira's second extended play \"Ghost\" (2012), however, incorporated pop with more stripped-down song structures and featured collaborations with Jon Brion and Shirley Manson, as well as the critically acclaimed track \"Everything Is Embarrassing\", which she composed with Dev Hynes.\n\nAfter multiple delays and disputes with her record label, Ferreira's debut studio album \"Night Time, My Time\" was released on October 29, 2013, and marked a departure from her former style, incorporating more experimental indie rock with synth-pop elements. The album was preceded by its lead single \"You're Not the One\". That year, she ventured into the film industry after appearing in Eli Roth's \"The Green Inferno\" and garnered media attention after being arrested for drug possession. She was exposed to a mainstream audience after having been announced as an opening act for the international Bangerz Tour, headlined by Miley Cyrus, which began on February 14, 2014.\n\nFerreira's earlier work incorporated elements of dance-pop, while her recent projects experiment with acoustic, new wave and primarily indie rock musical styles. Her lyrical content originally incorporated themes of rebellion and teenage romance, and has since evolved to discuss personal insecurities and more mature romantic themes. Outside her work in the entertainment industry, she has modeled for several brands and magazines, including serving as the spokeswoman for the hair care brand Redken in 2014.\n\nSky Tonia Ferreira was born on July 8, 1992 in Venice Beach, Los Angeles, California. Ferreira's heritage is Brazilian and Portuguese.\n\nFerreira was largely raised by her grandmother, who had been Michael Jackson's personal hairstylist for over 30 years. She commented, saying: \"I was raised around him, I always saw him [and] had holidays with him and stuff like that\", adding that she was unaware of his fame until she was 13 years old. Ferreira expressed interest in singing as a child and, with Jackson's encouragement, Ferreira's grandmother enrolled her in opera lessons. Ferreira has stated that she was sexually assaulted in her adolescence twice, firstly involving a neighbor, and secondly in an incident that involved a stranger who had broken into her home. In an interview with \"Rookie\", Ferreira said: \"I've never said anything [about this publicly] because I don't want it to define me, but I feel like it's appropriate to say something [here]. People feel like it defines you, and it doesn't. It's really unfortunate and disgusting and traumatizing, but it doesn't make you who you are.\" Ferreira dropped out of high school after completing her sophomore year.\n\nFerreira later began maintaining a Myspace profile where she uploaded demo versions of self-written tracks. Shortly before her 15th birthday, she wrote a letter to producers Bloodshy & Avant requesting that they offer a recording contract to her, which she says happened \"kind of right off the bat\" after they came across her profile. In 2009, she was signed to Parlophone, and began finalizing the debut studio album that she says was first begun when she was 14 years old. In 2010, she ventured into the film and modelling industries after starring in the independent film \"Putty Hill\" and appearing in the magazines \"Dazed\" and \"Interview\".\n\nAfter releasing the tracks \"17\" and \"One\", the latter having peaked at number 64 on the UK Singles Chart, Ferreira announced that her debut studio album would be released on January 11, 2011. Its lead single \"Obsession\" peaked at number 37 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Songs chart. These plans never came to fruition, and were substituted for the extended play (EP) \"As If!\" and its lead single \"Sex Rules\" that March. A writer for MuuMuse spoke favorably of her \"vocal and musical versatility\" and commended the project as a \"rock solid 5-track collection of next-level crunchy pop cuts.\" During this time, Ferreira was featured in the advertising campaign for the Calvin Klein \"CK One\" product line alongside Cassie Ventura. The following year, she was photographed by Ellen von Unwerth for the cover of \"Vs.\", and appeared in the Adidas \"Originals\" commercial with rappers Big Sean and Snoop Dogg.\n\nIn November 2011, Ferreira announced that her debut studio album would be released in 2012, with a lead single planned to precede its release that February. She was later revealed to have been working with Jon Brion, Greg Kurstin, and Shirley Manson on the project. In early 2012, Ferreira revealed \"Wild at Heart\" as the title of her record, and confirmed \"24 Hours\" and \"Swamp Girl\" for its track listing. \"Lost in My Bedroom\", described by Ferreira as \"the most electro pop [song] on the album\", surfaced online that March. After releasing the music video for the track \"Red Lips\" in June, she stated that she renamed the record \"I'm Not Alright\".\n\nWith her debut studio album still unreleased, Ferreira announced that her second extended play \"Ghost\" would be released in October. It respectively peaked at numbers 8 and 71 on the US \"Billboard\" Top Heatseekers and Alternative Albums component charts to the \"Billboard\" 200. Its second single \"Everything is Embarrassing\" was described by Katherine St. Asaph of Pitchfork as the track where Ferreira \"could well have her breakout moment\", complimenting it for beginning with \"snappy, crisply sung dance-pop about long-awaited moments\" and eventually transitioning into \"what should be a buoyant chorus\". In her debut television performance, Ferreira performed the track on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\" in January 2013. The previously leaked track \"Lost in My Bedroom\" was included on \"Ghost\", and was featured on an episode of ABC's \"Grey's Anatomy\" in December.\n\nIn June 2013, Ferreira starred in the short film \"IRL\" playing Angel, which has been described as \"an eye-opening look into the reality of young life in New York\". That month, she again renamed her debut studio album \"I Will\", and stated that it would be released \"later this summer\". She noted that it would be composed of \"ten up-tempo songs, all still pretty electronic, although for some reason it comes across more pop-rocky live.\" It was again renamed \"Night Time, My Time\", and announced to be released on October 29, 2013, by Capitol Records. Upon its release, it received favorable reviews from music critics; at Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 79, which indicates \"generally favorable reviews\", based on 30 reviews. \"Rolling Stone\" listed it as the fifth-best debut album of 2013, noting its potent blending of synth-pop elements with a more grunge-inspired indie rock sound. The album was also listed as the 25th best overall album of the year by Complex. The record debuted at number 45 on the US \"Billboard\" 200. \"You're Not the One\" was released as the lead single from \"Night Time, My Time\" on September 24, 2013.\n\nIn September, Ferreira starred as Kaycee in the independent film \"The Green Inferno\". In the early morning of September 14, she and her boyfriend, DIIV frontman Zachary Cole Smith, were arrested at a traffic stop in Saugerties, New York for drug possession. Ferreira, who was in possession of ecstasy tablets, was arrested on drug possession and resisting arrest; Smith was in possession of heroin. She bailed herself out. In October, Ferreira cancelled the final week of her tour with Vampire Weekend after sustaining a hemorrhage to her vocal cords, which she later added was caused by a vocal node that was repeatedly misdiagnosed as laryngitis. In November, Ferreira and Icona Pop were announced as the opening acts for Miley Cyrus' Bangerz Tour, which began on February 14, 2014. Later that month, she released her third extended play, \"Night Time, My Time: B-Sides Part 1\". In December, Ferreira was announced as the spokeswoman for hair care brand Redken.\n\nOn February 20, 2014, during the third performance opening for the Bangerz Tour, Ferreira fell and split open her shin onstage. After completing the performance, Ferreira was taken by ambulance to an Anaheim hospital and treated with 60 stitches. As a result of the injury, she was forced to temporarily pull out of support for the tour, but returned shortly after. On November 20, 2014, while on her North American tour, Ferreira debuted a new track called \"Guardian\".\n\nOn July 16, 2014, Ferreira announced via Twitter that she was working on her second album. She described the sound of the album as \"more aggressive\" and is working with Ariel Rechtshaid and Justin Raisen, with whom she produced \"Night Time, My Time\", as well as Bobby Gillespie and Andrew Innes of Scottish band Primal Scream. Ferreira also expressed the wish to collaborate with Gesaffelstein. She also appeared in the 2016 comedy-drama film \"Elvis & Nixon\", directed by Liza Johnson, and \"The Trust\", which stars Nicolas Cage and Elijah Wood, and is directed by Benjamin and Alex Brewer.\n\nFerreira confirmed on April 7, 2015, that her upcoming second studio album will be titled \"Masochism\". On May 12, 2015, the singer announced that she would be releasing a film co-written and directed by her frequent collaborator Grant Singer accompanied by a new single with the album scheduled to be released later in the year. Jimmy Choo revealed on June 4 that Ferreira would be the face of their newest fragrance named Illicit. She collaborated with Primal Scream on the song \"Where the Light Gets In\", which was released on February 1, 2016 as the lead single from the band's eleventh studio album, \"Chaosmosis\". It was announced on April 25, 2016, that Ferreira would guest-star in the 2017 sequel to David Lynch's 1990s television series \"Twin Peaks\". In October 2016, she was cast in Jonas Åkerlund's upcoming film \"Lords of Chaos\", based on the 1998 book of the same name by Michael Moynihan and Didrik Søderlind.\n\nFerreira appeared in Edgar Wright's 2017 heist film \"Baby Driver\", portraying the mother of lead character Baby (played by Ansel Elgort). She also contributed a cover of the Commodores song \"Easy\" to the film's soundtrack, produced by Nigel Godrich. On December 23, 2017, Ferreira announced plans to release a visual EP in 2018 before \"Masochism\". \"It's an EP that is heavily visual, and the videos will all connect to each other in an abstract way\", Ferreira told \"The Fader\", adding, \"It'll be starting to come out in February, or March, for sure.\"\n\nFerreira is primarily a synth-pop singer, also being described as dance-pop, indie pop, indie rock, alternative rock, and art pop. Her earlier work incorporated elements of dance-pop and electropop, most notably seen in tracks from \"As If!\" and \"Ghost\". The latter EP also includes elements of acoustic and new wave. Her lyrical content originally incorporated themes of rebellion and teenage romance; Andrew Unterberger from Popdust opined that \"17\" plays the girl-gone-wild tale as a near-horror story, clearly meant to shock and upset\", while noting that \"One\" \"instead features a robo'd out Sky bemoaning the breakdown of connection in a relationship, and her own inability to feel anything as a result.\" As her career progressed, Ferreira more frequently experimented with elements of indie rock, which were commonly heard in her first album \"Night Time, My Time\". Ferreira's vocal range has been described as that of a contralto.\n\nJulianne Escobedo Shepberd from \"Rolling Stone\" wrote that Ferreira's \"songs are catchy, but they're also thickly glazed with fuzz and synths, evoking influences like Suicide, Siouxsie Sioux and the krautrock group Harmonia\". Karolina Ramos from \"The GW Hatchet\" compared Ferreira to New Zealand recording artist Lorde, both of whom she felt \"tackle contemporary love, desire and insecurity with depth, composure and frankness.\" She compared her musical style to 1980s pop music, and noted that \"her throaty, sultry vocals call to mind Lana del Rey, abandoning brightness and vivacity for a colder tone. Still, Ferreira can drop the edge, with gentler tracks like \"Sad Dream\" showcasing her vocal range and seldom-observed softness.\" Andrew Unterberger stated that \"through a variety of singles, EPs, guest features and live appearances, Sky has proven herself one of the most talented singers, creative songwriters and savvy collaborators currently working in the genre\", but blamed \"bad marketing, label disputes and her own perfectionism\" for the extended delay of \"Night Time, My Time\"; he also stated that the repeated renaming of the record itself \"should give you some idea of the musical identity issues she's suffered over the years.\"\n\nAfter establishing a friendship with singer Miley Cyrus in 2013, Gregory E. Miller from the \"New York Post\" noted that the media and general public would continue \"following her every move\". Ferreira commented that \"[Miley's] obviously way bigger and all eyes [are] on her, but I feel like we're kind of going through a similar thing where everyone's trying to say that we're trying to make ourselves objects, but really, everyone else is making it more like that—sensationalizing sex and reading into things. It's nice to have someone that gets it.\" Ferreira had also generated a minor controversy after appearing topless on the cover for \"Night Time, My Time\", to which she responded \"there's nothing about that photo that's pornographic; we came on this earth nude.\" Ferreira is also a feminist, which has influenced her work; she has said \"I feel like I'm doing a bad job of being a feminist if I'm not making someone angry.\"\nFerreira has cited Madonna, Prince, Fiona Apple, The Jesus and Mary Chain, Gwen Stefani, Sonic Youth, Alice Cooper, Nancy Sinatra, Cat Power, Blondie, Hole, Elliott Smith, Kate Bush, My Bloody Valentine, Carly Simon, Françoise Hardy, Britney Spears, and The Runaways as musical influences.\n\nIn July 2014, Ferreira performed at the Music Hall of Williamsburg in New York City to benefit the David Lynch Foundation. Ferreira announced that the funds raised would \"go towards Transcendental Meditation (TM) programs for at-risk students; veterans with PTSD; women who are survivors of domestic violence; American Indians suffering from diabetes; the homeless and incarcerate.\" Of her own practice she said, \"TM sort of saved my life.\" In support of the Dakota Access Pipeline protests, Ferreira performed at a benefit concert titled We Rock with Standing Rock in December 2016.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33251782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33251782", "title": "The Binding of Isaac (video game)", "text": "The Binding of Isaac (video game)\n\nThe Binding of Isaac is an indie roguelike video game designed by Edmund McMillen and Florian Himsl, initially released in 2011 for Microsoft Windows; the game was later ported for OS X, and Linux operating systems. The game's title and plot are inspired by the Biblical story of the Binding of Isaac. In the game, Isaac's mother receives a message from God demanding the life of her son as proof of her faith, and Isaac flees into the monster-filled basement of their home where he must fight to survive. Players control Isaac or one of six other unlockable characters through a procedurally generated dungeon in a roguelike manner, fashioned after those of \"The Legend of Zelda\", defeating monsters in real-time combat while collecting items and power-ups to defeat bosses and eventually Isaac's mother.\n\nThe game was the result of a week-long game jam between McMillen and Himsl to develop a \"The Legend of Zelda\"-inspired roguelike that allowed McMillen to showcase his feelings about both positive and negative aspects of religion that he had come to discover from conflicts between his Catholic and born again Christian family members while growing up. McMillen had considered the title a risk but one he could take after the financial success of \"Super Meat Boy\", and released it without much fanfare to Steam in September 2011, not expecting many sales. The game soon gained popularity partially as a result of various Let's Play videos showcasing the title. McMillen and Himsl released an expansion \"Wrath of the Lamb\" in May 2012, but were limited from further expansion due to limitations with the Flash platform. They had started working with Nintendo in 2012 to release a 3DS version, but Nintendo later backed out of the deal, citing controversy over the game's religious themes.\n\nDeveloper Nicalis worked with McMillen in 2014 to complete a remake of the game, \"\", bringing additional features that McMillen had planned that exceeded Flash's limitation, as well as to improve the game's graphics and enable ports for other systems beyond personal computers, including PlayStation 4 and Vita, Xbox One, Wii U, Nintendo 3DS, and the Nintendo Switch. McMillen is working with James Id to develop \"The Legend of Bum-bo\", which will serve as a prequel to \"The Binding of Isaac\".\n\n\"The Binding of Isaac\" has been well-received, with critics praising the game's roguelike nature to encourage repeated playthroughs. By July 2014, McMillen reported over 3 million copies had been sold. The game has been said to contribute to renewed interest in the roguelike genre from both players and developers.\n\n\"The Binding of Isaac\" is a top-down dungeon crawler game, presented using two-dimensional sprites, in which the player controls Isaac or other unlockable characters as they explore the dungeons located in Isaac's basement. The characters differ in speed, amount of health, amount of damage they deal, and other attributes. The game's mechanics and presentation is similar to the dungeons of \"The Legend of Zelda\", while incorporating random, procedurally-generated levels in the manner of a roguelike game. On each floor of the basement dungeon, the player must fight monsters in a room before continuing onto the next room. This is most commonly done by the character's tears as bullets in the style of a twin-stick shooter, but the player can also use a limited supply of bombs to damage enemies and clear out parts of the room. Other methods of defeating enemies become possible as the character gains power-ups, items that are automatically worn by the player-character when picked up that can alter the character's core attributes, such as increasing health or the strength of each tear, or cause additional side effects, such as for allowing charged tear shots to be fired after holding down a controller button for a short while, or a means to fire tears behind the character. Power-ups include passive items that improve the character's attributes automatically, active power-ups that can be used once before they are recharged by completing additional rooms in the dungeon, and single-use power-ups such as pills or Tarot cards that confer a one-time benefit when used, such as regaining full health, or increasing or decreasing all attributes of the character. The effect of power-ups stack, so that the player may come into highly-beneficial power-up combinations.\n\nOnce a room is cleared of monsters, it will remain clear, allowing the player to re-trace their way through the level, though once they move onto the next level, they cannot return. Along the way, the player can collect money to buy power-ups from shopkeepers, keys to unlock special treasure rooms, and new weapons and power-ups to strengthen their chances against the enemies. The player's health is tracked by a number of hearts; if the character loses all their hearts, the game ends in permadeath and the player must start over from a freshly-generated dungeon. Each floor of the dungeon includes a boss which the player must defeat before continuing to the next level. On the sixth of eight floors, the player fights Isaac's mother; after defeating her, Isaac crawls into her womb. Later levels are significantly harder, culminating in a fight against the heart of Isaac's mother on the eighth floor. An optional ninth floor, Sheol contains the boss Satan. Winning the game with certain characters or by certain conditions unlocks new power-ups that might appear in the dungeon or the ability to use one of the other characters. The game tracks the various power-ups that the player has found over time which can be reviewed from the game's menus.\n\n\"The Binding of Isaac\"s plot is very loosely inspired by the biblical story of the same name. Isaac, a child, and his mother live in a small house on a hill, both happily keeping to themselves, with Isaac drawing pictures and playing with his toys, and his mother watching Christian broadcasts on television. Isaac's mother then hears \"a voice from above\", stating her son is corrupted with sin, and needs to be saved. It asks her to remove all that was evil from Isaac, in an attempt to save him. His mother obliges, taking away his toys, drawings, and even his clothes.\n\nThe voice once again speaks to Isaac's mother, stating that Isaac must be cut off from all that is evil in the world. Once again, his mother obliges, and locks Isaac inside his room. Once more, the voice speaks to Isaac's mother. It states she has done well, but it still questions her devotion, and tells her to sacrifice her son. She obliges, grabbing a butcher's knife from the kitchen and walking to Isaac's room. Isaac, watching through a sizable crack in his door, starts to panic. He finds a trapdoor hidden under his rug and jumps in, just before his mother opens his bedroom door. Isaac then puts the paper he was drawing onto his wall, which becomes the title screen.\n\nDuring the game's loading points, Isaac is shown curled up in a ball, crying. His thoughts are visible, ranging among rejection from his mother and humiliation from his peers to a scenario involving his own death. The game features 13 possible endings, one after each major boss fight.\n\n\"The Binding of Isaac\" was developed following the release of \"Super Meat Boy\", which McMillen considered a significant risk and a large time effort. When \"Super Meat Boy\" was released to both critical praise and strong sales, he felt that he no longer had to worry about the consequences of taking risks with his finances supported by its sales. He also considered he could take further risk with the concept.\n\n\"The Binding of Isaac\"s main concept was the result of a weeklong game jam that McMillen had with Florian Himsl; at the time, his co-contributor on \"Super Meat Boy\", Tommy Refenes, was on vacation. The concept McMillen had was two-fold: to develop a roguelike title based on the first \"The Legend of Zelda\" game's dungeon structure, and to develop a game that addressed McMillen's thoughts on religion. McMillen had been inspired by Shigeru Miyamoto, the designer of the original \"Zelda\" games.\n\nRandom rooms were created for each floor of the dungeon by selecting ten to twenty rooms from a pre-built library of 200 layouts, adding in the monsters, items, and other features, and then including fixed rooms that would be found on each floor, such as a boss room and treasure room. In expanding the gameplay, McMillen used the structure of \"Zelda\"s dungeons to design how the player would progress through the game. In a typical \"Zelda\" dungeon, according to McMillen, the player acquires a new item that helps them to progress farther in the game; he took the same inspiration to assure that each level in \"Isaac\" included at least one item and one bonus item on defeating the boss that would boost the character's attributes. McMillen also wanted to encourage players to experiment to learn how things work within \"Isaac\", mirroring how Miyamoto had done with the original \"Zelda\" game. He designed the level progression to become more difficult with the player's progression in the game, as well as additional content that became available after beating the game as to make it feel like the game was long. McMillen designed four of the selectable characters based on the main classes of \"Dungeons & Dragons\"—fighter, thief, cleric and wizard.\n\nOn the story side, McMillen explained that the religious tone is based on his own experiences with his family, split between Catholics and born-again Christians. McMillen noted that while both sides born out faith from the same Bible, their attitudes were different; he found some of the Catholic rituals his family performed inspiring, while other beliefs they had were condemning of several pastimes McMillen had participated in like \"Dungeons & Dragons\". He took inspiration from that duality to create \"Isaac\"s narrative, showing how religion can both instill harmful feelings while also bringing about dark creativity. McMillen also considered the scare tactics used by the Christian right to condemn popular media of the 1980s, such as heavy metal and video games. McMillen noted how many of the propaganda films from this period features satanic cults that would sacrifice children, and he noted how many Biblical stories mirrored these concepts, subsequently building the story around that. He also stated that he also tended to like \"really weird stuff\" relating to toilet humor and similar types of off-color humor that did not sit well with his family and which he had explored in previous games before \"Super Meat Boy\". While \"Super Meat Boy\" helped to make his reputation (including being one of the featured developers in \"\"), he felt it was a \"safe\" game considering his preferred type of humor, and used \"Isaac\" to return to this form, considering that the game could easily be \"career suicide\" but would make a statement about what he really wanted to do.\n\nWithin the week, they had a working game written in Adobe Flash's ActionScript 2. The two agreed to complete it out as a game they could release on Steam though with no expectations of sales. Completion of the game from the prototype to the finished state took about 3 months with part-time development. During this time, they discovered there were several limitations on the size and scope of both Flash and ActionScript that limited how much they could do with the game, but continued to use the tools as to release the title. McMillen said that because they were not worried about sales, they were able to work with Valve to release the game without fears of censorship or having to seek an ESRB rating. Releasing through Steam also enabled them to update the game freely, several times on its initial release, an aspect that they could not do with other consoles without significant cost to themselves. They did release without significant end-user testing, as it would have taken several hundreds of users to go through all the various combinations of items that a player could collect, and McMillen recognized they had released the title with their buyers being playtesters for them. A week after the Steam release, McMillen released a demo version via the website \"Newgrounds\". Merge Games produced a physical edition that included the game, soundtrack, and a poster, for stores in the United Kingdom in 2012.\n\nDanny Baranowsky, the game's composer and who previously worked with McMillen on \"Super Meat Boy\", was involved early on with the project shortly after the completion of the first prototype. McMillen and Baranowsky worked back and forth, with McMillen providing artwork from the game and allowing Baranowsky to develop the musical themes based on that; this would often lead to McMillen creating more art to support the music as it progressed. Baranowsky had been drawn to \"The Binding of Isaac\" as though the game puts forth a dark tone, he stated it had rather silly undertones underneath and such that one could not take it too seriously. Some of the songs were inspired by classical choral music but modified to fit the theme of the game. Other works were inspired by boss fight songs composed by Nobuo Uematsu for the \"Final Fantasy\" series. Baranowsky also had additional time after finishing the main songs for the game to craft short additional tracks that were used for special rooms like shops and secret areas.\n\nIn January 2012, as the game has surpassed 450,000 units sold, McMillen stated that he was approached by a publisher that had interest in bringing the title to the Nintendo 3DS as a downloadable title through the Nintendo eShop, though McMillen had reservations given Nintendo's reputation for less risque content. In late February, McMillen stated that Nintendo had rejected the game because of \"questionable religious content\". He believed this stemmed from Germany's classification board rating the existing Windows version of the game as \"age 16+\" due to potentially blasphemous content, the first such time a game was rated in that manner in the country. McMillen noted that Nintendo executives he spoke to before this decision had noted some blasphemous content would have been acceptable, and were more concerned with overtly religious content. He also noted that he was approached about his willingness to make some changes to the game to make it more suitable for the 3DS, but never was given a list of specific changes. McMillen speculated that Nintendo was worried about its reputation; because of the game's resemblance to \"The Legend of Zelda\", an unknowing child could potentially have downloaded the title and been shocked by the content, which would have reflected poorly on Nintendo.\n\nSeveral game websites were outraged at Nintendo's decision. Though disappointed with Nintendo's decision, McMillen did not think the loss of the 3DS port was a major issue, and saw a brief sales burst on Steam as the news was covered in gaming website. McMillen further praised the flexibility of the Steam platform, which does not require games to obtain ESRB ratings to be published on the service, and the freedom it gave to the publishers regardless of the game content.\n\nNintendo would later allow the \"Rebirth\" remake to be released on both the New Nintendo 3DS and the Wii U in 2015; this came in part for three executives within Nintendo—Steve Singer, the vice president of licensing; Mark Griffin, a senior manager in licensing, and Dan Adelman, the head of indie development—that championed support for \"The Binding of Isaac\".\n\nAn expansion to the game, entitled \"Wrath of the Lamb\", was released through Steam on May 28, 2012. McMillen was inspired to create the expansion not only due to the success of the base game, but because his wife Danielle had fully completed the base game, the first game he had written in which she had shown significant interest. The expansion adds 70% more content to the original, and contains more than 10 bosses, over 100 items, over 40 unlocks, two additional endings, and two additional optional levels. This expansion added new \"alternate\" floors, which can replace the normal floors, creating an alternate route through the game. These floors contain harder enemies, and a different set of bosses. Other features include a new item type, Trinkets, which have a variety of passive or triggered effects when carried, as well as new room types. McMillen had plans to release a second expansion beyond \"Wrath of the Lamb\", but was constrained by the limits of Flash at this point.\n\nSometime in 2012 after \"Isaac\" release, McMillen was approached by Tyrone Rodriguez of Nicalis who asked if McMillen was interested in bringing the game to consoles. McMillen was interested, but insisted that they would have to reprogram the game to get around the limitations of Flash as to include \"Wrath of Lamb\" and the second planned expansion, remaking the game's graphics in 16-bit instead of vector-based Flash graphics. Further, McMillen had wanted nothing to do with the business aspects of the game, having recounted the difficulties he had in handling this for \"Super Meat Boy\". Nicalis agreed to these, and began work in 2012 on what would become \"\", an improved version of the title. It was released on November 4, 2014 for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, PlayStation 4, and PlayStation Vita, with versions for the Wii U, New Nintendo 3DS, and Xbox One released on July 23, 2015. The game introduced numerous new playable characters, items, enemies, bosses, challenges, and room layout seeds for floors. A content pack, entitled \"Afterbirth\" was released for \"Rebirth\" starting October 2015, adding new alternate chapters, characters and items, as well as wave-based Greed mode. A second update, \"Afterbirth+\", added further additional content and support for user-created modifications, and was released on January 3, 2017.\n\nMcMillen is currently working with James Id to develop \"The Legend of Bum-bo\", which McMillen expects to release between December of 2018 or first half of 2019. \"Bum-bo\" is described as a prequel to \"Isaac\", and Isaac and Gish will appear as characters in the game. Isaac also appears as a playable character in the fighting game \"Blade Strangers\" and the puzzle game \"Crystal Crisis\".\n\nOn June 27th, 2018, Edmund McMillen announced a card game adaptation in cooperation with Studio 71 titled \"\".\n\n\"The Binding of Isaac\" received generally favorable reviews from game critics. On Metacritic, the game has an average of 84 out of 100 based on 30 reviews.\n\n\"The Binding of Isaac\" has been received by reviewers as a game with high replayability with the extensive range and combinations of power-ups that the player can encounter during a run-through, while providing an accessible \"Zelda\"-inspired framework that most video game players would recognize and easily come to understand. John Teti for \"Eurogamer\" praised the game for its replayability through the randomization aspects, calling it \"the most accessible exploration of the roguelike idea\" that he had seen. \"Edge\"s similarly commented on the lure to replay the game due to its short playthrough time, calling it \"an imaginative and quick-witted arcade experience that manages to be both depraved and strangely sweet by turn\". GameSpot's Maxwell McGee stated that the game smartly has removed extraneous features such that \"what remains is a tightly focused game that continues to feel fresh even after multiple completions\". Though the game is considered to be accessible to new players, reviewers found the game to be a difficult challenge, often set by the randomness of what power-ups the player happened to acquire during a single run. Writers for \"The A.V. Club\" rated the game an A on a grading scale, and favorably compared the title to McMillen's \"Super Meat Boy\", requiring the player to have \"masochistic patience in the face of terrible odds\". This difficulty was considered mitigated by the large number of possible power-ups that the game offers, most would not be seen by players until they have replayed the game many times. McGee noted that while players can review what items they have discovered prior to a run-through, this feature does not explain what each item does, leaving the effect to be determined by the player while in game.\n\n\"Game Informer\"s Adam Biessener noted that while \"The Binding of Isaac\" had a number of software bugs on release that may briefly detract from the experience, \"McMillen’s vision shines through\" in the game's playability, art style, and story. Neilie Johnson for \"IGN\" found that some players may be put off by the game's crudeness but otherwise \"it's totally random, highly creative and brutally unforgiving\". Similarly, Nathan Muenier for \"GameSpy\" noted the game had some shock value that one must work past, but otherwise was \" imaginative\" and \"utterly absorbing\". Alternatively, Jordan Devore for \"Destructoid\" considered the visual style of the game one of its \"biggest selling points\", following from McMillen's past style of dark comedy from \"Super Meat Boy\". Baranowsky's soundtrack was found by reviewers to well-suit the themes of the game, and used appropriately to avoid extensive repetition during a playthrough. Kirk Hamilton of \"Kotaku\" called the soundtrack as the combination of several genres and the musical styles of Danny Elfman, Muse, and \"Final Fantasy\" that created something \"dark and unique\".\n\n\"The Binding of Isaac\" was nominated in the Best Independent Game category at the 2011 Spike Video Game Awards, but lost to \"Minecraft\".\n\nMcMillen had only expected the game to sell a few hundred copies when he released it on Steam. For the first few months of its release, sales were roughly a few hundred per day, but shortly thereafter, McMillen found sales suddenly were boosted, a fact he attributed to numerous Let's Play videos that had been published by players to showcase the game and drove sales. This popularity also drew interest by players that wanted to create custom mods for the game, which would become a factor in the design of the sequel to better support modding. \n\nBy November 2012, the game sold over one million copies, with at least one-quarter of those having purchased the \"Wrath of the Lamb\" extension. As of July 2014, the game has sold over 3 million copies. By July 2015, following the release of \"Rebirth\", the combined games had over 5 million units sold. \"The Binding of Isaac\" is said to be a contributing factor towards the growth of the roguelike genre since around 2010, with its success paving the way for later games that used the roguelike formula, such as \"\" and \"Don't Starve\".\n"}
{"id": "95249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95249", "title": "Tjinimin", "text": "Tjinimin\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal mythology, Tjinimin is the ancestor of the Australian peoples. He is associated with the bat and with Kunmanggur the rainbow serpent.\n\nOne story of Tjinimin tells of an argument between him and the Great Rainbow Serpent where Tjinimin wanted to have sex with Great Rainbow Serpent's consorts, the Green Parrot-Girls. Upon losing Tjinimin hung upside down in a tree and admired the stars, vowing to never have sex again. Soon after, his nose falls off, supposedly explaining to the native culture why bats in the region have such short noses.\n\n"}
{"id": "654110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=654110", "title": "Wadi-us-Salaam", "text": "Wadi-us-Salaam\n\nWadi-us-Salaam () is an Islamic cemetery, located in the Shia holy city of Najaf, Iraq. It is the largest cemetery in the world. The cemetery covers and contains tens of millions of bodies. It also attracts millions of pilgrims annually.\n\nThe cemetery is located near the shrine of Imam Ali ibn Abi Talib, the fourth Sunni Caliph and the first Shia Imam. Thus, many Shi'ites in Iraq request that they be buried in this cemetery. As a result of improved transportation methods, Shi'ites from across the globe are (or seek to be) buried in the cemetery. However, burial at the cemetery \"means being placed in one of the cemetery’s many catacombs.\" According to an undertaker at the cemetery, each crypt can hold up to 50 bodies. The burial plots are controlled by Marja'.\n\nShia tradition holds that Abraham bought land in Wadi-us-Salaam and that Ali said the Wadi Al-Salaam was a part of heaven. Shia also widely believe that Ali has the power to intercede for the deceased—lessening their suffering—during the passage of their soul from the worldly life and if they are buried there \"they will be raised from the dead on judgment day with their spiritual leader.\"\n\nThe Shia are encouraged to bury their dead at the location through religious edicts and the cemetery's expansion is also seen as being a result of Shi'isms \"more permissive attitude than Sunnism with regard to the commemoration of the dead and the erection of mausoleums.\"\n\nSome rituals carried out before burial in the cemetery include: the body is washed and wrapped at the cemetery, the funeral prayers are conducted in the Imam Ali shrine, the deceased is carried around the shrine three times, and some Quranic verses are recited at the cemetery.\n\nDaily burials have been on going for over 1,400 years and the site is on the Tentative List of UNESCO's World Heritage sites. Burials in Najaf have been documented as early as the Parthian and Sassanid eras and ancient Mesopotamian cities often had similar cemeteries, where there was an accumulation of tombs.\n\nIt is estimated that during the Iraq War about 200 to 250 corpses were buried there daily; however, in 2010 this number had decreased to less than 100. Approximately 500,000 new bodies are interred in the cemetery annually from across the globe. This figure is an increase on the approximately 20,000 bodies, primarily from Iran, that used to be interred annually in the early 20th century. Most Iraqi and many Iranian Shi'ites have a relative buried in the cemetery.\n\nAs of 2014—coinciding with conflict against ISIL—it has been reported that burial plots are running out, resulting in many being stolen, illegally resold or improvised. According to one gravedigger: “I’ve never had it so busy. Not even after 2003 or 2006 [the height of Iraq’s civil war].”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44133112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44133112", "title": "Yazidis in Germany", "text": "Yazidis in Germany\n\nYazidis in Germany may refer to people born in or residing in Germany of full or partial Yazidi origin.\n\nThere is a large Yazidi community in Germany, estimated to be numbering around 60,000 people. This makes the German Yazidi community one of the largest Yazidi communities in the Yazidi diaspora.\n\nMany Yazidis fled to Germany during the 1990s fearing religious persecution in Turkey. The Yazidi population of Germany was around 20,000 in 1998. Many Yazidi intellectuals also fled during this time and now play a prominent role in Yazidi diaspora affairs and maintain connections with Yazidis in Iraq.\n\nIn August, 2014, German Yazidis held protests against the persecution of Yazidis by ISIL. Between 5,000 and 10,000 people attended the demonstrations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19579252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19579252", "title": "Yechiel Fishel Eisenbach", "text": "Yechiel Fishel Eisenbach\n\nYechiel Fishel Eisenbach (1925 – 4 September 2008) was a Haredi rabbi and long-time rosh yeshiva of Shaar Hashamayim Yeshiva in Jerusalem. He was widely regarded as one of the greatest kabbalists in Israel, and was an expert in the writings of the Arizal and the \"siddur\" of the Rashash.\n\nHe was born in Jerusalem to Rabbi Yosef Eisenbach, a \"sofer\" (scribe), and studied in the Talmud Torah and yeshiva of Shomrei HaChomot. He was also one of the first students of Yeshivat Beit Avraham-Slonim, which was then led by Rabbi Sholom Noach Berezovsky, the Rebbe of Slonim.\nAfter his marriage in 1944 to the daughter of Rabbi Asher Zelig Margolios, a noted kabbalist, Rabbi Eisenbach studied at the Pressburg Yeshiva under Rabbi Akiva Sofer (the Daas Sofer); the Toras Emes (Chabad) yeshiva; and Kollel Shomrei HaChomot. He was well known for his 18-hour day of learning, as well as his humility. Occasionally he gave shiurim (lectures) on Torah and fear of God to unmarried students. At different times, he served as mashgiach ruchani for the Slonim Yeshiva, and as \"maggid shiur\" (lecturer) for an elite group of students at Toras Emes.\n\nIn 1973, Rabbi Refoel Dovid Auerbach of Shaar Hashamayim Yeshiva asked Rabbi Eisenbach to assume the mantle of rosh yeshiva after the passing of Rabbi Aharon Slotkin. Rabbi Eisenbach's proficiency in kabbalah was well known. He knew all the writings of the Arizal and the siddur of the Rashash by heart, and was an expert in davening with the \"kavannot\" (mystical intentions) of these kabbalistic masters. Over the next 35 years, he taught thousands of students of kabbalah at the yeshiva, as well as began a new study of the \"kavannot\" of the Rashash.\n\nHis health progressively worsened in the two years before his death at the age of 83. \"Hespedim\" (eulogies) were delivered at his yeshiva by Rabbi Gamliel Rabinowitz, a fellow rosh yeshiva of Shaar Hashamayim Yeshiva; Rabbi Shmuel Auerbach, yeshiva president; Rabbi Reuven Gross; Rabbi Yaakov Hillel; and Rabbi Eisenbach's son-in-law, Rabbi Moshe Uri Eisenstein, a rabbi from the Givat Shaul neighborhood of Jerusalem. He was buried on the Mount of Olives.\n\nRabbi Eisenbach is survived by two sons, Rabbi Yaakov Tzvi Eisenbach and Rabbi Yechezkel Eisenbach, and three sons-in-law: Rabbi Moshe Uri Eisenstein (Rav of the Givat Shaul neighborhood of Jerusalem, Rabbi Tovia Miller, and Rabbi Chanina Karpman, along with grandchildren and great-grandchildren.\n"}
