{"id": "304427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304427", "title": "Abdus Salam", "text": "Abdus Salam\n\nMohammad Abdus Salam (; Punjabi, , ; 29 January 192621 November 1996), was a Pakistani theoretical physicist. He shared the 1979 Nobel Prize in Physics with Sheldon Glashow and Steven Weinberg for his contribution to the electroweak unification theory. He was the first Pakistani to receive a Nobel Prize in science and the second from an Islamic country to receive any Nobel Prize (after Anwar Sadat of Egypt).\n\nSalam was science advisor to the Ministry of Science and Technology in Pakistan from 1960 to 1974, a position from which he was supposed to play a major and influential role in the development of the country's science infrastructure. Salam contributed to developments in theoretical and particle physics. He was the founding director of the Space and Upper Atmosphere Research Commission (SUPARCO), and responsible for the establishment of the Theoretical Physics Group (TPG) in the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC). As Science Advisor, Salam played a role in Pakistan's development of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and may have contributed as well to development of atomic bomb project of Pakistan in 1972; for this, he is viewed as the \"scientific father\" of this programme. In 1974, Abdus Salam departed from his country, in protest, after the Parliament of Pakistan passed unanimously a parliamentary bill declaring members of the Ahmadiyya movement to which Salam belonged non-Muslims. In 1998, following the country's nuclear tests, the Government of Pakistan issued a commemorative stamp, as a part of \"Scientists of Pakistan\", to honour the services of Salam.\n\nSalam's notable achievements include the Pati–Salam model, magnetic photon, vector meson, Grand Unified Theory, work on supersymmetry and, most importantly, electroweak theory, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize. Salam made a major contribution in quantum field theory and in the advancement of Mathematics at Imperial College London. With his student, Riazuddin, Salam made important contributions to the modern theory on neutrinos, neutron stars and black holes, as well as the work on modernising the quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. As a teacher and science promoter, Salam is remembered as a founder and scientific father of mathematical and theoretical physics in Pakistan during his term as the chief scientific advisor to the president. Salam heavily contributed to the rise of Pakistani physics to the physics community in the world. Even until shortly before his death, Salam continued to contribute to physics, and to advocate for the development of science in Third-World countries.\n\nAbdus Salam was born to Chaudhry Muhammad Hussain and Hajira Hussain, into a Punjabi Muslim family that was part of the Ahmadiyya Movement in Islam. In terms of caste-affiliation, they were Jats of Rajput descent from Jhang on his father's side while his mother was a Kakazai from Gurdaspur. His grandfather, Gul Muhammad, was a religious scholar as well as a physician while his father was an education officer in the Department of Education of Punjab State in a poor farming district.\n\nSalam very early established a reputation throughout the Punjab and later at the University of Cambridge for outstanding brilliance and academic achievement. At age 14, Salam scored the highest marks ever recorded for the matriculation (entrance) examination at the Punjab University. He won a full scholarship to the Government College University of Lahore, Punjab State. Salam was a versatile scholar, interested in Urdu and English literature in which he excelled. But he soon picked up Mathematics as his concentration. Salam's mentor and tutors wanted him to become an English teacher, but Salam decided to stick with Mathematics As a fourth-year student there, he published his work on Srinivasa Ramanujan's problems in mathematics, and took his B.A. in Mathematics in 1944. His father wanted him to join Indian Civil Service. In those days, the Indian Civil Service was the highest aspiration for young university graduates and civil servants occupied a respected place in the civil society. Respecting his father's wish, Salam tried for the Indian Railways but did not qualify for the service as he failed the medical optical tests because he had worn spectacles since an early age. The results further concluded that Salam failed a mechanical test required by the railway engineers to gain a commission in Indian Railways, and moreover that Salam was too young to compete for the job. Therefore, Indian Railways rejected Abdus Salam's job application. While in Lahore, Abdus Salam went on to attend the graduate school of Government College University. He received his MA in Mathematics from the Government College University in 1946. That same year, he was awarded a scholarship to St John's College, Cambridge, where he completed a BA degree with Double First-Class Honours in Mathematics and Physics in 1949. In 1950, he received the Smith's Prize from Cambridge University for the most outstanding pre-doctoral contribution to Physics. After finishing his degrees, Fred Hoyle advised Salam to spend another year in the Cavendish Laboratory to do research in experimental physics, but Salam had no patience for carrying out long experiments in the laboratory. Salam returned to Jhang, Punjab (now part of Pakistan) and renewed his scholarship and returned to the United Kingdom to do his doctorate.\n\nHe obtained a PhD degree in theoretical physics from the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge. His doctoral thesis titled \"Developments in quantum theory of fields\" contained comprehensive and fundamental work in quantum electrodynamics. By the time it was published in 1951, it had already gained him an international reputation and the Adams Prize.\nDuring his doctoral studies, his mentors challenged him to solve within one year an intractable problem which had defied such great minds as Dirac and Feynman. Within six months, Salam had found a solution for the renormalisation of meson theory. As he proposed the solution at the Cavendish Laboratory, Salam had attracted the attention of Bethe, Oppenheimer and Dirac.\n\nAfter receiving his doctorate in 1951, Salam returned to Lahore at the Government College University as a Professor of Mathematics where he remained till 1954. In 1952, he was appointed professor and Chair of the Department of Mathematics at the neighbouring University of the Punjab. In the latter capacity, Salam sought to update the university curriculum, introducing a course in Quantum mechanics as a part of the undergraduate curriculum. However, this initiative was soon reverted by the Vice-Chancellor, and Salam decided to teach an evening course in Quantum Mechanics outside the regular curriculum. While Salam enjoyed a mixed popularity in the university, he began to supervise the education of students who were particularly influenced by him. As a result, Riazuddin remained the only student of Salam who had the privilege to study under Salam at the undergraduate and post-graduate level in Lahore, and post-doctoral level in Cambridge University. In 1953, Salam was unable to establish a research institute in Lahore, as he faced strong opposition from his peers. In 1954, Salam took fellowship and became one of the earliest fellows of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences. As a result of 1953 Lahore riots, Salam went back to Cambridge and joined St John's College, and took a position as a professor of mathematics in 1954.\nIn 1957, he was invited to take a chair at Imperial College, London, and he and Paul Matthews went on to set up the Theoretical Physics Department at Imperial College. As time passed, this department became one of the prestigious research departments that included well known physicists such as Steven Weinberg, Tom Kibble, Gerald Guralnik, C. R. Hagen, Riazuddin, and John Ward.\n\nIn 1957, Punjab University conferred Salam with an Honorary doctorate for his contribution in Particle physics. The same year with help from his mentor, Salam launched a scholarship programme for his students in Pakistan. Salam retained strong links with Pakistan, and visited his country from time to time. At Cambridge and Imperial College he formed a group of theoretical physicists, the majority of whom were his Pakistani students. At age 33, Salam became one of the youngest persons to be elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1959. Salam took a fellowship at the Princeton University in 1959, where he met with J. Robert Oppenheimer and to whom he presented his research work on neutrinos. Oppenheimer and Salam discussed the foundation of electrodynamics, problems and their solution. His dedicated personal assistant was Jean Bouckley. In 1980, Salam became a foreign fellow of the Bangladesh Academy of Sciences.\n\nEarly in his career, Salam made an important and significant contribution in quantum electrodynamics and quantum field theory, including its extension into particle and nuclear physics. In his early career in Pakistan, Salam was greatly interested in mathematical series and their relation to physics. Salam had played an influential role in the advancement of nuclear physics, but he maintained and dedicated himself to mathematics and theoretical physics and focused Pakistan to do more research in theoretical physics. However, he regarded nuclear physics (nuclear fission and nuclear power) as a non-pioneering part of physics as it had already \"happened\". Even in Pakistan, Salam was the leading driving force in theoretical physics in Pakistan, with many scientists he continued to influence and encourage to keep their work on theoretical physics.\n\nSalam had a prolific research career in theoretical and high-energy physics. Salam had worked on theory of the neutrino – an elusive particle that was first postulated by Wolfgang Pauli in the 1930s. Salam introduced chiral symmetry in the theory of neutrinos. The introduction of chiral symmetry played crucial role in subsequent development of the theory of electroweak interactions. Salam later passed his work to Riazuddin, who made pioneering contributions in neutrinos. Salam introduced the massive Higgs bosons to the theory of the Standard Model, where he later predicted the existence of proton decay. In 1963, Salam published his theoretical work on the vector meson. The paper introduced the interaction of vector meson, photon (vector electrodynamics), and the renormalisation of vector mesons' known mass after the interaction. In 1961, Salam began to work with John Clive Ward on symmetries and electroweak unification. In 1964, Salam and Ward worked on a Gauge theory for the weak and electromagnetic interaction, subsequently obtaining SU(2) × U(1) model. Salam was convinced that all the elementary particle interactions are actually the gauge interactions. In 1968, together with Weinberg and Sheldon Glashow, Salam formulated the mathematical concept of their work. While in Imperial College, Salam, along with Glashow and Jeffrey Goldstone, mathematically proved the Goldstone's theorem, that a massless spin-zero object must appear in a theory as a result of spontaneous breaking of a continuous global symmetry. In 1960, Salam and Weinberg incorporated the Higgs mechanism into Glashow's discovery, giving it a modern form in electroweak theory, and thus theorised the Standard Model. In 1968, together with Weinberg and Sheldon Glashow, Salam finally formulated the mathematical concept of their work.In 1966, Salam carried out pioneering work on a hypothetical particle. Salam showed the possible electromagnetic interaction between the Magnetic monopole and the C-violation, thus he formulated the magnetic photon.\n\nFollowing the publication of PRL Symmetry Breaking papers in 1964, Steven Weinberg and Salam were the first to apply the Higgs mechanism to electroweak symmetry breaking. Salam provided a mathematical postulation for the interaction between the Higgs boson and the electroweak symmetry theory.\n\nIn 1972, Salam began to work with Indian-American theoretical physicist Jogesh Pati. Pati wrote to Salam several times expressing interest to work under Salam's direction, in response to which Salam eventually invited Pati to the ICTP seminar in Pakistan. Salam suggested to Pati that there should be some deep reason why the protons and electrons are so different and yet carry equal but opposite electric charge. Protons carry quarks, but the electroweak theory was concerned only with the electrons and neutrinos, with nothing postulated about quarks. If all of nature's ingredients could be brought together in one new symmetry, it might reveal a reason for the various features of these particles and the forces they feel. This led to the development of Pati–Salam model in particle physics. In 1973, Salam and Jogesh Pati were the first to notice that since Quarks and Leptons have very similar SU(2) × U(1) representation content, they all may have similar entities. They provided a simple realisation of the quark-lepton symmetry by postulating that lepton number was a fourth colour, dubbed \"violet\".\n\nPhysicists had believed that there were four fundamental forces of nature: the gravitational force, the strong and weak nuclear forces, and the electromagnetic force. Salam had worked on the unification of these forces from 1959 with Glashow and Weinberg. While at Imperial College London, Salam successfully showed that weak nuclear forces are not really different from electromagnetic forces, and two could inter-convert. Salam provided a theory that shows the unification of two fundamental forces of nature, weak nuclear forces and the electromagnetic forces, one into another. Glashow had also formulated the same work, and the theory was combined in 1966. In 1967, Salam proved the electroweak unification theory mathematically, and finally published the papers. For this achievement, Salam, Glashow, and Weinberg were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1979. The Nobel Prize Foundation paid tribute to the scientists and issued a statement saying: \"For their contributions to the theory of the unified weak and electromagnetic interaction between elementary particles, including, inter alia, the prediction of the weak neutral current\". In the 1970s Salam continued trying to unify forces by including the strong interaction in a grand unified theory.\n\nAbdus Salam returned to Pakistan in 1960 to take charge of a government post that was given to him by President Field Marshal Ayub Khan. From her independence, Pakistan has never had a coherent science policy, and the total expenditure on research and development represent ~1.0% of Pakistan's GDP. Even the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC) headquarters was located in a small room, and less than 10 scientists were working on fundamental concepts of physics. Abdus Salam replaced Salimuzzaman Siddiqui as Science Advisor, became first Member (technical) of Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission. Abdus Salam expanded the web of physics research and development in Pakistan by sending more than 500 scientists abroad. In September 1961, Abdus Salam approached President Ayub Khan to set up the country's first national space agency. On 16 September 1961, through an executive order, Space and Upper Atmosphere Research Commission was established, in which Abdus Salam served as the first director. Before 1960, very little work on scientific development was done, and scientific activities in Pakistan were almost diminished. Abdus Salam called Ishfaq Ahmad, a nuclear physicist, who had left the country for Switzerland where he joined CERN, to Pakistan. With the support of Abdus Salam, PAEC established PAEC Lahore Center-6, with Ishfaq Ahmad as its first director. In 1967, Abdus Salam became a central and administrative figure to lead the research in both Theoretical and Particle physics. With the establishment of Institute of Physics at Quaid-e-Azam University, the research in theoretical and particle physics was engaged. Under Abdus Salam's direction, physicists tackled the greatest outstanding problems in physics and mathematics. Another physicist, Raziuddin Siddiqui, established numerous physics research groups and supervised research activities in the academic institutions of Pakistan. Under the direction of Abdus Salam, research in physics reached a point that prompted worldwide recognition of Pakistani physicists.\n\nFrom the 1950s, Salam had tried establishing high-powered research institutes in Pakistan, though he was unable to do so. Salam moved PAEC Headquarters to a bigger building, and established research laboratories all over the country. On the direction of Salam, Ishrat Hussain Usmani set up plutonium and uranium exploration committees throughout the country. In October 1961, Salam travelled to the United States and signed a space-co-operation agreement between Pakistan and United States. In November 1961, NASA started to build a space facility – Flight Test Range – in Balochistan where Abdus Salam served as its first technical director.\n\nAbdus Salam played an influential and significant role in Pakistan's development in nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. In 1964, Abdus Salam was made head of Pakistan's IAEA delegation and represented Pakistan for a decade. The same year, Abdus Salam joined Munir Ahmad Khan – Abdus Salam's lifelong friend and contemporary at Government College University. Khan was the first person in the IAEA that Abdus Salam had consulted about the establishment of International Centre for Theoretical Physics, a research physics institution, in Trieste, Italy. With an agreement signed with IAEA, the International Centre for Theoretical Physics was set up with Abdus Salam as its first director. At IAEA, Abdus Salam had advocated the importance of nuclear power plants in his country. It was due to his effort that in 1965, Canada and Pakistan signed a nuclear energy co-operation deal. Salam had obtained the permission from Ayub Khan – against the wishes of Ayub Khan's own government functionaries – to set up the nuclear power plant near Karachi. In 1965, with the efforts led by Abdus Salam, the United States and Pakistan signed an agreement in which the US provided Pakistan with a small research reactor. Abdus Salam had a long dream to establish a research institute in Pakistan, for which he had advocated on many different occasions. In 1965, Abdus Salam and Edward Durrell Stone signed a contract for the establishment of Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science and Technology at Nilore, Islamabad.\n\nSalam was the founder of Pakistan's space programme as he was responsible for the establishment of the space research activities in Pakistan. In early 1961, Salam approached President Ayub Khan to lay the foundation of country's first executive agency to co-ordinate space research. On 16 September 1961, through an executive order, the Space and Upper Atmosphere Research Commission (SUPARCO) was established of which Salam was made its first and founder director of the agency. Salam immediately travelled to United States, where he successfully signed a space co-operation agreement with United States Government. In November 1961, NASA built Flight Test Center (FTC) in Balochistan Province. During this time, Salam visited Air Force Academy where he met with Air Commodore (Brigadier-General) Wladyslaw Turowicz – a Polish military scientist and an aerospace engineer. Turowicz was made the first technical director of the space centre, and a programme of rocket testing ensued. In 1964, while in the United States, Salam visited the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and met with nuclear engineers Salim Mehmud and Tariq Mustafa. Salam signed another agreement with National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) in which NASA launched a programme to provide training to Pakistan's scientists and engineers. Both nuclear engineers returned to Pakistan in few months and were inducted in Suparco.\n\nSalam knew the importance of nuclear technology in Pakistan, for civilian and peaceful purposes. But, according to his biographers, Salam played an ambiguous role in Pakistan's own integrated atomic bomb project. As late as the 1960s, Salam made an unsuccessful attempt for a proposal for the establishment of nuclear fuel reprocessing plant, but it was deferred the matter on economic grounds by Ayub Khan. According to Rehman, Salam's influence in nuclear development was lessened and diminished as late as 1974, and he became critical of Bhutto's control over science. But Salam personally did not terminate his connection with the scientists working in the theoretical physics division at PAEC. As early as 1972–73, he had been a great advocate for the atomic bomb project, but subsequently took a stance against it after he fell out with Bhutto over the issue of the Ahmaddiya denomination as non-Islamic.\n\nIn 1965, Salam led the establishing of the nuclear research institute—Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science and Technology. In 1965, the plutonium reactor Pakistan Atomic Research Reactor went critical under the leadership of Salam. In 1973, Salam proposed the idea of establishing an annual college to promote scientific activities in the country to the Chairman of PAEC, Munir Ahmad Khan, who wholeheartedly accepted and fully supported this idea. This led to the establishment of the International Nathiagali Summer College on Physics and Contemporary Needs (INSC), where each year since 1976 scientists from all over the world come to Pakistan to interact with Pakistani scientists. The first annual INSC conference was held on advanced particle and nuclear physics.\n\nIn November 1971, Salam met with Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in his residence, and following Bhutto's advice, Salam went to United States to avoid the 1971 Indo-Pak winter war. In 1971, Salam had travelled to the United States and returned to Pakistan with scientific literature about the Manhattan Project, and calculations involving in atomic bombs. In 1972, the Government of Pakistan learned about the development status of the first atomic bomb completed under the Indian nuclear programme. On 20 January 1972, at the Multan meeting, Bhutto orchestrated to develop the deterrence programme. Former prime minister, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, formed a group of scientists and engineers, which was first headed by Salam. In 1972, Salam, as Science Advisor to the President, had managed and participated in a secret meeting of nuclear scientists with Bhutto in Multan, which came to be known as the \"Multan Meeting\". At this meeting, only I.H. Usmani protested, believing that the country had neither facilities nor talent to carry out such an ambitious and technologically remanding project at that time, whilst Salam remained quiet. Here, Bhutto entrusted Salam and appointed Munir Ahmad Khan as Chairman of the PAEC and head of the atomic bomb program, as Salam had supported Khan. Few months after the meeting, Salam, along with Khan and Riazuddin, met with Bhutto in his residence where the scientists briefed Bhutto about the nuclear weapons program. After the meeting, Salam established the \"Theoretical Physics Group (TPG)\" in PAEC. Abdus had led groundbreaking work at the TPG and was initially headed by Salam until 1974.\n\nAn office was set up for Salam in the Prime ministers' Secretariat by order of Bhutto. Salam immediately started to motivate and invite scientists to begin work with PAEC in the development of fission weapons. In December 1972, two theoretical physicists working at the International Centre for Theoretical Physics were asked by Salam to report to Munir Ahmad Khan, the scientific director of the program. This marked the beginning of the \"Theoretical Physics Group (TPG)\", reporting directly to Salam. The TPG, in PAEC, was assigned to conduct research in fast neutron calculations, hydrodynamics (how the explosion produced by a chain reaction might behave), problems of neutron diffusion, and the development of theoretical designs of Pakistan's nuclear weapon devices. Later, the Theoretical Physics Group working under the leadership of Riazuddin, who was also Salam's student, began to directly report to Salam, and the work on the theoretical design of the nuclear weapon device was completed in 1977. Hence, Salam had led the groundbreaking work in the development of the weapons programme, with Khan. In 1972, Salam had formed the Mathematical Physics Group, under Raziuddin Siddiqui, that was charged, with the Theoretical Physics Group, with carrying out research in the theory of simultaneity during the detonation process, and the mathematics involved in the theory of nuclear fission Following India's surprise nuclear test —Pokhran-I – in 1974, Munir Ahmad Khan had called for a meeting to initiate work on atomic bomb, which was attended by Salam and at which Muhammad Hafeez Qureshi was appointed head of the Directorate of Technical Development in PAEC.\n\nThe DTD was set up to co-ordinate the work of the various specialised groups of scientists and engineers working on different aspects of the atomic bomb. The word \"bomb\" was never used in this meeting, but the participants fully understood what was being discussed. On March 1974, Salam and Khan also established the Wah Group Scientist that was charged with manufacturing materials, explosive lenses and triggering mechanism development of the weapon. Following the setting up of DTD, Salam, along with Riazuddin and Munir Ahmad Khan, visited the Pakistan Ordnance Factories (POF) where they held talks with senior military engineers led by POF chairman Lieutenant-General Qamar Ali Mirza. It was there that the Corps of Engineers built the Metallurgical Laboratory in Wah Cantt in 1976. Thus, the Wah Group working under the DTD was charged with the material and triggering mechanism development of the weapon. Salam remained associated with the nuclear weapons programme until the mid-1974, when he left the country after Ahmadi were declared non-Muslims by the Pakistani Parliament. His own relations with Prime minister Bhutto fell out and turned into open hostility after the Ahmadiyya Community was declared as not-Islamic; he lodged a public and powerful protest against Bhutto regarding this issue and gave great criticism to Bhutto over his control over science. In spite of this, Salam maintained close relations with the theoretical physics division at PAEC who kept him informed about every status of the calculations needed to calculate the performance of the atomic bomb, according to Norman Dombey. After seeing Indian aggression in Northern Pakistan, followed by massive troops rotation in Southern Pakistan, Salam again renewed his ties with the senior scientists working in the atomic bomb projects, including Ishfaq Ahmad and others, who had kept him informed about the scientific development of the program. In the 1980s, Salam personally approved many appointments and a large influx of Pakistani scientists to the associateship program at ICTP and CERN, and engaged in research in theoretical physics with his students at the ICTP.\n\nIn 2008, Indian scholar Ravi Singh noted in his book that \"in 1978, Abdus Salam with PAEC officials, paid a secret visit to China, and was instrumental in initiating industrial nuclear cooperation between the two countries.\" Although he had left the country, Salam did not hesitate to advise the PAEC and Theoretical and Mathematical Physics Group on important scientific matters, and kept his close association with TPG and PAEC.\n\nIn 1964, Salam founded the International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP), Trieste, in the North-East of Italy and served as its director until 1993. In 1974, he founded International Nathiagali Summer College (INSC) to promote science in his country. The INSC is an annual meeting of scientists from all over the world to come to Pakistan and hold discussions on different aspects of physics and science. Even today, the INSC holds annual meetings, and Salam's pupil student Riazuddin is its director since its inception.\n\nIn 1997, the scientists at ICTP commemorated Salam and renamed ICTP as \"Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics\". Salam had advocated for development of Science in third world countries, and attended various seminars in different countries. Throughout the years, Salam served on a number of United Nations committees concerning science and technology in developing countries. Salam also founded the Third World Academy of Sciences (TWAS) and was a leading figure in the creation of a number of international centres dedicated to the advancement of science and technology.\n\nDuring his visit at the Institute of Physics of Quaid-i-Azam University in 1979, Salam had explained after receiving his award: \"Physicists believed there are four fundamental forces of nature; the gravitational force, the weak and strong nuclear force, and the electromagnetic force\". Salam was a firm believer that \"scientific thought is the common heritage of mankind\", and that developing nations needed to help themselves and invest in their own scientists to boost development and reduce the gap between the Global South and the Global North, thus contributing to a more peaceful world.\n\nIn 1981, Salam became a founding member of the World Cultural Council.\n\nAlthough Salam had departed from Pakistan, he did not terminate his connection to Pakistan. Salam continued inviting Pakistan's scientists to ICTP, and maintained a research programme for the Pakistani scientists. Many prominent scientists, including Ghulam Murtaza, Riazuddin, Kamaluddin Ahmed, Faheem Hussain, Raziuddin Siddiqui, Munir Ahmad Khan, Ishfaq Ahmad, and I. H. Usmani, considered him as their mentor and a teacher.\n\nSalam was a very private individual, who kept his public and personal lives quite separate. He married twice; first time to a cousin, the second time in accordance with Islamic law, and at his death, was survived by three daughters and a son by his first wife, and a son and daughter by his second, Professor Dame Louise Johnson, formerly Professor of Molecular biophysics in Oxford University. Two of his daughters are; Anisa Bushra Salam Bajwa and Aziza Rahman.\n\nAbdus Salam was an Ahmadi Muslim, who saw his religion as a fundamental part of his scientific work. He once wrote that \"the Holy Quran enjoins us to reflect on the verities of Allah's created laws of nature; however, that our generation has been privileged to glimpse a part of His design is a bounty and a grace for which I render thanks with a humble heart.\"\"\n\nDuring his acceptance speech for the Nobel Prize in Physics, Salam quoted verses from the Quran and stated:\nIn 1974, the Pakistan parliament made a constitutional amendment that declared Ahmadi as non-Muslims. In protest, Salam left Pakistan for London. After his departure, Salam did not completely terminate his connection to Pakistan, and kept his close association with the Theoretical Physics Group as well as academic scientists from Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC). At ICTP, Salam had launched series of post-research programmes for Pakistani academics with whom he had developed extremely close relations. In 1983, Riazuddin and Asghar Qadir returned to ICTP where they had joined Salam, and stayed with him until 1990.\n\nAbdus Salam died peacefully on 21 November 1996 at the age of 70 in Oxford, England, from progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). His body was returned to Pakistan and kept in Darul Ziafat, where some 13,000 men and women visited to pay their last respects. Approximately 30,000 people attended his funeral prayers.\n\nSalam was buried in Bahishti Maqbara, a cemetery established by the Ahmadiyya Community at Rabwah, Punjab, Pakistan, next to his parents' graves. The epitaph on his tomb initially read \"First Muslim Nobel Laureate\". The Pakistani government removed \"Muslim\" and left only his name on the headstone.Pakistan is infamous for its persecution of the Ahmadi people. They are the only nation to officially declare that Ahmadis are non-muslim. The word \"Muslim\" was initially obscured on the orders of a local magistrate before moving to the national level. Under Ordinance XX, being an Ahmadi, he was considered a non-Muslim according to the definition provided in the II Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan.\n\nSalam's work in Pakistan has been far reaching and regarded as highly influential. Salam is remembered as his peers and students as the \"father of Pakistan's school of Theoretical Physics\" as well as Pakistan's science. Abdus Salam was a charismatic and an iconic figure, as much as a symbol among them of what they were working or/ researching toward in their respected field. His students, fellow scientists and engineers, remembered him as brilliant teacher, and engaging researcher who would also influence among others to do the same. Salam founded the Space Research Commission of which he served its first founding director in the 1980s. In 1998, the Government of Pakistan issued a commemorative stamp to honour the services of Salam as part of its \"Scientists of Pakistan\" series. His alma mater, Government College Lahore, now a university, has Abdus Salam Chair in Physics and Abdus Salam School of Mathematical Sciences named after him. The Abdus Salam Chair was also established in his honour at the Syed Babar Ali School of Science and Engineering in Lahore University of Management Sciences. Despite the immense services he had done for Pakistan and the Government, he has been discriminated against because of his affiliation with the Ahmadiyya sect, which the Pakistan Government has denounced. He has also made a significant contribution towards the recent success of search for the Higgs boson.\n\nHowever, Salam has been commemorated by Pakistan's noted and prominent scientists, who were also his students. Many scientists have recalled their college experiences. Ghulam Murtaza, a professor of plasma physics at the Government College University and student of Salam, wrote:\n\nWhen Dr. Salam was to deliver a lecture, the hall would be packed and although the subject was Particle Physics, his manner and eloquence was such as if he was talking about literature. When he finished his lectures, listeners would often burst into spontaneous applause and give him a standing ovation. People from all parts of the world would come to Imperial College and seek Dr. Salam's help. He would give a patient hearing to everyone including those who were talking nonsense. He treated everyone with respect and compassion and never belittled or offended anyone. Dr. Salam's strength was that he could \"sift jewels from the sand\".\n\nIshfaq Ahmad, former chairman of the PAEC and a lifelong friend of Salam recalls:\n\nDr Salam was responsible for sending about 500 physicists, mathematicians and scientists from Pakistan, for PhD's to the best institutions in UK and USA.\n\nIn August 1996, the former chairman of PAEC and lifelong friend, Munir Ahmad Khan met Salam in Oxford. Munir Ahmad Khan, who headed the nuclear weapons and energy programme, said:\n\nMy last meeting with Abdus Salam was only three months ago. His disease had taken its toll and he was unable to talk. Yet he understood what was said. I told him about the celebration held in Pakistan on his seventieth birthday. He kept staring at me. He had risen above praise. As I rose to leave he pressed my hand to express his feelings as if he wanted to thank everyone who had said kind words about him. Dr. Abdus Salam had deep love for Pakistan in spite of the fact that he was treated unfairly and indifferently by his own country. It became more and more difficult for him to come to Pakistan and this hurt him deeply. Now he has returned home finally, to rest in peace for ever in the soil that he loved so much. May be in the years to come we will rise above our prejudice and own him and give him, after his death, what we could not when he was alive. We Pakistanis may choose to ignore Dr. Salam, but the world at large will always remember him. \n\nLLC started formally researching and developing a film on the science and life of Abdus Salam in 2004, two years after the producers had conceived of the idea. A fundraising teaser was released by Kailoola Productions to coincide with Salam's birth anniversary on 29 January 2017. The post-production phase of this documentary film, pending funding, is estimated at US$150,000. The film \"Salam: The First ****** Nobel Laureate\" directed by Anand Kamalakar appeared in 2018.\n\nPilgrim Films released \"The Dream of Symmetry\" in September 2011. Their press release describes it as presenting \"the extraordinary figure of Abdus Salam, who not only was an outstanding scientist but also a generous humanitarian and a valuable person. His rich and busy life was an endless quest for symmetry, that he pursued in the universe of physical laws and in the world of human beings.\"\n\nIn 1997, scientists at ICTP renamed the institute as The Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics in the honour of Salam. Salam's services have been recognised in Pakistan, as his students have openly spoken and stressed the importance of Science and Technology in Pakistan. In 1999, per the recommendation of Ishfaq Ahmad, the Federal Government led the establishment of Salam Chair in Physics at the Government College University. On 22 November 2009, the Director of Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics had gifted the original Nobel Prize Certificate to his alma mater. In 2011, GCU's Salam Chair in Physics held a one-day-long conference that was attributed to Nobel laureate Abdus Salam. Salam's students Ghulam Murtaza, Perviaz Hoodbhoy, Riazuddin and Tariq Zaidi discussed the life and works of the Nobel laureate, and brought to light the achievement of Salam in Pakistan and in the Physics. While covering the media converge on Salam's tribute, the \"News International\", called Salam as the \"great Pakistan scientist\".\n\nIn 1998, the Edward A. Bouchet-ICTP Institute was renamed as Edward Bouchet Abdus Salam Institute. In 2003, Government of Punjab created the institute of excellence for the Mathematical Sciences, Abdus Salam School of Mathematical Sciences, in Salam's Alma mater – Government College University.\nIn 2008, in an opinion, \"Daily Times\" called Salam \"one of the greatest scientist Pakistan has ever produced\".\n\nIn 2015, the Academy of Young Researchers and Scholars, Lahore, renamed its library to \"Abdus Salam Library\". In the town of Vaughan, Ontario, Canada, near the headquarters of the Canadian branch of the Ahmadiyya Community, of which Professor Abdus Salam was a member, the community has named a street after his name. It is called Abdus Salam Street. Additionally, there are two annual Abdus Salam science fairs, one held in Canada and the other in the US. Each is organised as a National event for young scientists from the Ahmadiyya Community in an effort to motivate youth toward scientific endeavour.\n\nOn December 6, 2016, Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif approved the renaming of Quaid-i-Azam University's (QAU) physics centre to the Professor Abdus Salam Center for Physics. It was also announced that \"Professor Abdus Salam Fellowship\" will be established, which will include five annual fully funded Pakistani PhD students in the field of Physics in \"leading international universities\".\n\nIn 1979, Salam was awarded the 1979 Nobel Prize in Physics, along with Glashow and Weinberg, \"For their contributions to the theory of the unified weak and electromagnetic interaction between elementary particles, including, inter alia, the prediction of the weak neutral current\". Salam received high civil and science awards from all over the world. Salam is recipient of first high civil awards – Star of Pakistan (1959) and the Nishan-e-Imtiaz (1979) – awarded both by President of Pakistan for his outstanding services to Pakistan. The National Center for Physics (NCP) contains a Abdus Salam Museum dedicated to the life of Salam and his work as he discovered and formulated the Electroweak Theory. Below is the list of awards that were conferred to Salam in his lifetime.\n\nThe Abdus Salam Award (also called as Salam Prize) is an award in natural and physical sciences, established to recognised the high achievements and contributions in physical and natural sciences. In 1979, Riazuddin, Fayyazuddin and Asghar Qadir met with Salam, and presented the idea of creating an award to appreciate scientists, resident in Pakistan, in their respective fields. Salam had donated the money he had won as he felt that he had no rightly use of the prize money. It was endowed by Asghar Qadir, Riazuddin and Fayyazuddin in 1980, and it was first awarded in 1981. The winners are selected by a committee (consisted of Aghar Qadir, Fayyazuddin, Riazuddin, and others) of the Center for Advanced Mathematics and Physics (CAMP), which administers the award. The Abdus Salam Medal is presented by the Third World Academy of Sciences in Trieste, Italy. First given in 1995, the award is presented to the people who have served the cause of science in the Developing World. The Abdus Salam Shield of Honor in Mathematics was initiated by the National Mathematical Society of Pakistan to promote and recognize quality research in Mathematics at 2015. It is awarded for the first time in 2016.\n\nSalam's primary focus was research on the physics of elementary particles. His particular numerous groundbreaking contributions included:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21350938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21350938", "title": "Absolute (philosophy)", "text": "Absolute (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, the concept of The Absolute, also known as The (Unconditioned) Ultimate, The Wholly Other, The Supreme Being, The Absolute/Ultimate Reality, and other names, is the thing, being, entity, power, force, reality, presence, law, principle, etc. that possesses maximal ontological status, existential ranking, existential greatness, or existentiality. In layman's terms, this is the one that is, in one way or another, the greatest, truest, or most real being.\n\nThere are many conceptions of The Absolute in various fields and subjects, such as philosophy, religion, spiritual traditions, mathematics, and even natural science. The nature of these conceptions can range from \"merely\" encompassing all physical existence, nature, or reality, to being completely unconditioned existentially, transcending all concepts, notions, and types, kinds, and categories of being.\n\nThe Absolute is often thought of as causing to come into being manifestations that interact with lower or lesser forms of being. This is either done passively, through emanations, or actively, through avatars and incarnations. These existential manifestations, which themselves can possess transcendent attributes, only contain minuscule or infinitesimal portions of the true essence of The Absolute.\n\nThe term itself was not in use in ancient or medieval philosophy, but closely related to the description of God as \"Actus purus\" (Pure Actuality) in scholasticism. It was introduced in modern philosophy, notably by Hegel, for \"the sum of all being, actual and potential\".\nThe term has since also been adopted in perennial philosophy.\n\nThere are three general ways of conceiving the Absolute. The Absolute might be (1) the first and greatest being, (2) not a being at all but the \"ground\" of being, or (3) both the ground of being and a being.\n\nIn conception one the Absolute is the most true and intelligible reality. It can be spoken of and known. For example, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's Absolute Spirit is the most true reality. It is thinkable, speakable, and exists in the objective world by comprehending everything, including people, states, and world history.\n\nIn conception two the Absolute might be conceived of as utterly outside of all other reality and hence unintelligible. It cannot be known or spoken about. Plato's Socrates says that \"The Form of the Good\" is \"beyond being\", implying that it is even beyond thought, language, and normal categories of existence.\n\nSt. John of the Cross says:\nIn conception three the Absolute is seen as transcending duality and distinction. This concept of a fundamental reality that transcends or includes all other reality is usually (but not always) associated with divinity. While this conception initially seems contradictory, it has been highly influential. One way to understand this third conception is to consider the \"Tao Te Ching\".\n\nThese opening lines distinguish between two Taos. One is the \"eternal Tao\" (which cannot be named or explained) and the other \"Tao\" seems to exist in space and time (and can be named and explained). The eternal Tao is beyond existence and cannot be named or fully understood, while the other Tao exists and can be known. The eternal Tao is infinite; the other is finite. The eternal Tao is formless; the other is formed. The eternal Tao is transcendent; the other is immanent. The other \"Tao\" is an attempt to describe the \"eternal Tao\" in human terms; but such effort can never express the eternal Tao fully. He continues:\nIn these lines, he further discusses the difference between the two Taos. The eternal Tao is \"nameless\" and is the origin of Heaven and Earth; this origin can be understood as an underlying metaphysics that cannot be described fully. The \"named\" Tao, on the other hand, is able to describe specific phenomenons that exist in space and time, hence it is the mother of myriad of things; it also can be treated as the humanly conceived concepts in the effort to describe our physical world. Later, he points out that both the \"named\" and the \"nameless\" emerge together from the same eternal Tao. This seemingly self-contradictory unity, of course, is said to be the mystery to be understood.\n\nOne or more of these three conceptions of the Absolute can be found in various other religions or philosophies. The following is a list of concepts of divine or absolute reality:\n\nWhile these conceptions are superficially similar, they admit of multiple interpretations. Some philosophers, especially perennialists and pantheist philosophers, find great significance in the similarities between these different words and argue that various/all cultures past and present have an identical concept of the 'Absolute'.\n\nOther philosophers, however, argue that these concepts are not the same, since the Logos is rational and formal whereas Brahman is formless and irrational; and since Plato's Form of the Good is impersonal where the Christian God is personal; since Bradley's Absolute is a conscious experience whereas Brand Blanshard's Absolute is an unconscious, intelligible system.\n\nPerennialist philosophers such as John Hick argue that even if the concepts vary slightly, the reality of the Absolute reality behind the varying concepts is the same.\n\nPhilosophers such as Adi Shankara denied the Absolute any personal sense, whereas philosophers such as Ramanuja and Madhva, tended to identify the Absolute with a personal God. The Traditionalist School, via Frithjof Schuon, admits:It is true that God as creator, revealer, and savior is not to be identified with the Absolute as such; it is likewise true that God in Himself, in the full depth of His reality, is not to be reduced to the creative Function.Early Hinduism identified Brahman with Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva. The same immortal spirit was conceived of as functional in the world in three ways: creation, preservation, and destruction. There was therefore no real contradiction between love of a personal God and an impersonal Absolute, although the latter was sometimes conceived of as \"purer.\"\n\nShaivism, and most monotheistic Indian religions, gave God five functions: creation, preservation, destruction, concealment, and revelation. Shiva, as Brahman, would therefore act in the world as a personal God. Yet this distinction between the Absolute and Infinite, or Transcendent and Immanent is not entirely, in itself, absolute. Philosophers like Shankara believe that upon doing away with maya the entire universe disappears, including the notion of a personal God. Philosophers such as Madhva and Ramanuja, tend to propound an identification of the Absolute with God, whereas later philosophers such as Nimbarka and Caitanya, tended to identify the Absolute with a personal form of God (Krishna). Either way, all these claims, taken in context, tend to prove non-contradictory.\n\nThe quote above, via Schuon, is actually fully represented within the Hindu tradition. Brahma, the creator god, is not worshiped within Hinduism. The only deities that are worshiped, are Shiva, and Vishnu. Both Shiva and Vishnu, by their respective devotees, are represented as having power over the following five functions: creation, preservation, destruction, concealment, and revelation. However, a further distinction is made by Shankara: God is not Brahman (the Absolute). Rather the appearance of God is still via the power of Maya. So there are in effect, three levels, which Schuon himself observes: Brahman (the Absolute), God as creator, revealer, and savior (AKA, Shiva or Vishnu), and finally God as creator (AKA, Brahma). Incidental reasons are given for Brahma's lack of worship, a Hindu myth attributes this situation to a curse by Bhrigu. Devdutt Pattanaik, an Indian author, gives some philosophical reasons. Ultimately the reason is actually inherent (\"inherent\" in the Absolute) and theological.\n\nLaozi taught that the Tao was not only the ultimate reality but the ideal of human life. Another conceptual similarity between various conceptions is that the ultimate reality also somehow reveals to humans the way to live. For example, Plato taught that the Good was both the source of reality, the highest object of knowledge, and the ultimate end of desire.\n\nC. S. Lewis explains the connection between the highest reality and human action in this way:\nI. K. Taimni says:\nAldous Huxley says:\nSimilarly, the Hindu Taimni describes the Parabrahman as unknowable by the human mind and unthinkable but the highest object of realization and the most profound object of philosophical enquiry.\n\nPlotinus likewise taught that the goal of philosophy was to \"contemplate the One\".\n\nPhilosophers and religious adherents who aim to pattern their life after the Absolute reality sometimes claim to have experienced the Absolute. They report mystical experiences, feelings of oneness, transcendence of their everyday personality or of personhood altogether.\n\nThe Absolute is conceptually defined as something inexpressible and perhaps unthinkable. This concept creates special problems for expression in words, poetry, mythology, and art. Writers, painters, storytellers, filmmakers often use paradox or contradiction because of the \"contradictory aspect of the ultimate reality\".\n\nAccording to Mircea Eliade, the Absolute can be mediated or revealed through symbols. For Eliade the \"archaic\" mind is constantly aware of the presence of the Sacred, and for this mind all symbols are religious (relinking to the Origin). Through symbols human beings can get an immediate \"intuition\" of certain features of the inexhaustible Sacred. The mind makes use of images to grasp the ultimate reality of things because reality manifests itself in contradictory ways and therefore can't be described in concepts. It is therefore the image as such, as a whole bundle of meaning, that is \"true\" (faithful, trustworthy). Eliade says :\n\n...the \"sacred\" is equivalent to a \"power\", and, in the last analysis, to \"reality\". The sacred is saturated with \"being\". Sacred power means reality and at the same time enduringness and efficacy. The polarity sacred-profane is often expressed as opposition between real and \"unreal\" or pseudoreal. \"[...]\" Thus it is easy to understand that religious man deeply desires \"to be\", to participate in \"reality\", to be saturated with power.Common symbols of the Absolute include world trees, the tree of life, microcosm, fire, children, circles, mandalas, and the human body.\n\n"}
{"id": "12055142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12055142", "title": "Academic authorship", "text": "Academic authorship\n\nAcademic authorship of journal articles, books, and other original works is a means by which academics communicate the results of their scholarly work, establish priority for their discoveries, and build their reputation among their peers.\n\nAuthorship is a primary basis that employers use to evaluate academic personnel for employment, promotion, and tenure. In academic publishing, authorship of a work is claimed by those making intellectual contributions to the completion of the research described in the work. In simple cases, a solitary scholar carries out a research project and writes the subsequent article or book. In many disciplines, however, collaboration is the norm and issues of authorship can be controversial. In these contexts, authorship can encompass activities other than writing the article; a researcher who comes up with an experimental design and analyzes the data may be considered an author, even if she or he had little role in composing the text describing the results. According to some standards, even writing the entire article would not constitute authorship unless the writer was also involved in at least one other phase of the project.\n\nGuidelines for assigning authorship vary between institutions and disciplines. They may be formally defined or simply cultural custom. Incorrect application of authorship rules occasionally leads to charges of academic misconduct and sanctions for the violator. A 2002 survey of a large sample of researchers who had received funding from the U.S. National Institutes of Health revealed that 10% of respondents claimed to have inappropriately assigned authorship credit within the last three years. This was the first large scale survey concerning such issues. In other fields only limited or no empirical data is available.\n\nThe natural sciences have no universal standard for authorship, but some major multi-disciplinary journals and institutions have established guidelines for work that they publish. The journal \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America\" (\"PNAS\") has an editorial policy that specifies \"authorship should be limited to those who have contributed substantially to the work\" and furthermore, \"authors are strongly encouraged to indicate their specific contributions\" as a footnote. The American Chemical Society further specifies that authors are those who also \"share responsibility and accountability for the results\" and the U.S. National Academies specify \"an author who is willing to take credit for a paper must also bear responsibility for its contents. Thus, unless a footnote or the text of the paper explicitly assigns responsibility for different parts of the paper to different authors, the authors whose names appear on a paper must share responsibility for all of it.\"\n\nIn mathematics, the authors are usually listed in alphabetical order (this is the so-called Hardy-Littlewood Rule). This usage is described in the \"Information Statements on the Culture of Research and Scholarship in Mathematics\" section of the American Mathematical Society website, specifically the 2004 statement: \"Joint Research and Its Publication\".\n\nIn other branches of knowledge such as economics, business, finance or particle physics, it is also usual to sort the authors alphabetically.\n\nThe medical field defines authorship very narrowly. According to the Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals, designation as an author must satisfy four conditions. The author must have:\n\nAcquisition of funding, or general supervision of the research group alone does not constitute authorship. Many authors - especially those in the middle of the byline - do not fulfill these authorship criteria. Some medical journals have abandoned the strict notion of author, with the flexible notion of \"contributor\".\n\nBetween about 1980-2010 the average number of authors in medical papers increased, and perhaps tripled.\n\nThe American Psychological Association (APA) has similar guidelines as medicine for authorship. The APA acknowledge that authorship is not limited to the writing of manuscripts, but must include those who have made substantial contributions to a study such as \"formulating the problem or hypothesis, structuring the experimental design, organizing and conducting the statistical analysis, interpreting the results, or writing a major portion of the paper\". While the APA guidelines list many other forms of contributions to a study that do not constitute authorship, it does state that combinations of these and other tasks may justify authorship. Like medicine, the APA considers institutional position, such as Department Chair, insufficient for attributing authorship.\n\nNeither the Modern Languages Association nor the Chicago Manual of Style define requirements for authorship (because usually humanities works are single-authored and the author is responsible for the entire work).\n\nFrom the late 17th century to the 1920s, sole authorship was the norm, and the one-paper-one-author model worked well for distributing credit. Today, shared authorship is common in most academic disciplines, with the exception of the humanities, where sole authorship is still the predominant model. In particular types of research, including particle physics, genome sequencing and clinical trials, a paper's author list can run into the hundreds. In 1998, the Collider Detector at Fermilab (CDF) adopted a (at that time) highly unorthodox policy for assigning authorship. CDF maintains a \"standard author list\". All scientists and engineers working at CDF are added to the standard author list after one year of full-time work; names stay on the list until one year after the worker leaves CDF. Every publication coming out of CDF uses the entire standard author list, in alphabetical order. Other big collaborations, including most particle physics experiments, followed this model. In large, multi-center clinical trials authorship is often used as a reward for recruiting patients.\n\nA paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1993 reported on a clinical trial conducted in 1,081 hospitals in 15 different countries, involving a total of 41,021 patients. There were 972 authors listed in an appendix and authorship was assigned to a group. In 2015, an article in high-energy physics was published describing the measurement of the mass of the Higgs boson based on collisions in the Large Hadron Collider; the article boasted 5,154 authors, the printed author list needed 24 pages.\n\nLarge authors lists have attracted some criticism. They strain guidelines that insist that each author's role be described and that each author is responsible for the validity of the whole work. Such a system treats authorship more as \"credit\" for scientific service at the facility in general rather that as an identification of specific contributions. One commentator wrote, \"In more than 25 years working as a scientific editor ... I have not been aware of any valid argument for more than three authors per paper, although I recognize that this may not be true for every field.\" The rise of shared authorship has been attributed to Big Science—scientific experiments that require collaboration and specialization of many individuals.\n\nAlternatively, the increase in multi-authorship might be a consequence of the way scientists are evaluated. Traditionally, scientists were judged by the number of papers they published, and later by the impact of those papers. The former is an estimate of quantity and the latter of quality. Both methods were adequate when single authorship was the norm, but vastly inflate individual contribution when papers are multi-authored. When each author claims each paper and each citation as his/her own, papers and citations are magically multiplied by the number of authors. Furthermore, there is no cost to giving authorship to individuals who made only minor contribution and, actually, there is an incentive to do so. Hence, the system rewards heavily multi-authored papers. This problem is openly acknowledged, and it could easily be \"corrected\" by dividing each paper and its citations by the number of authors.\n\nFinally, the rise in shared authorship may also reflect increased acknowledgment of the contributions of lower level workers, including graduate students and technicians, as well as honorary authorship, while allowing for such collaborations to make an independent statement about the quality and integrity of a scientific work.\n\n\"Honorary authorship\" is sometimes granted to those who played no significant role in the work, for a variety of reasons. Until recently, it was standard to list the head of a German department or institution as an author on a paper regardless of input. The United States National Academy of Sciences, however, warns that such practices \"dilute the credit due the people who actually did the work, inflate the credentials of those so 'honored,' and make the proper attribution of credit more difficult.\" The extent to which honorary authorship still occurs is not empirically known. However, it is plausible to expect that it is still widespread, because senior scientists leading large research groups can receive much of their reputation from a long publication list and thus have little motivation to give up honorary authorships.\n\nA possible measure against honorary authorships has been implemented by some scientific journals, in particular by the \"Nature\" journals. They demand that each new manuscript must include a statement of responsibility that specifies the contribution of every author. The level of detail varies between the disciplines. Senior persons may still make some vague claim to have \"supervised the project\", for example, even if they were only in the formal position of a supervisor without having delivered concrete contributions. (The truth content of such statements is usually not checked by independent persons.) However, the need to describe contributions can at least be expected to somewhat reduce honorary authorships. In addition, it may help to identify the perpetrator in a case of scientific fraud.\n\n\"Ghost authorship\" occurs when an individual makes a substantial contribution to the research or the writing of the report, but is not listed as an author. Researchers, statisticians and writers (e.g. medical writers or technical writers) become \"ghost authors\" when they meet authorship criteria but are not named as an author. Writers who work in this capacity are called ghostwriters.\n\nGhost authorship has been linked to partnerships between industry and higher education. Two-thirds of industry-initiated randomized trials may have evidence of ghost authorship.\nGhost authorship is considered problematic because it may be used to obscure the participation of researchers with conflicts of interest.\n\nLitigation against the pharmaceutical company, Merck over health concerns related to use of their drug, Rofecoxib (brand name Vioxx), revealed examples of ghost authorship.\nMerck routinely paid medical writing companies to prepare journal manuscripts, and subsequently recruited external, academically affiliated researchers to pose as the authors.\n\nAuthors are sometimes included in a list without their permission.\nEven if this is done with the benign intention to acknowledge some contributions, it is problematic since authors carry responsibility for correctness and thus need to have the opportunity to check the manuscript and possibly demand changes.\n\nRules for the order of multiple authors in a list have historically varied significantly between fields of research. Some fields list authors in order of their degree of involvement in the work, with the most active contributors listed first; other fields, such as mathematics or engineering (e.g., control theory), sometimes list them alphabetically. Historically biologists tended to place a principal investigator (supervisor or lab head) last in an author list whereas organic chemists might have put him or her first. Research articles in high energy physics, where the author lists can number in the tens to hundreds, often list authors alphabetically. In Computer Science in general the principal contributor is the first in the author list. However, the practice of putting the principal investigator last in the author list has increasingly become an accepted standard across most areas in science and engineering.\n\nAlthough listing authors in order of the involvement in the project seems straightforward, it often leads to conflict. A study in the Canadian Medical Association Journal found that more than two-thirds of 919 corresponding authors disagreed with their coauthors regarding contributions of each author.\n\nAuthors' reputations can be damaged if their names appear on a paper that they do not completely understand or with which they were not intimately involved. Numerous guidelines and customs specify that all co-authors must be able to understand and support a paper's major points.\n\nIn a notable case, American stem-cell researcher Gerald Schatten had his name listed on a paper co-authored with Hwang Woo-suk. The paper was later exposed as fraudulent and, though Schatten was not accused of participating in the fraud, a panel at his university found that \"his failure to more closely oversee research with his name on it does make him guilty of 'research misbehavior.'\"\n\nAll authors, including co-authors, are usually expected to have made reasonable attempts to check findings submitted for publication. In some cases, co-authors of faked research have been accused of inappropriate behavior or research misconduct for failing to verify reports authored by others or by a commercial sponsor. Examples include the case of Professor Geoffrey Chamberlain named as guest author of papers fabricated by Malcolm Pearce, (Chamberlain was exonerated from collusion in Pearce's deception) and the co-authors of Jan Hendrik Schön at Bell Laboratories. More recent cases include Charles Nemeroff, former editor-in-chief of \"Neuropsychopharmacology\", and the so-called Sheffield Actonel affair.\n\nAdditionally, authors are expected to keep all study data for later examination even after publication. Both scientific and academic censure can result from a failure to keep primary data; the case of Ranjit Chandra of Memorial University of Newfoundland provides an example of this. Many scientific journals also require that authors provide information to allow readers to determine whether the authors may have commercial or non-commercial conflicts of interest. Outlined in the author disclosure statement for the \"American Journal of Human Biology\", this is a policy more common in scientific fields where funding often comes from corporate sources. Authors are also commonly required to provide information about ethical aspects of research, particularly where research involves human or animal participants or use of biological material. Provision of incorrect information to journals may be regarded as misconduct. Financial pressures on universities have encouraged this type of misconduct. The majority of recent cases of alleged misconduct involving undisclosed conflicts of interest or failure of the authors to have seen scientific data involve collaborative research between scientists and biotechnology companies.\n\nAuthors occasionally forgo claiming authorship, for a number of reasons. Historically some authors have published anonymously to shield themselves when presenting controversial claims. A key example is Robert Chambers' anonymous publication of Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation, a speculative, pre-Darwinian work on the origins of life and the cosmos. The book argued for an evolutionary view of life in the same spirit as the late Frenchman Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Lamarck had long been discredited among intellectuals by this time and evolutionary (or development) theories were exceedingly unpopular, except among the political radicals, materialists, and atheists - Chambers hoped to avoid Lamarck's fate.\n\nIn the 18th century, Émilie du Châtelet began her career as a scientific author by submitting a paper in an annual competition held by the French Academy of Sciences; papers in this competition were submitted anonymously. Initially presenting her work without claiming authorship allowed her to have her work judged by established scientists while avoiding the bias against women in the sciences. She did not win the competition, but eventually her paper was published alongside the winning submissions, under her real name.\n\nScientists and engineers working in corporate and military organizations are often restricted from publishing and claiming authorship of their work because their results are considered secret property of the organization that employs them. One notable example is that of William Gosset, who was forced to publish his work in statistics under the pseudonym “Student” due to his employment at the Guinness brewery. Another account describes the frustration of physicists working in nuclear weapons programs at the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory – years after making a discovery they would read of the same phenomenon being \"discovered\" by a physicist unaware of the original, secret discovery of the phenomenon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36501791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36501791", "title": "Alanus University of Arts and Social Sciences", "text": "Alanus University of Arts and Social Sciences\n\nAlanus University of Arts and Social Sciences (\"Alanus Hochschule für Kunst und Gesellschaft\") is a state-accredited private university in Alfter (near Bonn), Germany, providing education in the arts and social sciences up to doctorate level. It has offered accredited arts degrees since 2003 and other degrees since 2006. In 2010, the university was awarded institutional accreditation and the right to award doctorates by the German Council of Science and Humanities.\n\nThe university was founded as an anthroposophical art school in 1973. In cooperation with Rudolf Steiner University College, it publishes the international academic journal \"Research on Steiner Education\".\n"}
{"id": "881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=881", "title": "Allegiance", "text": "Allegiance\n\nAn allegiance is a duty of fidelity said to be owed, or freely committed, by the people, subjects or citizens to their state or sovereign.\n\nFrom Middle English \"ligeaunce\" (see medieval Latin \"ligeantia\", \"a liegance\"). The \"al-\" prefix was probably added through confusion with another legal term, \"allegeance\", an \"allegation\" (the French \"allegeance\" comes from the English). \"Allegiance\" is formed from \"liege,\" from Old French \"liege\", \"liege, free\", of Germanic origin. The connection with Latin \"ligare\", \"to bind,\" is erroneous.\n\nTraditionally, English legal commentators used the term \"allegiance\" in two ways. In one sense, it referred to the deference which anyone, even foreigners, was expected to pay to the institutions of the country where one lived. In the other sense, it meant national character and the subjection due to that character.\n\n\nThe English doctrine, which was at one time adopted in the United States, asserted that allegiance was indelible: \"Nemo potest exuere patriam\". As the law stood prior to 1870, every person who by birth or naturalisation satisfied the conditions set forth, (though he should be removed in infancy to another country where his family resided), owed an allegiance to the British crown which he/she could never resign or lose, except by act of parliament or by the recognition of the independence or the cession of the portion of British territory in which he resided.\n\nThis refusal to accept any renunciation of allegiance to the Crown led to conflict with the United States over impressment, which led to further conflicts during the War of 1812, when thirteen Irish American prisoners of war were executed as traitors after the Battle of Queenston Heights; Winfield Scott urged American reprisal, but none was carried out.\n\nAllegiance is the tie which binds the subject to the Sovereign in return for that protection which the Sovereign affords the subject. It was the mutual bond and obligation between monarch and subjects, whereby subjects are called his liege subjects, because they are bound to obey and serve him; and he is called their liege lord, because he should maintain and defend them (\"Ex parte Anderson\" (1861) 3 El & El 487; 121 ER 525; \"China Navigation Co v Attorney-General\" (1932) 48 TLR 375; \"Attorney-General v Nissan\" [1969] 1 All ER 629; \"Oppenheimer v Cattermole\" [1972] 3 All ER 1106). The duty of the Crown towards its subjects is to govern and protect. The reciprocal duty of the subject towards the Crown is that of allegiance.\n\nAt common law, allegiance is a true and faithful obedience of the subject due to his Sovereign. As the subject owes to his king his true and faithful allegiance and obedience, so the Sovereign\n\n\nNatural allegiance and obedience is an incident inseparable to every subject, for parte Anderson (1861) 3 El & El 487; 121 ER 525). Natural-born subjects owe allegiance wherever they may be. Where territory is occupied in the course of hostilities by an enemy's force, even if the annexation of the occupied country is proclaimed by the enemy, there can be no change of allegiance during the progress of hostilities on the part of a citizen of the occupied country (\"R v Vermaak\" (1900) 21 NLR 204 (South Africa)).\n\nAllegiance is owed both to the Sovereign as a natural person and to the Sovereign in the political capacity (\"Re Stepney Election Petition, Isaacson v Durant\" (1886) 17 QBD 54 (per Lord Coleridge CJ)). Attachment to the person of the reigning Sovereign is not sufficient. Loyalty requires affection also to the office of the Sovereign, attachment to royalty, attachment to the law and to the constitution of the realm, and he who would, by force or by fraud, endeavour to prostrate that law and constitution, though he may retain his affection for its head, can boast but an imperfect and spurious species of loyalty (\"R v O'Connell\" (1844) 7 ILR 261).\n\nThere were four kinds of allegiances (\"Rittson v Stordy\" (1855) 3 Sm & G 230; \"De Geer v Stone\" (1882) 22 Ch D 243; \"Isaacson v Durant\" (1886) 54 LT 684; \"Gibson, Gavin v Gibson\" [1913] 3 KB 379; \"Joyce v DPP\" [1946] AC 347; \"Collingwood v Pace\" (1661) O Bridg 410; \"Lane v Bennett\" (1836) 1 M & W 70; \"Lyons Corp v East India Co\" (1836) 1 Moo PCC 175; \"Birtwhistle v Vardill\" (1840) 7 Cl & Fin 895; \"R v Lopez, R v Sattler\" (1858) Dears & B 525; Ex p Brown (1864) 5 B & S 280);\n\n(a) \"Ligeantia naturalis, absoluta, pura et indefinita\", and this originally is due by nature and birthright, and is called \"alta ligeantia\", and those that owe this are called \"subditus natus\";\n\n(b) \"Ligeantia acquisita\", not by nature but by acquisition or denization, being called a denizen, or rather denizon, because they are \"subditus datus\";\n\n(c) \"Ligeantia localis\", by operation of law, when a friendly alien enters the country, because so long as they are in the country they are within the Sovereign's protection, therefore they owe the Sovereign a local obedience or allegiance (\"R v Cowle\" (1759) 2 Burr 834; \"Low v Routledge\" (1865) 1 Ch App 42; \"Re Johnson, Roberts v Attorney-General\" [1903] 1 Ch 821; \"Tingley v Muller\" [1917] 2 Ch 144; \"Rodriguez v Speyer\" [1919] AC 59; \"Johnstone v Pedlar\" [1921] 2 AC 262; \"R v Tucker\" (1694) Show Parl Cas 186; \"R v Keyn\" (1876) 2 Ex D 63; \"Re Stepney Election Petn, Isaacson v Durant\" (1886) 17 QBD 54);\n\n(d) A legal obedience, where a particular law requires the taking of an oath of allegiance by subject or alien alike.\n\nNatural allegiance was acquired by birth within the Sovereign's dominions (except for the issue of diplomats or of invading forces or of an alien in an enemy occupied territory). The natural allegiance and obedience are an incident inseparable from every subject, for as soon as they are born they owe by birthright allegiance and obedience to the Sovereign (\"Ex p. Anderson\" (1861) 3 E & E 487). A natural-born subject owes allegiance wherever they may be, so that where territory is occupied in the course of hostilities by an enemy's force, even if the annexation of the occupied country is proclaimed by the enemy, there can be no change of allegiance during the progress of hostilities on the part of a citizen of the occupied country (\"R v Vermaak\" (1900) 21 NLR 204 (South Africa)).\n\nAcquired allegiance was acquired by naturalisation or denization. Denization, or \"ligeantia acquisita\", appears to be threefold (\"Thomas v Sorrel\" (1673) 3 Keb 143);\n\n\nLocal allegiance was due by an alien while in the protection of the Crown. All friendly resident aliens incurred all the obligations of subjects (\"The Angelique\" (1801) 3 Ch Rob App 7). An alien, coming into a colony also became, temporarily a subject of the Crown, and acquired rights both within and beyond the colony, and these latter rights could not be affected by the laws of that colony (\"Routledge v Low\" (1868) LR 3 HL 100; 37 LJ Ch 454; 18 LT 874; 16 WR 1081, HL; \"Reid v Maxwell\" (1886) 2 TLR 790; \"Falcon v Famous Players Film Co\" [1926] 2 KB 474).\n\nA resident alien owed allegiance even when the protection of the Crown was withdrawn owing to the occupation of an enemy, because the absence of the Crown's protection was temporary and involuntary (\"de Jager v Attorney-General of Natal\" [1907] AC 326).\n\nLegal allegiance was due when an alien took an oath of allegiance required for a particular office under the Crown.\n\nBy the Naturalisation Act 1870, it was made possible for British subjects to renounce their nationality and allegiance, and the ways in which that nationality is lost are defined. So British subjects voluntarily naturalized in a foreign state are deemed aliens from the time of such naturalization, unless, in the case of persons naturalized before the passing of the act, they have declared their desire to remain British subjects within two years from the passing of the act. Persons who from having been born within British territory are British subjects, but who at birth became under the law of any foreign state subjects of such state, and also persons who though born abroad are British subjects by reason of parentage, may by declarations of alienage get rid of British nationality. Emigration to an uncivilized country leaves British nationality unaffected: indeed the right claimed by all states to follow with their authority their subjects so emigrating is one of the usual and recognized means of colonial expansion.\n\nThe doctrine that no man can cast off his native allegiance without the consent of his sovereign was early abandoned in the United States, and Chief Justice John Rutledge also declared in Talbot v. Janson, \"a man may, at the same time, enjoy the rights of citizenship under two governments.\" On July 27, 1868, the day before the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted, U.S. Congress declared in the preamble of the Expatriation Act that \"the right of expatriation is a natural and inherent right of all people, indispensable to the enjoyment of the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness,\" and (Section I) one of \"the fundamental principles of this government\" (United States Revised Statutes, sec. 1999). Every natural-born citizen of a foreign state who is also an American citizen and every natural-born American citizen who is a citizen of a foreign land owes a double allegiance, one to the United States, and one to his homeland (in the event of an immigrant becoming a citizen of the US), or to his adopted land (in the event of an emigrant natural born citizen of the US becoming a citizen of another nation). If these allegiances come into conflict, he or she may be guilty of treason against one or both. If the demands of these two sovereigns upon his duty of allegiance come into conflict, those of the United States have the paramount authority in American law; likewise, those of the foreign land have paramount authority in their legal system. In such a situation, it may be incumbent on the individual to renounce one of his citizenships to avoid possibly being forced into situations where countervailing duties are required of him, such as might occur in the event of war.\n\nThe oath of allegiance is an oath of fidelity to the sovereign taken by all persons holding important public office and as a condition of naturalization. By ancient common law, it might be required of all persons above the age of 12, and it was repeatedly used as a test for the disaffected. In England, it was first imposed by statute in the reign of Elizabeth I of England (1558) and its form has more than once been altered since. Up to the time of the revolution, the promise was, \"to be true and faithful to the king and his heirs, and truth and faith to bear of life and limb and terrene honour, and not to know or hear of any ill or damage intended him without defending him therefrom.\" This was thought to favour the doctrine of absolute non-resistance, and accordingly, the Convention Parliament enacted the form that has been in use since that time – \"I do sincerely promise and swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty ...\"\n\nIn the United States and some other republics, the oath is known as the Pledge of Allegiance. Instead of declaring fidelity to a monarch, the pledge is made to the flag, the republic, and to the core values of the country, specifically liberty and justice. The reciting of the pledge in the United States is voluntary because of the rights guaranteed to the people under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe word used in the Arabic language for allegiance is \"bay'at\" (Arabic: بيعة), which means \"taking hand\". The practice is sanctioned in the Quran by Surah 48:10: \"Verily, those who give thee their allegiance, they give it but to Allah Himself\". The word is used for the oath of allegiance to an emir. It is also used for the initiation ceremony specific to many Sufi orders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37568781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37568781", "title": "Argument from authority", "text": "Argument from authority\n\nAn argument from authority, (\"argumentum ab auctoritate\"), also called an appeal to authority, or argumentum ad verecundiam is a form of defeasible argument in which a claimed authority's support is used as evidence for an argument's conclusion. It is well known as a fallacy, though it is used in a cogent form when all sides of a discussion agree on the reliability of the authority in the given context.\n\nHistorically, opinion on the appeal to authority has been divided: it is listed as a valid argument as often as a fallacious argument in various sources, with some holding that it is a strong argument which \"has a legitimate force\", and others that it is weak or an outright fallacy where, on a conflict of facts, \"mere appeal to authority alone had better be avoided\".\n\nIf all parties agree on the reliability of an authority in the given context it forms a valid inductive argument.\n\nScientific knowledge is best established by evidence and experiment rather than argued through authority as authority has no place in science. Carl Sagan wrote of arguments from authority: One of the great commandments of science is, \"Mistrust arguments from authority.\" ... Too many such arguments have proved too painfully wrong. Authorities must prove their contentions like everybody else.\n\nAn example of the use of the appeal to authority in science can be seen in 1923, when leading American zoologist Theophilus Painter declared, based on poor data and conflicting observations he had made, that humans had 24 pairs of chromosomes. From the 1920s to the 1950s, this continued to be held based on Painter's authority, despite subsequent counts totaling the correct number of 23. Even textbooks with photos showing 23 pairs incorrectly declared the number to be 24 based on the authority of the then-consensus of 24 pairs.\n\nThis seemingly established number created confirmation bias among researchers, and \"most cytologists, expecting to detect Painter's number, virtually always did so\". Painter's \"influence was so great that many scientists preferred to believe his count over the actual evidence\", and scientists who obtained the accurate number modified or discarded their data to agree with Painter's count.\n\nA more recent example involved the \"When contact changes minds: An experiment on transmission of support for gay equality\" paper. The paper was a fraud based on forged data, yet concerns about it were ignored in many cases due to appeals to authority. One analysis of the affair notes that \"Over and over again, throughout the scientific community and the media, LaCour’s impossible-seeming results were treated as truth, in part because of the weight [the study's co-author] Green’s name carried\". One psychologist stated his reaction to the paper was \"that’s very surprising and doesn’t fit with a huge literature of evidence. It doesn’t sound plausible to me... [then I pull it up and] I see Don Green is an author. I trust him completely, so I’m no longer doubtful\". The forger, LaCour, would use appeals to authority to defend his research: \"if his responses sometimes seemed to lack depth when he was pressed for details, his impressive connections often allayed concerns\", with one of his partners stating \"when he and I really had a disagreement, he would often rely on the kind of arguments where he’d basically invoke authority, right? He’s the one with advanced training, and his adviser is this very high-powered, very experienced person...and they know a lot more than we do\".\n\nMuch like the erroneous chromosome number taking decades to refute until microscopy made the error unmistakable, the one who would go on to debunk this paper \"was consistently told by friends and advisers to keep quiet about his concerns lest he earn a reputation as a troublemaker\", up until \"the very last moment when multiple 'smoking guns' finally appeared\", and he found that \"There was almost no encouragement for him to probe the hints of weirdness he’d uncovered\".\n\nFallacious arguments from authority are also frequently the result of citing a non-authority as an authority. An example of the fallacy of appealing to an authority in an unrelated field would be citing Albert Einstein as an authority for a determination on religion when his primary expertise was in physics. The body of attributed authorities might not even welcome their citation, such as with the \"More Doctors Smoke Camels\" ad campaign.\n\nIt is also a fallacious \"ad hominem\" argument to argue that a person presenting statements lacks authority and thus their arguments do not need to be considered. As appeals to a perceived lack of authority, these types of argument are fallacious for much the same reasons as an appeal to authority.\n\nOther related fallacious arguments assume that a person without status or authority is inherently reliable. For instance, the appeal to poverty is the fallacy of thinking that someone is more likely to be correct because they are poor. When an argument holds that a conclusion is likely to be true precisely because the one who holds or is presenting it lacks authority, it is a fallacious \"appeal to the common man\".\n\nThe argument from authority is based on the idea that a perceived authority must know better and that the person should conform to their opinion. This has its roots in psychological cognitive biases such as the Asch effect. In repeated and modified instances of the Asch conformity experiments, it was found that high-status individuals create a stronger likelihood of a subject agreeing with an obviously false conclusion, despite the subject normally being able to clearly see that the answer was incorrect.\n\nFurther, humans have been shown to feel strong emotional pressure to conform to authorities and majority positions. A repeat of the experiments by another group of researchers found that \"Participants reported considerable distress under the group pressure\", with 59% conforming at least once and agreeing with the clearly incorrect answer, whereas the incorrect answer was much more rarely given when no such pressures were present.\n\nAnother study shining light on the psychological basis of the fallacy as it relates to perceived authorities are the Milgram experiments, which demonstrated that people are more likely to go along with something when it is presented by an authority. In a variation of a study where the researchers did not wear a lab coat, thus reducing the perceived authority of the tasker, the obedience level dropped to 20% from the original rate, which had been higher than 50%. Obedience is encouraged by reminding the individual of what a perceived authority states and by showing them that their opinion goes against this authority.\n\nScholars have noted that certain environments can produce an ideal situation for these processes to take hold, giving rise to groupthink. In groupthink, individuals in a group feel inclined to minimize conflict and encourage conformity. Through an appeal to authority, a group member might present that opinion as a consensus and encourage the other group members to engage in groupthink by not disagreeing with this perceived consensus or authority. One paper about the philosophy of mathematics for example notes that, within academia, If...a person accepts our discipline, and goes through two or three years of graduate study in mathematics, he absorbs our way of thinking, and is no longer the critical outsider he once was...If the student is unable to absorb our way of thinking, we flunk him out, of course. If he gets through our obstacle course and then decides that our arguments are unclear or incorrect, we dismiss him as a crank, crackpot, or misfit.\n\nCorporate environments are similarly vulnerable to appeals to perceived authorities and experts leading to groupthink, as are governments and militaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "41240245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41240245", "title": "At-Turtushi", "text": "At-Turtushi\n\n'Abu Bakr Muhammad at-Turtushi () (1059 – 1126 CE; 451 AH – 520 AH ), better known as At-Turtushi was one of the most prominent Andalusian political philosophers of the twelfth century. His book Kitāb Sirāj al-Mulūk (The Lamp of Kings) was one of the most important works of political theory to be produced in the medieval Islamic world. At-Turtushi was also an accomplished jurist in the Maliki school.\n\nِAbu Bakr was born in Tortosa in 1059 in the northern region of Al-Andalus at the Ebro Delta, at a time when the region had become increasingly fragmented and was divided into various taifa kingdoms. He first traveled to Zaragoza, where he became a student under Abu al-Walid al-Baji, a famous scholar and poet. While in Spain, he also familiarised himself with the philosophical and political treatises of the Andalusian polymath Ibn Hazm.\n\nHe travelled for knowledge, seeking to educate himself from various scholars in different part of the Muslim world and went as far east as Baghdad. On his way he also stopped at Damascus, Aleppo, Cairo, and Alexandria. He eventually settled in Fatimid Alexandria, where he taught at a madrassa. At-Turtushi strongly opposed the Ismaili ideology of the Fatimid dynasty in Egypt. He also issued a fatwa for Yusuf Ibn Tashfin, the Almoravid ruler of Al-Andulus (Muslim Spain) that allowed him to invade Spain and depose of the divided Taifa kingdoms. His most famous work was \"Siraj al-Muluk\" (سراج الملوك) (The Lamp of Kings) an important treatise on political theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52306477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52306477", "title": "Baddha padmasana", "text": "Baddha padmasana\n\nThe Baddha Padmasana or Bounded Lotus Pose is a variation of the cross legged sitting meditative asana called Padmasana. Baddha means bounded in Sanskrit and, as the name suggests, this asana is a bounded form of Padmasana. This asana improves flexibility of the joints of the lower extremities, helps the circulation of legs, helps to correct postural deformities, and improves concentration.\n\nFrom the common sitting down on the floor (Indian Style, Cross-legged) position (asana), one foot is placed on top of the opposite thigh with its sole facing upward and heel close to the abdomen. The other foot is then lifted up slowly and placed on the opposite thigh in a symmetrical way. This is Padmasana.\n\nOne hand then reaches behind the back and catches hold of the same foot with the index and middle finger of the hand. This is then slowly done with the other hand. In the final position, the person doing the asana is constrained because of holding the feet with the hands coming from behind the back.\n\nThe range of shoulder movement is increased due to crossing of hands behind the back.\n\nIt is generally not recommended for people with knee and ankle pain to attempt this asana.\n\n"}
{"id": "5390500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5390500", "title": "Botton, North Yorkshire", "text": "Botton, North Yorkshire\n\nBotton is a small village within the North York Moors National Park in North Yorkshire, England which is mainly a Camphill Community for people with learning disabilities.\n\nBotton was founded in 1955 on the initiative of the Camphill community in Scotland and initial direction of Peter Roth. It was the first organisation of its kind within the anthroposophical social therapeutic work specifically for people with disability after they reached adulthood.\nIt is home to more than 230 people, around 100 of whom are adults with learning disabilities. Many people who live there, live in shared family-style homes together with co-workers, others are supported in shared accommodation with friends or live independently. There are five biodynamic farms located around the village. The community works together on these farms, each person contributing according to his or her ability.\n\nIn the village there are many different workshops where villagers make products which are sold to the public via a number of outlets. There are also three shops: a gift shop, for visitors, with items from both Botton and other Camphill villages; a village store, which is the village food shop and a \"Coffee Bar\" where the villagers and co-workers congregate in the evening to chat and play board games.\n\nBotton village received the Deputy Prime Minister's Award for Sustainable Communities in 2005; the award cited the community's dedication to the ethos of sustainability and mutual respect, as well as their concrete achievements in these areas. Also in 2005, the village featured in a Channel 4 documentary entitled \"Botton, the strangest village in Britain\".\n\nSome members of the local and surrounding community have been in dispute with the charity that runs the village, the Camphill Village Trust (CVT), taking their case to the High Court. However, following mediation at the beginning of July 2015, both sides are working to find a positive way forward for the community. They will return to review progress with the mediator early in 2016. The dispute centred on whether the historic model of volunteer co-workers receiving financial and other benefits from the charity, instead of a salary, in return for living and working in Botton, was acceptable to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC).\n\nAction for Botton – the group campaigning with Botton co-workers for the retention of the voluntary co-worker model – believes that, in introducing paid employment for co-worker's services, the charity is acting against its own founding principles. They highlight many other Camphill Communities that continue to operate the co-worker model. Action for Botton also have letters stating that HMRC do not require volunteer co-workers to be employed Financial Secretary to the Treasury David Gauke writes: \"I would like to make it clear that that there has been no recent change in legislation, nor change in rules by HMRC, which affect the tax status of volunteer workers. It appears that changes being introduced by the CVT are as a result of independent advice received by the Trust, and not as a result of any direct or indirect action by HMRC.\"\n\nHowever, a letter from HMRC to the CVT, dated 1 December 2014 and published on the Trust's Facebook page indicates otherwise, stating that \"HMRC has now provided its Status Opinion in relation to the co-workers within the CVT which is that in our view those co-workers will be employees with effect from 6 April 2015. Consequently our view is that it is now incumbent on the Trustees and Directors of the CVT to take appropriate action mindful of their respectful fiduciary duties.\"\n\nAction for Botton's main concern was that the move to paid employment would prevent co-workers from continuing to share their homes with learning disabled people in the way they had since Botton was established. During the mediation process, the Trust reaffirmed its commitment to shared living and co-working, within a mixed portfolio of living and care options available to the people it supports.\n\n"}
{"id": "1072573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072573", "title": "Calculus of negligence", "text": "Calculus of negligence\n\nIn the United States, the calculus of negligence, also known as the Hand rule, Hand formula, or BPL formula, is a term coined by Judge Learned Hand and describes a process for determining whether a legal duty of care has been breached (see negligence). The original description of the calculus was in \"United States v. Carroll Towing Co.\", in which an improperly secured barge had drifted away from a pier and caused damage to several other boats.\n\nHand stated:\n\nThis relationship has been formalized by the law and economics school as such: an act is in breach of the duty of care if:\n\nwhere \"B\" is the cost (burden) of taking precautions, and \"P\" is the probability of loss (\"L\"). \"L\" is the gravity of loss. The product of P x L must be a greater amount than B to create a duty of due care for the defendant.\n\nThe calculus of negligence is based on the Coase theorem. The tort system acts as if, before the injury or damage, a contract had been made between the parties under the assumption that a rational, cost-minimizing individual will not spend money on taking precautions if those precautions are more expensive than the costs of the harm that they prevent. In other words, rather than spending money on safety, the individual will simply allow harm to occur and pay for the costs of that harm, because that will be more cost-efficient than taking precautions. This represents cases where B is greater than PL.\n\nIf the harm could be avoided for \"less\" than the cost of the harm (B is less than PL), then the individual \"should\" take the precautions, rather than allowing the harm to occur. If precautions were not taken, we find that a legal duty of care has been breached, and we impose liability on the individual to pay for the harm.\n\nThis approach, in theory, leads to an optimal allocation of resources; where harm can be cheaply avoided, the legal system requires precautions. Where precautions are prohibitively expensive, it does not. In marginal-cost terms, we require individuals to invest one unit of precautions up until the point that those precautions prevent exactly one unit of harm, and no less.\n\nCritics point out that term \"gravity of loss (L)\" is vague, and could entail a wide variety of damages, from a scratched fender to several dead victims. Even then, on top of that, how exactly a juror should determine a value for such a loss is abstract in itself. The speculative nature of the rule also seizes upon how a juror should determine the probability of loss (P).\n\nAdditionally, the rule fails to account for possible alternatives, whether it be the use of alternate methods to reach the same outcome, or abandoning the risky activity altogether.\n\nHuman teams estimating risk need to guard against judgment errors, cf. absolute probability judgement.\n\nIn the U.S., juries, with guidance from the court, decide what particular acts or omissions constitute negligence, so a reference to the standard of ordinary care removes the need to discuss this moot \"rule\". Juries are not told this \"rule\" but essentially use their common sense to decide what an ordinarily careful person would have done under the circumstances. The \"calculus of negligence\" has less practical value for the lay researcher seeking to understand how the courts actually determine negligence cases in the United States than the jury instructions used by the courts in the individual states.\n\nOutside legal proceedings, this rule is the core premise of insurance, risk management, quality assurance, information security and privacy practices. It factors into due care and due diligence decisions in business risk. Restrictions exist in the cases where the loss applies to human life or the probability of adverse finding in court cases. One famous case of abuse by industry in recent years related to the Ford Pinto.\n\nQuality assurance techniques extend the use of probability and loss to include uncertainty bounds in each quantity and possible interactions between uncertainty in probability and impact for two purposes. First, to more accurately model customer acceptance and process reliability to produce wanted outcomes. Second, to seek cost effective factors either up or down stream of the event that produce better results at sustainably reduced costs. Example, simply providing a protective rail near a cliff also includes quality manufacture features of the rail as part of the solution. Reasonable signs warning of the risk before persons reach the cliff may actually be more effective in reducing fatalities than the rail itself.\n\nIn Australia, the calculus of negligence is a normative judgement with no formula or rule.\n\nIn NSW, the test is how a reasonable person (or other standard of care) would respond to the risk in the circumstances considering the 'probability that the harm would occur if care were not taken' and, 'the likely seriousness of the harm', 'the burden of taking precautions to avoid the risk of harm', and the 'social utility of the activity that creates the risk of harm'. State and Territory legislatures require that the social utility of the activity that creates the risk of harm be taken into account in determining whether or not a reasonable person would have taken precautions against that risk of harm. For example, in \"Haris v Bulldogs Rugby League Club Limited\" the court considered the social utility of holding football matches when determining whether a football club took sufficient precautions to protect spectators from the risk of being struck by fireworks set off as part of the entertainment during a game.\n"}
{"id": "30040515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30040515", "title": "Chimeric gene", "text": "Chimeric gene\n\nChimeric genes (literally, made of parts from different sources) form through the combination of portions of two or more coding sequences to produce new genes. These mutations are distinct from fusion genes which merge whole gene sequences into a single reading frame and often retain their original functions.\n\nChimeric genes can form through several different means. Many chimeric genes form through errors in DNA replication or DNA repair so that pieces of two different genes are inadvertently combined. Chimeric genes can also form through retrotransposition where a retrotransposon accidentally copies the transcript of a gene and inserts it into the genome in a new location. Depending on where the new retrogene appears, it can recruit new exons to produce a chimeric gene. Finally, ectopic recombination, when there is an exchange between portions of the genome that are not actually related, can also produce chimeric genes. This process occurs often in human genomes, and abnormal chimeras formed by this process are known to cause color blindness.\n\nChimeric genes are important players in the evolution of genetic novelty. Much like gene duplications, they provide a source of new genes, which can allow organisms to develop new phenotypes and adapt to their environment. Unlike duplicate genes, chimeric proteins are immediately distinct from their parental genes, and therefore are more likely to produce entirely new functions. \n\nChimeric fusion proteins form often in genomes, and many of these are likely to be dysfunctional and eliminated by natural selection. However, in some cases, these new peptides can form fully functional gene products that are selectively favored and spread through populations quickly.\n\nOne of the most well known chimeric genes was identified in Drosophila and has been named Jingwei. This gene is formed from a retrotransposed copy of Alcohol dehydrogenase that united with the yellow emperor gene to produce a new protein. The new amino acid residues that it recruited from yellow emperor allow the new protein to act on long chain alcohols and diols, including growth hormones and pheremones. These changes affect fly development. In this case, the combination of different protein domains resulted in a gene that was fully functional and favored by selection.\n\nThe functions of many chimeric genes are not yet known. In some cases these gene products are not beneficial and they may even cause diseases such as cancer.\n"}
{"id": "35348527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35348527", "title": "Dandelion Community", "text": "Dandelion Community\n\nDandelion was a rural intentional community near Enterprise, Ontario, active in the 1970s, and disbanded around 1990. It was a member of the Federation of Egalitarian Communities, meeting all requirements for full membership.\n\nDandelion was the birthplace of singer/songwriter Devon Sproule.\n"}
{"id": "32067270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32067270", "title": "David ben Yom Tov ibn Bilia", "text": "David ben Yom Tov ibn Bilia\n\nDavid ben Yom Tov ibn Bilia was a Portuguese Jewish philosopher who lived in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries.\n\nIbn Bilia was the author of many works, the greater part of which, no longer in existence, are known only by quotations. Among them were: \"Me'or 'Enayim\", a commentary on the Pentateuch, quoted by Caspi, Levi ben Gershon, and chiefly by the author's countryman Samuel Zarza, who often criticized Ibn Bilia's interpretations as being too mystical; and \"Yesodot ha-Maskil\", published, with a French translation by S. Klein, in the collection \"Dibre Ḥakamim\", Metz, 1849.\n\nIn the \"Yesodot\" Ibn Bilia propounded thirteen articles of belief in addition to those of Maimonides. These are:\n\nThese, together with the thirteen articles of Maimonides, make twenty-six, the numerical value of the Tetragrammaton.\n\nIbn Bilia also wrote \"Ẓiyyurim\", an ethical work; \"Kilale ha-Higgayon\", a work on logic, of which only a fragment has been preserved (Neubauer, \"Cat. Bodl. Hebr. MSS.\" No. 2168); \"Ma'amar bi-Segullot 'Or ha-Naḥash\", a treatise on the medicinal virtues of the skin of the serpent, translated from Johannes Paulinus' Latin translation \"Salus Vitæ\" (Munich, No. 228).\n\nIn the past some scholars, including the nineteenth century scholar Moritz Steinschneider, have identified Ibn Bilia with the David ben Yom Tov who was the father of the Catalan astronomer Jacob ben David ben Yom Tov Poel. That David wrote works including the \"Kelal Qatan\" (\"Concise Summary\"), a treatise on the medical applications of astrology. However the two are now believed to have been separate individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "5219452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5219452", "title": "Dimitrie Gusti", "text": "Dimitrie Gusti\n\nDimitrie Gusti (; 13 February 1880 – 30 October 1955) was a Romanian sociologist, ethnologist, historian, and voluntarist philosopher; a professor at the University of Iaşi and the University of Bucharest, he served as Romania's Minister of Education in 1932–1933. Gusti was elected a member of the Romanian Academy in 1919, and was its president between 1944 and 1946. He was the main contributor to the creation of a new Romanian school of sociology.\n\nHe was a prominent member of the Peasants' Party, and later of the National Peasants' Party into which the former had merged.\n\nBorn in Iaşi, he began studying Letters at the University of Iaşi before moving on to the Universität unter den Linden and the University of Leipzig, where he studied and completed a doctorate in Philosophy (1904). In 1905, he began the study of Sociology, Law, and Political economy at the Universität unter den Linden.\n\nGusti was appointed to the Department of Ancient History, Ethics and Sociology of the University of Iaşi in 1910, and was one of the main contributors to the creation of a new Romanian school of sociology. He moved to Bucharest in 1920, and began work as a professor at the University of Bucharest, in the Department of Sociology, Ethics, Politics and Aesthetics of the latter's Faculty of Letters and Philosophy. His lectures became a center of interest inside the academic community, and he attracted students with diverse backgrounds and political convictions (the far right Mircea Vulcănescu, the communist Miron Constantinescu, the Austromarxist Henri H. Stahl, and the left-wing artist Lena Constante).\n\nCreator of the Bucharest School of Sociology and several Institutes, he also led, between 1925 and 1948, the intense research of Romanian villages and the publishing of its results as detailed monographs (a work in which he was notably assisted by Gheorghe Vlădescu-Răcoasa and Stahl). In 1936, together with Stahl and Victor Ion Popa, Gusti created the Village Museum in Bucharest.\n\nHe left the National Peasants' Party after 1938, disagreeing with its decision to oppose the authoritarian regime of King Carol II, and collaborated with the newly created National Renaissance Front. Consequently, he was threatened by the rise of the fascist Iron Guard (with the late 1940 establishment of the National Legionary State); following the Legionary Rebellion and the Guard's defeat, he sent a congratulatory telegram to \"Conducător\" Ion Antonescu.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, Gusti was approached by the new Communist government with offers of collaboration. He was invited to attend official ceremonies inside the Soviet Union, and was a member of the Romanian Society for Friendship with the Soviet Union.\n\nHe died in Bucharest, and was buried at Bellu cemetery.\n\nGusti defined his view on society as dependent on a set of principles:\n\nA creator of the sociological \"monographic method\" (as still used by his Bucharest School), Gusti favored and theoretised first-hand intensive observation of social units and phenomena, as well as interdisciplinarity, with the research work being carried out through intensive collaboration within the field of social sciences, but also with doctors, agronomists, schoolteachers, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27347743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27347743", "title": "Douglas W. Rae", "text": "Douglas W. Rae\n\nDouglas Whiting Rae (born 1939) is a political scientist and Richard Ely Professor of Political Science and Management at Yale University. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and served as Chief Administrative Officer of the City of New Haven, Connecticut in 1990–1991. He has contributed to the BBC, \"The New Republic\", and \"The New York Times\".\n\nHe is a graduate of Indiana University and the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where his Ph.D. adviser was Austin Ranney.\n\nPerhaps his most seminal work, \"The Political Consequences of Electoral Laws\" (1967, 2nd ed. 1971), was the first systematic comparative analysis of electoral systems, applying the mathematical tools of social science to past elections in the Western industrialized world to determine the effects of electoral laws on election results, in particular on proportionality i.e. the correspondences between parties' vote shares and seat shares, and the number of parties in a given country. While the book has become dated by the explosion in electoral studies that occurred across the world more than a decade later, much of his terminology and guiding criteria e.g. his three basic dimensions of electoral systems (1) electoral formula (the mathematical method for translating votes into seats), (2) district magnitude (the number of members to be elected in a district), and (3) ballot structure (the way in which electoral choices are presented on the ballot), remain standard. It is generally regarded as the most important work on voting systems since Maurice Duverger's \"Political Parties\" (1951, trans. 1954).\n\nRae's other highly influential book is \"Equalities\", published in 1981. A noteworthy work on equality theory, \"Equalities\" compares and contrasts the ideas of a number of political theorists, including Immanuel Kant, Robert Nozick, John Rawls, and Vilfredo Pareto.\n\n\"City: Urbanism and its End\", published in 2003, is a history of New Haven, Connecticut and puts forth an account of late-19th and early-20th century urbanism in American cities. In \"City\", Rae presents detailed evidence of the flourishing civic life present in New Haven and elsewhere in this period. He maintains that urbanism was a product of \"centering technologies\"—such as rail and alternating current electricity—and many of the vital qualities associated with urbanism were contingent on these \"accidents of urban creation.\" In the case of New Haven, he argues that the unparalleled spending on urban renewal by the administration of Mayor Richard C. Lee were necessarily unable to halt the technological shifts that caused urbanism's end. Rae contends that, given the futility of resurrecting the physical qualities of urbanism, that further spending on urbanist regeneration should focus on the positive social qualities of urbanism.\n\nRae has been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship, was a fellow of Stanford’s Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, a fellow of the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study, and has received numerous honors and prizes for his research. He has consulted widely and variously to the parliaments of Spain, Italy, & the Netherlands Antilles, select corporate leaders, to numerous American cities and universities, and to the BBC.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44243124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44243124", "title": "Dvadasaha", "text": "Dvadasaha\n\nDvādaśāha – (Sanskrit: द्वादशाह) literally means the twelve-day sacrifice.\n\nThe \"Soma sacrifice\" that takes twelve-days is called \"Dvādaśāha\" in which a ten-day sequence called \"dāśa-rātra\", is flanked by two intensive day and overnight sacrifices called \"atirātras\" as opening and closing days. The \"Agnistoma\" serves as the paradigm for all \"Soma sacrifices\" up to those of twelve days duration, the \"Dvādaśāha\" soma sacrifice is paradigmatic for \"Soma sacrifices\" of twelve days and more. The Aitareya Brahmana and the Kausitaki Brahmana, belong to the Rig Veda, both preserve this Rig Vedic rite. The Aitareya Brahmana (IV.25) calls the \"Dvādaśāha sacrifice\" as the 'sacrifice of Prajapati', and the Jaiminiya Brahmana (III.302) calls the stomas of \"Dvādaśāha\" as the 'powerful sons of Prajapati'.\n\nThe twelve-days \"Soma sacrifices\" are called \"Ahinas\", and the longer ones are called \"Sattras\". The Aitreya Brahmana describes the \"Dvādaśāha sacrifice\" in its Pancika IV.iv.23 to V.iv.25, beginning with the origin and the initial ritual of this sacrifice. The first six \"Prishtha\" days of the \"Dvādaśāha \" sacrifice represent the mouth, the \"Chandomah\" days are the seventh to the ninth which represent what is in the mouth as tongue palate and teeth; but that by which one produces articulate sounds of speech or by which one distinguishes sweet and not sweet, is the tenth day which is the 'day of happiness'. Those desirous of prosperity perform this ritual. The fundamental scheme of the sattras is that of a \"Dvādaśāha\" comprising a \"prayaniya-atiratra\" (one day), a \"prishthaya-shada-aha\" (six days), \"chandomas\" (three days), an \"avivakya\" (one day) and an \"udayaniya-atiratra\" (one day), which programme can be suitably extended.\n\nThe \"Dvādaśāha\" sacrifice is both, \"Ahina\" and \"Sattra\" types of \"Soma sacrifice\", the former is \"Vayudha\", and the latter, \"Samudha\". In the \"Sattra\" type of session, there is no sacrifice, only Brahmins perform this ritual. In this context, Badarayana states:-\n\nShankara explains that when a liberated soul wishes to have a body, he gets one; and when he desires to remain without it, he has none; for his will is true and desires are diverse like the \"Dvādaśāha\" which can be both a \"sattra\" and an \"ahina\", because of the injunction about the sacrifice itself and the specification of the sacrificer. And, Gambhirananda clarifies that \"Dvādaśāha\" becomes \"Ahina\" when there is injunction about it along with the specification of its performer; it is \"Sattra\" when it is resorted to by many performers. \n"}
{"id": "1943520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943520", "title": "Eikasia", "text": "Eikasia\n\nThe term eikasía (), meaning imagination in Greek, was used by Plato to refer to a human way of dealing with appearances.\n\nIt is the inability to perceive whether a perception is an image of something else. It therefore prevents us from perceiving that a dream or memory or a reflection in a mirror is not reality as such.\n\nIt is apart of Plato's Analogy of the Divided Line.\n"}
{"id": "55332141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55332141", "title": "Eivind Engebretsen", "text": "Eivind Engebretsen\n\nEivind Engebretsen (born in Oslo, November 17, 1974) is a Norwegian researcher in the philosophy of medicine. He is a full professor of interdisciplinary health science at the Institute of Health and Society (HELSAM) at the University of Oslo. He is currently appointed Research Director at the Faculty of Medicine with the academic responsibility for the first medical postdoctoral training programme in Norway. In 2017 he was elected a fellow and a group leader at the Centre for Advanced Study at the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nEngebretsen obtained his master's degree in intellectual history from the University of Oslo in 2001 and his PhD from the same university in 2006. From 2007 to 2011 he worked as an associate professor in philosophy of science at the Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences, where he still has an adjunct position. He has also worked as an assistant professor at the University of Lorraine in France (2001-2002) and as a senior adviser in Norad's evaluation department (2006-2009). He has been a board member of the International Society for Cultural History and the alternate Norwegian Member of the Helsinki Group on Gender in Research and Innovation. In 2016-2017 Engebretsen was member of one of the expert groups for the interim evaluation of the European research programme, Horizon 2020.\n\nEngebretsen's area of interest is knowledge trajectories and decision making in health care. His current research is concerned with the discourse of ‘knowledge translation’ and how this discourse might be expanded by drawing on theories of translation from linguistics, philosophy and anthropology. His work in this area has created international debate.\nTogether with the philosopher and psychoanalyst Julia Kristeva, Engebretsen has advocated a \"new medical humanities\" that not only considers the humanities as a corrective to biomedicine, but as a fundamental challenge to the whole distinction between medicine and the humanities.\n\nEngebretsen's research and publishing activities are characterized by border crossing and bridging between different scientific disciplines. He has published more than 100 scientific publications, including articles in renowned scientific journals such as the Lancet, the BMJ and Social History. He has also written and edited several books.\n\nCristin (The Norwegian Scientific Index)\n\n"}
{"id": "38028675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38028675", "title": "Fazhengnian", "text": "Fazhengnian\n\nFazhengnian (; literally \"sending forth righteous thoughts\") is a meditation exercise practiced in Falun Gong (or Falun Dafa). The practice of sending forth righteous thoughts was initiated by Falun Gong’s founder, Mr. Li Hongzhi, on May 19, 2001, a few years after the start of the persecution of Falun Gong by authorities of the People's Republic of China (PRC). Sending forth righteous thoughts is one of the three requirements for Falun Dafa practitioners during this period of time called \"Fa-rectification,\" along with studying the Fa, and clarifying the truth.\n\nIn accordance with Mr. Li Hongzhi's teachings, Minghui.org, with the aim of providing essential guidelines for sending forth righteous thoughts, advises that sending forth righteous thoughts is \"very important, and every Fa-rectification period Dafa disciple must do well in this regard.\" Additional instructions published on Minghui.org indicate that, \"when sending forth righteous thoughts, your mind must be focused, pure, and stable.\" The ritual is performed by sitting in the full lotus (cross-legged) position. Two hand positions are employed: the first hand position involves holding the right palm erect in front of the chest, while the second consists of holding the hands in the lotus hand position. The hand positions are accompanied by the recitation of two formulas, which may be translated as: (1) “The Fa rectifies the Cosmos, the Evil is completely eliminated\"; and (2) \"The Fa rectifies Heaven and Earth, immediate retribution in this lifetime.\" According to Minghui.org, \"whether or not one's primary language is Chinese,\" practitioners \"should use accurate Mandarin Chinese pronunciations as much as possible when reciting the verses.\"\n\nFalun Dafa practitioners worldwide simultaneously send forth righteous thoughts four times daily.\n"}
{"id": "19681285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19681285", "title": "Freenode", "text": "Freenode\n\nFreenode, formerly known as Open Projects Network, is an IRC network used to discuss peer-directed projects. Their servers are all accessible from the host names chat.freenode.net and irc.freenode.net, which load balances connections by using the actual servers in rotation. In 2010, it became the largest free and open source software-focused IRC network and, as of 2013, the largest IRC network, regardless of focus, encompassing more than 90,000 users and 40,000 channels, gaining almost 5,000 new users per year.\n\nFreenode is centrally managed. Staffers or staff (as IRC operators are called) have the same access across all servers. A list of active staff can be viewed using the codice_1 command. Some operations that would normally only apply to one server (like k-lines) are propagated across the whole network. Servers are \"donated\" to the network, rather than \"linked.\"\n\nThe network focuses on supporting peer-directed and open-source projects. Primary on-topic channels begin with a single #, and groups wanting to use such a channel must officially register with Freenode. \"About\" channels, which may not be about a peer-directed or open-source project, begin with two ##, and are available on a first-come, first-served basis without needing a group registration.\n\nFreenode currently runs Atheme IRC Services and IRCd-Seven, a set of Freenode-specific patches on the Charybdis IRCd (based on Ratbox). In 1999, Freenode ran an IRCd called Dancer (based on IRC-Hybrid) then switched to Hyperion in 2005. Hyperion was then replaced with IRCd-Seven on 30 January 2010.\n\nFreenode began as a 4-person Linux support channel called #LinPeople on EFnet, another IRC network. By 1995 after moving to Undernet and then DALnet it moved from being just a channel to its own network, irc.linpeople.org. In early 1998 it changed to Open Projects Net (OPN) with about 200 users and under 20 channels. The OPN soon grew to become the largest network for the free software community, and 20th largest in the world. In 2002, the name changed to Freenode and the Peer-Directed Projects Center (PDPC) was founded. PDPC was a registered IRS 501(c)(3) charity from 2002 until approximately 2010, during which it received support from such organizations as the Linux Fund in 2007.\n\nOn 24 June 2006, a user with the nickname \"ratbert\" gained administrative privileges of Freenode administrator Rob Levin (lilo) and took control of the network. It is likely that approximately 25 user passwords were stolen as a result. This user proceeded to K-line many Freenode staff members, and most Freenode servers subsequently went down for several hours.\n\nAround 30 January 2010, a new attack was discovered on Freenode that had never been seen before in the wild. Internet troll organization Gay Nigger Association of America created a piece of JavaScript that caused users of Firefox, as well as SeaMonkey and Mozilla to silently connect to Freenode and flood it. This exploit used an ability of Firefox to submit web forms to a port other than 80 (the default HTTP port). Whilst Firefox developers had blocked most ports some time ago, port 6667, the port for IRC, was not blocked.\n\nOn 2 February 2014 Freenode suffered a DDoS attack (confirmed by @freenodestaff on Twitter) which caused a partial outage.\n\nOn 22 February 2014 Freenode suffered another DDoS attack (confirmed by @freenodestaff on Twitter) which caused partial outage followed by several botnets which attempted to attack #freenode but were redirected to #freenode-unreg. After the attacks several servers remained nullrouted by their providers and for a short time period only a single server in rotation was accepting connections.\n\nOn 13 September 2014 a DDoS attack occurred which caused the network to split for several hours followed by several botnet attacks in the #freenode channel and against Freenode's services. Freenode's infrastructure team noticed a vulnerability on one of their IRC servers. So far the team has only managed to identify indication of the server being compromised by an unknown third party. Freenode recommended that all users change their NickServ password for safety reasons, and has temporarily taken the compromised server offline until the vulnerability is fixed. A deep technical analysis of the rootkit used in the attack was released on 14 October 2014.\n\nOn 17 August 2017 Freenode suffered from a \"fairly extensive spambot attack ... containing child pornography images.\" In the midst of combating the attack, the operators accidentally set a K-Line banning most users of the network.\n\nThe Peer-Directed Projects Center (PDPC) is known as the organization which ran the Freenode IRC network, where many prominent open source projects host their official IRC channels. The PDPC was incorporated in England and Wales.\n\nPDPC was created to run the Freenode network and to establish a variety of programs relating to peer-directed project communities. According to its charter, the PDPC exists \"to help peer-directed project communities flourish\", mostly based around free and open source software projects, and encouraging the use of free software through supporting its development. The GNU Project uses the Freenode network for communication.\n\nThe PDPC was founded and initially directed by Rob Levin. In November 2006, the board went through a reshuffle and new members were installed. Seth Schoen left and Christel Dahlskjaer, senior Freenode staffer became the secretary and head of staff on Freenode in Schoen's place. Also joining the board was David Levin, Rob's brother.\n\nIn March 2013, the PDPC was dissolved. The decision to dissolve was made in part due to the donation levels and costs associated with maintaining its status as a charitable organization in the UK.\n\nRobert Levin (16 December 1955 – 16 September 2006), also known as lilo, was the founder of the Freenode IRC network and Executive Director of the PDPC charity that helped fund Freenode. A computer programmer since 1968, Levin worked as an administrator and an applications programmer from 1978 until his death.\n\nOn 12 September 2006, Levin was struck by a car while riding a bicycle at night in Houston, Texas, in a hit-and-run collision. After the collision, it was reported that Levin was hospitalized for several days. He died on 16 September.\n\nFrom 1994 onwards, Levin worked to encourage the use of IRC for Free Software and Open Source projects. Levin was one of the founders of the OpenProjects Network (OPN), which quickly grew to become the largest IRC network used by the free software community. The OpenProjects domains were later put up for sale, but did not sell.\n\nIn 2003 \"The Register\" (UK) reported that Levin mismanaged funds intended for the OPN, quoting him as writing that they went \"to paying bills, to paying the rent, to buying food and necessities.\"\n"}
{"id": "13282210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13282210", "title": "Friedrich Kambartel", "text": "Friedrich Kambartel\n\nFriedrich Kambartel (born 17 February 1935 in Münster, Germany) is a philosopher.\n\nKambartel studied mathematics, physics, chemistry and philosophy at the University of Münster, where he received his PhD (in mathematics) and his “habilitation”, the postdoctoral lecture qualification (in philosophy). In 1966 he was appointed Professor of Philosophy at the University of Constance, where he took active part in the reformation of the university (“Little Harvard on Lake Constance”). Kambartel has close ties to the \"Erlangen School\" of constructivist philosophy of science. He taught at Frankfurt am Main from 1993 until his retirement in 2000.\n\nCurrently Kambartel is working together with his daughter on a conceptual novel.\n\nKambartel’s main research areas are the philosophy of language, the philosophy of the natural sciences, and the philosophy of mind. However, he also did work in logic, action theory, ethics and the philosophy of economics.\n\nHis most important works are the habilitation thesis “Erfahrung und Struktur” (“Experience and Structure”), published by Suhrkamp in 1968, as well as the two anthologies “Theorie und Begründung” (1978, “Theory and Justification”) and “Philosophie der humanen Welt” (1989, “Philosophy of the Human World”), also published by Suhrkamp.\n\nTwo major topics are present throughout Kambartel’s work — on the one hand the primacy of practical reason, and on the other the conception of reason as culture.\n\nThe first topic shapes his work in the philosophies of science, mind, and action. If practical reason were granted primacy over theoretical reason, if the latter were only possible on the basis of the former, then results obtained by neuroscience, for example, could never show that man is determined after all and cannot really act freely.\n\nThe second topic does not emerge clearly until his later work, and then it also marks a distance to the constructive attempts of the Erlangen School. Reason was not to be understood exactly, e.g. to be defined as a principle or criterion. Reason was rather a culture you grow into, a social practice within which you cultivate your judgment. Conceptual judgments like Kant’s formula of man as an end in itself served as comments to parts of the “grammar” of this culture. Contrary to what Kant believed, morality was not supreme; it was only one standard of rationality among others; reason integrated this standard and weighed it up against other standards of rationality.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34149964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34149964", "title": "Genic capture", "text": "Genic capture\n\nGenic capture is a hypothesis explaining the maintenance of genetic variance in traits under sexual selection. A classic problem in sexual selection is the fixation of alleles that are beneficial under strong selection, thereby eliminating the benefits of mate choice. Genic capture resolves this paradox by suggesting that additive genetic variance of sexually selected traits reflects the genetic variance in total condition. A deleterious mutation anywhere in the genome will adversely affect condition, and thereby adversely affect a condition-dependent sexually selected trait. Genic capture therefore resolves the lek paradox by proposing that recurrent deleterious mutation maintains additive genetic variance in fitness by incorporating the entire mutation load of an individual. Thus any condition-dependent trait \"captures\" the overall genetic variance in condition. Rowe and Houle argued that genic capture ensures that good genes will become a central feature of the evolution of any sexually selected trait.\n\nThe key quantity for genic capture is vaguely defined as \"condition.\" The hypothesis only defines condition as a quantity that correlates tightly with overall fitness, such that directional selection will always increase average condition over time. Condition should, in general, reflect overall energy acquisition, such that life-history variation reflects differential allocation to survival and sexual signalling. Genetic variation in condition should be very broadly affected by any changes in the genome. Close to equilibrium any mutation should be deleterious, thereby leading to non-zero overall mutation rate, maintaining variance in fitness.\n\nRowe and Houle's simple model defines a trait as the result of three heritable components, a condition-independent component formula_1, epistatic modification formula_2 and condition, suggesting the following function for a trait:\n\nformula_3\n\nwhere formula_4 is the condition of an individual. Loci contributing to formula_4 are loosely linked and independent of loci contributing to formula_1 and formula_2. Rowe and Houle then find the expected variance of formula_8 and ignored higher-order terms (i.e. products of variances):\n\nformula_9\n\nwhere formula_10 represents the genetic variance in the signal and analogously for other traits. Under directional selection on formula_8, the loci underlying formula_1 and formula_2 may lose all genetic variance. However, there is no qualitative difference in directional selection on formula_4 between stabilizing selection (i.e. no sexual selection) and directional selection on formula_8. Therefore, the second term formula_16 will remain positive (due to biased mutation) and dominate formula_10 under sexual selection.\n\nGenic capture can also play a role in accelerating adaptation to new environments.\n\nGenic capture was proposed as a simpler alternative to another theory explaining the lek paradox that proposed that sexual selection creates disruptive selection, i.e. positive selection for genetic variance. Genic capture does not require any particular fitness function.\n"}
{"id": "49808797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49808797", "title": "Giorgio Raguseo", "text": "Giorgio Raguseo\n\nGiorgio Raguseo (1580 – 1622) was an Italian philosopher, theologist, and orator from the Republic of Venice.\n\nBorn an illegitimate child in Dubrovnik (formerly \"Ragusa\"), Croatia, Raguseo had to beg before being taken to Venice by a gentleman who provided him an education. He became a priest and taught at the University of Padua.\n"}
{"id": "36595472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36595472", "title": "History of the function concept", "text": "History of the function concept\n\nThe mathematical concept of a function emerged in the 17th century in connection with the development of the calculus; for example, the slope formula_1 of a graph at a point was regarded as a function of the \"x\"-coordinate of the point. Functions were not explicitly considered in antiquity, but some precursors of the concept can perhaps be seen in the work of medieval philosophers and mathematicians such as Oresme.\n\nMathematicians of the 18th century typically regarded a function as being defined by an analytic expression. In the 19th century, the demands of the rigorous development of analysis by Weierstrass and others, the reformulation of geometry in terms of analysis, and the invention of set theory by Cantor, eventually led to the much more general modern concept of a function as a single-valued mapping from one set to another.\n\nAlready in the 12th century, mathematician Sharaf al-Din al-Tusi analyzed the equation in the form stating that the left hand side must at least equal the value of for the equation to have a solution. He then determined the maximum value of this expression. It is arguable that the isolation of this expression is an early approach to the notion of a \"function\". A value less than means no positive solution; a value equal to corresponds to one solution, while a value greater than corresponds to two solutions. Sharaf al-Din's analysis of this equation was a notable development in Islamic mathematics, but his work was not pursued any further at that time, neither in the Muslim world nor in Europe.\n\nAccording to Dieudonné and Ponte, the concept of a function emerged in the 17th century as a result of the development of analytic geometry and the infinitesimal calculus. Nevertheless, Medvedev suggests that the implicit concept of a function is one with an ancient lineage. Ponte also sees more explicit approaches to the concept in the Middle Ages:\n\nThe development of analytical geometry around 1640 allowed mathematicians to go between geometric problems about curves and algebraic relations between \"variable coordinates \"x\" and \"y\".\" Calculus was developed using the notion of variables, with their associated geometric meaning, which persisted well into the eighteenth century. However, the terminology of \"function\" came to be used in interactions between Leibniz and Bernoulli towards the end of the 17th century.\n\nThe term \"function\" was literally introduced by Gottfried Leibniz, in a 1673 letter, to describe a quantity related to points of a curve, such as a coordinate or curve's slope.\nJohann Bernoulli started calling expressions made of a single variable \"functions.\"\nIn 1698, he agreed with Leibniz that any quantity formed \"in an algebraic and transcendental manner\" may be called a function of \"x\".\nBy 1718, he came to regard as a function \"any expression made up of a variable and some constants.\" Alexis Claude Clairaut (in approximately 1734) and Leonhard Euler introduced the familiar notation formula_2 for the value of a function.\n\nThe functions considered in those times are called today differentiable functions. For this type of function, one can talk about limits and derivatives; both are measurements of the output or the change in the output as it depends on the input or the change in the input. Such functions are the basis of calculus.\n\nIn the first volume of his fundamental text \"Introductio in Analysin Infinitorum\", published in 1748, Euler gave essentially the same definition of a function as his teacher Bernoulli, as an expression or formula involving variables and constants e.g., formula_3. Euler's own definition reads:\n\nEuler also allowed multi-valued functions whose values are determined by an implicit equation.\n\nIn 1755, however, in his \"Institutiones Calculi Differentialis,\" Euler gave a more general concept of a function:\n\nMedvedev considers that \"In essence this is the definition that became known as Dirichlet's definition.\" Edwards also credits Euler with a general concept of a function and says further that\n\nIn his \"Théorie Analytique de la Chaleur,\" Fourier claimed that an arbitrary function could be represented by a Fourier series. Fourier had a general conception of a function, which included functions that were neither continuous nor defined by an analytical expression. Related questions on the nature and representation of functions, arising from the solution of the wave equation for a vibrating string, had already been the subject of dispute between d'Alembert and Euler, and they had a significant impact in generalizing the notion of a function. Luzin observes that:\n\nDuring the 19th century, mathematicians started to formalize all the different branches of mathematics. One of the first to do so was Cauchy; his somewhat imprecise results were later made completely rigorous by Weierstrass, who advocated building calculus on arithmetic rather than on geometry, which favoured Euler's definition over Leibniz's (see arithmetization of analysis). According to Smithies, Cauchy thought of functions as being defined by equations involving real or complex numbers, and tacitly assumed they were continuous:\n\nNikolai Lobachevsky and Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet are traditionally credited with independently giving the modern \"formal\" definition of a function as a relation in which every first element has a unique second element.\n\nLobachevsky (1834) writes that\n\nwhile Dirichlet (1837) writes\n\nEves asserts that \"the student of mathematics usually meets the Dirichlet definition of function in his introductory course in calculus.\n\nDirichlet's claim to this formalization has been disputed by Imre Lakatos:\n\nHowever, Gardiner says\n\"...it seems to me that Lakatos goes too far, for example, when he asserts that 'there is ample evidence that [Dirichlet] had no idea of [the modern function] concept'.\"\nMoreover, as noted above, Dirichlet's paper does appear to include a definition along the lines of what is usually ascribed to him, even though (like Lobachevsky) he states it only for continuous functions of a real variable.\n\nSimilarly, Lavine observes that:\n\nBecause Lobachevsky and Dirichlet have been credited as among the first to introduce the notion of an arbitrary correspondence, this notion is sometimes referred to as the Dirichlet or Lobachevsky-Dirichlet definition of a function. A general version of this definition was later used by Bourbaki (1939), and some in the education community refer to it as the \"Dirichlet–Bourbaki\" definition of a function.\n\nDieudonné, who was one of the founding members of the Bourbaki group, credits a precise and general modern definition of a function to Dedekind in his work\n\"Was sind und was sollen die Zahlen\", which appeared in 1888 but had already been drafted in 1878. Dieudonné observes that instead of confining himself, as in previous conceptions, to real (or complex) functions, Dedekind defines a function as a single-valued mapping between any two sets:\n\n defined a function as a relation between two variables \"x\" and \"y\" such that \"to some values of \"x\" at any rate correspond values of \"y\".\" He neither required the function to be defined for all values of \"x\" nor to associate each value of \"x\" to a single value of \"y\". This broad definition of a function encompasses more relations than are ordinarily considered functions in contemporary mathematics. For example, Hardy's definition includes multivalued functions and what in computability theory are called partial functions.\n\nLogicians of this time were primarily involved with analyzing syllogisms (the 2000-year-old Aristotelian forms and otherwise), or as Augustus De Morgan (1847) stated it: \"the examination of that part of reasoning which depends upon the manner in which inferences are formed,\nand the investigation of general maxims and rules for constructing arguments\". At this time the notion of (logical) \"function\" is not explicit, but at least in the work of De Morgan and George Boole it is implied: we see abstraction of the argument forms, the introduction of variables, the introduction of a symbolic algebra with respect to these variables, and some of the notions of set theory.\n\nDe Morgan's 1847 \"FORMAL LOGIC OR, The Calculus of Inference, Necessary and Probable\" observes that \"[a] logical truth depends upon the \"structure of the statement\", and not upon the particular matters spoken of\"; he wastes no time (preface page i) abstracting: \"In the form of the proposition, the copula is made as abstract as the terms\". He immediately (p. 1) casts what he calls \"the proposition\" (present-day propositional \"function\" or \"relation\") into a form such as \"X is Y\", where the symbols X, \"is\", and Y represent, respectively, the \"subject\", \"copula\", and \"predicate.\" While the word \"function\" does not appear, the notion of \"abstraction\" is there, \"variables\" are there, the notion of inclusion in his symbolism \"all of the Δ is in the О\" (p. 9) is there, and lastly a new symbolism for logical analysis of the notion of \"relation\" (he uses the word with respect to this example \" X)Y \" (p. 75) ) is there:\n\nIn his 1848 \"The Nature of Logic\" Boole asserts that \"logic . . . is in a more especial sense the science of reasoning by signs\", and he briefly discusses the notions of \"belonging to\" and \"class\": \"An individual may possess a great variety of attributes and thus belonging to a great variety of different classes\" . Like De Morgan he uses the notion of \"variable\" drawn from analysis; he gives an example of \"represent[ing] the class oxen by \"x\" and that of horses by \"y\" and the conjunction \"and\" by the sign + . . . we might represent the aggregate class oxen and horses by \"x + y\"\".\n\nIn the context of \"the Differential Calculus\" Boole defined (circa 1849) the notion of a function as follows:\n\nEves observes \"that logicians have endeavored to push down further the starting level of the definitional development of mathematics and to derive the theory of sets, or classes, from a foundation in the logic of propositions and propositional functions\". But by the late 19th century the logicians' research into the foundations of mathematics was undergoing a major split. The direction of the first group, the Logicists, can probably be summed up best by – \"to fulfil two objects, first, to show that all mathematics follows from symbolic logic, and secondly to discover, as far as possible, what are the principles of symbolic logic itself.\"\n\nThe second group of logicians, the set-theorists, emerged with Georg Cantor's \"set theory\" (1870–1890) but were driven forward partly as a result of Russell's discovery of a paradox that could be derived from Frege's conception of \"function\", but also as a reaction against Russell's proposed solution. Zermelo's set-theoretic response was his 1908 \"Investigations in the foundations of set theory I\" – the first axiomatic set theory; here too the notion of \"propositional function\" plays a role.\n\nIn his \"An Investigation into the laws of thought\" Boole now defined a function in terms of a symbol \"x\" as follows:\nBoole then used \"algebraic\" expressions to define both algebraic and \"logical\" notions, e.g., 1−\"x\" is logical NOT(\"x\"), \"xy\" is the logical AND(\"x\",\"y\"), \"x + y\" is the logical OR(\"x\", \"y\"), \"x\"(\"x\"+\"y\") is \"xx\"+\"xy\", and \"the special law\" \"xx\" = \"x\" = \"x\".\n\nIn his 1881 \"Symbolic Logic\" Venn was using the words \"logical function\" and the contemporary symbolism ( x = f(y), y = f(x), cf page xxi) plus the circle-diagrams historically associated with Venn to describe \"class relations\", the notions \"'quantifying' our predicate\", \"propositions in respect of their extension\", \"the relation of inclusion and exclusion of two classes to one another\", and \"propositional function\" (all on p. 10), the bar over a variable to indicate not-x (page 43), etc. Indeed he equated unequivocally the notion of \"logical function\" with \"class\" [modern \"set\"]: \"... on the view adopted in this book, f(x) never stands for anything but a logical class. It may be a compound class aggregated of many simple classes; it may be a class indicated by certain inverse logical operations, it may be composed of two groups of classes equal to one another, or what is the same thing, their difference declared equal to zero, that is, a logical equation. But however composed or derived, f(x) with us will never be anything else than a general expression for such logical classes of things as may fairly find a place in ordinary Logic\".\n\nGottlob Frege's Begriffsschrift (1879) preceded Giuseppe Peano (1889), but Peano had no knowledge of until after he had published his 1889. Both writers strongly influenced . Russell in turn influenced much of 20th-century mathematics and logic through his \"Principia Mathematica\" (1913) jointly authored with Alfred North Whitehead.\n\nAt the outset Frege abandons the traditional \"concepts \"subject\" and \"predicate\"\", replacing them with \"argument\" and \"function\" respectively, which he believes \"will stand the test of time. It is easy to see how regarding a content as a function of an argument leads to the formation of concepts. Furthermore, the demonstration of the connection between the meanings of the words \"if, and, not, or, there is, some, all,\" and so forth, deserves attention\".\n\nFrege begins his discussion of \"function\" with an example: Begin with the expression \"Hydrogen is lighter than carbon dioxide\". Now remove the sign for hydrogen (i.e., the word \"hydrogen\") and replace it with the sign for oxygen (i.e., the word \"oxygen\"); this makes a second statement. Do this again (using either statement) and substitute the sign for nitrogen (i.e., the word \"nitrogen\") and note that \"This changes the meaning in such a way that \"oxygen\" or \"nitrogen\" enters into the relations in which \"hydrogen\" stood before\". There are three statements:\nNow observe in all three a \"stable component, representing the totality of [the] relations\"; call this the function, i.e.,\nFrege calls the argument of the function \"[t]he sign [e.g., hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen], regarded as replaceable by others that denotes the object standing in these relations\". He notes that we could have derived the function as \"Hydrogen is lighter than . . ..\" as well, with an argument position on the \"right\"; the exact observation is made by Peano (see more below). Finally, Frege allows for the case of two (or more arguments). For example, remove \"carbon dioxide\" to yield the invariant part (the function) as:\nThe one-argument function Frege generalizes into the form Φ(A) where A is the argument and Φ( ) represents the function, whereas the two-argument function he symbolizes as Ψ(A, B) with A and B the arguments and Ψ( , ) the function and cautions that \"in general Ψ(A, B) differs from Ψ(B, A)\". Using his unique symbolism he translates for the reader the following symbolism:\n\nPeano defined the notion of \"function\" in a manner somewhat similar to Frege, but without the precision. First Peano defines the sign \"K means \"class\", or aggregate of objects\", the objects of which satisfy three simple equality-conditions, \"a = a\", (\"a = b\") = (\"b = a\"), IF ((\"a = b\") AND (\"b = c\")) THEN (\"a = c\"). He then introduces φ, \"a sign or an aggregate of signs such that if \"x\" is an object of the class \"s\", the expression φx denotes a new object\". Peano adds two conditions on these new objects: First, that the three equality-conditions hold for the objects φx; secondly, that \"if \"x\" and \"y\" are objects of class \"s\" and if \"x\" = \"y\", we assume it is possible to deduce \"φx = φy\"\". Given all these conditions are met, φ is a \"function presign\". Likewise he identifies a \"function postsign\". For example if \"φ\" is the function presign \"a\"+, then \"φx\" yields \"a\"+\"x\", or if \"φ\" is the function postsign +\"a\" then \"xφ\" yields \"x\"+\"a\".\n\nWhile the influence of Cantor and Peano was paramount, in Appendix A \"The Logical and Arithmetical Doctrines of Frege\" of \"The Principles of Mathematics\", Russell arrives at a discussion of Frege's notion of \"function\", \"...a point in which Frege's work is very important, and requires careful examination\". In response to his 1902 exchange of letters with Frege about the contradiction he discovered in Frege's \"Begriffsschrift\" Russell tacked this section on at the last moment.\n\nFor Russell the bedeviling notion is that of \"variable\": \"6. Mathematical propositions are not only characterized by the fact that they assert implications, but also by the fact that they contain \"variables\". The notion of the variable is one of the most difficult with which logic has to deal. For the present, I openly wish to make it plain that there are variables in all mathematical propositions, even where at first sight they might seem to be absent. . . . We shall find always, in all mathematical propositions, that the words \"any\" or \"some\" occur; and these words are the marks of a variable and a formal implication\".\n\nAs expressed by Russell \"the process of transforming constants in a proposition into variables leads to what is called generalization, and gives us, as it were, the formal essence of a proposition ... So long as any term in our proposition can be turned into a variable, our proposition can be generalized; and so long as this is possible, it is the business of mathematics to do it\"; these generalizations Russell named \"propositional functions\"\". Indeed he cites and quotes from Frege's \"Begriffsschrift\" and presents a vivid example from Frege's 1891 \"Function und Begriff\": That \"the essence of the arithmetical function 2\"x\" + \"x\" is what is left when the x is taken away, i.e., in the above instance 2( ) + ( ). The argument \"x\" does not belong to the function but the two taken together make the whole\". Russell agreed with Frege's notion of \"function\" in one sense: \"He regards functions – and in this I agree with him – as more fundamental than predicates and relations\" but Russell rejected Frege's \"theory of subject and assertion\", in particular \"he thinks that, if a term \"a\" occurs in a proposition, the proposition can always be analysed into \"a\" and an assertion about \"a\"\".\n\nRussell would carry his ideas forward in his 1908 \"Mathematical logical as based on the theory of types\" and into his and Whitehead's 1910–1913 \"Principia Mathematica\". By the time of \"Principia Mathematica\" Russell, like Frege, considered the propositional function fundamental: \"Propositional functions are the fundamental kind from which the more usual kinds of function, such as \"sin \"x\"\" or log x or \"the father of x\" are derived. These derivative functions . . . are called \"descriptive functions\". The functions of propositions . . . are a particular case of propositional functions\".\n\nPropositional functions: Because his terminology is different from the contemporary, the reader may be confused by Russell's \"propositional function\". An example may help. Russell writes a propositional function in its raw form, e.g., as \"φŷ\": \"\"ŷ\" is hurt\". (Observe the circumflex or \"hat\" over the variable \"y\"). For our example, we will assign just 4 values to the variable \"ŷ\": \"Bob\", \"This bird\", \"Emily the rabbit\", and \"y\". Substitution of one of these values for variable \"ŷ\" yields a proposition; this proposition is called a \"value\" of the propositional function. In our example there are four values of the propositional function, e.g., \"Bob is hurt\", \"This bird is hurt\", \"Emily the rabbit is hurt\" and \"\"y\" is hurt.\" A proposition, if it is significant—i.e., if its truth is determinate—has a truth-value of \"truth\" or \"falsity\". If a proposition's truth value is \"truth\" then the variable's value is said to satisfy the propositional function. Finally, per Russell's definition, \"a \"class\" [set] is all objects satisfying some propositional function\" (p. 23). Note the word \"all'\" – this is how the contemporary notions of \"For all ∀\" and \"there exists at least one instance ∃\" enter the treatment (p. 15).\n\nTo continue the example: Suppose (from outside the mathematics/logic) one determines that the propositions \"Bob is hurt\" has a truth value of \"falsity\", \"This bird is hurt\" has a truth value of \"truth\", \"Emily the rabbit is hurt\" has an indeterminate truth value because \"Emily the rabbit\" doesn't exist, and \"\"y\" is hurt\" is ambiguous as to its truth value because the argument \"y\" itself is ambiguous. While the two propositions \"Bob is hurt\" and \"This bird is hurt\" are \"significant\" (both have truth values), only the value \"This bird\" of the \"variable\" \"ŷ\" \"satisfies\" the propositional function \"φŷ\": \"\"ŷ\" is hurt\". When one goes to form the class α: \"φŷ\": \"\"ŷ\" is hurt\", only \"This bird\" is included, given the four values \"Bob\", \"This bird\", \"Emily the rabbit\" and \"y\" for variable \"ŷ\" and their respective truth-values: falsity, truth, indeterminate, ambiguous.\n\nRussell defines functions of propositions with arguments, and truth-functions \"f(p)\". For example, suppose one were to form the \"function of propositions with arguments\" p: \"NOT(p) AND q\" and assign its variables the values of \"p\": \"Bob is hurt\" and \"q\": \"This bird is hurt\". (We are restricted to the logical linkages NOT, AND, OR and IMPLIES, and we can only assign \"significant\" propositions to the variables \"p\" and \"q\"). Then the \"function of propositions with arguments\" is p: NOT(\"Bob is hurt\") AND \"This bird is hurt\". To determine the truth value of this \"function of propositions with arguments\" we submit it to a \"truth function\", e.g., \"f(p)\": \"f\"( NOT(\"Bob is hurt\") AND \"This bird is hurt\" ), which yields a truth value of \"truth\".\n\nThe notion of a \"many-one\" functional relation\": Russell first discusses the notion of \"identity\", then defines a descriptive function (pages 30ff) as the unique value \"ιx\" that satisfies the (2-variable) propositional function (i.e., \"relation\") \"φŷ\".\nRussell symbolizes the descriptive function as \"the object standing in relation to \"y\": R'y = (\"ιx\")(\"x R y\"). Russell repeats that \"R'y\" is a function of \"y\", but not a propositional function [sic]; we shall call it a \"descriptive\" function. All the ordinary functions of mathematics are of this kind. Thus in our notation \"sin \"y\"\" would be written \" sin \" 'y\" \", and \"sin\" would stand for the relation sin \" 'y\" has to \"y\"\".\n\nDavid Hilbert set himself the goal of \"formalizing\" classical mathematics \"as a formal axiomatic theory, and this theory shall be proved to be consistent, i.e., free from contradiction\". In \"The Foundations of Mathematics\" he frames the notion of function in terms of the existence of an \"object\":\nHilbert then illustrates the three ways how the ε-function is to be used, firstly as the \"for all\" and \"there exists\" notions, secondly to represent the \"object of which [a proposition] holds\", and lastly how to cast it into the choice function.\n\nRecursion theory and computability: But the unexpected outcome of Hilbert's and his student Bernays's effort was failure; see Gödel's incompleteness theorems of 1931. At about the same time, in an effort to solve Hilbert's Entscheidungsproblem, mathematicians set about to define what was meant by an \"effectively calculable function\" (Alonzo Church 1936), i.e., \"effective method\" or \"algorithm\", that is, an explicit, step-by-step procedure that would succeed in computing a function. Various models for algorithms appeared, in rapid succession, including Church's lambda calculus (1936), Stephen Kleene's μ-recursive functions(1936) and Alan Turing's (1936–7) notion of replacing human \"computers\" with utterly-mechanical \"computing machines\" (see Turing machines). It was shown that all of these models could compute the same class of computable functions. Church's thesis holds that this class of functions exhausts all the number-theoretic functions that can be calculated by an algorithm. The outcomes of these efforts were vivid demonstrations that, in Turing's words, \"there can be no general process for determining whether a given formula \"U\" of the functional calculus K [\"Principia Mathematica\"] is provable\"; see more at Independence (mathematical logic) and Computability theory.\n\nSet theory began with the work of the logicians with the notion of \"class\" (modern \"set\") for example , Jevons (1880), , and . It was given a push by Georg Cantor's attempt to define the infinite in set-theoretic treatment (1870–1890) and a subsequent discovery of an antinomy (contradiction, paradox) in this treatment (Cantor's paradox), by Russell's discovery (1902) of an antinomy in Frege's 1879 (Russell's paradox), by the discovery of more antinomies in the early 20th century (e.g., the 1897 Burali-Forti paradox and the 1905 Richard paradox), and by resistance to Russell's complex treatment of logic and dislike of his axiom of reducibility (1908, 1910–1913) that he proposed as a means to evade the antinomies.\n\nIn 1902 Russell sent a letter to Frege pointing out that Frege's 1879 \"Begriffsschrift\" allowed a function to be an argument of itself: \"On the other hand, it may also be that the argument is determinate and the function indeterminate . . ..\" From this unconstrained situation Russell was able to form a paradox:\nFrege responded promptly that \"Your discovery of the contradiction caused me the greatest surprise and, I would almost say, consternation, since it has shaken the basis on which I intended to build arithmetic\".\n\nFrom this point forward development of the foundations of mathematics became an exercise in how to dodge \"Russell's paradox\", framed as it was in \"the bare [set-theoretic] notions of set and element\".\n\nThe notion of \"function\" appears as Zermelo's axiom III—the Axiom of Separation (Axiom der Aussonderung). This axiom constrains us to use a propositional function Φ(x) to \"separate\" a subset M from a previously formed set M:\n\nAs there is no universal set—sets originate by way of Axiom II from elements of (non-set) \"domain B\" – \"...this disposes of the Russell antinomy so far as we are concerned\". But Zermelo's \"definite criterion\" is imprecise, and is fixed by Weyl, Fraenkel, Skolem, and von Neumann.\n\nIn fact Skolem in his 1922 referred to this \"definite criterion\" or \"property\" as a \"definite proposition\":\n\nvan Heijenoort summarizes:\n\nIn this quote the reader may observe a shift in terminology: nowhere is mentioned the notion of \"propositional function\", but rather one sees the words \"formula\", \"predicate calculus\", \"predicate\", and \"logical calculus.\" This shift in terminology is discussed more in the section that covers \"function\" in contemporary set theory.\n\nThe history of the notion of \"ordered pair\" is not clear. As noted above, Frege (1879) proposed an intuitive ordering in his definition of a two-argument function Ψ(A, B). Norbert Wiener in his 1914 (see below) observes that his own treatment essentially \"revert(s) to Schröder's treatment of a relation as a class of ordered couples\". considered the definition of a relation (such as Ψ(A, B)) as a \"class of couples\" but rejected it:\n\nBy 1910–1913 and \"Principia Mathematica\" Russell had given up on the requirement for an intensional definition of a relation, stating that \"mathematics is always concerned with extensions rather than intensions\" and \"Relations, like classes, are to be taken in \"extension\"\". To demonstrate the notion of a relation in extension Russell now embraced the notion of \"ordered couple\": \"We may regard a relation ... as a class of couples ... the relation determined by φ(\"x, y\") is the class of couples (\"x, y\") for which φ(\"x, y\") is true\". In a footnote he clarified his notion and arrived at this definition:\nBut he goes on to say that he would not introduce the ordered couples further into his \"symbolic treatment\"; he proposes his \"matrix\" and his unpopular axiom of reducibility in their place.\n\nAn attempt to solve the problem of the antinomies led Russell to propose his \"doctrine of types\" in an appendix B of his 1903 \"The Principles of Mathematics\". In a few years he would refine this notion and propose in his 1908 \"The Theory of Types\" two axioms of reducibility, the purpose of which were to reduce (single-variable) propositional functions and (dual-variable) relations to a \"lower\" form (and ultimately into a completely extensional form); he and Alfred North Whitehead would carry this treatment over to \"Principia Mathematica\" 1910–1913 with a further refinement called \"a matrix\". The first axiom is *12.1; the second is *12.11. To quote Wiener the second axiom *12.11 \"is involved only in the theory of relations\". Both axioms, however, were met with skepticism and resistance; see more at Axiom of reducibility. By 1914 Norbert Wiener, using Whitehead and Russell's symbolism, eliminated axiom *12.11 (the \"two-variable\" (relational) version of the axiom of reducibility) by expressing a relation as an ordered pair \"using the null set. At approximately the same time, Hausdorff (1914, p. 32) gave the definition of the ordered pair (a, b) as { {a,1}, {b, 2} }. A few years later Kuratowski (1921) offered a definition that has been widely used ever since, namely { {a, b}, {a} }\". As noted by \"This definition . . . was historically important in reducing the theory of relations to the theory of sets.\n\nObserve that while Wiener \"reduced\" the relational *12.11 form of the axiom of reducibility he \"did not\" reduce nor otherwise change the propositional-function form *12.1; indeed he declared this \"essential to the treatment of identity, descriptions, classes and relations\".\n\nWhere exactly the \"general\" notion of \"function\" as a many-one correspondence derives from is unclear. Russell in his 1920 \"Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy\" states that \"It should be observed that all mathematical functions result form one-many [sic – contemporary usage is many-one] relations . . . Functions in this sense are \"descriptive\" functions\". A reasonable possibility is the \"Principia Mathematica\" notion of \"descriptive function\" – \"R 'y\" = (ι\"x\")(\"x R y\"): \"the singular object that has a relation \"R\" to \"y\"\". Whatever the case, by 1924, Moses Schönfinkel expressed the notion, claiming it to be \"well known\":\n\nAccording to Willard Quine, \"provide[s] for ... the whole sweep of abstract set theory. The crux of the matter is that Schönfinkel lets functions stand as arguments. For Schönfinkel, substantially as for Frege, classes are special sorts of functions. They are propositional functions, functions whose values are truth values. All functions, propositional and otherwise, are for Schönfinkel one-place functions\". Remarkably, Schönfinkel reduces all mathematics to an extremely compact \"functional calculus\" consisting of only three functions: Constancy, fusion (i.e., composition), and mutual exclusivity. Quine notes that Haskell Curry (1958) carried this work forward \"under the head of combinatory logic\".\n\nBy 1925 Abraham Fraenkel (1922) and Thoralf Skolem (1922) had amended Zermelo's set theory of 1908. But von Neumann was not convinced that this axiomatization could not lead to the antinomies. So he proposed his own theory, his 1925 \"An axiomatization of set theory\". It explicitly contains a \"contemporary\", set-theoretic version of the notion of \"function\":\n\nAt the outset he begins with \"I-objects\" and \"II-objects\", two objects \"A\" and \"B\" that are I-objects (first axiom), and two types of \"operations\" that assume ordering as a structural property obtained of the resulting objects [\"x\", \"y\"] and (\"x\", \"y\"). The two \"domains of objects\" are called \"arguments\" (I-objects) and \"functions\" (II-objects); where they overlap are the \"argument functions\" (he calls them I-II objects). He introduces two \"universal two-variable operations\" – (i) the operation [x, y]: \". . . read 'the value of the function \"x\" for the argument \"y\" . . . it itself is a type I object\", and (ii) the operation (\"x, y\"): \". . . (read 'the ordered pair x, y') whose variables \"x\" and \"y\" must both be arguments and that itself produces an argument (\"x, y\"). Its most important property is that \"x\" = \"x\" and \"y\" = \"y\" follow from (\"x\" = \"y\") = (\"x\" = \"y\")\". To clarify the function pair he notes that \"Instead of \"f\"(\"x\") we write [\"f,x\"] to indicate that \"f\", just like \"x\", is to be regarded as a variable in this procedure\". To avoid the \"antinomies of naive set theory, in Russell's first of all . . . we must forgo treating certain functions as arguments\". He adopts a notion from Zermelo to restrict these \"certain functions\".\n\nSuppes observes that von Neumann's axiomatization was modified by Bernays \"in order to remain nearer to the original Zermelo system . . . He introduced two membership relations: one between sets, and one between sets and classes\". Then Gödel [1940] further modified the theory: \"his primitive notions are those of set, class and membership (although membership alone is sufficient)\". This axiomatization is now known as von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory.\n\nIn 1939, Bourbaki, in addition to giving the well-known ordered pair definition of a function as a certain subset of the cartesian product E x F, gave the following:\n\n\"Let E and F be two sets, which may or may not be distinct. A relation between a variable element x of E and a variable element y of F is called a functional relation in y if, for all x ∈ E, there exists a unique y ∈ F which is in the given relation with x.\n\"We give the name of function to the operation which in this way associates with every element x ∈ E the element y ∈ F which is in the given relation with x, and the function is said to be determined by the given functional relation. Two equivalent functional relations determine the same function.\"\n\nBoth axiomatic and naive forms of Zermelo's set theory as modified by Fraenkel (1922) and Skolem (1922) \"define\" \"function\" as a relation, \"define\" a relation as a set of ordered pairs, and \"define\" an ordered pair as a set of two \"dissymetric\" sets.\n\nWhile the reader of \"Axiomatic Set Theory\" or \"Naive Set Theory\" observes the use of function-symbolism in the \"axiom of separation\", e.g., φ(x) (in Suppes) and S(x) (in Halmos), they will see no mention of \"proposition\" or even \"first order predicate calculus\". In their place are \"\"expressions\" of the object language\", \"atomic formulae\", \"primitive formulae\", and \"atomic sentences\".\n\nIn 1954, Bourbaki, on p. 76 in Chapitre II of Theorie des Ensembles (theory of sets), gave a definition of a function as a triple \"f\" = (\"F\", \"A\", \"B\"). Here \"F\" is a \"functional graph\", meaning a set of pairs where no two pairs have the same first member. On p. 77 (\"op. cit.\") Bourbaki states (literal translation): \"Often we shall use, in the remainder of this Treatise, the word \"function\" instead of \"functional graph\".\"\n\nThe reason for the disappearance of the words \"propositional function\" e.g., in , and , is explained by together with further explanation of the terminology:\nFor his part Tarski calls the relational form of function a \"FUNCTIONAL RELATION or simply a FUNCTION\". After a discussion of this \"functional relation\" he asserts that:\nSee more about \"truth under an interpretation\" at Alfred Tarski.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21670152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21670152", "title": "Hourya Benis Sinaceur", "text": "Hourya Benis Sinaceur\n\nHourya Sinaceur is a Moroccan philosopher.\n\nHourya Benis was born in 1940 in Casablanca in Morocco. She is an expert in the theory and history of mathematics. Her best known book is \"Field and Models\" which was published in 2003. Sinaceur worked for Paris-Sorbonne University and the CNRS which is also in Paris, and the URS in Rabat. She is currently a member of the National French Committee of History and Philosophy of Science (Comité National Francais d'Histoire et de Philosophie des Sciences (CNFHPS)).\n\n"}
{"id": "4140585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4140585", "title": "Ido Abram", "text": "Ido Abram\n\nIsidoor Bert Hans \"Ido\" Abram (born 1940, Batavia, Dutch East Indies), is an educator and writer on the nature of Jewishness.\n\nAs a small child during World War II Abram was an internee in Japanese camps. After liberation his family returned to the Netherlands. Abram studied mathematics and philosophy at the University of Amsterdam. He is professor of pedagogy (theory of teaching) at that institute and has published on topics regarding Jewish culture and identity, multicultural education and \"Education after Auschwitz\". He has been the first European professor for \"Holocaust Education\" since 1990.\n\nHe has developed a model known as the ‘five-slice pie chart’ to illustrate the different ways of being Jewish. He says there are five aspects that in some way affect the life of every Jew. These are \"religion and tradition\", \"the tie with Israel and Zionism\", '\"war persecution and survival\", \"personal history\" and the \"exchange between Jewish and Dutch cultures\". Just how heavily these different aspects weigh on each person individually depends on the place and time in which one lives. During the course of a person’s life the various aspects may alter in importance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1633696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1633696", "title": "Ihab Hassan", "text": "Ihab Hassan\n\nIhab Habib Hassan (October 17, 1925 – September 10, 2015) was an Arab American literary theorist and writer born in Egypt.\n\nIhab Hassan was born in Cairo, Egypt, and emigrated to the United States in 1946. He was Emeritus Vilas Research Professor at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee. His writings include \"Radical Innocence: Studies in the Contemporary American Novel\" (1961), \"The Literature of Silence: Henry Miller and Samuel Beckett\" (1967), \"The Dismemberment of Orpheus: Toward a Postmodern Literature\" (1971, 1982), \"Paracriticisms: Seven Speculations of the Times\" (1975), \"The Right Promethean Fire: Imagination, Science, and Cultural Change\" (1980), \"The Postmodern Turn: Essays in Postmodern Theory and Culture\" (1987), \"Selves at Risk: Patterns of Quest in Contemporary American Letters\" (1990), and \"Rumors of Change: Essays of Five Decades\" (1995), as well as two memoirs, \"Out of Egypt: Scenes and Arguments of an Autobiography\" (1985) and \"Between the Eagle and the Sun: Traces of Japan\" (1996). Recently, he has published many short stories in various literary magazines and is completing a novel, \"The Changeling\". His last published work was \"In Quest of Nothing: Selected Essays, 1998-2008\" (2010). In addition, he has written more than 300 essays and reviews on literary and cultural subjects.\n\nHassan received honorary degrees from the Faculty of Humanities at Uppsala University, Sweden (1996) and the University of Giessen (1999), two Guggenheim Fellowships (1958, 1962), and three Senior Fulbright Lectureships (1966, 1974, 1975). He was on the Faculty of the School of Letters, Indiana University (1964), Visiting Fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (1972), twice on the Faculty of the Salzburg Summer Seminars in American Studies (1965,1975), Senior Fellow at the Camargo Foundation in Cassis (1974–1975), Resident Scholar at the Rockefeller Study Center in Bellagio (1978), twice a Senior Fellow at the Humanities Research Center in Canberra (1990, 2003), Resident Fellow at the Humanities Research Institute of the University of California, Irvine (1990), on the Faculty of the Stuttgart Summer Seminars in Cultural Studies (1991), and three times on the Faculty of the Scandinavian Summer School of Literary Theory and Criticism in Karlskrona (2000, 20001, 2004). He has also received the Alumni Teaching Award and the Honors Program Teaching Award at the University of Wisconsin in Milwaukee, where he has taught for 29 years. In addition he has delivered more than 500 public lectures in North America, Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nThe following table is taken from a part of \"The Dismemberment of Orpheus\" that was reprinted in \"Postmodern American Fiction: A Norton Anthology\" (1998). It seeks to explain the differences, both concrete and abstract, between modernism and postmodernism.\n\nHassan's Table of Differences between Modernism and Postmodernism ends with the statement (The Dismemberment of Orpheus, p. 269): \"Yet the dichotomies this table represents remain insecure, equivocal. For differences shift, defer, even collapse; concepts in any one vertical column are not all equivalent; and inversions and exceptions, in both modernism and postmodernism, abound.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1653438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1653438", "title": "Jennifer Michael Hecht", "text": "Jennifer Michael Hecht\n\nJennifer Michael Hecht (born November 23, 1965) is a teacher, author, poet, historian, and philosopher. She was an associate professor of history at Nassau Community College (1994-2007) and now teaches at The New School in New York City.\n\nHecht has seven published books, her scholarly articles have been published in many journals and magazines, and her poetry has appeared in \"The New Yorker\", \"The New Republic\", \"Ms. Magazine\", and \"Poetry Magazine\", among others. She has also written essays and book reviews for \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\", \"The American Scholar\", \"The Boston Globe\" and other publications. She has written several columns for \"The New York Times\" online \"Times Select.\"\n\nHecht is a longtime blogger for The Best American Poetry series web site and maintains a personal blog on her website. She resides in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nBorn in Glen Cove, New York on Long Island, Hecht attended Adelphi University where she earned a BA in history, for a time studying at the Université de Caen, and the Université d'Angers. She earned her PhD in the History of Science from Columbia University in 1995 and taught at Nassau Community College from 1994 to 2007, finally as a tenured associate professor of history. Hecht has taught in the MFA programs at The New School and Columbia University, and is a fellow of the New York Institute for the Humanities.\n\nHecht is married and has two children.\n\nShe has appeared on television on the Discovery Channel, \"The Morning Show with Marcus Smith\", \"Road to Reason\" and MSNBC's \"Hardball\", and on radio on \"The Brian Lehrer Show\", The \"Leonard Lopate Show\", \"On Being\" (formerly known as \"Speaking of Faith\"), \"All Things Considered\", \"The Joy Cardin Show\", and others.\n\nOf her three major intellectual interests, she ranks them, \"Poetry came first, then historical scholarship, then public atheism, and they probably remain in that order in my dedication to them.\"\n\nOriginally intending to be a poet, she was drawn to the history of science. Her first book, \"\", grew out of her dissertation on some late 19th-century anthropologists who formed the Society of Mutual Autopsy. The members would dissect each other's brains after death, and Hecht, having noticed their atheism, came to understand that this was being done not only for the sake of scientific finds, but perhaps to prove to the Catholic Church that the soul does not exist.\n\nWhile researching her first book, she came to realize that there was no sufficient history of atheism, and that led to her second book, \"\".\n\nWhile writing \"Doubt\", she found that many atheists went beyond simply stating that there are no gods and also made profound suggestions about how people should think of life and how we should live. That led to her third book, \"The Happiness Myth\", which starts there and goes on to look at present-day attitudes about how to be happy. She calls it \"a work of Skepticism in the modern sense of debunking.\"\n\nHecht believes that, \"the basic modern assumptions about how to be happy are nonsense.\" In a review of her book, \"The Happiness Myth\" for \"The New York Times\", Alison McCulloch summed it up, \"What you think you should do to be happy, like getting fitter and thinner, is part of a 'cultural code' — 'an unscientific web of symbolic cultural fantasies' — and once you realize this, you will perhaps feel a little more free to be a lot more happy.\" Similarly, in an interview on the \"Point of Inquiry\" podcast in 2007, she said \"I'm not trying really to get somebody out of depression, but I sure am trying to get people to not be so worried, so anxious over things that really don't matter.\"\n\nShe has written against agnosticism, calling \"philosophically silly\" the argument that because you can't prove a negative we have to allow for the possibility of God. \"Either you doubt everything to the point where you can't speak, or you make reasoned decisions.\"\n\nHecht is an anti-suicide advocate, writing an entire book (\"Stay: A History of Suicide and the Philosophies Against It\") arguing against it. She believes not only that \"Suicide is delayed homicide\", but also \"that you owe it to your future self to live\". She does not believe in life-after-death, urging that we should remember death and remember that it's the end. \"I think this world is extraordinary and I also think it's a pain in the ass. And I'm happy to be here and I'm ok with not being here forever.\"\n\nShe believes that morality is not magical, it is the attempt to do right. And rather than either being handed to us by God or just made up by each person, is inherent in human groups. \"There are deep rules of morality that we as human beings, in human groups, 'invented' on biological and social and intellectual lines.\"\n\nHer poetry and philosophy often intersect, and she has taught a course called \"Poets and Philosophy\" at the New School for many years. Her own taste is for poets who are concerned with philosophical or religious questions. \"Leopardi's misery makes me as happy as Schopenhauer's does, though I am ever aware of the equal cacophony of birth and pleasure that shadow their admittedly much more deafening symphony of death and suffering. Dickinson I treasure beyond measure and think she's mostly on my side of the nonbeliever line; anyway, she's my number-one poet. Hopkins has a few rhyming hunks of pure passion, frustrated but wild, which I love with a love that is more than a love, but which only go so far. Donne is deep and great company, but he leans too much into comforting delusions for me, often when he is at his best in poetic chops and pyrotechnics. Rilke is a lifesaving self-help writer and a bit of a brilliant con artist.\"\n\nHecht was raised Jewish and believed in God until she was twelve when she had what she describes as a \"Talking Heads headshift\", standing in her parent's house saying, \"This is not my beautiful couch, I am not your beautiful daughter.\" In the days that followed she came to see that \"we are one species among great nature, and as the trees very slowly rot, so do our pampered haunches.\" Eventually, she replaced faith in God with faith in humanity.\n\nHecht has been an outspoken member of the secular community since 2003, accepting the label \"atheist\" somewhat reluctantly. \"Initially after writing my book Doubt, I avoided the atheist label, saying only that I did not believe in God. After some reflection, I realized I needed to defend what I truly believe. I now call myself an 'atheist,' and proudly.\"\n\nHecht is an honorary board member of the Freedom From Religion Foundation. In 2009, she told the FFRF convention audience: \"If there is no God — and there isn't — then we [humans] made up morality. And I'm very impressed.\"\n\nIn her 2007 interview for the \"Point of Inquiry\" podcast, when asked, \"Do you think religion might actually be harmful for one's happiness?\", she said, \"Yes ... when I wrote \"Doubt\" it was very much to show people who felt that doubting religion or getting away from religion was painful. I find the world in which the natural world that we see the world, in which we make up no other, I find that world to be the best one. I'm glad there's no afterlife. I like the world as it is. And I think that religion does add a tremendous amount of guilt and pain and trouble.\" Hecht does not, however, believe that religion is all bad. In that same interview, she went on to say, \"The beautiful building and coming together and reminding oneself of community, of how we must each take the role that is given us, know yourself, remember death, control your desires, these are the big messages of wisdom. And religion got it right that you have to meditate on them for them to work.\"\n\nIn a December 2013 article for \"Politico\" Magazine, Hecht examined \"The Last Taboo\" in American politics, atheism. Referencing newly retired Rep. Barney Frank's lack of religious belief she wrote, \"Was it really harder to come out as an atheist politician in 2013 than as a gay one 25 years ago?\"\n\nHer debut poetry collection, \"The Next Ancient World\", artfully mixes contemporary and ancient world views, histories, and myths. In 2002 it received the Tupelo Press Judge's Prize in Poetry, the Norma Farber First Book Award from the Poetry Society of America, as well as ForeWord Magazine's award for Poetry Book of the Year. Her second collection, \"Funny\", explores the implications of the human love of humor and jokes. It won the 2005 Felix Pollak Prize from the University of Wisconsin Press. Her most recent collection, \"Who Said\" (Copper Canyon Press, 2013), playfully asks the title question of some of the most iconic English language poems.\n\nIn 2003 Hecht published two books of history and philosophy with two different publishers. The first, \"\", is an epic, worldwide study of religious doubt throughout history. The other, \"The End of the Soul\", is a profile of an unusual group of nineteenth-century French anthropologists who formed the Society of Mutual Autopsy to discover links between personality, ability and brain morphology. It received the prestigious Ralph Waldo Emerson Award for 2004 from the Phi Beta Kappa Society \"for scholarly studies that contribute significantly to interpretations of the intellectual and cultural condition of humanity.\" \n\nIn 2007 Hecht published \"The Happiness Myth: Why What We Think Is Right Is Wrong\" in which she attempts to examine happiness through historical perspective. Hecht maintains that our current perception of happiness is affected by culture, and that future generations may well mock our view of happiness as we make fun of earlier generations.\n\nIn 2013 Hecht published \"Stay: A History of Suicide and the Philosophies Against It.\" It is a study of intellectual and cultural history, in which she channels her grief for two friends lost to suicide into a search for persuasive arguments against it; arguments she hopes to bring back into public consciousness.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10410626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10410626", "title": "John Adams", "text": "John Adams\n\nJohn Adams (October 30 [O.S. October 19] 1735 – July 4, 1826) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States, serving as the first Vice President (1789–1797) and as the second President of the United States (1797–1801). He was a lawyer, diplomat, and leader of American independence from Great Britain. Adams was a dedicated diarist, and correspondent with his wife and advisor Abigail, and recorded important historical information on the era.\n\nA political activist prior to the American Revolution, Adams was devoted to the right to counsel and presumption of innocence. He defied anti-British sentiment and successfully defended British soldiers against murder charges arising from the Boston Massacre. Adams was a Massachusetts delegate to the Continental Congress and became a principal leader of the Revolution. He assisted in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776 and was its foremost advocate in Congress. As a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate the peace treaty with Great Britain and secured vital governmental loans. Adams was the primary author of the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which influenced the United States' own constitution, as did his earlier \"Thoughts on Government\".\n\nAdams was elected to two terms as vice president under George Washington. He then won election in 1796 as president; during his single term, he encountered fierce criticism from the Jeffersonian Republicans and from some in his own Federalist Party, led by his rival Alexander Hamilton. Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts and built up the army and navy in the undeclared \"Quasi-War\" with France. The main accomplishment of his presidency was a peaceful resolution of this conflict in the face of public anger and Hamilton's opposition. He was the first president to reside in the executive mansion now known as the White House.\n\nOpposition from Federalists and accusations of despotism from Republicans led to Adams' re-election loss to his former friend Thomas Jefferson, and he retired to Massachusetts. He eventually resumed his friendship with Jefferson by initiating a correspondence that lasted fourteen years. He and his wife generated a family of politicians, diplomats, and historians now referred to as the Adams political family, which includes their son John Quincy Adams, the sixth president of the United States. John Adams died on the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, hours after Jefferson's death. Surveys of historians and scholars have favorably ranked his administration.\n\nJohn Adams was born on October 30, 1735, (October 19, 1735, Old Style, Julian calendar) to John Adams Sr. and Susanna Boylston. He had two younger brothers, Peter and Elihu. Adams' birthplace was on the family farm in Braintree, Massachusetts (now Quincy, Massachusetts). His mother was from a leading medical family of present-day Brookline, Massachusetts. His father was a deacon in the Congregational Church, a farmer, a cordwainer, and a lieutenant in the militia. John Sr. served as a selectman (town councilman) and supervised the building of schools and roads. Adams often praised his father and recalled their close relationship. Adams' great-grandfather Henry Adams emigrated to Massachusetts from Braintree, Essex, England, around 1638.\n\nThough raised in modest surroundings, Adams felt pressured to live up to his heritage. His was a family of Puritans, who profoundly affected their region's culture, laws, and traditions. By the time of John Adams' birth, Puritan tenets such as predestination had waned and many of their severe practices moderated, but Adams still \"considered them bearers of freedom, a cause that still had a holy urgency.\" Adams recalled that his parents \"held every Species of Libertinage in ... Contempt and horror,\" and detailed \"pictures of disgrace, or baseness and of Ruin\" resulting from any debauchery.\n\nAdams, as the eldest child, was compelled to obtain a formal education. This began at age six at a Dame school for boys and girls, conducted at a teacher's home, and was centered upon \"The New England Primer\". Shortly thereafter, Adams attended Braintree Latin School under Joseph Cleverly, where studies included Latin, rhetoric, logic, and arithmetic. Adams' early education included incidents of truancy, a dislike for his master, and a desire to become a farmer. All discussion on the matter ended with his father's command that he remain in school: \"You shall comply with my desires.\" Deacon Adams hired a new schoolmaster named Joseph Marsh, and his son responded positively.\n\nAt age sixteen, Adams entered Harvard College in 1751, studying under Joseph Mayhew. As an adult, Adams was a keen scholar, studying the works of ancient writers such as Thucydides, Plato, Cicero, and Tacitus in their original languages. Though his father expected him to be a minister, after his 1755 graduation with an A.B. degree, he taught school temporarily in Worcester, Massachusetts while pondering his permanent vocation. In the next four years, he began to seek prestige, craving \"Honour or Reputation\" and \"more from [his] fellows\", and was determined to be \"a great Man.\" He decided to become a lawyer to further those ends, writing his father that he found among lawyers \"noble and gallant achievements\" but, among the clergy, the \"pretended sanctity of some absolute dunces.\" His aspirations conflicted with his Puritanism, though, prompting reservations about his self-described \"trumpery\" and failure to share the \"happiness of [his] fellow men.\"\n\nAs the French and Indian War began in 1754, Adams, aged nineteen, began to struggle with his responsibility in the conflict as his many of his contemporaries joined the war for money. Adams later said, \"I longed more ardently to be a Soldier than I ever did to be a Lawyer,\" recognizing that he was the first of his family to \"[degenerate] from the virtues of the house so far as not to have been an officer in the militia.\"\n\nIn 1756, Adams began reading law under John Putnam, a leading lawyer in Worcester. In 1758, he earned an A.M. from Harvard, and was soon admitted to the bar, having completed his studies under Putnam. He developed an early habit of writing about events and impressions of men in his diary; this included James Otis Jr.'s 1761 legal argument challenging the legality of British Writs of Assistance, allowing the British to search a home without notice or reason. Otis's argument inspired Adams to the cause of the American colonies.\n\nIn 1763, Adams forged into various aspects of political theory by publishing seven essays in Boston newspapers. He offered them anonymously, under the nom de plume \"Humphrey Ploughjogger\", and in them ridiculed the selfish thirst for power he perceived among the Massachusetts colonial elite. Adams was initially less well known than his older cousin Samuel Adams, but his influence emerged from his work as a constitutional lawyer, his analysis of history, and his dedication to republicanism. Adams often found his irascible nature a constraint in his political career.\n\nIn the late 1750s, Adams fell in love with Hannah Quincy; while they were alone, he was poised to propose, but was interrupted by friends, and the moment was lost. In 1759, he met 15-year-old Abigail Smith through his friend Richard Cranch, who was courting Abigail's older sister. Adams initially was not impressed with Abigail and her two sisters, writing that they were not \"fond, nor frank, nor candid.\" In time they grew close and were married on October 25, 1764, despite the opposition of Abigail's haughty mother. They shared a love of books, and kindred personalities that proved honest in their praise and criticism of each other. After his father's death in 1761, Adams had inherited a farm and a house where they lived until 1783. John and Abigail had six children: Abigail \"Nabby\" in 1765, future president John Quincy Adams in 1767, Susanna in 1768, Charles in 1770, Thomas in 1772, and Elizabeth in 1777. Susanna died when she was one year old, while Elizabeth was stillborn. All three of his sons became lawyers; Charles and Thomas were unsuccessful, became alcoholics, and died young, while John Quincy excelled and launched a career in politics. Adams' writings are devoid of his feelings about the sons' fates.\n\nAdams rose to prominence leading widespread opposition to the Stamp Act of 1765. The Act was imposed by the British Parliament without consulting the American legislatures. It required payment of a direct tax by the colonies for stamped documents, and was designed to pay for the costs of Britain's war with France. Power of enforcement was given to British Vice Admiralty Courts, rather than common law courts. These Admiralty courts acted without juries and were greatly disliked. The Act was despised for both its monetary cost and implementation without colonial consent, and encountered violent resistance, preventing its enforcement. Adams authored the \"Braintree Instructions\" in 1765, in the form of a letter sent to the representatives of Braintree in the Massachusetts legislature. In it he explained that the Act should be opposed since it denied two fundamental rights guaranteed to all Englishmen (and which all free men deserved): rights to be taxed only by consent and to be tried by a jury of one's peers. The instructions were a succinct and forthright defense of colonial rights and liberties, and served as a model for other towns' instructions.\n\nAdams also reprised his pen name \"Humphrey Ploughjogger\" in opposition to the Stamp Act in August of that year. Included were four articles to the \"Boston Gazette\". The articles were republished in \"The London Chronicle\" in 1768 as \"True Sentiments of America\", also known as \"A Dissertation on the Canon and Feudal Law\". He also spoke in December before the governor and council, pronouncing the Stamp Act invalid in the absence of Massachusetts representation at Parliament. He noted that many protests were sparked by a popular sermon of Boston minister Jonathan Mayhew, invoking Romans 13 to justify insurrection. While Adams took a strong stand against the Act in writing, he rebuffed attempts by Samuel Adams, a leader in the popular protest movements, to involve him in mob actions and public demonstrations. In 1766, a town meeting of Braintree elected Adams as a selectman.\n\nWith the repeal of the Stamp Act in early 1766, tensions with Britain temporarily eased. Putting politics aside, Adams moved his family to Boston in April 1768 to focus on his law practice. The family rented a clapboard house on Brattle Street that was known locally as the \"White House\". He, Abigail, and the children lived there for a year, then moved to Cold Lane; still later, they moved again to a larger house in Brattle Square in the center of the city. With the death of Jeremiah Gridley and mental collapse of Otis, Adams became Boston's most prominent lawyer.\n\nBritain's passage of the Townshend Acts in 1767 revived tensions, and an increase in mob violence led the British to dispatch more troops to the colonies. On March 5, 1770, when a lone British sentry was accosted by an mob of citizens, eight of his fellow soldiers reinforced him, and the crowd around them grew to several hundred. The soldiers were struck with snowballs, ice, and stones, and in the chaos the soldiers opened fire, killing five civilians, bringing about the infamous Boston Massacre. The accused soldiers were arrested on charges of murder. When no other attorneys would come to their defense, Adams was impelled to do so despite the risk to his reputation—he believed no person should be denied the right to counsel and a fair trial. The trials were delayed so that passions could cool.\n\nThe week-long trial of the commander, Captain Thomas Preston, began on October 24 and ended in his acquittal, because it was impossible to prove that he had ordered his soldiers to fire. The remaining soldiers were tried in December, when Adams made his legendary argument regarding jury decisions: \"Facts are stubborn things; and whatever may be our wishes, our inclinations, or the dictates of our passion, they cannot alter the state of facts and evidence.\" He added, \"It is more important that innocence be protected than it is that guilt be punished, for guilt and crimes are so frequent in this world that they cannot all be punished. But if innocence itself is brought to the bar and condemned, perhaps to die, then the citizen will say, 'whether I do good or whether I do evil is immaterial, for innocence itself is no protection,' and if such an idea as that were to take hold in the mind of the citizen that would be the end of security whatsoever.\" Adams won acquittal for six of the soldiers. Two, who had fired directly into the crowd, were convicted of manslaughter. Adams was paid a small sum by his clients.\n\nAccording to biographer John E. Ferling, during jury selection Adams \"expertly exercised his right to challenge individual jurors and contrived what amounted to a packed jury. Not only were several jurors closely tied through business arrangements to the British army, but five ultimately became Loyalist exiles.\" While Adams' defense was helped by a weak prosecution, he also \"performed brilliantly.\" Ferling surmises that Adams may have been encouraged to take the case in exchange for political office; one of Boston's seats opened three months later in the Massachusetts legislature, and Adams was the town's first choice to fill the vacancy.\n\nThe prosperity of his law practice increased from this exposure, as did the demands on his time. In 1771, Adams moved his family to Braintree, but kept his office in Boston. He noted on the day of the family's move, \"Now my family is away, I feel no Inclination at all, no Temptation, to be any where but at my Office. I am in it by 6 in the Morning – I am in it at 9 at night. ... In the Evening, I can be alone at my Office, and no where else.\" After some time in the capital, he became disenchanted with the rural and \"vulgar\" Braintree as a home for his family—in August 1772, he moved them back to Boston. He purchased a large brick house on Queen Street, not far from his office. In 1774, Adams and Abigail returned the family to the farm due to the increasingly unstable situation in Boston, and Braintree remained their permanent Massachusetts home.\n\nAdams, who had been among the more conservative of the Founders, persistently held that while British actions against the colonies had been wrong and misguided, open insurrection was unwarranted and peaceful petition with the ultimate view of remaining part of Great Britain was a better alternative. His ideas began to change around 1772, as the British Crown assumed payment of the salaries of Governor Thomas Hutchinson and his judges instead of the Massachusetts legislature. Adams wrote in the \"Gazette\" that these measures would destroy judicial independence and place the colonial government in closer subjugation to the Crown. After discontent among members of the legislature, Hutchinson delivered a speech warning that Parliament's powers over the colonies were absolute and that any resistance was illegal. Subsequently, John Adams, Samuel, and Joseph Hawley drafted a resolution adopted by the House of Representatives threatening independence as an alternative to tyranny. The resolution argued that the colonists had never been under the sovereignty of Parliament. Their original charter, as well as their allegiance, was exclusively with the King.\n\nThe Boston Tea Party, a historic demonstration against the British East India Company's tea monopoly over American merchants, took place on December 16, 1773. The British schooner \"Dartmouth\", loaded with tea to be traded subject to the new Tea Act, had previously dropped anchor in Boston harbor. By 9:00 PM, the work of the protesters was done – they had demolished 342 chests of tea worth about ten thousand pounds, the 1992 equivalent of about $1 million. The \"Dartmouth\" owners briefly retained Adams as legal counsel regarding their liability for the destroyed shipment. Adams himself applauded the destruction of the tea, calling it the \"grandest Event\" in the history of the colonial protest movement, and writing in his diary that the dutied tea's destruction was an \"absolutely and indispensably\" necessary action.\n\nIn 1774, at the instigation of Samuel Adams, the First Continental Congress was convened in response to the Intolerable Acts, a series of deeply unpopular measures intended to punish Massachusetts, centralize authority in Britain, and prevent rebellion in other colonies. Four delegates were chosen by the Massachusetts legislature, including Adams, who agreed to attend, despite an emotional plea from his friend Jonathan Sewall not to.\n\nShortly after he arrived in Philadelphia, Adams was placed on the 23-member Grand Committee tasked with drafting a letter of grievances to King George III. The members of the committee soon split into conservative and radical factions. Although the Massachusetts delegation was largely passive, Adams criticized conservatives such as Joseph Galloway, James Duane, and Peter Oliver who advocated a conciliatory policy towards the British or felt that the colonies had a duty to remain loyal to Britain, although his views at the time did align with those of conservative John Dickinson. Adams sought the repeal of objectionable policies, but at this early stage he continued to see benefits for maintaining America's status as a British colony. He renewed his push for the right to a jury trial. He complained of what he considered the pretentiousness of the other delegates, writing to Abigail, \"I believe if it was moved and seconded that We should come to a Resolution that Three and two make five We should be entertained with Logick and Rhetorick, Law, History, Politicks and Mathematicks, concerning the Subject for two whole Days, and then We should pass the Resolution unanimously in the Affirmative.\" Adams ultimately helped engineer a compromise between the conservatives and the radicals. The Congress disbanded in October after sending the final petition to the King and showing its displeasure with the Intolerable Acts by endorsing the Suffolk Resolves.\n\nAdams' absence from home was hard on Abigail, who was left alone to care for the family. She still encouraged her husband in his task, writing: \"You cannot be, I know, nor do I wish to see you an inactive Spectator, but if the Sword be drawn I bid adieu to all domestick felicity, and look forward to that Country where there is neither wars nor rumors of War in a firm belief that thro the mercy of its King we shall both rejoice there together.\"\n\nNews of the opening hostilities with the British at the Battles of Lexington and Concord made Adams hope that independence would soon become a reality. Three days after the battle, he rode into a militia camp and, while reflecting positively on the high spirits of the men, was distressed by their poor condition and lack of discipline. A month later, Adams returned to Philadelphia for the Second Continental Congress as the leader of the Massachusetts delegation. He moved cautiously at first, noting that the Congress was divided between Loyalists, those favoring independence, and those hesitant to take any position. He became convinced that Congress was moving in the proper direction – away from Great Britain. Publicly, Adams supported \"reconciliation if practicable,\" but privately agreed with Benjamin Franklin's confidential observation that independence was inevitable.\n\nIn June 1775, with a view of promoting union among the colonies against Great Britain, he nominated George Washington of Virginia as commander-in-chief of the army then assembled around Boston. He praised Washington's \"skill and experience\" as well as his \"excellent universal character.\" Adams opposed various attempts, including the Olive Branch Petition, aimed at trying to find peace between the colonies and Great Britain. Invoking the already-long list of British actions against the colonies, he wrote, \"In my opinion Powder and Artillery are the most efficacious, Sure, and infallibly conciliatory Measures We can adopt.\" After his failure to prevent the petition from being enacted, he wrote a private letter derisively referring to Dickinson as a \"piddling genius.\" The letter was intercepted and published in Loyalist newspapers. The well-respected Dickinson refused to greet Adams and he was for a time largely ostracized. Ferling writes, \"By the fall of 1775 no one in Congress labored more ardently than Adams to hasten the day when America would be separate from Great Britain.\" In October 1775, Adams was appointed the chief judge of the Massachusetts Superior Court, but he never served, and resigned in February 1777. In response to queries from other delegates, Adams wrote the 1776 pamphlet \"Thoughts on Government\", which laid out an influential framework for republican constitutions.\n\nThroughout the first half of 1776, Adams grew increasingly impatient with what he perceived to be the slow pace of declaring independence. He kept busy on the floor of the Congress, helping push through a plan to outfit armed ships to launch raids on enemy vessels. Later in the year, he drafted the first set of regulations to govern the provisional navy. Adams drafted the preamble to the Lee resolution of colleague Richard Henry Lee. He developed a rapport with Delegate Thomas Jefferson of Virginia, who had been slower to support independence but by early 1776 agreed that it was necessary. On June 7, 1776, Adams seconded the resolution, which stated, \"These colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent states.\"\n\nPrior to independence being declared, Adams organized and selected a Committee of Five charged with drafting a Declaration of Independence. He chose himself, Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Robert R. Livingston and Roger Sherman. Jefferson thought Adams should write the document, but Adams persuaded the Committee to choose Jefferson. Adams recorded his exchange with Jefferson on the question: Jefferson asked, \"Why will you not? You ought to do it.\" To which Adams responded, \"I will not – reasons enough.\" Jefferson replied, \"What can be your reasons?\" And Adams responded, \"Reason first, you are a Virginian, and a Virginian ought to appear at the head of this business. Reason second, I am obnoxious, suspected, and unpopular. You are very much otherwise. Reason third, you can write ten times better than I can.\" \"Well,\" said Jefferson, \"if you are decided, I will do as well as I can.\" The Committee left no minutes, and the drafting process itself remains uncertain. Accounts written many years later by Jefferson and Adams, although frequently cited, are often contradictory. Although the first draft was written primarily by Jefferson, Adams assumed a major role in its completion. On July 1, the resolution was debated in Congress. It was expected to pass, but opponents such as Dickinson made a strong effort to oppose it anyhow. Jefferson, a poor debater, remained silent while Adams argued for its adoption. Many years later, Jefferson hailed Adams as \"the pillar of [the Declaration's] support on the floor of Congress, [its] ablest advocate and defender against the multifarious assaults it encountered.\" After editing the document further, Congress approved it on July 2. Twelve colonies voted in the affirmative, while New York abstained. Dickinson was absent. On July 3, Adams wrote to Abigail that \"yesterday was decided the greatest question which was ever debated in America, and a greater perhaps never was nor will be decided among men.\" He predicted that \"[t]he second day of July, 1776, will be the most memorable epoch in the history of America,\" and would be commemorated annually with great festivities.\n\nAfter defeating the Continental Army at the Battle of Long Island on August 27, British Admiral Richard Howe determined that a strategic advantage was at hand, and requested that Congress send representatives to negotiate peace. A delegation, including Adams and Benjamin Franklin, met with Howe at the Staten Island Peace Conference on September 11. Howe's authority was premised on the states' submission, so the parties found no common ground. When Lord Howe stated he could only view the American delegates as British subjects, Adams replied, \"Your lordship may consider me in what light you please, ... except that of a British subject.\" Adams learned many years later that his name was on a list of people specifically excluded from Howe's pardon-granting authority. Adams was unimpressed with Howe and predicted American success.\n\nIn 1775, Adams became head of the Board of War and Ordnance, charged with keeping accurate record of the officers in the army and their ranks, the disposition of troops throughout the colonies, and ammunition. He sat on ninety committees, chairing twenty-five, an unmatched workload among the congressmen. As Benjamin Rush reported, he was acknowledged \"to be the first man in the House.\" He was referred to as a \"one man war department,\" working up to eighteen-hour days and mastering the details of raising, equipping and fielding an army under civilian control. He authored the \"Plan of Treaties,\" laying out the Congress's requirements for a treaty with France.\n\nBefore the signing of the Declaration of Independence in 1776, Adams advocated in Congress that independence was necessary to establish trade, and conversely trade was essential for the attainment of independence; he specifically urged negotiation of a commercial treaty with France. He was then appointed, along with Franklin, Dickinson, Benjamin Harrison of Virginia and Robert Morris of Pennsylvania, \"to prepare a plan of treaties to be proposed to foreign powers.\" While Jefferson was laboring over the Declaration of Independence, Adams worked on the Model Treaty. The Model Treaty authorized a commercial agreement with France but contained no provisions for formal recognition or military assistance. There were provisions for what constituted French territory. The treaty adhered to the provision that \"free ships make free goods,\" allowing neutral nations to trade reciprocally while exempting an agreed upon list of contraband. By late 1777, America's finances were in tatters, and that September a British army had defeated General Washington and captured Philadelphia. More Americans came to determine that mere commercial ties between the U.S. and France would not be enough, and that military assistance would be needed to end the war. The defeat of the British at Saratoga was expected to help induce France to agree to an alliance.\n\nIn November, Adams learned that he was to be named commissioner to France, replacing Silas Deane and joining Franklin and Arthur Lee in Paris to negotiate an alliance with the hesitant French. James Lovell invoked Adams' \"inflexible integrity\" and the need to have a youthful man who could counterbalance Franklin's advanced age. On November 27, Adams accepted, wasting no time. He wrote to Lovell that he \"should have wanted no motives or arguments\" for his acceptance if he \"could be sure that the public would be benefited by it.\" Abigail was left in Massachusetts to manage their home, but it was agreed that 10-year-old John Quincy would go with Adams, for the experience was \"of inestimable value\" to his maturation. On February 17, Adams set sail aboard the frigate \"Boston\", commanded by Captain Samuel Tucker. The trip was stormy and treacherous. Lightning injured 19 sailors and killed one. The ship was pursued by several British vessels, with Adams taking up arms to help capture one. A cannon malfunction killed one and injured five of the crew. On April 1, the \"Boston\" arrived in Spain, where Adams learned that France had agreed to an alliance with the United States on February 6. Shortly after, they arrived in France. Adams was annoyed by the other two commissioners: Lee, whom he thought paranoid and cynical, and the popular and influential Franklin, whom he found lethargic and overly deferential and accommodating to the French. He assumed a less visible role but helped manage the delegation's finances and record-keeping. Frustrated by the perceived lack of commitment on the part of the French, Adams wrote a letter to French foreign minister Vergennes in December, arguing for French naval support in North America. Franklin toned down the letter, but Vergennes still ignored it. In September 1778, Congress increased Franklin's powers by naming him minister plenipotentiary to France while Lee was sent to Spain. Adams received no instructions. Frustrated by the apparent slight, he departed France with John Quincy on March 8, 1779. On August 2, they arrived in Braintree.\nIn late 1779, Adams was appointed as the sole minister charged with negotiations to establish a commercial treaty with Britain and end the war. Following the conclusion of the Massachusetts constitutional convention, he departed for France in November aboard the French frigate \"Sensible\" – accompanied by John Quincy and 9-year-old son Charles. Constant disagreement between Lee and Franklin eventually resulted in Adams assuming the role of tie-breaker in almost all votes on commission business. He increased his usefulness by mastering the French language. Lee was eventually recalled. Adams closely supervised his sons' education while writing to Abigail about once every ten days.\n\nIn contrast to Franklin, Adams viewed the Franco-American alliance pessimistically. The French, he believed, were involved for their own self-interest, and he grew frustrated by what he saw as their sluggishness in providing substantial aid to the Revolution. The French, Adams wrote, meant to keep their hands \"above our chin to prevent us from drowning, but not to lift our heads out of water.\" In March 1780, Congress, trying to curb inflation, voted to devalue the dollar. Vergennes summoned Adams for a meeting. In a letter sent in June, he insisted that any fluctuation of the dollar value without an exception for French merchants was unacceptable and requested that Adams write to Congress asking it to \"retrace its steps.\" Adams bluntly defended the decision, not only claiming that the French merchants were doing better than Vergennes implied, but voicing other grievances he had with the French. The alliance had been made over two years before. During that period, an army under the comte de Rochambeau had been sent to assist Washington, but it had yet to do anything of significance and America was expecting French warships. These were needed, Adams wrote, to contain the British armies in the port cities and contend with the powerful British Navy. However, the French Navy had been sent not to the United States but to the West Indies to protect French interests there. France, Adams believed, needed to commit itself more fully to the alliance. Vergennes responded that he would deal only with Franklin, who sent a letter back to Congress critical of Adams. Adams then left France of his own accord.\n\nIn mid-1780, Adams travelled to the Dutch Republic. One of the few other existing republics at the time, Adams thought it might be sympathetic to the American cause. Securing a Dutch loan could increase American independence from France and pressure Britain into peace. At first, Adams had no official status, but in July he was formally given permission to negotiate for a loan and took up residence in Amsterdam in August. Adams was originally optimistic and greatly enjoyed the city, but soon became disappointed. The Dutch, fearing British retaliation, refused to meet Adams. Before he had arrived, the British found out about secret aid the Dutch had sent to the Americans, the British authorized reprisals against their ships, which only increased their apprehension. Word had also reached Europe of American battlefield defeats. After five months of not meeting with a single Dutch official, Adams in early 1781 pronounced Amsterdam \"the capital of the reign of Mammon.\" He was finally invited to present his credentials as ambassador to the Dutch government at The Hague on April 19, 1781, but they did not promise any assistance. In the meantime, Adams thwarted an attempt by neutral European powers to mediate the war without consulting the United States. In July, Adams consented to the departure of both of his sons; John Quincy went with Adams' secretary Francis Dana to Saint Petersburg as a French interpreter, in an effort to seek recognition from Russia, and a homesick Charles returned home with Adams' friend Benjamin Waterhouse. In August, shortly after being removed from his position of sole head of peace treaty negotiations, Adams fell seriously ill in \"a major nervous breakdown.\" That November, he learned that American and French troops had decisively defeated the British at Yorktown. The victory was in large part due to the assistance of the French Navy, which vindicated Adams' stand for increased naval assistance.\n\nNews of the American triumph at Yorktown convulsed Europe. In January 1782, after recovering, Adams arrived at The Hague to demand that the States General of the Netherlands answer his petitions. His efforts stalled, and he took his cause to the people, successfully capitalizing on popular pro-American sentiment to push the States General towards recognizing the U.S. Several provinces began recognizing American independence. On April 19, the States General in The Hague formally recognized American independence and acknowledged Adams as ambassador. On June 11, with the aid of the Dutch \"Patriotten\" leader Joan van der Capellen tot den Pol, Adams negotiated a loan of five million guilders. In October, he negotiated with the Dutch a treaty of amity and commerce. The house that Adams bought during this stay in the Netherlands became the first American embassy on foreign soil.\n\nAfter negotiating the loan with the Dutch, Adams was re-appointed as the American commissioner to negotiate the war-ending treaty, the Treaty of Paris. Vergennes still disapproved of Adams, so Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, and Henry Laurens were appointed to collaborate with Adams, although Jefferson did not go to Europe and Laurens was posted to the Dutch Republic.\n\nIn the final negotiations, securing fishing rights off Newfoundland and Cape Breton Island proved both very important and very difficult. In response to very strict restrictions proposed by the British, Adams insisted that not only should American fishermen be allowed to travel as close to shore as desired, but that they should be allowed to cure their fish on the shores of Newfoundland. This, and other statements, prompted Vergennes to secretly inform the British that France did not feel compelled to \"sustain [these] pretentious ambitions.\" Overruling Franklin and distrustful of Vergennes, Jay and Adams decided not to consult with France, instead dealing directly with the British. During these negotiations, Adams mentioned to the British that his proposed fishing terms were more generous than those offered by France in 1778, and that accepting would foster good will between Britain and the United States while putting pressure on France. Britain agreed, and the two sides worked out other provisions afterwards. Vergennes was angered when he learned from Franklin of the American duplicity, but did not demand renegotiation, and was supposedly surprised at how much the Americans could extract. The independent negotiations allowed the French to plead innocence to their Spanish allies, whose demands for Gibraltar might have caused significant problems. On September 3, 1783, the treaty was signed and American independence was recognized.\n\nAdams was appointed the first American ambassador to Great Britain in 1785. When a counterpart assumed that Adams had family in England, Adams replied, \"Neither my father or mother, grandfather or grandmother, great grandfather or great grandmother, nor any other relation that I know of, or care a farthing for, has been in England these one hundred and fifty years; so that you see I have not one drop of blood in my veins but what is American.\"\n\nAfter arriving in London from Paris, Adams had his first audience with King George III on June 1, which he meticulously recorded in a letter to Foreign Minister Jay the next day. The pair's exchange was respectful; Adams promised to do all that he could to restore friendship and cordiality \"between People who, tho Seperated [sic] by an Ocean and under different Governments have the Same Language, a Similar Religion and kindred Blood,\" and the King agreed to \"receive with Pleasure, the Assurances of the friendly Dispositions of the United States.\" The King added that although \"he had been the last to consent\" to American independence, he wanted Adams to know that he had always done what he thought was right. Towards its end, he startled Adams by commenting that \"There is an Opinion, among Some People, that you are not the most attached of all Your Countrymen, to the manners of France.\" Adams replied, \"That Opinion sir, is not mistaken, I must avow to your Majesty, I have no Attachments but to my own Country.\" To this King George responded, \"An honest Man will never have any other.\"\n\nAdams was joined by Abigail while in London. Suffering the hostility of the King's courtiers, they escaped when they could by seeking out Richard Price, minister of Newington Green Unitarian Church and instigator of the debate over the Revolution within Britain. Adams corresponded with his sons John Quincy and Charles, both of whom were at Harvard, cautioning the former against the \"smell of the midnight lamp\" while admonishing the latter to devote sufficient time to study. Jefferson visited Adams in 1786 while serving as Minister to France; the two toured the countryside and saw many British historical sites. While in London, he briefly met his old friend Jonathan Sewall, but the two discovered that they had grown too far apart to renew their friendship. Adams considered Sewall one of the war's casualties, and Sewall critiqued him as an ambassador:\n\nAdams' tenure in Britain was complicated by both countries failing to follow their treaty obligations. The American states had been delinquent in paying debts owed to British merchants, and in response, the British refused to vacate forts in the northwest as promised. Adams' attempts to resolve this dispute failed, and he was often frustrated by a lack of news of progress from home. The news he received of tumult at home, such as Shays' Rebellion, heightened his anxiety. He then asked Jay to be relieved; in 1788, he took his leave of George III, who engaged Adams in polite and formal conversation, promising to uphold his end of the treaty once America did the same. Adams then went to The Hague to take formal leave of his ambassadorship there and to secure refinancing from the Dutch, allowing the United States to meet obligations on earlier loans.\n\nOn June 17, Adams arrived back in Massachusetts to a triumphant welcome. He returned to farming life in the months after. The nation's first presidential election was soon to take place. Because George Washington was widely expected to win the presidency, many felt that the vice presidency should go a northerner. Although he made no public comments on the matter, Adams was the primary contender. Each state's presidential electors gathered on February 4, 1789 to cast their two votes for the president. The person with the most votes would be president and the second would become vice president. Adams received 34 electoral college votes in the election, second place behind George Washington, who garnered 69 votes. As a result, Washington became the nation's first president, and Adams became its first vice president. Adams finished well ahead of all others except Washington, but was still offended by Washington receiving more than twice as many votes. To Benjamin Rush, he wrote, \"Is not my election to this office, in the dark and scurvy manner in which it was done, a curse rather than a blessing?\" Unbeknownst to Adams, Hamilton convinced many electors to not vote for him, under the pretext of not embarrassing Washington, to be absolutely sure that Adams did not win.\n\nAlthough his term was scheduled to start on March 4, 1789, it was delayed until April 21 because Congress could not initially achieve a quorum.\n\nThe sole constitutionally prescribed responsibility of the vice president is to preside over the Senate, where he can cast a tie-breaking vote. Early in his term, Adams became deeply involved in a lengthy Senate controversy over the official titles for the president and executive officers of the new government. Although the House agreed that the president should be addressed simply as \"George Washington, President of the United States,\" the Senate debated the issue at some length. Adams favored the adoption of the style of \"Highness\" (as well as the title of \"Protector of Their [the United States'] Liberties\") for the president. Some senators favored a variant of \"Highness\" or the lesser \"Excellency\".\" Anti-federalists in the Senate objected to the monarchical sound of them all; Jefferson described them as \"superlatively ridiculous.\" The Senate emphasized simplicity and republicanism, and many argued that these \"distinctions,\" as Adams called them, violated the Constitution's prohibition on titles of nobility. Adams argued that the distinctions were necessary because the highest office of the United States must be marked with \"dignity and splendor\" to command respect. He was widely derided for his combative nature and stubbornness, especially as he actively debated and lectured the senators. \"For forty minutes he harangued us from the chair,\" wrote Senator William Maclay of Pennsylvania. Maclay became Adams' fiercest opponent and repeatedly expressed personal contempt for him in both public and private. He likened Adams to \"a monkey just put into breeches.\" Ralph Izard suggested that Adams be referred to by the title \"His Rotundity,\" a joke which soon became popular. On May 14, the Senate decided that the title of \"Mr. President\" would be used. Privately, Adams conceded that his vice presidency had begun poorly, and that perhaps he had been out of the country too long to know the sentiment of the people. Washington quietly expressed his displeasure with the fuss and rarely consulted Adams.\nAs vice president, Adams largely sided with the Washington administration and the emerging Federalist Party. He supported Washington's policies against opposition from anti-Federalists and Republicans. He cast 31 tie-breaking votes, all in support of the administration, and more than any other vice president. In 1790, Jefferson, Madison, and Hamilton struck a bargain guaranteeing Republican support for Hamilton's debt assumption plan in exchange for the capital being temporarily moved from New York to Philadelphia, and then to a permanent site on the Potomac River to placate Southerners. In the Senate, Adams cast a tie-breaking nay vote against a last-minute motion to keep the capital in New York. In another instance, he voted against a bill sponsored by Maclay that would have required Senate consent for the removal of executive branch officials who had been confirmed by the Senate.\n\nAdams played a minor role in politics as vice president. He attended few cabinet meetings, and the President sought his counsel infrequently. While Adams brought energy and dedication to the office, by mid-1789 he had already found it \"not quite adapted to my character ... too inactive, and mechanical.\" He wrote, \"My country has in its wisdom contrived for me the most insignificant office that ever the invention of man ... or his imagination contrived or his imagination conceived.\" Adams' behavior made him a target for critics of the Washington administration. Toward the end of his first term, he grew accustomed to assuming a marginal role, and rarely intervened in debate. Adams never questioned Washington's courage or patriotism, but Washington did join Franklin and others as the object of Adams' ire or envy. \"The History of our Revolution will be one continued lie,\" Adams declared. \"... The essence of the whole will be that Dr. Franklin's electrical Rod smote the Earth and out sprung General Washington. That Franklin electrified him with his Rod – and henceforth these two conducted all the Policy, Negotiations, Legislatures and War.\" Adams won reelection with little difficulty in 1792 with 77 votes. His strongest challenger, George Clinton, had 50.\n\nOn July 14, 1789, the French Revolution began. Republicans were jubilant. Adams at first expressed cautious optimism, but soon began denouncing the revolutionaries as barbarous and tyrannical. Washington eventually consulted Adams more often, but not until near the end of his administration, by which point Hamilton, Jefferson, and Edmund Randolph had all resigned. The British had been raiding American trading vessels, and John Jay was sent to London to negotiate an end to hostilities. When he returned with a peace treaty on terms unfavorable to the United States, Adams urged Washington to sign it to prevent war. Washington chose to do so, igniting protests and riots. He was accused of surrendering American honor to a tyrannical monarchy and of turning his back on the French Republic. John Adams predicted in a letter to Abigail that ratification would deeply divide the nation.\n\nThe election of 1796 was the first contested American presidential election. Twice, George Washington had been elected to office unanimously but, during his presidency, deep philosophical differences between the two leading figures in the administration – Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson – had caused a rift, leading to the founding of the Federalist Party and Republican parties. When Washington announced that he would not be a candidate for a third term, an intense partisan struggle for control of Congress and the presidency began.\n\nLike the previous two presidential elections, no candidates were put forward for voters to choose between in 1796. The Constitution provided for the selection of electors who would then choose a president. In seven states voters chose the presidential electors. In the remaining nine states, they were chosen by the state's legislature. The clear Republican favorite was Jefferson. Adams was the Federalist frontrunner. The Republicans held a congressional nominating caucus and named Jefferson and Aaron Burr as their presidential choices. Jefferson at first declined the nomination, but he agreed to run a few weeks later. Federalist members of Congress held an informal nominating caucus and named Adams and Thomas Pinckney as their candidates. The campaign was for the most part confined to newspaper attacks, pamphlets and political rallies; of the four contenders, only Burr actively campaigned. The practice of not campaigning for office would remain for many decades. Adams stated that he wanted to stay out of what he called the \"silly and wicked game\" of electioneering.\n\nAs the campaign progressed, fears grew among Hamilton and his supporters that Adams was too vain, opinionated, unpredictable and stubborn to follow their directions. Indeed, Adams felt largely left out of Washington's administration and did not consider himself a strong member of the Federalist Party. He had remarked that Hamilton's economic program, centered around banks, would \"swindle\" the poor and unleash the \"gangrene of avarice.\" Desiring \"a more pliant president than Adams,\" Hamilton maneuvered to tip the election to Pinckney. He coerced South Carolina Federalist electors, pledged to vote for \"favorite son\" Pinckney, to scatter their second votes among candidates other than Adams. Hamilton's scheme was undone when several New England state electors heard of it and agreed not to vote for Pinckney. Adams wrote shortly after the election that Hamilton was a \"proud Spirited, conceited, aspiring Mortal always pretending to Morality, with as debauched Morals as old Franklin who is more his Model than any one I know.\" Throughout his life, Adams made highly critical statements about Hamilton. He made derogatory references to his womanizing, real or alleged, and slurred him as the \"Creole bastard.\"\n\nIn the end, Adams won the presidency by a narrow margin, receiving 71 electoral votes to 68 for Jefferson, who became the vice president; Pinckney finished in third with 59 votes, and Burr came in fourth with 30. The balance of the Electoral College votes were dispersed among nine other candidates. This is the only election to date in which a president and vice president were elected from opposing tickets.\n\nAdams was sworn into office as the nation's second president on March 4, 1797 by Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth. As president, he followed Washington's lead in using the presidency to exemplify republican values and civic virtue, and his service was free of scandal. Adams spent much of his term at his Massachusetts home Peacefield, preferring the quietness of domestic life to business at the capital. He ignored the political patronage and office seekers which other office holders utilized.\n\nHistorians debate his decision to retain the members of Washington's cabinet in light of the cabinet's loyalty to Hamilton. The \"Hamiltonians who surround him,\" Jefferson soon remarked, \"are only a little less hostile to him than to me.\" Although aware of Hamilton's influence, Adams was convinced that their retention ensured a smoother succession. Adams maintained the economic programs of Hamilton, who regularly consulted with key cabinet members, especially the powerful Treasury Secretary, Oliver Wolcott Jr. Adams was in other respects quite independent of his cabinet, often making decisions despite opposition from it. Hamilton had grown accustomed to being regularly consulted by Washington. Shortly after Adams was inaugurated, Hamilton sent him a detailed letter filled with policy suggestions for the new administration. Adams dismissively ignored it.\n\nHistorian Joseph Ellis writes that \"[t]he Adams presidency was destined to be dominated by a single question of American policy to an extent seldom if ever encountered by any succeeding occupant of the office.\" That question was whether to make war with France or find peace. In Europe, Britain and France were at war as a result of the French Revolution. Hamilton and the Federalists favored the British monarchy against what they perceived to be the political and anti-religious radicalism of the French Revolution, while Jefferson and the Republicans, with their firm opposition to monarchy, strongly supported France. The French had supported Jefferson for president and became even more belligerent at his loss. When Adams entered office, he decided to continue Washington's policy of staying out of the war. Because of the Jay Treaty, the French saw America as Britain's junior partner and began seizing American merchant ships that were trading with the British. Most Americans were still pro-French due to France's assistance during the Revolution, the perceived humiliation of the Jay Treaty, and their desire to support a republic against the British monarchy, and would not tolerate war with France.\n\nOn May 16, 1797, Adams gave a speech to the House and Senate in which he called for increasing defense capabilities in case of war with France. He announced that he would send a peace commission to France but simultaneously called for a military buildup to counter any potential French threat. The speech was well received by the Federalists. Adams was depicted as an eagle holding an olive branch in one talon and the \"emblems of defense\" in the other. The Republicans were outraged, for Adams had not only failed to express support for the cause of the French Republic but appeared to be calling for war against it.\n\nSentiments changed with the XYZ Affair. The peace commission that Adams appointed consisted of John Marshall, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney and Elbridge Gerry. Jefferson met four times with Joseph Letombe, the French consul in Philadelphia. Letombe wrote to Paris stating that Jefferson had told him that it was in France's best interest to treat the American ministers civilly but \"then drag out the negotiations at length\" to arrive at most favorable solution. According to Letombe, Jefferson called Adams \"vain, suspicious, and stubborn.\" When the envoys arrived in October, they were kept waiting for several days, and then granted only a 15-minute meeting with French Foreign Minister Talleyrand. The diplomats were then met by three of Talleyrand's agents. The French emissaries (later code-named, X, Y, and Z) refused to conduct negotiations unless the United States paid enormous bribes, one to Talleyrand personally, and another to the Republic of France. Supposedly this was to make up for offenses given to France by Adams in his speech. The Americans refused to negotiate on such terms. Marshall and Pinckney returned home, while Gerry remained.\n\nNews of the disastrous peace mission arrived in the form of a memorandum from Marshall on March 4, 1798. Adams, not wanting to incite violent impulses among the populace, announced that the mission had failed without providing details. He also sent a message to Congress asking for a renewal of the nation's defenses. The Republicans frustrated the President's defense measures. Suspecting that he might be hiding material favorable to France, the House, with the support of Federalists who had heard rumors of what was contained in the messages and were happy to assist the Republicans, voted overwhelmingly to demand that Adams release the papers. Once they were released, the Republicans, according to Abigail, were \"struck dumb.\" Benjamin Franklin Bache, editor of the \"Philadelphia Aurora,\" blamed Adams' aggression as the cause of the disaster. Among the general public, the effects were very different. The affair substantially weakened popular American support of France. Adams reached the height of his popularity as many in the country called for full-scale war against the French.\n\nDespite the XYZ Affair, Republican opposition persisted. Federalists accused the French and their associated immigrants of provoking civil unrest. In an attempt to quell the outcry, the Federalists introduced, and the Congress passed, a series of laws collectively referred to as the Alien and Sedition Acts, which were signed by Adams in June 1798. Congress specifically passed four measures – the Naturalization Act, the Alien Friends Act, the Alien Enemies Act and the Sedition Act. All came within a period of two weeks, in what Jefferson called an \"unguarded passion.\" The Alien Friends Act, Alien Enemies Act, and Naturalization Acts targeted immigrants, specifically French, by giving the President greater deportation authority and increasing citizenship requirements. The Sedition Act made it a crime to publish \"false, scandalous, and malicious writing\" against the government or its officials. Adams had not promoted any of these acts, but was urged to sign them by his wife and cabinet. He eventually agreed and signed the bills into law.\nThe administration initiated fourteen or more indictments under the Sedition Act, as well as suits against five of the six most prominent Republican newspapers. The majority of the legal actions began in 1798 and 1799, and went to trial on the eve of the 1800 presidential election. Other historians have cited evidence that the Alien and Sedition Acts were rarely enforced, namely: 1) only 10 convictions under the Sedition Act have been identified; 2) Adams never signed a deportation order; and 3) the sources of expressed furor over the acts were Republicans. The Acts allowed for prosecution of many who opposed the Federalists. Congressman Matthew Lyon of Vermont was sentenced to four months in jail for criticizing the President. Adams resisted Pickering's attempts to deport aliens, although many left on their own, largely in response to the hostile environment. Republicans were outraged. Jefferson, disgusted by the acts, wrote nothing publicly but partnered with Madison to secretly draft the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions. Jefferson, writing for Kentucky, wrote that states had the \"natural right\" to nullify any acts they deemed unconstitutional. Writing to Madison, he speculated that as a last resort the states might have to \"sever ourselves from the union we so much value.\" Federalists reacted bitterly to the resolutions, which were to have far more lasting implications for the country than the Alien and Sedition Acts. Still, the acts Adams signed into law energized and unified the Republican Party while doing little to unite the Federalists.\n\nIn May 1798, a French privateer captured a merchant vessel off of the New York Harbor. An increase in attacks on sea marked the beginning of the undeclared naval war known as the Quasi-War. Adams knew that America would be unable to win a major conflict, both because of its internal divisions and because France at the time was dominating the fight in most of Europe. He pursued a strategy whereby America harassed French ships in an effort sufficient to stem the French assaults on American interests. In May, shortly after the attack in New York, Congress created a separate Navy Department. The prospect of a French invasion of the U.S. mainland led for calls to build up the army. Hamilton and other \"High Federalists\" were particularly adamant that a large army be called up, in spite of a common fear, particularly among Republicans, that large standing armies were subversive to liberty. In May, a \"provisional\" army of 10,000 soldiers was authorized by Congress. In July, Congress created twelve infantry regiments and provided for six cavalry companies. These numbers exceeded Adams' requests but fell short of Hamilton's.\n\nAdams was pressured by Federalists to appoint Hamilton, who had served as Washington's aide-de-camp during the Revolution, to command the army. Distrustful of Hamilton and fearing a plot to subvert his administration, Adams appointed Washington to command the army without consulting him. Washington was surprised, and as a condition of his acceptance demanded that he be permitted to appoint his own subordinates. He wished to have Henry Knox as second-in-command, followed by Hamilton, and then Charles Pinckney. On June 2, Hamilton wrote to Washington stating that he would not serve unless he was made Inspector General and second-in-command. Washington conceded that Hamilton, despite holding a rank lower than that of Knox and Pinckney, had, by serving on his staff, more opportunity to comprehend the whole military scene, and should therefore outrank them. Adams sent Secretary of War McHenry to Mount Vernon to convince Washington to accept the post. McHenry put forth his opinion that Washington would not serve unless permitted to choose his own officers. Adams had intended to appoint Republicans Burr and Frederick Muhlenberg to make the army appear bipartisan. Washington's list consisted entirely of Federalists. Adams relented and agreed to submit to the Senate the names of Hamilton, Pinckney, and Knox, in that order, although final decisions of rank would be reserved to Adams. Knox refused to serve under these conditions. Adams firmly intended to give to Hamilton the lowest possible rank, while Washington and many other Federalists wrongly insisted that the order in which the names had been submitted to the Senate must determine seniority. On September 21, Adams received a letter from McHenry relaying a statement from Washington threatening to resign if Hamilton were not made second-in-command. Adams knew of the backlash that he would receive from Federalists should he continue his course, and he was forced to capitulate despite bitter resentment against many of his fellow Federalists. The severe illness of Abigail, whom Adams was feared was near death, exacerbated his suffering and frustration.\nIt quickly became apparent that due to Washington's advanced age, Hamilton was the army's \"de facto\" commander. He exerted effective control over the War Department, taking over supplies for the army. Meanwhile, Adams built up the Navy, adding six fast, powerful frigates, most notably the USS \"Constitution\".\n\nThe Quasi-War continued, but there was a noticeable decline in war fever beginning in the fall once news arrived of the French defeat at the Battle of the Nile, which many Americans hoped would make them more disposed to negotiate. In October, Adams heard from Gerry in Paris that the French wanted to make peace and would properly receive an American delegation. That December in his address to Congress, Adams relayed these statements while expressing the need to maintain adequate defenses. The speech angered both Federalists, including Hamilton, many of whom had wanted a request for a declaration of war, and Republicans. Hamilton secretly promoted a plan, already rejected by Adams, in which American and British troops would combine to seize Spanish Florida and Louisiana, ostensibly to deter a possible French invasion. Hamilton's critics, including Abigail, saw in his military buildups the signs of an aspiring military dictator.\n\nOn February 18, 1799, Adams surprised many by nominating diplomat William Vans Murray on a peace mission to France. The decision was made without consulting his cabinet or even Abigail, who nonetheless upon hearing of it described it as a \"master stroke.\" To placate Republicans, he nominated Patrick Henry and Ellsworth to accompany Murray and the Senate immediately approved them on March 3. Henry declined the nomination and Adams chose William Richardson Davie to replace him. Hamilton strongly criticized the decision, as did Adams' cabinet members, who maintained frequent communication with him. Adams again questioned the loyalty of those men but did not remove them. To the annoyance of many, Adams spent a full seven months–March to September–of 1799 in Peacefield, finally returning to Trenton, where the government had set up temporary quarters due to the yellow fever epidemic, after a letter arrived from Talleyrand confirming Gerry's statement that American ministers would be received. Adams then decided to send the commissioners to France. Adams arrived back in Trenton on October 10. Shortly after, Hamilton, in a breach of military protocol, arrived uninvited at the city to speak with the President, urging him not to send the peace commissioners but instead to ally with Britain, which he viewed to be the stronger party, to restore the Bourbons to France. \"I heard him with perfect good humor, though never in my life did I hear a man talk more like a fool,\" Adams said. He regarded Hamilton's idea as chimerical and far-fetched. On November 15, the commissioners set sail for Paris.\n\nTo pay for the military buildup of the Quasi-War, Adams and his Federalist allies enacted the Direct Tax of 1798. Direct taxation by the federal government was widely unpopular, and the government's revenue under Washington had mostly come from excise taxes and tariffs. Though Washington had maintained a balanced budget with the help of a growing economy, increased military expenditures threatened to cause major budget deficits, and the Federalists developed a taxation plan to meet the need for increased government revenue. The Direct Tax of 1798 instituted a progressive land value tax of up to 1% of the value of a property. Taxpayers in eastern Pennsylvania resisted federal tax collectors, and in March 1799 the bloodless Fries's Rebellion broke out. Led by Revolutionary War veteran John Fries, rural German-speaking farmers protested what they saw as a threat to their liberties. They intimidated tax collectors, who often found themselves unable to go about their business. The disturbance was quickly ended with Hamilton leading the army to restore peace.\n\nFries and two other leaders were arrested, found guilty of treason, and sentenced to hang. They appealed to Adams requesting a pardon. The cabinet unanimously advised Adams to refuse, but he instead granted the pardon, using as justification the argument that the men had instigated a mere riot as opposed to a rebellion. In his pamphlet attacking Adams before the election, Hamilton wrote that \"it was impossible to commit a greater error.\"\n\nOn May 5, 1800, Adams' frustrations with the Hamilton wing of the party exploded during a meeting with McHenry, a Hamilton loyalist who was universally regarded, even by Hamilton, as an inept Secretary of War. Adams accused him of subservience to Hamilton and declared that he would rather serve as Jefferson's vice president or minister at The Hague than be beholden to Hamilton for the presidency. McHenry offered to resign at once, and Adams accepted. On May 10, he asked Pickering to resign. Pickering refused and was summarily dismissed. Adams named John Marshall as Secretary of State and Samuel Dexter as Secretary of War. In 1799, Napoleon took over as head of the French government in the Coup of 18 Brumaire and declared the French Revolution over. News of this event increased Adams' desire to disband the provisional army, which, with Washington now dead, was commanded only by Hamilton. His moves to end the army after the departures of McHenry and Pickering were met with little opposition. Rather than allow Adams to receive the credit, Federalists joined with Republicans in voting to disband the army in mid-1800.\n\nNapoleon, realizing that the conflict was pointless, signaled his readiness for friendly relations. By the Convention of 1800, the two sides agreed to return any captured ships and to allow for the peaceful transfer of non-military goods to an enemy of the nation. On January 23, 1801, the Senate voted 16–14 in favor of the treaty, four votes short of the necessary two thirds. Some Federalists, including Hamilton, urged that the Senate vote in favor of the treaty with reservations. A new proposal was then drawn up demanding that the Treaty of Alliance of 1778 be superseded and that France pay for its damages to American property. On February 3, the treaty with the reservations passed 22–9 and was signed by Adams. Adams proudly avoided war, but deeply split his party in the process. Historian Ron Chernow writes that \"the threat of Jacobinism\" was the one thing that united the Federalist Party, and that Adams' elimination of it unwittingly contributed to the party's demise. News of the peace treaty did not arrive in the United States until after the election, too late to sway the results.\n\nAdams' leadership on naval defense has sometimes led him to be called the \"father of the American Navy.\" In July 1798, he signed into law An Act for the relief of sick and disabled seamen, which authorized the establishment of a government-operated marine hospital service. In 1800, he signed the law establishing the Library of Congress.\n\nAdams made his first official visit to the nation's new seat of government in early June 1800. Amid the \"raw and unfinished\" cityscape, the president found the public buildings \"in a much greater forwardness of completion than expected.\" He moved into the nearly completed President's Mansion (later known as the White House) on November 1. Abigail arrived a few weeks later. Upon arriving, Adams wrote to her, \"Before I end my letter, I pray Heaven to bestow the best of Blessings on this House and all that shall hereafter inhabit it. May none but honest and wise Men ever rule under this roof.\" The Senate of the 7th Congress met for the first time in the new Congress House (later known as the Capitol building) on November 17, 1800. On November 22, Adams delivered his fourth State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress in the Old Supreme Court Chamber. This would be the last annual message any president would personally deliver to Congress for the next 113 years.\n\nWith the Federalist Party deeply split over his negotiations with France, and the opposition Republican Party enraged over the Alien and Sedition Acts and the expansion of the military, Adams faced a daunting reelection campaign in 1800. The Federalist congressmen caucused in the spring of 1800 and nominated Adams and Charles Cotesworth Pinckney. The Republicans nominated Jefferson and Burr, their candidates in the previous election.\n\nThe campaign was bitter and characterized by malicious insults by partisan presses on both sides. Federalists claimed that the Republicans were the enemies of \"all who love order, peace, virtue, and religion.\" They were said to be libertines and dangerous radicals who favored states' rights over the Union and would instigate anarchy and civil war. Jefferson's rumored affairs with slaves were used against him. Republicans in turn accused Federalists of subverting republican principles through punitive federal laws and of favoring Britain and the other coalition countries in their war with France to promote aristocratic, anti-republican values. Jefferson was portrayed as an apostle of liberty and man of the people, while Adams was labelled a monarchist. He was accused of insanity and marital infidelity. James T. Callender, a Republican propagandist secretly financed by Jefferson, degraded Adams' character and accused him of attempting to make war with France. Callender was arrested and jailed under the Sedition Act, which only further inflamed Republican passions.\n\nOpposition from the Federalist Party was at times equally intense. Some, including Pickering, accused Adams of colluding with Jefferson so that he would end up either president or vice president. Hamilton was hard at work, attempting to sabotage the President's reelection. Planning an indictment of Adams' character, he requested and received private documents from both the ousted cabinet secretaries and Wolcott. The letter was intended for only a few Federalist electors. Upon seeing a draft, several Federalists urged Hamilton not to send it. Wolcott wrote that \"the poor old man\" could do himself in without Hamilton's assistance. Hamilton did not heed their advice. On October 24, he sent a pamphlet strongly attacking Adams' policies and character. Hamilton denounced the \"precipitate nomination\" of Murray, the pardoning of Fries, and the firing of Pickering. He included a fair share of personal insults, vilifying the President's \"disgusting egotism\" and \"ungovernable temper.\" Adams, he concluded, was \"emotionally unstable, given to impulsive and irrational decisions, unable to coexist with his closest advisers, and generally unfit to be president.\" Strangely, it ended by saying that the electors should support Adams and Pinckney equally. Thanks to Burr, who had covertly obtained a copy, the pamphlet became public knowledge and was distributed throughout the country by Republicans, who rejoiced in what it contained. The pamphlet destroyed the Federalist Party, ended Hamilton's political career, and helped ensure Adams' already-likely defeat.\n\nWhen the electoral votes were counted, Adams finished in third place with 65 votes, and Pinckney came in fourth with 64 votes. Jefferson and Burr tied for first place with 73 votes each. Because of the tie, the election devolved upon the House of Representatives, with each state having one vote and a supermajority required for victory. On February 17, 1801 – on the 36th ballot – Jefferson was elected by a vote of 10 to 4 (two states abstained). It is noteworthy that Hamilton's scheme, although it made the Federalists appear divided and therefore helped Jefferson win, failed in its overall attempt to woo Federalist electors away from Adams.\n\nTo compound the agony of his defeat, Adams' son Charles, a long-time alcoholic, died on November 30. Anxious to rejoin Abigail, who had already left for Massachusetts, Adams departed the White House in the predawn hours of March 4, 1801, and did not attend Jefferson's inauguration. Since him, only three out-going presidents (having served a full term) have not attended their successors' inaugurations. The complications arising out of the 1796 and 1800 elections prompted Congress and the states to refine the process whereby the Electoral College elects a president and a vice president through the 12th Amendment, which became a part of the Constitution in 1804.\n\nAdams appointed two U.S. Supreme Court associate justices during his term in office: Bushrod Washington, the nephew of American founding father and President George Washington, and Alfred Moore. After the retirement of Ellsworth due to ill health in 1800, it fell to Adams to appoint the Court's fourth Chief Justice. At the time, it was not yet certain whether Jefferson or Burr would win the election. Regardless, Adams believed that the choice should be someone \"in the full vigor of middle age\" who could counter what might be a long line of successive Republican presidents. Adams chose his Secretary of State John Marshall. He, along with Stoddert, was one of Adams' few trusted cabinet members, and was among the first to greet him when he arrived at the White House. Adams signed his commission on January 31 and the Senate approved it immediately. Marshall's long tenure left a lasting influence on the Court. He maintained a carefully reasoned nationalistic interpretation of the Constitution and established the judicial branch as the equal of the executive and legislative branches.\n\nAfter the Federalists lost control of both houses of Congress along with the White House in the election of 1800, the lame-duck session of the 6th Congress in February 1801 approved a judiciary act, commonly known as the Midnight Judges Act, which created a set of federal appeals courts between the district courts and the Supreme Court. Adams filled the vacancies created in this statute by appointing a series of judges, whom his opponents called the \"Midnight Judges,\" just days before his term expired. Most of these judges lost their posts when the 7th Congress, with a solid Republican majority, approved the Judiciary Act of 1802, abolishing the newly created courts.\n\nAdams resumed farming at Peacefield in the town of Quincy and began work on an autobiography. The work had numerous gaps and was eventually abandoned and left unedited. Most of Adams' attention was focused on farm work. His frugal lifestyle and presidential salary had left him with a considerable fortune by 1801. In 1803, the bank holding his cash reserves of about $13,000 collapsed. John Quincy resolved the crisis by buying his properties in Weymouth and Quincy, including Peacefield, for $12,800. During the first four years of retirement, Adams made little effort to contact others, but eventually resumed contact with old acquaintances such as Benjamin Waterhouse and Benjamin Rush.\n\nAdams generally stayed quiet on public matters. He did not publicly denounce Jefferson's actions as president, believing that \"instead of opposing Systematically any Administration, running down their Characters and opposing all their Measures right or wrong, We ought to Support every Administration as far as We can in Justice.\" When a disgruntled James Callender, angry at not being appointed to an office, turned on the President by revealing the Sally Hemings affair, Adams said nothing. John Quincy was elected to the Senate in 1803. Shortly thereafter, both he and his father crossed party lines to support Jefferson's Louisiana Purchase. The only major political incident involving Adams during the Jefferson years was a dispute with Mercy Otis Warren in 1806. Warren, an old friend, had attacked Adams in a pamphlet for his \"partiality for monarchy\" and \"pride of talents and much ambition.\" A tempestuous correspondence ensued. In time, their friendship healed. Adams did privately criticize the President over his Embargo Act, despite the fact that John Quincy voted for it. John Quincy resigned from the Senate in 1808 after the Federalist-controlled State Senate refused to nominate him for a second term. After the Federalists denounced John Quincy as no longer being of their party, Adams wrote to him that he himself had long since \"abdicated and disclaimed the name and character and attributes of that sect.\"\n\nAfter Jefferson's retirement from public life in 1809, Adams became more vocal. He published a three-year marathon of letters in the \"Boston Patriot\" newspaper, refuting line-by-line Hamilton's 1800 pamphlet. The initial piece was written shortly after his return from Peacefield and \"had gathered dust for eight years.\" Adams had decided to shelve it over fears that it could negatively impact John Quincy should he ever seek office. Although Hamilton had died in 1804 in a duel with Aaron Burr, Adams felt the need to vindicate his character against his charges. With his son having broken from the Federalist Party and joined the Republicans, he felt he could safely do so without threatening his political career. Adams supported the War of 1812. Having worried over the rise of sectionalism, he celebrated the growth of a \"national character\" that accompanied it.\n\nDaughter Abigail (\"Nabby\") was married to Representative William Stephens Smith, but she returned to her parents' home after the failure of the marriage; she died of breast cancer in 1813.\n\nIn early 1801, Adams sent Thomas Jefferson a brief note after returning to Quincy wishing him a happy and prosperous presidency. Jefferson failed to respond, and they did not speak again for nearly 12 years. In 1804, Abigail, unbeknownst to her husband, wrote to Jefferson to express her condolences upon the death of his daughter Polly, who had stayed with the Adamses in London in 1787. This initiated a brief correspondence between the two which quickly descended into political rancor. Jefferson terminated it by not replying to Abigail's fourth letter. Aside from that, by 1812 there had been no communication between Peacefield and Monticello since Adams left office.\n\nIn early 1812, Adams reconciled with Jefferson. The previous year had been tragic for Adams; his brother-in-law and friend Richard Cranch had died along with his widow Mary, and Nabby had been diagnosed with breast cancer. These events mellowed Adams and caused him to soften his outlook. Their mutual friend Benjamin Rush, a fellow signer of the Declaration of Independence who had been corresponding with both, encouraged them to reach out to each other. On New Year's Day, Adams sent a brief, friendly note to Jefferson to accompany the delivery of \"two pieces of homespun,\" a two-volume collection of lectures on rhetoric by John Quincy Adams. Jefferson replied immediately with a cordial letter, and the two men revived their friendship, which they sustained by mail. The correspondence that they resumed in 1812 lasted the rest of their lives, and has been hailed as among their great legacies of American literature. Their letters represent an insight into both the period and the minds of the two revolutionary leaders and presidents. The missives lasted fourteen years, and consisted of 158 letters – 109 from Adams and 49 from Jefferson.\n\nEarly on, Adams repeatedly tried to turn the correspondence to a discussion of their actions in the political arena. Jefferson refused to oblige him, saying that \"nothing new can be added by you or me to what has been said by others and will be said in every age.\" Adams made one more attempt, writing that \"You and I ought not to die before we have explained ourselves to each other.\" Still, Jefferson declined to engage Adams in this sort of discussion. Adams accepted this, and the correspondence turned to other matters, particularly philosophy and their daily habits.\n\nAs the two grew older, the letters became fewer and farther between. There was also important information that each man kept to himself. Jefferson said nothing about his construction of a new house, domestic turmoil, slave ownership, or poor financial situation, while Adams did not mention the troublesome behavior of his son Thomas, who had failed as a lawyer and become an alcoholic, resorting afterwards to living primarily as a caretaker at Peacefield.\n\nAbigail died of typhoid on October 28, 1818. The year 1824 was filled with excitement in America, featuring a four way presidential contest which included John Quincy. The Marquis de Lafayette toured the country and met briefly with Adams, who greatly enjoyed the visit. Adams was delighted by the election of John Quincy to the presidency. The results became official in February 1825 after a deadlock was decided in the House of Representatives. He did remark, \"No man who ever held the office of President would congratulate a friend on obtaining it.\"\n\nLess than a month before his death, Adams issued a statement about the destiny of the United States, which historian Joy Hakim characterized as a warning for his fellow citizens: \"My best wishes, in the joys, and festivities, and the solemn services of that day on which will be completed the fiftieth year from its birth, of the independence of the United States: a memorable epoch in the annals of the human race, destined in future history to form the brightest or the blackest page, according to the use or the abuse of those political institutions by which they shall, in time to come, be shaped by the human mind.\"\n\nOn July 4, 1826, the 50th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, Adams died at his home in Quincy at approximately 6:20 PM. At age 90, Adams was the longest-lived US president until Ronald Reagan surpassed that age in 2001. Adams' crypt lies at United First Parish Church in Quincy, Massachusetts, with his wife Abigail and son John Quincy Adams. At the time of his death, John Quincy Adams was serving as U.S. President. When Adams died, his last words included an acknowledgement of his longtime friend and rival: \"Thomas Jefferson survives.\" Adams was unaware that Jefferson had died several hours before.\n\nDuring the First Continental Congress, Adams was sometimes solicited for his views on government. While recognizing its importance, Adams had privately criticized Thomas Paine's 1776 pamphlet \"Common Sense\", which attacked all forms of monarchy, even constitutional monarchy of the sort advocated by John Locke. It supported a unicameral legislature and a weak executive elected by the legislature. According to Adams, the author had \"a better hand at pulling down than building.\" He believed that the views expressed in the pamphlet were \"so democratical, without any restraint or even an attempt at any equilibrium or counter poise, that it must produce confusion and every evil work.\" What Paine advocated was a radical democracy with the views of the majority neither checked nor counterbalanced. This was incompatible with the system of checks and balances that conservatives like Adams would implement. Some delegates urged Adams to commit his views to paper. He did so in separate letters to these colleagues. So impressed was Richard Henry Lee that, with Adams' consent, he had the most comprehensive letter printed. Published anonymously in April 1776, it was titled \"Thoughts on Government\" and styled as \"a Letter from a Gentleman to his Friend.\" Many historians agree that none of Adams' other compositions rivaled the enduring influence of this pamphlet.\n\nAdams advised that the form of government should be chosen to attain the desired ends – the happiness and virtue of the greatest number of people. He wrote that, \"There is no good government but what is republican. That the only valuable part of the British constitution is so because the very definition of a republic is an empire of laws, and not of men.\" The treatise defended bicameralism, for \"a single assembly is liable to all the vices, follies and frailties of an individual.\" Adams suggested that there should be a separation of powers between the executive, the judicial and the legislative branches, and further recommended that if a continental government were to be formed then it \"should sacredly be confined\" to certain enumerated powers. \"Thoughts on Government\" was referenced in every state-constitution writing hall. Adams used the letter to attack opponents of independence. He claimed that John Dickinson's fear of republicanism was responsible for his refusal to support independence, and wrote that opposition from Southern planters was rooted in fear that their aristocratic slaveholding status would be endangered by it.\n\nAfter returning from his first mission to France in 1779, Adams was elected to the Massachusetts Constitutional Convention with the purpose of establishing a new constitution for Massachusetts. He served on a committee of three, also including Samuel Adams and James Bowdoin, to draft the constitution. The task of writing it fell primarily to John Adams. The resulting Constitution of Massachusetts was approved in 1780. It was the first constitution written by a special committee, then ratified by the people; and was the first to feature a bicameral legislature. Included were a distinct executive – though restrained by an executive council – with a qualified (two-thirds) veto, and an independent judicial branch. The judges were given lifetime appointments, allowed to \"hold their offices during good behavior.\"\n\nThe Constitution affirmed the \"duty\" of the individual to worship the \"Supreme Being,\" and that he had the right to do so without molestation \"in the manner most agreeable to the dictates of his own conscience.\" It established a system of public education that would provide free schooling for three years to the children of all citizens. Adams was a strong believer in good education as one of the pillars of the Enlightenment. He believed that people \"in a State of Ignorance\" were more easily enslaved while those \"enlightened with knowledge\" would be better able to protect their liberties. Adams became one of the founders of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1780.\n\nAdams' preoccupation with political and governmental affairs–which caused considerable separation from his wife and children–had a distinct familial context, which he articulated in 1780: \"I must study Politicks and War that my sons may have the liberty to study Mathematicks and Philosophy. My sons ought to study Geography, natural History, Naval Architecture, navigation, Commerce and Agriculture, in order to give their children a right to study Painting, Poetry, Musick, Architecture, Statuary, Tapestry, and Porcelaine.\"\n\nWhile in London, Adams learned of a convention being planned to amend the Articles of Confederation. In January 1787, he published a work entitled \"A Defence of the Constitutions of Government of the United States\". The pamphlet repudiated the views of Turgot and other European writers as to the viciousness of state government frameworks. He suggested that \"the rich, the well-born and the able\" should be set apart from other men in a senate – that would prevent them from dominating the lower house. Adams' \"Defence\" is described as an articulation of the theory of mixed government. Adams contended that social classes exist in every political society, and that a good government must accept that reality. For centuries, dating back to Aristotle, a mixed regime balancing monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy – that is, the king, the nobles, and the people – was required to preserve order and liberty.\n\nHistorian Gordon S. Wood has maintained that Adams' political philosophy had become irrelevant by the time the Federal Constitution was ratified. By then, American political thought, transformed by more than a decade of vigorous debate as well as formative experiential pressures, had abandoned the classical perception of politics as a mirror of social estates. Americans' new understanding of popular sovereignty was that the citizenry were the sole possessors of power in the nation. Representatives in the government enjoyed mere portions of the people's power and only for a limited time. Adams was thought to have overlooked this evolution and revealed his continued attachment to the older version of politics. Yet Wood was accused of ignoring Adams' peculiar definition of the term \"republic,\" and his support for a constitution ratified by the people.\n\nOn separation of powers, Adams wrote that, \"Power must be opposed to power, and interest to interest.\" This sentiment was later echoed by James Madison's statement that, \"[a]mbition must be made to counteract ambition,\" in Federalist No. 51, explaining the separation of powers established under the new Constitution. Adams believed that human beings were naturally desirous of furthering their own ambitions, and a single democratically elected house, if left unchecked, would be subject to this error, and therefore needed to be checked by an upper house and an executive. He wrote that a strong executive would defend the people's liberties against \"aristocrats\" attempting to take it away. On the government's role in education Adams stated that, \"The whole people must take upon themselves the education of the whole people and be willing to bear the expenses of it. There should not be a district of one mile square, without a school in it, not founded by a charitable individual, but maintained at the public expense of the people themselves.\"\n\nAdams first saw the new United States Constitution in late 1787. To Jefferson, he wrote that he read it \"with great satisfaction.\" Adams did express regret that the president would be unable to make appointments without Senate approval and over the absence of a Bill of Rights. \"Should not such a thing have preceded the model?\" he asked.\n\nAdams never owned a slave and declined on principle to utilize slave labor, saying, \"I have, through my whole life, held the practice of slavery in such abhorrence, that I have never owned a negro or any other slave, though I have lived for many years in times, when the practice was not disgraceful, when the best men in my vicinity thought it not inconsistent with their character, and when it has cost me thousands of dollars for the labor and subsistence of free men, which I might have saved by the purchase of negroes at times when they were very cheap.\" Before the war, he occasionally represented slaves in suits for their freedom. Adams generally tried to keep the issue out of national politics, because of the anticipated Southern response during a time when unity was needed to achieve independence. He spoke out in 1777 against a bill to emancipate slaves in Massachusetts, saying that the issue was presently too divisive, and so the legislation should \"sleep for a time.\" He also was against use of black soldiers in the Revolution due to opposition from Southerners. Slavery was abolished in Massachusetts about 1780, when it was forbidden by implication in the Declaration of Rights that John Adams wrote into the Massachusetts Constitution. Abigail Adams vocally opposed slavery.\n\nThroughout his lifetime Adams expressed controversial and shifting views regarding the virtues of monarchical and hereditary political institutions. At times he conveyed substantial support for these approaches, suggesting for example that \"hereditary monarchy or aristocracy\" are the \"only institutions that can possibly preserve the laws and liberties of the people.\" Yet at other times he distanced himself from such ideas, calling himself \"a mortal and irreconcilable enemy to Monarchy\" and \"no friend to hereditary limited monarchy in America.\" Such denials did not assuage his critics, and Adams was often accused of being a monarchist. Historian Clinton Rossiter portrays Adams not as a monarchist but a revolutionary conservative who sought to balance republicanism with the stability of monarchy to create \"ordered liberty.\" His 1790 \"Discourses on Davila\" published in the \"Gazette of the United States\" warned once again of the dangers of unbridled democracy.\nMany of these attacks are considered to have been scurrilous, including suggestions that he was planning to \"crown himself king\" and \"grooming John Quincy as heir to the throne.\" Peter Shaw has argued that: \"[T]he inevitable attacks on Adams, crude as they were, stumbled on a truth that he did not admit to himself. He was leaning toward monarchy and aristocracy (as distinct from kings and aristocrats) ... Decidedly, sometime after he became vice-president, Adams concluded that the United States would have to adopt a hereditary legislature and a monarch ... and he outlined a plan by which state conventions would appoint hereditary senators while a national one appointed a president for life.\" In contrast to such notions, Adams asserted in a letter to Thomas Jefferson:\n\nAccording to Luke Mayville, Adams synthesized two strands of thought: practical study of past and present governments, and Scottish Enlightenment thinking concerning individual desires expressed in politics. Adams conclusion was that the great danger was that an oligarchy of the wealthy would take hold to the detriment of equality. To counter that danger, the power of the wealthy needed to be channeled by institutions, and checked by a strong executive.\n\nAdams was raised a Congregationalist, since his ancestors were Puritans. According to biographer David McCullough, \"as his family and friends knew, Adams was both a devout Christian, and an independent thinker, and he saw no conflict in that.\" In a letter to Rush, Adams credited religion with the success of his ancestors since their migration to the New World. He believed that regular church service was beneficial to man's moral sense. Everett (1966) concludes that \"Adams strove for a religion based on a common sense sort of reasonableness\" and maintained that religion must change and evolve toward perfection. Fielding (1940) argues that Adams' beliefs synthesized Puritan, deist, and humanist concepts. Adams at one point said that Christianity had originally been revelatory, but was being misinterpreted in the service of superstition, fraud, and unscrupulous power.\n\nFrazer (2004) notes that while he shared many perspectives with deists and often used deistic terminology, \"Adams clearly was not a deist. Deism rejected any and all supernatural activity and intervention by God; consequently, deists did not believe in miracles or God's providence. ... Adams did believe in miracles, providence, and, to a certain extent, the Bible as revelation.\" Frazer argues that Adams' \"theistic rationalism, like that of the other Founders, was a sort of middle ground between Protestantism and deism.\" In 1796, Adams denounced Thomas Paine's deistic criticisms of Christianity in \"The Age of Reason\", saying, \"The Christian religion is, above all the religions that ever prevailed or existed in ancient or modern times, the religion of wisdom, virtue, equity and humanity, let the Blackguard Paine say what he will.\"\n\nIn his retirement years, Adams moved away from some of the Puritan sentiments of his youth and closer to more mainstream Enlightenment religious ideals. He blamed institutional Christianity for causing much suffering but continued to be an active Christian while maintaining that religion was necessary for society. He became a Unitarian, rejecting the divinity of Jesus. David L. Holmes argues that Adams, while adopting central tenets of the Unitarian creed, accepted Jesus as the redeemer of humanity and the biblical accounts of his miracles as true.\n\nFranklin summed up what many thought of Adams when he said, \"He means well for his country, is always an honest man, often a wise one, but sometimes, and in some things, absolutely out of his senses.\" Adams came to be seen as someone with a long, distinguished, and spotless career in public service, and a man of great patriotism and integrity, but whose vanity, stubbornness, and cantankerousness often got him into unnecessary trouble. Adams strongly felt that he would be forgotten and underappreciated by history. These feelings often manifested themselves through envy and verbal attacks on other Founders.\n\nHistorian George Herring argues that Adams was the most independent-minded of the Founders. Though he formally aligned with the Federalists, he was somewhat a party unto himself, at times disagreeing with the Federalists as much as he did the Republicans. He was often described as \"prickly,\" but his tenacity was fed by good decisions made in the face of universal opposition. Adams was often combative, which diminished presidential decorum, as he admitted in his old age: \"[As president] I refused to suffer in silence. I sighed, sobbed, and groaned, and sometimes screeched and screamed. And I must confess to my shame and sorrow that I sometimes swore.\" Stubbornness was seen as one of his defining traits, a fact for which Adams made no apology. \"Thanks to God that he gave me stubbornness when I know I am right,\" he wrote. His resolve to advance peace with France while maintaining a posture of defense reduced his popularity and contributed to his defeat for reelection. Most historians applaud him for avoiding an all-out war with France during his presidency. His signing of the Alien and Sedition Acts is almost always condemned.\n\nAccording to Ferling, Adams' political philosophy fell \"out of step\" with the way that the country was heading. The country tended further away from Adams' emphasis on order and the rule of law and towards the Jeffersonian vision of liberty and weak central government. In the years following his retirement from public life, as first Jeffersonianism and then Jacksonian democracy grew to dominate American politics, Adams was largely forgotten. When his name was mentioned, it was typically not in a favorable way. In the 1840 presidential election, Whig candidate William Henry Harrison was attacked by Democrats on the false allegation that he had once been a supporter of John Adams. Adams was eventually subject to criticism from states' rights advocates. Edward A. Pollard, a strong supporter of the Confederacy during the American Civil War, singled out Adams, writing:\n\nIn the 21st century, Adams remains less well known than many of America's other Founding Fathers. McCullough argued that \"[t]he problem with Adams is that most Americans know nothing about him.\" Todd Leopold of CNN wrote in 2001 that Adams is \"remembered as that guy who served a single term as president between Washington and Jefferson, and as a short, vain, somewhat rotund man whose stature seems to have been dwarfed by his lanky colleagues.\" He has always been seen, Ferling says, as \"honest and dedicated,\" but despite his lengthy career in public service, Adams is still overshadowed by the dramatic military and political achievements and strong personalities of his contemporaries. Gilbert Chinard, in his 1933 biography of Adams, described the man as \"staunch, honest stubborn and somewhat narrow.\" In his 2-volume 1962 biography, Page Smith lauds Adams for his fight against radicals such as Thomas Paine, whose promised reforms portended anarchy and misery. Ferling, in his 1992 biography, writes that \"Adams was his own worst enemy.\" He criticizes him for his \"pettiness ... jealousy, and vanity,\" and faults him for his frequent separations from his wife and children. He praises Adams for his willingness to acknowledge his deficiencies and for striving to overcome them. In 1995, Peter Shaw published \"The Character of John Adams.\" Ferling believes that the man who emerges is one \"perpetually at war with himself,\" whose desire for fame and recognition leads to charges of vanity.\n\nIn 2001, David McCullough published a biography of the president entitled \"John Adams\". McCullough lauds Adams for consistency and honesty, \"plays down or explains away\" his more controversial actions, such as the dispute over presidential titles and the predawn flight from the White House, and criticizes his friend and rival, Jefferson. The book sold very well and was very favorably received and, along with the Ferling biography, contributed to a rapid resurgence in Adams' reputation. In 2008, a miniseries was released based on the McCullough biography, featuring Paul Giamatti as Adams.\n\nAdams is commemorated as the namesake of various counties, buildings, and other items. One example is the John Adams Building of the Library of Congress, an institution whose existence Adams had signed into law. Unlike many other Founders, Adams does not have a monument dedicated to himself in Washington D.C. According to McCullough, \"Popular symbolism has not been very generous toward Adams. There is no memorial, no statue ... in his honor in our nation's capital, and to me that is absolutely inexcusable. It's long past time when we should recognize what he did, and who he was.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175213", "title": "Kai Nielsen (philosopher)", "text": "Kai Nielsen (philosopher)\n\nKai Nielsen (born 1926) is professor emeritus of philosophy at the University of Calgary. Before moving to Canada, Nielsen taught at New York University (NYU). He specializes in metaphilosophy, ethics, and social and political philosophy. Nielsen has also written about philosophy of religion, and is an advocate of contemporary atheism. He is also known for his defense of utilitarianism, writing in response to Bernard Williams's criticism of it.\n\nNielsen got his B.A. at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and his Ph.D. at Duke University. He is the author of some 32 books and 415 articles. Member of the Royal Society of Canada, and past president of the Canadian Philosophical Association. Nielsen is also one of the founding members of the \"Canadian Journal of Philosophy\".\n\nIn 1973 Nielsen was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto II.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31923901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31923901", "title": "LIO (SCSI target)", "text": "LIO (SCSI target)\n\nIn computing, Linux-IO (LIO) Target is an open-source implementation of the SCSI target that has become the standard one included in the Linux kernel. Internally, LIO does not initiate sessions, but instead provides one or more Logical Unit Numbers (LUNs), waits for SCSI commands from a SCSI initiator, and performs required input/output data transfers. LIO supports common storage fabrics, including FCoE, Fibre Channel, IEEE 1394, iSCSI, iSCSI Extensions for RDMA (iSER), SCSI RDMA Protocol (SRP) and USB. It is included in most Linux distributions; native support for LIO in QEMU/KVM, libvirt, and OpenStack makes LIO also a storage option for cloud deployments.\n\nLIO is maintained by Datera, Inc., a Silicon Valley vendor of storage systems and software. On January 15, 2011, LIO SCSI target engine was merged into the Linux kernel mainline, in kernel version 2.6.38, which was released on March 14, 2011. Additional fabric modules have been merged into subsequent Linux releases.\n\nA competing generic SCSI target module for Linux is SCST. For the narrower purpose providing a Linux iSCSI target, the older IET and STGT modules also enjoy industry support.\n\nThe SCSI standard provides an extensible semantic abstraction for computer data storage devices, and as such has become a \"lingua franca\" for data storage systems. The SCSI T10 standards define the commands and protocols of the SCSI command processor (sent in \"SCSI CDBs\"), and the electrical and optical interfaces for various implementations.\n\nA \"SCSI initiator\" is the endpoint that initiates a SCSI session. A \"SCSI target\" is the endpoint that waits for initiator commands and executes the required I/O data transfers. The SCSI target usually exports one or more LUNs for initiators to operate on.\n\nThe LIO Linux SCSI Target implements a generic SCSI target that provides remote access to most data storage device types over all prevalent storage fabrics and protocols. LIO neither directly accesses data nor does it directly communicate with applications. LIO provides a highly efficient, fabric-independent and fabric-transparent abstraction for the semantics of numerous data storage device types.\n\nLIO implements a modular and extensible architecture around a versatile and highly efficient, parallelized SCSI command processing engine. The SCSI target engine implements the semantics of a SCSI target.\n\nThe LIO SCSI target engine is independent of specific fabric modules or backstore types. Thus, LIO supports mixing and matching any number of fabrics and backstores at the same time. The LIO SCSI target engine implements a comprehensive SPC-3/SPC-4 feature set with support for high-end features, including SCSI-3/SCSI-4 \"Persistent Reservations\" (PRs), SCSI-4 \"Asymmetric Logical Unit Assignment\" (ALUA), VMware \"vSphere APIs for Array Integration\" (VAAI), T10 DIF, etc.\n\nLIO is configurable via a configfs-based kernel API, and can be managed via a command-line interface and API (\"targetcli\").\n\nThe concept of a SCSI target isn't narrowly restricted to physical devices on a SCSI bus, but instead provides a generalized model for all receivers on a logical SCSI fabric. This includes SCSI sessions across interconnects with no physical SCSI bus at all. Conceptually, the SCSI target provides a generic block storage service or server in this scenario.\n\nBackstores provide the SCSI target with generalized access to data storage devices by importing them via corresponding device drivers. Backstores don't need to be physical SCSI devices.\n\nThe most important backstore media types are:\n\n\nAs a result, LIO provides a generalized model to export block storage.\n\nFabric modules implement the frontend of the SCSI target by encapsulating and abstracting the properties of the various supported interconnect. The following fabric modules are available.\n\nThe \"Fibre Channel over Ethernet\" (FCoE) fabric module allows the transport of Fibre Channel protocol (FCP) traffic across lossless Ethernet networks. The specification, supported by a large number of network and storage vendors, is part of the Technical Committee T11 FC-BB-5 standard.\n\nLIO supports all standard Ethernet NICs.\n\nThe FCoE fabric module was contributed by Cisco and Intel, and released with Linux 3.0 on July 21, 2011.\n\nFibre Channel is a high-speed network technology primarily used for storage networking. It is standardized in the Technical Committee T11 of the InterNational Committee for Information Technology Standards (INCITS).\n\nThe QLogic Fibre Channel fabric module supports 4- and 8-gigabit speeds with the following HBAs:\n\n\nThe Fibre Channel fabric module and low-level driver (LLD) were released with Linux 3.5 on July 21, 2012.\n\nWith Linux 3.9, the following QLogic HBAs and CNAs are also supported:\n\n\nThis makes LIO the first open source target to support 16-gigabit Fibre Channel.\n\nThe FireWire SBP-2 fabric module enables Linux to export local storage devices via IEEE 1394, so that other systems can mount them as an ordinary IEEE 1394 storage device.\n\nIEEE 1394 is a serial bus interface standard for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer. It was developed by Apple as \"FireWire\" in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and Macintosh computers have supported \"FireWire target disk mode\" since 1999.\n\nThe FireWire SBP-2 fabric module was released with Linux 3.5 on July 21, 2012.\n\nThe \"Internet Small Computer System Interface\" (iSCSI) fabric module allows the transport of SCSI traffic across standard IP networks.\n\nBy carrying SCSI sessions across IP networks, iSCSI is used to facilitate data transfers over intranets and to manage storage over long distances. iSCSI can be used to transmit data over local area networks (LANs), wide area networks (WANs), or the Internet, and can enable location-independent and location-transparent data storage and retrieval.\n\nThe LIO iSCSI fabric module also implements a number of advanced iSCSI features that increase performance and resiliency, such as \"Multiple Connections per Session\" (MC/S) and \"Error Recovery Levels\" 0-2 (ERL=0,1,2).\n\nLIO supports all standard Ethernet NICs.\n\nThe iSCSI fabric module was released with Linux 3.1 on October 24, 2011.\n\nNetworks supporting remote direct memory access (RDMA) can use the iSCSI Extensions for RDMA (iSER) fabric module to transport iSCSI traffic.\niSER permits data to be transferred directly into and out of remote SCSI computer memory buffers without intermediate data copies (\"direct data placement\" or DDP) by using RDMA. RDMA is supported on InfiniBand networks, on Ethernet with data center bridging (DCB) networks via RDMA over Converged Ethernet (RoCE), and on standard Ethernet networks with iWARP enhanced TCP offload engine controllers.\n\nThe iSER fabric module was developed together by Datera and Mellanox Technologies, and first released with Linux 3.10 on June 30, 2013.\n\nThe \"SCSI RDMA Protocol\" (SRP) fabric module allows the transport of SCSI traffic across RDMA (see above) networks. As of 2013, SRP was more widely used than iSER, although it is more limited, as SCSI is only a peer-to-peer protocol, whereas iSCSI is fully routable.\nThe SRP fabric module supports the following Mellanox host channel adapters (HCAs):\n\n\nThe SRP fabric module was released with Linux 3.3 on March 18, 2012.\n\nIn 2012, c't magazine measured almost 5000 MB/s throughput with LIO SRP Target over one Mellanox ConnectX-3 port in 56 Gbit/s FDR mode on a Sandy Bridge PCI Express 3.0 system with four Fusion-IO ioDrive PCI Express flash memory cards.\n\nThe \"USB Gadget\" fabric module enables Linux to export local storage devices via the Universal Serial Bus (USB), so that other systems can mount them as an ordinary storage device.\n\nUSB was designed in the mid-1990s to standardize the connection of computer peripherals, and has also become common for data storage devices.\n\nThe USB Gadget fabric module was released with Linux 3.5 on July 21, 2012.\n\n\"targetcli\" is a user space single-node management \"command line interface\" (CLI) for LIO. It supports all fabric modules and is based on a modular, extensible architecture, with plug-in modules for additional fabric modules or functionality.\n\n\"targetcli\" provides a CLI that uses an underlying generic target library through a well-defined API. Thus the CLI can easily be replaced or complemented by a UI with other metaphors, such as a GUI.\n\n\"targetcli\" is implemented in Python and consists of three main modules:\n\n\nDetailed instructions on how to set up LIO targets can be found on the LIO wiki.\n\n\"targetcli\" and LIO are included in most Linux distributions per default. Here is an overview over the most popular ones, together with the initial inclusion dates:\n\n"}
{"id": "3698728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3698728", "title": "Leonid Stolovich", "text": "Leonid Stolovich\n\nLeonid Naumovich Stolovich (; ; July 22, 1929, Leningrad – November 4, 2013, Tartu) was a Russian–Estonian philosopher, Doctor of Philosophy (1966) and professor (1967). Stolovich graduated from the Leningrad University in 1952, from 1953 on he worked at Tartu University, Estonia, from 1994 on as a professor emeritus.\nAbove all, Stolovich studied esthetics: its history, theories of esthetics and axiology. He is the author of more than forty books and 400 publications in 20 languages. \n\nDuring the \"Perestroika\" era, Stolovich took part in the pro-democracy movement (Popular Front of Estonia). Stolovich’s work “Pluralism in the Philosophy…” decovers 'systematic pluralism', a term coined by Stolovich, which means the unity of dialectical opposites pluralism and monism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4513331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4513331", "title": "Luciano Floridi", "text": "Luciano Floridi\n\nLuciano Floridi (; born 16 November 1964) is currently Professor of Philosophy and Ethics of Information and Director of the Digital Ethics Lab, at the University of Oxford, Oxford Internet Institute, Professorial Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford, Senior Member of the Faculty of Philosophy, Research Associate and Fellow in Information Policy at the Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford, and Distinguished Research Fellow of the Oxford Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics. He is also Adjunct Professor (\"Distinguished Scholar in Residence\"), Department of Economics, American University, Washington D.C.\n\nFloridi is best known for his work on two areas of philosophical research: the philosophy of information and information ethics.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2013, he held the Research Chair in philosophy of information and the UNESCO Chair in Information and Computer Ethics at the University of Hertfordshire. \nHe was the founder and director of the IEG, an interdepartmental research group on the philosophy of information at the University of Oxford, and of the GPI the research Group in Philosophy of Information at the University of Hertfordshire. He was the founder and director of the , the Italian e-journal of philosophy (1995–2008). He is a former Governing Body Fellow of St Cross College, Oxford.\n\nHis works have been translated into Arabic, Chinese, French, Greek, Hungarian, Japanese, Persian, Polish, Portuguese, and Spanish.\n\nFloridi was born in Rome in 1964, and studied at Rome University La Sapienza (Laurea, first class with distinction, 1988), where he was originally educated as a historian of philosophy. He soon became interested in analytic philosophy and wrote his \"tesi di laurea\" (MA dissertation) in philosophy of logic, on Michael Dummett's anti-realism. He obtained his Master of Philosophy (1989) and PhD degree (1990) from the University of Warwick, working in epistemology and philosophy of logic with Susan Haack (who was his PhD supervisor) and Michael Dummett. Floridi's early student years are partly recounted in the non-fiction book \"\", where he was \"Luciano\". During his graduate and postdoctoral years, he covered the standard topics in analytic philosophy in search of a new methodology. He sought to approach contemporary problems from a heuristically powerful and intellectually enriching perspective when dealing with lively philosophical issues. During his graduate studies, he began to distance himself from classical analytic philosophy. In his view, the analytic movement had lost its way. For this reason, he worked on pragmatism (especially Peirce) and foundationalist issues in epistemology and philosophy of logic.\n\nHe was a Lecturer in Philosophy at the University of Warwick in 1990-1. He joined the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Oxford in 1990 and the OUCL (Oxford's Department of Computer Science) in 1999. He was Junior Research Fellow in Philosophy at Wolfson College, Oxford University (1990-4), Frances Yates Fellow in the History of Ideas at the Warburg Institute, University of London (1994–95) and Research Fellow in Philosophy at Wolfson College, Oxford University (1994-2001). During these years in Oxford, he held lectureships in different Colleges. Between 1994 and 1996, he also held a post-doctoral research scholarship at the Department of Philosophy, University of Turin. Between 2001 and 2006, he was Markle Foundation Senior Research Fellow in Information Policy at the Programme in Comparative Media Law and Policy, Oxford University. Between 2002 and 2008, he was Associate Professor of Logic at the Università degli Studi di Bari. In 2006, he became Fellow by Special Election of St Cross College, Oxford University, where he played for the squash team. In 2008, he was appointed full professor of philosophy at the University of Hertfordshire, to hold the newly established research chair in philosophy of information and, since 2009, the UNESCO Chair in Information and Computer Ethics.\n\nIn his first book, \"Scepticism and the Foundation of Epistemology\", Floridi was already looking for a concept of \"subject-independent knowledge\" close to what he now identifies as semantic \"information\". During his postdoctoral studies, as a Junior Research Fellow of Wolfson College, Oxford University, he began to embrace a more Neo-Kantian philosophy, which led him to spend one academic year in Marburg, where he focused on Ernst Cassirer's version of Neo-Kantianism. He began working exclusively on what is now known as the philosophy of information during his years as Research Fellow, still at Wolfson College.\n\nAccording to Floridi, it is necessary to develop a constructionist philosophy, where design, modelling and implementation replace analysis and dissection. Shifting from one set of tasks to the other, philosophy could then stop retreating into the increasingly small corner of its self-sustaining investigations and hence reacquire a wider view about what really matters. Slowly, Floridi has come to characterise his constructionist philosophy as an innovative field, now known as the philosophy of information, the new area of research that has emerged from the computational/informational turn.\n\nFloridi approaches the philosophy of information from the perspectives of logic and epistemology (theoretical), and computer science, IT and Humanities Computing (theoretical).\n\nFor example, in the Preface of \"Philosophy and Computing\", published in 1999, he wrote that the book was meant for philosophy students who need IT literacy to use computers efficiently or indispensable background knowledge for the critical understanding of our digital age. The latter provides a basis for the would-be branch of philosophy, the philosophy of information. PI, or PCI (Philosophy of Computing and Information), became his major research interest.\n\nFloridi's perspective is that there is a need for a broader concept of information, which includes computation, but not only computation. This new framework provides a theoretical framework within which to make sense of various lines of research that have emerged since the fifties. The second advantage is PI’s perspective on the development of philosophy through time. In his view, PI gives us a much wider and more profound perspective on what philosophy might have actually been doing throughout the centuries.\nCurrently, Floridi is working on two areas of research: computer ethics (see the entry information ethics) and the concept of information. Key to this area of work is the claim that ICT (Information and Communications Technology) is radically re-engineering or re-ontologizing the infosphere.\n\nFellow by Special Election of St Cross College, University of Oxford\n\nEthics and Information Technology, Springer, published a special issue in two numbers dedicated to his work.\n\nFirst philosopher to be awarded the Gauss Professorhip by\nthe Göttingen Academy of Sciences.\n\nWinner of the American Philosophical Association's Barwise Prize\nThe APA's Newsletter dedicates two issues to his work.\nSee also his \"Replies\".\n\nElected Fellow of the Society for the Study of Artificial Intelligence and the Simulation of Behaviour (SSAISB).\n\nAppointed UNESCO Chair in Information and Computer Ethics.\n\nAppointed Editor-in-chief of Springer's new journal\n\nMetaphilosophy, Blackwell-Wiley, published a special issue dedicated to his work.\nSee also his \"The Philosophy of Information - Ten Years Later\", with replies to the articles published in the special issue.\n\nUniversity of Hertfordshire, Vice Chancellor Award 2010: \"Highly commended for research supporting engagement with business, the profession and partner organisations\".\n\nElected Fellow of the Center for Information Policy Research, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee.\n\nKnowledge, Technology and Policy, Springer, published a special issue dedicated to his work.\n\nLaurea honoris causa in Philosophy, University of Suceava, Romania, for \"foundational research on the philosophy of information\".\n\nAISB/IACAP World Congress (in Honor of Alan Turing, 1912-1954), dedicates its \"Author Meets Critics Session\" to Luciano Floridi's \"The Philosophy of Information\".\n\nWinner of the International Association for Computing And Philosophy - IACAP's Covey Award for \"outstanding research in computing and philosophy\".\n\nPhilosophy of Technology and Engineering, Springer, published a collection of essays dedicated to \"Luciano Floridi's Philosophy of Technology - Critical Reflections\".\n\nWinner of the International Society for Ethics and Information Technology - INSEIT's Weizenbaum Award for \"significant contribution to the field of information and computer ethics, through his or her research, service, and vision.\"\n\nElected member of the Académie Internationale de Philosophie des Sciences\n\nMinds and Machines, Springer, is preparing a special issue dedicated to his work, entitled \"Philosophy in the Age of Information: A Symposium on Luciano Floridi's The Philosophy of Information (Oxford, 2011)\"\n\nJournal of Experimental and Theoretical Artificial Intelligence, Taylor & Francis, is preparing a special issue dedicated to his work, entitled \"Inforgs and the Infosphere: Themes from Luciano Floridi's Philosophy of Artificial Intelligence\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2109530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109530", "title": "Narrative logic", "text": "Narrative logic\n\nNarrative logic describes any logical process of narrative analysis used by readers or viewers to understand and draw conclusions from narratives. Narrative logic is a tool through which the audience may infer actions, events, intentions, thoughts, beliefs, values, and feelings of characters and narrators, or otherwise elucidate details not included in the narrative. For example, if a character is in Paris in one scene and in Nice the next, the audience can infer that she traveled, and later references to that travel will not be illogical or unexplainable simply because the trip was not explicitly described. In the same way, if a gun is shown in the drawer of a character's desk, the audience can infer that the gun will be or has been used in some way relevant to the plot. Authors will often play with conventional patterns of narrative logic by attempting to plant \"false leads\" or to hide important clues, leading audiences to improper conclusions or even to doubt their sense of what is really happening.\n\nIt is necessary to build a logical argument based upon the content of a narrative, using its events and rhetoric as evidence to infer other elements necessary to produce a coherent and consistent plot, theme, and argument. This is done to ensure that one's argument does not contradict or alter the narrative itself. Problems and disagreements may arise from this fixity of the narrative because it should also preclude alteration of the artistic statement being conveyed, something that is open to subjective interpretation and may be paradoxical or illogical in itself. Thus, this process is generally imperfect since, as with all narrative analysis and most forms of logic, different applications and interpretations can lead to differing conclusions.\n\nNarrative logic becomes explicit or even labored to create continuity where there is a plot hole or some intentional gap in a narrative, or to explain other unresolved issues within a narrative (i.e. questions such as \"Did this character die or simply disappear?\" or \"Why did two instances under the same circumstances lead to different results?\"). It may also be used for other purposes, such as answering theoretical questions derived from the narrative (i.e. \"What would happen if...?\" or \"Who would win in a battle between...?\"). In a broader sense it is used in devices such as character development, since a character is defined by the interpretations of its actions and the rhetoric used to describe it.\n\nConsider the question of what happens to the character of Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah) in this movie. At the end of the movie a shot is shown of each of the characters on the Bride's kill list with a caption telling the fate of the character. For Elle Driver the caption reads \"???,\" director Quentin Tarantino seemingly leaving it up to the audience to decide. Using narrative logic, we take all relevant information from the narrative and come to a conclusion about Driver's fate. Driver is last depicted thrashing about in a trailer, having been blinded by the Bride. This trailer is also occupied by a deadly black mamba, a fact that is emphasized when it is shown poised to strike as the Bride leaves the trailer. Logically, a thrashing, blind woman and threatened snake occupying a confined space would lead most to conclude that Driver falls prey to the snake and is dead at the end of the film. This conclusion may be further supported by taking into consideration the film's rhetorical and artistic devices. The film is largely a tale of deadly vengeance, and the other targets of the Bride are known to be dead at the film's end, thus the ending is better rounded by assuming Driver to likewise be dead. Also, the Bride's codename is Black Mamba, and this same snake killed another of the Bride's targets, so if one presumes the snake is a rhetorical extension of the Bride's wrath, it would most likely strike Driver down while she is vulnerable.\nHowever, one may also argue that Driver survived. Again, this conclusion can be supported with logic and analysis of the movie's narrative. The strongest evidence may be the very fact that Driver's fate is left open to question. Another point is that, despite blindness, Driver is still a highly trained professional who would not easily succumb to death by a small reptile.\n\nThis example shows how the application of narrative logic may lead to different conclusions using the same evidence. However, these conclusions are similar in that they do not detract from the narrative itself, but only build upon it.\n"}
{"id": "14563922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14563922", "title": "Nikodym set", "text": "Nikodym set\n\nIn mathematics, a Nikodym set is a subset of the unit square in formula_1 with complement of Lebesgue measure zero, such that, given any point in the set, there is a straight line that only intersects the set at that point. The existence of a Nikodym set was first proved by Otto Nikodym in 1927. Subsequently, constructions were found of Nikodym sets having continuum many exceptional lines for each point, and Kenneth Falconer found analogues in higher dimensions. \n\nNikodym sets are closely related to Kakeya sets (also known as Besicovitch sets).\n\nThe existence of Nikodym sets is sometimes compared with the Banach–Tarski paradox. There is, however, an important difference between the two: the Banach–Tarski paradox relies on non-measurable sets.\n\nMathematicians have also researched Nikodym sets over finite fields (as opposed to formula_2).\n"}
{"id": "5330553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5330553", "title": "Ninjō", "text": "Ninjō\n\nThe classic example of \"ninjō\" is that of a samurai who falls in love with an unacceptable partner (perhaps somebody of low social class or somebody of an enemy clan). As a loyal member of his clan, he then becomes torn between the obligation to his feudal lord and his personal feelings, with the only possible resolution being \"shinjū\" or double love-suicide. The correspondence to William Shakespeare's play \"Romeo and Juliet\" or the Aeneid would be made by Japanese and non-Japanese alike. The question of whether modern Japanese still feel a greater sense of giri than their Western counterparts, and thus remain in some ineffable way psychologically closer to this sort of giri-ninjo conflict is precisely where nihonjinron divides into the Japan-centric and Japan-skeptic camps.\n"}
{"id": "1341221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1341221", "title": "Notes on \"Camp\"", "text": "Notes on \"Camp\"\n\n\"Notes on 'Camp\" is an essay by Susan Sontag first published in 1964. It was her first contribution to the \"Partisan Review\". The essay created a literary sensation and brought Sontag intellectual notoriety. It was republished in 1966 in Sontag's debut collection of essays, \"Against Interpretation\".\n\nThe essay codified and mainstreamed the cultural connotations of the word \"camp\" and identified camp's evolution as a distinct aesthetic phenomenon.\n\nWilliam Bayer's essay \"Juniors and Heavies\", originally published in his 1971 book \"Breaking Through, Selling Out, Dropping Dead And Other Notes On Filmmaking\", was patterned after \"Notes On Camp\". (Bayer referred to Sontag's essay in the new material he contributed to the book's 1989 revised edition.)\n"}
{"id": "327776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327776", "title": "Ophites", "text": "Ophites\n\nThe Ophites or Ophians (Greek Ὀφιανοί \"Ophianoi\", from ὄφις \"ophis\" \"snake\") were members of a Christian Gnostic sect depicted by Hippolytus of Rome (170–235) in a lost work, the \"Syntagma\" (\"arrangement\").\n\nIt is now thought that later accounts of these \"Ophites\" by Pseudo-Tertullian, Philastrius and Epiphanius of Salamis are all dependent on the lost \"Syntagma\" of Hippolytus. It is possible that rather than an actual sectarian name Hippolytus may have invented \"Ophite\" as a generic term for what he considered heretical speculations concerning the serpent of Genesis or Moses.\n\nApart from the sources directly dependent on Hippolytus (Pseudo-Tertullian, Philastrius and Epiphanius), Origen and Clement of Alexandria also mention the group. The group is mentioned by Irenaeus in \"Adversus Haereses\" (1:30).\n\nPseudo-Tertullian (probably the Latin translation of the lost work \"Syntagma\" of Hippolytus, written c. 220) is the earliest source to mention Ophites, and the first source to discuss the connection with serpents. He claims (\"Haer\". 2.1-4) that the Ophites taught that\n\nThe name \"Jesus\" is not mentioned in the account. Epiphanius' account differs from that of Pseudo-Tertullian only in a few places. According to the former, the Ophites did not actually prefer the snake to Christ, but thought them identical (\"Pan\". 37.1.2; 2.6; 6.5-6; 8.1).\n\nThis lost earlier treatise of Hippolytus appears to have contained a section on the Ophites, following that on the Nicolaitans, with whom they were brought into connection. Philaster has mistakenly (obviously) transposed this and two other sections, beginning his treatise on heresies with the Ophites, and making the Ophites, Cainites, and Sethians pre-Christian sects. The section of Hippolytus appears to have given a condensed account of the mythological story told by Irenaeus. In giving the name Ophite, however, he appears to have brought into greater prominence than Irenaeus the characteristics of the sect indicated by the word, their honour of the serpent, whom they even preferred to Christ, their venerating him because he taught our first parents the knowledge of good and evil, their use of the references to the brazen serpent in the Old and New Testament, and their introduction of the serpent into their Eucharistic celebration.\n\nThe great difference between the earlier and the later treatise of Hippolytus is that the former was a mere compilation, his account of the opinions of heresies being in the main derived from the lectures of Irenaeus; but at the time of writing the latter, he had himself read several heretical writings, of which he gives an extract in his treatise. In this book he makes a contemptuous mention of the Ophites in company with the Cainites and Nochaitae (8:20) as heretics whose doctrines did not deserve the compliment of serious exposition or refutation.\n\nAnd it is strange that he does not seem to suspect that these heretics have any connection with those who form the subject of his fifth book. In that book he treats of sects which paid honour to the serpent, giving to the first of these sects the name Naassenes, a title which he knows is derived from the Hebrew word for serpent (\"Nahash\"-נחש). Possibly Hippolytus restricted the name Ophites to the sect described by Irenaeus, which has very little in common with that which he calls Naassenes. This book contains sections on several other Ophite systems, that of the Peratae, Sethians and of Justinus.\n\nIrenaeus (died c. 202) gives, in what seems intended for chronological order, a list of heresies, beginning with Simon Magus and ending with Tatian, and adds in a kind of appendix a description of a variety of Gnostic sects deriving their origin, as Irenaeus maintains, from the heresy of Simon Magus (\"Against Heresies\" 1:23-28). This chronology is not considered historically accurate by most modern authors.\n\nHe details what has been identified by subsequent writers as an Ophite cosmogony. Creation began as a series of emanations:\n\nThe True and Holy Church:\n\nOf the beauty of the Holy Spirit, both First and Second Man became enamoured, and they generated from her a third male, an Incorruptible Light, called Christ.\n\nBut the excess of light with which she had been impregnated was more than she could contain, and while Christ her right-hand birth was borne upward with his mother, forming with the First and Second Man the True and Holy Church, a drop of light fell on the left hand downwards into the world of matter, and was called Sophia (Wisdom) or Prunikos, an androgynous being.\n\nBy this arrival the still waters were set in motion, all things rushing to embrace the Light, and Prunikos wantonly playing with the waters, assumed to herself a body, without the protection of which the light was in danger of being completely absorbed by matter. Yet when oppressed by the grossness of her surroundings, she strove to escape the waters and ascend to her mother, the body weighed her down, and she could do no more than arch herself above the waters, constituting thus the visible heaven. In process of time, however, by intensity of desire she was able to free herself from the encumbrance of the body, and leaving it behind to ascend to the region immediately above, called in the language of another sect the middle region.\n\nMeanwhile a son, Ialdabaoth, born to her from her contact with the waters, having in him a certain breath of the incorruptible light left him from his mother, by means of which he works, generates from the waters a son without any mother. And this son in like manner another, until there were seven Archons in all, ruling the seven heavens; a Hebdomad which their mother completes into an Ogdoad.\n\n\nBut it came to pass that these sons strove for mastery with their father Ialdabaoth, whereat he suffered great affliction, and casting his despairing gaze on the dregs of matter below, he, through them, consolidated his longing and obtained a son Ophiomorphus, the serpent-formed Nous, whence come the spirit and soul, and all things of this lower world; but whence came also oblivion, wickedness, jealousy, envy, and death. Ialdabaoth, stretching himself over his upper heaven, had shut out from all below the knowledge that there was anything higher than himself, and having puffed up with pride at the sons whom he had begotten without help from his mother, he cried,\n\nOn this his mother, hearing him, cried out (),\n\nWhen the heavenly powers marvelled at this voice, Ialdabaoth, to call off their attention, exclaimed, \"Let us make man after our image.\" Then the six powers formed a gigantic man, the mother Sophia having given assistance to the design, in order that by this means she might recover the Light-fluid from Ialdabaoth. For the man whom the six powers had formed, lay unable to raise itself, writhing like a worm until they brought it to their father, who breathed into it the breath of life, and so emptied himself of his power. But the man having now Thought and Conception (Nous and Enthymesis), forthwith gave thanks to the First Man, disregarding those who had made him.\n\nAt this Ialdabaoth, being jealous, planned to despoil the man by means of a woman, and formed Eve, of whose beauty the six powers being enamoured generated sons from her, namely, the angels. Then Sophia devised by means of the serpent to seduce Eve and Adam to transgress the precept of Ialdabaoth; and Eve, accepting the advice of one who seemed a Son of God, persuaded Adam also to eat of the forbidden tree. And when they ate they gained knowledge of the power which is over all, and revoked from those who had made them. Thereupon Ialdabaoth cast Adam and Eve out of Paradise; but the mother had secretly emptied them of the Light-fluid in order that it might not share the curse or reproach. So they were cast down into this world, as was also the serpent who had been detected in working against his father. He brought the angels here under his power, and himself generated six sons, a counterpart of the Hebdomad of which his father was a member. These seven demons always oppose and thwart the human race on whose account their father was cast down.\n\nAdam and Eve at first had light and clear and, as it were, spiritual bodies, which on their fall became dull and gross; and their spirits were also languid because they had lost all but the breath of this lower world which their maker had breathed into them; until Prunikos taking pity on them gave them back the sweet odour of the Light-fluid through which they woke to a knowledge of themselves and knew that they were naked. \n\nThe above is clearly a variant of the account of the Creation given in chapter 1 of The Book of Genesis - but with the major difference that the single, omnipotent God of the original Biblical story is here depicted as Ialdabaoth - one of many Divine beings, and not the most important of them, with his claim to exclusive Godhood described as an arrogant and false usurpation. \n\nThe story proceeds to give a version of Old Testament history, in which Ialdabaoth is represented as making a series of efforts to obtain exclusive adoration for himself, and to avenge himself on those who refused to pay it, while he is counteracted by Prunikos, who strives to enlighten mankind as to the existence of higher powers more deserving of adoration. In particular the prophets who were each the organ of one of the Hebdomad, the glorification of whom was their main theme, were nevertheless inspired by Sophia to make fragmentary revelations about the First Man and about Christ above, whose descent also she caused to be predicted.\n\nAnd here we come to the version given of New Testament history in this system. Sophia, having no rest either in heaven or on earth, implored the assistance of her mother, the First Woman. She, moved with pity at her daughter's repentance, begged of the First Man that Christ should be sent down to her assistance. Sophia, apprized of the coming help, announced his advent by John, prepared the baptism of repentance, and by means of her son, Ialdabaoth, got ready a woman to receive the annunciation from Christ, in order that when he came there might be a pure and clean vessel to receive him, namely Jesus, who, being born of a virgin by divine power, was wiser, purer, and more righteous than any other man. Christ then descended through the seven heavens, taking the form of the sons of each as he came down, and depriving each of their rulers of his power. For wheresoever Christ came the Light-fluid rushed to him, and when he came into this world he first united himself with his sister Sophia, and they refreshed one another as bridegroom and bride, and the two united descended into Jesus (though never actually dwelling in his flesh), who thus became Jesus Christ. Then he began to work miracles, and to announce the unknown Father, and to declare himself manifestly the son of the First Man. Then Ialdabaoth and the other princes of the Hebdomad, being angry, sought to have Jesus crucified, but Christ and Sophia did not share his passion, having withdrawn themselves into the incorruptible Aeon. But Christ did not forget Jesus, but sent a power which raised his body up, not indeed his choical body, for \"flesh and blood cannot lay hold of the kingdom of God,\" but his animal and spiritual body. So it was that Jesus did no miracles, either before his baptism, when he was first united to Christ, or after his resurrection, when Christ had withdrawn himself from him. Jesus then remained on earth after his resurrection eighteen months, at first himself not understanding the whole truth, but enlightened by a revelation subsequently made him, which he taught to a chosen few of his disciples, and then was taken up to heaven.\n\nThe story proceeds to tell that Christ, sitting on the right hand of the father Ialdabaoth, without his knowledge enriches himself with the souls of those who had known him, inflicting a corresponding loss on Ialdabaoth. For as righteous souls instead of returning to him are united to Christ, Ialdabaoth is less and less able to bestow any of the Light-fluid on souls afterwards entering this world, and can only breathe into them his own animal breath. The consummation of all things will take place when, by successive union of righteous souls with Christ, the last drop of the Light-fluid shall be recovered from this lower world.\n\nThe system here expounded evidently implies a considerable knowledge of the Old Testament on the part either of its inventor or expounder. It begins with \"the spirit of God moving on the face of the waters,\" and it summarises the subsequent history, even mentioning the sacred writers by name. Yet that it is not the work of those amicable to Judaism is evident from the hostility shown to the God of the Jews, who is represented as a mixture of arrogance and ignorance, waging war against idolatry from mere love of self-exaltation, yet constantly thwarted and overcome by the skill of superior knowledge. The feminine attributes ascribed to the Holy Spirit indicate that Greek was not the native language of the framer of this system, and this conclusion is confirmed by the absence of elements derived from Greek philosophic systems. If, for instance, we compare this system with that of Valentinus, we discover at once so much agreement in essential features as to assure us of the substantial identity of the foundation of the two systems; but the Valentinian system contains several things derived from Greek philosophy, whereas that which we have described can be explained from purely Oriental sources. We are entitled therefore to regard the latter as representing the more original form. The reporter of this system is clearly acquainted with the New Testament, since he adopts a phrase from the Epistle to the Corinthians; he knows that Jesus habitually spoke of himself as Son of Man; and in denying that Jesus performed miracles before his baptism, he adopts the history as told in the Gospels in opposition to that told in apocryphal Gospels of the Infancy. The place which the doctrine of a Trinity holds in this system is significant.\n\nAlthough, following Theodoret, we have given the name Ophite to the system described by Irenaeus, it will have been seen that the doctrine concerning the serpent forms a very subordinate part of the system. In the passage immediately following the chapter we have analysed, Irenaeus shows acquaintance with a section of the school who may be called Ophite in the proper sense of the word, some teaching that Sophia herself was the serpent, some glorifying Cain and other enemies of the God of the Old Testament.\n\nIf we were to single out what we regard as the most characteristic feature of the scheme, it is the prominence given to the attribute of light as the property of the good Principle. This feature is still more striking in the derived system of \"Pistis Sophia\", where the mention of light is of perpetual occurrence, and the dignity of every being is measured by the brilliancy of its light.\n\nIn the section of Irenaeus immediately preceding that of which we have just given an account, there is a summary of a system which has been called Barbeliot, from its use of the name Barbelo to denote the supreme female principle. It contains some of the essential features of the scheme just described, of which it seems to have been a development, principally characterized by a great wealth of nomenclature, and, with the exception of the name which has given a title to the system, all derived from the Greek language.\n\nClement of Alexandria (c. 150-c. 215) incidentally mentions Cainites and Ophites, (\"Stromata\" 7:17) but gives no explanation of their tenets. Nor do we suppose that there is any reason to connect with this sect his reprobation of the use of serpent ornaments by women (\"Instructor\" 2:13).\n\nOrigen (c. 185–254) is led to speak of the Ophites () by an accusation of Celsus that the Christians counted seven heavens, and spoke of the Creator as an accursed divinity, inasmuch as he was worthy of execration for cursing the serpent who introduced the first human beings to the knowledge of good and evil. Origen replies that Celsus had mixed up matters, and had confounded with the Christians the Ophites, who so far from being Christians would not hear the name of Jesus, nor own him to have been so much as a wise and virtuous man, nor would admit anyone into their assembly until he had cursed Jesus. It may be doubted whether Origen has not here been misinformed about a sect of which he intimates that he knows but little. According to all other authorities the Ophites claimed to be Christians. Elsewhere Origen classes the Ophites as heretics of the graver sort with the followers of Marcion, Valentinus, Basilides, and Apelles (\"Commentary on Matthew\" 3:852). The identity of the nomenclature shows that for Origen, these Ophites of Origen are a branch of the unnamed sect described by Irenaeus.\n\nThe names of the seven princes of the Hebdomad, as given by Origen, agree completely with the list of Irenaeus (). Origen also gives the names of the seven demons. Irenaeus only gives the name of their chief, but that one is enough to establish a more than accidental coincidence, since it is a name we should not have expected to find as the name of a demon, namely, Michael. The name Prunikos is also found in the report of Origen. Origen gives what must have been one of the valuable secrets of this sect, viz. the formula to be addressed by an ascending soul to each of the princes of the hebdomad in order to propitiate him to grant a passage through his dominions. Perhaps the secret would have been more jealously guarded if it were not that in addition to the use of the formula, it seems to have been necessary to produce at each gate a certain symbol. These would only be in the possession of the initiated, and we may imagine that they were buried with them. He gives the formulae in the inverse order; i.e. first the formula to be used by a soul which has passed through the highest heaven and desires to enter the Ogdoad; next the formula to be used in order to gain admission to the highest heaven, and so on.\n\nOrigen also gives a description of an Ophite diagram, which Celsus likewise had met with, consisting of an outer circle, named Leviathan, denoting the soul of all things, with ten internal circles, variously coloured, the diagram containing also the figures and names of the seven demons. Many have attempted to reproduce the figure from Origen's description, but in truth Origen has not given us particulars enough to enable us to make a restoration with confidence, or even to enable us to understand what was intended to be represented. Origen names Euphrates as the introducer of the doctrine of the sect which he describes, and the sect may have been that branch of the Ophites who are called Peratae.\n\nOphite teaching was, most likely, dying out in the days of Hippolytus; in the time of Epiphanius it was not absolutely extinct, but the notices in his work would lead us to think of it as but the eccentric doctrine of some stray heretic here and there, and not to have counted many adherents. In the 5th century Theodoret tells (\"Heresies\" 1:24) of having found serpent worship practised in his diocese by people whom he calls Marcionites, but whom we may believe to have been really Ophites.\n\nOf the Nag Hammadi Gnostic texts that mention the serpent, three appear related to early church accounts of the Ophites. These texts are \"Hypostasis of the Archons, On the Origin of the World,\" and the \"Apocryphon of John\".\n\nOur Lady of Endor Coven, a cult established in 1948, was strongly influenced by the teachings of the ancient Ophites, as given in the above sources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6556377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6556377", "title": "Outline of epistemology", "text": "Outline of epistemology\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to epistemology:\n\nEpistemology or theory of knowledge – branch of philosophy concerned with the nature and scope of knowledge. The term was introduced into English by the Scottish philosopher James Frederick Ferrier (1808–1864). Epistemology asks the questions: \"What is knowledge?\", \"How is knowledge acquired?\", and \"What do people know?\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4028538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4028538", "title": "Pay it forward", "text": "Pay it forward\n\nPay it forward is an expression for describing the beneficiary of a good deed repaying it to others instead of to the original benefactor.\n\nThe concept is old, but the phrase may have been coined by Lily Hardy Hammond in her 1916 book \"In the Garden of Delight\".\n\n\"Pay it forward\" is implemented in contract law of loans in the concept of third party beneficiaries. Specifically, the creditor offers the debtor the option of paying the debt forward by lending it to a third person instead of paying it back to the original creditor. This contract may include the provision that the debtor may repay the debt in kind, lending the same amount to a similarly disadvantaged party once they have the means, and under the same conditions. Debt and payments can be monetary or by good deeds. A related type of transaction, which starts with a gift instead of a loan, is alternative giving.\n\nPay it forward was used as a key plot element in the denouement of a New Comedy play by Menander, \"Dyskolos\" (a title which can be translated as \"The Grouch\"). \"Dyskolos\" was a prizewinning play in ancient Athens in 317 BC; however, the text of the play was lost and it was only recovered and republished in 1957.\n\nThe concept was rediscovered and described by Benjamin Franklin, in a dated April 25, 1784:\n\nRalph Waldo Emerson, in his 1841 essay \"Compensation\", wrote: \"In the order of nature we cannot render benefits to those from whom we receive them, or only seldom. But the benefit we receive must be rendered again, line for line, deed for deed, cent for cent, to somebody.\"\n\nIn 1916, Lily Hardy Hammond wrote, \"You don't pay love back; you pay it forward.\"\n\nWoody Hayes (February 14, 1913 – March 12, 1987) was a college football coach who is best remembered for winning five national titles and 13 Big Ten championships in 28 years at The Ohio State University. He misquoted Emerson as having said \"You can pay back only seldom. You can always pay forward, and you must pay line for line, deed for deed, and cent for cent.\" He also shortened the (mis)quotation into \"You can never pay back; but you can always pay forward\" and variants.\n\nThe 1929 novel, \"Magnificent Obsession\", by Lloyd C. Douglas, also espoused this philosophy, in combination with the concept that good deeds should be performed in confidence.\n\nAn anonymous spokesman for Alcoholics Anonymous said in the \"Christian Science Monitor\" in 1944, \"You can't pay anyone back for what has happened to you, so you try to find someone you can pay forward.\"\n\nAlso in 1944, the first steps were taken in the development of what became the Heifer Project, one of whose core strategies is \"Passing on the Gift\".\n\nThe term \"pay it forward\" was popularized by Robert A. Heinlein in his book \"Between Planets\", published in 1951:\n\nHeinlein both preached and practiced this philosophy. Today, the Heinlein Society, a humanitarian organization founded in his name, practices it in the form of various programs such as blood drives, free educational CDs for teachers, and US$500 scholarships.\nAuthor Spider Robinson made repeated reference to the doctrine, attributing it to his spiritual mentor Heinlein.\n\nHeinlein was a mentor to Ray Bradbury, giving him help and quite possibly passing on the concept, made famous by the publication of a letter from him to Heinlein thanking him. In Bradbury's novel \"Dandelion Wine\", published in 1957, when the main character Douglas Spaulding is reflecting on his life being saved by Mr. Jonas, the Junkman:\n\nBradbury has also advised that writers he has helped thank him by helping other writers.\n\nThe mathematician Paul Erdős heard about a promising math student unable to enroll in Harvard University for financial reasons. Erdős contributed enough to allow the young man to register. Years later, the man offered to return the entire amount to Erdős, but Erdős insisted that the man rather find another student in his situation, and give the money to him.\nSome time in 1980, a sixteen-page supplemental Marvel comic appeared in the \"Chicago Tribune\" entitled “What Price a Life?” and was subsequently reprinted as the backup story in \"Marvel Team-Up\" #126 dated February, 1983. This was a team-up between Spider-Man and The Incredible Hulk, in which Spider-Man helps the Hulk escape from police who mistakenly thought that he was attacking them. Afterwards, they meet in their secret identities, with Peter Parker warning Bruce Banner to leave town because of the Hulk’s seeming attack on police. But Banner is flat broke, and cannot afford even bus fare. As a result, Parker gives Banner his last $5 bill, saying that someone had given him money when he was down on his luck, and this was how he was repaying that debt. Later, in Chicago, the Hulk confronts muggers who had just robbed an elderly retired man of his pension money, all the money he had. After corralling the muggers, the Hulk turns towards the victim. The retiree thinks that the Hulk is about to attack him as well, but instead, the Hulk gives him the $5 bill. It transpires that the very same old man had earlier given a down-on-his-luck Peter Parker a $5 bill.\n\nIn 2000, Catherine Ryan Hyde's novel \"Pay It Forward\" was published and adapted into a film of the same name, distributed by Warner Bros. and starring Kevin Spacey, Helen Hunt and Haley Joel Osment. In Ryan Hyde's book and movie it is described as an obligation to do three good deeds for others in response to a good deed that one receives. Such good deeds should accomplish things that the other person cannot accomplish on their own. In this way, the practice of helping one another can spread geometrically through society, at a ratio of three to one, creating a social movement with an impact of making the world a better place.\n\nThe Pay it Forward Movement and Foundation was founded in the USA helping start a ripple effect of kindness acts around the world. The newly appointed president of the foundation, Charley Johnson, had an idea for encouraging kindness acts by having a Pay it Forward Bracelet that could be worn as a reminder. Since then, over a million Pay it Forward bracelets have been distributed in over 100 countries sparking acts of kindness. Few bracelets remain with their original recipients, however, as they circulate in the spirit of the reciprocal or generalized altruism.\n\nIn 2007, International Pay it Forward Day was founded in Australia by Blake Beattie. It has now spread to 70 countries with over 50 state and city proclamations. It is estimated that it has inspired over 5 million acts of kindness and has featured on 7, 9, 10, ABC, NBC, Fox 5, Fox 8 and Global News in Canada.\n\nOn April 5, 2012, WBRZ-TV, the American Broadcasting Company affiliate for the city of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, did a story on The Newton Project, a 501(c)(3) outreach organization created to demonstrate that regardless of how big the problems of the world may seem, each person can make a difference simply by taking the time to show love, appreciation and kindness to the people around them. It is based on the classic pay-it-forward concept, but demonstrates the impact of each act on the world by tracking each wristband with a unique ID number and quantifying the lives each has touched. The Newton Project’s attempt to quantify the benefits of a Pay It Forward type system can be viewed by the general public at their website.\n\nInspired by John F. Kennedy who profoundly declared, \"Let us think of education as the means of developing our greatest abilities, because in each of us there is a private hope and dream which, fulfilled, can be translated into benefit for everyone and greater strength for our nation\", The Student Body of America Association, a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization, has initiated its Project Pay it Forward program to implement education with the pay-it-forward concept.\n\nBusinesses have also adopted the concept as part of their corporate culture. Fargo, N.D.-based Bell Bank started a Pay It Forward program in 2007, inspired by Oprah Winfrey’s “Pay It Forward” project. The program gives full-time employees $1,000 and part-time employees $500 each year to give to people and organizations in need. Employees are also given $1,000 to give to a customer, vendor or community member to donate to someone else. The program has given out more than $8 million so far.\n\nAfter launching the program, Michael Solberg, Bell Bank’s president and CEO, appeared on a number of news outlets to talk about it, including \"Good Morning America\", CBS’s \"The Early Show\", Fox News and \"CBS Evening News\" with Katie Couric.\n\nSeveral firms have adopted the pay it forward approach as an economic model. These include Karma Kitchen, where patrons' meals have already been paid for by previous customers, and customers are then encouraged to contribute toward future patrons' meals. Heifer Project International pioneered the approach in sustainable development, and it has been utilized by microfinance lenders. Some authors advocate the pay it forward approach be utilized as the primary means of economic transaction.\nSuch models have begun to be the topic of research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "955000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=955000", "title": "Raya Dunayevskaya", "text": "Raya Dunayevskaya\n\nRaya Dunayevskaya, born Raya Shpigel (; May 1, 1910 – June 9, 1987), later Rae Spiegel, also known by the pseudonym Freddie Forest, was the American founder of the philosophy of Marxist Humanism in the United States. At one time Leon Trotsky's secretary, she later split with him and ultimately founded the organization News and Letters Committees and was its leader until her death.\n\nOf Jewish descent, Dunayevskaya was born Raya Shpigel in today's Ukraine and emigrated to the United States (her name changed to Rae Spiegel) and joined the revolutionary movement in her childhood. Active in the American Communist Party youth organization, she was expelled at age 18 and thrown down a flight of stairs when she suggested that her local comrades should find out Trotsky's response to his expulsion from the Soviet Communist Party and the Comintern. By the following year she found a group of independent Trotskyists in Boston, led by Antoinette Buchholz Konikow, an advocate of birth control and legal abortion. In the 1930s, she adopted her mother's maiden name Dunayevskaya.\n\nWithout getting permission from the U.S. Trotskyist organization, she went to Mexico in 1937 to serve as Leon Trotsky's Russian language secretary during his exile there. Having returned to Chicago in 1938 after the deaths of her father and brother, she broke with Trotsky in 1939 when he continued to maintain that the Soviet Union was a \"workers' state\" even after the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. She opposed any notion that workers should be asked to defend this \"workers' state\" allied with Nazi Germany in a world war. Along with theorists such as C. L. R. James, and later Tony Cliff, Dunayevskaya argued that the Soviet Union had become 'state capitalist'. Toward the end of her life, she stated that what she called \"my real development\" only began after her break with Trotsky.\n\nHer simultaneous study of the Russian economy and of Marx's early writings (later known as the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\"), led to her theory that not only was the U.S.S.R. a 'state capitalist' society, but that 'state capitalism' was a new world stage. Much of her initial analysis was published in \"The New International\" in 1942-1943.\n\nIn 1940, she was involved in the split in the Socialist Workers Party that led to the formation of the Workers Party (WP), with which she shared an objection to Trotsky's characterisation of the Soviet Union as a 'degenerated workers' state'. Within the WP, she formed the Johnson–Forest Tendency alongside C. L. R. James (she being \"Freddie Forest\" and he \"J.R. Johnson\", named for their party cadre names). The tendency argued that the Soviet Union was 'state capitalist', while the WP majority maintained that it was bureaucratic collectivist.\n\nDifferences within the WP steadily widened, and in 1947, after a brief period of independent existence during which they published a series of documents, the tendency returned to the ranks of the SWP. Their membership in the SWP was based on a shared insistence that there was a pre-revolutionary situation just around the corner, and the shared belief that a Leninist party must be in place to take advantage of the coming opportunities.\n\nBy 1951, with the failure of their shared perspective to materialize, the tendency developed a theory that rejected Leninism and saw the workers as being spontaneously revolutionary. This was borne out for them by the 1949 U.S. miners' strike. In later years, they were to pay close attention to automation, especially in the automobile industry, which they came to see as paradigmatic of a new stage of capitalism. This led to the tendency leaving the SWP again to begin independent work.\n\nAfter more than a decade of developing the theory of state capitalism, Dunayevskaya continued her study of the Hegelian dialectic by taking on a task the Johnson–Forest Tendency had set itself: exploring Hegel's \"Philosophy of Mind\". In 1954 she initiated a decades long correspondence with the Critical Theorist, Herbert Marcuse, in which the necessity and freedom dialectic in Hegel and Marx became a focal point of contention.http://marxist-humanistdialectics.blogspot.com/2018/03/coming-out-in-may-necessity-and-freedom.html She advanced an interpretation of Hegel's Absolutes holding that they involved a dual movement: a movement from practice that is itself a form of theory and a movement from theory reaching to philosophy. She considered these 1953 letters to be \"the philosophic moment\" from which the whole development of Marxist Humanism flowed.\n\nIn 1953 Dunayevskaya moved to Detroit, where she was to live until 1984. In 1954-1955 she and C. L. R. James engaged in a split. In 1955, she founded her own organization, News and Letters Committees, and a Marxist-Humanist newspaper, \"News & Letters\", which remains in publication today. The newspaper covers women's struggles, the liberation of workers, people of color, gay, lesbian, bisexual and transsexual rights and the disability rights movement, while not separating that coverage from philosophical and theoretical articles. The organization split in 2008-9 and the U.S. Marxist-Humanists (later to become the International Marxist-Humanist Organization) was formed.\n\nDunayevskaya wrote what came to be known as her \"trilogy of revolution\": \"\" (1958), \"Philosophy and Revolution\" (1973), and \"Rosa Luxemburg, Women's Liberation, and Marx's Philosophy of Revolution\" (1982). In addition, she selected and introduced a collection of writings, published in 1985, \"Women's Liberation and the Dialectics of Revolution\".\n\nIn the last year of her life she was working on a new book which she had tentatively titled, \"Dialectics of Organization and Philosophy: The 'Party' and Forms of Organization Born Out of Spontaneity\".\n\nRaya Dunayevskaya's speeches, letters, publications, notes, recordings and other items are located in the Walter P. Reuther Library at Wayne State University in Detroit. Microfilm copies of the collection are available from the WSU Archives of Labor and Urban Affairs. Guides to the collection are available from News and Letters Committees.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39530371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39530371", "title": "Richard Laughton", "text": "Richard Laughton\n\nRichard Laughton (1670?–1723) was an English churchman and academic, now known as a natural philosopher and populariser of the ideas of Isaac Newton.\n\nOriginally from London, he was educated at Clare College, Cambridge, where he was admitted as a sizar in 1680. He graduated B.A. in 1685, proceeded M.A. in 1691, and was created D.D. by mandate in 1717.\n\nAbout 1693 Laughton was chaplain to John Moore, the bishop of Norwich. In 1694 he was appointed tutor of his college, and in this capacity he acquired a reputation. John Colbatch, in his commemoration sermon preached in Trinity College Chapel, 17 December 1717, said of Laughton \"We see what a conflux of nobility and gentry the virtue of one man draws daily to one of our least colleges\". More colloquially, he was called a \"pupil-monger\". Among his pupils were Martin Folkes, Benjamin Ibbot, and Robert Greene. He encouraged the study of Newton's \"Principia\".\n\nIn politics Laughton was a Whig. He had the backing of Simon Patrick, the bishop of Ely, in college matters, who wrote to the Master of Clare, Samuel Blythe, on his behalf in 1697. Later Moore, who succeeded Patrick in the see, acted in the same way.\n\nLaughton became vicar of Stow-cum-Quy in 1709. He was a supporter of the Newtonian philosophy; and when in 1710–1711 he had as senior proctor to appoint a moderator for the examinations, he took on the duty himself. He brought forward questions on the Newtonian theory; and divided candidates into two classes. In the history of the Tripos, his attention to the provisions of Elizabethan statutes allowing M.A.'s to question the B.A. candidates is considered another factor in the development of a differentiated examination system.\n\nSamuel Clarke, in the preface to his edition of Jacques Rohault's treatise on Physics, acknowledged his obligation to Laughton. W. W. Rouse Ball thought that Laughton was a significant influence on Clarke, who offered a Newtonian proposition in 1711. It is now argued that John Ellys is the likely source in this case. Laughton did induce William Browne, of Peterhouse, to tackle a mathematical question.\n\nWilliam Whiston called Laughton a friend and excellent tutor; and recorded his vain efforts to turn him back from his adoption of Arianism. It was to Laughton that Lady Masham addressed a well-known letter describing the closing scene of John Locke's life.\n\nLaughton was on close terms with Richard Bentley. He met Conrad von Uffenbach, who visited Cambridge in 1710. That year he was, as proctor, a prominent reformer of academic discipline; his efforts involved him in clashes with other leading members of the university, including Conyers Middleton and Thomas Gooch, who found him officious. Laughton's targets included Stourbridge fair and coffee houses. He also closed clubs and broke up gatherings at taverns. The incident with Middleton was a party at the Rose Tavern, and involved drinking the health of the high Tory Henry Sacheverell on 3 July 1710, which Laughton reported to the authorities. The political atmosphere ahead of the general election of October 1710 was fraught: Laughton was a known Whig militant, and his action brought a tit-for-tat reprisal by Tories.\n\nIn 1713 Laughton was an unsuccessful candidate for the mastership of his college, in an election that saw political tensions in Clare itself. Robert Greene, his former pupil, made clear his Tory allegiance. William Grigg was elected; in fact both he and Laughton were allies of Bentley and his reformist programme. Taking on George Parker as pupil in 1715, Laughton also reported to his father Lord Parker, the prominent Whig, on university politics. Laughton and Parker's agent Thomas Bell were heavily involved in supporting candidates for head of house, such as John Davies of Queens'.\n\nIn 1717 Laughton preached before King George I; his prominence has led to a tentative identification in the \"Dunciad\". He was installed prebendary of the eighth stall in Worcester Cathedral. He died on 28 July 1723.\n\nLaughton published \"A Sermon preach'd before the King at King's College Chapel in Cambridge\" (1717). He published some verses, and left in manuscript his speech, as senior proctor, in the bachelors' schools, and \"On Natural Religion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13618930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13618930", "title": "Ryszard Legutko", "text": "Ryszard Legutko\n\nRyszard Antoni Legutko (), born 24 December 1949, is a Polish philosopher and politician. Professor of philosophy at the Jagellonian University in Kraków, specializing in ancient\nphilosophy and political theory.\n\nUnder communism he was one of the editors of the samizdat quarterly “Arka”. After the collapse of the communist regime he co-founded the Centre for Political Thought, which combines research, teaching, seminars and conferences and is also a publishing house. He has translated and written commentaries to Plato’s \"Phaedo\" (1995), \"Euthyphro\" (1998) and \"Apology\" (2003). He is the author of several books: \"Plato’s Critique of Democracy\" (1990), \"Toleration\" (1997), \"A Treatise on Liberty\" (2007) and \"An Essay on the Polish Soul\" (2008), \"Socrates\" (2013).\n\nIn 2005 he was elected to a seat in the Polish Senate (representing the Law and Justice Party), where he became Deputy Speaker. In 2007 he was Poland’s Education Minister, and in 2007-2009 Secretary of State in the Chancellery of President Lech Kaczyński. He is currently a member of the European Parliament, where he sits on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and a Co-chairman of the Conservatives and Reformists parliamentary group.\n\nSued in 2010 for violation of personal rights by calling students who demanded removal of Christian symbols from a public school “unruly brats spoiled by their parents”, he asked for a dismissal of the case based on his immunity as a member of European Parliament. In 2011 the court denied that request. Plaintiffs are represented by an attorney on a pro-bono basis under the Precedential Cases Program of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights.\n\nFellow of Collegium Invisibile as a professor of philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "25023044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25023044", "title": "Spirit spouse", "text": "Spirit spouse\n\nThe spirit spouse is one of the most widespread elements of shamanism, distributed through all continents and at all cultural levels. Often, these spirit husbands/wives are seen as the primary helping spirits of the shaman, who assist them in their work, and help them gain power in the world of spirit. The relationships shamans have with their spirit spouses may be expressed in romantic, sexual, or purely symbolic ways, and may include gender transformation as a part of correctly pairing with their \"spouse\". Shamans report engaging with their spirit spouses through dreams, trance, and other ritual elements. In some cultures, gaining a spirit spouse is a necessary and expected part of initiation into becoming a shaman. Evidence of spirit spouses may be seen in non-shamanic cultures as well, including dreams about Christ by nuns, who are considered to be \"brides of Christ\".\n\nIn South America, the shaman is a dominant figure. The type of shamanism practiced in this region has similarities with those of ethnic groups residing in Siberia and these include the process of initiation. In both of these societies, the process included marriage to a spirit spouse. For instance, the K'iche' in Momostenango, Guatemala—Diviners \"are recruited in a classical shamanic fashion, including divine election – through ... dreams – and the process involves a marriage to a spirit spouse.\" In addition, the \"male elders who decide on community leadership roles all possess female personal icons (\"bara\") which commonly manifest themselves in dreams as women.\" \"Quichés openly talk about the bara as a spouse\". \"Quichés are open and expressive in talking about and playing with their \"bara\", or metaphoric 'spouses,' kissing, fondling, opening, and caressing them\".\n\nEvents that highlight the role of the spirit spouse include the Andean people's Tinku Festival, held in the first week of May. This Andean religious event celebrates Pachamama, a goddess considered to be the Mother Earth. The festivity includes a ceremonial ritual, wherein participants shed blood as sacrifice and offering to the goddess in order to acquire blessing and guarantee a plentiful harvest. Shamans troop to the Tinku Festival to search for their spirit spouse. \n\nIn Mapuche, in Chile—\"human-like wekufe include Punkure and Punfüta, nocturnal ... spouses ... in their dreams\".\n\nSandwich Islands—\"ʼaumakua could ... have sex with living persons during the night. These spirit mates ... could be of help\".\n\nKaluli on the northern slope of Mt. Bosavi in Papua—\"Mediums are men who have married spirit women in a dream\". \"The medium is always a man who is married (in a dream) to a woman of the invisible world. When he has a child by her, he is able to go to sleep, leave his body, and walk about in the \"mama\" world.\"\n\nKodi of Sumba Island in southern Indonesia—A man \"dreamed that he had an encounter with two wild spirits who lived in the forest ... The wild spirit takes the form of a seductive woman, asking for ... sexual favors in return for the magical powers she controls.\" A generation later, this man's son \"was seduced by the wild spirit woman he saw and entered into a \"spirit marriage\" (\"ole marapu\")\" with her, she becoming \"his \"spirit wife\" (\"ariwyei marapu\")\".\n\nChina—\"King Xiang (Hsiang; third century B.C.E) is said to have dreamt of a tryst with a goddess on Wu Shan (Witch's Mountain), with the goddess seizing the initiative.\" In another translation, \"Witch's Mountain\" is \"Shamanka Mountain\". This goddess of Wu Shan \"transformed into the fungus-like yaocao 媱草\", the \"edible mushroom\" being a metaphor in courtship for marriage.\n\nGoldi of Siberia, along Sea of Japan: A male shaman may have in dreams a divine wife as \"ayami\" (\"spirit-helper\").\n\nYukaghir of Siberia, along upper Kolyma River: The goddess of hunting is \"a lustful young woman whom hunters must persuade to provide them with prey animals by seducing her in their dreams.\"\n\nYakut of Siberia: The daughters of the abassy (\"deities\"), \"in appearing to the shaman in his dream, ... enter into sexual intercourse with him.\" Thereby she imparts to him \"luck\".\n\nNganasan of Siberia: A woman in a shamanist family married the smallpox-spirit: she \"became a wife of the Smallpox in her dream.\"\n\nBuryat of Siberia: In shamanic dreams, \"The soul of a Buryat novice travels to the center of the world, where it meets, in an amorous encounter, the nine wives of Tekha, the god of ... dance. Eventually, the soul meets there his future celestial spouse.\"\n\nAkkad: \"Hemerologies reveal that the \"ardat lilī\"-demoness could pick a man as mate (\"hâru\")\" The \"\"ardat lilī\"-demoness (associated with Lilith of Jewish mythology)\" appeared to men in dreams.\n\nIn Christian literature, there are demons called incubus and succubus, who are also called types of spirit spouses. They are specifically referred to as spirit wife and spirit husband, respectively. We knew of these creatures, for instance, in the work of St. Augustine where it was stated that \"many have verified it by their own experience and trustworthy persons have corroborated the experiences others told, that sylvans and fauns, commonly called incubi, have often wicked assaults upon women.\" These creatures are considered as spirit spouses, who only exist in dreams having intercourse with the dreamer. Some sources state that they are acquired through sexual promiscuity and are prominently connected with witchcraft spells, love potions, and lust.\n\nIn France, there is a belief that \"during the night, in dreams, which he contrives to excite, he takes care to be the principal object of her ideas...'tis her sylph that causes her those pleasing reveries\". \"Humans long to mate with sylphs, according to the Comte de Gabalis, because they want to live forever\".\n\nEwe of Togo: variant in Haiti (Vodou)—\"Wedding ceremonies between Vodou divinities and their devotees take place ... It is also believed that there is sexuality between the conjugal pair, by way of dreams.\"\n\nBaule of Côte d'Ivoire: \"Baule statuary is dominated by elaborate figures carved to symbolize \"spirit spouses\". Baule mythology dictates that every adult, male or female, has such a spouse, manifested through dreams.\" Each woman has a \"blolo bian\" (\"spirit-husband\"), and each man has a \"blolo bla\" (\"spirit-wife\"): these may be encountered in dreams; \"Every Baule man and woman living in the world has in the \"blɔlɔ\" a \"spirit spouse\". Women have a \"blɔlɔ bian\" ... and men have a \"blɔlɔ bla\" ... This dream partner is always described as very beautiful\". Figurines representing them made be made for particular reasons. The blolo is able to give \"good luck\".\n\nAmongst the varied tribes of southern Nigeria such as the Yoruba and the Igbo, \"Spirit Spouses of the Sea\" are common features of life due to the geographical closeness of their cultures to the Atlantic Ocean, though attitudes to their supposed existence depend largely on the religious inclinations of the individuals concerned. For example, a Yoruba traditionalist might look at a conjugal visit from a dream-based lover in much the same way as the aforementioned Ewe and Baule do, whereas a Muslim or Christian tribesman in the same situation would most likely look at it as a grave misfortune and seek the mystic aid of a spiritual counsellor to rectify what he would see as a probably dangerous connection to an otherworldly \"demon\".\n\nThe controversial, self-proclaimed traditional witch Robin Artisson includes a variation of the Norse fetch concept in his book \"The Witching Way of the Hollow Hill\". He supports this with the thesis that the questing/rescuing heroes in myths, legends, and fairy tales can be seen as the soul, and rescued maidens as the fetch bride. However, he does not make it clear if this occurs in dreams, shamanic journeys in a trance state, or both—though trance work is an important part of his theology and recommended practice. Some other Neopagan authors from very different traditions have also hinted at the possibility spiritual-sexual union of some sort with divine or spirit being.\n\nThe practice of dream-based spirit-marriage would appear to exclude and be excluded by (i.e., not be practiced by the same practitioners, nor perhaps even ever known in the same ethnic culture, as) the practice of opposite-gender spirit-possession mediumship. The latter practice (of opposite-gender spirit-possession mediumship) is attested in, e.g., Okinawa, Siam, and Burma, in each of which areas it would appear to be mainly (if not entirely) based on non-remembered (putatively non-conscious) trance. \n\nThe practice of dream-based spirit-marriage would appear likewise to exclude and be excluded by shallower trances involving some partial degree of control (but permanently and continuously, instead of merely intermittently as was the case in non-remembered trance) of the practitioner by a spirit-entity of opposite gender from that of the practitioner; which is attested not only among the berdache in tribes of the Great Plains of North America, but also among the manang in Borneo, and perhaps also among numerous other persons and geographic regions (including European practitioners of homosexual magic, etc.).\n\nThai—For a male spirit-medium, \"female spirits possess the medium on Saturdays\"; for which occasions the male medium is attired in feminine garments—these are events of spirit-possession by the medium's \"losing consciousness\". However, dreaming is not significant for T'ai spirit-mediumship. (There is, nevertheless, some degree of similarity between this practice of becoming possessed by an opposite-gender spirit regularly on a particular day of the week; and the custom in Haitian spirit-marriage of regularly devoting a particular day of the week to one's marital duty to that spirit.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "499358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=499358", "title": "Thiruvalluvar", "text": "Thiruvalluvar\n\nThiruvalluvar, also known as Valluvar, was a celebrated Tamil poet and philosopher. He is best known for authoring \"Thirukkuṛaḷ\", a collection of couplets on ethics, political and economical matters, and love. The text is considered as one of the finest works of the Tamil literature.\n\nMuch of the information about Valluvar comes from legendary accounts, and little is known with certainty about his family background, religious affiliation, or birthplace. He lived in present-day Tamil Nadu state of India, and his floruit is dated variously from 4th century BCE to 7th century CE based on the traditional accounts and the linguistic analyses of his writings.\n\nValluvar has literally influenced every scholar down the ages since his time across the ethical, social, political, economical, religious, philosophical, and spiritual spheres. Because the life, culture and ethics of the Tamils are considered to be solely defined in terms of the values set by the Kural literature, the government and the people of Tamil land alike venerate Valluvar and his work with utmost reverence. He is known by numerous honorific designations, such as Saint, First Poet, Divine Poet, Brahma, and Great Scholar.\n\nThere is negligible authentic information about the life of Valluvar. In fact, neither his actual name nor the original title of his work can be determined with certainty. \"Tirukkural\" itself does not name its author. Reminiscing this, Monsieur Ariel, a French scholar of the 19th century, famously said of the \"Tirukkural\" thus: \"Ce livre sans nom, par un auteur sans nom\" (\"The book without a name by an author without a name\"). The name \"Thiruvalluvar\" was first mentioned in the later text Tiruvalluva Maalai (c. 10th century).\n\nVarious claims have been made regarding Valluvar's occupation. One tradition claims that he was a Paraiyar weaver. Another theory is that he must have been from the agricultural caste of Vellalars because he extols agriculture in his work. Mu Raghava Iyengar speculated that \"valluva\" in his name is a variation of \"vallabha\", the designation of a royal officer. S. Vaiyapuri Pillai derived his name from \"valluvan\" (a Paraiyar caste of royal drummers) and theorized that he was \"the chief of the proclaiming boys analogous to a trumpet-major of an army\".\n\nThe poem \"Kapilar Akaval\" (or \"Ahaval\"), purportedly written by Kapilar, describes its author as a brother of Valluvar. It states that they were children of a Pulaya woman named Adi and a Brahmin named Bhagwan. The poem claims that the couple had seven children, including three sons (Thiruvalluvar, Kapilar, and Atikaman) and four sisters (Awai, Uppai, Uruvai, and Velli). However, this legendary account is spurious. Kamil Zvelebil dates \"Kapilar Ahaval\" to 15th century CE, based on its language. Various biographies mention the name of Valluvar's wife as Vasuki, but such details are of doubtful historicity.\n\nGeorge Uglow Pope called Valluvar \"the greatest poet of South India\", but according to Kamil Zvelebil, he does not seem to have been a poet. According to Zvelebil, while the author handles the metre very skillfully, the \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" does not feature \"true and great poetry\" throughout the work, except, notably, in the third book (pleasure). This suggests that Valluvar's main aim was not to produce a work of art, but rather an instructive text focused on wisdom, justice, and ethics.\n\nThe \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" has been dated variously from 300 BCE to 7th century CE. According to traditional accounts, it was the last work of the third Sangam and was subjected to a divine test (which it passed). The scholars who believe this tradition, such as Somasundara Bharathiar and M. Rajamanickam, date the text to as early as 300 BCE. Historian K. K. Pillay assigned it to the early 1st century CE.\n\nLinguist Kamil Zvelebil is certain that \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" does not belong to the Sangam period and dates it to somewhere between 450 and 500 CE. His estimate is based on the language of the text, its allusions to the earlier works, and its borrowing from some Sanskrit treatises. Zvelebil notes that the text features several grammatical innovations, that are absent in the older Sangam literature. The text also features a higher number of Sanskrit loan words compared with these older texts. According to Zvelebil, besides being part of the ancient Tamil literary tradition, the author was also a part of the \"one great Indian ethical, didactic tradition\", as a few of his verses seem to be translations of the verses in Sanskrit texts such as \"Mānavadharmaśāstra\" and Kautilya's \"Arthaśāstra.\n\nS. Vaiyapuri Pillai assigned the work to c. 650 CE, believing that it borrowed from some Sanskrit works of the 6th century CE. Zvelebil disagrees with this assessment, pointing out that some of the words that Pillai believed to be Sanskrit loan words have now been proved to be of Dravidian origin by Thomas Burrow and Murray Barnson Emeneau.\n\nWith the exact date of Valluvar still under debate, taking the latest of the estimated dates, the Tamil Nadu government is using 31 BCE as the year of Valluvar, as suggested by Maraimalai Adigal, from 18 January 1935. Thus, the Valluvar year is calculated by adding 31 to any year of the common era.\n\nThe poem \"Kapilar Akaval\" states that Valluvar was born on the top of an oil-nut tree in Mayilapuram (Mylapore in Chennai). On the other hand, the poem number 21 of \"Tiruvalluva Maalai\" claims that he was born in Madurai.\n\nIn 2005, a 3-member research team from the Kanyakumari Historical and Cultural Research Centre (KHCRC) claimed that Valluvar was born in Thirunayanarkurichi, a village in present-day Kanyakumari district. Their claim was based on an old Kani tribal leader who told them that Valluvar was a king who ruled the \"Valluvanadu\" territory in the hilly tracts of the Kanyakumari district.\n\nValluvar is generally thought to have belonged to either Jainism or Hinduism. Valluvar's treatment of the concept of ahimsa or non-violence, which is the principal concept of both these religions, bolsters this. In particular, his treatment of the chapters on strict vegetarianism (or veganism) (Chapters 26 and 32) and non-killing (Chapter 33) reflects the Jain precepts, where these are stringently enforced. The three parts that the Kural literature is divided into, namely, \"aram\" (virtue), \"porul\" (wealth) and \"inbam\" (love), aiming at attaining \"veedu\" (ultimate salvation), follow, respectively, the four foundations of Hinduism, namely, dharma, artha, kama and moksha. His mentioning of God Vishnu in couplets 610 and 1103 and Goddess Lakshmi in couplets 167, 408, 519, 565, 568, 616, and 617 hints at the Vaishnavite beliefs of Valluvar. Other eastern beliefs of the poet found in the book include previous birth and rebirth, seven births, and some ancient Indian astrological concepts, among others.\n\nHowever, owing to the Kural text's non-denominational nature, almost every religious group in India, including Christianity, has claimed the work and its author as one of their own.\n\nKamil Zvelebil believes that the ethics of the \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" reflect the Jain moral code (e.g. \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" 251-260 talks about vegetarianism, and \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" 321-333 talks against killing). Zvelebil states that the text features \"several purely Jaina technical terms\", such as the following epithets of God:\n\n\nZvelebil notes that even the 13th century Hindu scholar Parimēlaḻakar, who wrote a commentary on \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\", accepted that such epithets are applicable only to the Jain Arhat. Some other epithets mentioned in the text also reflect a \"strong ascetic flavour\" characteristic of Jainism:\n\n\nZvelebil further states that Valluvar seems to have been \"cognizant of the latest developments\" in Jainism. Zvelebil theorizes that he was probably \"a learned Jain with eclectic leanings\", who was well-acquainted with the earlier Tamil literature, and also had some knowledge of the Sanskrit texts.\n\nMultiple Hindu sects have claimed Valluvar as one of their own and have tried to align his verses with their own teachings. Shaivites have characterised Valluvar as a devotee of Shiva and have installed his images in their temples.\n\nAnti-caste activist Iyothee Thass, who converted to Buddhism, claimed that Valluvar was originally called \"Tiruvalla Nayanar\", and was a Buddhist. Thass described him as follows: Tiruvalla Nayanar was born in Madurai, as the son of King Kanchan and Queen Upakesi. When he grew up, the prince wandered across many countries, until he joined a Buddhist sangam at Thinnanur. There, he learned about the Buddhist doctrine from his guru Chakaya Munivar. Thass further contended that the name \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" is a reference to the Buddhist \"Tripiṭaka\". He claims that Valluvar's book was originally called \"Tirikural\" (\"Three Kurals\"), because it adhered to the three Buddhist scriptures \"Dhamma Pitaka\", \"Sutta Pitaka\", and \"Vinaya Pitaka\". According to Thass, the legend that presents Valluvar as the son of a Brahmin father and a Paraiyar mother was invented by Brahmins, who wanted to Hinduise a Buddhist text.\n\nChristian missionary George Uglow Pope claimed that the \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" shows Christian influence, particularly from the Alexandrian school. He theorized that Valluvar came into contact with Christian teachers such as Pantaenus in Mayilapur and incorporated the ideas from the Christian scriptures in his text. Pope praises the Kural as an \"echo of the 'Sermon on the Mount.'\" In the Introduction to his English translation of the Kural, Pope even claims, \"I cannot feel any hesitation in saying that the Christian Scriptures were among the sources from which the poet derived his inspiration.\" Zvelebil states that Pope was \"rather overenthusiastic in discovering strong traces of Christianity\" in \"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" and dismisses Pope's hypothesis as based on \"vague impressions\". Since the 1960s, some South Indian Christians led by M. Deivanayagam at the Madras Christian College, have even characterized Valluvar as a disciple of Thomas the Apostle. According to this theory, Thomas visited present-day Chennai, where Valluvar listened to his lectures on the Sermon of the Mount. Several Tamil scholars, both Christian and Hindu, have criticized this claim as inaccurate. Nevertheless, the chapters on the ethics of vegetarianism (Chapter 26) and non-killing (Chapter 33), which the Kural emphasizes emphatically and unambiguously unlike the Bible or other Abrahamic religious texts, suggest that the ethics of the Kural is rather a reflection of the Jaina moral code than of Christian ethics.\n\n\"Tirukkuṛaḷ\" is the chief work attributed to Valluvar. It is one of the most revered ancient works in the Tamil language. It contains 1330 couplets, which are divided into 133 sections of 10 couplets each. The first 38 sections are about ethics (\"aram\"), the next 70 about political and economic matters (\"porul\"), and the rest are about love (\"inbam\"). The text has been translated into several languages, including a translation into Latin by Constanzo Beschi in 1699, which helped make the work known to European intellectuals.\n\nValluvar is also believed to be the author of two Tamil texts on medicine, \"Gnana Vettiyan\" (1500 verses) and \"Pancharathnam\" (500 verses), although many scholars claim that they were by a later author with the same name, since they appear to have been written in the 16th and 17th centuries. These books, 'Pancharathnam' and 'Gnana Vettiyan', contribute to Tamil science, literature and other ayurvedic medicines. In addition to these, there are 15 other texts that are attributed to Valluvar, namely, \"Rathna Sigamani\" (800 verses), \"Karpam\" (300 verses), \"Nadhaantha Thiravukol\" (100 verses), \"Naadhaantha Saaram\" (100 verses), \"Vaithiya Suthram\" (100 verses), \"Karpaguru Nool\" (50 verses), \"Muppu Saathiram\" (30 verses), \"Vaadha Saathiram\" (16 verses), \"Muppu Guru\" (11 verses), \"Kavuna Mani\" (100 verses), \"Aeni Yettram\" (100 verses), \"Guru Nool\" (51 verses), \"Sirppa Chinthamani\" (a text on astrology), \"Tiruvalluvar Gyanam\", and \"Tiruvalluvar Kanda Tirunadanam\".\n\nA temple-like memorial to Valluvar, Valluvar Kottam, was built in Chennai in 1976. This monument complex consists of structures usually found in Dravidian temples, including a temple car carved from three blocks of granite, and a shallow, rectangular pond. The auditorium adjoining the memorial is one of the largest in Asia and can seat up to 4,000 people.\n\nThere is a 133-foot tall statue of Valluvar erected at Kanyakumari at the southern tip of the Indian subcontinent, where the Arabian Sea, the Bay of Bengal, and the Indian Ocean converge. The 133 feet denote Tirukkuṛaḷ's 133 chapters or \"athikarams\" and the show of three fingers denote the three themes \"Aram\", \"Porul\", and \"Inbam\", that is, the sections on morals, wealth and love. The statue was designed by V. Ganapati Sthapati, a temple architect from Tamil Nadu. On 9 August 2009, a statue was unveiled in Ulsoor, near Bengaluru, also making it the first of its kind in India for a poet of a local language to be installed in its near states other than his own home land. There is also a statue of Valluvar outside the School of Oriental and African Studies in Russell Square, London.\n\nThe Government of Tamil Nadu celebrates the 15th (16th on leap years) of January (the 2nd of the month of 'Thai' as per Tamil Calendar) as \"Thiruvalluvar Day\" in the poet's honour, as part of the Pongal celebrations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9535433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9535433", "title": "Thomas Kingsmill Abbott", "text": "Thomas Kingsmill Abbott\n\nReverend Thomas Kingsmill Abbott (26 March 1829 – 18 December 1913) was an Irish scholar and educator.\n\nAbbott was born in Dublin and was educated at Trinity College. He took his degree in 1851 and was made a fellow of the college in 1854. He obtained an M.A. and a D.Litt. from Trinity, and was ordained a minister in the Church of Ireland.\n\nIn 1852 he solved a geometrical problem posed by J. J. Sylvester.\n\nHe occupied the chair of moral philosophy (1867–72), of biblical Greek (1875–88), and of Hebrew (1879–1900). In 1887 he was elected librarian in Trinity and, in 1900, completed catalogues of the library's manuscript holdings. He was one of a group of Irish scholars, including J. P. Mahaffy, who made significant contributions to the dissemination and study of the works of Immanuel Kant. His translation of Kant's \"Critique of Practical Reason\" remained the standard English version of the text well into the 20th century.\n\nIn June 1901, he received an honorary doctorate in Divinity from the University of Glasgow.\n\nIn 1859 he married Caroline Kingsmill, eldest daughter of the penologist Rev. Joseph Kingsmill.\n\nHe died in Killiney in Dublin on 18 December 1913.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29595962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29595962", "title": "Tithing settlement", "text": "Tithing settlement\n\nTithing settlement is the name of a formalized series of meetings held at local congregations of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). During tithing settlement, each member of the church is individually interviewed by the bishop or branch president of the congregation and asked to declare whether he or she has paid a full tithe to the church, which is defined as ten per cent of the member's income. Tithing settlement meetings are generally held in November or December.\n\nDuring the meeting, each member is given a copy of his or her donation record for the year, and asked to confirm it is correct.\n\nEach church member is required to choose one of the following tithing statuses as defined by the church:\n\n\nChurch members are invited to make a payment to correct any deficiency before the records are closed for year-end.\n\nIf a church member declines to participate or attend a tithing settlement meeting, the bishop or branch president is required to choose a tithing status on their behalf.\n\nPayment of tithing is a core doctrine of the church for all members, including children. Church members must declare themselves to be \"full-tithe payers\" in order to receive a temple recommend and attend one of the church's temples. However, that is done in a separate meeting from the tithing settlement.\n\nThe LDS Church uses the honor system and personal accountability of the individual tithe payer. It is not the church's general position to question the honesty of tithe payers. The church predominantly accepts the status declared by the tithe payer through counsel and consideration of the leaders. It is up to the individual tithe payer to determine and in turn declare to their leaders whether he or she feels they are a full tithe payer or not.\n"}
{"id": "1166665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166665", "title": "Work ethic", "text": "Work ethic\n\nWork ethic is a belief that hard work and diligence have a moral benefit and an inherent ability, virtue or value to strengthen character and individual abilities. It is a set of values centered on importance of work and manifested by determination or desire to work hard. Social ingrainment of this value is considered to enhance character through hard work that is respective to an individual's field of work.\n\nProponents of a strong work ethic consider it to be vital for achieving goals, that it gives strength to their orientation and the right mindset. A work ethic is a set of moral principles a person uses in their job. People who possess a strong work ethic embody certain principles that guide their work behavior, leading them to produce high-quality work consistently and the output motivates them to stay on track. A good work ethic fuels an individual's needs and goals, it is related to the initiative by a person for the objectives. It is considered as a source of self respect, satisfaction, and fulfillment.\n\nFactors are:\n\nA negative work ethic is a behavior of a single individual or a group that has led to a systematic lack of productivity, reliability, accountability and a growing sphere of unprofessional/unhealthy relationships (e.g., power politics, lack of social skills, etc.).\n\nAssumptions about good work ethic is drawn out in philosophical writings of Goldman, they are:\n\n\nIn the 1970s a good work ethic was considered as a lifestyle to meet unmet or unsatisfied wants by people.\n\nSteven Malanga refers to \"what was once understood as the work ethic—not just hard work but also a set of accompanying virtues, whose crucial role in the development and sustaining of free markets too few now recall\".\n\nMax Weber quotes the ethical writings of Benjamin Franklin:\nRemember, that \"time is money\". He that can earn ten shillings a day by his labor, and goes abroad, or sits idle, one half of that day, though he spends but sixpence during his diversion or idleness, ought not to reckon \"that\" the only expense; he has really spent, or rather thrown away, five shillings besides.\n\nRemember, that money is the \"prolific, generating nature\". Money can beget money, and its offspring can beget more, and so on. Five shillings turned is six, turned again is seven and threepence, and so on, till it becomes a hundred pounds. The more there is of it, the more it produces every turning, so that the profits rise quicker and quicker. He that kills a breeding sow, destroys all her offspring to the thousandth generation. He that murders a crown, destroys all that it might have produced, even scores of pounds.\nWeber notes that this is not a philosophy of mere greed, but a statement laden with moral language. It is in effect an ethical response to the natural desire for hedonic reward, a statement of the value of delayed gratification to achieve self-actualization. Franklin claims that Bible readings revealed to him the usefulness of virtue. Indeed, this reflects the then christian search for ethic for living and the struggle to make a living.\n\nExperimental studies have shown that people with fair work ethic are able to tolerate tedious jobs with equitable monetary rewards and benefits, they are highly critical, have a tendency for workaholism and a negative relation with leisure activity concepts. They valued meritocracy and egalitarianism.\n\nIn the 1940s work ethic was considered very important, nonconformist ideals were dealt autocratically. Suppression of humor in the workplace was one of them. It is recorded that at the Ford Company a worker John Gallo was fired for being \"caught in the act of smiling\".\n\nCountercultural groups and communities have challenged these values in recent decades.\n\nThe French Leftist philosopher André Gorz (1923–2007) wrote:\n\n\"The work ethic has become obsolete. It is no longer true that producing more means working more, or that producing more will lead to a better way of life.\nThe connection between more and better has been broken; our needs for many products and services are already more than adequately met, and many of our as-yet-unsatisfied needs will be met not by producing more, but by producing differently, producing other things, or even producing less. This is especially true as regards our needs for air, water, space, silence, beauty, time and human contact.\n\nNeither is it true any longer that the more each individual works, the better off everyone will be. In a post-industrial society, not everyone \"has\" to work hard in order to survive, though may be forced to anyway due to the economic system. The present crisis has stimulated technological change of an unprecedented scale and speed: 'the micro-chip revolution'. The object and indeed the effect of this revolution has been to make rapidly increasing savings in labour, in the industrial, administrative and service sectors. Increasing production is secured in these sectors by decreasing amounts of labour. As a result, the social process of production no longer needs everyone to work in it on a full-time basis. The work ethic ceases to be viable in such a situation and workbased society is thrown into crisis.\"\nAnti-capitalists believe that the concept of \"hard work\" is meant by capitalists to delude the working class into becoming loyal servants to the elite, and that working hard, in itself, is not automatically an honorable thing, but only a means to creating more wealth for the people at the top of the economic pyramid. In the Soviet Union, the regime portrayed work ethic as an ideal to strive for.\n\nThe recession is a contributing factor that holds back work ethic, because the generation that inherits economic decline lives in an economy that isn’t ready to receive them. Without work there to do, the ethic that is attached to it fails to generate distinctive value. The negative work ethic and power structures that doesn't value or credit work done or unethically attribute work done as a service or with higher moral ideals have dissolved the ethic presented in the society and turned the focus onto self-centered perks and individualism. Further, urbanization and an emphasis on large-scale businesses has led to eliminating avenues for learning vital concepts about work. Millennials in a research identified what made them unique was consumerist trends like technology use, music/pop culture, liberal/tolerant beliefs, clothes, and individualistic ones like greater intelligence than work, they were not able to distinguish the concept in the traditional understandings of work ethic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4578661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4578661", "title": "Yazdânism", "text": "Yazdânism\n\nYazdânism, or the Cult of Angels, is a pre-Islamic, native religion of the Kurds. The term was introduced by Kurdish scholar Mehrdad Izady to represent what he considers the \"original\" religion of the Kurds.\n\nAccording to Izady, Yazdânism is now continued in the denominations of Yazidism, Yarsanism, and Ishik Alevism. The three traditions subsumed under the term Yazdânism are primarily practiced in relatively isolated communities; from Khurasan to Anatolia, and parts of western Iran.\n\nThe concept of Yazdânism has found a wide perception both within and beyond Kurdish nationalist discourses, but has been disputed by other recognized scholars of Iranian religions. Well established, however, are the \"striking\" and \"unmistakable\" similarities between the Yazidis and the Yaresan or \"Ahl-e Haqq\", some of which can be traced back to elements of an ancient faith that was probably dominant among Western Iranians and likened to practices of pre-Zoroastrian Mithraic religion. Mehrdad Izady defines the Yazdanism as an ancient Hurrian religion and states that Mitanni could have introduced some of the Vedic tradition that appears to be manifest in Yazdanism.\n\nMehrdad Izady derived the term from a Zoroastrian concept of Holy beings (), often translated as \"angels\" or \"archangels\". While he refers to \"Yazdânism\" as possibly being the real name of this old religion and the sources of modern designation, Yezidi, he has published evidence of this assertion only in his 1992 book, \"Kurds: A Concise Handbook.\"\n\nOne of the few ancient sources that mention the \"Sipâsîâns\", considered synonymous with the Yazdanis is the \"Dabestân-e Madâheb\", written between 1645 and 1658.\n\nIn Yazdani theologies, an absolute transcendental God (\"Hâk\" or \"Haq\") encompasses the whole universe. He binds together the cosmos with his essence, and manifests as the \"heft sirr\" (the \"Heptad\", \"Seven Mysteries\", \"Seven Angels\"), who sustain universal life and can incarnate in persons, \"bâbâ\" (\"Gates\" or \"Avatar\"). These seven emanations are comparable to the seven \"Anunnaki\" aspects of \"Anu\" of ancient Mesopotamian theology, and they include \"Melek Taus\" (the \"Peacock Angel\" or \"King\"), who is the same as the ancient god Dumuzi son of Enki and the main deity in Yazidi theology, and \"Shaykh Shams al-Din\", \"the sun of the faith\", who is Mithra.\n\nThese religions continue the theology of Mesopotamian religions under a Zoroastrian influence, and expressed through an Arabic and Persianate Sufi lexicon.\n\nYazdânism teaches the cyclic nature of the world with reincarnation of the deity and of people being a common feature, traversing incarnations of the soul of a man into human form or an animal or even a plant. These religions also teach that there are seven cycles of the universe, six of which have already happened, while the seventh one is yet to unfold. In each cycle, there is a set of six reincarnated persons (one female, five male) who will herald the new cycle and preside over it (the seventh one in the set being the ever-lasting, the ever-present Almighty).\n\nThe reincarnation of the deity could be in one of the three forms: a \"reflection incarnation\", a \"guest incarnation\", or the highest form, an \"embodiment incarnation\". Jesus, Ali, and the three leaders of the three primary branches of Yazdânism are all embodiment incarnations, meaning Godhead actually born in a human body.\n\nThe principal feature of Yazdânism is the belief in seven benevolent divine beings that defend the world from an equal number of malign entities. While this concept exists in its purest form in Yârsânism and Yazidism, it evolves into \"seven saints/spiritual persons\", which are called \"Yedi Ulu Ozan\" in Alevism. Another important feature of these religions is a doctrine of reincarnation. The belief in reincarnation has been documented among the Nusayri \"(Shamsi Alawites)\" as well.\n\nThe Yazidis believe in a single God as creator of the world, which he has placed under the care of these seven “holy beings” or angels, whose “chief” (archangel) is Melek Taus, the “Peacock Angel”. The Peacock Angel, as world-ruler, causes both good and bad to befall individuals, and this ambivalent character is reflected in myths of his own temporary fall from God’s favor, before his remorseful tears extinguished the fires of his hellish prison and he was reconciled with God.\n\nMelek Taus is sometimes identified by Muslims and Christians with Shaitan (Satan). Yazidis, however, strongly dispute this, considering him to be the leader of the archangels, not a fallen angel. According to Christine Allison:\n\nBecause of this connection to the Sufi Iblis tradition, some followers of Christianity and Islam equate the Peacock Angel with their own unredeemed evil spirit Satan, which has incited centuries of persecution of the Yazidis as ‘devil worshippers’. Persecution of Yazidis has continued in their home communities within the borders of modern Iraq, under both Saddam Hussein and fundamentalist Sunni Muslim revolutionaries. In August 2014 the Yazidis were targeted by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, or ISIL, in its campaign to ‘purify’ Iraq and neighboring countries of non-Islamic influences.\n\nYazdânis do not maintain any of the requisite five pillars of Islam; nor do they have mosques or frequent them. The Quran to them is as respectable as is the Bible, and yet each denomination of this religion has its own scriptures that the adherents hold in a higher esteem than any one of the former or others.\n\nFrom the Yarsani (sometimes also called Ahl-e Haqq or Yâresân) point of view, the universe is composed of two distinct yet interrelated worlds: the internal (\"batini\") and the external (\"zahiri\"), each having its own order and rules. Although humans are only aware of the outer world, their lives are governed according to the rules of the inner world. Among other important pillars of their belief system are that the Divine Essence has successive manifestations in human form (\"mazhariyyat\", derived from \"zahir\") and the belief in transmigration of the soul (or \"dunaduni\" in Kurdish). The Yarsani do not observe Muslim rites and rituals.\n\nThe term \"Haqq\" (as in Ahl-e Haqq) is often misrepresented and misinterpreted as the Arabic term for \"Truth\". Instead, its true meaning is clearly explained by Nur Ali Elahi (died 1974) – as being \"distinct from the Arabic term and in fact, should be written as \"Hâq\" (\"Hâq-i wâqi'\") instead of \"Haqq\" and should be understood to be different in meaning, connotation, and essence.\"\n\nYazidis, who have much in common with the followers of Yarsanism, state that the world created by God was at first a \"pearl\". It remained in this very small and enclosed state for some time (often a magic number such as forty or forty thousand years) before being remade in its current state. During this period the \"Heptad\" were called into existence, God made a covenant with them and entrusted the world to them. Besides Tawûsê Melek, members of the Heptad (the Seven), who were called into existence by God at the beginning of all things, include Sheikh ‘Adī ibn Musāfir al-Umawī \"(Şêx Adî)\", his companion Şêx Hasan and a group known as the \"Four Mysteries\": Shamsadin, Fakhradin, Sajadin and Naserdin.\n\nThe distribution of these three beliefs follows geographic boundaries:\n\nIzady proposes the term as denoting a belief system which \"predates Islam by millennia\" which is in its character \"Aryan\" rather than \"Semitic\".\n\nInstead of suggesting that the Muslim Kurds are Yazdanis, Izady suggests that Yazdani Kurds are not Muslim, and identify themselves as such only to avoid harm and discrimination.\n\nThe view on non-Islamic identity of the \"Yazdanis\" is shared by Mohammad Mokri, the well-known Kurdish folklorist and historian, who states this religion to be \"less Islamic than Baha'ism\", which had emerged from Bábism as \"a new non-Islamic religion\".\n\nThe concept of ‘Yazdanism’ as a distinct religion has been disputed by a number of scholars. Richard Foltz considers Yazdânism, or the “Cult of Angels”, as Izady’s “invented religion”, which according to Foltz “owes more to contemporary Kurdish national sentiment than to actual religious history.”\n\nIranian anthropologist Ziba Mir-Hosseini states:\n\n"}
{"id": "892211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=892211", "title": "Zen in the Art of Archery", "text": "Zen in the Art of Archery\n\nZen in the Art of Archery (Zen in der Kunst des Bogenschießens) is a book by German philosophy professor Eugen Herrigel, published in 1948, about his experiences studying Kyūdō, a form of Japanese archery, when he lived in Japan in the 1920s. It is credited with introducing Zen to Western audiences in the late 1940s and 1950s.\n\nHerrigel (1884–1955) was a German professor of philosophy, with a special interest in mysticism. From 1924 to 1929 he taught philosophy in Japan, and studied Kyūdō (the art of the Japanese bow) under a master named Awa Kenzô. Awa taught kyūdō in a way that was regarded by some as a mystical religion, called \"Daishadokyo\". Daishadokyo was an approach to kyūdō that placed great emphasis on the spiritual aspect and differed from much of the mainstream practice at the time. In 1936, Herrigel wrote a 20-page essay about his experiences, and then in 1948 expanded the essay into a short book. The book was translated into English in 1953 and Japanese in 1955.\n\nThe book sets forth theories about motor learning. Herrigel has an accepting spirit towards and about unconscious control of outer activity Westerners heretofore considered wholly to be under conscious-waking control and direction. For example, a central idea in the book is how through years of practice, a physical activity becomes effortless both mentally and physically, as if our habit body executes complex and difficult movements without conscious control from the mind.\n\nHerrigel describes Zen in archery as follows: <br>\n\nHerrigel's book may have inspired Tim Gallwey's 1974 book \"The Inner Game of Tennis\". Both Herrigel and Gallwey approach sport and life as opportunities for learning inner cooperation. \"Zen in the Art of Archery\" also relates to the \"inner child\" idea in humanistic psychology. Later literature either discusses balancing the \"inner game\" and the \"outer game\" or counseling approaches to accessing, communicating and collaborating with the inner child beyond sports.\n\nThe title \"Zen in the Art of Archery\" most likely inspired the titles of many other works, either directly or indirectly. Foremost among these is Robert Pirsig's 1974 book \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\". More than 200 works have been created with similar titles, including Ray Bradbury's 1990 book \"Zen in the Art of Writing\", as well as \"Zen and the Art of Poker\", \"Zen and the Art of Knitting\", \"\", and so on.\n\nJ. D. Salinger's fictional character Seymour Glass applied one aspect of Zen archery—aiming by deliberately not taking aim—to playing the children's game of marbles.\n\nThe wider theme of many of these works is that a regular routine can have a spiritual dimension.\n\n"}
