{"id": "180160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180160", "title": "Abortion in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Abortion in the Republic of Ireland\n\nAbortion in Ireland is currently illegal unless it occurs as the result of a medical intervention performed to save the life of the woman. Reform is now underway, after a referendum was passed in 2018, replacing the Eighth Amendment, which had given equal value to the life of the unborn foetus to that of its mother, with a clause permitting the Oireachtas (parliament) to legislate for the termination of pregnancies. The constitutional amendment was signed into law on 18 September 2018, but abortion will continue to be governed by the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 until that Act is repealed by the Oireachtas. The government has pledged to introduce the Health (Regulation of Termination of Pregnancy) Bill 2018 which would allow abortion during the first twelve weeks of pregnancy, and later in cases where the pregnant person's life or health is at risk, or in the cases of a fatal foetal abnormality.\n\nAbortion had been prohibited in Ireland by the Offences against the Person Act 1861. The Eighth Amendment was added to the Constitution by referendum in 1983 after concerns that laws prohibiting abortion could be found to be unconstitutional based on a right to privacy. In 1992, the Supreme Court held in the X Case that a thirteen-year-old girl who had become pregnant as a result of rape could be permitted to obtain an abortion in the state because there was a risk to her life from suicide. There were unsuccessful referendums in 1992 and in 2002 that aimed to further amend the Constitution so as to preclude this part of the decision in future cases.\n\nIrish abortion law received worldwide attention on the death of Savita Halappanavar in 2012, who had been denied an abortion while suffering a septic miscarriage, contrary to the law of the time which permitted abortion in cases where the mother's health was at risk. This increased calls to repeal the Eighth Amendment. The constitutional and legislative provisions were discussed at a Citizens' Assembly in 2016–17, and at an Oireachtas committee in 2017, both of which recommended substantial reform, which lead to the referendum passed on 25 May 2018.\n\nOn the 18 September, after a delay arising from various legal challenges taken since the referendum in May, President Michael D. Higgins signed the referendum bill into law, thereby repealing the Eighth Amendment.\n\nThese current provisions arise from the Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland, passed by referendum on 25 May 2018. For the previous constitutional provisions from 1983 to 2018, see the historical sections below.\n\nThe law which currently governs abortion in Ireland is the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013. Sections 7 and 8 provide for legal termination of pregnancies in cases of a risk of loss of life from physical illness, whereas section 9 provides for legal termination of pregnancies in cases of a risk of loss of life from suicide. Sections 58 and 59 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861 were repealed, and effectively superseded by the offence defined in section 22:\nInformation on the availability of abortion outside Ireland is governed by the Regulation of Information (Services Outside the State For Termination of Pregnancies) Act, 1995. This was referred to the Supreme Court by President Mary Robinson and found to be constitutional.\n\nEvery year, the government publishes how many pregnancies were terminated under the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013, which came into force on 1 January 2014:\nBetween 2010 and 2012, 1,642 women ordered abortion pills over the internet from Women on Web, and had an abortion at home, in Ireland. The pills are illegal in Ireland, and Customs occasionally seizes shipments.\n\nEstimates as to the number of Irish women seeking abortions in Britain vary. Since the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment (Travel) in 1992, the right to travel for an abortion has had constitutional protection. In 2016, 3,265 Irish women were recorded as having had abortions in Great Britain. In some cases, women travelling do so with the assistance of the Abortion Support Network\n\nIn 1980 Marian Finucane won the Prix Italia for a documentary on abortion, she interviewed a woman who was about to have an abortion, had travelled with her to England, been with her in the hospital and talked to her afterwards. In 2001, an estimated 7,000 women travelled abroad to obtain an abortion. Statistics showed that 4,149 Irish women had abortions in Britain in 2011. A study was carried out and had shown that in 2014 a total of 5,521 women gave Irish addresses to English and Welsh clinics that provided abortion services. In recent years, some Irish women have had abortions in the Netherlands.\n\nThe issue of travelling to the UK for an abortion was relevant for many Irish abortion cases, such as the X Case in 1992, C Case in 1997 and the case of Miss D in 2007, as well as in the cases of fatal foetal abnormalities. In response to the UNHRC decision in \"Mellet v Ireland\" (2016), the government gave Amanda Mellet €30,000 compensation, partially for being forced to travel.\n\nUnder sections 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861, as amended by the Statute Law Revision Act 1892 and Statute Law Revision (No. 2) Act 1893, procuring a miscarriage was a criminal offence subject to penal servitude for life.\nThese provisions enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom remained in force in Irish law until they were repealed by the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013.\n\nFears were expressed by politicians in 1929 of an increase in criminal abortions and infanticide following the passing of the Criminal Law Amendment Act which prohibited all appliances and substances for contraception; no exceptions whatsoever were made. Over 100 Irish women were dying annually from unsafe backstreet abortions in the 1930s.\n\nThe English case of \"R v. Bourne\" (1938), which allowed the distress of a pregnant girl as a defence in a prosecution against a doctor for the termination of a pregnancy, led to an increase in abortion in Britain, and thereafter, of Irish women travelling to obtain abortions. There were no prosecutions in Ireland for illegal abortions between 1938 and 1942 but as a result of travel restrictions imposed during the war years, there were 25 cases prosecuted between 1942 and 1946. During the late 1930s and early 1940s, up to 400 terminations (both legal and illegal) were performed daily in England and Wales, and given the high emigration rates it is likely that there was widespread knowledge of the possibility of obtaining backstreet abortions in England by Irish people. The Bell Magazine in 1941 said that some young women from well-off backgrounds were \"hustled off, normally to London, Paris, Biarritz, comes back without the baby and nobody is any the wiser\" After the war the level of prosecutions decreased though this only relates to abortions that went wrong or were found out. Those found guilty were dealt with severely by the courts, receiving long sentences of penal servitude with one chemist with an extensive abortion practice in Merrion Square, Dublin in 1944 receiving a 15-year sentence that was reduced to 7 on appeal. The Garda Commissioner's first annual report on crime published in 1947 made reference to the number of abortions that were performed illegally. In the 1950s novels, autobiographies and works of non fiction (including medical texts) that promoted or even described abortion were banned. There were extremely few prosecutions for performing illegal abortion between 1952 and 1963. but one of Ireland's best-known abortion providers, Mamie Cadden, was sentenced to death by hanging in 1957 – this was later commuted to life imprisonment – when one of her patients died.\n\nThe Abortion Act 1967 in Great Britain made access to the treatment easier for Irish women and the instance of infanticide, which was prevalent, became to decline sharply. In 1974, Noël Browne became the first member of the Oireachtas to propose the provision of therapeutic abortion services during a contribution to a Seanad debate. In 1981, future President of Ireland, Mary McAleese, chaired a meeting at Liberty Hall that advocated a woman's right to choose. She later claimed that she misunderstood the nature of the meeting. McAleese had previously said that \"I would see the failure to provide abortion as a human rights issue\", but also that she did not feel \"that the way to cope with it is through introducing abortion legislation\" into Ireland. A number of controversies have arisen following deaths of pregnant women who were prevented from receiving medical care because of their pregnancy, such as Sheila Hodgers in 1983. Sheila Hodgers was a woman from Dundalk, County Louth, who, in 1983, died of multiple cancers two days after giving birth to her third child (who immediately died at birth). It is alleged that she was denied treatments for her cancer while pregnant because the Catholic ethos of the hospital did not wish to harm the foetus.\n\nThe Pro-Life Amendment Campaign was founded in 1981 campaign against a judicial ruling in Ireland that would allow abortion. Prior to the 1981 general election, PLAC lobbied the major Irish political parties – Fianna Fáil, Fine Gael and the Labour Party – to urge the introduction of a Bill to allow the amendment to the constitution to prevent the Supreme Court interpreting the constitution as giving a right to abortion. The leaders of the three parties – respectively Charles Haughey, Garret FitzGerald and Frank Cluskey – agreed although there was little consultation with any of their parties' ordinary members. All three parties were in government over the following eighteen months but it was only in late 1982, just before the collapse of a Fianna Fáil minority government, that a proposed wording for the amendment was proposed. After the election, on the advice of Attorney General Peter Sutherland, the new government of Fine Gael and Labour proposed an alternative wording but there was not a majority in the Dáil for it, and the wording proposed by Fianna Fáil was accepted. This inserted the following subsection into the Constitution:\nThe Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland was put to a referendum on 7 September 1983 and was approved with 66.9% of the vote.\n\nProtests have been taking place in Ireland to remove the eight amendment. The March for Choice, now in its sixth year, is the first major rally since the Government set an indicative timescale of early summer 2018 for a referendum on the section of the state's constitution that ensures tight legal restrictions on terminations.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Society for the Protection of Unborn Children challenged distribution of information relating to abortion services in Britain under the provisions of Article 40.3.3º. In proceedings which they initiated, which were later converted into the name of the Attorney General, \"AG (SPUC) v Open Door Counselling Ltd. and Dublin Wellwoman Centre Ltd.\" (1988), the High Court granted an injunction restraining two counseling agencies from assisting women to travel abroad to obtain abortions or informing them of the methods of communications with such clinics. \"SPUC v Grogan\" and \"SPUC v Coogan\" targeted students' unions, seeking to prohibit them from distributing information on abortion available in the UK.\n\nIn response to the success of this litigation, and prompted by the controversy on the X Case, a referendum was held in November 1992 on the Fourteenth Amendment, which passed. The Fourteenth Amendment specified that the prohibition of abortion would not limit the right to distribute information about abortion services in foreign countries.\n\nIn 1992, in the X Case, the Attorney General sought an injunction to prevent a thirteen-year-old girl who had been the victim of rape from obtaining an abortion in England, which was granted in the High Court by Justice Declan Costello. On appeal to the Supreme Court, this decision was reversed, on the grounds that the girl was suicidal, and that therefore, it was permissible to intervene to save her life.\n\nIn November 1992, the Twelfth Amendment of the Constitution Bill was proposed, which would have removed a risk of self-destruction as grounds for an abortion, but was defeated in a referendum.\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment was passed in November 1992 in response to the injunction sought by the Attorney General, ensuring that the protection of the unborn in the constitution could not be used to prohibit travel from the state to another state for an abortion.\n\nThe Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments together added the following paragraphs to Article 40.3.3º:\nIn August 1997 a 13-year-old girl was raped, and became pregnant. She was suicidal due to the pregnancy, and the High Court ruled in the C Case that the Eastern Health Board could arrange for her to travel to Britain for an abortion against the wishes of her parents.\n\nThe woman at the centre of the case has occasionally spoken about her experiences, but has not revealed her identity.\n\nAs part of constitutional review, in 1999 the Irish government produced a 179-page green paper summarising the then current Irish abortion law and held an All-party Oireactas Committee on the Constitution. It held oral submissions in 2000, producing a \"Fifth Progress Report: Abortion\" in November 2000. Following this, a referendum was held on the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the Constitution Bill, which would have introduced legislation into the constitution to permit abortion in cases of a threat to the life of a woman, but not in cases where there was a risk of suicide. This proposal was narrowly defeated (50.4% – 49.6%).\n\nIn 2005, two Irish women and a Lithuanian woman who had previously travelled to England for abortion brought suit in the European Court of Human Rights asserting that restrictive and unclear Irish laws violate several provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. The case, \"A, B and C v Ireland\", was heard before the Grand Chamber of the Court on 9 December 2009 and was decided on 16 December 2010. In that case the Court ruled that the first two women's rights were not violated by being forced to travel because Irish law was \"legitimately trying to protect public morals\". ECHR also ruled that Irish law struck a fair balance between the women's rights to respect of their private lives and the rights of the unborn, although it found that Ireland had violated the Convention by failing to provide an accessible and effective procedure by which a woman can have established whether she qualifies for a legal abortion under current Irish law. This pertained to the case of the woman who identified as C. Since she did not receive accurate information about the risks of pregnancy associated with her prognosis, she believed that she did not qualify for legal abortion in Ireland and was forced to travel to England for the procedure. In this case, the court relied on doctrine that would deny the direct challenge to Ireland's criminal law and this led to the reasoning that abortion is a moral issue. With the complex, lengthy and sensitive debate surrounding the issue, the Court made its ruling that state authorities were better suited than an international judge to balance the competing views and rights in abortion regulation. The Court's decision is binding on Ireland and all of the member states of the Council of Europe.\n\nA government-appointed Expert Group on Abortion released its findings on 13 November 2012, the day before news of the death of Savita Halappanavar broke, saying that Ireland was obliged to implement the court's decision and recommending legislative and statutory reform. This led to the enactment of the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act the following year.\n\nThe death of Savita Halappanavar led to protests in 2012 calling for changes to Ireland's abortion laws and a highly public investigation by the Health Service Executive. After a miscarriage had been diagnosed, she was denied an abortion because the foetus's heart was still beating. She developed sepsis and died. The HSE enquiry found that her death was a result of inadequate assessment and monitoring and a failure to adhere to established clinical guidelines, and made several recommendations, including legislative & constitutional change.\n\nThe current law governing abortion was proposed by Minister for Health James Reilly on behalf of the Fine Gael–Labour Party government. It passed the Dáil by 127 votes to 31. Fine Gael, the Labour Party and Sinn Féin had a party whip in favour of the legislation, and among those who opposed it were Fine Gael TDs Lucinda Creighton, Terence Flanagan, Peter Mathews, Billy Timmins, and Brian Walsh, and Sinn Féin TD Peadar Tóibín. Brian Walsh and Peadar Tóibín were both returned to the party whip within the same Dáil term.\n\nPrior to this law, there was no standard to what conditions and situations would be considered to qualify for legal abortion in Ireland. This bill included a provision that allows abortion only if there is a real and substantial risk to life, specifically pertaining to the life and health of the mother. Within this provision, the women seeking to qualify for legal abortion must be examined by an obstetrician and a relevant specialist to decide if she does qualify. In a case of a mother feeling suicidal or threatening to commit suicide, she must be examined by three specialists and the agreement of their decision must be required for her to obtain a legal abortion. If certification for a legal abortion is refused, a woman may appeal the decision and have her situation and conditions reviewed again.\n\nPresident Michael D. Higgins convened the Council of State to consider the constitutionality of the bill and a possible reference under Article 26 of the Constitution to the Supreme Court. The President decided against such a reference and signed the legislation into law on 30 July 2013.\n\nIn 2014, Ms Y, a young, suicidal refugee woman was denied an abortion under the act. She went on hunger strike. The baby was eventually delivered by Caesarean section.\n\nIn 2002, a woman pregnant with a foetus with fatal foetal abnormalities travelled to the UK for a termination. Her letter in \"The Irish Times\" was credited with playing a part in the defeat of the Twenty-fifth Amendment referendum. She later took a case against Ireland in the European Court of Human Rights, \"D v Ireland\", which was ruled inadmissible. The State argued that the Constitution of Ireland might allow termination in cases of fatal foetal abnormalities. After the death of Savita Halappanavar, she gave up anonymity and spoke out.\n\nIn May 2007 a 17-year-old girl, known as \"Miss D\", who was pregnant with a foetus suffering from anencephaly (the absence of a major portion of the brain, skull, and scalp; blind, deaf, unconscious, and unable to feel pain, a disorder which is universally fatal), was prevented from travelling to Britain by the Health Service Executive. The High Court ruled on 9 May 2007 that she could not lawfully be prevented from travelling even though she was a ward of the state.\n\nAmanda Mellet became pregnant in 2011; however, the foetus was suffering from Edwards syndrome, a fatal condition. She was unable to have an abortion in Ireland and had to travel to the UK. In 2016, she took a case to the United Nations Human Rights Committee, and in \"Mellet v Ireland\" it found that Ireland's abortion law violated the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and called for the law's reform. The Irish government paid her €30,000 in compensation.\n\nIn a case in 2010, the government of Ireland denied Siobhán Whelan an abortion despite being diagnosed with fatal foetal syndrome and was forced to travel from Ireland to the UK to terminate her pregnancy. In June 2017, the United Nations Human Rights Committee ruled that Ireland's abortion law violated Whelan's human rights along with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, subjecting Whelan to a cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment, and called for legalisation of and access to safe abortions. The ruling was praised by the Center for Reproductive Rights.\n\nOn 25 May 2018, the Irish people voted by 66.4% to 33.6% in a referendum to repeal the Eighth Amendment. They approved the Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Constitution Bill 2018 to delete the current provisions of Article 40.3.3º and replace it with the following:\nThe government also outlined policies which would govern legislation to replace the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013.\n\nA Citizens' Assembly had been established by the government in 2016 to consider a number of issues. After five meetings on the Eighth Amendment, it voted to amend the constitution to allow the Oireachtas to legislate for abortion. It also voted on the provisions it would support in this legislation. The Report of the Assembly was sent to the Joint Oireachtas Committee on the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution. The Committee delivered its report in December 2017, and the report was debated in both Houses of the Oireachtas in January 2018.\n\n39 of the 40 constituencies voted in favour of repealing the Eight Amendment. The national result was: \nA draft of the Health (Regulation of Termination of Pregnancy) Bill 2018 was published by the Department of Health in July 2018.\n\nSeveral polls have been taken on the subject:\n\n"}
{"id": "4111049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4111049", "title": "Agricultural University of Athens", "text": "Agricultural University of Athens\n\nThe Agricultural University of Athens (AUA; ) is the third oldest university in Greece. Since 1920, it has made contributions to Greek agricultural and economic development, by conducting basic and applied research in the agricultural sciences.\n\nThe university is situated in the neighborhood of Votanikos, on a 25-hectare green campus that straddles both sides of the historic Iera Odos (the Sacred Way of antiquity), close to the Acropolis, at the heart of the ancient Olive Grove.\n\nThe University today comprises two Schools and six Departments, offering five-year undergraduate programmes as well as a variety of postgraduate programmes.\n\nThe university's main research focus is agronutrition, environmental ecology and agricultural economics.\n\nThe university is located on the alluvial plain of the Kifisos river. It is bordered by Kavalas avenue and Spyrou Patsi Street. To its east lies the ancient cemetery of Kerameikos and to the west was the location of Plato's olive, whose remains are exhibited inside the main building of the University. The site is split in two by the Iera Odos (Sacred Way) which connects Athens and Eleusis.\n\nIts buildings comprise a great number of auditoriums and laboratories, a library, computer rooms, agricultural facilities (arboretum, vineyard, experimental fields, flower garden, greenhouses, cowshed, sheep pen, chicken coop, dairy installations, and aquaculture tanks), museums, student center, indoor gym, and sports fields.\n\nThe plain where the university is located was created by the perioding flooding of the Kifisos river. In antiquity the district of Elaionas (olive grove in Greek) where the university is located was considered among the healthiest of Athens. The largest part of the site where the university is located was appropriated by Hadji Ali Haseki, an 18th-century Ottoman ruler of Athens and used as his personal farm. From his time survives one building on the University which is one of the very few of that time that still stands in Athens, though not in its original condition.\n\nAfter the 1821 revolution the plot was confiscated along with the rest of Turkish property of Greece and became the Ruf National Farm. In 1888, after the national benefactor Triantifillides donated money to create three post-secondary schools of Agriculture, one of them was created on the site. By some this is considered as the founding of the university. Others though consider 1920 as the founding date, when the \" Athens College of Agriculture \" was founded by law submitted to parliament by Eleftherios Venizelos. No matter which date is used it is still the third oldest university of Greece, after the University of Athens and the National Technical University of Athens.\n\nThe college was the first agricultural research facility in Greece. As its Greek name shows (Ανωτάτη Γεωπονική Σχολή Αθηνών) the college was originally modeled after the French Grandes Ecoles. First rector was Spyridon Hasiotis who is considered the father of agricultural science in Greece. In the early years the college lacked financial resources and teaching facilities. To help overcome this problem a special fund was set up in 1928. The main income of the university was from the sale of its produce, while the buildings of the Triantafillideios School of Agriculture were inadequate for the needs of a college. At that time the university was under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture which guaranteed employment to all of its graduates, thus making the university very attractive to people of poor background. Students and faculty were involved in politics, something that the Metaxas dictatorship did not like and thus moved the college to Thessaloniki in 1937, to become part of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.\n\nIn Thessaloniki the situation was tougher, since all the work that had been done to improve the site was now useless, due to relocation. After repeated pleads the Occupation Government allowed the return of the college to Athens, but did not abolish the Agriculture Faculty of the Aristotle University which thus exists to this day, as the Faculty of Geotechnical Sciences of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.\n\nUpon return the students and the faculty found the installations in poor condition. Also half the material was left in Thessaloniki to help continue the faculty there. At least though during the occupation, a time when over 300,000 Greeks died of hunger the fields of the university provided food for the students and faculty. The great famine of World War II gave a sense of urgency to the university's founding mission: to help Greece obtain self-sufficiency in food. To improve the level of education a fifth year was added in 1948 as specialization. 1948 is considered the beginning of the post-war era with the foundation of the central building.\n\nUsing money from the Marshall Plan the central building was completed in 1952. In 1960 specializations were extended to the fourth year. The 1967–1974 dictatorship brought turmoil to the College, cultimnating in the suicide of lab technician Theophilos Frangopoulos in 1969, of cyanide poisoning.\n\nGreece's entry to the European Economic Community allowed European funds to flow thus allowing and expansion both in facilities and departments. Thus in 1984 for the first time Departments were formed. In 1990 the college was renamed as the Agricultural University of Athens.\n\nIn 2016 the external evaluation committee gave Agricultural University of Athens a \"Positive evaluation\".\n\nAn external evaluation of all academic departments in Greek universities was conducted by the Hellenic Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agency (HQA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39750553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39750553", "title": "Angolans in France", "text": "Angolans in France\n\nAngolans in France consist of migrants from Angola and their descendants living and working in France.\n\nAngolans are one of the latest African community in France, and also one of the only non-francophone African community. However, there are a lot of Angolan people not only in Paris and its suburbs, but also in the rest of France. In 2013, a Confederation of Angolans in France was created.\n"}
{"id": "26641736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26641736", "title": "Attie", "text": "Attie\n\nThe Attie are an Akan people who live predominantly in Ivory Coast.\n"}
{"id": "37554626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37554626", "title": "Australian Men's Shed Association", "text": "Australian Men's Shed Association\n\nThe Australian Men’s Shed Association (AMSA) is a non-profit organization that was set up in April 2007 to aid men's sheds across Australia. The purpose of the Association was to offer a central source for all Men’s Sheds in the country, due to the number of duplicate men's sheds appearing.\n\nThe AMSA represents 900 men's sheds, acting as a central support organization to over 125,000 Australian men.\n\nThe concept was originally discussed in 2005, before it was formally founded in 2007. The initial aim was to provide central support to the men's sheds across Australia. This would be done through distributing free information, while aiming to develop men's sheds, and their effectiveness. These aims resulted in a common goal, which resulted in minimising the setup and running costs associated with men's sheds.\n\nIn 2010 the Federal Government of Australia launched the Men’s Health Policy, which identified and recognized the role the AMSA play in men's health throughout Australia. This identification led to them receiving a grant of AU$3 million to help support their foundation. Later that year the organization also became registered as a tax-deductible recipient.\n\nThe success of AMSA is now a model, which is being replicated by numerous non-profit organisations worldwide, including Japan, Europe and North America.\n\nThe AMSA provide a variety of services aimed at members, such as risk management advice and insurance. The organization also aims to source funding and resources that benefit men's sheds. Every two years the AMSA holds a National Conference, aimed at sharing knowledge and experiences. In 2015 it held its 6th Annual Conference, where different aims and achievements were discussed. The conference in 2015 attracted over 400 delegates and had a number of key speakers involved in health and men's sheds.\n\nThe AMSA also provides an online forum for members, along with aids to apply for development grants.\n"}
{"id": "39756844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39756844", "title": "Bissau-Guineans in France", "text": "Bissau-Guineans in France\n\nBissau-Guineans in France consist of migrants from Bissau-Guinea and their descendants living and working in France.\n\nThe first Bissau-Guineans immigrants came in the early 20th century. There were Manjacks navigators who works for French companies. They came via Senegal to ports like Marseille, Bordeaux, Rouen, Le Havre or Dunkerque. There was family reunification with wives of the navigators who came in France in the 1950s and 1960s. There was also an other wave of Bissau-Guinean immigration, mostly composed of economic migrants.\n\nMost of the Bissau-Guineans in France are Manjack people, from the north-west of Bissau-Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "26476868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26476868", "title": "Botijo", "text": "Botijo\n\nA botijo, also called \"búcaro\" in Spanish, is a traditional Spanish porous clay container designed to contain water. The botijo has the property that once filled, it cools the water that it contains, acting as an evaporative cooler.\n\nThe botijo has a wide belly and one or more mouths where it is filled and one or more outputs called \"pitón\" or \"pitorro\" to drink from. The botijo is a typical element of Spanish culture and may vary in shape, color and material.\n\nThe operating principle of the botijo is as follows: the stored water is filtered through the pores of the clay and in contact with the outside dry environment (characteristic of Mediterranean climate), it evaporates, producing a cooling (2.219 kilojoules per gram of evaporated water). The key for cooling it, is by the evaporation of bleed water, as the water evaporates, it extracts thermal energy from the water stored inside the jug.\n\nPorron - another distinctively Hispanic vessel\n"}
{"id": "12237861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12237861", "title": "Cambodian Red Cross", "text": "Cambodian Red Cross\n\nThe Cambodian Red Cross (CRC) (, \"Kakkrobat Krahom\") is the largest humanitarian organization in Cambodia. Established on 18 February 1955, it is officially recognized by the Royal Government as the primary auxiliary to the public authorities in humanitarian services. It was recognized by the International Committee on October 7, 1960, and admitted as a Member of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies on October 8, 1960.\n\nOn October 7, 1960, under recognition by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the organization was admitted as a Member of the International Federation of Red Cross Red Crescent Societies (the Federation) the following day. However, during the Khmer Rouge Regime (1975–1979), all Red Cross activities in Cambodia were suspended due to government policies at the time and the CRC's seat in the General Assembly of the Federation was abandoned. As a result of the Khmer Rouge, between 1979 and 1994, the CRC lost its national unity as each of the four factions in Cambodia set up their own Society within their respective areas of control. However, the NS was reunified in 1994 and the CRC was reinstated to the Federation.\n\nSince the reunification in 1994, the Cambodian Red Cross has undergone many important processes of organizational development and changes with Three major General Assemblies to assess the organizations' function and structure. The 1st Term was held by Princess Norodom Marie Ranariddh, President of the CRC from 1994 - 1998. The 2nd and 3rd Terms were held by Madam President Bun Rany Hun Sen, President of the CRC from 1998–2002 and re-elected in August 2002. With Her Majesty Queen Norodom Monineath Sihanouk residing as Honorary President, since 1994. \n\nWhilst there are significant constraints in human and financial resources, the CRC has attempted to raise the level of integration and consolidate its framework not only domestically but transnationally with the International Federation, ICRC, cooperation partners and NS's in the region and throughout the world. CRC has successfully implemented a three-year development plan (1998–2000); a second development plan - a five-year period was developed in 2001 and revised in 2002.\n\n2003, marked the development of a new strategy, known as Strategy 2003 - 2010. As part of this the process, CRC achieved adoption of two national laws. Two Royal Decrees were signed by the King of Cambodia on 6 May 2002 -one giving the official recognition of the Cambodian Red Cross and the other on the use and protection of the Red Cross / Red Crescent emblems in the country. \n\nThe Strategy 2003 - 2010 fundamentally illustrates how the Cambodian Red Cross (CRC) can contribute to poverty reduction of the most vulnerable areas in Cambodia by becoming a leading humanitarian organisation.\n\nThe objectives and actions detailed in this Strategy have been designed to help the CRC move in the same strategic direction as the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement as a whole.\n\nThe Cambodian Red Cross is headed by the president, elected by the General Assembly for a term of four years. \n\nOn 11 November 2001, at a ceremony held in Geneva, Madame Phlech Phiroun, Former President of the Cambodian Red Cross and Roger Durand, Founder and president of the Henry Dunant Society and former Vice-president of the Geneva Red Cross received the Henry Dunant Medal for their services to humanity. \n\nOn 18 February 2004, the Cambodian Red Cross attended the National Conference on Mine Action Achievements at the Council of Ministers in Phnom Penh.\n\nToday, the CRC delivers a plethora of programs including health care, and distributing information on the Movement's Fundamental Principles and Humanitarian Values and Disaster Response and Preparedness activities throughout Cambodia. The organization has a comprehensive network of 24 branches throughout all provinces in the Kingdom, with some 126, 318 members; and a network of more than 5,700 Red Cross Volunteers (RCV) and 5,300 Red Cross Youth (RCY) all uniting to deliver services and implement programs to meet the needs in contemporary Cambodian society.\n\n"}
{"id": "26190515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26190515", "title": "Canadian House of Commons Standing Committee on Environment and Sustainable Development", "text": "Canadian House of Commons Standing Committee on Environment and Sustainable Development\n\nThe Canadian House of Commons Standing Committee on Environment and Sustainable Development (ENVI) is a standing committee in the House of Commons of Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31934576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31934576", "title": "Catacao language", "text": "Catacao language\n\nCatacao (Katakao) is an extinct language of Peru.\n"}
{"id": "59063246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59063246", "title": "Celebrity privacy", "text": "Celebrity privacy\n\nCelebrity privacy is the right of people who gain high fame and recognition on mass media, usually entertainment stars, sports athletes or political leaders, to hide the information they are not willing to disclose to the public. The privacy of celebrities includes many different aspects, such as the celebrities' address, family members and romantic relationships. Different from the privacy of the general public, celebrity privacy is usually challenged by the press and the fans: paparazzi chase celebrities' cars to take private photos and sell them to entertainment magazines for profits; some fans break into celebrity’s house or stalk, kidnap or even assassinate them. To prevent celebrity privacy, some national and state governments set up privacy laws particularly for protecting celebrities. However, the legal impact of these celebrity privacy laws has currently been undetermined, since the curb for celebrity privacy intrusion often counteracts the legal principle of “free press” in many countries.\nScholars have debated how much or what type of privacy celebrities and their friends or family can or should expect. Commonly posed arguments center upon topics such as the idea of celebrity privacy as controlled publicity, the intrusion of paparazzi or fans, and what types of privacy should be granted to and expected by children of celebrities.\n\nIn order to keep high public exposure and show positive professional images, celebrities and their teams often intentionally manage or control how their private lives are presented to the public. According to attorney Jamie Nordhaus, the boundaries of privacy and publicity for celebrities can become blurred, as they most are always watched by fans, paparazzi, and other potential stalkers. Some celebrities remain conscious of maintaining a public persona when they are in the public eye as opposed to a personal one in private and will negotiate with the press to release staged private life photos. Jens Hoffman has argued that celebrity attempts to sacrifice their privacy for publicity may result in a loss of legal protections, as celebrities claiming that an invasion of privacy by the press could be seen as utilizing media in order to achieve or maintain fame. The latter argument was used in a court decision on a stolen sex tape that featured American actress Pamela Anderson Lee and her then-boyfriend Bret Michaels. Lee had sued Internet Entertainment Group (IEG) and Paramount for broadcasting a story in 1998, that contained excerpts from the tape, however the court considered her as voluntarily sacrificing her privacy in order to publicize herself. Scholar Seong Hong has stated that based on the court decision, Lee’s privacy right was not protected because of her celebrity identity.\n\nThe term “paparazzi”’ is used to define the freelance photographers who take celebrities’ exclusive pictures and sell them to the press for financial purposes. Techniques used by the paparazzi include stalking celebrities and their children, taking photos of them with or without consent, and chasing celebrities’ cars. Some see these techniques as causing turbulence to the lives of the celebrities and those with them and that some aggressive techniques may result in the injury or death of the celebrity. The death of Diana, Princess of Wales, has been cited as an example of the risks of paparazzi techniques. Besides, scholar Elizabeth Hindman claims that the sale of exaggerated content without context to sensationalize particular moments has decreased credibility in the news industry.\n\nAccording to Ray Murray's research, some paparazzi will “draw an ethical line” by abiding by specific rules and in a series of paparazzi interviews, most of the participants claimed that they would not break the law, and some attested that they would not take any photo of celebrity children without consent. Scholar Andrew Mendelson argues that paparazzi are valuable in that they reveal potential mismatches between the public image and the reality of celebrities who possess great power in contemporary society, which legitimizes the paparazzi's invasion of celebrity privacy as a form of watchdog journalism. Besides, Anne Jerslev and Mette Mendelson have noted that the paparazzi have become integrated into the mainstream culture and their photographs are distributed widely and quickly by consumers.\n\nThe “dual entertainment path model” suggested by scholar Kineta Hung shows that fans and non-fans adopt different ways to engage with their favorite celebrities For non-fans, they usually pay attention to celebrities and the released news to escape from boredom. In contrast, Hung theorizes that fans put a much higher emotional investment in order to create an individual “bond” with celebrities, which gives them pleasure and a sense of satisfaction. According to Hung, fans may typically try to become physically and mentally closer to their idols by attending concerts, movies, and fan-meetings. In extreme circumstances, fans may become obsessed with celebrities and invade their privacy by stalking them. Scholar Jens Hoffman has argued that this is a result of a pathological fixation, as fans exhibiting this can believe that there is a special connection between their favorite celebrities and themselves, even though such a relationship does not exist in reality. Once unsatisfied, this fixation can lead fans to invade celebrity privacy out of disappointment and resentment.\n\nIn South Korean culture, a fan who is overly interested in the private lives of K-POP idols or other public figure is called a \"Sasaeng fan\", which means \"private life fan\" in English. According to a study by William Patrick and Samantha Xiang, Sasaeng fans are typically teenage girls between 13-22 years old, and their common stalking behaviors include installing hidden cameras in idols’ home, chasing idols’ car at high speed, and stealing personal things from idols’ room. Sasaeng fans are viewed negatively in South Korea due to actions such as poisoning members of a disliked K-POP idol or using bodily fluids to write letters to the object of their affections.\n\nThe public interest in the private lives of celebrities has prompted paparazzi to catch specific and trivial details of celebrities’ daily lives, which includes the lives of their children. Paparazzi photographs of these children are frequently posted in magazines, sometimes with friends or family, and often portray the celebrity and children's fame and lifestyles as high-quality and luxurious. These images can be either authorized or unauthorized. Seong Hong claims that due to the circulation of celebrity children photos, the media leads the public to establish a pseudo-relationship with celebrity children and imagine them as “our children”. This public imagination combined with the potentially constant presence of paparazzi has been seen as having the potential to threaten the privacy of celebrity children. \n\nAccording to Lidia Maropo and Ana Jorge, celebrity children usually appear on newspapers and magazines together with their families: moments like celebrity children playing the park, having a picnic with the whole families or just hanging out with their parents are posted on media, which reflects the importance of children in the family and advocates for a more harmonious family relationship. At the same time, the celebrity children photos also suggest a pleasant experience and a sense of satisfaction of being a parent. The circulation of celebrity children images attracts the public to focus on the family relationship and makes them realize the happiness brought by children and the responsibility of parents.\n\nThe exposure of celebrity children to the public can result in the invasion of their privacy rights. For example, the old son of aviator Charles A. Lindbergh, who became a national celebrity after he created records for flying from the U.S to France in 1927, was kidnapped and murdered in 1932. After this tragedy, Jon, Lindbergh’s second son, was chased continuously by paparazzi’s cars. To protect Jon, Lindbergh finally decided not to raise legal appealing but to move outside of the U.S with his family. Additionally, some celebrities will send photos of their children to media in order to prevent paparazzi from continuing disrupting their private lives: American film celebrities David Arquette and Courteney Cox released the photo of their daughter Coco to the press, which prevented them from being chased by paparazzi.\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) was permitted in 1989 as human rights started to gain more attention globally. This treaty deals with the most fundamental issue between children and the media, such as free expression, non-discrimination and respect. Article 16, in particular, set that children have the right to protect themselves when encountering illegal interference of privacy or attacks on reputation. All the UN countries, except U.S and Somalia, approved and sighed this treaty.\n\nSeong Hong argues that in the United States, the celebrity children privacy has been rarely protected by U.S law currently. The main reason is that the legal protection of celebrity children is too narrow and it might counteract with the First Amendment, which emphasizes “free press” to encourage democratic voices. However, as the California Anti-Paparazzi Act was introduced, some celebrities suggested the state government to put more focus on celebrity children: actress Halle Berry hoped that the law could restrict paparazzi from approaching celebrity children since her children were afraid of going to school and trips due to the stalking of paparazzi. Besides, scholar Joshua Azriel suggests that there should be a full ban on the photos of celebrity children with stronger punishment.\n\nIn Brazil, the Child and Adolescent Statute (ECA in Portuguese acronym) both directly and indirectly addressed the relationship between children and media. ECA grants the fundamental civil and human rights to children, including free expression and the right of image, idea and identity, etc. Article 18, in particular, emphasizes that everyone has the responsibility to protect the dignity of children and to save them from any violent or terrifying situation. Besides, Article 74-80 provides children with legal protection to harmful public media, such as violent television show.\n\nIn Portugal, the Law for Protection of Children and Youth at Risk (LPCJP in Portuguese acronym) protects children from media that brings risky elements, such as violence or inhumanity. Besides, The Young Offenders’ Law prohibits media from identifying youngsters from 12-16 who commit illegal actions.\n\nIn October 1997, Princess Diana died from a car accident in France which was suspected to be caused by seven paparazzi. Although the judge clarified later that the drunk driver rather than paparazzi caused the accident, California government was aware of the danger brought by paparazzi and thus quickly set the first anti-paparazzi law.\n\nIn 1998, California set the “invasion of privacy statute”, which prohibited the use of digital devices to take photos of celebrities on private occasions. However, this statute is criticized by opponents who believe it might inhibit the freedom of the press to gather news. Also, the language used was considered too broad and vague. Some media attorneys described the statute as a “Pandora’s box” that brought a large number of severe problems.\n\nThe First Amendment of the “invasion of privacy statute” was passed in 2005, which regulated that the profits from photos taken during altercations between celebrities and photographers will be forfeited. In 2009, another new law A.B 524 stated that up to $50,000 penalties would be charged from the first publishers of the photos taken in the ways that violate the privacy statute. This law aimed to stop the paparazzi who take private photos of celebrities for profit-gaining reasons. However, scholar Christina Locke and Kara Murrhee claims that the law is not effective because the first publishers of celebrity photos can usually make over a million dollars. Furthermore, A.B 524 seemly contradicts the Supreme Court again for prohibiting the press to gain news legally.\n\nSince California noticed that confrontations between celebrities and paparazzi still happened and were even exacerbated, in January 2010, another anti-paparazzi law A.B 2479 was passed to address two main problems: paparazzi’s car-chasing which often leads to accidents and their behaviors that prevent the celebrities from moving freely. A.B 2479 further established both financial and criminal penalties for people who result in reckless driving because of the intention to gain photos or recording of other people for commercial purpose—the fine will be between $145 to $1,000, and the term of imprisonment will be between 5-90 days. If any child is inside the car during the reckless driving, the fine will be up to $5,000 and the term of imprisonment will be up to one year. Also, to curb the paparazzi from encompassing the celebrities and thus prevent them from moving freely, the law counts this behavior as false imprisonment that allows for extra damages.\n\nThe supporters of A.B 2479 were The City of Los Angeles, Screen Actors Guild and Paparazzi Reform Initiative. They argued that the series of aggressive behaviors of paparazzi, such as parking their cars to block the celebrities’ cars or crowding the celebrities in public spaces like airports and entrances to public facilities have seriously disrupted celebrities’ private lives. On the contrary, California Newspaper Publishers Association (CNPA) opposed the bill since it undermines the activity of the press to gather news freely. Also, CNPA argued that the penalties for reckless driving targeted to journalists are unfair. According to Christina Locke and Kara Murrhee, even though compared to previous bills, A.B 2479 has made significant changes regarding focuses, the conflict between the California anti-paparazzi law and the First Amendment of Constitution still exists.\n\nKeith Willis claims that in the U.S legal system, the conflict between the right to privacy and the right to free expression exists. Many state bills, such as California’s anti-paparazzi law, are set to protect celebrity privacy, while the First Amendment of Constitution ensures the press’s freedom to express and gather information. In history, the balance of these two forces has been uncertain—sometimes the celebrities’ privacy requests outweigh the freedoms of press and expression, while other times the First Amendment is prioritized over celebrities who claim to be disrupted by the open press.\n\nTo prevent the royal family from being disrupted by the media, Britain set laws to restrict press reporting earlier than many other countries. Also, institutions like the European Convention on Human Rights and the British Law Commission have been submitting proposals to protect individual privacy. After the death of Princess Diana in 1997, the Press Complaints Commission, a self-regulating organization of British media, proposed a series of regulations to prevent similar accidents from happening. The proposals include banning paparazzi photos taken through the continuous pursuit, expanding the definition of private property, strengthening the protection for celebrity children, and prevention of media collective harassment. \n\nAccording to Jamie Nordhaus, although the French government set strong laws to prevent paparazzi from invading celebrity privacy, these laws counteract with each other and thus are not efficient enough to protect celebrities and their children. The government prohibits paparazzi from publishing any photo that is not consented by the subjects but allows them to publish photos taken at public places. Besides, the high profits resulted from publishing exclusive celebrity photos in France greatly exceed the $32,000 fine, which encourages French paparazzi to take risks. \n\nSimilar to the U.S, Seong Hung argues that celebrities and their children in New Zealand are rarely protected by privacy laws for now. In 2004, Mr Hosking, a well-known television celebrity in New Zealand, sued the Pacific Magazine for taking and publishing the photos of his children, but the Court of Appeal ruled against Mr. Hosking by stating that the photographs did not invade the privacy right because they were taken in public spaces.\n\nThe right of publicity, also called personality rights, aims to control and protect the unauthorized commercial use of people’s identity, such as name, photos, or likeness. Based on the right of privacy, the right of publicity is relatively new in the U.S—it was first recognized in the 1953 \"Haelan Laboratories v. Topps Chewing Gum\" case, and was later analyzed by Supreme Court in the 1977 \"Zacchini v. Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Co\".case. The right of publicity is significant because with the advent of a new media age when “everyone can be famous on the Internet for 15 minutes”, the right of publicity becomes increasingly relevant and vital protection. This right is closely related to celebrity privacy because most of the time, it is used to protect celebrities from paparazzi or individuals who take the celebrities’ names and images for commercial use. Currently no federal law in the U.S protects celebrities’ right of publicity, however states like California have established statutes and common law to protect their celebrity citizens. Keith Willis argues that the publicity right controversies often happen on celebrity product endorsement issues.\nAccording to Ellen Whitehorn, Canada government protects the right of publicity, but the extent of the scope is still uncertain.The Courts protect individuals’ gaining from self-marketing, including name, images and personality, when it is violated. Similar to the U.S, the right of publicity laws mostly concentrate on different provinces: for example, Ontario has specific common laws which prevent the personality rights from being violated commercially. However, while the right of publicity in the U.S originates from the right to privacy, the personality right in Canada stems from unfair competition law.\n\nEllen Whitehorn claims that The United Kingdom currently does not have a specific legal statute to protect the right of publicity because, in history, U.K has been inclined to offer more protection for free speech and thus less focus on celebrity and their publicity rights. However, the U.K government still protects the right of publicity through other torts, such as some claims in the British Human Rights Act, violation of copyright, or misuse of private information. \n\nCopyright is also closely related to celebrity privacy. In the U.S, the Congress enacts copyright law based on Article 1(8)8 of the Constitution, which suggest that authors have the exclusive right to their work in a limited period. The original work protected by copyright laws includes literacy work, artistic work, musical work, and dramatic work etc. Since the producers of the original work are artists, musicians, or authors who are usually well-known, they are likely to be involved in copyright lawsuits, which could affect their rights of privacy. Besides, scholar O'Neill Eaton suggests that sometimes the press fights for the copyright of paparazzi photos to make most of the profits from exclusive celebrity images. In 2006, the famous U.S celebrity gossip blogger Perez Hilton was sued by paparazzi agency X17 because he posted photos taken by X17 onto his own website without permission. Perez has denied violated copyright laws, stating that his work falls under fair use, as he uses the material for humor and satire. The Court final decision was that Perez’s use of the paparazzi photos violated the copyright laws, as Perez gained huge profits from publishing the paparazzi photos.\n"}
{"id": "41861885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41861885", "title": "Corruption in Tanzania", "text": "Corruption in Tanzania\n\nBoth grand and petty corruption are serious problems in Tanzania yet various comprehensive laws are in place to prevent corruption. It is largely due to a weak internal control and low or non-compliance with anti-corruption regulations within different government agencies. For instance, public procurement, taxation, and customs service are areas that are prone to corruption. Foreign companies have identified that corruption within those sectors poses potential obstacles for doing business in Tanzania as bribery is often demanded. \n\nIt is also believed that the existing large informal sector, amount 48.1% of GDP, is associated with cumbersome business registration process which have created opportunities for corruption.\n\n"}
{"id": "295665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295665", "title": "Crime in Estonia", "text": "Crime in Estonia\n\nCrime in Estonia is combated by the Estonian police and other agencies.\n\nIn 2011, Estonia had a murder rate of 5.0 per 100,000 population. There were a total of 65 murders in Estonia in 2011.\n\nAn average of 9.4 people per 100,000 per year were killed in Estonia between 1999 and 2001.\n\nOrganized crime is characterized by a loose alliance of mobster groups, principally of Russian origins, with a wide range of different rackets: prostitution, motor vehicle theft, drug trafficking, and previously also \"providing\" workers to building contracts in Finland, where the criminal organizations were confiscating a share of workers' wages. Although small, the mafia is hierarchical and well-organized, which has enabled its survival.\n\nThe Common Fund () is a traditional umbrella organisation of criminal groups, a trade union of sorts which settles conflicts and establishes the boundaries of the spheres of interest of the various groups. In 2003, the Common Fund had been dominated for about 15 years by Nikolai Tarankov of Ukrainian or Belarusian heritage and KGB training. However, Tarankov was killed by his godson in 2016. The Common Fund pays for lawyers of caught members, purchases and delivers packages to imprisoned members and covers other expenses. Such \"insurance\" increases the loyalty of the members.\n\nIn 2005, the Estonian Central Criminal Police noticed a decline in revenues of the Common Fund, leading to capture of several high-ranking members. The decline has been attributed to changes in Estonian society, particularly those experienced in the lead-up to accession to European Union.\n\nIn 2010s, the police have been successful in disrupting the operations of the Obtshak by arresting high-ranking members. One of the kingpins, Assar Paulus, was convicted in 2016 for founding a criminal organization and funding drug trafficking. The gang got its income through illegal debt collection and extortion, and some members committed tax fraud, drug crimes and violent crimes. In general, violent crime and protection rackets have become a thing of the past: it is no longer necessary for ordinary businessmen to pay protection money. Instead, the mafia is more involved in drug trade and white-collar crime such as tax fraud. Also, many former mafia \"businessmen\" have moved to legitimate business.\n\nAarni Neuvonen is the largest ever perpetrator of employment fraud in Estonia. He is known for having collected money with promise of overseas jobs from thousands of people and disappearing after having caused over (estimated) 10 million of EEK of damages in 1993. Avo Viiol was convicted for embezzlement in 2003. The neologism \"viioldama\", has become a slang veb meaning \"to embezzle\".\n\nThe illegal drug trade's turnover in Estonia according to 2008 estimates might be several billion EEK. According to the opinion of senior superintendent of narcotic crimes department at North Police Prefecture only 1% of the whole amount of drugs on the market is confiscated in Estonia. In 2011, the EUROPOL Trafficking Unit designated the Baltic states and Kaliningrad as a transit hub for drug trafficking in and out of Russia.\n\nIn 2008, Transparency International has measured the Corruption Perception Index for Estonia to be at 6.6 (CI 6.2–6.9), ranking it 27th in a list of 180 countries. In comparison, neighbouring Sweden was ranked 1st–3rd with a CPI at 9.3 (CI 9.2–9.4), Finland 5th–6th with a CPI at 9.0 (CI 8.4–9.4), Russia 147th–150th with a CPI at 2.1 (CI 1.9–2.5), and Latvia 52nd with a CPI at 5.0 (CI 4.8–5.2). Higher index means perception of more transparency and less corruption. As of 2014 the Corruption Perception Index for Estonia is 69, placing it at the 26th position (in the context of EU above France and below Austria).\n\nA total of 326 corruption-related offenses were identified and registered in 2008, considerably below the number registered in 2006, when 511 instances of corruption were found, but 17% higher than in 2007, and slightly higher than in 2003. These accounted for just 0.6% of all criminal offenses.\n\nForeign investors do not consider corruption as a main problem of doing business in Estonia. In general, the public sector is transparent and has good compliance with anti-corruption initiatives and demonstrates adherence to ethical principles on the cultural level. \n\nIn February 2012, the government passed an anti-corruption act in order to further improve transparency in the public sector, such as asset disclosure by government officials. Public trust in the electoral system is high. However, the government still faces challenges in combating corruption. Local-level government corruption still remains a problem, and public awareness of corruption-prevention needs to be raised.\n\nAccording to Interpol in 2002, since the fall of the Soviet Union the largest group of prostitutes working in Finland has consisted of trafficked women from Estonia and Russia.\n\nThe 2012 \"Trafficking in Persons Report\" issued by the US Trafficking state department repeats the claims of previous years that Estonia is \"source, transit, and destination\" for adult human trafficking, and that Estonia fails to comply with their minimum standards for eliminating trafficking. It now adds that the government \"is making significant efforts to do so\". Trafficking is now treated as a serious matter by the Estonian government, which enacted a law in 2012 criminalizing trafficking in persons with penalties of up to 15 years imprisonment. The Estonian government identified 56 victims in 2011; 39 women, 17 men, and no children; 37 were sex trafficking victims, 19 were labor trafficking.\n\nThe report also states that the Estonian government funds ($US42k) an active anti-trafficking hotline, and that it has increased funding ($US158k) for anti-trafficking victim care and that it maintains a \"strong and supportive\" relationship with organisations active in anti-trafficking. To this end the government has published a victim identification guide in Estonian and Russian, for use by law enforcement officials. The government has distributed anti-trafficking material at tourism and job fairs. Consular officials have visited schools to discuss dangers of trafficking. The government has also co-ordinated efforts in trafficking-reduction/elimination with other countries and has taken various other anti-trafficking measures.\n\nAccording to statistics published in Britain in 2008 relating to the period 1991–2001, the number of crimes increased by 84% from 1991 to 2001. The number of discovered drug-related crimes increased by 21 between 1997 and 2001. Overall, crime has fallen precipitously between 1995 and 2010, by close to 70%. \n\nIn December 2006, it was estimated that residents of Estonia were responsible for 140 robberies of jewellery and watch stores in Finland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Italy, Spain, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Denmark, and Sweden during the three years prior. The value of the lost property is estimated to be 25 million Euros. In 2012, the \"Le gang des Estoniens\" was tried in France for robbing several jeweller's shops in Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41957971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41957971", "title": "Dekh Le", "text": "Dekh Le\n\nDekh Le is a viral video dealing with the subject of men ogling women in India. It was produced by film studies students at Mumbai-based Whistling Woods International Institute of Film, Fashion & Media and released on 16 December 2013, the first anniversary of the 2012 Delhi gang rape. It garnered one million hits in its first week on YouTube.\n\nOn 16 December 2012, a horrific gang-rape of an Indian girl took place in a moving bus in New Delhi, the national capital of India. The event was followed by various protests in which masses took to the streets in various Indian states, demanding the government to form stricter laws regarding women safety. The media industry voiced its concern in its own way. One such way was the women-empowerment ad campaign 'Dekh Le', launched one year after the incident.\n\nThe 90 second video shows four different scenarios where women are made to feel uneasy and uncomfortable by male gaze in everyday life situations. It shows women at a red light, in a bus, on a train and at a cafe, being subjected to staring male eyes. In order to retaliate, these women show mirrors to the men; on seeing how bad they look while staring at a girl, realize their mistake and are forced to take their eyes off. The video concludes with the four empowered women going about their business, free from prying eyes.\nThe jingle was sung by famous Indian singer Sona Mohapatra and composed by Ram Sampath. The hook line \"Dekh Le Tu Dekhta Hua Kaisa Dikhta Hai\" translates as \"Look how you look while you are looking at me.\"\n\nThe ad found a lot of media coverage, both on online news websites and blogs, as well as offline newspapers and magazines.\nRheana Murray from New York Daily News described the video: \"Video from Indian arts group shows leering men what they look like.\"\nDeepa Kunapuli from Upworthy wrote \"It's meant to start a conversation about what empowerment for women looks like.\"\nEmma Cueto from Bustle writes, \"The video is great, both in its very realistic – and uncomfortable – portrayal of men staring at young women, and also in the message it is trying to send. Hopefully it has a big impact, and not just in India.\"\nAditi Shome Ray from DNA described the ad: \"This ad on women empowerment will make men cast their eyes down in shame.\"\nIBNLive described the ad as \" The commercial sends out a strong message to show how ridiculous men look like while ogling at women.\"\nAs of 1 August 2015, the video stands at more than five and a half million views on YouTube and has also hit the theatre screens of India.\n"}
{"id": "17148036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17148036", "title": "Demetress Bell", "text": "Demetress Bell\n\nDemetress Carte Bell (born May 3, 1984) is a former American football offensive tackle. After playing college football for Northwestern State, he was drafted by the Buffalo Bills in the seventh round of the 2008 NFL Draft. He played for the Bills for four seasons. He is the son of former basketball star Karl Malone.\n\nBell, who spelled his first name \"Demetrius\" until 2012, when he learned his name was actually spelled \"Demetress\", was born in 1984 to Gloria Bell, then aged 13, of Summerfield, Louisiana. According to Gloria Bell, Demetress' father is Karl Malone, a former star player in the National Basketball Association (NBA) and a fellow native of Summerfield. Malone and Demetress Bell have reportedly spoken on only one occasion.\n\nAs a young teenager, Bell played more softball than he did Malone's sport of basketball. He did not play organized football at all during that time. Eventually, during high school, he took up basketball and played well enough to receive a scholarship to Northwestern State University, where he played in 88 games over the course of the 2003–04, 2004–05, and 2006–07 seasons. Bell was one of only four NCAA athletes to play both basketball and football in Division I in 2007. After the 2006–07 season, he decided to give up basketball to concentrate on his development in football.\n\nBell's high school had not fielded a football team, so prior to his attending Northwestern State, he had never played organized football. In the fall of 2005, he red-shirted the basketball season and began playing for the school's football team. He was initially placed in the position of defensive end. The following year, injuries struck the team's offensive line, and he was moved to the left tackle position. He earned second-team All-Louisiana honors that season.\n\nBell made a bigger name for himself in his senior season of 2007, having focused solely on football. Remaining on the offensive line, he was named an All-Louisiana and an All-Southland Conference first-teamer. He also became an Associated Press All-American.\n\nBell graduated from Northwestern State in 2008.\n\nBell was drafted by the Buffalo Bills in the seventh round of the 2008 NFL Draft. The Bills were encouraged by his raw skills, but saw him as a longer-term project, given his inexperience in having played organized football for only three seasons at that point. However, the team chose to place him on their active roster, rather than assigning him to their practice squad, where he could potentially have been signed away by another team. Consistent with their view of him as a work in progress, Bell was not activated for play in any of the Bills' regular season games in 2008.\n\nIn 2009, citing the quality of Bell's performance in the Bills' off-season and pre-season training camps that year, then-Bills head coach Dick Jauron installed Bell as the team's starting left tackle for the 2009 regular season. After earning mixed reviews over the first half of the campaign, including an extremely high number of penalties against him, Bell's year came to a disappointing conclusion when he suffered what would prove to be a season-ending knee injury in a Week 10 game against the Tennessee Titans.\n\nOn April 4, 2012, the Philadelphia Eagles signed Bell to a contract that could be worth up to $34.5 million over five years. On February 6, 2013, Bell was released from his contract.\n\nOn July 21, 2013, Bell was signed by the Dallas Cowboys. He was released by the Cowboys on August 31, 2013.\n\nKarl Malone has never offered public confirmation that he is the father of Demetress Bell. However, laboratory blood tests prepared for the Bell family's 1996 paternity lawsuit against Malone reportedly pointed to an over 99 percent probability that Bell's father was either Malone or a brother of Malone. Malone initially refused to respond to the lawsuit, but eventually reached an out-of-court settlement with the Bell family over the issue. The Bells received a single lump sum payment of a confidential amount, with no on-going child support for Demetress. In speaking later about the settlement, Malone's attorney asserted that it had not included an official court determination of paternity, and noted that Malone \"had a lot of brothers\".\n\nAlthough Malone was 20 years old at the time that the 13-year-old Gloria Bell was impregnated, she said that her family chose not to pursue criminal charges against Malone over the relationship. According to Bell, with Malone being a neighbor — Summerfield's population is only a few hundred — her family did not wish to see him jailed, especially since he would then be unable to provide any support for Demetress at all.\n\nIn 2008, \"The Buffalo News\" published a story about Demetress Bell that included the claim that he didn't know who his father was until after he graduated from high school. However, in a 1998 article in \"The Salt Lake Tribune\", when Bell was 14 years old, his mother spoke of his shying away from anything to do with Malone because his feelings were hurt by Malone's refusal to acknowledge him.\n\nAccording to Bell, he has spoken to Malone on one occasion, when Bell was 18 years old. Bell reported that Malone told him that he would have to make his way on his own, as it was too late for the two men to have a father-son relationship.\n\nIn 1989, Malone was also sued over the paternity of twins Daryl and Cheryl Ford, also of Summerfield, Louisiana. Similarly to the case with Bell, the Ford twins' case was ultimately settled out of court and without Malone offering confirmation that he was the twins' father. In 1998, after knowledge of the two paternity suits became public, Malone did acknowledge his paternity of the Ford twins, and he has since maintained an active relationship with them despite the ongoing estrangement between Bell and Malone. Bell has reported that he is very close to the Ford twins, who acknowledge him as their brother.\n\n"}
{"id": "56064002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56064002", "title": "Diatribe", "text": "Diatribe\n\nA diatribe (from the Greek \"διατριβή\"), also known less formally as rant, is a lengthy oration, though often reduced to writing, made in criticism of someone or something, often employing humor, sarcasm, and appeals to emotion. \n\nThe terms, diatribe and rant (and to a lesser extent tirade and harangue) have at times been subtly distinguished, but in modern discourse are often used interchangeably. A diatribe or rant is not a formal classification of argument, and religious author Alistair Stewart-Sykes notes that \"[t]he form of the diatribe is difficult precisely to ascertain\". It has been proposed that the terms, diatribe, tirade, harangue, and rant, \"are similar, but offer different shades of meaning\":\n\nIt has been suggested that a rant is merely one kind of diatribe, with one explanation stating that \"[a] rant can be defined loosely as an emotionally charged narrative or diatribe often expressing a strong distaste or anger on the one hand, or a declamatory, often pompous, assertion on the other\". A number of notable works have been described as diatribes, such as the \"Diatribes\" of Greek philosopher Bion of Borysthenes, in which he satirized the foolishness of people; the \"Diatribes\" of Teles of Megara written circa 235 BC, which present the basis of the philosophy of Cynicism; and the \"Diatribes\", or \"Discourses\", of Epictetus, circulated by Arrian circa 108 AD, introducing aspects of Stoicism. An examination of the use of diatribe by the 4th century BC Greek philosopher Euripides states:\n\nThe opponent assumed to be argued against in a diatribe is \"a fictitious individual introduced by the speaker merely as a part of the rhetorical machinery of his discourse\", who states the position of the opponent before providing \"indication of the untenability of that position by means of illustration, rhetorical question, proverb, argumentum e contrario, etc., and in conclusion a statement of the speaker's own view\". Although a diatribe or rant is not inherently humorous, rants have become a staple of modern comedy, performed as \"over-the-top ramblings with a single point of view on a wide variety of subjects\".\n\nStewart-Sykes proposes that there is a difference between pagan diatribes, which he suggests are directed against a present individual, and Christian diatribes, which he suggests are directed against a hypothetical other person, but more fully intended to persuade the reader or listener. A noted historical example of a religious diatribe can be found in Paul's \"Epistle to the Romans\". With respect to that usage, a diatribe is described as an oration in which the speaker seeks to persuade an audience by debating an imaginary opponent, \"typically using second person singular\". The speaker \"raises hypothetical questions and responds to them or states false conclusions and goes on to refute them\".\n"}
{"id": "10289455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10289455", "title": "Displace Me", "text": "Displace Me\n\nDisplace Me was a nationwide event hosted by the nonprofit Invisible Children Inc. on April 28, 2007. In 15 cities across the United States, 68,000 individuals came together to raise awareness about the situation of the displacement camps in northern Uganda.\n\nThe event had three main goals:\n\nDisplace Me was created to be an experiential event. To encourage the simulation, participants were asked to bring the following:\n\nWith 15 locations across the United States, participants had to travel long distances to reach their “camps.” The traveling aspect was reflective of the displaced individuals in northern Uganda who were given 48 hours to leave their homes and relocate to displaced camps throughout the region. Once Displace Me participants arrived at their camps, they built “huts” out of cardboard boxes. Throughout the remainder of the night, participants were rationed food and water and heard, via video, personal testimonies from those living in the IDP camps in the North.\n\nOther aspects of the event included a speech at every city from an individual personally connected with the conflict. Speakers included the Gulu District Chairman Norbert Mao, Invisible Children’s Ugandan Country Director Jolly Okot, and the Senior Adviser to the International Crisis Group John Prendergast, among others. First Lady Laura Bush also directly addressed the Displace Me participants via a prerecorded speech shown on video. Participants concluded the night by writing letters to their government leaders and the President of Uganda, calling friends and family who were not aware of the conflict, as well as holding 21 minutes of silence for the 21 years of war.\n\nDuring the night participants also helped film a video that was to be shown to members of the United States Senate. Participants in each city held up giant banners with their city's name and one to two phrases from the below statement.\n\n"}
{"id": "55426137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55426137", "title": "Field Naturalists Society of South Australia", "text": "Field Naturalists Society of South Australia\n\nThe Field Naturalists Society of South Australia, Incorporated was founded in 1883 as a section of the Royal Society, and whose aims were to further the cause of the natural sciences in the colony. It was incorporated in 1959 and is still active. Membership is open to the public on application.\n\nIn 1880 Samuel Way, president of the Adelaide Philosophical Society, which had just recently been granted permission to use the title \"Royal Society of South Australia\", lamented the lack of a local equivalent of the recently formed Field Naturalists Club of Victoria for keen amateurs to further the cause of natural sciences.\n\nThe Association was formed as the \"Field Naturalists' Section of the Royal Society of South Australia\" (note apostrophe) on 14 November 1883, rules adopted and officers elected, many or most being members of the Royal Society: Chairman: Professor Ralph Tate; Vice-chairmen: Dr. H. T. Whittell, and Rev. (later Professor) Walter Howchin FGS.; Hon. Secretary: W. E. Pickells. The foundation committee consisted of Dr. W. L. Cleland, Dr. W. Haacke, J. G. O. Tepper, A. Molineux, W. H. Selway, jun., G. Collis, jun., H. Dean, and G. F. Hussey. Another founding member of long standing was W. H. Baker. The first outing was to the Government Farm, Belair, on 24 November 1883.\n\n\nThe Society owns a number of Nature Reserves, covered by Heritage Agreements:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616425", "title": "Fu Manchu moustache", "text": "Fu Manchu moustache\n\nA Fu Manchu moustache or simply Fu Manchu is a full, straight moustache that originates on the corners of the mouth and grows downward past the clean-shaven lips and chin in two tapered \"tendrils\", often extending past the jawline. An expansion of the Fu Manchu sometimes includes a third long \"tendril\" descending from a small patch on the chin.\n\nThe Fu Manchu moustache derives its name from Fu Manchu, a fictional character created by British/Irish author Sax Rohmer, who is shown wearing such a moustache in film adaptations of Rohmer's stories. The literary Fu Manchu did not wear a moustache. The famous facial hair first appeared in the British serial \"The Mystery of Dr. Fu Manchu\" (1923); the Fu Manchu moustache then became integral to cinematic and television .\n\nThe Fu Manchu is a category of competition in the World Beard and Moustache Championships.\n\nThe facial hair style is often used to stereotype Asian, more specifically Chinese, ethnicity. Many caricatures of Chinese in the 19th and early 20th century depict Chinese with such facial hair.\n\nThe Fu Manchu is similar to (and commonly confused with) the horseshoe (or \"biker\") moustache; the difference between the two types is that the Fu Manchu is grown exclusively from the corners of the upper lip, creating two long \"tendrils\" that hang down past the clean-shaven mouth and chin area. The horseshoe simply involves growing the hair on either side of the lips and chin along with the mustache, thus creating the inverted-U or horseshoe shape, with none of the hair hanging over the jawline.\n\nA true Fu Manchu is considerably more difficult and time-consuming to produce as compared to the horseshoe; one mustache-centered publication declares \"You probably don't know anybody who has a [real] Fu Manchu.\"\n\n\n]"}
{"id": "10707608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10707608", "title": "Huguenots in South Africa", "text": "Huguenots in South Africa\n\nA large number of people of European heritage in South Africa are descended from Huguenots. Most of these originally settled in the Cape Colony, but were absorbed into the Afrikaner and Afrikaans-speaking population, because they had religious similarities to the Dutch colonists.\nEven before the large-scale arrival of the Huguenots at the Cape of Good Hope in the 17th century, a small number of individual Huguenot refugees settled there. They included Francois Villion, later known as Viljoen, and the du Toit brothers. In fact, the first Huguenot to arrive at the Cape of Good Hope was Maria de la Quellerie, the wife of governor Jan van Riebeeck, who started the settlement at the Cape of Good Hope in 1652 on behalf of the Dutch East India Company; however, she and her husband left for Batavia after ten years.\nAfter a commissioner was sent out from the Cape Colony in 1685 to attract more settlers, a more dedicated group of immigrants began to arrive. A larger number of French refugees began to arrive in the Cape after leaving their country as a result of the Edict of Fontainebleau (1685), which revoked the Edict of Nantes (1598) that had granted religious toleration to Protestants.\n\nOn 31 December 1687 a group of Huguenots set sail from France as the first of the large scale emigration of Huguenots to the Cape of Good Hope, which took place during 1688 and 1689. In total some 180 Huguenots from France, and 18 Walloons from the present-day Belgium, eventually settled at the Cape of Good Hope. A notable example of this is the emigration of Huguenots from La Motte d'Aigues in Provence, France. After this large scale emigration, individual Huguenot immigrant families arrived at the Cape of Good Hope as late as the first quarter of the 18th century, and the state-subsidised emigration of Huguenots was stopped in 1706.\n\nThis small body of immigrants had a marked influence on the character of the Dutch settlers. They were purposely spread out and given farms amongst the Dutch farmers. Owing to the policy instituted in 1701 of the Dutch East India Company which dictated that schools should teach exclusively in Dutch, that all official correspondence had to be done in Dutch, and strict laws of assembly, the Huguenots ceased by the middle of the 18th century to maintain a distinct identity, and the knowledge of French diminished and eventually disappeared as a home language. This assimilation into the colonial population was also due to the fact that many Huguenot descendants married individuals from the Dutch population.\n\nMany of these settlers were allocated farms in an area later called Franschhoek, Dutch for \"French corner\", in the present-day Western Cape province of South Africa. The valley was originally known as Olifantshoek (\"Elephant's Corner\"), so named because of the vast herds of elephants that roamed the area. The name of the area soon changed to \"le Coin Français\" (\"the French Corner\"), and later to Franschhoek, with many of the settlers naming their new farms after the areas in France from which they came. La Motte, La Cotte, Cabriere, Provence, Chamonix, Dieu Donne and La Dauphine were among some of the first established farms-—most of which still retain their original farm houses today.\n\nA large monument to commemorate the arrival of the Huguenots in South Africa was inaugurated on 17 April 1948 at Franschhoek. A museum dedicated to the Huguenot history in South Africa is located adjacent to the monument.\n\nA smaller monument commemorating the 300th anniversary of the arrival of the Huguenots is located in the Johannesburg Botanical Garden.\n\nFrench Huguenot descendants were also included in the exodus of frontier farmers that was called the Great Trek.\n\nVoortrekker surnames who were of French Huguenot ancestry include:-\n\n\nThere are many families, today mostly Afrikaans speaking, whose surnames bear witness to their Huguenot ancestry. A comprehensive list of these surnames can be seen on the Huguenot Memorial in the Johannesburg Botanical Garden. Examples of the more common names are Blignaut (\"Blignault\"), Cronje (\"Cronier\"), de Klerk (\"Le Clercq\"), Visagie (\"Visage\"), de Villiers, du Preez, du Plessis, du Toit, du Randt, Fourie, Fouche, Giliomee (\"Guilliaume\"), Gous / Gouws (\"Gauch\"), Hugo, Joubert, Jordaan (\"Jourdan\"), Labuschagne (\"la Buscagne\"), Lange, le Roux, Leonard, Lombard, Malan, Michel, Malherbe, Marais, Nel, Nortje (Nourtier), Pienaar, Retief, Rossouw, Roux, Terreblanche, Taljard, Theron and Viljoen (\"Villion\").\n\nSome of the descendants of these original Huguenot families became prominent figures in South African society, most notably F.W. de Klerk, the last State President of apartheid-era South Africa.\n\n\"Some of the original forms of the surnames have been put in brackets.\"\nVarious French-language first names have also gained popularity amongst Afrikaners, examples being Francois, Jacques, Pierre, Charles and Eugene.\n\nSome Afrikaans writers have Huguenot surnames, and were involved in setting up the Society of Real Afrikaners.\n\nThe wine industry in South Africa was greatly influenced by the Huguenots, many of whose families had owned vineyards in France. Many of the farms in the Western Cape province in South Africa still bear French names, such as Haute Cabrière, La Petite Provence, La Bourgogne, La Motte, La Bri, La Borie, La Chataigne and La Roche.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28342117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28342117", "title": "Illegal drug trade in Peru", "text": "Illegal drug trade in Peru\n\nThe illegal drug trade in Peru includes the growing of coca and the shipment of cocaine to the United States. In an example of the balloon effect, dramatic falls in coca cultivation in the late 1990s saw cultivation move to Colombia.\n\nIn 2001 American Christian missionary Roni Bowers's plane was shot down by the Peruvian Air Force, in the belief it was carrying drugs.\n\nIn 2004 Fernando Zevallos, founder of airline Aero Continente, was added to the US list of drug kingpins. The Chilean government accused the airline's personnel of using their airplanes for trafficking drugs and subsequently grounded Aero Continente Chile in June 2002 and seized their assets.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "14478464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14478464", "title": "Inuit Broadcasting Corporation", "text": "Inuit Broadcasting Corporation\n\nThe Inuit Broadcasting Corporation (IBC) is a television broadcasting company based in Nunavut. Its programming is targeted at the Inuit population of Nunavut and almost all of its programs are broadcast in Inuktitut. Select programs are also broadcast in English. In contrast with traditional commercial television broadcasting companies, IBC shows centre on Inuit culture. The company has five production centres in various places in Nunavut, all staffed by Inuit. Founded in the early 1980s, the IBC was the first Native language television network in North America.\n\nTelevision was first introduced to the north through CBC’s frontier coverage package, which allowed the delivery of southern videotaped programming to twenty-one northern communities. There was no northern content: CBC’s priority at that time was to extend its southern coverage area into the north, not to develop a northern-based service for northerners.\n\nIt is difficult to gauge the impact that the sudden introduction of southern broadcast services had on language, culture and day-to-day life in the traditional settlements of the Arctic. Some communities, such as Igloolik, initially voted to refuse television through a series of hamlet plebiscites, fearing irreversible damage to their lifestyle. Many national and regional Aboriginal organizations voiced the same fear, and insisted that native people had the right to define and contribute to any broadcast service distributed in their homelands.\n\nThe newly formed Inuit Tapirisat of Canada was determined that Inuit would not become just a new market for existing southern services in English and French: they insisted that communities should be permitted to define their own communications environment, and that Inuit should be able to contribute to the Canadian broadcasting system in a significant way. One of ITC’s first major policy statements called on the federal government to ensure Inuit control over the expansion of radio-telephone, community radio, videotape, and newspaper services into the Arctic.\n\nIn 1978, the federal Department of Communications (DOC) launched a program to test satellite applications, using the newly launched Anik B satellite. One area of particular interest to the government was the potential application of satellite technology to enable production and distribution of programming in the Arctic. The Inuit Tapirisat of Canada recognized an opportunity, and launched the Inukshuk Project.\n\nInukshuk linked six communities: Iqaluit, Pond Inlet, Igloolik, Baker Lake, Arviat, and Cambridge Bay. By today’s standards this proto-network was primitive: video and audio signals were broadcast by satellite from Iqaluit, and received locally in the remaining five communities. Sound was fed back from the communities to the studio in Iqaluit by phone line. Viewers were thus able to see what was happening in the Iqaluit studio, and hear audio from the other participating communities.\n\nAs the Inukshuk Project took shape, the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) responded to northern and Aboriginal concerns by appointing Rheal Terrien to head up a committee mandated to investigate the extension of broadcasting services to northern and remote communities. After hundreds of interviews and community consultations, the Therrien Committee recommended in 1980 that satellites be used to relay Canadian television programming to the north, and that \"…urgent measures be taken to enable northern native people to use broadcasting to support their languages and cultures.\"\n\nThe release of the Therrien report coincided with the scheduled conclusion of the Inukshuk project. It had been a success by any conceivable yardstick. Community interest and viewership had been high, many Inuit had been trained in basic television production, and the project had proven that a northern television network was technically and administratively feasible. Based on the project’s success, and armed with the recommendations of the Therrien report, ITC won a three-year project extension for Inukshuk, and began to plan a longer-term broadcast solution for the north.\n\nIn 1981 the Inuit Broadcasting Corporation (IBC) was incorporated, and licensed by the CRTC to produce and distribute Inuktitut-language television programming.\n\nOne of the new broadcaster’s first actions was the release of a discussion paper in 1981 setting out its long-term vision and goals in a discussion paper. Both the Department of Communications and the CRTC were seeking appropriate responses to the recommendations of the Therrien Report. IBC provided them with a number of recommendations, including:\n• A funding program for all Inuit broadcasters (IBC, Taqramiut Nipingat in northern Quebec, the newly formed OkalaKatiget Society in Labrador);\n• Recognition of Aboriginal broadcasters in the Broadcast Act;\n• A special CRTC policy acknowledging and supporting Aboriginal broadcasters;\n• The creation of a dedicated northern transponder (a satellite channel committed exclusively to northern programming).\n\nThe first of IBC’s goals was realized with the announcement on March 10, 1983 of the Northern Native Broadcast Access Program (NNBAP), which provided $33.1M over four years to thirteen northern Aboriginal organizations for the production of radio and/or television programming. Unlike other contribution programs for Aboriginal media, which tended to fund specific projects, the NNBAP allowed broadcasters to build permanent organizations, establish governance and management infrastructures, prepare production facilities, and design program schedules.\n\nThe program was not without its limitations. Funding was based on the assumption that an hour of television costs $5,000 to produce. However, the actual cost of an hour of programming at CBC in 1983 was $36,000.00, more than five times as much as the NNBAP formula. Funding was also tied to levels of production: IBC was required to produce five hours of Inuktitut language programming per week. Still, for the first time, IBC and the other indigenous broadcasters had a relatively solid funding base to build on, and a guarantee of at least four years of support.\n\nIn order to produce five hours of broadcast-quality television each week, IBC established five Inuit-staffed production centres through a two-year training program,including Inuit camera people, editors, switchers, sound recordists, lighting technicians, content producers (researchers, writers, directors, producers, journalists, on-air personnel), managers, administrators, and a governing Board. Eighteen trainees from five communities began the intensive program in 1983, and sixteen completed the course two years later.\n\nThe new network's first major trial was the 1983 Inuit Circumpolar Conference in Iqaluit, when IBC provided both live gavel-to-gavel coverage of the proceedings and pool video to journalists from around the world.\n\nOver the next three years IBC refined many elements of the look and style that defines the network to this day. Its programs were being carried on CBC, which required thirty minutes formats and a higher level of technical quality than had been the norm during Inukshuk. For the first time recurring weekly series were designed and produced. Two of IBC’s longest-running programs were first broadcast in those early years; these were \"Qaqqiq\", a regional current affairs program, and \"Kippingujautiit\", entertainment and storytelling.\n\nOne of IBC’s best-known programs was launched in 1986. From its creation, IBC had targeted children as an essential audience in their overall goal of language promotion and preservation. After two years of research, focus group testing and specialized training for an Iqaluit-based crew, the network launched \"Takuginai\", its award-winning series for Inuit children. Using puppets, graphic stories, live action, animation and special effects, Takuginai taught language, traditional and modern skills, and Inuit values and traditions. Takuginai has spun off books, posters, sunglasses, public service announcements, and even a celebrity tour for the puppets. In 2000 Leetia Ineak, the program’s producer, received a National Aboriginal Achievement award for her years of puppet design on the series.\n\nThe 1983 Northern Broadcasting Policy stated as one of its principles that northern native people should have \"Fair Access\" to northern broadcasting distribution systems to maintain and develop their cultures and languages. The Policy did not define \"Fair Access\"; in Nunavut, IBC relied on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation to carry its programming.\n\nCBC was generally supportive of IBC and its goals. But the programming produced by CBC’s own northern service took precedence, and IBC programming, as a priority, came last on the list, and in the schedule. IBC programs were run after twelve at night, and were subject to pre-emption whenever a hockey game ran late. Rosemarie Kuptana, then president of IBC, commented to the CRTC that \"God made our land the land of the midnight sun…it took the CBC to make it the Land of Midnight television.\"\n\nDespite the late night timeslots, several independent audience surveys confirmed that IBC was attracting up to 95 percent of Inuit viewers for its programming. However, the CBC Northern service planned to expand its own northern programming, and IBC programs were being pre-empted with increasing frequency.\n\nThe answer lay in the creation of a dedicated northern satellite channel. This was achieved in 1988, when Minister of Communications Flora MacDonald committed $10M to the creation of Television Northern Canada (TVNC), a pan-northern network established by northerners, for northerners. After three years of research, design and installation, the new network launched in 1992, providing IBC and other broadcasters with both a channel for their broadcast series, and an opportunity to return to experimental programming in the spirit of the Inukshuk project.\n\nTVNC led directly to the creation of the Aboriginal Peoples Television Network (APTN) in 1999, when the CRTC granted a license to APTN and mandated the carriage of the network as part of the basic service of Broadcast Distribution Undertakings.\n\nNorth America's first and longest-running Aboriginal language program for children. The series features \"Johnny\" the lemming and other locally made puppets, young hosts, animation and studio segments. Takuginai teaches both cultural values (respect for elders, sharing and patience) and Inuktitut numbers and syllabics. Awards include a Special Recognition Award from the Alliance for Children and Television; Award of Merit from the Children’s Broadcast Institute; and the Telefilm-APTN Best Aboriginal Language Award.\n\nA magazine program for Inuit teenagers, contemporary in its visual style and attire reflecting, but not replicating current youth programming on mainstream network channels, and reflecting everyday life of Inuit youth.\n\nA series of mini-documentaries profiling some of the most interesting people who live in Nunavut - politicians, elders, authors and actors. Each episode explores the life and accomplishments of these remarkable individuals.\n\nNunavut's only televised phone-in show, featuring live discussion of current issues and events such as climate change, polar bears, language use, the importance of the igloo, and the dog slaughter.\n\nNiqitsiat features the preparation and cooking of Inuit traditional foods, promoting healthy eating and tracing the source of food from the sea, the ice, and the tundra.\n\nThe Inuit Broadcasting Corporation and its precursor, the Inukshuk Project, have employed many of Nunavut's most distinguished media personalities and leaders. These include\n\nIn November 2006, the Inuit Broadcasting Corporation and the National Film Board of Canada announced the start of the Nunavut Animation Lab, offering animation training to Nunavut artists. Films from the Nunavut Animation Lab include Alethea Arnaquq-Baril's 2010 digital animation short \"Lumaajuuq\", winner of the Best Aboriginal Award at the Golden Sheaf Awards and named Best Canadian Short Drama at the imagineNATIVE Film + Media Arts Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17223900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17223900", "title": "Jakkana", "text": "Jakkana\n\nPeram Raju Jakkana is a famous Telugu poet in the early 15th century(1450). He was born to Akkamamba and Annayamathyulu in a Niyogi Brahmin family. He served as a poet in the court of Proudha Devarayalu. His famous work is \"Vikramarka Charithramu\", which he dedicated to Vennelakanti Sidhanamatya, the minister of treasury in the court of Proudha Devarayalu. This work describes the legend of Vikramaditya, the king of Ujjain.\n\nJakkana is a contemporary of Srinatha and Pothana.\n"}
{"id": "397752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397752", "title": "Kau cim", "text": "Kau cim\n\nKau Cim, Kau Chim or Lottery poetry () is a fortune telling practice that originated in China in which the querent (person asking the question) requests answers from a sacred oracle lot. The practice is often performed in a Taoist or Buddhist temple in front of an altar. Kau Cim is often referred to as Chien Tung or Chinese Fortune Sticks by westerners. In the US, a version has been sold since 1915 under the name Chi Chi Sticks. Kau Cim is also sometimes known as \"The Oracle of Kuan Yin\" in Buddhist traditions.\n\n\nThe practice of kau cim interpreting dates back to the Jin Dynasty, according to the \"Jade Box Records\", an ancient Chinese book on date selection, written by the famous Daoist monk Xu Xun in the 3rd century AD. Despite the Cultural Revolution in mainland China during the 1960s and 1970s, lottery poetry still prevails today in temples of Taiwan, Hong-Kong, Macau and mainland China. Most Taoism temples have lottery poetry to provide religious guidance for the believers.\n\nThe prediction begins with the cup storing a number of the sticks. After the querent has finished their devotions to the main deity, the querent purifies the cylinder by revolving it around the incense burner three times and mixing the sticks by hand. The querent kneels in prayer, holding the cup between their palms and asking their question to the deity, either aloud or by whispering. This part needs to be done decisively as one should not shift questions or hesitate on the question in the middle of the rite. The shaking of the cylinder, which is usually tipped slightly downward, results in at least one stick leaving the cylinder and being dropped onto the floor. In most cases, if multiple sticks leave the cylinder, those fortunes do not count and must be shaken again. Each stick, with its designated number, represents one answer.\n\nWhen a single stick falls out, the number will correspond to one of the hundred written oracles with an answer on it. The writing on the piece of paper will provide an answer to the question. In most cases, to confirm the validity of the answer given by the deity, the querent will pick up and toss two jiaobei blocks. Each block is round on one side and flat on the other. A successful answer requires one flat and one round side to be facing up, a failed answer will result in two round sides facing up. Much emphasis is placed on denial when both sides flat are tossed; some legends say when this happens, the deities are laughing at the querent. The querent will have the option to ask for a fortune again until a successful answer can be made.\n\nFollowing a successful fortune, interpretation may be needed to comprehend the answer. Answers can be interpreted by a temple priest or volunteers or can be self-interpreted by the querent. In many cases, an offering is made prior to the asking of the question in order to carry good favor from the higher powers. These offerings typically consist of incense, fresh fruits, cakes, or monetary donations.\n\nAt places such as the Thean Hou Temple the handheld bucket is replaced with a larger container. On the inside at the bottom of the container are protrusions (such as the heads of fixing bolts). To consult the oracle, the querent holds the sticks in a vertical bundle, raises them a little inside the bucket and drops them while holding them loosely. Any stick that stands proud of the rest (because it is resting on a protrusion, not having bounced off) is considered part of the divined answer.\n\nThe stick result is analyzed by an interpreter, who has a book of Chinese poetic phrases and stories. The interpretation is generally short ranged, typically covering no more than one year, using Chinese New Year as the starting point. The interpreter typically charges a small fee. Often, interpreters provide other services such as palm or face reading.\n\nBecause the accuracy of the prediction very much depends on the interpreter, some people run the result through a number of different interpreters to see whether similar results are drawn. The interpreted answer is usually a historical Chinese story re-told in modern sense. The story is basically the forthcoming event the querent is about to experience.\n\nIn some traditions, the believer draws one lottery and looks for the corresponding poem to the lottery. The poems are written or printed on a piece of paper, usually long and wide, with a Jueju poem on each piece as the answer to the believer from the gods.\n\nIn Hong Kong, by and large the most popular place for this fortune telling practice is the Wong Tai Sin Temple which draws thousands to millions of people each year.\n\nIn 1915 kau cim sticks were introduced to the United States under the trade name \"Chi Chi Chinese Fortune Teller\" by the Pacific Dry Goods Company of San Francisco, California, where a large population of Chinese immigrants had settled. The Chi Chi sticks, 78 in number, were made in China of bamboo but they were marked with Arabic numerals instead of Chinese characters, and were packaged in a bright yellow and red chipboard tube with a black lid (like a modern mailing tube). They were accompanied by a rolled-up booklet of 78 rhyming interpretations that fit inside the tube with the sticks.\n\nBy the early 1920s, Chi Chi sticks were available all across America, from several importers and under a variety of trade names, including \"Chien Tung Fortune Teller.\" They were heavily marketed to African American fortune tellers through mail-order catalogues. They fell out of popularity during World War II, but only due to problems with supply, as China had been invaded by Japan and trade routes were disrupted.\n\nIn the 1990s, importations of kau cim sticks were available again in the US. This time, packaged in leather-covered tubes painted with ornate Chinese designs, but also with the old rhyming Chi Chi stick booklet so well known to some Americans. Meanwhile, vintage Chi Chi sticks of the 1915-1935 era (if all their parts and the booklet are intact) have become highly desired artifacts among those who collect fortune telling objects.\n\nThe practice of using sticks in Chien Tung may be related to the game of pick-up sticks played today. This theory is based on a Japanese variation, called Mikado, which also has an emperor stick. A form of the game developed in the 16th century and may have been adapted from Chinese culture and religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34869810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34869810", "title": "Keyagana language", "text": "Keyagana language\n\nKeyagana (Ke’yagana) is a Papuan language spoken in Eastern Highlands Province, Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "1159411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1159411", "title": "Last Post", "text": "Last Post\n\nThe \"Last Post\" is either a B♭ bugle call within British infantry regiments, or an E♭ cavalry trumpet call in British cavalry and Royal Regiment of Artillery (Royal Horse Artillery and Royal Artillery), and is used at Commonwealth military funerals, and ceremonies commemorating those who have been killed in war. Its duration varies typically from a little over one minute to nearly three minutes. For ceremonial use, the Last Post is often followed by \"The Rouse\", or less usually the longer \"Reveille\".\n\nThe two regimental traditions have separate music for the call (see \"Trumpet & Bugle Calls for the British Army\" 1966). While the B♭ infantry bugle version is better known, the E♭ cavalry trumpet version is used by the state trumpeters of the Household Cavalry.\n\nThe \"First Post\" call signals the start of the duty officer's inspection of a British Army camp's sentry posts, sounding a call at each one. The \"Last Post\" call originally signalled merely that the final sentry post had been inspected, and the camp was secure for the night. In addition to its normal garrison use, the Last Post call had another function at the close of a day of battle. It signalled to those who were still out and wounded or separated that the fighting was done, and to follow the sound of the call to find safety and rest.\n\nIts use in Remembrance Day ceremonies in Commonwealth nations has two generally unexpressed purposes: the first is an implied summoning of the spirits of the Fallen to the cenotaph, the second is to symbolically end the day, so that the period of silence before the Rouse is blown becomes in effect a ritualised night vigil. The Last Post as played at the end of inspection typically lasted for about 45 seconds; when played ceremonially with notes held for longer, pauses extended, and the expression mournful, typical duration could be 75 seconds or more.\n\nThis custom dates from the 17th century or earlier. It originated with British troops stationed in the Netherlands, where it drew on an older Dutch custom, called \"taptoe\", from which comes the term \"Tattoo\" as in Military tattoo. The \"taptoe\" was also used to signal the end of the day, but originated from a signal that beer taps had to be shut, hence that the day had ended. It comes from the Dutch phrase \"Doe den tap toe\", meaning \"Close the tap\". The Dutch bugle call \"\", now used for remembrance events, is not the same tune as the Last Post.\n\nThe \"Last Post\" was used by British forces in North America in colonial times, but was replaced by the different \"Taps\" by the United States Army, first used in 1862 and officially recognized in 1874.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the \"Last Post\" was also carried to the various countries of the British Empire. In all these countries, it has been incorporated into military funerals, where it is played as a final farewell, symbolising the fact that the duty of the dead soldier is over and that they can rest in peace.\n\n\"Last Post\" is used in public ceremonials commemorating the war dead, particularly on Remembrance Day in the Commonwealth of Nations. In Australia and New Zealand it is also played on Anzac Day, usually before the two-minute silence, which concludes with \"The Rouse\".\n\nWhen the post is played during services such as Anzac Day, it is required of all current serving military members to salute for the duration of the call. During services organised by the Royal British Legion, it is expected that no salute is given during the \"Last Post\" and Silence, as all personnel will have removed head dress as in church service prayer, have heads bowed, weapons inverted, and flags and standards lowered.\n\nSince 1928, the \"Last Post\" has been played every evening at 8 p.m. by buglers of the local Last Post Association at the war memorial at Ypres in Belgium known as the Menin Gate, commemorating the British Empire dead at the Battle of Ypres during the First World War. The only exception to this was during the four years of the German occupation of Ypres from 20 May 1940 to 6 September 1944, when the ceremony moved to Brookwood Cemetery in England. \n\nOn the evening that Polish forces liberated Ypres, the ceremony was resumed at the Menin Gate, in spite of the heavy fighting still going on in other parts of the town. These buglers or trumpeters, sometimes seen in fire brigade uniform, are members of the fire brigade representing the Last Post Association, who organizes the events. The Last Post Association uses both silver B♭ bugles and E♭ cavalry trumpets, with either British Army tradition being respected during services at the gate.\n\nThe Last Post ceremony has now been held more than 30,000 times. On 9 July 2015, a ceremony titled \"A tribute to the tribute\" took place to commemorate the 30,000th ceremony.\nThe origins of the words for the Last Post are lost to history, but are recorded as follows:\n\nThe \"Last Post\" was incorporated into the finale of Robert Steadman's \"In Memoriam\", a choral work on the subject of remembrance. It is also incorporated into Karl Jenkins's orchestral mass \"The Armed Man\", and in the movement entitled \"Small Town\", in Peter Sculthorpe's 1963 chamber orchestra work \"The Fifth Continent\". A slightly altered version forms part of the slow movement of the \"Pastoral Symphony\" of Ralph Vaughan Williams and the ending of Mike Sammes' choral setting of Laurence Binyon's poem \"For the Fallen\".\n\nRobert Graves's poem \"The Last Post\" describes a soldier's funeral during World War I. Ford Madox Ford used \"The Last Post\" as title for part of his tetralogy Parade's End.\n\nIn 2015, Lee Kernaghan recorded a version for his album \"Spirit of the Anzacs\".\n\n\"The Last Post\" is the title of a theatre play by David Owen Smith and Peter Came performed during Armistice Week at Lincoln Drill Hall, Lincoln in November 2014. The play concerns the Beechey family of Lincoln, UK. Amy Beechey had eight sons who all enlisted to fight during the First World War; only three of them survived. The bugle call is played during the final moments of the play. The play was directed by Janie Smith and performed by people of Lincoln.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "738743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=738743", "title": "List of awards named after people", "text": "List of awards named after people\n\nThis is a list of prizes that are named after people.\n\n\"For other lists of eponyms (names derived from people) see Lists of etymologies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30793292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30793292", "title": "Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Ass'n", "text": "Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Ass'n\n\nLyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association, 485 U.S. 439 (1988), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court ruled on the applicability of the Free Exercise Clause to the practice of religion on Native American sacred lands, specifically in the Chimney Rock area of the Six Rivers National Forest in California. This area, also known as the High Country, was used by the Yurok, Karuk, and Tolowa tribes as a religious site.\n\nThe ruling is considered a key example of judicial restraint by the Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1982, the United States Forest Service drew up a report known as the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) that examined the environmental impact of constructing a proposed road through and possibly harvesting timber in the Six Rivers National Forest. Due to the religious importance of the area, the study found that if the U.S. Forest Service’s plans went forward, the damage done to the land would be severe and irreparable. Therefore, the report advised against both the road and timber harvesting. Additionally, the EIS suggested possible alternative was routes that avoided key religious sites. However, this recommendation and the rest of the report was rejected by the U.S. Forest Service. The report commissioned by the United States Forest Service recognized that the construction of the road would destroy the religion of the American Indian tribes.\n\nAmerican Indian groups (led by the Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association) and the State of California sued for an injunction, challenging both the road building and timber harvesting decisions. The court issued a permanent injunction that prohibited the Government from constructing the Chimney Rock section of the road or putting the timber harvesting plan into effect, holding, inter alia, that such actions would violate respondent Indians' rights under the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment and would violate certain federal statutes.\n\nThe Trial Court found for Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association and issued an injunction. The USFS appealed. The Appellate Court affirmed and the USFS appealed again bringing the case to the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nAs a case before the U.S. Supreme Court, \"Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective\" was argued on November 30, 1987. The petitioner, Richard E. Lyng, the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture at the time, claimed that constructing a road and harvesting timber through lands considered sacred by Native American tribes violated the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution. The respondent in the case was the Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Association, et al.\n\nWith the claim at hand, the U.S. Supreme Court decided to rule on the question of whether the First Amendment’s Free Exercise Clause prohibited the government from harvesting or developing the Chimney Rock Area.\n\nAfter much deliberation, the holding of the court was released on April 19, 1988. In a vote of 5-3 (Anthony M. Kennedy did not participate), the court ruled that \"construction of the proposed road does not violate the First Amendment regardless of its effect on the religious practices of the respondents because it compels no behavior contrary to their belief\".\n\nIn support of the decision, Justice Sandra Day O’Connor cited \"Bowen v. Roy\" (1986), a previous U.S. Supreme Court case that involved a family who did not wish to give their child a social security number for religious reasons. Also argued with regard to the Free Exercise Clause, this holding of the court in this case was that the government could not change its system and make an exception for an individual because of religiously based reasons. Judging by the parallels in this case with that of \"Lyng\", Justice O’ Connor found that although damage would certainly be done to the Six Rivers/Chimney Rock area, the road construction and timber harvesting would not force individuals to violate their beliefs or be denied of the equal rights shared by other citizens of the United States. In deciding the case, the Supreme Court had to determine whether a government action would cause a \"substantial burden\" on religion. Since the United States Forest Service's report had recognized that the religion of tribes would effectively be irreparably harmed, the tribes had a strong argument that they met this element of the law. However, the Supreme Court set out new requirements for proving substantial burden. The Court stated that a substantial burden only exist where the government imposes a sanction (fine or imprisonment) or denies a benefit to individuals that they would otherwise be entitled to receive. Since this case involved neither, the decision found that no substantial burden existed.\n\nJustice William J. Brennan Jr. disagreed with the majority opinion and, with a citation of the case \"Sherbert v. Verner\" (1963), declared that the holding of \"Lyng\" stripped Native Americans of their Constitutional protection against threats to their religious practices.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court reversed and allowed the road to be built.\n\nThe Supreme Court cited \"Bowen v. Roy\" (476 U.S. 693 (1986)) and, in a 3-5 decision, found that the Free Exercise Clause affords an individual protection from certain forms of governmental compulsions, but it does not afford an individual a right to dictate the conduct of the government's internal procedures.\n\nAfter the case was decided, Congress intervened and designated the area a \"wilderness\" under the Wilderness Act, and the road was not built. The Act protected the High Country, by adding it to the Siskiyou Wilderness Area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22121673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22121673", "title": "Malagasy language", "text": "Malagasy language\n\nMalagasy (; ) is an Austronesian language and the national language of Madagascar. Most people in Madagascar speak it as a first language as do some people of Malagasy descent elsewhere.\n\nThe Malagasy language is the westernmost member of the Malayo-Polynesian branch of the Austronesian language family. Its distinctiveness from nearby African languages was already noted in 1708 by the Dutch scholar Adriaan Reland.\n\nIt is related to the Malayo-Polynesian languages of Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines, and specifically to the East Barito languages spoken in Borneo, with apparent influence from early Old Malay. There appears to be a Bantu influence or substratum in Malagasy phonotactics (Dahl 1988).\n\nMalagasy is the demonym of Madagascar from which it is taken to refer to the people of Madagascar in addition to their language.\n\nMadagascar was first settled by Austronesian peoples from Maritime Southeast Asia who had passed through Borneo. The migrations continued along the first millennium, as confirmed by linguistic researchers who showed the close relationship between the Malagasy language and Old Malay and Old Javanese languages of this period. Far later, c. 1000, the original Austronesian settlers mixed with Bantus and Arabs, amongst others. There is evidence that the predecessors of the Malagasy dialects first arrived in the southern stretch of the east coast of Madagascar.\n\nMalagasy has a tradition of oratory arts and poetic histories and legends. The most well-known is the national epic, \"Ibonia\", about a Malagasy folk hero of the same name.\n\nMalagasy is the principal language spoken on the island of Madagascar. It is also spoken by Malagasy communities on neighboring Indian Ocean islands such as Réunion and Comoros. Large expatriate Malagasy communities speaking the language also exist in France and Quebec and, to a lesser extent, Belgium and Washington, DC.\n\nThe Merina dialect of Malagasy is considered the national language of Madagascar. It is one of two official languages alongside French in the 2010 constitution putting in place the Fourth Republic. Previously, under the 2007 constitution, Malagasy was one of three official languages alongside French and English. It is the language of instruction in all public schools through grade five for all subjects, and remains the language of instruction through high school for the subjects of history and Malagasy language.\n\nThere are two principal dialects of Malagasy; Eastern (including Merina) and Western (including Sakalava), with the isogloss running down the spine of the island, the south being western, and the central plateau and much of the north (apart from the very tip) being eastern. \"Ethnologue\" encodes 12 varieties of Malagasy as distinct languages. They have about a 70% similarity in lexicon with the Merina dialect.\n\nThe Eastern dialects are:\n\nThe Western dialects are:\nAdditionally, Bushi (41,700 speakers) is spoken on the French overseas territory of Mayotte, which is part of the Comoro island chain situated northwest of Magadascar.\n\nThe two main dialects of Malagasy are easily distinguished by several phonological features.\n\nSakalava lost final nasal consonants, whereas Merina added a voiceless : \n\nFinal *t became in the one but in the other: \n\nSakalava retains ancestral *li and *ti, whereas in Merina these become (as in \"huditra\" 'skin' above) and :\nHowever, these last changes started in Borneo before the Malagasy arrived in Madagascar.\n\nThe language has a written literature going back presumably to the 15th century. When the French established Fort-Dauphin in the 17th century, they found an Arabico-Malagasy script in use, known as Sorabe (\"large writings\"). This Arabic Ajami script was mainly used for astrological and magical texts. The oldest known manuscript in that script is a short Malagasy-Dutch vocabulary from the early 17th century, which was first published in 1908 by Gabriel Ferrand though the script must have been introduced into the southeast area of Madagascar in the 15th century.\n\nThe first bilingual renderings of religious texts are those by Étienne de Flacourt, who also published the first dictionary of the language. Radama I, the first literate representative of the Merina monarchy, though extensively versed in the Arabico-Malagasy tradition, opted in 1823 for a Latin system derived by David Jones and invited the Protestant London Missionary Society to establish schools and churches. The first book to be printed in Malagasy using Latin characters was the Bible, which was translated into Malagasy in 1835 by British Protestant missionaries working in the highlands area of Madagascar.\nThe current Malagasy alphabet consists of 21 letters: \"a, b, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, m, n, o, p, r, s, t, v, y, z.\" The orthography maps rather straightforwardly to the phonemic inventory. The letters \"i\" and \"y\" both represent the sound (\"y\" is used word-finally, and \"i\" elsewhere), while \"o\" is pronounced . The affricates and are written \"tr\" and \"dr\", respectively, while and are written \"ts\" and \"j\". The letter \"h\" is often silent. All other letters have essentially their IPA values. The letters c, q, u, w and x are all not used in native Malagasy words.\n\n\"Mp\" and occasionally \"nt\" may begin a word, but they are pronounced .\n\n\"@\" is used informally as a short form for \"amin'ny\", which is a preposition followed by the definite form, meaning for instance \"with the\".\n\nDiacritics are not obligatory in standard Malagasy, except in the case where its absence leads to an ambiguity: \"tanàna\" (\"city\") must have the diacritic to discriminate itself from \"tanana\" (\"hand\"). They may however be used in the following ways:\n\nAfter a stressed syllable, as at the end of most words and in the final two syllables of some, are reduced to . ( is spelled in such cases, though in monosyllabic words like \"ny\" and \"vy\", is pronounced as a full .) Final , and sometimes final syllables, are devoiced at the end of an utterance. and are never reduced or devoiced. The large amounts of reduction vowels and their effect on neighbouring consonants give Malagasy a phonological quality not unlike that of Portuguese.\n\nThe alveolars are slightly palatalized. vary between and , and are especially likely to be the latter when followed by unstressed : Thus French \"malgache\" 'Malagasy'. The velars are palatalized after (e.g. \"alika\" 'dog'). is frequently elided in casual speech.\n\nThe reported postalveolar trilled affricates are sometimes simple stops, , but they often have a rhotic release, . It is not clear if they are actually trilled, or are simply non-sibilant affricates . However, in another Austronesian language with a claimed trilled affricate, Fijian, trilling occurs but is rare, and the primary distinguishing feature is that it is postalveolar. The Malagasy sounds are frequently transcribed , and that is the convention used in this article.\n\nIn reduplication, compounding, possessive and verbal constructions, and after nasals, fricatives and liquids ('spirants') become stops, as follows:\n\nWords are generally accented on the penultimate syllable, unless the word ends in \"ka\", \"tra\" and often \"na\", in which case they are stressed on the antepenultimate syllable. In many dialects, unstressed vowels (except ) are devoiced, and in some cases almost completely elided; thus \"fanorona\" is pronounced .\n\nMalagasy has a verb–object–subject (VOS) word order:\n\n\"Mamaky boky ny mpianatra\"(reads book the student)\"The student reads the book\"\n\n\"Nividy ronono ho an'ny zaza ny vehivavy\"(bought milk for the child the woman)\"The woman bought milk for the child\"\n\nWithin phrases, Malagasy order is typical of head-initial languages: Malagasy has prepositions rather than postpositions (\"ho an'ny zaza\" \"for the child\"). Determiners precede the noun, while quantifiers, modifying adjective phrases, and relative clauses follow the noun (\"ny boky\" \"the book(s)\", \"ny boky mena\" \"the red book(s)\", \"ny boky rehetra\" \"all the books\", \"ny boky novakin'ny mpianatra\" \"the book(s) read by the student(s)\").\n\nSomewhat unusually, demonstrative determiners are repeated both before and after the noun \"ity boky ity\" \"this book\" (lit. \"this book this\").\n\nVerbs have syntactically three productive \"voice\" forms according to the thematic role they play in the sentence: the basic \"agent focus\" forms of the majority of Malagasy verbs, the derived \"patient focus\" forms used in \"passive\" constructions, and the derived \"goal focus\" forms used in constructions with focus on instrumentality. Thus\n\n\nall mean \"I wash my hands with soap\" though focus is determined in each case by the sentence initial verb form and the sentence final (noun) argument: \"manasa\" \"wash\" and \"aho\" \"I\" in (1), \"sasako\" \"wash\" and \"ny tanako\" \"my hands\" in (2), \"anasako\" \"wash\" and \"ny savony\" \"soap\" in (3). There is no equivalent to the English preposition \"with\" in (3).\n\nVerbs inflect for past, present, and future tense, where tense is marked by prefixes (e.g. \"mividy\" \"buy\", \"nividy\" \"bought\", \"hividy\" \"will buy\").\n\nMalagasy has no grammatical gender, and nouns do not inflect for number. However, pronouns and demonstratives have distinct singular and plural forms (cf. \"io boky io\" \"that book\", \"ireto boky ireto\" \"these books\").\n\nThere is a complex series of personal and demonstrative pronouns, depending on the speaker's familiarity and closeness to the referent.\n\nMalagasy has a complex system of deixis (these, those, here, there, etc.), with seven degrees of distance as well as evidentiality across all seven. The evidential dimension is prototypically visible vs. non-visible referents; however, the non-visible forms may be used for visible referents which are only vaguely identified or have unclear boundaries, whereas the visible forms are used for non-visible referents when these are topical to the conversation.\nNotes:\n\nMalagasy shares much of its basic vocabulary with the Ma'anyan language, a language from the region of the Barito River in southern Borneo. The Malagasy language also includes some borrowings from Arabic and Bantu languages (especially the Sabaki branch, from which most notably Swahili derives), and more recently from French and English.\n\nThe following samples are of the Merina dialect or Standard Malagasy, which is spoken in the capital of Madagascar and in the central highlands or \"plateau\", home of the Merina people. It is generally understood throughout the island.\n\nThe first dictionary of the language is Étienne de Flacourt's \"Dictionnaire de la langue de Madagascar\" published in 1658 though earlier glossaries written in Arabico-Malagasy script exist. A later \"Vocabulaire Anglais-Malagasy\" was published in 1729. An 892-page Malagasy–English dictionary was published by James Richardson of the London Missionary Society in 1885, available as a reprint; however, this dictionary includes archaic terminology and definitions. Whereas later works have been of lesser size, several have been updated to reflect the evolution and progress of the language, including a more modern, bilingual frequency dictionary based on a corpus of over 5 million Malagasy words.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3283676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3283676", "title": "Malicious compliance", "text": "Malicious compliance\n\nMalicious compliance is the behaviour of intentionally inflicting harm by strictly following the orders of a superior knowing that compliance with the orders will not have the intended result. The term usually implies the following of an order in such a way that ignores the order's intent but follows it to the letter.\n\nFor example, when a group of firefighters were ordered by management to wear the unwanted self-contained breathing apparatus that they were being issued with for safety reasons, they took to wearing the equipment on their backs while ignoring it and breathing normally. This made their work less efficient than if they had not been wearing the breathing apparatus at all. A further instruction was required ordering them to wear \"and use\" the apparatus.\n\nMalicious compliance is usually done to injure or harm a superior while maintaining a sense of legitimacy. A specific form of industrial action that utilizes this behavior is work-to-rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "6723885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6723885", "title": "Masters athletics", "text": "Masters athletics\n\nMasters athletics is a class of the sport of athletics for veteran athletes in the events of track and field, road running and cross country running. The competitions feature five-year age groups beginning at age 35. Men as old as 105 and women in their 100s have competed in running, jumping and throwing events. Masters are sometimes known as veterans.\n\nSince at least the early 1930s, middle-aged athletes in Europe, Australia and New Zealand have competed with younger athletes, especially in cross country and road races. Some were active into their 50s. And on the track, Briton Don Finlay recorded a 14.4-second mark in the 120-yard high hurdles in 1949 at age 40, according to the biennial handbook published by World Masters Athletics.\n\nIn 1966, San Diego civil lawyer David Pain began organizing what he called \"masters miles\" at indoor and outdoor track meets, and set the minimum age at 40. He and others soon launched the U.S. National Masters Championships, where everyone 40 and over competed together. The inaugural meet, at San Diego's Balboa Stadium, was held July 19–20, 1968, and attracted 186 competitors. The second U.S. masters nationals, July 3–6, 1969, drew 200 athletes and introduced 10-year age groups for all events.\n\nInspired by these first nationals, participants founded their own masters meets across the United States and into Canada. Also helping light a fire under sedentary seniors was retired Air Force Maj. Kenneth H. Cooper, a physician whose 1968 book \"Aerobics\" created a running craze. Former University of Oregon coach Bill Bowerman, who in 1962 witnessed older people doing \"jogging\" in New Zealand, also is credited with fanning masters flames with his many articles written on the subject in the 1960s.\n\nIn October 1971, Pain and his travel-agent wife, Helen, traveled to London, Munich, Copenhagen and several other European cities to lay the groundwork for a historic masters track tour of Europe, Olson's book recalled. In late-summer 1972, the Pains took 152 mainly U.S. and Canadian masters athletes to London, Helsinki, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Cologne for age-group track meets and distance races—thus jump-starting the worldwide masters track movement. In December 1973, another tour by the Pains, with 51 athletes, traveled to the South Pacific and Oceania for more age-group competitions.\n\nFormer Chilean decathlete Hernán Figueroa instigated development of organizations across South America.\n\nThe first World Masters Championships were held August 11–16, 1975, in Toronto, Ontario. Men and women from 32 nations took part. A meeting at the University of Toronto saw the election of a steering committee to plan an international governing body for masters track.\n\nThe inaugural Americas Masters Games is being held in Vancouver in 2016.\n\nWorld Masters Athletics (WMA) is the worldwide governing body for Masters athletics. It provides a global standard of rule modifications (based upon the international rules for the sport created by the IAAF) for athletes of a certain age. Each individual country governs its own affairs with an organizational governing body that is an affiliate to WMA.\n\nThe World Association of Veteran Athletes was founded August 9, 1977, at the second World Masters Athletics Championships in Gothenburg, Sweden. World masters championships have been held outdoors every two years ever since, and a biennial World Masters Indoor Championships debuted in March 2004 in Sindelfingen, Germany. The most recent outdoor world meet was in 2011 in Sacramento, California. The most recent Indoor Championships were held in Jyväskylä, Finland in April 2012.\n\nWAVA, as it was known, later changed its name to World Masters Athletics and continues to be the sport's governing body. WMA has been working to coordinate its outdoor championship schedule with the International Masters Games Association, which holds the multisport World Masters Games every four years.\n\n\n\nA major contribution of masters athletics was the introduction of the Age-Graded Tables, a set of \"age factors\" and \"age standards\" that, when multiplied by a time or distance, allow athletes of any age and event to compare their performances with that of any other athlete. According to \"Age-Graded Tables\" published by National Masters News, individual statisticians first devised the tables in the mid-1970s as a way of helping score multi-event competitions for older athletes, such as the decathlon, heptathlon and indoor pentathlon.\n\nThe first official Age-Graded Tables were compiled by WAVA and published by National Masters News in 1989. Revisions (taking into account improved performances at all ages) were released in 1991, 1994, 2006, 2010 and 2015. The tables can be applied to five-year age groups or individual ages from 8 to 100. The only official use of the Age-Graded Tables by WMA is in scoring multi-event competitions. But the Age-Graded Tables have been incorporated into track meet management software by Hy-Tek and others and used to determine age-graded winners in many other competitions, especially road runs.\n\nThe tables also show how an older athlete's performance compares with an Open (20-30) athlete's mark. But the tables have been controversial. For example, Jamaican-born Olympian Merlene Ottey in 2006 ran the 100-meter dash in 11.34 seconds at the age of 46. The Age-Graded Tables suggest that performance corresponds to an Open (ages 20–30) equivalent of 10.122. Since the open world record for women is 10.49 (by Florence Griffith Joyner in 1988), Ottey's converted mark seems implausible. In fact, the WMA committee has excluded certain performances as \"nonrepresentative,\" and not used them in designing the Age-Graded Tables.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4216966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4216966", "title": "Mukkuvar", "text": "Mukkuvar\n\nMukkuvar () is a caste found in the coastal regions of Sri Lanka and the Indian states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala.\n\nThe community is traditionally occupied in fishing, conch shell and pearl diving but are also found as involved in agriculture. They also include the major landlords in the Eastern Province of Sri Lanka.\n\nThe name of the caste has several etymology theories. According to one is Mukkuvar derived from Tamil word \"mukku\" (means tip or corner) and the suffix \"ar\" (people), thus the term denotes \"those from tip of the landmass\". Another theory states that the word \"Mukkuvan\" (singular form), means \"diver\" derived from the Dravidian word \"muluku\" (to immerse or to dive). Other titles used by the community are \"Kukankulam, Murkukan\" and \"Mukkiyar\".\n\nThe earliest mention of the Mukkuvar is in the Sinhalese panegyric called \"Dambadeni asna\" (13th century AD\")\", mentioning them as soldiers of Parakramabahu II. Their folk origin varies from region to region. According to the legend of the Mukkuvar from Kerala, they emigrated from Sri Lanka. The \"Mattakallappu Manmiyam\" texts attribute the emigration of the Sri Lankan Mukkuvar from South India under the rule of Kalinga Magha in 12th century AD.\n\nThe Mukkuvar are found in Northern Province and Eastern Province of Sri Lanka. Mukkuvar tribes migrated from Kilakarai in Tamil Nadu to cities in Puttalam and Jaffna Kingdom in the 8th century. The Jaffna chronicle, \"Yalpana Vaipava Malai\", mentions the exile of Mukkuvars from Jaffna Kingdom to Batticaloa. They established a local polity in Puttalam, northwestern Sri Lanka. However, they and the Sonakar were defeated in a three-month siege by the Karaiyar chieftains, sponsored by the Kingdom of Kotte in the 15th century. This event is celebrated in a Sinhalese palm leaf manuscript called the Mukkara Hatana (\"The Mukkuvar War\").\n\nThe \"Mattakallappu Manmiyam\" refers to the defeat of the Thimilar by the Mukkuvar and the Sonakar in eastern parts of the island. Several places in Eastern Province bear names related to this event. The theme of the Mukkuvar seeking the aid of Muslim Sonakars was always present and at that time alliances and intermarriage between the communities took place. The Batticaloa region was under the leadership of Mukkuvar \"Vannimai\" chiefs.\n\nOne of the earliest tribes to get converted to Christianity by Thomas the Apostle were the Mukkuvars from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala. The Christian Mukkuvar identify with the Catholic Church. The Mukkuvar practising Islam are known as \"Pusalan\", \"Pulasar\", \"Puislam\" or \"New muslims\", derived from the Tamil word \"putiya\" (new) and \"Islam\". The Mukkuvars of Sri Lanka from North Western Province are mostly Roman Catholic with a strong minority of Muslim Mukkuvars, however they are mostly Hindus in the Northern and Eastern provinces.\n\nThe Mukkuvars of eastern parts of Sri Lanka follow the Mukkuva laws, also known as \"Mukkuva Ēṟppāṭu\", which applies to marriage and property. The Mukkuvars in Eastern Sri Lanka are, like other castes, also divided into \"kudi's\" (matrilineal clans).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11201529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11201529", "title": "National League of Families POW/MIA Flag", "text": "National League of Families POW/MIA Flag\n\nThe National League of Families POW/MIA flag, also known as the POW/MIA flag or simply the POW flag, consists of a silhouette of a prisoner of war (POW) before a guard tower and barbed wire in white on a black field. \"POW/MIA\" appears above the silhouette and the words \"You Are Not Forgotten\" appear below in white on the black field.\n\nThe POW/MIA flag was created for the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia and officially recognized by the United States Congress in conjunction with the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue, \"as the symbol of our Nation's concern and commitment to resolving as fully as possible the fates of Americans still prisoner, missing and unaccounted for in Southeast Asia, thus ending the uncertainty for their families and the Nation.\"\n\nThe original design for the flag was created by Newt Heisley in 1972 The National League of Families then-national coordinator, Evelyn Grubb, wife of a POW, oversaw its development and also campaigned to gain its widespread acceptance and use by the United States government and also local governments and civilian organizations across the United States.\n\nIn 1971, while the Vietnam War was still being fought, Mary Helen Hoff, the wife of a service member missing in action and member of the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia, recognized the need for a reference symbol about U.S. POW/MIAs, some of whom had been held in captivity for as many as seven years.\n\nThe flag is black, and bears in the center, in black and white, the emblem of the league. The emblem was designed by Newton F. Heisley, and features a white disk bearing in black silhouette the bust of a man (Jeffery Heisley), watch tower with a guard on patrol, and a strand of barbed wire; above the disk are the white letters POW and MIA framing a white 5-pointed star; below the disk is a black and white wreath above the white motto: \"You are not Forgotten.\"\nThe POW/MIA was flown over the White House for the first time in September 1982\nThe flag has been altered many times; the colors have been switched from black with white – to red, white and blue – to white with black; the POW/MIA has at times been revised to MIA/POW.\nOn March 9, 1989, a league flag that had flown over the White House on the 1988 National POW/MIA Recognition Day was installed in the U.S. Capitol rotunda as a result of legislation passed by the 100th Congress. The league's POW-MIA flag is the only flag ever displayed in the rotunda, and the only one other than the Flag of the United States to have flown over the White House. The leadership of both houses of Congress hosted the installation ceremony in a demonstration of bipartisan congressional support.\n\nOn August 10, 1990, the 101st Congress passed U.S. Public Law 101-355, recognizing the National League of Families POW/MIA flag and designating it \"as a symbol of our Nation's concern and commitment to resolving as fully as possible the fates of Americans still prisoner, missing and unaccounted for in Southeast Asia, thus ending the uncertainty for their families and the Nation.\" Beyond Southeast Asia, it has been a symbol for POW/MIAs from all U.S. wars.\n\nThe flag is ambiguous as it implies that personnel listed as MIA may in fact be held captive. The official, bipartisan, U.S. government position is that there is \"no compelling evidence that proves that any American remains alive in captivity in Southeast Asia\". The Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) provides centralized management of prisoner of war/missing personnel (POW/MP) affairs within the United States Department of Defense and is responsible for investigating the status of POW/MIA issues. As of 29 March 2017, 1,611 Americans remained unaccounted for, of which 1,023 were classified as further pursuit, 497 as no further pursuit and 91 as deferred.\n\nIn October 2017, state government buildings in Maryland began flying the POW/MIA flag outside.\n\nWith the passage of Section 1082 of the 1998 Defense Authorization Act during the first term of the 105th Congress, the POW/MIA flag was specified to fly each year on:\nThe POW/MIA flag will be flown on the grounds or the public lobbies of major military installations as designated by the U.S. Secretary of Defense, all Federal National Cemeteries, the Korean War Veterans Memorial, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, the White House, the United States Post Offices and at official offices of the Secretaries of State, Defense and Veterans Affairs, and Director of the Selective Service System. Civilians are free to fly the POW/MIA flag whenever they wish.\n\nIn the U.S. Armed Forces, the dining halls, mess halls and chow halls display a single table and chair in a corner draped with the POW-MIA flag as a symbol for the missing, thus reserving a chair in hopes of their return.\n\nOther color patterns exist: the orange and black pattern was run by Outpost Flags at the time of Harley Davidson's 100th anniversary, so that the bikers would help keep the issue alive and in the forefront of American politics. There are red and white versions, which some say are to cover more recent military actions, but this is not official policy. There are black and red versions available as well.\n\nWhen displayed from a single flagpole, the POW/MIA flag should fly directly below, and be no larger than, the United States flag (Civilian or on congressionally designated days). For U.S. government agencies under a Chain of Command the U.S. Flag Code has a complete order of precedence that mirrors Army Regulations 840-10 specifically 840-10 2-2.c. If on separate poles, the U.S. flag should always be placed to the right of other flags (the viewer's left; the flag's own right). On the six national observances for which Congress has ordered display of the POW/MIA flag, it is generally flown immediately below or adjacent to the United States flag as second in order of precedence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32093142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32093142", "title": "Nze na Ozo", "text": "Nze na Ozo\n\nThe Nze na Ozo society (pronounced \"Nzeh nah Awzaw\"), is the highest and most important magico-religious and social grouping in the Igbo society of Southeast Nigeria. To become \"Ozo\" implies that the title holder is now an ‘\"Nze\"’ implying living spirit and an ancestor. One then becomes the moral conscience of the community and is seen to be a fair adjudicator in cases of disputes within the community. In times of crisis, most Igbo communities will rely on Ozo members for leadership. Generally, in most Igbo communities, only holders of Ichi title may become candidates for \"Ozo\" title., however although anthropologist such as Jeffreys reports cases of women with Ichi scarification, only men can belong to \"Ozo\" with membership according the individual extreme prestige, power and influence in the community.\n\nTaking \"Ozo\" title is extremely expensive with the lower grades costing in excess of US$25,000 in initiation cost and up to another US$2000 in annual subscriptions. Although there is hegemony across Igboland on the notion of \"Ozo\", categorisation and grades of Ozo titles are different across Igbo communities. For example, with the exception of the Onitsha and Delta Igbo, certain titles of the \"Ozo\" such as ‘\"Ezeana\"’ may not be taken until the candidate was seen to have been ‘a man’. Being that Igbo’s are gerontologic in outlook, the basic pre-condition for such an assessment was to ascertain whether the father of a candidate was still alive. If a candidate’s father was still alive, the title could not be taken. This rule however does not apply to Onitsha Igbo’s who can take \"Ozo\" title while a candidates father is alive. In other Igbo communities, especially those in the Awka-Nri axis, some exceptions are made where the candidate completes the initiation rites into \"Ozo\", but is referred to as ‘\"Nze-agbala\"’ until the father dies. Such a person may however not be allowed to dance to \"Ufie\" music which is a sacred music danced by \"Ozo\" holders on special Igbo religious festivals such as the New Yam Festival. Another major difference in taking of \"Ozo\" title in Igboland relates to the pre-requisite for the candidate to have earlier taken Ichi title (\"gbue Ichi\"). While taking Ozo title in most Igbo communities in the Awka-Nri axis requires the candidate to have taken Ichi title, in Onitsha, Ichi is not a recognised institution and is therefore not undertaken by the Onitsha Igbo and some of the Delta Igbo. The Nze na Ozo society does not exist in most southern Igbo communities such as the Aro. Instead, these communities have masquerade societies such as Okonko and Ekpe.\n\nIn most of parts of Igboland, there are generally two major classes of \"Ozo\". The first is \"nnukwu Ozo\" (big \"Ozo\"). Within \"nnukwu Ozo\", there are three grades consisting of \"Dunu\", \"Dim\" and \"Ezeana\". In the second class of Ozo referred to as obele \"Ozo\" (small \"Ozo\"), again they are generally three grades exist consisting of \"Eyisi\", \"Ezuzo\" and \"Okpala\". It must however be recognised that until about 1930, \"nnukwu Ozo\" had a fourth (and highest) grade of \"Ozo\" referred to as \"Igwe\" (Sky) which only the Eze Nri, the spiritual leader of the Ozo system held. This has however changed with most Igbo communities being led by a senior \"Ozo\" holder referred to as \"Igwe\" or \"Eze\". The different grades of \"Ozo\" are not necessarily distinct based on nomenclature alone. For example, while \"Ozo Okpala\" is regarded as obele \"Ozo\", the position is usually taken by the first son in a lineage who by taking the title becomes responsible for arbitrating internal family disputes.\n"}
{"id": "56720403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56720403", "title": "Papello", "text": "Papello\n\nThe Italian term papello (in ) indicates \"a long and detailed paper note, a letter or a complaint\" containing indications.\n\nIn Italian press since 2000s, the term is referred to the State-Mafia Pact occurred during 1990s. A copy of the \"papello\" was consigned to magistrates by Massimo Ciancimino through his lawyer, Francesca Russo, on 15 October 2009.\n\nThe will of Cosa Nostra, then commanded by Salvatore Riina, went through Vito Ciancimino with twelve requests to the Italian state contained indeed in the \"papello\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17392945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17392945", "title": "People of Northern Ireland", "text": "People of Northern Ireland\n\nThe people of Northern Ireland, or Northern Irish people, are all people born in Northern Ireland and having, at the time of their birth, at least one parent who is a British citizen, an Irish citizen or is otherwise entitled to reside in Northern Ireland without any restriction on their period of residence, under the Belfast Agreement.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, national identity is complex and diverse. The question of national identity was asked in the 2011 census with the three most common identities given being British, Northern Irish and Irish. Most people of Protestant background consider themselves British, while a majority of people of Catholic background consider themselves Irish. This has origins in the 17th century Plantation of Ulster, when mainly-Catholic Ulster was colonized by Protestant settlers from Great Britain.\n\nIn the early 20th century, most Ulster Protestants and Catholics saw themselves as Irish, although Protestants tended to have a much stronger sense of Britishness. With the onset of the Home Rule Crisis and events that followed, Protestants gradually began to abandon Irish identity, as Irishness and Britishness became more and more to be seen as mutually exclusive. In 1968 – just before the onset of the Troubles – 39% of Protestants described themselves as British and 20% described themselves as Irish, while 32% chose an Ulster identity. By 1978, following the worst years of the conflict, there had been a large shift in identity amongst Protestants, with the majority (67%) now calling themselves British and only 8% calling themselves Irish. This shift has not been reversed. Meanwhile, the majority of Catholics have continued to see themselves as Irish.\n\nFrom 1989, 'Northern Irish' began to be included as an identity choice in surveys, and its popularity has grown since then. Some organizations have promoted 'Northern Irish' identity as a way of overcoming sectarian division. In a 1998 survey of students, this was one of the main reasons they gave for choosing that identity, along with a desire to appear 'neutral'. However, surveys show that 'Northern Irish' identity tends to have different meanings for Catholics and Protestants. Surveys also show that those choosing 'Northern Irish' regard their national identity as less important than those choosing British and Irish.\n\nIn the 2011 census, respondents gave their national identity as follows:\n\nNational Identity by Religion\n\nDetail by Religion\n\nNational Identity by District\n\nNational identity by religion or religion brought up in for each district\n\nNational Identity by Age\n\nAccording to the Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey, individuals from Northern Ireland identify as (best preference choice):\n\n\nIn the 2007 Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey, the question was asked, \"\"thinking about each of these national identities in turn, how strongly do you feel yourself to be\" [Irish/British/Northern Irish/Ulster?]\" Individuals responded for each of the identities as follows:\n\nNorthern Irish\n\n\nBritish\n\n\nIrish\n\n\nUlster\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19212594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19212594", "title": "Personnel Administrator of Massachusetts v. Feeney", "text": "Personnel Administrator of Massachusetts v. Feeney\n\nPersonnel Administrator of Massachusetts v. Feeney, 442 U.S. 256 (1979), was a case heard by the Supreme Court of the United States. The decision upheld the constitutionality of a state law, giving hiring preference to veterans over nonveterans.\n\nThe law was challenged as violating the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution by a woman, who argued that the law discriminated on the basis of sex because so few women were veterans.\n\nA federal district court had struck down the law as unconstitutional based on its discriminatory impact: \"The District Court found that the absolute preference afforded by Massachusetts to veterans has a devastating impact upon the employment opportunities of women. Although it found that the goals of the preference were worthy and legitimate and that the legislation had not been enacted for the purpose of discriminating against women, the court reasoned that its exclusionary impact upon women was nonetheless so severe as to require the State to further its goals through a more limited form of preference.\"\n\n\"Upon remand, the District Court... concluded that a veterans' hiring preference is inherently nonneutral because it favors a class from which women have traditionally been excluded...\"\n\nJustice Potter Stewart wrote for the majority, joined by Chief Justice Warren Burger and Justices Byron White, Harry Blackmun, William Rehnquist, and John Paul Stevens. The Court declared the law was constitutional, pointing out the law's gender-neutral language, \"legitimate and worthy purposes,\" and legislative history. Stewart recognized the need for intermediate scrutiny in gender-based discrimination cases: \"any state law overtly or covertly designed to prefer males over females in public employment would require an exceedingly persuasive justification to withstand a constitutional challenge under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.\" He also recognized that \"when a neutral law has a disparate impact upon a group that has historically been the victim of discrimination, an unconstitutional purpose may still be at work.\"\n\nThe Court cited \"Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Corp.\" to apply a heightened form of review, a two-part test: \"When a statute gender-neutral on its face is challenged on the ground that its effects upon women are disproportionably adverse, a twofold inquiry is thus appropriate. The first question is whether the statutory classification is indeed neutral in the sense that it is not gender-based. If the classification itself, covert or overt, is not based upon gender, the second question is whether the adverse effect reflects invidious gender-based discrimination... [which is] 'the condition that offends the Constitution.'\"\n\nThe Court reversed the District Court after determining that there was no discriminatory purpose at work behind the law: \"The appellee... has simply failed to demonstrate that the law in any way reflects a purpose to discriminate on the basis of sex.\"\n\nJustice Thurgood Marshall dissented, joined by Justice William J. Brennan, Jr.. Marshall saw the law as unconstitutional based on implied motivation from its discriminatory impact. \"Where there is 'proof that a discriminatory purpose has been a motivating factor in the decision, . . . judicial deference is no longer justified.'\" Marshall further states that \"[t]o discern the purposes underlying facially neutral policies, this Court has therefore considered the degree, inevitability, and foreseeability of any disproportionate impact, as well as the alternatives reasonably available.\"\n\n\"In the instant case, the impact of the Massachusetts statute on women is undisputed. Any veteran with a passing grade on the civil service exam must be placed ahead of a nonveteran, regardless of their respective scores. The District Court found that, as a practical matter, this preference supplants test results as the determinant of upper level civil service appointments. Because less than 2% of the women in Massachusetts are veterans, the absolute preference formula has rendered desirable state civil service employment an almost exclusively male prerogative.\" Marshall pointed out the practical result of the preference law: \"In practice, this exemption, coupled with the absolute preference for veterans, has created a gender-based civil service hierarchy, with women occupying low-grade clerical and secretarial jobs and men holding more responsible and remunerative positions.\"\n\nJustice Marshall's dissent called for shifting the burden of proof from the individual to the state: \"Where the foreseeable impact of a facially neutral policy is so disproportionate, the burden should rest on the State to establish that sex-based considerations played no part in the choice of the particular legislative scheme.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24809916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24809916", "title": "Political mutilation in Byzantine culture", "text": "Political mutilation in Byzantine culture\n\nMutilation in the Byzantine Empire was a common method of punishment for criminals of the era but it also had a role in the empire's political life. Some disfigurements practised bore a secondary practical rationale as well. By blinding a rival, one would not only restrict their mobility but make it almost impossible for them to lead an army into battle, then an important part of taking control of the empire. Castration was also used to eliminate potential opponents. In the Byzantine Empire, for a man to be castrated meant that he was no longer a man—half-dead, \"life that was half death\". Castration also eliminated any chance of heirs being born to threaten either the emperor or the emperor's children's place at the throne. Other mutilations were the severing of the nose (rhinotomy) or the amputating of limbs.\n\nThe mutilation of political rivals by the emperor was deemed an effective way of side-lining from the line of succession a person who was seen as a threat. Castrated men were not seen as a threat, as no matter how much power they gained they could never take the throne, and numerous eunuchs were entrusted with high and confidential offices in the Byzantine court and administration. In Byzantine culture, the emperor was a reflection of heavenly authority. Since God was perfect, the emperor also had to be unblemished; any mutilation, especially facial wounds, would disqualify an individual from taking the throne. An exception was Justinian II (ὁ Ῥινότμητος, \"the slit-nosed\"), who had his nose cut off (Greek - \"rhinokopia\") when he was overthrown in 695 but was able to become emperor again, in 705.\n\nBlinding as a punishment for political rivals and a recognized penalty for treachery was established in 705, although Emperor Phocas used it earlier during his rule as well, becoming common practice from Heraclius onwards. Castration as a punishment for political rivals did not come into use until much later, becoming popular in the 10th and 11th centuries. An example is that of Basil Lekapenos, the illegitimate son of Emperor Romanos I Lekapenos, who was castrated when young. He gained enough power to become \"parakoimomenos\" and effective prime minister for three successive emperors, but could not assume the throne himself. The last to use this method voluntarily was Michael VIII Palaiologos, although some of his successors were forced to use it again by the Ottoman Sultans.\n\n"}
{"id": "22432807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22432807", "title": "Polygamy in Kenya", "text": "Polygamy in Kenya\n\nThe practice of what is usually called polygamy, enjoys de facto and de jure legality in Kenya. It is to be understood as polygyny, however. It states in the Kenyan constitution that a man can marry more than one wife.\n\nMarriage Bill 2007 was originally proposed in 1981, though was condemned by politicians for granting women \"too many rights\", such as the right to specify at the time of the marriage whether or not her husband may choose to take future wives. Most countries allowing polygamous marriages allow such a requirement. Subsequently, the bill was voted down. Revided in 2007, Marriage Bill 2007 faced similar concerns, and thus was not voted on. The bill was reintroduced in March 2009 as planned, addressing legislators concerns by eliminating a wife's right to stipulate monogamy or polygamy during contraction of the marriage. The bill is currently pending before the parliament and has faced both approval and condemntation from Christian and Muslim religious leaders in the country.\n\nIn March 2014, Kenya's Parliament passed a bill allowing men to marry multiple wives. Polygamy is common among traditional communities in Kenya, as well as among the country’s Muslim community.\n\nIn parliament, the proposed 2014 polygamy bill had initially given a wife the right to veto the husband's choice, but male members of parliament overcame party divisions to push through a text that dropped this clause. The passing of the bill caused angry female members of parliament to storm out of the late night vote on the polygamy legislation in protest.\n\nThe Bill was made legislation on 1 May 2014.\nThe Kenyan President described the act as one \"\"which consolidates various laws relating to marriage – provides procedures for separation and divorce. It also regulates the custody and maintenance of children in the event of separation and divorce\".\"\n\nThe act also defines marriage as \"\"the voluntary union of a man and a woman whether in a monogamous or polygamous union registered under the Act\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17097386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17097386", "title": "Public holidays in Namibia", "text": "Public holidays in Namibia\n"}
{"id": "28253596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28253596", "title": "Regional Australia", "text": "Regional Australia\n\nRegional Australia is a definition of the Australian Government designed to promote some areas of the country, especially for immigration. People who work in these areas can be granted extra points when applying for a resident visa. Working there while holding a working holiday visa may allow the person to have their visa renewed.\n\nAccording to the Australian Department of Immigration and Border Protection, all of Australia outside of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Wollongong, Newcastle and the Gold Coast is considered to be \"rural and regional Australia\".\n"}
{"id": "23926607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23926607", "title": "Rehman Dakait", "text": "Rehman Dakait\n\nSardar Abdul Rahman Baloch or Rehman Dakait() was a famous gangster based in Karachi's Lyari neighbourhood who formed the Peoples' Aman Committee. In urban Karachi, he is a mythical figure from the feared but not talked about underworld. Rehman Dakait is cousin of Sardar Uzair Jan Baloch who is in the custody of law enforcement.\n\nZulfiqar Mirza gave a statement in which he said that he was the one who killed Rehman Dakait but at the same moment he says that he feels bad for this action.\nZulfiqar Mirza also stated that he is responsible for this Action.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22135280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22135280", "title": "Seasonal migration in Niger", "text": "Seasonal migration in Niger\n\nSeasonal migration, locally called the \"Exode\", plays an important part of the economic and cultural life of the West African nation of Niger. While it is a common practice in many nations, Niger sees as much as a third of its rural population travel for seasonal labour, during the Sahelian nation's long dry season. Common patterns of seasonal travel have been built up over hundreds of years, and destinations and work vary by community and ethnic group.\n\nAbout 78% of the almost 14 million people in Niger are engaged in crop or livestock agriculture, many in small rural villages operating at subsistence levels. As a solution to both the variability of harvests in the dry Sahel and a way to earn currency, Nigerien communities often seek alternate and seasonal sources of income. Each year, during the dry season following harvest, men from many communities in rural Niger travel for temporary work.\n\nHistorically, different ethnic and regional communities have traveled to different areas. The patterns are in part inherited from precolonial trade networks; cross-border ethnic solidarities; colonial-era industrial, mining/and harvest projects and the attraction of areas with greater work potential, combined with communities of immigrants from the source ethnic group. Areas in the north of the country, where stock raising is more common, see around 20% of the total population migrate for season work, but in the south, dominated by small farming communities, as much as a third of the population travels for seasonal work.\n\nWhile some women to take part, most who take part in the Nigerien \"Exode\" are men (unmarried and married) between 15 and 40 years old. Certain communities have traditions of women traveling for seasonal work both domestically and abroad, but it is purely a male preserve in others. Most men travel outside Niger, but cities like Maradi and Niamey also will see a large seasonal influx seeking labor. The major destinations remain Nigeria, which shares large Hausa ethnic communities with Niger, and the former French colonies of Côte d'Ivoire, Togo, Benin and Burkina Faso. In southern destinations, agricultural work is available long after the season has passed in Niger, and cities offer a variety of casual labor. The famines of the 1960s–1980s Sahel drought helped to cement such seasonal migration patterns.\n\nMen from a community will often travel together to the same towns on each year, many to the same areas that their fathers had traveled. For many in rural communities that pursue subsistence farming, that provides most of their yearly cash income and is thus a crucial element of the rural economy, but it is not counted in the formal economy of Niger. Cash earned is partially spent abroad for necessities such as clothing, carried back at the end of the season, or sent via friends and clan or ethnic networks. A 2008 study found that not only most migrant workers never use of banks or money transfer systems but also the Exode period is often a time that men will take out informal loans against their expected seasonal earnings.\n\nMen on Exode may also bring back sexually transmitted diseases from their season abroad. That has been flagged as a potential vector for HIV/AIDS to enter Niger, which currently has one of the lowest infection rates in the world.\n\nMeasles outbreaks (largely among young children) still occur in Niger, in part because of the low vaccination rate and in part due from the transhumance seasonal migration of semi-nomadic herding populations. Sporadic outbreaks in Nigerien communities were found to have occurred beginning at the end of the rainy season, when many rural populations begin seasonal migration pattern, with traveling children often missing their vital second immunization booster against the disease.\n\nZarma-Songhai men often travel to Ghana and Burkina Faso, retracing a pattern of migration recorded from at least the 17th century, when Zarma soldiers were recruited to fight for the small kingdoms in what is now northern Ghana and southern Burkina Faso. The trade networks that resulted from the migration survived throughout the colonial period, and they also allowed Djerma a way of escaping to British-controlled Gold Coast Colony during times of particularly onerous French forced labour under the Indigénat as well as in times of drought in the 1910s, 1930s and 1940s.\n\nThe example of the Zarrma-Songhai of Niger's migration to the former Gold Coast Colony is memorably portrayed by French filmmaker Jean Rouch in his film \"Jaguar\" (1954-1955). For the film and accompanying academic study, Rouch joins an urban educated Songhai (Damouré Zika), a Sorko fisherman (Illo Gaoudel), and a Fula herdsman (Lam Ibrahima Dia) who travel from the Niger river town of Ayorou to Accra and Kumasi. The Songhai finds work with other Songhai in an Accra lumber market, the Sorko fishes the coast among Ewe fishermen to finance a small business in Accra, and the Fula finds a job selling perfumes with a family member in Kumasi market.\n\nHausa communities in Niger often send men south to Nigeria during the Exode, not only to majority-Hausa areas in the north of the nation but also to large cities such as Lagos that contain networks of Hausa immigrants. Hausa immigrant communities, as far afield as Ghana, also provide a focus for Nigerien seasonal migration. During the late pre-colonial and the early colonial period, Hausa communities also saw frequent labor migrations to escape rule by states linked to the Sokoto Caliphate to the south and the French to the north and west.\n\nFula communities, scattered across all of West Africa, provide a frame for Nigerien Wodaabe-Fula seasonal labor networks as far afield as Abidjan in Côte d'Ivoire and Lagos in Nigeria. Wodaabe women are more likely to travel for seasonal work migration than other groups, especially the Hausa people, and they often face discrimination in Nigerian communities to which they travel.\n\nTuareg communities in the north, like the pastoralist Fula, have their own established seasonal migration patterns revolving around moving their herds in transhumance cycles for pastures and markets. However, they too see seasonal labor migration. Algeria and Libya and south into Nigeria are the more common destinations, amongst Tuareg communities of the complex interrelated \"Kel\"s or clan structure. The successful export industry coming from the Aïr Mountains oases production of produce such as onions carries other local men as far south as Côte d'Ivoire. Tuareg men are often seen in cities across the Sahel region working in security, an evolution of the traditional self-imposed cultural preference for certain jobs by aristocratic or warrior caste Tuareg men.\n\nExode traditions also provide the basis for modern longer term emigration from Niger to the Maghreb and to Europe. Niger is a transit point for immigrants from throughout West Africa, traveling by truck and bus northward, especially to Libya, a frequent starting point in attempting to cross to Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "20603860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20603860", "title": "Sex industry", "text": "Sex industry\n\nThe sex industry (also called the sex trade) consists of businesses which either directly or indirectly provide sex-related products and services or adult entertainment. The industry includes activities involving direct provision of sex-related services, such as prostitution, strip clubs, host and hostess clubs and sex-related pastimes, such as pornography, sex-oriented men's magazines, sex movies, sex toys and fetish and BDSM paraphernalia. Sex channels for television and pre-paid sex movies for \"on demand\", are part of the sex industry, as are adult movie theaters, sex shops, and strip clubs.\n\nThe origins of the term \"sex industry\" are uncertain, but it appears to have arisen in the 1970s. A 1977 report by the Ontario Royal Commission on Violence in the Communications Industry (LaMarsh Commission) quoted author Peter McCabe as writing in \"Argosy\": \"Ten years ago the sex industry did not exist. When people talked of commercial sex they meant \"Playboy\".\" A 1976 article in \"The New York Times\" by columnist Russell Baker claimed that \"[M]ost of the problems created by New York City's booming sex industry result from the city's reluctance to treat it as an industry\", arguing why sex shops constituted an \"industry\", and should be treated as such by concentrating them in a single neighbourhood, suggesting the \"sex industry\" was not yet commonly recognised as such.\n\nProstitution is a main component of the sex industry and may take place in a brothel, at a facility provided by the prostitute, at a client's hotel room, in a parked car, or on the street. Often this is arranged through a pimp or an escort agency. Prostitution involves a prostitute or sex worker providing sexual services to a client. In some cases, the prostitute is at liberty to determine whether she or he will engage in a particular type of sexual activity, but forced prostitution and sexual slavery does exist in some places around the world.\n\nThe legality of prostitution and associated activities (soliciting, brothels, procuring) varies by jurisdiction. Yet even where it is illegal, a thriving underground business usually exists because of high demand and the booming revenue that can be made by pimps, brothel owners, escort agencies, and traffickers.\n\nThe premises where people come to engage in sexual activity with a prostitute is a brothel, though for legal or cultural reasons such premises may describe themselves as massage parlors, bars, strip clubs or by some other description. Sex work in a brothel is considered safer than street prostitution.\n\nProstitution and the operation of brothels is legal in some countries, but illegal in others. For instance, there are legal brothels in Nevada, USA, due to the legalization of prostitution in some areas of the state. In countries where prostitution and brothels are legal, brothels may be subject to many and varied restrictions. Forced prostitution is usually illegal as is prostitution by or with minors, though the age may vary. Some countries prohibit particular sex acts. In some countries, brothels are subject to strict planning restrictions and in some cases are confined to designated red-light districts. Some countries prohibit or regulate how brothels advertise their services, or they may prohibit the sale or consumption of alcohol on the premises. In some countries where operating a brothel is legal, some brothel operators may chose to operate illegally.\n\nSome men and women may travel away from their home to engage with local prostitutes, in a practice called sex tourism, though the destination pattern tends to differ between them. Male sex tourism can create or augment demand for sex services in the host countries, while female sex tourism tends not to use existing sex facilities. Like tourism in general, sex tourism can make a significant contribution to local economies, especially in popular urban centers. Sex tourism may arise as a result of stringent anti-prostitution laws in a tourist's home country, but can create social problems in the host country.\n\nBusinesses that offer prostitution services tend to cluster around military bases. The British naval port of Portsmouth had a flourishing local sex industry in the 19th century, and until the early 1990s there were large red light districts near American military bases in the Philippines. The Monto red-light district of Dublin, one of the largest in Europe, gained most of its custom from the British soldiers stationed in the city; indeed it collapsed after Irish independence was achieved and the soldiers left. The notorious Patpong entertainment district in Bangkok, and the city of Pattaya, Thailand, started as R&R locations for US troops serving in the Vietnam War in the early 1970s. Sex industries are also small but growing in several college towns.\n\nProstitution is extremely prevalent in Asia, particularly in Southeast Asian nations such as Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand. Due to the longstanding economic instability of many of these nations, increasing numbers of women have been forced to turn towards the sex industry there for work. According to Lin Lim, an International Labour Organization official who directed a study on prostitution in Southeast Asia, \"it is very likely that women who lose their jobs in manufacturing and other service sectors and whose families rely on their remittances may be driven to enter the sex sector.\" The sex industry of these countries has consequently grown to become their dominant commercial sector. Conversely, the sex industry in China has been revived by the nation's recent economic success. The nation's liberal economic policies in the early 1980s have been credited with revitalizing the sex industry as rural communities rapidly expand into highly developed urban centers. A typical example of this can be found in the city of Dalian. The city was declared a special economic zone in 1984; by the twenty-first century what had been a small fishing community developed an advanced commercial sector and a correspondingly large sex industry. A large portion of China's sex workers are immigrants from other Asian nations, such as Korea and Japan. In spite of these circumstances, most Asian countries do not have strong policies regarding prostitution. Their governments are challenged in this regard because of the differing contexts that surround prostitution, from voluntary and financially beneficial labor to virtual slavery. The increasing economic prominence of China and Japan have made these issues a global concern. As a result of Southeast Asia's lax policies regarding prostitution, the region has also become a hotbed for sex tourism, with a significant portion of this industry's clients being North American or European.\n\nThe sex industry employs millions of people worldwide, mainly women. These range from the sex worker, also called adult service provider (ASP) or adult sex provider, who provides sexual services, to a multitude of support personnel. Sex workers can be prostitutes, call girls, pornographic film actors, pornographic models, sex show performers, erotic dancers, striptease dancers, bikini baristas, telephone sex operators, cybersex operators, or amateur porn stars for online sex sessions and videos.\n\nIn addition, like any other industry, there are people who work in or service the sex industry as managers, film crews, photographers, website developers and webmasters, sales personnel, book and magazine writers and editors, etc. Some create business models, negotiate trade, make press releases, draw up contracts with other owners, buy and sell content, offer technical support, run servers, billing services, or payroll, organise trade shows and various events, do marketing and sales forecasts, provide human resources, or provide tax services and legal support.\n\nUsually, those in management or staff do not have direct dealings with sex workers, instead hiring photographers who have direct contact with the sex workers. Pornography is professionally marketed and sold to adult webmasters for distribution on the Internet.\n\nOther members of the sex industry include the hostesses that work in many bars in China. These hostesses are women who are hired by men to sit with them and provide them with company, which entails drinking and making conversation, while the men flirt and make sexual comments. A number of these hostesses also offer sexual services at offsite locations to the men who hire them. Although this is not done by every woman who works as a hostess in the bars of China, the hostesses are all generally labeled as \"grey women\". This means that while they are not seen as prostitutes, they are not considered suitable marriage partners for many men. Other woman who are included in the \"grey women\" category are the permanent mistresses or \"second wives\" that many Chinese businessmen have.\n\nThe Chinese government makes efforts to keep secret the fact that many of these hostesses are also prostitutes and make up a significant part of the sex industry. They do not want China's image in the rest of the world to become sullied. Hostesses are given a significant degree of freedom to choose whether or not they would like to service a client sexually, although a refusal does sometimes spark conflict.\n\nPornography is the portrayal of explicit sexual subject matter for the purposes of sexual arousal and erotic satisfaction. A \"pornographic model\" poses for pornographic photographs. A \"pornographic film actor\" or \"porn star\" performs in pornographic films. In cases where only limited dramatic skills are involved, a performer in pornographic films may be called a \"pornographic model\". Pornography can be provided to the consumer in a variety of media, ranging from books, magazines, postcards, photos, sculpture, drawing, painting, animation, sound recording, film, video, or video game. However, when sexual acts are performed for a live audience, by definition it is not pornography, as the term applies to the depiction of the act, rather than the act itself. Thus, portrayals such as sex shows and striptease are not classified as pornography.\n\nThe first home-PCs capable of network communication prompted the arrival of online services for adults in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The wide-open early days of the World Wide Web quickly snowballed into the dot-com boom, in-part fueled by an incredible global increase in the demand for and consumption of pornography and erotica. Around 2009, the U.S. porn industry's revenue of $10–15 billion a year was more than the combined revenue of professional sports and live music combined and roughly on par or above Hollywood's box office revenue.\n\nThere is mixed evidence on the social impact of pornography. Some insights come from meta-analyses synthesising data from prior research. A 2015 meta-analysis indicated that pornography consumption is correlated with sexual aggression. However, it is unknown if pornography promotes, reduces or has no effect on sexual aggression at an individual level, because this correlation may not be causal. In fact, counterintuitively, pornography has been found to reduce sexual aggression at a societal level. A 2009 review stated that all scientific investigations of increases in the availability of pornography show no change or a decrease in the level of sexual offending. The question of whether pornography consumption affects consumers' happiness was addressed by a 2017 meta-analysis. It concluded that men who consume pornography are less satisfied with some areas of their lives, but pornography consumption does not make a significant difference in other areas, or to the lives of women. Additionally, a sample of Americans revealed in 2017 that those who had viewed pornography were more likely to experience romantic relationship breakup than their non-pornography watching counterparts, and that the effect was more pronounced with men.\n\nWhile the legality of adult sexual entertainment varies by country, the use of children in the sex industry is illegal nearly everywhere in the world.\n\nCommercial sexual exploitation of children (CSEC) is the \"sexual abuse by the adult and remuneration in cash or kind to the child or a third person or persons. The child is treated as a sexual object and as a commercial object\".\n\nCSEC includes the prostitution of children, child pornography, child sex tourism and other forms of transactional sex where a child engages in sexual activities to have key needs fulfilled, such as food, shelter or access to education. It includes forms of transactional sex where the sexual abuse of children is not stopped or reported by household members, due to benefits derived by the household from the perpetrator. CSEC is prevalent in Asia and parts of Latin America.\n\nThailand, Cambodia, India, Brazil and Mexico have been identified as the primary countries where the commercial sexual exploitation of children takes place.\n\nAdult entertainment is entertainment intended to be viewed by adults only, and distinguished from family entertainment. The style of adult entertainment may be ribaldry or bawdry. Any entertainment that normally includes sexual content qualifies as adult entertainment, including sex channels for television and pre-paid sex movies for \"on demand\", as well as adult movie theaters, sex shops, and strip clubs. It also includes sex-oriented men's magazines, sex movies, sex toys and fetish and BDSM paraphernalia\n\nThe sex industry is very controversial, and many people, organizations and governments have strong moral objections to it, and, as a result, pornography, prostitution, striptease and other similar occupations are illegal in many countries.\n\nThe term anti-pornography movement is used to describe those who argue that pornography has a variety of harmful effects on society, such as encouragement of human trafficking, desensitization, pedophilia, dehumanization, exploitation, sexual dysfunction, and inability to maintain healthy sexual relationships.\n\nDolf Zillmann asserts that extensive viewing of pornographic material produces many sociological effects which he characterizes as unfavorable, including a decreased respect for long-term, monogamous relationships, and an attenuated desire for procreation. He claims that pornography can \"potentially undermine the traditional values that favor marriage, family, and children\" and that it depicts sexuality in a way which is not connected to \"emotional attachment, of kindness, of caring, and especially not of continuance of the relationship, as such continuance would translate into responsibilities\".\n\nAdditionally, some researchers claim that pornography causes unequivocal harm to society by increasing rates of sexual assault, a line of research which has been critiqued in \"The effects of Pornography: An International Perspective\" on external validity grounds, while others claim there is a correlation between pornography and a decrease of sex crimes.\n\nSome researchers have claimed that sex workers can benefit from their profession in terms of immigration status. In her essay \"Selling Sex for Visas: Sex Tourism as a Stepping-Stone to International Migration\" anthropologist Denise Brennan cited an example of prostitutes in the Dominican Republic resort town of Sosúa, where some female prostitutes marry their customers in order to immigrate to other countries and seek a better life. The customers are, however, the ones that hold the power in this situation as they can withhold or revoke the sex worker's visa, either denying them the ability to immigrate or forcing them to return to their country of origin. Some customers see sex workers from other countries as exotic commodities that can be fetishized or exploited. Sex workers are also at risk of judgement from family members and relatives for having been associated with the sex tourism industry.\n\nRecently, LGBTQ+ communities have welcomed the creation of sex work through a homosexual lens. However, there have also been repercussions within this community due to the brutal treatment of the workers. Many producers and proponents of pornography featuring gay actors claim that this work is liberating and offers them a voice in popular media while critics view it as a degradation of the eroticization of inequality and that advocates for this new line of cinema are only creating a new barrier for homosexuals to contend with.\n\nFeminism is divided on the issue of the sex industry. In her essay \"What is wrong with prostitution\", Carole Pateman makes the point that it is literally the objectification of woman. They are making their bodies an object that men can buy for a price. She also makes the point that prostitution and many other sex industries reinforces the idea of male ownership of a woman. On the other hand, some other feminists see the sex industry as empowering women. They could be seen as simply jobs. The woman who are working them are breaking free from social norms that would previously keep their sexuality under wraps as immoral.\nBased on these arguments, Sweden, Norway and Iceland have criminalized the buying of sexual services, while decriminalizing the selling of sexual services. (In other words, clients and pimps can be prosecuted for moneyed sexual transactions, but not prostitutes). Supporter of this model of legislation claim reduced illegal prostitution and human trafficking in these countries. Opponents dispute these claims.\n\nSome feminists, such as Gail Dines, are opposed to pornography, arguing that it is an industry which exploits women and which is complicit in violence against women, both in its production (where they charge that abuse and exploitation of women performing in pornography is rampant) and in its consumption (where they charge that pornography eroticizes the domination, humiliation, and coercion of women, and reinforces sexual and cultural attitudes that are complicit in rape and sexual harassment). They charge that pornography contributes to the male-centered objectification of women and thus to sexism. However, other feminists are opposed to censorship, and have argued against the introduction of anti-porn legislation in the United States—among them Betty Friedan, Kate Millett, Karen DeCrow, Wendy Kaminer and Jamaica Kincaid.\n\nThe sex industry often raises criticism because it is sometimes connected to criminal activities such as human trafficking, illegal immigration, drug abuse, and exploitation of children (child pornography, child prostitution). The sex industry also raises concerns about the spread of STDs.\n\n"}
{"id": "6608333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6608333", "title": "Silvertown explosion", "text": "Silvertown explosion\n\nThe Silvertown explosion occurred in Silvertown in West Ham, Essex (now part of the London Borough of Newham, in Greater London) on Friday, 19 January 1917 at 6.52 pm. The blast occurred at a munitions factory that was manufacturing explosives for Britain's World War I military effort. Approximately of trinitrotoluene (TNT) exploded, killing 73 people and injuring 400 more, as well as causing substantial damage in the local area. This was not the first, last, largest, or the most deadly explosion at a munitions facility in Britain during the war: an explosion at Faversham involving of TNT killed 105 in 1916, and the National Shell Filling Factory, Chilwell exploded in 1918, killing 137.\n\nThe factory was built in 1893 on the south side (River Thames side) of North Woolwich Road (now the A1020, nearly opposite Mill Road) by Brunner Mond, a forerunner of Imperial Chemical Industries, to produce soda crystals and caustic soda. Production of caustic soda ceased in 1912, which left part of the factory idle. Two years into the war, the Army was facing a crippling shell shortage. The War Office decided to use the factory's surplus capacity to purify TNT, a process more dangerous than manufacture itself, although the factory was in a highly populated area. Despite opposition from Brunner Mond, production of TNT began in September 1915. The method used was invented by Brunner Mond chief scientist F. A. Freeth, who believed the process to be \"manifestly very dangerous\". The plant continued to purify TNT at a rate of approximately per day until it was destroyed by the explosion.\n\nAnother plant, at Gadbrook, was built in 1916 and was producing TNT at a higher rate than the Silvertown factory, away from populated areas, with more stringent safety standards. Both factories were in full production.\n\nOn 19 January a fire broke out in the melt-pot room, and efforts to put it out were under way when approximately of TNT ignited at 6:52 pm. The TNT plant was destroyed instantly, as were many nearby buildings, including the Silvertown Fire Station. Much of the TNT was in railway goods wagons awaiting transport. Debris was strewn for miles around, with red-hot chunks of rubble causing fires. A gasometer gasholder was damaged on Greenwich Peninsula, creating a fireball from of gas; the holder was later repaired and remained until 1986. Several thousand pounds' worth of goods were also destroyed in nearby warehouses, estimated by the Port of London Authority to span . The chancel and church hall of the local church, St Barnabas', were destroyed, only to be replaced in 1926.\n\nSeventy-three people were killed (sixty-nine immediately, and four later from their injuries), and more than 400 injured. Up to 70,000 properties were damaged, 900 nearby ones destroyed or unsalvageably damaged; the cost was put at either £250,000 or £2.5 million. The comparatively low death toll for such a large blast was due to the time of day. The factories were largely empty of workers (there were fewer than forty in the TNT factory itself), but it was too early for the upper floors of houses (which sustained the worst of the flying debris damage) to be heavily populated. Also, it occurred on a Friday, when fewer people were around the factory. However, several professional firemen and volunteers fighting the earlier fire were killed or seriously injured in the explosion. For comparison, of TNT exploded at the National Shell Filling Factory, and killed 137 people; an explosion at Split Rock, New York in 1918 killed 50–52 people with of TNT.\n\nReportedly, the explosion also blew the glass out of windows in the Savoy Hotel and almost overturned a taxi in Pall Mall, London, the fires could be seen in Maidstone and Guildford, and the blast was heard up to away, including at Sandringham in Norfolk and along the Sussex coast. Although the blast was heard at a great distance, it was not heard uniformly across the whole intermediate distance, owing to atmospheric effects caused by refraction of the sound waves.\n\nThe emergency services immediately became involved in putting out the fires caused by the explosion, treating the wounded, and beginning to repair the damage caused. First-aid stations were set up in the streets to treat minor injuries. A Salvation Army rescue team was sent into the area under Catherine Bramwell-Booth, and the YMCA also rendered aid, including food and hot drinks. Thousands were left homeless, requiring temporary accommodation in schools, churches, and other similar places. 1,700 men were employed in the reconstruction task by February. £3m in aid was paid to those affected by the blast, equivalent to approximately £40m in 2007, of which £1m was paid to local businesses and factories, including £185,000 to Brunner-Mond.\n\nThe clear-up was under the direction of Sir Frank Baines, and a report in the \"Manchester Guardian\" of 12 February 1917 stated 750 to 1000 men were on site. Six hundred houses had been demolished by the explosion and 400 new ones were being built. Three hundred others had been repaired and many more re-slated.\n\nHenry Cavendish-Bentinck and Alfred Mond, son of the eponymous Ludwig of Brunner-Mond, debated in Parliament the living conditions of residents during the reconstruction; conditions were said to be \"gravely prejudicial to the public health\" and \"not fit for human habitation\". It was mooted that the residents should be relocated to a newly built garden city, rather than spending £1.3m rebuilding the present, dilapidated, area. John Joseph Jones, MP for Silvertown also maintained an interest in the disaster.\nThe Ministry of Munitions announced the explosion in the following day's newspaper, and ordered an investigation led by Sir Ernley Blackwell, published on 24 February 1917. A definite single cause of the explosion was not determined, invalidating early theories such as German sabotage or an air-raid, but it was found that the factory's site was inappropriate for the manufacture of TNT. Management and safety practices at the plant were also criticised: TNT was stored in unsafe containers, close to the plant and the risky production process. The report was not disclosed to the public until the 1950s. Other newspapers, including the \"New York Times\", also reported the explosion.\n\nOn 20 June 1917, Andrea Angel, the plant's chief chemist, who was attending to the initial fire, was posthumously awarded the Edward Medal (First Class) as was George Wenbourne. Police Constable Edward George Brown Greenoff was posthumously awarded the King's Police Medal, and is commemorated with a plaque on the Memorial to Heroic Self Sacrifice in Postman's Park, in central London.\n\nThe Silvertown explosion was not the final British munitions plant disaster of World War I. The National Shell Filling Factory, Chilwell, in Nottingham, exploded on 1 July 1918, killing 137 and injuring 250.\n\nThe former TNT factory's grounds are, , empty, not having been built upon since the explosion. The other part of the factory remained open after being repaired, until finally closing in 1961. This is also idle, . A memorial was commissioned by Brunner Mond in the 1920s inside the entrance to the factory location; it also serves as a memorial to World War I and World War II. For a time the memorial was covered up due to the development of Royal Wharf in Silvertown, but by September 2016 it had been moved to a new location close by. \n\nThe Silvertown Explosion is dramatised in the LWT series \"Upstairs, Downstairs\" (Series 4, Episode 9, \"Another Year\"). Scullery maid Ruby Finch had left her employer, the Bellamy family at 165 Eaton Place, to work in a munitions factory for the war-effort. The explosion is not only heard at the home of her former employer in Belgravia, but it literally rocks the house. The residents can see a great fire in the distance, \"down the river somewhere.\" Ruby makes her way back to the house and relates her account of being in the factory when the explosion occurred. She is in deep shock, and her face is covered in a sulphurous yellow residue.\n\nIn Pat Mills's comic-strip \"Charley's War\" the hero, Charley Bourne, is wounded on the Somme and returns home to Silvertown to be confronted by the aftermath of the explosion. Several subsequent strips depict a Zeppelin raid on the munitions factories in the area and deal with the residents' fears of a repeat of the disaster.\n\nIn the Charlie Higson Young Bond novel \"Double or Die\", Brunner Mond is one of the cryptic clues and reference is made to the explosion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49889962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49889962", "title": "Swedish Society for Nature Conservation", "text": "Swedish Society for Nature Conservation\n\nThe Swedish Society for Nature Conservation or (SSNC) () is a non-profit, non-partisan, Swedish environmental organization. It is the largest and oldest environmental society in Sweden, with 24 county branches and 270 municipality subdivisions. In 2016, it had 224,000 members.\n\nThe society was formed in 1909, by a number of professors and academics interested in natural history and environmental issues. One of the founders was botanist Rutger Sernander, who had a prominent position in the society until his death in 1944. Writer Sten Selander was chairman of the society for many years. Mikael Karlsson was chairman in 2002–2014, succeeded by Johanna Sandahl who had been vice chairman.\n\nDuring the first decades, the society mainly worked with protecting selected natural sites and endangered species. It also published a journal, \"Sveriges natur\" (\"Swedish nature\"). As new environmental problems developed, the work of the society has changed. The organization was instrumental in establishing large parts of modern environmental legislation in Sweden, as well as forming government agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nThe Society for Nature Conservation works strengthening public awareness for environmental issues, experiencing nature and love for nature, as well as influencing political decisions and interact with other international organizations. The society cooperates with other environmental organizations within the European Union and it is also twinning with organizations in the Far East, Africa and South America with support from the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida).\n\nThe organization manages the Alvin Fund jointly with the Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Ornithological Society. The fund contributes to projects involved in nature protection, primarily bird protection.\n\nA significant part of the society's work is to, through consumers, influence manufacturers and commerce to take a more active responsibility for the environment. The organization initiated the annual \"Miljövänliga veckan\" (\"Eco-friendly Week\") in 1990, and the ecolabels \"Bra Miljöval\" (\"Good Eco-choice\") and \"Naturens Bästa\" (\"Nature's Best\").\n\nThe symbol for the Society for Nature Conservation is a peregrine falcon, one of the species strongly affected by pollution. The society has helped save the peregrine in Sweden by contributing to breeding programs and surveillance of nests and habitats.\n\nThe Nature and Youth Sweden (\"Fältbiologerna\") is an independent youth organization formed in 1947, under the aegis of the Society for Nature Conservation.\n"}
{"id": "1127670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127670", "title": "T.H.E. Cat", "text": "T.H.E. Cat\n\nT.H.E. Cat is an American action drama that aired on NBC during the 1966–1967 television season.\n\nThe series was co-sponsored by R.J. Reynolds (Winston) and Lever Brothers and was created by Harry Julian Fink.\n\nRobert Loggia starred as the title character, Thomas Hewitt Edward Cat. The series preceded the 1968–1970 ABC television series \"It Takes a Thief\", which was also about a cat burglar who used his skills for good.\n\nOut of the night comes a man who saves lives at the risk of his own. Once a circus performer, an aerialist who refused the net. Once a cat burglar, a master among jewel thieves. Now a professional bodyguard. Primitive... savage... in love with danger. The Cat!\n\nThis was the intro to a series that was, for a variety of reasons, truly ahead of its time. It had a hero who was a reformed thief, having spent an unspecified term in prison, and of Gypsy heritage. In the mold of famed private eye Peter Gunn and the waterfront bar Mother's, Cat operated out of the Casa Del Gato (House of the Cat) in San Francisco, of which he was part owner.\n\nThe show was dark and moody, fitting the character, and was one of the first to use martial arts in a realistic way. (The others were \"The Green Hornet\", which premiered on ABC the same year, and the earlier 1960 syndicated series \"The Case of the Dangerous Robin\" starring Rick Jason.) This was unknown on TV at that time and rarely seen even in films (an exception was \"The Manchurian Candidate\", the first Hollywood movie to show martial arts in realistic fashion instead of the \"judo chops\" usually depicted).\n\nDespite rumors to the contrary, Cat was not an assassin. Nor did he work for San Francisco P.D., although he was brought in on certain operations (such as the pilot episode) where a specialist was called for (his SFPD contact was Captain McAllister, played by R. G. Armstrong). In the October 7 episode, \"Brotherhood\", Cat performed sniper duty during a hostage situation; this was before S.W.A.T. teams were initially created. Cat carried a .32 caliber Walther PP automatic and a balanced throwing knife strapped to his left forearm. He was lethal with both.\n\nSeries star Robert Loggia had previously played a character known as \"the Cat\" in the 1958–60 Walt Disney television miniseries \"The Nine Lives of Elfego Baca\", in which Loggia played Baca, an Old West Mexican-American lawman whose nickname was \"the Cat\", a fact viewers were reminded of each week in the series' theme song. The series ran for 26 episodes and was recut into a feature movie.\n\nAfter \"T.H.E. Cat\", Loggia, an actor with a long history of film and television credits, went on to star in a number of high-profile hit Hollywood films, including the Tom Hanks hit film \"Big\", the sci-fi film \"Independence Day\", \"An Officer and a Gentleman\", \"Scarface\", and Sylvester Stallone's \"Over the Top\". In 1985, Loggia was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of crusty private detective Sam Ransom in the thriller \"Jagged Edge\" and had the starring role in another NBC series, \"Mancuso, FBI\", for which he was nominated for an Emmy in 1989.\n\nAs of early 2018, there has been no official release of \"T.H.E. Cat\" on DVD.\n\n\n\nGuest stars: Chris Alcaide, Barbara Stuart, Steve Ihnat, Robert Duvall, Laura Devon, Yvonne Romain, Sorrell Booke, Diana Muldaur\n\nSeveral times he drove a Chevrolet Corvette. It was a mid-'60s convertible Stingray. It was customized with a bar that extended up and over the back of the driver. It was not, however, a roll bar—there were two flaps on the top portion. When the headlights were rolled to the \"on\" position, there were accents by each light that mimicked a cat's eye shape. Its body was painted black.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9406355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9406355", "title": "Ulli Beier", "text": "Ulli Beier\n\nChief Horst Ulrich Beier, known as Ulli Beier (30 July 1922 – 3 April 2011), was a German Jewish editor, writer and scholar, who had a pioneering role in developing literature, drama and poetry in Nigeria, as well as literature, drama and poetry in Papua New Guinea. His second wife, Georgina Beier, born in London, had a similarly instrumental role in stimulating the visual arts during their residencies in both Nigeria and Papua New Guinea.\n\nUlli Beier was born to a Jewish family in Glowitz, Weimar Germany (modern Główczyce, Poland) in July 1922. His father was a medical doctor and an appreciator of art, who reared his son to embrace the arts. After the Nazi party's rise to power in the 1930s, his father was forced to close his medical practice. The Beiers, who were non-practising Jews, left for Palestine. \n\nIn Palestine, while his family were briefly detained as enemy aliens by the British authorities, Ulli Beier earned a BA as an external student from the University of London. He later moved to London to earn a graduate degree in Phonetics. He found veterans were being given precedence in academic jobs and searched widely for a position.\n\nHe married the Austrian artist Susanne Wenger. In 1950 they both moved to Nigeria, where Ulli Beier had been hired at the University of Ibadan to teach Phonetics. They divorced in the early 1960s.\n\nBeier married the artist, Georgina Betts, an Englishwoman from London who was working in Nigeria. In 1966 when the civil war broke out between Biafra and the federal government, they left the country and moved to Papua New Guinea.\n\nWhile at the university, Beier transferred from the Phonetics department to the Extra-Mural Studies department. There he became interested in traditional Yoruba culture and arts. Though a teacher at Ibadan, he ventured beyond it, living in the cities of Ede, Ilobu and Osogbo, to learn more about the Yoruba communities. Due to his subsequent anthropological work among the members of the clans that are native to these places, he was awarded Yoruba honorary chieftaincies. In 1956, after visiting the First Congress of Black Writers and Artists in Paris organized by \"Présence Africaine\" at the Sorbonne, Ulli Beier returned to Ibadan with more ideas.\n\nIn 1957 he founded the magazine \"Black Orpheus\". Its name was inspired by \"Orphée Noir\", an essay that he had read by the French intellectual Jean-Paul Sartre. The first African literary journal in English, it quickly became the leading venue for publishing contemporary Nigerian authors. It became known for its innovative works and literary excellence, and was widely acclaimed. Later in 1961, Beier co-founded the Mbari Artists and Writers Club, Ibadan, a place for new writers, dramatists and artists, to meet and perform their work. Among the young writers involved with it in the exciting early years of Nigerian independence were Chinua Achebe and Wole Soyinka. In 1962, with the dramatist Duro Ladipo, he co-founded Mbari-Mbayo, Osogbo. \n\nUlli Beier was also known for his work in translating traditional Nigerian literary works into English. He emerged as one of the scholars who introduced African writers to a large international audience. He translated the plays of such Nigerian dramatists as Duro Ladipo and published \"Modern Poetry\" (1963), an anthology of African poems. He also wrote his own plays, published under the name \"Obotunde Ijimere\". \n\nBeier and Wenger divorced. In 1966, he and his second wife, the artist Georgina Betts from London, left Nigeria during the civil war to work in Papua New Guinea. Beier intermittently returned to Nigeria for brief periods. While in Papua New Guinea, he fostered budding writers at the University of Papua New Guinea, and his wife Georgina Beier continued the work she had been doing in Nigeria, recognising and encouraging New Guineans in their visual art. \n\nBeier found international venues for taking the native artwork to the world. In New Guinea, he founded the literary periodical \"Kovave: A Journal of New Guinea literature\". It also carried reproductions of works by Papua New Guinean artists, including Timothy Akis and Mathias Kauage. His efforts have been described as significant in facilitating the emergence of Papua New Guinean literature. While in Papua New Guinea, Beier encouraged Albert Maori Kiki to record his autobiography, which Beier transcribed and edited. The book, \"Ten Thousand Years in a Lifetime\", was published in 1968.\n\nIn the early 1980s Beier returned for a time to Germany, where he founded and directed the Iwalewa Haus, an art centre at the University of Bayreuth.\n\nBeier lived in Sydney, Australia, with his wife Georgina Beier. He died at home in the Annandale neighborhood, at the age of 88, on 3 April 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40906359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40906359", "title": "Uruguayans in Spain", "text": "Uruguayans in Spain\n\nUruguayans in Spain are people born in Uruguay who emigrated to Spain. As of 2011, there were over 40,000 Uruguayans living in Spain.\n\nTwo centuries ago, Uruguay used to be part of the Spanish Empire. Since attaining independence, Uruguay has always considered Spain as the \"Madre Patria\", and cultivated intense cultural and economical links between both countries. During the last decades of the 20th century and first years of the 21st, there have been thousands of Uruguayans travelling to live and work in Spain, many of them thanks to their Spanish passports.\n\nDuring the civic-military dictatorship of Uruguay (1973-1985), some expatriates spent their exile years in Spain. There are as well a number of Spanish-born people of Uruguayan descent.\n\nCurrent data put the figure of Uruguayans in Spain at 80,000.\n\nExpatriate Uruguayans have their own associations in Spain, notably the Uruguayan Center of Madrid and several Consultative Councils. Official information consider that there are at least 50 Uruguayan-run organizations in Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52113505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52113505", "title": "Yoruba Arts Festival", "text": "Yoruba Arts Festival\n\nThe annual Yoruba Arts Festival is an annual event which takes place in Hackney,London, United Kingdom.\n\nThe 9th edition of the festival returns to Clissold Park, Hackney, London on Saturday the 21st and Sunday 22nd of July 2018 celebrating the rich, colorful and vibrant Arts and Culture of the Yoruba's from around the world. Featuring Cultural performances, Workshops, Arts and crafts, Competitions, African Market, African food and live music from artists and bands dhowcasing the wide variety of popular Yoruba music such as Afrobeats, Juju, Highlife, Apala and Jazz. \n\nThe Yoruba Arts festival returns for its 10th year at Clissold Park on the 15th & 16th of July 2019. The event is organised, produced and funded by the Yoruba Foundation, a UK registered non-profit charity whose main objectives are to promote Yoruba Arts and Culture through free community and charitable programs.\n"}
