{"id": "50878167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50878167", "title": "AFD China Intellectual Property Law Office", "text": "AFD China Intellectual Property Law Office\n\nAFD China Intellectual Property Law Office (in Chinese 北京安信方达知识产权代理有限公司) is a privately owned IP law firm based in Beijing, China, with a client-supporting team in Maryland, U.S.A. The firm tops the volume statistics of the annual filings of Chinese invention patent applications, Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) international applications and overseas patent applications for domestic clients. It provides the full range of prosecution services, and shines brightest in national phase and PCT applications.\n\nAFD China was founded in 2002 by patent attorney Xia Zheng.\n\nAs of 2016, AFD China has about 250 employees, including 69 patent attorneys, 25 apprentice patent attorneys, 37 patent engineers, 3 trademark attorneys, 7 trademark agents, and 5 attorneys-at-law.\n\nIn addition to serving as AFD China’s lead attorney and president, Zheng serves as a director of the All-China Patent Attorneys Association, a standing director of the Beijing Patent Attorneys Association and a director of the Beijing Intellectual Property Association. She is a National IP Talent named by the State Intellectual Property Office of China in 2016, an IP Star by Managing Intellectual Property since 2015, and was honored for her significant contributions to the Chinese patent and IP industries by the State Intellectual Property Office of China in 2010.\n\nAFD China is consistently recommended as a top Chinese patent and trademark law firm by \"Managing IP\" magazine, IAM Patent 1000, Asia IP, and Legal 500. The firm is also recognized by the local IP Office, IP attorneys association and other organizations from time to time. Its patent litigation case was promulgated as one of the 2014 Exemplary IPR Protection Case by the Beijing Higher Court.\n"}
{"id": "55394787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55394787", "title": "Anti-terrorism Act, 2009", "text": "Anti-terrorism Act, 2009\n\nAnti-terrorism Act, 2009 is a Bangladeshi legislative act that is designed to specifically target terrorism.\n\nThe Law was formulated by the Grand Alliance government led by Bangladesh Awami League in 2009. The law was given retrospective effect from 11 June 2008. The law was designed to target terrorists and financial institutes used by them. In 2012 amendment changed the highest punishment under the act to death penalty. In 2013 another amendment allowed for social media content to be entered as evidence.\n\nHuman Rights group, Odhikar, has called for the law to be repelled describing the act as a total for repression on those opposed to the government. Cases under this act need government approval for trials to begin, which are sometimes delayed. Thus effectively placing the cases in legal limbo.\n"}
{"id": "10038314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10038314", "title": "Arizona flagstone", "text": "Arizona flagstone\n\nArizona flagstone is composed of rounded grains of quartz which are cemented by silica. Other minerals are present, mostly as thin seams of clay, mica, secondary calcite, and gypsum. Arizona flagstone is mainly quarried from the Coconino and Prescott National Forests.\n\nAlthough flagstone and dimension stone are quarried from all over the state of Arizona, the town of Ash Fork, Arizona, is well known as the center of production and has proclaimed itself \"The Flagstone Capital of the World\". Extensive outcrops of Arizona flagstone are also found in Mohave, Coconino, Yavapai, Navajo, Apache, and Gila counties.\n\n"}
{"id": "45445339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45445339", "title": "Australian greyhound racing live baiting scandal", "text": "Australian greyhound racing live baiting scandal\n\nThe Australian greyhound racing live baiting scandal is a series of events that occurred in at least three Australian states where live baiting of racing greyhounds was exposed on ABC TV and in \"The Sydney Morning Herald\". On 16 February 2015, the Australian television current affairs program \"Four Corners\" revealed the use of live piglets, possums and rabbits to train racing greyhounds had been occurring over some years, despite self-regulatory efforts to address the issue. The revelation led to suspensions, inquiries, widespread condemnation of the practice, and, following an inquiry, to the banning of greyhound racing in New South Wales from July 2017, and consequently, the Australian Capital Territory as well. The NSW ban was reversed on 11 October 2016, with conditions.\n\nGreyhound racing is an organized, competitive sport in which greyhound dogs are raced around a track, chasing a mechanical lure over a fixed distance. Historically, the sport is based on the principle of coursing. It is a legalised form of gambling in many jurisdictions. Some greyhound trainers believe that greyhounds will chase better, and hence have a greater chance of winning the race, if they have chased and caught a live animal during training. The live bait animal is either attached to the mechanical lure, dragged in front of the greyhound, or thrown to it. The greyhound will often maim or kill the bait animal, resulting in death.\n\nThe greyhound industry and the law provide harsh penalties for the use of live baits in training. Nevertheless, accusations of live baiting in the Australian greyhound industry have arisen from time to time.\n\nOn 16 February 2015, \"Four Corners\" exposed live baiting on training tracks in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. The program included graphic surveillance footage, filmed by pro-animal activists, that showed various small animals being tied to mechanical lures where they were chased, caught and attacked by greyhounds for up to 30 minutes. Some animals had young taken and given to the dogs. The program also included interviews with many leading greyhound trainers and administrators who denied the practice of live baiting; some of them were subsequently shown to be involved in the live baiting.\n\nThe program’s graphic content drew immediate and widespread criticism from animal protection groups and the wider community.\n\nNational Party member of parliament and minister Barnaby Joyce criticised activists who apparently trespassed to record video of live baiting by trainers.\n\n\n\nOn 2 August a rally opposing the ban was held at Hyde Park, Sydney. On 5 August 2016 an alliance of greyhound racing groups took the matter to the Supreme Court of NSW in pursuit of a declaration that the inquiry report was invalid. After running newspaper advertisements supporting the ban, the NSW Government was criticised by Brenton Scott, the chief executive of the Greyhound Breeders, Owners and Trainers Association. Luke Foley, NSW Labor leader, led his party's opposition to the ban. In August 2016 legislation was introduced into the NSW Legislative Assembly and three National MPs crossed the floor to vote against the government; with one Liberal MP abstaining from the vote. Despite these protests, the legislation passed the lower house.\n\nOn 11 October 2016 the reversal of the NSW ban was announced, with several conditions. As of March 2017, legislation to reverse the ban has not come before the NSW Parliament and there has been no greyhound racing scheduled in NSW beyond 30 June 2017.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695", "title": "Bankruptcy", "text": "Bankruptcy\n\nBankruptcy is a legal status of a person or other entity who cannot repay debts to creditors. In most jurisdictions, bankruptcy is imposed by a court order, often initiated by the debtor.\n\nBankruptcy is not the only legal status that an insolvent person may have, and the term \"bankruptcy\" is therefore not a synonym for insolvency. In some countries, such as the United Kingdom, bankruptcy is limited to individuals; other forms of insolvency proceedings (such as liquidation and administration) are applied to companies. In the United States, \"bankruptcy\" is applied more broadly to formal insolvency proceedings. In France, the cognate French word \"banqueroute\" is used solely for cases of fraudulent bankruptcy, whereas the term \"faillite\" (cognate of \"failure\") is used for bankruptcy in accordance with the law.\n\nThe word \"bankruptcy\" is derived from Italian \"banca rotta\", meaning \"broken bank\", which may stem from a widespread custom in the Republic of Genoa of breaking a moneychanger's bench or counter to signify his insolvency, or which may be only a figure of speech.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, bankruptcy did not exist. If a man owed and he could not pay, he and his wife, children or servants were forced into \"debt slavery\", until the creditor recouped losses through their physical labour. Many city-states in ancient Greece limited debt slavery to a period of five years; debt slaves had protection of life and limb, which regular slaves did not enjoy. However, servants of the debtor could be retained beyond that deadline by the creditor and were often forced to serve their new lord for a lifetime, usually under significantly harsher conditions. An exception to this rule was Athens, which by the laws of Solon forbade enslavement for debt; as a consequence, most Athenian slaves were foreigners (Greek or otherwise).\n\nThe Statute of Bankrupts of 1542 was the first statute under English law dealing with bankruptcy or insolvency. Bankruptcy is also documented in East Asia. According to al-Maqrizi, the Yassa of Genghis Khan contained a provision that mandated the death penalty for anyone who became bankrupt three times.\n\nA failure of a nation to meet bond repayments has been seen on many occasions. Philip II of Spain had to declare four state bankruptcies in 1557, 1560, 1575 and 1596. According to Kenneth S. Rogoff, \"Although the development of international capital markets was quite limited prior to 1800, we nevertheless catalog the various defaults of France, Portugal, Prussia, Spain, and the early Italian city-states. At the edge of Europe, Egypt, Russia, and Turkey have histories of chronic default as well.\"\n\nThe principal focus of modern insolvency legislation and business debt restructuring practices no longer rests on the elimination of insolvent entities, but on the remodeling of the financial and organizational structure of debtors experiencing financial distress so as to permit the rehabilitation and continuation of the business.\n\nFor private households, some argue that it is insufficient to merely dismiss debts after a certain period . It is important to assess the underlying problems and to minimize the risk of financial distress to re-occur. It has been stressed that debt advice, a supervised rehabilitation period, financial education and social help to find sources of income and to improve the management of household expenditures must be equally provided during this period of rehabilitation (Refiner \"et al.\", 2003; Gerhardt, 2009; Frade, 2010). In most EU Member States, debt discharge is conditioned by a partial payment obligation and by a number of requirements concerning the debtor's behavior. In the United States (US), discharge is conditioned to a lesser extent. The spectrum is broad in the EU, with the UK coming closest to the US system (Reifner et al., 2003; Gerhardt, 2009; Frade, 2010). The Other Member States do not provide the option of a debt discharge. Spain, for example, passed a bankruptcy law (\"ley concurs\") in 2003 which provides for debt settlement plans that can result in a reduction of the debt (maximally half of the amount) or an extension of the payment period of maximally five years (Gerhardt, 2009), but it does not foresee debt discharge.\n\nIn the US, it is very difficult to discharge federal or federally guaranteed student loan debt by filing bankruptcy. Unlike most other debts, those student loans may be discharged only if the person seeking discharge establishes specific grounds for discharge under the \"Brunner\" test, under which the court evaluates three factors:\nEven if a debtor proves all three elements, a court may permit only a partial discharge of the student loan. Student loan borrowers may benefit from restructuring their payments through a Chapter 13 bankruptcy repayment plan, but few qualify for discharge of part or all of their student loan debt.\n\nBankruptcy fraud is a white-collar crime. While difficult to generalize across jurisdictions, common criminal acts under bankruptcy statutes typically involve concealment of assets, concealment or destruction of documents, conflicts of interest, fraudulent claims, false statements or declarations, and fee fixing or redistribution arrangements. Falsifications on bankruptcy forms often constitute perjury. Multiple filings are not in and of themselves criminal, but they may violate provisions of bankruptcy law. In the U.S., bankruptcy fraud statutes are particularly focused on the mental state of particular actions. Bankruptcy fraud is a federal crime in the United States.\n\nBankruptcy fraud should be distinguished from \"strategic bankruptcy\", which is not a criminal act since it creates a real (not a fake) bankruptcy state. However, it may still work against the filer.\n\nAll assets must be disclosed in bankruptcy schedules whether or not the debtor believes the asset has a net value. This is because once a bankruptcy petition is filed, it is for the creditors, not the debtor, to decide whether a particular asset has value. The future ramifications of omitting assets from schedules can be quite serious for the offending debtor. In the United States, a closed bankruptcy may be reopened by motion of a creditor or the U.S. trustee if a debtor attempts to later assert ownership of such an \"unscheduled asset\" after being discharged of all debt in the bankruptcy. The trustee may then seize the asset and liquidate it for the benefit of the (formerly discharged) creditors. Whether or not a concealment of such an asset should also be considered for prosecution as fraud or perjury would then be at the discretion of the judge or U.S. Trustee.\n\nIn Argentina the national Act \"24.522 de Concursos y Quiebras\" regulates the Bankruptcy and the Reorganization of the individuals and companies, public entities are not included.\n\nIn Australia, bankruptcy is a status which applies to individuals and is governed by the federal \"Bankruptcy Act 1966\". Companies do not go bankrupt but rather go into liquidation or administration, which is governed by the federal \"Corporations Act 2001\".\n\nIf a person commits an act of bankruptcy, then a creditor can apply to the Federal Circuit Court or the Federal Court for a sequestration order. Acts of bankruptcy are defined in the legislation, and include the failure to comply with a bankruptcy notice. A bankruptcy notice can be issued where, among other cases, a person fails to pay a judgment debt. A person can also seek to have themself declared bankrupt by lodging a debtor's petition with the \"Official Receiver\", which is the Australian Financial Security Authority (AFSA).\n\nTo declare bankruptcy or for a creditor to lodge a petition, the debt must be at least $5,000.\n\nAll bankrupts must lodge a Statement of Affairs document with AFSA, which includes important information about their assets and liabilities. A bankruptcy cannot be annulled until this document has been lodged.\n\nOrdinarily, a bankruptcy lasts three years from the filing of the Statement of Affairs with AFSA.\n\nA Bankruptcy Trustee (in most cases, the Official Receiver) is appointed to deal with all matters regarding the administration of the bankrupt estate. The Trustee's job includes notifying creditors of the estate and dealing with creditor inquiries; ensuring that the bankrupt complies with their obligations under the Bankruptcy Act; investigating the bankrupt's financial affairs; realising funds to which the estate is entitled under the Bankruptcy Act and distributing dividends to creditors if sufficient funds become available.\n\nFor the duration of their bankruptcy, all bankrupts have certain restrictions placed upon them. For example, a bankrupt must obtain the permission of their trustee to travel overseas. Failure to do so may result in the bankrupt being stopped at the airport by the Australian Federal Police. Additionally, a bankrupt is required to provide their trustee with details of income and assets. If the bankrupt does not comply with the Trustee's request to provide details of income, the trustee may have grounds to lodge an Objection to Discharge, which has the effect of extending the bankruptcy for a further five years.\n\nThe realisation of funds usually comes from two main sources: the bankrupt's assets and the bankrupt's wages. There are certain assets that are protected, referred to as \"protected assets\". These include household furniture and appliances, tools of the trade and vehicles up to a certain value. All other assets of value are sold. If a house or car is above a certain value, the bankrupt can buy the interest back from the estate in order to keep the asset. If the bankrupt does not do this, the interest vests in the estate and the trustee is able to take possession of the asset and sell it.\n\nThe bankrupt must pay income contributions if their income is above a certain threshold. If the bankrupt fails to pay, the trustee can issue a notice to garnishee the bankrupt's wages. If that is not possible, the Trustee may seek to extend the bankruptcy for a further five years.\n\nBankruptcies can be annulled prior to the expiration of the normal three-year period if all debts are paid out in full. Sometimes a bankrupt may be able to raise enough funds to make an Offer of Composition to creditors, which would have the effect of paying the creditors some of the money they are owed. If the creditors accept the offer, the bankruptcy can be annulled after the funds are received.\n\nAfter the bankruptcy is annulled or the bankrupt has been automatically discharged, the bankrupt's credit report status is shown as \"discharged bankrupt\" for some years. The maximum number of years this information can be held is subject to the retention limits under the Privacy Act. How long such information is on a credit report may be shorter, depending on the issuing company, but the report must cease to record that information based on the criteria in the Privacy Act.\n\nIn Brazil, the Bankruptcy Law (11.101/05) governs court-ordered or out-of-court receivership and bankruptcy and only applies to public companies (publicly traded companies) with the exception of financial institutions, credit cooperatives, consortia, supplementary scheme entities, companies administering health care plans, equity companies and a few other legal entities. It does not apply to state-run companies.\n\nCurrent law covers three legal proceedings. The first one is bankruptcy itself (\"Falência\"). Bankruptcy is a court-ordered liquidation procedure for an insolvent business. The final goal of bankruptcy is to liquidate company assets and pay its creditors.\n\nThe second one is Court-ordered Restructuring (\"Recuperação Judicial\"). The goal is to overcome the business crisis situation of the debtor in order to allow the continuation of the producer, the employment of workers and the interests of creditors, leading, thus, to preserving company, its corporate function and develop economic activity. It's a court procedure required by the debtor which has been in business for more than two years and requires approval by a judge.\n\nThe Extrajudicial Restructuring (\"Recuperação Extrajudicial\") is a private negotiation that involves creditors and debtors and, as with court-ordered restructuring, also must be approved by courts.\n\nBankruptcy, also referred to as insolvency in Canada, is governed by the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act and is applicable to businesses and individuals, for example, Target Canada, the Canadian subsidiary of the Target Corporation, the second-largest discount retailer in the United States filed for bankruptcy in January 15, 2015, and closed all of its stores by April 12. The office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy, a federal agency, is responsible for overseeing that bankruptcies are administered in a fair and orderly manner by all licensed Trustees in Canada.\n\nTrustees in bankruptcy, 1041 individuals licensed to administer insolvencies, bankruptcy and proposal estates and are governed by the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act of Canada.\n\nBankruptcy is filed when a person or a company becomes insolvent and cannot pay their debts as they become due and if they have at least $1,000 in debt.\n\nIn 2011, the Superintendent of bankruptcy reported that trustees in Canada filed 127,774 insolvent estates. Consumer estates were the vast majority, with 122 999 estates. The consumer portion of the 2011 volume is divided into 77,993 bankruptcies and 45,006 consumer proposals. This represented a reduction of 8.9% from 2010. Commercial estates filed by Canadian trustees in 2011 4,775 estates, 3,643 bankruptcies and 1,132 Division 1 proposals. This represents a reduction of 8.6% over 2010.\n\nSome of the duties of the trustee in bankruptcy are to:\n\nCreditors become involved by attending creditors' meetings. The trustee calls the first meeting of creditors for the following purposes:\n\n\nIn Canada, a person can file a consumer proposal as an alternative to bankruptcy. A consumer proposal is a negotiated settlement between a debtor and their creditors.\n\nA typical proposal would involve a debtor making monthly payments for a maximum of five years, with the funds distributed to their creditors. Even though most proposals call for payments of less than the full amount of the debt owing, in most cases, the creditors accept the deal—because if they do not, the next alternative may be personal bankruptcy, in which the creditors get even less money. The creditors have 45 days to accept or reject the consumer proposal. Once the proposal is accepted by both the creditors and the Court, the debtor makes the payments to the Proposal Administrator each month (or as otherwise stipulated in their proposal), and the general creditors are prevented from taking any further legal or collection action. If the proposal is rejected, the debtor is returned to his prior insolvent state and may have no alternative but to declare personal bankruptcy.\n\nA consumer proposal can only be made by a debtor with debts to a maximum of $250,000 (not including the mortgage on their principal residence). If debts are greater than $250,000, the proposal must be filed under Division 1 of Part III of the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act. An Administrator is required in the Consumer Proposal, and a Trustee in the Division I Proposal (these are virtually the same although the terms are not interchangeable). A Proposal Administrator is almost always a licensed trustee in bankruptcy, although the Superintendent of Bankruptcy may appoint other people to serve as administrators.\n\nIn 2006, there were 98,450 personal insolvency filings in Canada: 79,218 bankruptcies and 19,232 consumer proposals.\n\nThe People's Republic of China legalized bankruptcy in 1986, and a revised law that was more expansive and complete was enacted in 2007.\n\nBankruptcy in Ireland applies only to natural persons. Other insolvency processes including liquidation and examinership are used to deal with corporate insolvency.\n\nIrish bankruptcy law has been the subject of significant comment, from both government sources and the media, as being in need of reform. Part 7 of the Civil Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2011 has started this process and the government has committed to further reform.\n\nThe Parliament of India in the first week of May 2016 passed Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (New Code). Earlier a clear law on corporate bankruptcy did not exist, even though individual bankruptcy laws have been in existence since 1874. The earlier law in force was enacted in 1920 called the Provincial Insolvency Act.\n\nThe legal definitions of the terms bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation and dissolution are contested in the Indian legal system. There is no regulation or statute legislated upon bankruptcy which denotes a condition of inability to meet a demand of a creditor as is common in many other jurisdictions.\n\nWinding up of companies was in the jurisdiction of the courts which can take a decade even after the company has actually been declared insolvent. On the other hand, supervisory restructuring at the behest of the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction is generally undertaken using receivership by a public entity.\n\nDutch bankruptcy law is governed by the Dutch Bankruptcy Code (\"Faillissementswet\"). The code covers three separate legal proceedings. \n\nFederal Law No. 127-FZ \"On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)\" dated 26 October 2002 (as amended) (the \"Bankruptcy Act\"), replacing the previous law in 1998, to better address the above problems and a broader failure of the action.\nRussian insolvency law is intended for a wide range of borrowers: individuals and companies of all sizes, with the exception of state-owned enterprises, government agencies, political parties and religious organizations. There are also special rules for insurance companies, professional participants of the securities market, agricultural organizations and other special laws for financial institutions and companies in the natural monopolies in the energy industry.\nFederal Law No. 40-FZ \"On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)\" dated 25 February 1999 (as amended) (the \"Insolvency Law of Credit Institutions\") contains special provisions in relation to the opening of insolvency proceedings in relation to the credit company. Insolvency Provisions Act, credit organizations used in conjunction with the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act.\n\nBankruptcy law provides for the following stages of insolvency proceedings:\n• Monitoring procedure or Supervision (nablyudeniye);\n• The economic recovery (finansovoe ozdorovleniye);\n• External control (vneshneye upravleniye);\n• Liquidation (konkursnoye proizvodstvo) and\n• Amicable Agreement (mirovoye soglasheniye).\n\nThe main face of the bankruptcy process is the insolvency officer (trustee in bankruptcy, bankruptcy manager). At various stages of bankruptcy, he must be determined: the temporary officer in Monitoring procedure, external manager in External control, the receiver or administrative officer in The economic recovery, the liquidator. During the bankruptcy trustee in bankruptcy (insolvency officer) has a decisive influence on the movement of assets (property) of the debtor - the debtor and has a key influence on the economic and legal aspects of its operations.\n\nUnder Swiss law, bankruptcy can be a consequence of insolvency. It is a court-ordered form of debt enforcement proceedings that applies, in general, to registered commercial entities only. In a bankruptcy, all assets of the debtor are liquidated under the administration of the creditors, although the law provides for debt restructuring options similar to those under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy code.\n\nIn Sweden, bankruptcy (Swedish: konkurs) is a formal process that may involve a company or individual. It is not the same as insolvency, which is inability to pay debts that should have been paid. A creditor or the company itself can apply for bankruptcy. An external bankruptcy manager takes over the company or the assets of the person, and tries to sell as much as possible. A person or a company in bankruptcy can not access its assets (with some exceptions).\n\nThe formal bankruptcy process is rarely carried out for individuals. Creditors can claim money through the Enforcement Administration anyway, and creditors do not usually benefit from the bankruptcy of individuals because there are costs of a bankruptcy manager which has priority. Unpaid debts remain after bankruptcy for individuals. People who are deeply in debt can obtain a debt arrangement procedure (Swedish: skuldsanering). On application, they obtain a payment plan under which they pay as much as they can for five years, and then all remaining debts are cancelled. Debts that derive from a ban on business operations (issued by court, commonly for tax fraud or fraudulent business practices) or owed to a crime victim as compensation for damages, are exempted from this—and, as before this process was introduced in 2006, remain lifelong. Debts that have not been claimed during a 3-10 year period are cancelled. Often crime victims stop their claims after a few years since criminals often do not have job incomes and might be hard to locate, while banks make sure their claims are not cancelled. The most common reasons for personal insolvency in Sweden are illness, unemployment, divorce or company bankruptcy.\n\nFor companies, formal bankruptcy is a normal effect of insolvency, even if there is a reconstruction mechanism where the company can be given time to solve its situation, e.g. by finding an investor. The formal bankruptcy involves contracting a bankruptcy manager, who makes certain that assets are sold and money divided by the priority the law claims, and no other way. Banks have such a priority. After a finished bankruptcy for a company, it is terminated. The activities might continue in a new company which has bought important assets from the bankrupted company.\n\nBankruptcy in the United Kingdom (in a strict legal sense) relates only to individuals (including sole proprietors) and partnerships. Companies and other corporations enter into differently named legal insolvency procedures: liquidation and administration (administration order and administrative receivership). However, the term 'bankruptcy' is often used when referring to companies in the media and in general conversation. Bankruptcy in Scotland is referred to as sequestration. To apply for bankruptcy in Scotland, an individual must have more than £1,500 of debt.\n\nA trustee in bankruptcy must be either an Official Receiver (a civil servant) or a licensed insolvency practitioner. Current law in England and Wales derives in large part from the Insolvency Act 1986. Following the introduction of the Enterprise Act 2002, a UK bankruptcy now normally last no longer than 12 months, and may be less if the Official Receiver files in court a certificate that investigations are complete. It was expected that the UK Government's liberalisation of the UK bankruptcy regime would increase the number of bankruptcy cases; initially, cases increased, as the Insolvency Service statistics appear to bear out. Since 2009, the introduction of the Debt Relief Order has resulted in a dramatic fall in bankruptcies, the latest estimates for year 2014/15 being significantly less than 30,000 cases.\n\nThe UK bankruptcy law was changed in May 2000, effective May 29, 2000. Debtors may now retain occupational pensions while in bankruptcy, except in rare cases.\n\nThe Government have updated legislation (2016) to streamline the application process for UK bankruptcy. UK residents now need to apply online for bankruptcy - there is an upfront fee of £655. The process for residents of Northern Ireland differs - applicants must follow the older process of applying through the courts.\n\nBankruptcy in the United States is a matter placed under federal jurisdiction by the United States Constitution (in Article 1, Section 8, Clause 4), which empowers Congress to enact \"uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States\". Congress has enacted statutes governing bankruptcy, primarily in the form of the Bankruptcy Code, located at Title 11 of the United States Code.\n\nA debtor declares bankruptcy to obtain relief from debt, and this is normally accomplished either through a discharge of the debt or through a restructuring of the debt. When a debtor files a voluntary petition, their bankruptcy case commences.\n\nWhile bankruptcy cases are always filed in United States Bankruptcy Court (an adjunct to the U.S. District Courts), bankruptcy cases, particularly with respect to the validity of claims and exemptions, are often dependent upon State law. A Bankruptcy Exemption defines the property a debtor may retain and preserve through bankruptcy. Certain real and personal property can be exempted on \"Schedule C\" of a debtor's bankruptcy forms, and effectively be taken outside the debtor's bankruptcy estate. Bankruptcy exemptions are available only to individuals filing bankruptcy.\n\nThere are two alternative systems that can be used to \"exempt\" property from a bankruptcy estate, federal exemptions (available in some states but not all), and state exemptions (which vary widely between states). For example, Maryland and Virginia, which are adjoining states, have different personal exemption amounts that cannot be seized for payment of debts. This amount is the first $6,000 in property or cash in Maryland, but normally only the first $5,000 in Virginia. State law therefore plays a major role in many bankruptcy cases, such that there may be significant differences in the outcome of a bankruptcy case depending upon the state in which it is filed.\n\nAfter a bankruptcy petition is filed, the court schedules a hearing called a \"341 meeting\" or \"meeting of creditors\", at which the bankruptcy trustee and creditors review the petitioner's petition and supporting schedules, question the petitioner, and can challenge exemptions they believe are improper.\n\nThere are six types of bankruptcy under the Bankruptcy Code, located at Title 11 of the United States Code:\n\nAn important feature applicable to all types of bankruptcy filings is the automatic stay. The automatic stay means that the mere request for bankruptcy protection automatically halts most lawsuits, repossessions, foreclosures, evictions, garnishments, attachments, utility shut-offs, and debt collection activity.\n\nThe most common types of personal bankruptcy for individuals are Chapter 7 and Chapter 13. Chapter 7, known as a \"straight bankruptcy\" involves the discharge of certain debts without repayment. Chapter 13, involves a plan of repayment of debts over a period of years. Whether a person qualifies for Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 is in part determined by income. As many as 65% of all U.S. consumer bankruptcy filings are Chapter 7 cases.\n\nBefore a consumer may obtain bankruptcy relief under either Chapter 7 or Chapter 13, the debtor is to undertake credit counselling with approved counseling agencies prior to filing a bankruptcy petition and to undertake education in personal financial management from approved agencies prior to being granted a discharge of debts under either Chapter 7 or Chapter 13. Some studies of the operation of the credit counseling requirement suggest that it provides little benefit to debtors who receive the counseling because the only realistic option for many is to seek relief under the Bankruptcy Code.\n\nCorporations and other business forms normally file under Chapters 7 or 11.\n\nOften called \"straight bankruptcy\" or \"simple bankruptcy,\" a Chapter 7 bankruptcy potentially allows debtors to eliminate most or all of their debts over a period of as little as three or four months. In a typical consumer bankruptcy, the only debts that survive a Chapter 7 are student loans, child support obligations, some tax bills and criminal fines. Credit cards, pay day loans, personal loans, medical bills, and just about all other bills are discharged.\n\nIn Chapter 7, a debtor surrenders non-exempt property to a bankruptcy trustee, who then liquidates the property and distributes the proceeds to the debtor's unsecured creditors. In exchange, the debtor is entitled to a discharge of some debt. However, the debtor is not granted a discharge if guilty of certain types of inappropriate behavior (e.g., concealing records relating to financial condition) and certain debts (e.g., spousal and child support and most student loans). Some taxes are not discharged even though the debtor is generally discharged from debt. Many individuals in financial distress own only exempt property (e.g., clothes, household goods, an older car, or the tools of their trade or profession) and do not have to surrender any property to the trustee. The amount of property that a debtor may exempt varies from state to state (as noted above, Virginia and Maryland have a $1,000 difference.) Chapter 7 relief is available only once in any eight-year period. Generally, the rights of secured creditors to their collateral continues, even though their debt is discharged. For example, absent some arrangement by a debtor to surrender a car or \"reaffirm\" a debt, the creditor with a security interest in the debtor's car may repossess the car even if the debt to the creditor is discharged.\n\nNinety-one percent of U.S. individuals who petition for relief under Chapter 7 hire an attorney to file their petitions. The typical cost of an attorney is $1,170.00. Alternatives to filing with an attorney are: filing pro se, hiring a non-lawyer petition preparer, or using online software to generate the petition.\n\nTo be eligible to file a consumer bankruptcy under Chapter 7, a debtor must qualify under a statutory \"means test\". The means test was intended to make it more difficult for a significant number of financially distressed individual debtors whose debts are primarily consumer debts to qualify for relief under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The \"means test\" is employed in cases where an individual with primarily consumer debts has more than the average annual income for a household of equivalent size, computed over a 180-day period prior to filing. If the individual must \"take\" the \"means test\", their average monthly income over this 180-day period is reduced by a series of allowances for living expenses and secured debt payments in a very complex calculation that may or may not accurately reflect that individual's actual monthly budget. If the results of the means test show no disposable income (or in some cases a very small amount) then the individual qualifies for Chapter 7 relief. An individual who fails the means test will have their Chapter 7 case dismissed, or may have to convert the case to a Chapter 13 bankruptcy.\n\nIf a debtor does not qualify for relief under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, either because of the Means Test or because Chapter 7 does not provide a permanent solution to delinquent payments for secured debts, such as mortgages or vehicle loans, the debtor may still seek relief under Chapter 13 of the Code. A Chapter 13 plan often does not require repayment to general unsecured debts, such as credit cards or medical bills.\n\nGenerally, a trustee sells most of the debtor's assets to pay off creditors. However, certain debtor assets will be protected to some extent by bankruptcy exemptions. These include Social Security payments, unemployment compensation, limited equity in a home, car, or truck, household goods and appliances, trade tools, and books. However, these exemptions vary from state to state.\n\nIn Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the debtor retains ownership and control of assets and is re-termed a debtor in possession (DIP). The debtor in possession runs the day-to-day operations of the business while creditors and the debtor work with the Bankruptcy Court in order to negotiate and complete a plan. Upon meeting certain requirements (e.g., fairness among creditors, priority of certain creditors) creditors are permitted to vote on the proposed plan. If a plan is confirmed, the debtor continues to operate and pay debts under the terms of the confirmed plan. If a specified majority of creditors do not vote to confirm a plan, additional requirements may be imposed by the court in order to confirm the plan. Debtors filing for Chapter 11 protection a second time are known informally as \"Chapter 22\" filers.\n\nIn Chapter 13, debtors retain ownership and possession of all their assets, but must devote some portion of future income to repaying creditors, generally over three to five years. The amount of payment and period of the repayment plan depend upon a variety of factors, including the value of the debtor's property and the amount of a debtor's income and expenses. Under this chapter, the debtor can propose a repayment plan in which to pay creditors over three to five years. If the monthly income is less than the state's median income, the plan is for three years, unless the court finds \"just cause\" to extend the plan for a longer period. If the debtor's monthly income is greater than the median income for individuals in the debtor's state, the plan must generally be for five years. A plan cannot exceed the five-year limit.\n\nRelief under Chapter 13 is available only to individuals with regular income whose debts do not exceed prescribed limits. If the debtor is an individual or a sole proprietor, the debtor is allowed to file for a Chapter 13 bankruptcy to repay all or part of the debts. Secured creditors may be entitled to greater payment than unsecured creditors.\n\nIn contrast to Chapter 7, the debtor in Chapter 13 may keep all property, whether or not exempt. If the plan appears feasible and if the debtor complies with all the other requirements, the bankruptcy court typically confirms the plan and the debtor and creditors are bound by its terms. Creditors have no say in the formulation of the plan, other than to object to it, if appropriate, on the grounds that it does not comply with one of the Code's statutory requirements. Generally, the debtor makes payments to a trustee who disburses the funds in accordance with the terms of the confirmed plan.\n\nWhen the debtor completes payments pursuant to the terms of the plan, the court formally grant the debtor a discharge of the debts provided for in the plan. However, if the debtor fails to make the agreed upon payments or fails to seek or gain court approval of a modified plan, a bankruptcy court will normally dismiss the case on the motion of the trustee. After a dismissal, creditors may resume pursuit of state law remedies to recover the unpaid debt.\n\nIn 2004, the number of insolvencies reached record highs in many European countries. In France, company insolvencies rose by more than 4%, in Austria by more than 10%, and in Greece by more than 20%. The increase in the number of insolvencies, however, does not indicate the total financial impact of insolvencies in each country because there is no indication of the size of each case. An increase in the number of bankruptcy cases does not necessarily entail an increase in bad debt write-off rates for the economy as a whole.\n\nBankruptcy statistics are also a trailing indicator. There is a time delay between financial difficulties and bankruptcy. In most cases, several months or even years pass between the financial problems and the start of bankruptcy proceedings. Legal, tax, and cultural issues may further distort bankruptcy figures, especially when comparing on an international basis. Two examples:\n\nThe insolvency numbers for private individuals also do not show the whole picture. Only a fraction of heavily indebted households file for insolvency. Two of the main reasons for this are the stigma of declaring themselves insolvent and the potential business disadvantage.\n\nFollowing the soar in insolvencies in the last decade, a number of European countries, such as France, Germany, Spain and Italy, began to revamp their bankruptcy laws in 2013. They modelled these new laws after the image of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Currently, the majority of insolvency cases have ended in liquidation in Europe rather than the businesses surviving the crisis. These new law models are meant to change this; lawmakers are hoping to turn bankruptcy into a chance for restructuring rather than a death sentence for the companies.\n\nTechnically, states do not collapse directly due to a sovereign default event itself. However, the tumultuous events that follow may bring down the state, so in common language we do describe states as being bankrupted.\n\nSome examples of this are when a Korean state bankrupted Imperial China causing its destruction, or more specifically, when Chang'an's (Sui Dynasty) war with Pyongyang (Goguryeo) in 614 A.D. ended in the former's disintegration within 4 years, although the latter also seemingly entered into decline and fell some 56 years later. Another example is when the United States, with heavy financial backing from its allies (creditors), bankrupted the Soviet Union which led to the latter's demise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20756399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20756399", "title": "Bonnets Rouges", "text": "Bonnets Rouges\n\nThe bonnets rouges (red caps) movement began in October, 2013 in Brittany. It was a protest movement, largely targeting a new tax on truck-transport (billed as an \"ecotaxe\" by the government). Through a combination of demonstrations and violent actions, which included the destruction of many highway tax portals, the movement forced the French government to rescind the tax.\n\nThe protesters considered the tax harmful to Breton agriculture, which was already having a difficult time competing with its counterparts in Europe.\n\nThey wore red caps, in reference to the seventeenth century revolt of the papier timbré which was particularly active in Brittany, though the Phrygian cap as a protest symbol goes back much further.\n\nHundreds of red-cap-wearing demonstrators protested against the highway tax portal at Pont-de-Buis on 28 October 2013, and during the course of the protest a demonstrator had his hand blown off when he picked up a grenade thrown by law enforcement.\n\nSoon after, the French government announced that it would be temporarily suspending the new tax until 2015 at the earliest.\n\nThis did not satisfy the demonstrators, who went on to destroy more than two dozen tax portals, and many smaller radar-camera-like outposts, by the first week of November. These would typically be destroyed by fire, often by filling tires, stacked at their bases, with flammable material and lighting them. Sometimes, less-destructive means were used, such as wrapping the radar cameras in plastic and topping them with \"bonnets rouges\" of their own.\n\nBy late November, 46 tax radars and portals had been destroyed, and other anti-tax groups were beginning to try direct action, including farmers and equestrians who snarled traffic in Paris with their tractors and horses.\n\nAt the end of November, the movement massed in Carhaix and simultaneously used shipping trucks to blockade highways throughout France. At one point the demonstrators held an auction at which they sold off bits and pieces of previously-destroyed road tax portals as souvenirs.\n\nIn an amusing moment, a hundred employees of Ecomouv, the quasi-private company responsible for collecting the new tax, held a holiday party in Metz. Posing for a group photo in front of the company offices in their Santa Claus hats, police mistook them for a demonstration of the \"bonnets rouges\", and they quickly intervened.\n\nBy January, the number of highway tax and radar-ticket machines destroyed had topped 200. This had the desired effect. In 2013, for the first time since ticket-giving radar cameras had been installed in France, the number of tickets issued by the machines declined.\n\nThe government made its first big counterattacks in the Spring. Eleven suspected \"bonnets rouges\" were arrested and charged with conspiracy in April. The following month, the government convicted Samantha Prime of participating in the destruction of a radar outpost.\n\nDestruction of highway tax portals, however, continued. The eleven conspirators were convicted and sentenced to between four and 18 months imprisonment, along with a total of about €10,000 in fines. The same day the sentences were declared, farmers in Brittany invaded the city of Morlaix, dumped their produce in big piles in the streets, set fire to the tax office, and blockaded the area to keep fire trucks from responding.\n\nIn September and October, three other French tax offices were put to the torch, and French tax officials complained of feeling threatened.\n\nThe French government finally decided, in late October, to abandon the hated tax entirely. The cost to the government was enormous. In addition to the loss of anticipated revenue from the tax (€390 million per year) and the property damage and other costs associated with the demonstrations, the government was required to pay compensation to Ecomouv, the quasi-private company that had contracted to administer the tax, and others — nearly one billion euros in all.\n"}
{"id": "46492304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46492304", "title": "Cambridge Journal of International and Comparative Law", "text": "Cambridge Journal of International and Comparative Law\n\nThe Cambridge Journal of International and Comparative Law is an open access double blind peer-reviewed journal, published under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License.\n\nThe Journal was launched on 25 October 2011 at the Lauterpacht Centre for International Law in Cambridge by its inaugural Editors-in-Chief and Professor James Crawford SC, who called it \"a useful complement to Cambridge Studies in International and Comparative Law [published by Cambridge University Press\", as both fall well within the Cambridge ethos of trying to look into international law from a broad perspective\". The journal is run and edited by students at the University of Cambridge but receives assistance from an Academic Review Board It is the second Journal of the Faculty of Law at the University (the other one being the \"Cambridge Law Journal\" ) and one of the very few open access double blind peer review journals on international and comparative law. The CJICL is entering its third year of operation in the 2013-14 academic year, with 56 members on its editorial board.\n\nThe Journal publishes articles, case notes and book reviews on international law, comparative law, EU law and transnational law in four issues throughout the year (two regular issues, a compendium of conference papers from the CJICL conference and the UK Supreme Court Review – the latter is compiled by the editorial staff of the Journal and analyses the work of the UKSC in the previous judicial year). It also runs an online blog, which publishes short articles on topical international and comparative law issues. The CJICL holds an annual conference on International law.\n\nSince its establishment in 2011, the journal has published three issues in its first volume, and four issues in the second volume, which addressed a range of topics including international law and dispute settlement, EU Law, human rights and comparative law providing a platform for both young and well-established academics to engage in dialogue with each other through publications in the journal. The journal has a double-blind peer-review process with an academic review board of eminent scholars in the field of International and Comparative Law. In its first two volumes, the journal has published a number of articles by prominent academics, established practitioners and pre-eminent judges, including Sir Christopher Greenwood of the International Court of Justice.\n\nThe senior treasurer of the journal is Professor James Crawford A.C. S.C. and the current editors-in-chief are Daniel Clarry, Valentin Jeutner and Cameron Miles.\n\nThe journal hosts an International and Comparative Law Conference annually at Cambridge, usually at St John’s Divinity School. The first Conference discussed the theme \"Agents of Change: The Individual as a Participant in the Legal Process\" and was attended by about. 110 participants from all over the world - Europe, the Americas, Asia, Africa and Australia – and at all stages in their academic career: from graduate students and young academics to established professors and practitioners.\nThe second annual conference was held in May, 2013 on the theme of \"Legal Tradition in a Diverse World\", which saw ca. 150 participants presenting over 50 papers and included a key note address by Judge Yusuf of the International Court of Justice, a key note debate between Professors James Crawford and Alain Pellet chaired by Professor Catherine Redgwell and a key note lecture by Professor H. Patrick Glenn.\n\nThe journal publishes an annual special issue, the 'UK Supreme Court Review' that examines the decisions of the UK Supreme Court from the preceding judicial year. It is the only journal to produce a full issue review of the previous three terms of the work of the UK Supreme Court. I The past two issues of the UK Supreme Court Review have featured articles from judges of the highest appellate courts internationally, including, Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers (formerly the President of the UK Supreme Court), Justice Marie Deschamps of the Supreme Court of Canada, Justice Hayne of the High Court of Australia, and Justice Gummow (formerly of the High Court of Australia).\n\nThe journal also maintains an online platform (called CJICL Online) which aims to provide a forum for discussion of on-going legal affairs related to the subject. Two blog posts on the site gained particular popularity when Julian Assange (who mistakenly believed their texts were related to the \"Cambridge Law Journal\") cited them in an interview with the BBC.\n\n"}
{"id": "6041667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6041667", "title": "Cathedraticum", "text": "Cathedraticum\n\nCathedraticum (a Latin word from \"cathedra\", episcopal seat or throne) is a specified sum of money to be paid annually toward a bishop. It is a mark of honour and a sign of subjection to the cathedral church, from which its name is derived.\n\nIn Early Christianity, financing the bishop was tendered rather through custom than by canon law. The earliest legislation on the subject seems to be a canon of the Second Council of Braga (572); according to its decree, only parish churches and chapters were obliged to pay the cathedraticum (Can. Placuit, 10, qu. 3), because at the time of the Council of Braga the sacraments were administered to the faithful in parochial churches only.\n\nWhen in the course of time, many other ecclesiastical edifices were built and endowed, it was judged proper that these also should pay the cathedraticum. Hence Pope Honorius III made a universal law (cap. Conquerente, de Off. Ordin.) that not only chapters and parish churches, but also endowed chapels and benefices should be subject to the same tax (Rota coram Tan. decis, 228), which was to be paid to the bishop on the occasion of his annual visitation of his diocese. The amount of the cathedraticum was fixed in ancient times at two solidi (coins; a solidus was one seventy-second part of a pound of gold). According to canonists, this remains the obligatory amount of the tax, unless custom establishes a different sum. If a smaller amount than the original tax becomes customary in a diocese, the bishop must be content with this reduced pension, nor can he command a return to the higher sum (S. C. C. in Amalph., 1705). In general it is presumed that the quantity of the cathedraticum will be determined by reasonable custom according to the exigencies of various dioceses and countries. Where custom has not fixed the sum, the S. Congregation of the Council declared that either the amount paid by a neighbouring diocese or the equivalent of the original two solidi must be taken as the proper tax (In Albin., 1644).\n\nThe regular clergy are not obliged to pay the cathedraticum for their monasteries and conventual churches, as is expressly stated in the \"Corpus Juris\" (cap. Inter cætera, viii, caus. 10). The reason is found in the very idea of the cathedraticum, which is given by a church or benefice in sign of subjection to the jurisdiction of the bishop. As exempt regulars are immediately subject to the Holy See, there is no obligation on them to pay the cathedraticum. In the case, however, that regulars administer parish churches or secular benefices, they are subject to the tax, inasmuch as such institutions fall under diocesan law. It has also been declared that confraternities which have no churches in the strict sense of the word, but only chapels, are exempt from this episcopal tax (\"In Firmana, Cathedr.\"). As the cathedraticum pertains to episcopal rights, it is privileged and consequently no prescription can totally abrogate it. This is expressly declared by the S. Congregation of the Council (In Amalph., 1707), when it decrees that no contrary custom, even of immemorial antiquity, can exempt from the payment of this tax. It is also to be noted that, according to the common law, the cathedraticum is to be uniform for all institutions in a diocese, without regard to the opulence or poverty of the benefices.\n\nOwing to the phraseology of the Council of Trent (Sess. XXIV, cap. ii), a controversy arose as to whether this council had abrogated the cathedraticum. The S. Congregation of the Council gave the following interpretation: \"The Council did not abolish the cathedraticum; but desired that it be paid, not at the time of the episcopal visitation, but rather at the diocesan synod.\" It is owing to the custom of paying this tax at the synod that the name synodaticum has been given to it. By law, however, there is, strictly speaking, no fixed time for making this payment. For although as a rule it is customary to do so in the synod, yet custom or agreement can place it at another time. In fact the S. Congregation of the Council has declared that the cathedraticum must be paid, even in those years in which no diocesan synod is celebrated (In Perus., Cathedr., 1735). As the cathedraticum is a mark of subjection to the cathedral church, the bishop cannot exempt any benefice from this tax. On the other hand, he cannot demand it from clerics or priests who have no benefices, even though he plead ancient custom to the contrary (S. C. Ep. In Compsan., 1694). He can require it, however, from the diocesan seminary if benefices have been incorporated with it. In like manner he can demand the cathedraticum from monasteries with which secular churches and benefices have been united. An exception to this law was made, however, for the Order of St. John of Jerusalem in 1630.\n\nAll this concerns the laws on the cathedraticum where the Church is canonically established. Obviously, in so-called missionary countries, where benefices are practically unknown, such laws cannot apply. As, however, it is only equitable that the diocese should support its bishop, especially as he has no episcopal benefice, a pension which retains the canonical name of cathedraticum is usually paid to the bishop in most missionary countries. There is no uniform law on the subject. The question necessarily occupied the attention of various synods and the conclusion was unanimous that a tax analogous to the cathedraticum should be imposed on dioceses for the support of their bishops. Thus the Eighth Provincial Council of Baltimore, held in 1855, declared in its seventh decree: \"As it is just that the bishop who watches over the salvation of all, should receive from all the faithful of the diocese whatever is necessary for his proper support and for enabling him to execute his office, we decree that he may demand for this purpose a part of the revenues of all churches in which the care of souls is exercised\". The Cardinal Prefect of the Propaganda, writing to the bishops of the Province of Cincinnati in 1857, says: \"The right of the bishop to receive support from his diocese has been recognized; nevertheless, the application and determination of the means of support can best be treated of in diocesan synods, because cognizance can then be taken of the state and condition of each diocese\". The Provincial Council of New Orleans in 1856 calls this subsidy the \"right of cathedraticum, either to sustain the bishop or to provide for various necessities of the diocese\". It states that each bishop of the province should determine the amount in a diocesan synod. In Canada, the Provincial Council of Halifax in 1857 declares: \"As the bishop is constituted not for one part but for all parts of his diocese, and as he labours and watches for all alike, all are obliged to contribute for his proper sustenance\". The Second Plenary Council of Baltimore in 1866, likewise states that \"it is evidently equitable and just that all the faithful of each diocese should contribute to the support of their bishop, who bears the solicitude for all\".\n\nAs to the determination of the quantity of the cathedraticum, we find the First Provincial Council of Cincinnati requesting Propaganda Fide to sanction some uniform method, but the latter preferred to commit this to the diocesan synods. In the acts of the First Provincial Council of Quebec in 1851, we fine the following scheme \"proposed\" to Propaganda. It is there said to be similar to that already sanctioned for some bishops in Canada and Ireland: each bishop is to receive a third of the revenues of one or two parishes; or the fourth or fifth part of three or four parishes; or the tenth part of practically all the parishes in his diocese, having regard to the circumstances of each parish. Propaganda sanctioned the employment of the last-named provision in 1852. In the Province of Halifax, Canada, it was decreed in 1857 that a collection be taken up annually in October for the support of the bishops. In England, the Third Provincial Council of Westminster in 1859 placed the amount of the cathedraticum at one half pound sterling. It declared that the liability to pay this tax was obligatory on each cathedral chapter; on priests ordained for the mission, who receive salaries from churches or oratories; on those who have the cure of souls; and on all who preside over churches and public oratories unless they can prove a special exemption.\n\nIn the United States, the Eighth Provincial Council of Baltimore, when vindicating the right of the bishop to part of the revenues of the churches, enumerates as such revenues, the renting of pews, the collections taken up during Mass and the offerings made at baptisms and marriages. An identical decree was adopted by the Second Council of the Province of Australia in 1869, but Propaganda did not sanction it and declared that the matter should preferably be determined by the various diocesan synods. This was likewise the opinion of the Fathers of the Second Plenary Council of Baltimore in 1866. As a consequence, different methods of computing the cathedraticum prevail throughout the United States. In one prominent diocese, for example, the rector of each church must pay one-fifth of his revenue if it exceed one thousand dollars, or one-third if it be less. The revenue in question is declared to be made up of the pew rents, the collections during Divine service and the funeral stipends. Finally the diocesan arrangement for the cathedraticum has been declared by Propaganda Fide (as in 1872) to be a binding law on those whom it concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "51616006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51616006", "title": "City court", "text": "City court\n\nCity court or municipal court is a court of law with jurisdiction limited to a city or other municipality. It typically addresses \"violations of city ordinances and may also have jurisdiction over minor criminal cases...and over certain civil cases.\" Examples include Moscow City Court in Russia, Municipal Court of Chicago and New York City Civil Court in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "54724279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54724279", "title": "Civil Rights Uniformity Act of 2017", "text": "Civil Rights Uniformity Act of 2017\n\nHouse Resolution 2796 (HR 2796, The Civil Rights Uniformity Act of 2017) is a bill in the United States House of Representatives that was introduced on June 7, 2017 by Representative Pete Olson [R-TX-22] and originally cosponsored by Reps. Brian Babin [R-TX-36], Ralph Lee Abraham [R-LA-5], and Vicky Hartzler [R-MO-4]. The proposed legislation would prohibit the interpretation of the word \"sex\" or \"gender\" to include \"gender identity,\" and would require the terms \"man\" or \"woman\" to refer exclusively to a person's biologically-assigned gender in the interpretation of federal civil rights laws, federal administrative agency regulations, and federal guidance. The bill has attracted five additional cosponsors since its introduction.\n\nAccording to the bill summary,\nRep. Pete Olson stated \"The Founding Fathers never intended unelected bureaucrats in federal agencies to make sweeping changes to the definition of gender.\"\n\nHR 5812, a bill containing nearly identical text and co-sponsored by many of the same Representatives (in addition to Reps. Babin, Grothman, and Hartzler, HR 5812 was co-sponsored by Rep. Dave Brat [R-VA-7]), was introduced to the House on , where it died in committee. The National Center for Transgender Equality did not recommend any action on HR 2796, as it was also likely to die in committee.\n\nHR 2796 was introduced to the house on from the House Committee on the Judiciary. It was later referred to the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice on .\n\nA BILL\nTo repeal executive overreach, to clarify that the proper constitutional authority for social transformation belongs to the legislative branch.\n\nSECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.\n\nThis Act may be cited as the “Civil Rights Uniformity Act of 2017”.\n\nSEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.\nSEC. 3. PROHIBITION OF POLICIES REDEFINING SEX TO MEAN GENDER IDENTITY.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47142743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47142743", "title": "Constitution of Zaire", "text": "Constitution of Zaire\n\nThe Constitution of Zaire (), was promulgated on 15 August 1974, revised on 15 February 1978, and amended on 5 July 1990. Defining state power as an extension of the individual powers of Mobutu Sese Seko, the 1974 constitution codified Zaire as a one-party dictatorship and enshrined the status of Mobutism as the state ideology, together with the dominant position of the ruling Popular Movement of the Revolution (MPR) party. The 1974 constitution was the third in the Congo's post-independence history, replacing earlier constitutions adopted to replace the original basic law of 1960, adopted in 1964 and 1967.\n\nAccording to academics M. Crawford Young and Thomas Turner, the 1974 constitution should be seen as the culmination of a period of Zairean political history beginning in 1970. The phase was marked by growing national self-confidence and the emergence of Mobutu's \"Authenticité\" policy to remove non-\"authenic\" foreign influences from Zairean society. Young and Turner describe the 1974 constitution as the \"normative embodiment of the Mobutist state at its apogee\" and argued that it was an unprecedented legal expression of \"centralized, untrammelled personal power\". Under the provisions of the Constitution, the MPR was recognised as Zaire's only \"institution\" and its president as President of Zaire itself with total power over government and judiciary (Articles 28 and 30). Mobutism was declared the state ideology (Article 46) and all Zaireans were automatically made members of the MPR (Article 8). Mobutu himself was exempted from the restrictions on power mentioned in the document and given the power to unilaterally modify the document at will. The state of Zaire's legal system as established by the constitution led Marcel Lihau, a jurist and former president of the Supreme Court of Justice who had fled the country, to remark that \"Mobutu is the constitution in Zaire\". Young and Turner did, however, note that the \"Mobutist state never approximated the leviathan vision embodied in the constitution\". In particular, after Shaba I and Shaba II invasions (1977–78), Mobutu was forced to liberalize Zaire's political structure to allow contested elections and a degree of political dissent.\n\nThe 1974 constitution remained in force, with some subsequent modifications, until the collapse of the Mobutu regime during the First Congo War. In 1994, the first of two Transitional Constitutions were adopted; the current Constitution of the Democratic Republic of the Congo was adopted in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43727035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43727035", "title": "Dematerialization (securities)", "text": "Dematerialization (securities)\n\nIn finance and financial law, dematerialization refers to the substitution of paper-form securities by book-entry securities. This is a form of indirect holding system where an intermediary, such as a broker or central securities depository, or the issuer itself (e.g., French system) holds a record of the ownership of shares usually in electronic format. The dematerialization of securities such as stocks has been a major trend since the late 1960s, with the result that by 2010 the majority of global securities were held in dematerialized form.\n\nAlthough the phenomenon is ancient, since book-entry systems for recording securities have been noted from civilisations as early as Assyria in 2000 BC, it gained new prominence with the advent of computer technology in the late 20th century. Even during the period when paper certificates were popular, book-entry systems continued since many small firms could not afford printing secured paper-form securities. These book-entry securities were often held under the control of an attorney who acts as a notary to certify the existence of the securities, as well as their authenticity.\n\nSince the 1960, dematerialization has effected more and more listed companies in the United States and more recently in the European Union, where dematerialized securities represent often more than 99% of the securities listed on regulated markets.\n\nHowever, the phenomena of dematerialization of securities issued by large firms is mostly undertaken via Central Securities Depository, a national or regional institution holding the notary function, such as the Depository Trust Company (DTC) in the United States or Euroclear Group in part of the EU, which itself entrusts banks and investment firms to act as intermediaries between issuers and investors for the custody of these securities. Therefore, dematerialized securities are often referred as intermediated securities, in particular by the Unidroit convention on substantive rules for intermediated securities.\n\n"}
{"id": "5563053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5563053", "title": "Dynalite", "text": "Dynalite\n\nDynalite is a lighting and automation control system developed in Sydney, Australia by a company of the same name. In 2009 the company was bought by Philips to become Philips-Dynalite. The system is commonly used for lighting control, building automation, home automation and room automation applications and is sold worldwide.\n\nThe Dynalite system consists of:\n\nUser Interfaces - Switches, panels, motion and heat sensors, touch screens and recently IOS devices,\n\nPanels are typically standard sized (Australian or European standard size) wall switch plates, but instead of normal rocker switches, they have buttons of various designs, usually with an indicator LED inside.\n\nOutput devices - Dimmers, Relays, LED drivers and DALI, DSI and 0–10 volt controllers.\n\nThe dimmers range anywhere from a single 240 V relay controller to leading and trailing edge 1-20 amp dimmer devices.\n\nNetwork Backbone Devices:\nNetwork connectors extend the range of the network, as well as providing integration with other technologies such as AMX, Crestron, etc.\n\nThrough the 100-BT device, the communication network can be extended over TCP/IP networks, which also allows the use of computer systems which can integrate into the system.\n\nThe network components are all used to set a system of Areas and Channels. Any given lighting, fan, louvre, and relay circuit is a Channel in an Area.\n\nFor example, a house might have 3 rooms. Each room is called an Area. The kitchen may contain overhead lights, a range-hood fan and lights over the bench. These three are called Channels.\n\nThose Areas and Channels are in states called Presets. In Preset 1, typically, all lights etc. are fully on, in Preset 4, all of the lights are off. This is all customisable either by the programmer, or if it has been allowed, by the end user as well.\n\nSo, sending 'Area 3 Preset 4' will turn off the lights in Area 3 (room 3). Sending 'Area 3 Preset 2' will set the lights to a low level, which is customisable.\n\nChannels can also be sent presets aside from the preset of the area to which they belong. 'Area 3 Preset 4' turns off the lights, then 'Area 3 Channel 7 Preset 1' will turn that light back on.\n\nDynalite components communicate using DyNet. The physical layer consists of a modified RS-485 TIA/EIA-485-A serial bus running along CAT5 cable, blue and blue/white carry the hot and cold signal respectively, orange and orange/white carry +12 V DC, green and green/white carry 0 V, Brown and Brown/white are unused. End of line termination is required \n\nDyNet 1 is the most commonly used protocol over the bus, being messages of 8 bytes of data, the 8th byte being a checksum. Data is send at speed of 9600 baud, 8 bits, no parity, 1 stopbit (8N1). Commonly there are two types of message sent via DyNet 1: logical and physical. Logical messages talk to Areas and Channels, and physical messages talk directly to the devices. These 2 are typically called 1C and 5C messages, on account of the first byte of their message.\n\nA 1C message consist of: [1C] [Area] [Data 1] [OpCode] [Data 2] [Data 3] [Join] [Checksum]\n\nArea is the Logical Area the message is to control.\n\nOpCode defines the Action to be taken on the Area.\n\nJoin is a bitswitch which can be used to filter out selected channels.\n\nAn OpCode of 00 to 03 means the action is to send the given area into preset 1 to 4 plus 8 times the value of Data 3 over the time specified by Data 1 and Data 2.\n\nAn OpCode of 0A to 0D means the action is to send the given area into preset 5 to 8 plus 8 times the value of Data 3 over the time specified by Data 1 and Data 2.\n\nThat gives a possibility of 8 × 255 presets. A usual job uses 4 to 8, and generally preset 4 is reserved to 'Off' or 'all to 0%'.\n\nDyNet 2 is used mainly to upload data to devices on the network. It allows larger messages of data to be sent at higher speeds (115200 baud), significantly reducing lag time.\n\nEach device contains its own programmable logic controller and follows the peer-to-peer model, the main advantage of this is that there is no reliance on a single central controller, the system is capable of a high level of resilience and therefore well suited to situations where total failure could be a safety issue, such as lighting systems in public places.\n\nThe 'Message on Change' system only sends a message every time a lighting state is to change, as opposed to the DMX protocol, which is constantly streaming the entire data-map. This allows for much more devices on a single bus, but also leads to missed messages - as below.\n\nAs most of the DyNet is openly published, it is possible to integrate with third party devices.\n\nThe DyNet protocol offers no error correction or transmission control, each network message is sent on a 'best effort' basis. This means that if a transmitted message is corrupted or missed by a receiving device, there is nothing to pick up that the message was not received, but also makes for much faster communication and response to user input in ideal situations.\nThe design opens the possibility of devices missing messages. In the case of a user pushing a button to turn on a light, this does not present a large problem as the user will probably notice and press the button again, but if it is an automated message say, from a timeclock, there is potential for an important message turning on outside lights of a shopping center to be missed. The usual workaround for this is to simply send the important message twice or more.\n\nThe previous Dynalite programming software (dLight 2) commonly in use up to 2011, (and still sometimes used for older equipment) was built progressively upon a Windows 3.11 application, and hides many undocumented keyboard shortcuts which are necessary to program a system.\n\nThe Envision editor was launched in 2010 and is designed to be more intuitive and easy to use. It is designed for programmers - it is not expected that end users will be able to set up their own systems, one needs training (usually free) provided by Dynalite distributors.\n\nA selection of large scale installations of DyNet in buildings:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2504384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2504384", "title": "Ex tempore", "text": "Ex tempore\n\nEx tempore (Latin for \"out of the moment“) has two meanings: \n\n\"Extempore\" or \"ex tempore\" refers to a stage or theater performance that is carried out without preparation or forethought. Most often the term is used in the context of speech, singing and stage acting. Some kinds of oral poetry depend on a certain degree of extemporization, including the couplet, the Gstanzl, and the limerick. Avadhanam performance of India requires high level of extemporisation to create hundreds of poems in different styles in front of a large audience.\n\n\"Ex tempore\" is a legal term that means 'at the time'. A judge who hands down a decision in a case soon or straight after hearing it is delivering a decision \"ex tempore\". Another way a judge may deliver a decision is to reserve his decision and deliver it later in written form. An \"ex tempore\" judgment, being off the cuff, does not entail the same preparation as a reserved decision. Consequently, it will not be thought out to the same degree.\n\nIn Australia, intermediate-level courts tend to have a heavy case load, and so many decisions are delivered \"ex tempore\" for reasons of time and necessity. Because many decisions are \"ex tempore\", intermediate-level courts' decisions are not binding on inferior courts - that is to say, that in New South Wales, the District Court's decisions are not binding on the Local Court (see Valentine v Eid (1992) 27 NSWLR 615 and \"stare decisis\").\n\nEx tempore decisions are not binding on later courts due to the quick nature of their delivery after the hearing of a case. Therefore, these decisions are of persuasive authority only and a later court, dealing with a case of similar facts, can reach a different conclusion if it is appropriate and the court in question believes that their decision is more suitable.\n\n"}
{"id": "21167378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21167378", "title": "Extradition case of John Anderson", "text": "Extradition case of John Anderson\n\nThe Anderson case took place in Canada West from 1860 to 1861. The case dealt with whether or not to extradite an escaped slave to the United States on the charge of murder. The majority of the presiding judges who handled the case agreed that there was sufficient evidence to prove criminality of the extraditable offence. The decision was based upon the terms laid out in Article X of the Webster–Ashburton Treaty of 1842. Anderson was released, however, on a technicality.\n\nJohn Anderson was an African-American slave who escaped to Canada, evading the pursuit of bounty hunters. While on the run he killed a farmer from Howard County, Missouri. Anderson stabbed the farmer, Seneca Digges, who died shortly after. Digges intended to legally recapture Anderson, and ultimately send him back into his master’s custody. Anderson lived and worked in Canada West from 1854 to April 1860, managing to keep a low profile. He was eventually arrested and held by Magistrate William Matthews in Brantford, Ontario.\n\nSome have argued that the Anderson case, aside from igniting a media, legal, and political frenzy, had a profound impact on Canada’s future relationship with Britain (Brode 1989, Farwell 1912, Reinders 1975). It also set an important precedent for Canadian leaders to make the superior courts handle the most political divisive decisions, which had originally been reserved for the executive branch of government.\nJohn Anderson's motive for escape arose following his sale to another farmer. He realized he would never see his family again in such a situation, and this was unbearable. He hoped to become a legitimate free man and work so he could earn enough money to purchase his family out of bondage. Escape to Canada became his only option after he allegedly killed Missouri farmer Seneca Digges \"by accident\" when an attempt on his capture was made by Digges. When Anderson got to Canada there were wanted posters everywhere. The Canadian citizenry and the government at the time engaged in heated debate over whether it was acceptable for Anderson to live free in their country. Some people thought that he was dangerous and might end up killing Canadian farmers. Others denied feeling any threat of danger from the man, and argued for him to stay.\n\nAnti-slavery associations from Britain and pre-Confederation Canada played an instrumental role in assisting Anderson before, during, and after the case. Sir John A. Macdonald, made use of public funds to foot the bill for Anderson’s legal defences.\n\nA crucial feature in the whole situation occurred while Anderson was awaiting an appeal of the Canadian court’s initial decision, which stipulated that he should indeed be extradited. The British Court of Queen’s Bench attempted to interfere by sending a writ of \"habeas corpus\" for him to appear before a court in London, England, to Britain's Canadian subjects who were already in the process of handling the situation. \"Not only was the writ ‘an evil precedent’, but it could lead to further conflict between English and Canadian judicatures.\" The English courts never got their chance to handle the case because Anderson’s appeal was expedited to the Court of Common Pleas. He was released due to faulty wording in the warrant.\n\nThe issue with the English writ, and the negative reaction to it, uncovered the need for written clarification of the relationship between English and Canadian courts. As one result, the Habeas Corpus Act 1862 was passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1862, which denied British courts the right to issue writs of \"habeas corpus\" for British colonies or dominions with their own courts capable of doing so. It reaffirmed that Canadian jurisdictions had become self-sufficient and did not take kindly to interferences in their judicial system. It is a significant case to study in Canada’s legal, political, and social heritage.\n"}
{"id": "19053275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19053275", "title": "FDA Preemption", "text": "FDA Preemption\n\nFDA Preemption is the legal theory in the United States that exempts product manufacturers from tort claims regarding Food and Drug Administration approved products. FDA Preemption has been a highly contentious issue. In general, consumer groups are against it while the FDA and pharmaceutical manufacturers are in favor of it, arguing that the FDA should set both the floor and the ceiling for drug regulation. Michigan is the only state that voluntarily applies FDA Preemption to its own state tort law through a regulatory compliance defense, although Michigan's law has been controversial and efforts to repeal it are underway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52725756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52725756", "title": "FOIL request", "text": "FOIL request\n\nA FOIL request refers to a formal submission requesting information from New York state on the basis of New York's Freedom of Information Law (FOIL). Such requests are closely analogous to FOIA requests to the United States government based on its Freedom of Information Act.\n"}
{"id": "2818247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2818247", "title": "Farm tin", "text": "Farm tin\n\nFarm tin or the tin dues was one of a number of payments required of tin miners in Devon and Cornwall. The holder of a mining sett was required to pay a portion of the black tin extracted to the holder of the tin bounds in which the sett was granted. The portion was the \"farm tin\". The portion was normally interpreted to be one-twelfth of extracted tin: they were also required to play toll tin, calculated at one fifteenth.\n\n"}
{"id": "44311003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44311003", "title": "Fraud-on-the-market theory", "text": "Fraud-on-the-market theory\n\nThe fraud-on-the-market theory is the idea that stock prices are a function of all material information about the company and its business. It applies to securities markets, where it can be assumed that all material information is available to investors. The theory states that under these conditions, there is a causal link between any misstatement and any stock purchaser, because the misstatements defraud the entire market and thus affect the price of the stock. Therefore, a material misstatement's effect on an individual purchaser is no less significant than the effect on the entire market.\n\nAccording to this theory, \"When an investor buys or sells stock at the market price, his or her reliance may be presumed, assuming that he or she pleads that: (1) the information allegedly misrepresented was publicly known, (2) it was material, (3) the stock was traded in an efficient market, and (4) the plaintiff traded in the stock in the relevant period.\"\n\nFraud on the market theory applies to civil enforcement of SEC Rule 10b-5 which \"prohibits any act or omission resulting in fraud or deceit in connection with the purchase or sale of any security.\" The use of this theory was established in Basic and affirmed in Halliburton.\n\nSee Efficient-market hypothesis\n"}
{"id": "36561056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36561056", "title": "Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act", "text": "Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act\n\nThe Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, abbreviated HITECH Act, was enacted under Title XIII of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (). Under the HITECH Act, the United States Department of Health and Human Services is spending $25.9 billion to promote and expand the adoption of health information technology. The Washington Post reported the inclusion of \"as much as $36.5 billion in spending to create a nationwide network of electronic health records.\" At the time it was enacted, it was considered \"the most important piece of health care legislation to be passed in the last 20 to 30 years\" and the \"foundation for health care reform.\"\n\nThe former National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, Dr. Farzad Mostashari, has explained: \"You need information to be able to do population health management. You can serve an individual quite well; you can deliver excellent customer service if you wait for someone to walk through the door and then you go and pull their chart. What you can't do with paper charts is ask the question, 'Who didn't walk in the door?'\"\n\nIn the years since the law was passed, electronic health records in the United States have become more common, but it's unclear how much this was caused by the law. The meaningful use incentives in the law only applied to certain types of hospitals, however, and a 2017 study suggests that these hospitals did adopt electronic health records more aggressively.\n\nThe HITECH Act set meaningful use of interoperable EHR adoption in the health care system as a critical national goal and incentivized EHR adoption. The \"goal is not adoption alone but 'meaningful use' of EHRs—that is, their use by providers to achieve significant improvements in care.\"\n\nTitle IV of the act promises maximum incentive payments for Medicaid to those who adopt and use \"certified EHRs\" of $63,750 over 6 years beginning in 2011. Eligible professionals must begin receiving payments by 2016 to qualify for the program. For Medicare the maximum payments are $44,000 over 5 years. Doctors who do not adopt an EHR by 2015 will be penalized 1% of Medicare payments, increasing to 3% over 3 years. In order to receive the EHR stimulus money, the HITECH act (ARRA) requires doctors to show \"meaningful use\" of an EHR system. As of June 2010, there are no penalty provisions for Medicaid.\n\nHealth information exchange (HIE) has emerged as a core capability for hospitals and physicians to achieve \"meaningful use\" and receive stimulus funding. Starting in 2015, hospitals and doctors will be subject to financial penalties under Medicare if they are not using electronic health records.\n\nThe main components of meaningful use are:\nIn other words, providers need to show they're using certified EHR technology in ways that can be measured significantly in quality and in quantity.\n\nThe meaningful use of EHRs intended by the US government incentives is categorized as follows:\n\nThe Obama Administration's Health IT program intends to use federal investments to stimulate the market of electronic health records:\n\nThe detailed definition of \"meaningful use\" was rolled out in 3 stages. Details of each stage were hotly debated by various groups.\nStage 1 was finalized in July 2010,\nStage 2 in August 2012,\nand Stage 3 in October 2015\n\nThe first steps in achieving meaningful use are to have a certified electronic health record (EHR) and to be able to demonstrate that it is being used to meet the requirements. Stage 1 contains 25 objectives/measures for Eligible Providers (EPs) and 24 objectives/measures for eligible hospitals. The objectives/measures have been divided into a core set and menu set. EPs and eligible hospitals must meet all objectives/measures in the core set (15 for EPs and 14 for eligible hospitals). EPs must meet 5 of the 10 menu-set items during Stage 1, one of which must be a public health objective.\n\nFull list of the Core Requirements and a full list of the Menu Requirements.\n\nCore Requirements:\n\nMenu Requirements:\n\nTo receive federal incentive money, CMS requires participants in the Medicare EHR Incentive Program to \"attest\" that during a 90-day reporting period, they used a certified EHR and met Stage 1 criteria for meaningful use objectives and clinical quality measures. For the Medicaid EHR Incentive Program, providers follow a similar process using their state's attestation system.\n\nIn 2017, the government for the first time charged an EHR vendor with falsely representing to customers and the government that its EHR system met the requirements for meaningful use. eClinicalWorks agreed to pay $155 million to settle government charges and a \"qui tam\" lawsuit brought by a whistleblower who implemented eClinicalWorks' system at Rikers Island Correctional Facility in New York City. The government also alleged that ECW paid kickbacks for referrals. The government also reached separate settlement agreements with three eClinicalWorks employees who will pay a total of $80,000 to the government to settle civil allegations.\n\nThere is established within the Department of Health and Human Services an Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC). The National Coordinator is appointed by the Secretary and reports directly to the Secretary.\n\nThe National Coordinator is responsible for the development of the Nationwide Health Information Network.\n\nThe HIT Policy Committee recommends a policy framework for the development and adoption of a nationwide health information technology infrastructure that permits the electronic exchange and use of health information.\n\nThe HIT Standards Committee recommends to the National Coordinator standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria. The Standards Committee also harmonizes, pilot tests, and ensures consistency with the Social Security Act.\n\nThe HITECH Act requires entities covered by the HIPAA to report data breaches, which affect 500 or more persons, to the United States Department of Health and Human Services (U.S.HHS), to the news media, and to the people affected by the data breaches. This subtitle extends the complete Privacy and Security Provisions of HIPAA to the business associates of covered entities. This includes the extension of updated civil and criminal penalties to the pertinent business associates. These changes are also required to be included in any business-associate agreements among the covered entities. On November 30, 2009, the regulations associated with the enhancements to HIPAA enforcement took effect.\n\nAnother significant change brought about in Subtitle D of the HITECH Act is the new breach notification requirements. This imposes new notification requirements on covered entities, business associates, vendors of personal health records (PHR) and related entities if a breach of unsecured protected health information (PHI) occurs. On April 27, 2009, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued guidance on how to secure protected health information appropriately. Both HHS and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) were required under the HITECH Act to issue regulations associated with the new breach notification requirements. The HHS rule was published in the Federal Register on August 24, 2009, and the FTC rule was published on August 25, 2009.\n\nThe final significant change made in Subtitle D of the HITECH Act implements new rules for the accounting of disclosures of a patient's health information. It extends the current accounting for disclosure requirements to information that is used to carry out treatment, payment and health care operations when an organization is using an electronic health record (EHR). This new requirement also limits the timeframe for the accounting to three years instead of six as it currently stands. These changes took effect January 1, 2011, for organizations implementing EHRs between January 1, 2009 and January 1, 2011, and January 1, 2013, for organizations who had implemented an EHR prior to January 1, 2009.\n\nOn July 14, 2010, HHS issued a rule that listed categories that included 701,325 entities and 1.5 million business associates who would have access to patient information without patient consent after the patient had given general consent to their medical practitioner's HIPAA release.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31822574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31822574", "title": "Immutable characteristic", "text": "Immutable characteristic\n\nAn immutable characteristic is any sort of physical attribute which is perceived as being unchangeable, entrenched and innate. The term is often used to describe segments of the population which share such attributes and are contrasted from others by those attributes, and is used in human rights law to classify protected groups of people who should be protected from civil or criminal actions which are directed against those immutable characteristics.\n\nFor example, a legal debate about sexual orientation concerns whether it is a mutable or immutable characteristic. If it is immutable, then homosexuality, bisexuality, asexuality, heterosexuality, etc., are all immutable characteristics that naturally occur and cannot be changed. If it is mutable, then those characteristics \"can\" be changed.\n\n"}
{"id": "7213070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7213070", "title": "International response to the Second Chechen War", "text": "International response to the Second Chechen War\n\nRussia incurred much international criticism for its conduct during the Second Chechen War, which started in 1999. The governments of the United States and other countries condemned deaths and expulsions among civilians. The United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNHCR) passed two resolutions in 2000 and 2001 condemning human rights violations in Chechnya and requiring Russia to set up an independent national commission of inquiry to investigate the matter. However, a third resolution on these lines failed in 2004. The Council of Europe in multiple resolutions and statements between 2003 and 2007 called on Russia (a member of the Council) to cease human rights violations. The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) between 2005 and 2007 conducted legal cases brought by Chechens against the Russian government, and in many of these cases held Russia responsible for deaths, disappearances and torture.\n\nThere had been strong international condemnation of Russia's threat to civilians to get out of the Chechen capital, Grozny, or be considered an enemy target and destroyed. The United States and the European Union denounced the move. There had been speculation about possible economic sanctions.\n\nUS President Bill Clinton said Russia would \"pay a heavy price\" for its current tactics, facing international isolation. The EU also urged Russia to end what they called disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force in Chechnya. The United Kingdom Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Robin Cook has \"wholeheartedly condemned\" the Russian ultimatum to the people of Grozny to flee or die. \"We condemn vigorously what Milosevic did in Kosovo and we condemn vigorously what Russia is doing in Chechnya,\" he said.\n\nOn November 18, 1999, then presidential candidate George W. Bush strongly criticised Russia over its military campaign in Chechnya, saying foreign aid to Russia should be suspended if Russian policy did not change. \"I think Russia has stepped over the bounds,\" Bush said.\n\nThe United States statement in response to Human Rights Commission Resolution on Chechnya in 2000 noted:\n\nAs Secretary Albright noted in her March 24th speech to the Commission, \"We cannot ignore the fact that thousands of Chechen civilians have died and more than 200,000 have been driven from their homes.\" Together with other delegations, we have expressed our alarm at the persistent, credible reports of human rights violations by Russian forces in Chechnya, including extrajudicial killings. There are also reports that Chechen separatists have committed abuses, including the killing of civilians and prisoners. ... The war in Chechnya has greatly damaged Russia's international standing and is isolating Russia from the international community. Russia's work to repair that damage, both at home and abroad, or its choice to risk further isolating itself, is the most immediate and momentous challenge that Russia faces.\n\nOn December 9, 1999, at a meeting with Li Peng, People's Republic of China's legislative chairman and the communist government's most hard-line leader, Boris Yeltsin told reporters he wanted to send a message to Clinton, who had criticized Russia for causing civilian casualties in Chechnya. \"It seems Mr. Clinton has forgotten Russia is a great power that possesses a nuclear arsenal. We aren't afraid at all of Clinton's anti-Russian position. I want to tell President Clinton that he alone cannot dictate how the world should live, work and play. It is us who will dictate,\" Yeltsin said. Yeltsin and President of the People's Republic of China Jiang Zemin discussed both criticized U.S. global dominance. \"Jiang Zemin completely understands and fully supports Russia's actions in combatting terrorism and extremism in Chechnya,\" Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov said afterwards. Chinese Foreign Ministry said that China \"understands and supports the efforts made by Russia in safeguarding national unity and territorial integrity.\"'\n\nOn 26 September 2002, after Saddam Hussein's meeting with the Chechen pro-Moscow President Akhmad Kadyrov, Iraq's Foreign Minister Naji Sabri stated the country's position with regard to Chechnya, namely that Chechnya is an integral part of Russia. \"Iraq is firmly against any manifestations of separatism in Russia.\"\n\nCouncil of Europe Resolutions and Recommendations on 'The human rights situation in the Chechen Republic':\n\nIn June 2005, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) examined Russia's progress in honoring the obligations and commitments it undertook on joining the Council of Europe in 1996. PACE passed a resolution which stated that there had been very little progress in relation to the obligation to bring to justice those responsible for human rights violations. The resolution called on the Russian authorities to \"take effective action to put an immediate end to the ongoing 'disappearances', torture, arbitrary detention in illegal and secret facilities, and unlawful killings\" reported in Chechnya.\n\nThe June 9, 2006 PACE report by Dick Marty said \"It is hardly possible to speak of secret detention centers in Council of Europe member states without mentioning Chechnya. Mr Bindig's very recent report also notes not only numerous cases of forced disappearance and torture, but also the existence of secret places of detention.\" It quoted \"Damning recent accounts by witnesses.\"\n\nOn March 13, 2007 the new Council of Europe report said \"resort to torture and other forms of ill-treatment by members of law enforcement agencies and security forces continues, as does the related practice of unlawful detentions.\" The Council said it felt forced to make public its findings in light of the Russian authorities' \"failure to improve the situation\" despite detailed recommendations following the torture committee's visits to Chechnya the previous year.\n\nIn October 2004, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) agreed to try cases brought by Chechen civilians against the Russian government. As of November 2007, 35 cases were decided.\n\nThe first trial concluded in February 2005. The Court ruled that the Russian government violated several articles of the European Convention on Human Rights, including a clause on the protection of property, a guarantee of the right to life, and a ban on torture and inhumane or degrading treatment, and ordered the Russian government to pay compensation to the six plaintiffs of the case. The cases concerned the Russian federal forces' indiscriminate aerial bombing of a civilian convoy of refugees fleeing Grozny in October 1999; the \"disappearance\" and subsequent extrajudicial execution of five individuals in Grozny in January 2000; and the indiscriminate aerial and artillery bombardment of the village of Katyr-Yurt in February 2000. The compensations were not paid, NGOs claim that applicants to the court are met with repressions, including murders and disappearance. In the most dramatic period of 2000-2002 five plaintiffs died.\n\nIn summer 2006 the European Court on Human Rights decided the first cases concerning forced disappearances in Chechnya; it was excepted the decisions by the European Court might play an important role in changing Chechnya's terrible human rights situation, as more than 100 disappearance cases related to Chechnya are pending in the court. The cases included one where the court ordered Russia to pay 35,000 euros to the mother of Khadzhi-Murat Yandiyev for violating her son's \"right to life\" as well as failing \"to conduct an effective investigation\" into his February 2000 disappearance. Key evidence in the case, according to court documents, was video footage filmed by a reporter for NTV and CNN television showing Colonel-General Alexander Baranov, ordering soldiers to \"finish off\" and \"shoot\" Yandiyev; Baranov has since been promoted and awarded a Hero of Russia medal and made responsible for all Defense Ministry forces in the North Caucasus.\n\nOn October 12, 2006, the Court held Russian state responsible for the summary execution of the Estamirov family during the February 5, 2000 Novye Aldi massacre by the OMON forces. \"Russian and Chechen security forces should take this decision as a warning that the abuse and murder of innocent civilians cannot be met by impunity,\" said Europe and Central Asia director at Human Rights Watch. At least 11 other incidents of summary executions committed on the same day in the same region of Chechnya are pending before the Court.\n\nOn November 9, 2006, the Court ruled the Russian government complicit in the murder and abduction of three Chechen civilians, including a case on the disappearance and presumed death of two Chechens from the same family. The court sided with Marzet Imakayeva, a Chechen woman who fled Russia two years ago to seek asylum in the United States; it also said the way Imakayeva's complaints were dealt with by Russian authorities constituted \"inhuman treatment.\" The bodies of Imakayeva family members have never been found; in the other ruled case the abductee, Nura Luluyeva, turned up in a mass grave eight months later.\n\nOn January 8, 2007, the Court has condemned Russia in the first torture case from Chechnya to be heard by the ECHR. In its judgment, the Court held that the applicants Adam and Arbi Chitayev had been held in unacknowledged detention, that they had been subjected to torture, and that the Russian authorities have not properly investigated their allegations.\n\nA resolution adopted in April 2000 by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNCHR) called for Russia, among other things, to establish a \"national broad-based and independent commission of inquiry\" into abuse, with a view to bringing perpetrators to justice and preventing impunity. It was the first time in the UNHCR history it had criticized a permanent United Nations Security Council member. However, Russia has not fulfilled the resolution's requirements.\n\nOn April 20, 2001, the UNHCR adopted another resolution condemning human rights violations in Chechnya perpetrated by federal forces, citing \"forced disappearances, extrajudicial, summary and arbitrary executions, torture, and other inhuman and degrading treatment.\" The resolution called on Russia to \"ensure that both civilian and military prosecutor's offices undertake systematic, credible and exhaustive criminal investigations and prosecutions\" of all violations of international human rights and humanitarian law. It reiterated its requirement, also made in 2000 resolution, for Russia to establish a national commission of inquiry to investigate crimes in Chechnya; despite Russia's failure to create such a commission or ensure effective prosecutions after the 2000 resolution, the commission declined to call for the creation of an international commission of inquiry.\n\nIn April 2004 the Commission rejected another resolution on Chechnya. 23 of 53 countries voted against the resolution, while 12 countries voted for the resolution—mainly European Union countries. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said \"all attempts to depict the situation in Chechnya as a human rights problem have been unrealistic.\"\n\nOn February 22, 2006, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Louise Arbour, said she was deeply shocked by accounts of torture and kidnappings in Chechnya. She recommended the creation of an independent body to investigate crimes committed during the war.\n\nOn March 30, 2006, Manfred Nowak, the United Nations investigator on torture said that Moscow had agreed to let him visit Russia, including the troubled region—the first such trip by a UN torture envoy in more than a decade.\n\n"}
{"id": "28199497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28199497", "title": "John of Utynam", "text": "John of Utynam\n\nJohn of Utynam is the recipient of the first known English patent, granted in 1449 by King Henry VI. John was a master glass-maker from Flanders who came to England to make the windows for Eton College. The patent granted him a 20-year monopoly on the making of stained glass.\n\nThe Republic of Venice had begun issuing patents to glass-makers in the early 1420s.\n"}
{"id": "48811895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48811895", "title": "Law on euthanasia and assisted suicide", "text": "Law on euthanasia and assisted suicide\n\nThe Law on euthanasia and assisted suicide () is a law that came into force in 2009 in Luxembourg, legalising euthanasia.\n\nThe most important part of the law is the guarantee that doctors performing active euthanasia or assisting to commit suicide will not be liable to prosecution. The condition for this is that the patient should be terminally ill and in insufferable pain, and should voluntarily, deliberately and repeatedly confirm in writing their desire to end their own life. 16- to 18-year-olds may also request euthanasia if their parents or legal guardians consent. With patients who are not in a position to consent, a living will may suffice. Doctors must have several detailed conversations with the patient about their decision. They must also seek the opinion of a second doctor. All cases of euthanasia must be reviewed by a monitoring commission, which will contact a prosecutor if they find violations of the law.\n\nThe law used the Belgian Law on Euthanasia of 28 May 2002 as a model, and came into force on 17 March 2009 after its publication in the Grand Duchy's gazette, the \"Mémorial\". Luxembourg was the third European Union member state and the third state worldwide to legalise euthanasia.\n\nThe bill was introduced in the Chamber of Deputies by LSAP and Green members, and the Chamber approved the law at first reading on 19 February 2008 with 30 votes for, 26 against, and 3 abstentions. Before a law can come into force, its constitutionality must be reviewed by the Council of State. When this happened, the Council of State raised concerns due to legal uncertainties. It took the parliament until late 2008 to clear up these doubts. Finally, the law was approved again with 31 votes for, 26 against, and 3 abstentions on 18 December.\n\nIn addition, Grand-Duke Henri had announced his intention not to assent to the law for reasons of conscience. After Henri's refusal, the prime minister Jean-Claude Juncker agreed with all parties in the Chamber to enact a constitutional amendment which would strip the Grand-Duke of some of his power and would only leave him the right to promulgate laws the word \"approves\" in Article 34 of the Constitution would be deleted. The Chamber approved this amendment at first reading with 56 votes for and one abstention on 11 December 2008. A petition against the amendment failed on 11 February 2009 with only 796 rather than the necessary 25,000 signatures, and on 12 March all the 52 Deputies who were present approved the law at second reading. The Grand-Duke, who had to assent to a law for the last time, did so. Thus, the euthanasia law was promulgated with the signatures of the Grand-Duke and Health Minister Mars Di Bartolomeo.\n\n"}
{"id": "18545476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18545476", "title": "Low-profit limited liability company", "text": "Low-profit limited liability company\n\nA low-profit limited liability company (L3C) is a legal form of business entity in the United States that was created to bridge the gap between non-profit and for-profit investing by providing a structure that facilitates investments in socially beneficial, for-profit ventures by simplifying compliance with Internal Revenue Service rules for program-related investments, a type of investment that private foundations are allowed to make.\n\nAn L3C is a for-profit, social enterprise venture that has a stated goal of performing a socially beneficial purpose, not maximizing income. It is a hybrid structure that combines the legal and tax flexibility of a traditional LLC, the social benefits of a nonprofit organization, and the branding and market positioning advantages of a social enterprise. The L3C is obligated to be mission-driven so there is a clear order of priorities for its fiduciaries.\n\nThe L3C is designed to make it easier for socially oriented businesses to attract investments from foundations and additional money from private investors. Unlike the traditional LLC, the L3C's articles of organization are required by law to mirror the federal tax standards for program-related investing. A program-related investment (PRI) is one way in which foundations can satisfy their obligation under the Tax Reform Act of 1969 to distribute at least 5% of their assets every year for charitable purposes. While foundations usually meet this requirement through grants, investments in L3Cs and charities that qualify as PRIs can also fulfill the requirement while allowing the foundations to receive a return.\n\nAn L3C is established pursuant to the law of the state in which the entity is formed. To authorize the organization of an L3C, legislation must be passed that amends the state's general limited liability company law. Thus far, legislation has been passed in Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Michigan, North Carolina (authorizing legislation repealed in 2013), North Dakota, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, and Wyoming and the federal jurisdictions of the Crow Indian Nation of Montana and the Oglala Sioux Tribe. As of January 11, 2013, the Secretaries of State of the ten states and two Indian Nations that authorize them reported that 711 active L3Cs are in operation. HB 1299 was introduced on January 14, 2013 in North Dakota, which would authorize the organization of L3Cs. Legislation has been written for 26 additional states but has not yet been introduced.\n\nIn May, 2012, the IRS released proposed regulations that broaden the landscape of what constitutes an acceptable PRI by adding nine new examples of investments that would qualify, along with some general principles. An amendment to the Illinois L3C law that would allow for a more expansive description of the purposes for which L3Cs can be created, consistent with the proposed examples of PRIs set forth by the IRS in 2012, unanimously passed the Illinois Senate on April 17, 2013, and has been referred to the Illinois House Rules Committee. The expanded clause would make Illinois the first state to authorize L3Cs whose purposes may reflect the whole range of statutorily sanctioned PRIs to include religious, scientific, and literary organizations. Legislation is also pending at federal level that will simplify the process for receiving IRS approval that an investment qualifies as a PRI.\n\nAs of January 1, 2014, North Carolina no longer authorizes L3Cs; however, current L3Cs can continue to use the designation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3382226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3382226", "title": "Merchet", "text": "Merchet\n\nMerchet Also: -ett, -ete, -eit, -eat, -iett, -i(e)te, -iatte, mershet(e, marchet, -eit, market was a fine paid on a marriage during the Middle Ages in England. The word derives from the plural form of daughter, \"merched\", in old Welsh. Merchet was payment to a peasant's lord, whether by the persons marrying, or by a father for his son or daughter, or by a brother for his sister. Theories regarding the practice include recompense for the loss of a worker, but one idea most prominent when the word \"merchet\" was used, is that of ransom--and not necessarily the ransom of a female. Merchet is the ransom of flesh and blood, more often, perhaps, of the peasant's daughter or sister than of his son. All the curious theories which have grown up around the term, on the assumption that it had relation only to girls, are unfounded mainly because of the incorrect term assigned to the practice. The etymology of the term must be sought not in the root of any word having reference to maids or daughters in particular, but in the root of an unknown word having reference to blood, to purchase, to redemption or enfranchisement, or the price paid for it, or to a particular kind of tax, fine, impost, or exaction.\n"}
{"id": "27599761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27599761", "title": "National Arbitration and Mediation", "text": "National Arbitration and Mediation\n\nNational Arbitration and Mediation (NAM) is a provider of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) services, including Arbitration and Mediation NAM provides services to business entities and individuals who seek to resolve their dispute/conflict outside of the court system. The company maintains rosters of neutrals in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and in major cities around the world. NAM Neutrals consist of former Judges and attorney specialists with subject-matter expertise in a wide array of practice areas.\n\nNAM was founded in 1992 by Roy Israel, its President and CEO, and is headquartered in Garden City, New York. The company went public in 1996 and was a NASDAQ-listed company owned by public shareholders. In early 2005, it was privatized and remains so to this day.\n\nNAM offers Mediation, Arbitration, Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), conflict resolution, Settlement conferences, Discovery Referees, Litigation Management, Baseball Arbitration, High/Low Arbitration, Complex multi-party Dispute Resolution, In Person Hearings, Hearings/Trial by Written Submission, National and International Initiatives, Online and Offline Case Management, Trial Preparation Services, Mock Jury Trials, Dispute Resolution Training, Videoconferencing, myADR, CLE (Continuing Legal Education).\nSubject areas include: Personal Injury, Product Liability, Negligence, Toxic Tort, Business/Commercial, Bankruptcy, Breach of Contract, Franchise, Professional Liability/Malpractice(Medical Malpractice, Podiatric Malpractice, Dental Malpractice, Nursing Home, Attorney/Legal Malpractice, Accounting Malpractice, Architectural, Director and Officer), Employment (Harassment, Discrimination, Wrongful Termination, Wage & Hour, FLSA, Retaliation, Family and Medical Leave Act, Title VII, Severance Contracts, Non-Compete Agreements, ERISA), Labor, Union and Collective Bargaining, Legal Ethics, Art Law, Banking & Finance, Bankruptcy, Insurance Coverage, Environmental, Land Use, Construction, Civil Rights, Real Estate Disputes, Landlord/Tenant, Partnership Disputes, Dissolution Proceedings, Intellectual Property (Copyright, Trademark, Patent, Infringement, Trade Secrets), E-Discovery, Consumer Transactions and Claims, Cruise Line Disputes (Seafarer and Crew Member claims, Passenger Ticket Contract) Trust & Estates, Matrimonial, Sports Law, Entertainment Law, International Law, Maritime Law/Jones Act, Negligence, Premises Liability, Property/Land Law/Leasing, Securities/Financial, Government/Public Agency, International, Life Health & Disability.\n\nFor the third year in a row, NAM was named the #1 ADR firm in the United States by the 2018 National Law Journal Reader Rankings Annual Survey (with 4 years ranked #1). 2 of NAM's Mediators were voted in the Top 3 in that same survey.\n"}
{"id": "13844257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13844257", "title": "National Sanitary Surveillance Agency", "text": "National Sanitary Surveillance Agency\n\nBrazilian Health Regulatory Agency (in Portuguese, Agência Nacional de Vigilância Sanitária) is a regulatory body of the Brazilian government, created in 1999 during President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's term of office. It is responsible for the regulation and approval of pharmaceutical drugs, sanitary standards and regulation of the food industry.\n\nThe agency bills itself as \"an independently administered, financially autonomous\" regulatory body. It is administered by a five-member collegiate board of directors, who oversee five thematic directorates, assisted by a five-tier oversight structure.\n"}
{"id": "3975634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3975634", "title": "National Service Act 1964", "text": "National Service Act 1964\n\nThe National Service Act (1964), was an Australian federal law, passed on 24 November 1964, which required 20-year-old males to serve in the Army for a period of twenty-four months of continuous service (reduced to eighteen months in 1971) followed by three years in the Reserve. The Defence Act was amended in May 1965 to provide that conscripts could be obliged to serve overseas, and in March 1966 Prime Minister Harold Holt announced that National Servicemen would be sent to Vietnam to fight in units of the Australian Regular Army. \n\nOn 5 November 1964 Cabinet decided to introduce a compulsory selective National Service scheme. In announcing this decision to Parliament, Prime Minister Robert Menzies referred to 'aggressive Communism', developments in Asia such as 'recent Indonesian policies and actions' and a 'deterioration in our strategic position' as being influential in the decision being reached (see Parliamentary Debates, House of Representatives, 25th Parliament, 1st Session, pp. 2517–2724). The Government had concluded that Australia had inadequate defence manpower and aimed to increase the strength of the Army to 33,000 by the end of 1966 by introducing national service.\n\nBetween 1965 and December 1972 over 800,000 men registered for National Service. Some 63,000 were conscripted and over 19,000 served in Vietnam. Although registration was compulsory, a process of selection by ballot determined who would be called up. Two ballots were conducted each year. The ballots selected several dates in the selected period and all males with corresponding birthdays were called up for national service. The ballot was conducted using a lottery barrel and marbles representing birthdays.\n\nConscription ended as one of the first acts of the newly elected Whitlam Labor Government in December 1972.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3148988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3148988", "title": "National Transitional Legislative Assembly of Liberia", "text": "National Transitional Legislative Assembly of Liberia\n\nThe National Transitional Legislative Assembly (NTLA) was Liberia's legislative body during the country's transition from civil war to democratic rule (October 2003–January 2006).\n\nThe NTLA was created as part of an August 2003 peace agreement that ended a civil war between government forces of President Charles Taylor and two rebel groups - Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy (LURD) and the Movement for Democracy in Liberia (MODEL). It also called for the creation of a broad-based transitional government that would rule for two years, ending with the holding of elections in October 2005 and the installation of a democratically elected government by January 2006.\n\nThe NTLA replaced the bicameral Legislature, which was elected in 1997. It consisted of 76 appointed members representing the Taylor government, rebel groups, political parties, and civil society. The distribution of seats among these groups is as follows:\n\nNote: Civil Society and Special Interest Groups included the National Bar Association, Liberian business organizations, Women's organizations, Trade unions, Teachers unions, Liberians in the Diaspora, and Youth organizations.\n\nAccording to the 2003 peace agreement, the responsibilities of the National Transitional Legislative Assembly were to:\n\nThe NTLA was led by a Speaker and Deputy Speaker elected by Assembly members.\n\nGeorge Dweh, a founding member of LURD and Eddington Varmah, a Justice Minister in the Taylor government were elected unopposed as Speaker and Deputy Speaker in October 2003. Both were suspended indefinitely on 14 March 2005, along with two other members, for spending money without proper authorization. A vote held on 17 March resulted in George Koukou being elected acting Speaker and David Gbala chosen as Deputy Speaker. Koukou received 39 votes while his only opponent Fayah Gbollie, a former presidential candidate and representative of the Free Democratic Party (FDP), won 4.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31377778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31377778", "title": "Nazril Irham", "text": "Nazril Irham\n\nNazril Irham, more popularly known as Ariel (born September 16, 1981), is an Indonesian rock star. He is the lead singer of Indonesian band Noah (former name Peterpan). Ariel is of Malay descent from his father's side and Minangkabau from his mother's side. He has appeared in advertisements. He was arrested in 2010 on charges relating to celebrity sex tapes found circulating on the internet after his laptop was stolen.\n\nAriel formed the bands named Sliver, Cholesterol and Topi. All broke up in the middle of the road.\n\nThe Bill against Pornography and Pornoaction came into effect in Indonesia in 2008. In June 2010 Ariel was charged with breaking the law by appearing in two sex videos found on the Internet. Ariel claims the tapes were stolen from his house and posted online without his consent, but the judge said the pop star did nothing to prevent their widespread distribution.\n\nTV presenter Luna Maya and soap opera star Cut Tari denied being the women in the videos. On July 9, 2011, Cut Tari finally admitted to being in one of three sex videos. Her lawyer Hotman Paris Hutapea said her client had confessed to featuring in the video with band lead singer Nazril 'Ariel' Ilham. The confession made as his client did not want to preempt the police's investigation into the case. The sex video prompted an outpouring of criticism from conservative Muslims.\n\nAriel was held in custody from his arrest until his trial, in Bandung, West Java, which began in November 2010. On 31 January 2011 a guilty verdict resulted in three years in prison. The video could also result in prosecution under a law banning adultery, owing to Cut Tari having been married at the time it was made in 2006. The two women were not charged.\n\nOn 31 January 2011, Ariel was sentenced to 3½ years behind bars and fined 250 million rupiah (US$28,000). Prosecutors had asked for a five-year sentence. The maximum sentence possible for the charges was 12 years. On 25 April 2011 the Bandung High Court rejected his appeal.\nOn 23 July 2012, after serving two years in prison, Ariel was released early for good behaviour.\n\nThe scandal became a popular topic — known as Ariel Peterporn Tape — on social-networking sites like Facebook and Twitter, causing police to raid internet cafés and school administrators to check students' mobile phones for the sex videos. Communications and Information Technology Minister Tifatul Sembiring engaged in a Twitter debate after suggesting that the possibility of mistaken identity was similar to the Muslim belief that a lookalike of Jesus of Nazareth had been crucified; he stated that the internet could \"destroy\" the nation.\n\nThe Lux brand soap ads featuring Luna Maya were pulled from distribution following the leak of the video allegedly showing her.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51803825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51803825", "title": "People v. Gleghorn", "text": "People v. Gleghorn\n\nPeople v. Gleghorn, California Court of Appeal, 193 Cal. App. 3d 196, 238 Cal. Rptr. 82 (1987), is a legal case illustrative of when a defendant forfeits his right to self-defense, because his own uncharged culpable acts set in motion the conditions in which self-defense would be needed; he caused the condition of his own defense. This principle put forth by the court as to the underlying murder case was generalized to other kinds of cases. \n\nThe court wrote: \n\nThis principle put forth by the court as to the underlying murder case was generalized to other kinds of cases \"where the actor is not only culpable as to causing the defense conditions, but also has a culpable state of mind \"as to causing himself to engage in the conduct constituting the offense\", the state should punish him for causing the ultimate justified or excused conduct.\"\n\nIn its opinion, the court noted the unusual nature of the underlying facts in the case:\n"}
{"id": "1370857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1370857", "title": "Phill Kline", "text": "Phill Kline\n\nPhillip D. Kline (born December 31, 1959) is a former Kansas state legislator (1992-2000), former district attorney of Johnson County, and the Attorney General of Kansas from January 2003 to January 2007. Kline, a member of the Republican Party, lost re-election as attorney general to Democratic challenger, Johnson County District Attorney Paul Morrison, on November 7, 2006, 58%-41%.\n\nHaving been appointed by the Republican County Central Committee over Steve Howe to fill the vacancy left by Paul Morrison's election as Kansas Attorney General, Kline became the district attorney of Johnson County on the day he left office as attorney general, essentially switching jobs with Morrison. Kline then ran for a full term as district attorney, but was defeated by Howe in the August 5, 2008, Republican primary.\n\nOn October 18, 2013, Kline's Kansas law license was indefinitely suspended by the Kansas Supreme Court, which held in a written opinion that there was \"clear and convincing evidence\" that Kline committed 11 violations of conduct rules while he was the state's top law enforcement officer from January 2003 to January 2007 and later as Johnson County's District Attorney.\n\nWhile in office, Kline served as Chairman of the Republican Attorneys' General Association, Co-Chairman of the National Violent Sexual Predator Apprehension Task Force, President of the Midwest Association of Attorneys General, Prosecutor of the Year for the National Alliance of the Mentally Ill and Executive Committee Member of the National Association of Attorneys General.\nKline was a polarizing figure in state politics, largely surrounding the issue of abortion. He filed charges against Dr. George Tiller, a late-term abortion provider, and led a years-long effort to prosecute Planned Parenthood in Kansas, which he said had failed to submit reports when young women (15 and younger) came to get abortions.\n\nKline is currently an assistant professor at Liberty University, an evangelical fundamentalist college in Lynchburg, Virginia.\n\nBorn in Kansas City, Kansas, Kline grew up in Shawnee, a community on the Kansas side of the Kansas City Metropolitan Area. He was the third of five children; his father abandoned the family when Kline was five years old, leaving his mother to be a single parent.\n\nKline graduated from Shawnee Mission Northwest High School and subsequently attended the University of Central Missouri in Warrensburg, Missouri, where he became an active member of Phi Sigma Epsilon fraternity (now Phi Sigma Kappa). He was a member of the varsity wrestling team with a partial wrestling scholarship, and a member of the cross country team. He earned a B.S. in business communications in 1982. During college, he worked as a weekend radio DJ in Clinton, Missouri and as a summer news broadcaster for Kansas City, Missouri, AM radio station WHB. \n\nOn Friday, July 17, 1981 he was broadcasting live from the Hyatt Regency Kansas City in Kansas City, Missouri, when two vertically contiguous walkways collapsed onto a Tea Dance being held in the hotel's lobby. The falling walkways killed 114 and injured a further 216 people. At the time, it was the deadliest structural collapse in U.S. history. After graduating college, he worked in public relations for the Worlds of Fun and Oceans of Fun amusement parks in Kansas City in order to save money for law school.\n\nKline received his J.D. from the University of Kansas School of Law in 1987, and was an Associate Editor for the \"Kansas Law Review\". He entered private practice as an associate with Blackwell Sanders, a large firm in Kansas City specializing in corporate law. He married his wife, Deborah, in 1989, and settled in Shawnee close to where he grew up. The Klines have one daughter, Hillary, born in 1992. They are members of the Central Church of the Nazarene in Lenexa, Kansas.\n\nAfter leaving Blackwell Sanders, Kline hosted two radio programs: \"The Phill and Mary Show\" on Kansas City AM station KMBZ, and \"Face Off With Phill Kline\" on Topeka AM station WIBW. He also served as the finance director of the Johnson County Republican Committee.\n\nWhile still a law student, Kline ran for U.S. Congress in 1986. Kline won the Republican primary election but was defeated in the general election by the incumbent, Democrat Jim Slattery. In 1992, Kline won election to the Kansas House of Representatives, where he represented the 18th District. which included Shawnee. There, he chaired the House Appropriations Committee and was a member of several oversight committees. He was a member of the advisory committee for Kansas Senator Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign. Kline remained in the Kansas House until 2000, when he ran for election to the United States House of Representatives, seeking the Third District seat held by Democratic Congressman Dennis Moore. Although Kline won the Republican primary, he lost the general election to Moore, 184,050 to 145,542 votes, 54.8% to 43.3%.\n\nIn 2002, Kline won election as attorney general of Kansas, defeating fellow Republican David Adkins of Leawood in the primary and Democrat Chris Biggs of Junction City in the general election. On becoming attorney general, Kline and his family moved to Topeka.\n\nIn December 2005 and April 2006, he successfully argued before the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Kansas v. Marsh\", wherein the Court reversed a ruling made by the Kansas Supreme Court that the state's death penalty was unconstitutional.\n\nIn 2005, Kline began investigating possible cases of child rape and illegal partial-birth and late-term abortions. In doing so, Kline requested the redacted medical records (without names) of 90 women and girls who either gave birth to a child or had an abortion. His office was ultimately granted these redacted records by the Kansas Supreme Court.\n\nOn December 21, 2006, Kline charged abortion provider Dr. George Tiller with more than 30 misdemeanors, most involving abortions Tiller allegedly performed on minors. But just hours after the charges were unsealed, a Sedgwick County judge threw them out \"at the request of Sedgwick County District Attorney Nola Foulston, who said her office had not been consulted by Kline.\" However, on June 28, 2007, a 19-count indictment was unexpectedly filed against Tiller by Kline's successor, Paul J. Morrison. On March 27, 2009, Dr. Tiller was found not guilty of all 19 misdemeanor charges stemming from some abortions he performed at his Wichita clinic in 2003. Despite the acquittal, Tiller was charged on December 12, 2008 by the Kansas Board of Healing Arts (KBHA) on 11 counts of illegal late-term abortions. The board had many appointees of anti-abortion Governor Sam Brownback, including a member from Operation Rescue West (ORW). On May 31, 2009, while serving as an usher at his church's Sunday morning services, Tiller was assassinated by Scott Roeder, an ORW member who had the cell phone number of convicted clinic arsonist Cheryl Sullenger, on a post-it note on his dashboard when he was apprehended fleeing, a few hours after the murder.\n\nIn a related matter, Kline was named a defendant in a suit brought in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas challenging a state law requiring \"doctors and other professionals\" to report \"all consensual underage sexual activity as sexual abuse.\" On April 18, 2006, Judge J. Thomas Marten agreed and issued a permanent injunction, ruling that such a policy violated the children's rights to informational privacy and could not be justified by Kansas law.\n\nIn 2006, Kline and Operation Rescue claimed that Robert A. Estrada, an alleged rapist, was captured with the help of abortion clinic medical records subpoenaed as a result of Kline's investigation. The District Attorney who prosecuted Estrada challenged Operation Rescue's claims, stating that Kline and the records had no involvement in the prosecution.\n\nKline was suspended from practicing law due to the fact that he illegally accessed private medical records of women who made the choice to have an abortion. He obtained some records provided on his demand to Dr. Kristin Neuhaus, whose prosecution he pursued after Dr. Tiller's assassination, and illegally disclosed them, including discussing them with disgraced Fox News host Bill O'Reilly on television. The Kansas Supreme Court stated:\"Ultimately, we unanimously conclude the weight of the aggravating factors—i.e., Kline's inability or refusal to acknowledge the line between overzealous advocacy and operating within the bounds of the law and his professional obligations; his selfish motives; and his lengthy and substantial pattern of misconduct—weigh more heavily than the mitigating factors and merit his indefinite suspension.\" \n\nDuring his tenure, in the case of \"State v. Limon\", Kline defended a Kansas law which provided substantially higher sentencing guidelines for acts of homosexual statutory rape compared to equivalent heterosexual acts. A Kansas trial court upheld the law, the Kansas Court of Appeals affirmed that decision, and the Supreme Court of Kansas declined to hear the case. The party challenging the law was barely 18 at the time of the offense, and both Limon and the other boy were residents of a home for the mentally disabled. Kline had repeatedly referred to the older boy as a \"predator.\" His counsel applied to the Supreme Court of the United States for a writ of certiorari.\n\nIn June 2003, the Supreme Court issued a GVR Order, remanding the case for reconsideration in light of the Supreme Court's then-recent decision in \"Lawrence v. Texas\", which held that a similar Texas law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment. The Attorney General's office continued to pursue the matter, seeking to distinguish the Kansas law from the Texas law. The Kansas Court of Appeals upheld the earlier decision 2-1, but the Kansas Supreme Court ruled unanimously in favor of Limon and overturned his conviction in 2005. By the time of his release he had served 5½ years of a seventeen-year sentence. If the participants had been of opposite sexes, the maximum sentence for the older one would have only been 15 months.\n\nKline ran for re-election as attorney general in 2006. On November 7, 2006, he lost to Democratic challenger and Johnson County District Attorney Paul J. Morrison. Kline received 41 percent of the vote. To oppose Kline in the general election, Morrison had changed his political affiliation from Republican to Democratic in the fall of 2005.\n\nOn December 11, 2006, Johnson County Republican Precinct committeepersons narrowly selected Kline over fellow Republican Steve Howe to serve the remaining two years of Morrison's term as county district attorney. With 60% of the vote, Howe defeated Kline in the August 5, 2008 Republican primary for a full term as district attorney.\n\nIn late September 2006, an internal election campaign memo from Kline to his campaign staff was leaked to The Interfaith Alliance and quickly was picked up by bloggers, resulting in much discussion and controversy. In the memo, Kline tells his staff how to form a campaign committee for him at each church that will educate and register voters, \"encourage people to contribute and volunteer,\" and network with their own email lists. Kline has defended the memo and the mobilization of churches it calls for, insisting it does not violate IRS regulations governing the tax-exempt status of churches, under which a church stands to lose its tax-exempt status for officially supporting a political candidate, if the Commissioner of Internal Revenue so determines.\n\nKCTV, a Kansas City CBS affiliate, aired an investigative report that addressed accusations that Kline did not reside within Johnson County as required by state law, and that he spent an inadequate amount of time at the district attorney's office. He had rented a small apartment in Stilwell, and was registered to vote from that location. The KCTV reporters said in their report they were unable to observe Kline or his family at the address. On two occasions, Kline was tailed by reporters from Johnson County back to Topeka, the location of his primary residence. \nThe Johnson County Sheriff's Office initially refused KCTV-5 access to records that log ID card passes at the Johnson County Courthouse garage, citing security concerns. Through exercise of the Freedom of Information Act, KCTV initially received redacted and incomplete records via the Johnson County Sheriff's Office. According to the report, the security system only saves 90 days worth of data and purged much of the electronic records in question. The KCTV report, based on the incomplete records, also suggested that Kline spent an inadequate amount of time in the Johnson Country District Attorney's Office, averaging only 29 hours per week. KCTV5 devoted an entire 10pm newscast to deal with criticisms leveled at KCTV5's handling of the investigation the following day.\n\nIn January, 2009, Kline left Kansas to become a visiting professor at the Liberty University School of Law, in Lynchburg, Virginia. He is now an associate professor at the school, which has combined with the Jesse Helms School of Government.\n\nIn 2010 the Kansas Supreme Court Disciplinary Administrator brought formal professional ethics charges against Kline before the Kansas Supreme Court based on perjury, an illegal file transfer, misleading legal guidance that Kline had provided to the grand jury in the Johnson County clinic case, the O'Reilly appearance, and several other matters. Kline's ethics trial began on February 21, 2011. He testified that he had the right to deceive state agencies to gain information in abortion investigations and that he had no duty to promptly notify a trial judge that he had provided flawed information.\n\nOn October 13, 2011, the Kansas state Board of Discipline of Attorneys recommended that Kline's law license be indefinitely suspended, citing a pattern of repeatedly misleading statements, \"dishonest and selfish motives\", and a failure to \"take any responsibility for his misconduct.\" Kline disputed the Board's findings as politically motivated. The recommendation to suspend his license went to the state's Supreme Court, where Kline's demands resulted in the unusual recusal of five Justices and a substitute appeals court judge from the case. The court indefinitely suspended Kline's law license on October 18, 2013. The costs to the taxpayers of defending his license came to nearly $600,000.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court -- the only level of federal court which could overrule the state supreme court decision -- announced on April 28, 2014 that it was declining to hear Kline's request to review the suspension of his Kansas license to practice law.\nHowever, Kline continued to pursue the matter as a federal case, in federal District court, where he lost in 2016. He then appealed that decision to the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver -- losing again, July 3, 2017, by the decision of a three-judge panel who refused to allow the case to be reopened in federal court.\n"}
{"id": "34198284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34198284", "title": "Plain Green Loans", "text": "Plain Green Loans\n\nPlain Green Loans is an online installment loan company providing emergency cash via the internet. It is a Tribal Lending Enterprise owned by the Chippewa Cree Tribe on the Rocky Boy Indian Reservation. Plain Green Loans (PGL) is a online resource for the short-term financial needs of underbanked and subprime consumers. By offering bi-weekly and monthly installment loans, Plain Green helps consumers meet their emergency, cash-flow needs quickly and online. Plain Green markets, underwrites, and services its own portfolio.\n\nIn 2011, Plain Green Loans issued over 121,000 loans. Because the Chippewa Cree Tribe is a sovereign nation which enjoys tribal immunity, it is not subject to state laws which seek to prevent usury by regulating high-interest lending.\n\nIn February 2012, a coalition of Indian tribes welcomed a Colorado court ruling that tribal immunity has no territorial boundaries.\n\nIn 2014, several members of the tribe were convicted of illegally siphoning seven percent of the company's revenues which totaled $25 million over a three-year period.\nIn January 2018, there was a successful settlement was reported between Plain Green Loans and BEH Gaming Ltd related to loans to the Chippewa Cree Tribe and Chippewa Cree Tribe Development Corporation. The settlement and Plain Green’s payment of the debt to BEH releases the Chippewa Cree Tribe and Chippewa Cree Tribe Development Corporation from all liability. The agreement settles a lawsuit filed by Florida-based BEH Gaming Ltd in 2014 (Case # DV-14-142 in the 12th Judicial District Court in Hill County, Montana) to repay loans to expand Northern Winz Hotel and Casino. \n\nPlain Green has a B rating with the Better Business Bureau\"\n"}
{"id": "9407399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9407399", "title": "Princess Elisabeth Antarctica", "text": "Princess Elisabeth Antarctica\n\nPrincess Elisabeth Antarctica, located on Utsteinen Nunatak in Queen Maud Land (), is a Belgian scientific polar research station, which went into service on February 15, 2009. \n\nThe station, designed, built and operated by the International Polar Foundation, is the first polar base that combines eco-friendly construction materials, clean and efficient energy use, optimization of the station's energy consumption and clever waste-management techniques.\n\nTesting phase in Brussels and building construction in Antarctica was coordinated by Belgian main contractor BESIX.\nThe station is built against a ridge (The Utsteinen ridge) that is exposed to gales of up to . The station can withstand such strong winds through its aerodynamic shape and its foundation anchoring of several metres deep into the permafrost. Philippe Samyn, a Belgian architect, was involved in designing the shell and underlying structure. The upper deck of the building is the actual station and looks over the ridge edge. The lower deck contains a garage for snowcat vehicles and other utilities. \n\nThe Princess Elisabeth base is the only zero-emission base on the Antarctic, and runs entirely on solar and wind energy through the use of a micro smart grid. The station is connected to nine wind turbines that stretch out along the Utsteinen ridge. It houses up to 16 scientists at a time. \n\nThe station is named after Princess Elisabeth, Duchess of Brabant, the eldest daughter of King Philippe of Belgium.\n\nThere was a protracted dispute between the government of Belgium and Alain Hubert as to which party controls the base. The Belgian Government has alleged financial mismanagement by the base's private operators, the International Polar Foundation. Disputes over ownership and control of the base have led to a reduction in scientific research being undertaken at the base. As per \"L'Echo\", the head of the Belgian Federal Science Policy Office, René Delcourt, has stated that no Belgian scientists would be sent to the station in 2017.\n\nThe dispute was resolved on 9 June 2017 as a judgement ruled by the Belgian Council of State. Publicly announced on June 30, 2017 as the \"Pax Antarctica\", the settlement between the International Polar Foundation and the Belgian government includes the Belgian government fully owning the base, the International Polar Foundation receiving contracts to operate the base for the next six years, and a cessation of all legal proceedings. Research work resumed in November 2017, with 24 scientists from 12 different countries expected at the base. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4354235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4354235", "title": "Principles of European Tort Law", "text": "Principles of European Tort Law\n\nThe Principles of European Tort Law (PETL) are a compilation of guidelines by the European Group on Tort Law aiming at the harmonization of European tort law. They are not intended to serve as a model code, even though their wording may resemble statutory texts. At least with respect to form and structure, they resemble a U.S. Restatement of the Law.\n\nThe Principles of European Tort Law are intended to serve as a common framework for the further development of national tort laws and also of singular European legislation, which could avoid a further drifting-apart of piecemeal rule-making both on a national and on the European level.\n\n"}
{"id": "51230569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51230569", "title": "Recognition (family law)", "text": "Recognition (family law)\n\nRecognition is the process in some jurisdictions whereby a man is recognised as the father of a child in situations where there is no presumption of paternity, generally due to the mother being unwed. Historically due to the Roman law principle of \"Mater semper certa est\" (the mother is always certain) this action was not available to mothers, but since the introduction of in-vitro fertilisation this has changed. It is an act that confers legitimacy on the child.\n\nWhen a child is born the mother is known, but the father is not certain. When the mother is married, the husband is presumed to be the father (see presumption of legitimacy). When the mother is unmarried, some jurisdictions require the father to take extra steps to be recognised as the father, the presumption of paternity does not apply. The laws vary between jurisdictions but common themes are:\nThere is no requirement that the recogniser actually be the biological father. In fact, if the child already has a legal father (by the presumption of paternity or by prior recognition) the biological father may not be allowed to recognise their own biological child unless the legal father voluntarily denies fatherhood; a child may only have one legal father. This can happen in cases where the presumed father discovers a child is not their biological child (see paternity fraud). In this case the law holds the rights of the \"social father\" above those of the \"biological father\".\n\nIn all cases it is a voluntary act by the father to recognise a child.\n\nArticle 199 of Book 1 of the Burgerlijk Wetboek determines that the man who recognises a child becomes the child's legal father. This can be done by a public instrument, or by an \"act of recognition\", completed by a officer of the Register office. It also the lists situations where 'recognition' may be considered invalid.\nThe requirement for the mother to consent can be overridden by a court, but only if the recogniser is the biological father, or if the lifelong partner of the mother consented to an act that could have led to the birth of the child, unless it would disrupt the relationship between the mother and the child, or it would not be in the best interests of the child.\n\nThe act of recognising a child does not automatically grant legal guardianship, this must be applied for separately via court order.\n\nSince 2014 the act of recognition is also available to women who wish to be recognised as the mother of a child born to another women, for example if they are in a lesbian relationship.\n\nIn 2012 over 90% of all children of unwed mothers were recognised before the first year of age. Of the children born in 2000 only 9% remained unrecognised in 2012.\n\nDenial of fatherhood is possible, but only if the presumed father is not the biological father. This procedure can be initiated by any of the father, the mother or the child.\n\nRecognition in Belgium is set out in Article 315 and subsequent articles of the Belgian Burgerlijk Wetboek. \nIf the man/woman recognising a child is married to someone other than the legal mother of the child, then the act of recognition cannot be enforced until the spouse has been notified.\n\nA challenge to the presumed legal fatherhood can be started:\nA challenge cannot succeed if the legal father is the social father; that is, they act as a father toward the child, and they are considered the father by others (in \"possession of status\" – \"\").\n\nWhether the parents are married or not, maternal affiliation is automatically established once the name of the woman is on the birth certificate. By contrast, if the parents are not married to each other, the presumption of paternity does not apply. By article 312 and the following articles of the Civil Code, paternity may be assumed in this case by a man wishing to recognise the child, by a declaration made in a public instrument before:\nRecognition can be done before birth (\"déclaration sur le ventre\"), during the declaration of birth or afterwards.\n\nFrance recognises the possibility of anonymous birth for unwed women, in which case the mother's name does not appear on the birth certificate. In this case recognition by the mother after the fact is also possible.\n\nThe legal framework for the recognition of paternity is defined in section 1594 of the German Civil Code.\n\nA child has in certain circumstances (initially) no legal father. This is always the case where no legal presumption of paternity exists, for example if at the time of birth the mother is unmarried or divorced or the marriage is legally annulled, or if the husband is deceased more than 300 days before the child's birth. The same applies to a child whose origin is unclear (a foundling) or if the previous paternity in the context of paternity fraud was excluded.\n\nIn these cases, an recognition of paternity by a man together with the consent of the child's mother results in the legal paternity of the child. Whether the recogniser is also the biological father of the child is irrelevant; the legislature intended to create with the process of the recognition of paternity the possibility for legal paternity for men that fill an actual father role (\"social father\"), in the absence of a biological father (for example in blended families). The act of recognition is not an assertion by a man that he is in fact the biological father of the child.\n\nFamily and Guardianship Code in art. 64 indicates that the recognition of paternity can occur if\nIn the case of any of the above two situations, paternity can occur by the acknowledgement of paternity by the father or by judgement of a court.\n\nThe statement necessary to establish paternity may be submitted by a person if they are at least 16 years of age and there are no grounds for legal incapacitation.\n\nIf a man having recognised paternity does not have full legal capacity, he may make a statement necessary for the recognition of paternity only before a court guardianship.\n"}
{"id": "1520287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1520287", "title": "Regulation Fair Disclosure", "text": "Regulation Fair Disclosure\n\nRegulation FD (Fair Disclosure), ordinarily referred to as Regulation FD or Reg FD, is a regulation that was promulgated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in August 2000. The regulation is codified as . Although \"FD\" stands for \"fair disclosure,\" as can be learned from the adopting release, the regulation was and is codified in the Code of Federal Regulations simply as Regulation FD. Subject to certain limited exceptions, the rules generally prohibit public companies from disclosing previously nonpublic, material information to certain parties unless the information is distributed to the public first or simultaneously.\n\nThe regulation sought to stamp out selective disclosure, in which some investors (often large institutional investors) received market moving information before others (often smaller, individual investors), and were allowed to trade on it. Under Regulation FD, selective disclosure may be made so long as the company firsts collects a confidentiality agreement from the other party (or the other party is already subject to a duty of trust and confidence). Although the agreement need not include an undertaking not to trade on the information, the regulation was heavily driven by a desire to make it easier to prosecute recipients of selective information for insider trading, because in many instances only persons who owe such a duty are subject to such prosecution. Thus, the SEC explained in the Proposing Release: \n\n\"To make clear the scope of the Regulation, paragraph (b) of Rule 100 expressly states that the Rule does not apply to disclosures of material information to persons who are bound by duties of trust or confidence not to disclose or use the information for trading. Paragraph (b) expressly refers to several types of persons whose misuse of the information would subject them to insider trading liability under Rule 10b-5: (1) \"temporary\" insiders of an issuer – e.g., outside consultants, such as its attorneys, investment bankers, or accountants;42 and (2) any other person who has expressly agreed to maintain the information in confidence, and whose misuse of the information for trading would thus be covered either under the \"temporary insider\" or \"misappropriation\" theory.\" \n\nThus, in essence, there is an exception to Regulation FD that allows disclosure to anyone who is an insider, or becomes a \"temporary insider,\" subject to insider trading prohibitions.\n\nOn April 2, 2013, the Securities and Exchange Commission said companies can use social media to disseminate information if certain requirements are met. As with company websites, investors’ access to the chosen social media platform must not be restricted and investors must be notified about which social media will be used to disseminate information. \n\nBefore the 1990s, most individual investors followed the progress of their stock holdings by receiving phone calls from their broker, by reading annual or quarterly reports mailed to them by the company, by reading news in newspapers or financial publications, or by calling the company with questions. Most investors relied primarily upon full service brokers, such as Merrill Lynch, for trading advice.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Internet usage became widespread and online discount brokers such as Charles Schwab, E-Trade and Ameritrade allowed individual investors to trade stocks online at the push of a button. At the same time, these investors began using the Internet to research stocks and make timely, more informed trading decisions. The Internet placed a plethora of rich research information into the hands of investors, who became more empowered than ever to make their own informed investing decisions. As these investors learned the joys of real-time stock quotes and near-real-time access to press releases, they began to demand even more access.\n\nBy 1999, individual investors became more aware of quarterly analyst conference calls, where a company's management would disclose the results of the quarter and answer analyst questions about the company's past performance and future prospects. At the time, most companies did not allow small investors to attend their calls. \n\nOne small investor, Mark Coker, founded a company called Bestcalls.com, a directory of conference calls open to all investors, to help persuade public companies to open up all their calls ( and ). Coker campaigned in the press to educate individual investors about the benefits of conference call attendance as a fundamental research tool, and worked constructively with the SEC to educate them about the pervasiveness of selective disclosure on earnings conference calls. At the same time, companies such as Onstream Media, Broadcast.com, Vcall.com, Shareholder.com and Thomson Financial (now Thomson Reuters) offered webcasting technology and services that made it more practical, and more affordable, for companies to allow all investors to listen in. \n\nIn December 1999, the SEC proposed Regulation FD. Thousands of individual investors wrote the SEC and voiced their support for the regulation. But support was not unanimous. Large institutional investors, accustomed to benefiting from selectively disclosed material information, fought vigorously against the proposed regulation. They argued that fair disclosure would lead to less disclosure. In October 2000, the SEC promulgated Regulation FD.\n"}
{"id": "25717545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25717545", "title": "Report of the International Commission on the Balkan Wars", "text": "Report of the International Commission on the Balkan Wars\n\nReport of the International Commission to Inquire into the Causes and Conduct of the Balkan Wars is a document published in the Washington D.C. in 1914 by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.\n\nThe International Commission to Inquire into the Causes and Conduct of the Balkan Wars consisted of university professors and other prominent individuals from France, Great Britain, United States, Germany, Austria and Russia. Among the members of the Commission there were three Nobel Prize winners.\n\nThe Commission went to the Balkans at the beginning of August and remained until the end of September 1913. After returning to Paris all the material was processed and released in the form of detailed report. The report speaks of the numerous violations of international conventions and war crimes committed during the Balkan Wars. The information collected were published by the Endowment in the early summer of 1914, but were soon overshadowed by the beginning of the First World War.\n\n"}
{"id": "18572107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18572107", "title": "Safety management systems", "text": "Safety management systems\n\nSafety management system (SMS) is a comprehensive management system designed to manage safety elements in the workplace. It includes policy, objectives, plans, procedures, organisation, responsibilities and other measures. The SMS is used in industries that manage significant safety risks, including aviation, petroleum, chemical, electricity generation and others.\n\nAn SMS provides a systematic way to identify hazards and control risks while maintaining assurance that these risk controls are effective. SMS can be defined as:\n\n...a businesslike approach to safety. It is a systematic, explicit and comprehensive process for managing safety risks. As with all management systems, a safety management system provides for goal setting, planning, and measuring performance. A safety management system is woven into the fabric of an organization. It becomes part of the culture, the way people do their jobs.\n\nFor the purposes of defining safety management, safety can be defined as: ... the reduction of risk to a level that is as low as is reasonably practicable.\n\nThere are three imperatives for adopting a safety management system for a business – these are ethical, legal and financial.\n\nThere is an implied moral obligation placed on an employer to ensure that work activities and the place of work to be safe, there are legislative requirements defined in just about every jurisdiction on how this is to be achieved and there is a substantial body of research which shows that effective safety management (which is the reduction of risk in the workplace) can reduce the financial exposure of an organisation by reducing direct and indirect costs associated with accident and incidents.\n\nTo address these three important elements, an effective SMS should:\n\nA safety management system can be created to fit any business type and/or industry sector.\n\nSince there are many models to choose from to outline the basic components of a safety management system, the one chosen here is the international standard promoted by the International Labour Organization (ILO). In the ILO document, the safety management basic components are:\n\nAlthough other SMS models use different terminology, the process and workflow for safety management systems are usually similar;\n\nA SMS is intended to act as a framework to allow an organisation, as a minimum, to meet its legal obligations under occupational safety and health law. The structure of a SMS is generally speaking, not of itself a legal requirement but it is an extremely effective tool to organise the myriad aspects of occupational safety and health (OSH) that can exist within an organisation, often to meet standards which exceed the minimum legal requirement.\n\nAn SMS is only as good as its implementation – effective safety management means that organisations need to ensure they are looking at all the risks within the organization as a single system, rather than having multiple, competing, ‘Safety Management Silos.’ If safety is not seen holistically, it can interfere with the prioritization of improvements or even result in safety issues being missed. For example, after an explosion in March 2005 at BP's Texas City Refinery (BP) the investigation concluded that the company had put too much emphasis on personal safety thus ignoring the safety of their processes. The antidote to such silo thinking is the proper evaluation of all risks, a key aspect of an effective SMS.\n\nThere are a number of industry sectors worldwide which have recognised the benefits of effective safety management. The regulatory authorities for these industries have developed safety management systems specific to their own industries and requirements, often backed up by regulation. Below are examples from different industry sectors from a number of varied worldwide locations.\n\nThe International Civil Aviation Organization has recommended that all aviation authorities implement SMS regulatory structures. ICAO has provided resources to assist with implementation, including the ICAO Safety Management Manual. Unlike the traditional occupational safety focus of SMS, the ICAO focus is to use SMS for managing aviation safety. \"Id\".\n\nThe ICAO High-level Safety Conference 2010 recommendation 2/5 proposed the development of a new Annex (19) dedicated to Safety Management. \nThe Annex was published in February 2013 and entered into force on November 14, 2013.\nThe benefits identified of this approach included: \n\nThe United States has introduced SMS for airports through an advisory circular and other guidance.\n\nThe United States announced at the 2008 EASA/FAA/TC International Safety Conference that they would be developing regulations to implement SMS for repair stations, air carriers, and manufacturers. The FAA formed a rulemaking committee to address the implementation (known as the SMS ARC). The SMS ARC reported its findings to the FAA on March 31, 2010. The Report recognizes that many of the elements of SMS already exist in the U.S. regulations, but that some elements do not yet exist. A draft of what the US SMS rule might look like was proposed by one trade association that participated in the ARC. Currently, the FAA is supporting voluntary pilot projects for SMS.\n\nThe Federal Aviation Administration has also required that all FAA services and offices adopt a common Aviation Safety (AVS) Safety Management System (AVSSMS). This is what ICAO calls a State Safety Program (SSP).\n\nThe Federal Aviation Administration published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) for the establishment of SMS for air carriers. That NPRM explains that it is intended to serve as the foundation for rules that would later be applied to Part 135 operators, Part 145 repair stations and Part 21 manufacturers. \"Id\". Several U.S. trade associations filed comments in response to the air carrier NPRM, including the Aviation Suppliers Association (ASA) comments in response to the SMS NPRM. and the Modification and Replacement Parts Association (MARPA) Among these comments were arguments for developing separate SMS regulations for other certificate holders, in order to make sure that SM remains a usable tool for advancing safety (rather than a uniform but useless paperwork exercise). In addition, the Federal Aviation Administration has also filed a NPRM for SMS for airports, which would be separate from the rules for SMS for air carriers (consistent with the arguments of the trade associations).\n\nThe European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) began the process of implementing Safety Management System (SMS) regulations by issuing Terms of Reference (TOR) on July 18, 2011. That was followed by a Notice of Proposed Amendment (NPA) issued on January 21, 2013. The proposed EASA regulation would apply to repair stations, but would have significant ancillary effects on other aviation industry sub-sectors.\n\nThe International Maritime Organization (IMO) is another organization that has adopted SMS. All international passenger ships and oil tankers, chemical tankers, gas carriers, bulk carriers and cargo ships of 500 gross tons or more are required to have a Safety Management System. In the preamble to the International Safety Management (ISM) Code, the IMO states, “The cornerstone of good safety management is commitment from the top. In matters of safety and pollution prevention it is the commitment, competence, attitudes and motivation of individuals at all levels that determines the end result.”\n\nTransport Canada’s Rail Safety Directorate incorporated SMS into the rail industry in 2001. The Rail Safety Management System requirements are set out in the \"Railway Safety Management System Regulations\". The objectives of the Rail Safety Management System Regulations are to ensure that safety is given management time and corporate resources and that it is subject to performance measurement and monitoring on par with corporate financial and production goals.\n\nThe effect of SMS in the rail industry has not been positive, as a 2006 Toronto Star review of Transportation Safety Board data indicated that rail accidents were soaring. Critics have argued that this evidence should preclude the adoption of SMS in the aviation sector. However, Transportation Safety Board data show that the accident rate in the rail industry has actually varied around the average over that 10-year period. Since the Toronto Star article was published, the accident rate has decreased. The Transportation Safety Board reported that “a total of 1,143 rail accidents were reported to the TSB in 2008, a 14% decrease from the 2007 total of 1,323 and an 18% decrease from the 2003–2007 average of 1,387” and also noted that, in 2008, rail incidents reported under the TSB mandatory reporting requirements reached a 26-year low of 215.\n\nThe RSMSR has in 2015 been updated.\n\n"}
{"id": "30844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30844867", "title": "Seattle process", "text": "Seattle process\n\nThe Seattle process or Seattle way is a term stemming from the political procedure in Seattle and King County, and to a lesser extent other cities and the Washington state government. The term has no strict definition but refers to the pervasively slow process of dialogue, deliberation, participation, and municipal introspection before making any decision and the time it takes to enact any policy. An early definition came from a 1983 editorial in the \"Seattle Weekly\", \"the usual Seattle process of seeking consensus through exhaustion.\"\n\n\"In its positive connotation the Seattle Way values popular participation, transparent process and meaningful debate. More negatively, it has been decried as a culture that values process and debate over results, that bogs down and can't get important things done.\"—Mark Purcell, Recapturing Democracy.\n\n\"The Seattle Way usually is defined as circular consultation reaching indecision. But it also consists of an uninvolved electorate and public decisions taken carelessly, without regard for experience elsewhere and unmindful of consequence.\"—Ted Van Dyk, contributing columnist to the Seattle Post-Intelligencer\n\nPrior to the election of Wes Uhlman as mayor in 1969, civic decision making was relatively quick and powerful groups could influence civic leaders without seeking wide consensus. \n\nProponents of the Seattle process, such as former city councilman Richard Conlin, praised it as a thoughtful method of generating the best results at the expense of time. In return, opponents referred to Conlin in 2005 as the \"Duke of Dither\" for his devotion to process.\n\nAs the Seattle process became more drawn out, it has been criticized, usually by business interests as too slow and dithering. As an example, during the massive redevelopment of the Cascade and South Lake Union neighborhoods in the early 21st century it was criticized by Vulcan Inc. and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center that an in-depth discussion of all of the ideas would wear out the patience of other groups providing financial capital. Meanwhile, neighborhood activists complained that the proposed development ignored the neighborhood plans that were previously, and laboriously, developed in a consensual process. City neighborhood activists generally like the deliberative process.\n\nThe process has also been criticized for bland results.\n\nThe Seattle process as an informal method values study, discussion and civic engagement. It will involve numerous stakeholder groups. It requires the community to present effective data, and for organizers to translate data from different constituencies into useful reports for decision makers. Using process to seek out consensus and hearing all opinions even extends to the corporate boardroom, not just government.\n\nMethods of participation typically include council meetings, neighborhood forums, ballot measures, and marches. Stakeholder groups are all-inclusive and usually include citizens, corporations, non-profits, neighborhood representatives, and identity or issue specific groups.\n\nDespite being called a \"process\" there is no definitive methodology to the Seattle process; in fact, while writing about Seattle taking four decades to build a light-rail line, \"The New York Times\" called it a \"mysterious and maddening phenomenon\".\n\nOutside of the public meetings and methods open to the public, the Seattle process also causes delay while politicians either tinker with, or obstruct, proposals. Other cities in the area declare their ability to get projects because of the lack of Seattle process.\n\nThe Seattle process, and claimed devotion to it, has been an issue in political races. In the 2001 Mayoral Election candidate Greg Nickels used devotion to Seattle process as an issue against his opponent, city attorney Mark Sidran, who promised a more decisive style. However, eight years later Nickel's style as Mayor would be criticized in a re-election race as top-down, autocratic, and antithetical to the Seattle process.\n\n"}
{"id": "871822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871822", "title": "Shibu Soren", "text": "Shibu Soren\n\nShibu Soren (born 11 January 1944) is an Indian politician who thrice served as Chief Minister of Jharkhand, first in 2005 for 10 day (2nd March to 12th March), then from 2008 to 2009 and again from 2009 to 2010. He was sworn in as the third Chief Minister of Jharkhand on 30 December 2009 after winning the Jharkhand Assembly elections. He resigned on 30 May 2010 after failing to obtain coalition support from the Bharatiya Janata Party, his national party partner. He previously represented the Dumka constituency of Jharkhand in the 14th Lok Sabha, and is the President of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) political party, a constituent of the UPA.\n\nOn 9 January 2009, Soren was defeated in the by-election for the Tamar assembly constituency by political novice Gopal Krishan Patar, alias Raja Peter, of the Jharkhand Party by a margin of over 9,000 votes. After the Assembly elections Soren once again formed the Government along with the BJP, and was sworn in as Chief Minister of Jharkhand on 30 December 2009.\n\nHe was the Minister for Coal in the Union Cabinet in November 2006, when a Delhi district court found him guilty in the murder of his private secretary Shashi Nath Jha in 1994. He has also been indicted in the past on other criminal charges.\n\nSoren was born in Nemra village of Ramgarh district, in what was, at the time, Bihar state, India. He completed his schooling in the same district. During his schooling his father was murdered by \"mahajans\" (money lenders). He started selling wood as a small business. He got married to Roopi Kisku. He has three sons Durga, Hemant, and Basant and a daughter, Anjali.\n\nSoren began his political career in the early 1970s and quickly became known as a tribal leader. On 23 January 1975, he allegedly incited a campaign to drive away \"outsiders\", or the 'non-tribal' people. At least eleven people were killed. Soren and numerous others were charged with various crimes related to this incident. After extended legal proceedings, Soren was acquitted on 6 March 2008. However, possibly related incitement charges—dating from two earlier deaths in 1974—remain pending.\n\nHe lost his first Lok Sabha election in 1977. He was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1980. An arrest warrant was issued against him. He was subsequently elected to the Lok Sabha in 1989, 1991 and 1996 as well. In 2002, he was elected to the Rajya Sabha. He won the Dumka Lok Sabha seat in a by-election the same year and resigned his Rajya Sabha seat. He was re-elected in 2004.\n\nHe became the Union Coal Minister in the Manmohan Singh government, but was asked to resign following an arrest warrant in his name in the thirty-year-old Chirudih case. He was one of the main accused amongst 69, with allegations to kill 10 people (including 9 Muslims) on 23 January 1975, in a clash between tribals and Muslims. After the warrant was issued, he initially went underground. He resigned on 24 July 2004. He was able to secure bail after spending over a month in judicial custody; released on bail on 8 September, he was re-inducted into the Union Cabinet and given back the coal ministry on 27 November 2004, as part of a deal for a Congress-JMM alliance before assembly elections in Jharkhand in February/March 2005.\n\nOn 2 March 2005, after much political bargaining and quid pro quo he was invited to form the government in Jharkhand by the Governor of Jharkhand. He resigned as Chief Minister nine days later, on 11 March, following his failure to obtain a vote of confidence in the assembly.\n\nOn 28 November 2006, Soren was found guilty in a twelve-year-old case involving the kidnapping and murder of his former personal secretary Shashinath Jha. It was claimed that Jha was abducted from the Dhaula Kuan area in Delhi on 22 May 1994 and taken to Piska Nagari village near Ranchi where he was killed. The CBI chargesheet stated that Jha's knowledge of the reported deal between the Congress and the JMM to save the Narasimha Rao government during the July 1993 no-confidence motion and an act of sodomy was the motive behind the murder. The charge-sheet asserted that: \"Jha was aware of the illegal transactions and also expected and demanded a substantial share out of this amount from Soren.\" . Indian Public at large considers him as a true example of crime organizer under the umbrella of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha.\n\nSoren resigned from his post of Union Minister for Coal after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh demanded that he do so in the wake of the verdict. This is the first case of a Union Minister of the Government of India being found guilty of involvement in a murder. On 5 December 2006, Shibu Soren was sentenced to life imprisonment. A Delhi court rejected his bail plea, stating: 'We cannot overlook the fact that the appellant (Soren) has been convicted after a detailed and elaborate trial only in November 2006 and sentenced in December 2006.\n\nThe bench also noted that he was also being tried in a number of other cases, including the case of mass murder in Jharkhand.\n\nOn 25 June 2007, Shibu Soren was being escorted to his jail in Dumka, Jharkhand when his convoy was attacked by bombs, but no one was hurt.\n\nThe Delhi High Court on 23 August 2007 overruled the District Court and acquitted Soren, stating that \"The trial court's analysis is far from convincing and not sustainable.\"\n\nThe five men convicted by the Tis Hazari court were held guilty of criminal conspiracy, abduction and murder primarily on the basis of forensic evidence provided by a post-mortem report of a body discovered in Jharkhand, namely a skull superimposition test and skull injury report. This was in addition to eyewitness accounts and some circumstantial evidence.\n\nHe is married to Roopi Kisku. He has three sons Durga Soren, Hemant Soren, and Basant Soren and a daughter, Anjali Soren. Hemant Soren was Chief Minister of Jharkhand from July 2013 to December 2014. His elder son Durga Soren was MLA from Jama from 1995 to 2005. Durga's wife Sita Soren is current MLA from Jama. Basant Soren is president of the Jharkhand Yuva Morcha a youth wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha.\n\n"}
{"id": "11274915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11274915", "title": "Shorenstein Prize", "text": "Shorenstein Prize\n\nThe Shorenstein Journalism Award is awarded annually by the Walter H. Shorenstein Asia Pacific Research Center at Stanford University. The Prize honour a journalist for distinguished writing and reporting that helps Americans to better understand the complexities of Asia. In 2018 this award was given to Indian citizen Siddharth Vardarajan for courageous accounts of India's domestic and foreign policies. He is the founder of online news website The Wire. It is well known for excellence and innovation in journalism.\nPrevious recipients of the Shorenstein Prize include Stanley Karnow, Orville Schell, Don Oberdorfer, John Pomfret and Nayan Chanda.\nhttp://www.thehindu.com/news/national/award-for-siddharth-varadarajan/article23516547.ece\n"}
{"id": "5604205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5604205", "title": "Smart contract", "text": "Smart contract\n\nA smart contract is a computer protocol intended to digitally facilitate, verify, or enforce the negotiation or performance of a contract. Smart contracts allow the performance of credible transactions without third parties. These transactions are trackable and irreversible.\n\nProponents of smart contracts claim that many kinds of contractual clauses may be made partially or fully self-executing, self-enforcing, or both. The aim of smart contracts is to provide security that is superior to traditional contract law and to reduce other transaction costs associated with contracting. Various cryptocurrencies have implemented types of smart contracts.\n\nSmart contracts were first proposed by Nick Szabo, who coined the term.\nWith the present implementations, based on blockchains, \"smart contract\" is mostly used more specifically in the sense of general purpose computation that takes place on a blockchain or distributed ledger. In this interpretation, used for example by the Ethereum Foundation or IBM, a smart contract is not necessarily related to the classical concept of a contract, but can be any kind of computer program.\n\nIn 2018, a US Senate report said: \"While smart contracts might sound new, the concept is rooted in basic contract law. Usually, the judicial system adjudicates contractual disputes and enforces terms, but it is also common to have another arbitration method, especially for international transactions. With smart contracts, a program enforces the contract built into the code.\"\n\nByzantine fault tolerant algorithms allowed digital security through decentralization to form smart contracts. Additionally, the programming languages with various degrees of Turing-completeness as a built-in feature of some blockchains make the creation of custom sophisticated logic possible.\n\nNotable examples of implementation of smart contracts are:\n\n\nSzabo proposes that smart contract infrastructure can be implemented by replicated asset registries and contract execution using cryptographic hash chains and Byzantine fault tolerant replication. Askemos implemented this approach\nin 2002 using Scheme\n(later adding SQLite) as contract script language.\n\nOne proposal for using bitcoin for replicated asset registration and contract execution is called \"colored coins\". Replicated titles for potentially arbitrary forms of property, along with replicated contract execution, are implemented in different projects.\n\n, UBS was experimenting with \"smart bonds\" that use the bitcoin blockchain\nin which payment streams could hypothetically be fully automated, creating a self-paying instrument.\n\nA smart contract is \"a computerized transaction protocol that executes the terms of a contract\". A blockchain-based smart contract is visible to all users of said blockchain. However, this leads to a situation where bugs, including security holes, are visible to all yet may not be quickly fixed.\n\nSuch an attack, difficult to fix quickly, was successfully executed on The DAO in June 2016, draining in Ether while developers attempted to come to a solution that would gain consensus. The DAO program had a time delay in place before the hacker could remove the funds; a hard fork of the Ethereum software was done to claw back the funds from the attacker before the time limit expired.\n\nIssues in Ethereum smart contracts, in particular, include ambiguities and easy-but-insecure constructs in its contract language Solidity, compiler bugs, Ethereum Virtual Machine bugs, attacks on the blockchain network, the immutability of bugs and that there is no central source documenting known vulnerabilities, attacks and problematic constructs.\n\n"}
{"id": "14218810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14218810", "title": "TorrentFreak", "text": "TorrentFreak\n\nTorrentFreak (abbreviated TF) is a blog dedicated to reporting the latest news and trends on the BitTorrent protocol and file sharing, as well as on copyright infringement and digital rights.\n\nThe website was started in November 2005 by a Dutchman using the pseudonym \"Ernesto Van Der Sar\". He was joined by Andy \"Enigmax\" Maxwell and Ben Jones in 2007. Regular contributors include Rickard Falkvinge, founder of the Pirate Party. The online publication eCommerceTimes, in 2009, described \"Ernesto\" as the pseudonym of Lennart Renkema, owner of TorrentFreak. TorrentFreak's text is free content under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial version 3.0 license.\n\nTheir lead researcher and community manager is the Pirate Party activist Andrew Norton.\n\nAccording to Canadian law scholar Michael Geist, TorrentFreak \"is widely used as a source of original reporting on digital issues\". Examples are \"The New York Times\", \"The Guardian\", \"CNN\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and the Flemish newspaper \"De Standaard\".\n\nFrequent areas of reporting include:\n\nAnd other news affecting 'copyright, privacy and everything related to file sharing'\n\nOn August 17, 2007, TorrentFreak reported that Comcast had begun throttling its upload bandwidth, specifically against BitTorrent users. This made seeding, which is an essential part of the BitTorrent protocol, effectively impossible. It was later determined that Comcast was using Sandvine products, which implement network traffic shaping and policing, and include support for both blocking new and forcefully terminating established network connections. Comcast has denied these claims whenever they have been asked to comment. A guide, for customer service representatives when asked about Comcast's BitTorrent throttling, was leaked to The Consumerist on October 26, 2007.\n\nIn October 2008 through to March 2011 TorrentFreak ran short lived video news service titled 'torrentfreak.tv directed by Andrej Preston, founder of torrent site Suprnova made available for streaming and download on Mininova.\n\nOn August 21, 2013, Comcast threatened TorrentFreak for writing about publicly available court documents. The underlying document links a Comcast subscriber with the Prenda Law firm. The court case where the document was filed was a copyright infringement lawsuit brought by AF Holdings for alleged infringement of an adult movie.\n\nIn August 2013 web blocking technology implementation by Sky Broadband blocked the site for UK customers after EZTV manipulated its DNS servers and was blocked once again by the controversial Sky Broadband Shield parental filter system in January 2014.\n"}
{"id": "39445442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39445442", "title": "Weiquan lawyers", "text": "Weiquan lawyers\n\nWeiquan lawyers (), or “rights protection” lawyers, refer to a small but influential movement of lawyers, legal practitioners, scholars and activists who help Chinese citizens to assert their constitutional, civil rights and/or public interest through litigation and legal activism. Weiquan lawyers represents many cases regarding labour rights, land rights, official corruption, victims of torture, migrants' rights.\n\nSince the 1980s, as China’s leadership became cognizant of the importance of the legal system and legal profession to advance economic development, training for lawyers dramatically increased. From 1986 to 1992, the number of lawyers in the country more than doubled from 21,500 to 45,000, and by 2008 had reached 143,000.\n\nThe proportion of Weiquan lawyers is very small, relative the number of legal professionals in China. The number of lawyers actively focusing on civil rights issues has been estimated by legal scholar Teng Biao to number \"only a few dozen.\" The lawyers face considerable personal and professional obstacles, and Weiquan lawyering demands substantial commitment to their cause. According to Fu Hualing and Richard Cullen, “Weiquan lawyers act principally out of commitment, not because of any financial concerns. They accept weiquan cases to pursue their cause, and typically charge no legal fees.” The lawyers often face threats, harassment, and even detention when taking on cases, and they find themselves targets of repression ahead of sensitive events.\n\nWeiquan activists include law professors with university teaching positions—including He Weifang, Xu Zhiyong, and Teng Biao—professional lawyers, and “barefoot lawyers,” who are self-taught and often lack any formal legal education. Several of China’s more high-profile Weiquan lawyers fall into the latter category, including Guo Feixiong and Chen Guangcheng. Many barefoot lawyers are peasants who teach themselves enough law to file civil complaints, engage in litigation, and educate fellow citizens about their rights.\n\nBecause corporate law firms are generally not hospitable to Weiquan lawyers and legal aid workers operate within the government system, Weiquan lawyers in large cities tend to work as solo practitioners in partnership firms with other like-minded lawyers. The Beijing Global Law Firm and Yitong Law Firm are examples of such organizations.\n\nRana Siu Inboden and William Inboden note that a disproportionate number of influential Weiquan lawyers identify with the Christian faith, including Gao Zhisheng, Chen Guangcheng, Zheng Enchong, and Li Heping, among others.\n\nThere are at least two distinctive (and sometimes competing) approaches to Weiquan activism. Among Weiquan lawyers, the pragmatists (or consequentialists) are more deferential to the existing legal systems and institutions, and only pursue courses of actions that are likely to produce incremental improvements and reforms. These activists may reject approaches that are liable to be met with official reprisals. By contrast, the \"radical\" Weiquan activists (those adopting a deontological approach) view rights defending as a moral obligation that is to be pursued regardless of potential consequences. Radical lawyers such as Gao Zhisheng are more inclined to take on the most \"sensitive\" cases—such as those of Falun Gong adherents—simply because it is the \"right thing to do,\" even though the prospects of success are minimal. A pragmatist may become radicalized once they encounter the limits of possible reform.\n\n\n"}
