{"id": "47506857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47506857", "title": "1996 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1996 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1996 in Sri Lanka.\n\n"}
{"id": "13556700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13556700", "title": "A Bronx Tale (play)", "text": "A Bronx Tale (play)\n\nA Bronx Tale is an autobiographical one-man show written and performed by Chazz Palminteri. It tells the coming-of-age story of Calogero Anello, a young New Yorker torn between the temptations of organised crime and the values of his hardworking father. It originally premiered in Los Angeles in the 1980s, before moving Off-Broadway. After a film version involving Palminteri and Robert DeNiro was released in 1993, in 2007 Palminteri performed his one-man show on Broadway and on tour.\n\nA musical version, \"A Bronx Tale\" directed by Robert DeNiro remained onstage into 2018, at the Longacre Theatre on Broadway.\n\n\"A Bronx Tale\" tells the story of Calogero Anello, a young boy from a working class family who gets involved in the world of organized crime. Calogero's father is a bus driver who tries to instill working-class family values in his son. As Calogero gets older, the aura and mystique of the Mafia, and the charms of Sonny, the local mob boss who befriends Calogero (and ends up becoming a father figure to him), become difficult to resist. As Calogero comes of age, he must struggle with the choice of following his beloved father's values or submitting to the temptations of the life of organized crime.\n\nPalminteri states that he began writing the play after being fired from a club when, as a doorman, he refused entry to super agent Swifty Lazar.\n\"A Bronx Tale\" premiered in Los Angeles, achieving great critical success. Palminteri relates that \"After some polishing, the show opened to positive reviews and soon attracted Hollywood interest. 'Every director, every studio head wanted to make the movie,' Palminteri said. 'They offered, $250,000, $500,000.'\" Palminteri then appeared in the play Off-Broadway at Playhouse 91, from October 10, 1989, to December 24, 1989, directed by Mark X. Travis. The play had a sold-out run and Palminteri received a 1989–1990 Special Award from the Outer Critics Circle.\n\nAcademy Award winning actor Robert De Niro attended a performance of \"A Bronx Tale\" and offered to buy the film rights to the show. Palminteri agreed to sell the film rights on the conditions that he would be able to write the screenplay and that he be cast as the role of Sonny. The film version of \"A Bronx Tale\" premiered in 1993. The film version marked the directorial debut of De Niro and helped catapult Palminteri's film acting career.\n\nIn 2007, Palminteri performed his one-man show on Broadway. The Broadway production began previews on October 4, 2007, and premiered on October 25, 2007, at the Walter Kerr Theatre. The show closed on February 24, 2008, after 108 performances and nineteen previews. It was directed by Jerry Zaks and Produced by Go Productions with Trent Othick being the lead producer, with the set designed by Jim Noone, and the lighting designed by Paul Gallo. It recouped its capitalization and was followed by a national tour. The play was nominated for the 2007–2008 Outer Critics Circle Award for Outstanding Solo Performance.\n\nAfter a ten-year development process, the original one man show was adapted into a new musical with a book by Chazz Palminteri, music by Alan Menken, and lyrics by Glenn Slater, and premiered at the Paper Mill Playhouse (Milburn, New Jersey) on February 4, 2016, before opening on Broadway December 1 later that year.\n\nThe musical is co-directed by Robert De Niro, who directed the original film, and Jerry Zaks, who directed the one man show on Broadway in 2007. The show also features choreography by Sergio Trujillo. Tommy Mottola serves as the production's leading producer.\n\nThe production includes sets by Beowulf Boritt, costumes by William Ivey Long, lighting by Howell Binkley, and sound by Gareth Owen. The cast features Bobby Conte Thornton as Calogero, Nick Cordero as Sonny, Hudson Loverro as Young Calogero with Athan Sporek as his alternate, Richard H. Blake as Lorenzo, Ariana DeBose as Jane, and Lucia Giannetta as Rosina.\n\nThe musical began previews on Broadway on November 3, 2016, VM before officially opening on December 1, 2016, at the Longacre Theatre where it continues to run today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28107878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28107878", "title": "Ali Kosh", "text": "Ali Kosh\n\nAli Kosh is a small Tell of the Early Neolithic period located in Ilam Province in west Iran, in the Zagros Mountains. It was excavated by Frank Hole and Kent Flannery in the 1960s.\n\nThe site is about 135 m in diameter.\n\nResearch has found three phases of occupation of the site over an almost 2,000 period, starting from about 9,500 years ago (7500 BCE). It was occupied by pre-pottery peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "907227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907227", "title": "Blurb", "text": "Blurb\n\nA blurb is a short promotional piece accompanying a creative work. It may be written by the author or publisher or quote praise from others. Blurbs were originally printed on the back or rear dust-jacket of a book, and are now found on home video cases, web portals, and news websites. A blurb may introduce a newspaper or magazine feature story.\n\nIn the US, the history of the blurb is said to begin with Walt Whitman's collection, \"Leaves of Grass\". In response to the publication of the first edition in 1855, Ralph Waldo Emerson had sent Whitman a congratulatory letter, including the phrase \"I greet you at the beginning of a great career\": the following year, Whitman had these words stamped in gold leaf on the spine of the second edition.\n\nThe word \"blurb\" was coined in 1907 by American humorist Gelett Burgess (1866–1951). His short 1906 book \"Are You a Bromide?\" was presented in a limited edition to an annual trade association dinner. The custom at such events was to have a dust jacket promoting the work and with, as Burgess' publisher B. W. Huebsch described it, \"the picture of a damsel—languishing, heroic, or coquettish—anyhow, a damsel on the jacket of every novel\".\n\nIn this case, the jacket proclaimed \"YES, this is a 'BLURB'!\" and the picture was of a (fictitious) young woman \"Miss Belinda Blurb\" shown calling out, described as \"in the act of blurbing.\" The name and term stuck for any publisher's contents on a book's back cover, even after the picture was dropped and only the text remained.\n\nIn Germany, the blurb is regarded to have been invented by Karl Robert Langewiesche around 1902. In German bibliographic usage, it is usually located on the second page of the book underneath the half title, or on the dust cover.\n\nA blurb on a book can be any combination of quotes from the work, the author, the publisher, reviewers or fans, a summary of the plot, a biography of the author or simply claims about the importance of the work.\n\nIn the 1980s, \"Spy\" ran a regular feature called \"Logrolling in Our Time\" which exposed writers who wrote blurbs for one another's books.\n\nProminent writers can receive large volumes of blurb requests from aspiring authors. This has led some writers to turn down such requests as a matter of policy. For example, Gary Shteyngart announced in \"The New Yorker\" that he would no longer write blurbs, except for certain writers with whom he had a professional or personal connection. Neil Gaiman reports that \"Every now and again, I stop doing blurbs... The hiatus lasts for a year or two, and then I feel guilty or someone asks me at the right time, and I relent.\" Jacob M. Appel reports that he received fifteen to twenty blurb requests per week and tackles \"as many as I can.\"\n\nMany humorous books and films parody blurbs that deliver exaggerated praise by unlikely people and insults disguised as praise.\n\nThe \"Harvard Lampoon\" satire of \"The Lord of the Rings\", entitled \"Bored of the Rings\", deliberately used phony blurbs by deceased authors on the inside cover. One of the blurbs stated \"One of the two or three books ...\", and nothing else.\n\nMovie blurbs are part of the promotional campaign for films, and usually consist of positive, colorful extracts from published reviews.\n\nMovie blurbs have often been faulted for taking words out of context. \"The New York Times\" reported that \"the blurbing game is also evolving as newspaper film critics disappear and studios become more comfortable quoting Internet bloggers and movie Web sites in their ads, a practice that still leaves plenty of potential for filmgoers to be bamboozled. Luckily for consumers, there is a cavalry: blurb watchdog sites have sprung up and the number of Web sites that aggregate reviews by established critics is steadily climbing. ... Helping to keep studios in line these days are watchdog sites like eFilmCritic.com and The Blurbs, a Web column for \"Gelf\" magazine written by Carl Bialik of \"The Wall Street Journal\".\"\n\n\"Slate\" wrote in an \"Explainer\" column: \"How much latitude do movie studios have in writing blurbs? A fair amount. There's no official check on running a misleading movie blurb, aside from the usual laws against false advertising. Studios do have to submit advertising materials like newspaper ads and trailers to the Motion Picture Association of America for approval. But the MPAA reviews the ads for their tone and content, not for the accuracy of their citations. ... As a courtesy, studios will often run the new, condensed quote by the critic before sending it to print.\"\n\nMany examples exist of blurb used in marketing a film being traceable directly back to the film's marketing team.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57575", "title": "Brno", "text": "Brno\n\nBrno ( ; ; ) is the second largest city in the Czech Republic by population and area, the largest Moravian city, and the historical capital city of the Margraviate of Moravia. Brno is the administrative center of the South Moravian Region in which it forms a separate district (Brno-City District). The city lies at the confluence of the Svitava and Svratka rivers and has about 400,000 inhabitants; its greater metropolitan area is home to more than 800,000 people while its larger urban zone had a population of about 730,000 in 2004.\n\nBrno is the seat of judicial authority of the Czech Republic – it is the seat of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. The city is also a significant administrative centre. It is the seat of a number of state authorities, including the Ombudsman, and the Office for the Protection of Competition. Brno is also an important centre of higher education, with 33 faculties belonging to 13 institutes of higher learning and about 89,000 students.\n\nBrno Exhibition Centre ranks among the largest exhibition centres in Europe (23rd in the world). The complex opened in 1928 and established the tradition of large exhibitions and trade fairs held in Brno. Brno hosts motorbike and other races on the Masaryk Circuit, a tradition established in 1930, in which the Road Racing World Championship Grand Prix is one of the most prestigious races. Another cultural tradition is an international fireworks competition, \"Ignis Brunensis\", that usually attracts tens of thousands of daily visitors.\n\nThe most visited sights of the city include the Špilberk castle and fortress and the Cathedral of Saints Peter and Paul on Petrov hill, two medieval buildings that dominate the cityscape and are often depicted as its traditional symbols. The other large preserved castle near the city is Veveří Castle by Brno Reservoir. This castle is the site of a number of legends, as are many other places in Brno. Another architectural monument of Brno is the functionalist Villa Tugendhat which has been included on the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites. One of the natural sights nearby is the Moravian Karst. The city is a member of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network and has been designated as a \"City of Music\" in 2017.\n\nThe etymology of the name \"Brno\" is disputed. It might be derived from the Old Czech \"brnie\" 'muddy, swampy.' Alternative derivations are from a Slavic verb \"brniti\" (to armour or to fortify) or a Celtic language spoken in the area before it was overrun by Germanic peoples and later Slavic peoples (this theory would make it cognate with other Celtic words for hill, such as the Welsh word \"bryn\").\n\nThroughout its history, Brno's locals also referred to the town in other languages, including \"Brünn\" in German, ברין (\"Brin\") in Yiddish and \"Bruna\" in Latin. The city was also referred to as Brunn () in English, but this usage is not common today.\n\nThe Asteroid 2889 Brno was named after the city, as well as the Bren light machine gun (Brno + Enfield), one of the most famous weapons of World War II.\n\nThe Brno basin has been inhabited since prehistoric times, but the town's direct predecessor was a fortified settlement of the Great Moravia Empire known as \"Staré Zámky\" which was inhabited from the Neolithic Age to the early 11th century.\n\nIn the early 11th century Brno was established as a castle of a non-ruling prince from the House of Přemyslid, and Brno became one of the centres of Moravia along with Olomouc and Znojmo. Brno was first mentioned in Cosmas' \"Chronica Boëmorum\" dated to year 1091, when Bohemian king Vratislav II besieged his brother Conrad at Brno castle.\nIn the mid 11th century, Moravia was divided into three separate territories; each one of them had its own ruler, coming from the Přemyslids dynasty, but independent of the other two, and subordinated only to the Bohemian ruler in Prague. Seats of these rulers and thus \"capitals\" of these territories were castles and towns of Brno, Olomouc, and Znojmo. In the late 12th century, Moravia began to reunify, forming the Margraviate of Moravia. Since then, until the mid of the 17th century, it was not clear which town should be the capital of Moravia. Political power was therefore \"evenly\" divided between Brno and Olomouc, but Znojmo also played an important role. The Moravian Diet (cz: \"Moravský Zemský sněm\"), the Moravian Land Tables (cz: \"Moravské Zemské desky\"), and the Moravian Land Court (cz: \"Moravský Zemský soud\") were all seated in both cities at once. However, Brno was the official seat of the Moravian Margraves (rulers of Moravia), and later its geographical position closer to Vienna also became important. Otherwise, until 1642 Olomouc was larger than Brno by population, and it was the seat of the only Roman Catholic diocese in Moravia.\n\nIn 1243 Brno was granted the large and small city privileges by the King, and thus it was recognized as a royal city. In 1324 Queen Elisabeth Richeza of Poland founded the current Basilica of the Assumption of Our Lady which is now her final resting place. In the 14th century, Brno became one of the centres for the Moravian regional assemblies, whose meetings alternated between Brno and Olomouc. These assemblies made political, legal, and financial decisions. Brno and Olomouc were also the seats of the Land Court and the Land Tables, thus they were the two most important cities in Moravia. From the mid 14th century to the early 15th century the Špilberk Castle had served as the permanent seat of the Margraves of Moravia (Moravian rulers); one of them was elected the King of the Romans. In the 15th century Brno was besieged in 1428 and again in 1430 by the Hussites during the Hussite Wars. Both attempts to conquer the city failed.\n\nIn 1641, in the midst of the Thirty Years' War, the Holy Roman Emperor and Margrave of Moravia Ferdinand III commanded permanent relocation of the diet, court, and the land tables from Olomouc to Brno, as Olomouc's Collegium Nordicum made it one of the primary targets of Swedish armies. In 1642 Olomouc surrendered to the Swedish army which then stayed there for 8 years. Meanwhile, Brno, as the only Moravian city which under the leadership of Jean-Louis Raduit de Souches managed to defend itself from the Swedes under General Lennart Torstenson, served as the sole capital of the state (Margraviate of Moravia). After the end of the Thirty Years' War (1648), Brno retained its status as the sole capital. This was later confirmed by the Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II in 1782, and again in 1849 by the Moravian constitution. Today, the Moravian Land Tables are stored in the Moravian Regional Archive, and they are included among the national cultural sights of the Czech Republic.\n\nDuring the 17th century Špilberk Castle was rebuilt as a huge baroque citadel. In the 18th century Brno was besieged by Prussians in 1742 under the leadership of Frederick the Great, the siege was ultimately unsuccessful. In 1777 the bishopric of Brno was established; Mathias Franz Graf von Chorinsky Freiherr von Ledske was the first Bishop.\n\nIn December 1805 the Battle of Austerlitz was fought near the city; the battle is also known as the \"Battle of the Three Emperors\". Brno itself was not involved with the battle, but the French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte spent several nights here at that time and again in 1809.\n\nIn 1839 the first train arrived in Brno from Vienna, this was the beginning of rail transport in what is now the Czech Republic. In the years 1859-1864 the city fortification was almost completely removed. In 1869 a horsecar service started to operate in Brno, it was the first tram service in what would later become the Czech republic.\n\nGregor Mendel conducted his groundbreaking experiments in genetics while he was a monk at St. Thomas's Abbey in Brno in the 1850s.\n\nAround 1900 Brno, which until 1918 consisted in administrative terms only of the central city area, had a predominantly German-speaking population (63%), as opposed to the suburbs, which were predominantly Czech-speaking. Life in Brünn/Brno was therefore bilingual, and what was called in German \"Brünnerisch\" was a mixed idiom containing elements from both languages.\n\nIn 1919, after World War I, two neighbouring towns, Královo Pole and Husovice, and 21 other municipalities were annexed to Brno, creating Greater Brno (). This was done to dilute the German-speaking majority of close to 55,000 by addition of the Slavic communities of the city's neighborhood. Included in the German-speaking group were almost all of the 12,000 Jewish inhabitants, including several of the city's better known personalities, who made a substantial contribution to the city's cultural life. Greater Brno was almost seven times larger, with a population of about 222,000 - before that Brno had about 130,000 inhabitants.\n\nIn 1921 Brno became the capital of the Land of Moravia (Czech: \"země Moravská\"); before that it was the capital of the Margraviate of Moravia. Seven years later, Brno became the capital of the Land of Moravia-Silesia (Czech: \"země Moravskoslezská\").\n\nIn 1930, 200,000 inhabitants declared themselves to be of Czech, and some 52,000 of German nationality, in both cases including the respective Jewish citizens.\n\nDuring the German occupation of the Czech lands between 1939 and 1945 all Czech universities including those of Brno were closed by the Nazis. The Faculty of Law became the headquarters of the Gestapo, and the university dormitory was used as a prison. About 35,000 Czechs and some American and British prisoners of war were imprisoned and tortured there; about 800 civilians were executed or died. Executions were public.\n\nBetween 1941 and 1942, transports from Brno deported 10,081 Jews to Theresienstadt (Terezín) concentration camp. At least another 960 people, mostly of mixed race, followed in 1943 and 1944. After Terezín, many of them were sent to Auschwitz concentration camp, Minsk Ghetto, Rejowiec and other ghettos and concentration camps. Although Terezín was not an extermination camp, 995 people transported from Brno died there. After the war only 1,033 people returned.\n\nIndustrial facilities such as arms factory Československá zbrojovka and aircraft engine factory Zweigwerk (after the war it became Zbrojovka's subsidiary Zetor) and the city centre were targeted by several Allied bombardment campaigns between 1944 and 1945. The air strikes and later artillery fire killed some 1,200 people and destroyed 1,278 buildings. After the city's occupation by the Red Army on 26 April 1945 and the end of the war, ethnic German residents were forcibly expelled. In the so-called Brno death march, beginning on 31 May 1945, about 27,000 German inhabitants of Brno were marched to the Austrian border. According to testimony collected by German sources, about 5,200 of them died during the march. Later estimates by Czech sources put the death toll at about 1,700, with most deaths due to an epidemic of shigellosis.\n\nAt the beginning of the Communist era in Czechoslovakia, in 1948, the government abolished Moravian autonomy and Brno hence ceased to be the capital of Moravia. Since then Moravia has been divided into administrative regions and Brno is administrative centre of the South Moravian Region.\n\nBrno is located in the southeastern part of the Czech Republic, at the confluence of the Svitava and Svratka rivers and there are also several brooks flowing through it, including the Veverka, Ponávka, and Říčka. The Svratka River flows through the city for about , the Svitava River cuts a path through the city. The width of Brno is measured from the east to the west and its overall area is . Within the city limits are the Brno Dam Lake, several ponds, and other standing bodies of water, for example reservoirs in the Marian Valley or the Žebětín Pond. Brno is surrounded by wooded hills on three sides; about of the area of the city is forest, i.e. 28%. Due to its location between the Bohemian-Moravian Highlands and the Southern Moravian lowlands (Dyje-Svratka Vale), Brno has a moderate climate. Compared to other cities in the country, Brno has a very high air quality, which is ensured by a good natural circulation of air; no severe storms or similar natural disasters have ever been recorded in the city.\n\nBrno is the former capital city of Moravia and the political and cultural hub of the South Moravian Region. The city has over 400,000 residents. Its urban agglomeration has about 450,000 residents. Its larger urban zone had a population of about 730,000 in 2004 while its greater metropolitan area is home to more than 800,000 people. The estimated population of the South Moravian Region is 1.2 million. According to the Eurostat population estimate Brno had 367,729 inhabitants, which ranks it among the 100 largest cities of the EU. Brno is situated at the crossroads of ancient trade routes which have joined northern and southern European civilizations for centuries, and is part of the Danube basin region. The city is historically connected with Vienna, which lies a mere to the south.\n\nUnder the Köppen climate classification, Brno has a oceanic climate (\"Cfb\") for -3 °C original isoterm, but near of the (-2,5 °C average temperature in January, month most cold) or include by updated classification in humid continental climate (\"Dfb\") with cold winters and hot to warm summers. However, in the last 20 years the temperature has increased, and summer days with temperature above are quite common. The average temperature is , the average annual precipitation is about , the average number of precipitation days is 150, the average annual sunshine is 1,771 hours, and the prevailing wind direction is northwest. The weather box below shows average data between years 1961 and 1990. \nIts height above sea level varies from to , and the highest point in the area is the Kopeček Hill.\n\nBy law Brno is a statutory city; it consists of 29 city districts (administrative divisions, cz: \"Městské části\") the highest body of its self-government is the Assembly of the City of Brno (cz: \"Zastupitelstvo města Brna\").\n\nThe city itself forms a separate district the Brno-City District (cz: \"Okres Brno-město\") surrounded by the Brno-Country District (cz: \"Okres Brno-venkov\"), Brno is divided into 29 administrative divisions (city districts) and consists of 48 cadastral areas. This might sound confusing but there is a big difference between \"a city district of Brno\", \"the Brno-City District\" and \"the Brno-Country District\".\n\nThe city districts of Brno significantly varies in their size by both population and area. The most populated city district of Brno is the Brno-Centre which has over 91 thousand of residents and the less populated are Brno-Ořešín and Brno-Útěchov with about 500 residents. By its area the largest one is Brno-Bystrc with and the smallest is Brno-Nový Lískovec with .\n\nBrno is the home to the highest courts in the Czech judiciary. The Supreme Court is on Burešova Street, the Supreme Administrative Court is on Moravské náměstí (), and the Constitutional Court is on Joštova Street, and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office of the Czech Republic is on Jezuitská street.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, Brno had 385,913 inhabitants. The largest ethnic groups were Czechs (51.6%), Moravians (18.7%), Slovaks (1.5%), Ukrainians (0.9%), Vietnamese (0.4%), and Poles (0.2%). Brno experienced the largest increase in population during the 19th century at the time of the industrial revolution. A slight decrease in population after 1989 was caused by suburbanisation.\n\nThe city spends about 30 million euro every year on culture. There are many museums, theatres and other cultural institutions. Brno is also a vibrant university city with about 90,000 students, and a number of festivals and other cultural events.\n\nSince the 1990s Brno has experienced a great cultural \"rebirth\": façades of historical monuments are being repaired and various exhibitions, shows, etc., are being established or extended. In 2007 a summit of 15 presidents of the EU Member States was held in Brno.\n\nDespite its urban character, some of the city districts still preserve traditional Moravian folklore, including folk festivals with traditional Moravian costumes (cz: \"kroje\"), Moravian wines, folk music and dances. Unlike smaller municipalities, in Brno the traditional folk festivals are held locally by city districts: among the city districts where annual traditional Moravian festivals takes place are Židenice, Líšeň, or Ivanovice.\n\nHantec is a unique dialect that originated in Brno.\n\nBrno has hundreds of historical sights, including one designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO, and eight monuments listed among the national cultural heritage of the Czech Republic. Majority of the main sights of Brno are situated in its historical centre. The city has the third largest historic preservation zone in the Czech Republic, the largest one being that of the Czech capital Prague. However, there is a considerable difference in the size of historical preservation zones of both cities. While Brno has 484 legally protected sites, Prague has as many as 1,330.\n\nŠpilberk Castle, originally a royal castle founded in the 13th century, was from the 17th century a fortress and feared prison (e.g. Carbonari). Today it is one of the city's principal monuments.\n\nSimilarly important is the Cathedral of St. Peter and Paul. The cathedral was built during the 14th and 15th centuries in place of an 11th-century chapel. In its present form with two neo-Gothic towers it was finished only in 1909. The other large castle near the city is Veveří Castle.\n\nAbbey of Saint Thomas is the place where Gregor Mendel established the new science of genetics. Church of Saint Tomas is the final resting place of its founder Margrave of Moravia John Henry of Luxembourg and his son King of the Romans and Margrave of Moravia Jobst of Moravia. Basilica of the assumption of our Lady the final resting place also of its founder Queen Elisabeth Richeza. Church of Saint James is one of the most preserved and most spectacular Gothic churches in Brno.\nBrno Ossuary which is the second largest ossuary in Europe, after the Catacombs of Paris. Another ossuary is Capuchin crypt with mummies of Capuchin monks and some of the notable people of their era, like architect Mořic Grimm or the famous mercenary leader Baron Trenk. The Labyrinth under Vegetable Market, a system of underground corridors and cellars dating back to Middle Ages, has been recently opened to the public.\n\nBrno is home to a functionalist Synagogue and the largest Jewish cemetery in Moravia. A Jewish population lived in Brno as early as the 13th century, and remnants of tombstones can be traced back to as early as 1349. The functionalist synagogue was built between 1934 and 1936. While there were 12,000 members of the Brno Jewish community in 1938, only 1,000 survived the Nazi persecution during Germany's occupation in World War II. Today, the cemetery and synagogue are maintained by a Brno Jewish community once again. The only Czech mosque, founded in 1998, is also located in Brno.\n\nThe era between the world wars brought a building boom to the city, leaving it with many modern and especially functionalist buildings, the most celebrated one being Villa Tugendhat, designed by architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe in the 1920s for the wealthy family of Fritz Tugendhat, and finished in 1930. It was designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2001. Another renowned architect who significantly shaped Brno was Arnošt Wiesner. Other functionalist buildings include Avion Hotel and Morava Palace. The Brno Exhibition Centre is the city's premier attraction for international business visitors. Annually, over one million visitors attend over 40 professional trade fairs and business conferences held here.\n\nLužánky is the oldest public park opened in the current Czech Republic, as a public park it was established in the late 18th century. Denis Gardens were founded in the early 19th century and are the first public park in the present-day Czech Republic founded by public administration authorities, while Lužánky Park was founded by the emperor of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Špilberk Park is classified as a national cultural sight of the Czech Republic as a unique piece of garden architecture.\n\nOne of Brno's more recent additions is the Brno astronomical clock, pictured in both the linked article and the gallery below.\n\nAZ Tower opened in 2013 is with its 111 m currently the tallest building in the Czech Republic.\n\nThe biggest festival held in Brno is the fireworks competition festival Ignis Brunensis (Latin for \"Flame of Brno\") held annually in June. It is part of a festival with a bold name \"Brno - City in the Centre of Europe\". Ignis Brunensis is the biggest show of its kind held in Central Europe. usually attracts one or two hundred thousand visitors every day.\n\nInternational film festival \"Cinema Mundi\" shows about 60 films competing for Oscar nomination in the category of Best Foreign Language Film.\n\nThe \"Theatre World Brno\" is another international festival annually held in the city where the Brno theatres and the city centre stages around one hundred performances by both national and foreign ensembles.\n\nThere are many other festivals regularly held in Brno, for instance the \"International Music Festival Brno\", the \"Spilberk International Music Festival\", the \"Summer Shakespeare Festival\", and many others...\n\nEvery September, Brno is home to a wine festival (\"Slavnosti vína\") to celebrate the harvest in the surrounding wine-producing region.\n\nBrno has the oldest theatre building in Central Europe, the Reduta Theatre at Zelný trh (en: \"the Vegetable Market\"). So the city has a long tradition in theatre productions, the first theatre plays in Brno took place probably in the 1660s in the \"City Tavern\", today's Reduta Theatre; however, the first \"real theatre\" with theatre boxes was built in 1733 in this complex. The first documented professional Czech performance took place in 1767 again in the Reduta Theatre, the play was called \"Zamilovaný ponocný\" (en: \"Watchman in Love\") and was performed by the Venice Theatre Company; the same year Mozart performed in the theatre with his elder sister Anna Maria (Nannerl). In that year the Mozart family spent Christmas in Brno, this rare visit is commemorated by a statue of Mozart as a child in front of the Reduta Theatre; also the Reduta's \"Mozart Hall\" (cz: \"Mozartův sál\") was named after him.\n\nThe National Theatre Brno is the leading scene of opera, drama and ballet in the city of Brno. The first permanent seat of the National Theatre Brno was established in 1884 and it was called \"Národní divadlo v Brně\" (en: \"the National Theatre in Brno\"), today this institution owns the Mahen Theatre, built in 1882, Janáček Theatre built in 1965, and the Reduta Theatre which is Central Europe's oldest theatre. The composer Leoš Janáček is also connected with the National Theatre Brno. Another interesting fact about the National Theatre Brno: the Mahen Theatre was the first theatre building in Europe to be illuminated by Thomas Edison's electric light bulbs; at that time it was a completely new invention and there were no power plants built in the city, so a small steam power plant was built nearby just to power the theatre, and Edison came to Brno in 1911 to see it.\n\nThe most commercially successful theatre in Brno is the Brno City Theatre, founded in 1945; its performances are usually sold out. They also stage about 150 performances abroad every year. Repertoire of this theatre consists primarily of musical and dramatical scene.\n\nThere is a variety of smaller theatres in Brno, such as \"Divadlo Bolka Polívky\", \"Divadlo Husa na provázku\", \"HaDivadlo\", \"loutkové divadlo Radost\", \"Divadlo Polárka\", \"G Studio\", \"Divadlo v 7 a půl – Kabinet múz\", \"Divadlo Vaňkovka\" for children, etc.\n\nTheatres in Brno experienced a long development and the current seats of the theatres and their artistic ensembles might be considerably different from the original ones, for example the Mahen Theatre was originally called the City Theatre and until 1918 it performed exclusively in German and also it was not part of the National Theatre in Brno, there was similar situation regarding the Reduta Theatre. Between 1971 and 1978 some plays were performed at the Brno Exhibition Centre due to reconstruction of the Mahen Theatre.\n\nThere are several legends connected with the City of Brno; one of the best known is the Legend of the Brno Dragon. It is said that there was a terrible creature terrorizing the citizens of Brno. The people had never seen such a beast before, so they called it a dragon. They trembled in fear of the dragon until a brave man decided to kill the monster by tricking it into eating a carcass filled with lime. In reality the dragon was a crocodile, the preserved body of which is now displayed at the entrance of the Old Town Hall. Crocodile motifs are common in Brno. A \"krokodýl\" (crocodile in Czech language) is the local stuffed baguette, and the city radio station is known as Radio Krokodýl.\nNext to the \"dragon\" at the Old Town Hall the town's second well-known emblem is displayed. This is a wagon wheel made from a tree found and felled fifty miles away from the city. According to the story, a local man wagered to fell the tree, to make a wheel out of it, and to roll the wheel to the city of Brno, all this within a single day. Since the whole achievement was considered impossible by normal human means, the man was later believed to have called on the devil for assistance, and he died in poverty as a result.\n\nAs a historic memento to victory over the Swedish army in 1645, the local Petrov Cathedral rings noon an hour earlier, at 11 o'clock because the locals and Swedish army were in stalemate and the Swedish general said he would withdraw if his army had not won by noon; the bell ringer tricked him by ringing the bell an hour early. Keeping his word, the general and his army left.\n\nThe most significant museum in Brno is the Moravian Museum which is the largest and the biggest museum in Moravia and the second in the Czech Republic. The museum was founded in 1817 and its collections include over 6 million objects. The biggest public library in Brno is the Moravian Library, it's the second largest library in the Czech Republic with about 4 million volumes. The biggest gallery in Brno is the Moravian Gallery and again it is the second largest institution of its kind in the Czech Republic and the biggest in Moravia. There is also a particular section of the Moravian Museum related to the oldest history of mankind and prehistoric Europe called Anthropos.\n\nThere is also a Technical Museum which is the largest in Moravia and one of the largest in Czech Republic. The permanent expositions of the Technical Museum in Brno show the advance of science and technology, accompanied by various realistic models and restored machines. Short-term exhibitions of many different points of interest are also often held here.\n\nOver the past two decades Brno evolved into an important university city, the number of students of higher education institutions reached 89,000 in 2010. The city also became home to a number of institutions directly related to research and development, like the Central European Institute of Technology (CEITEC), or the International Clinical Research Center in Brno (ICRC). The city is also gaining importance in various fields of engineering, especially in software development, there is a number of companies focused on development operating in Brno. For example, AVG Technologies (headquarters), IBM (Client Innovation Centre Brno), AT&T (American Telephone and Telegraph) Honeywell (Honeywell Global Design Center Brno), Siemens, SGI (CZ headquarters), Red Hat (CZ headquarters), Motorola, etc.\nWith over 40,000 students, Masaryk University is the largest university in Brno and the second biggest in the Czech Republic. Today, it consists of nine faculties, with more than 190 departments, institutes and clinics. It is one of the most significant institutions for education and research in the Czech Republic and a respected Central European university.\n\nThe Brno University of Technology was established in 1899. Today with over 20,000 students it ranks among the Czech's biggest technical universities. Viktor Kaplan, inventor of the Kaplan turbine, spent nearly 30 years at German Technical University in Brno (which ceased to exist in 1945 and its property was transferred to Brno University of Technology).\n\nMendel University, named after the founder of genetics Gregor Mendel who created his revolutionary scientific theories in Brno, has roughly 10,000 students.\n\nJanáček Academy of Music and Performing Arts, named after Leoš Janáček, was founded in 1947 and is one of two academies of music and drama in the Czech Republic. It holds the annual Leoš Janáček Competition.\n\nThe town has a long history of motor racing, among other events, the Masaryk Circuit hosts the prestigious Moto GP championship (since 1965). The annual Czech Republic motorcycle Grand Prix is the most famous motor race in the Czech Republic, it is held here since 1950. Since 1968, Brno has been a permanent fixture on the European Touring Car Championship (ETCC) series.\n\n2010 FIBA World Championship for Women, where Czech squad managed to achieve silver medal, was played in Brno's Arena Vodova.\n\nThere is also a horse-race course at Brno-Dvorska and an aeroclub airport in Medlánky. Several sports clubs play the highest Czech league, respectively. For example, (football) FC Zbrojovka Brno, (ice hockey) HC Kometa Brno, (handball) KP Brno, (basketball) BC Brno (men) and BK Brno (women), four baseball teams (AVG Draci Brno, Hroši Brno, VSK Technika Brno, MZLU Express Brno), lacrosse team Brno Ravens Lacrosse Club, American football team (Brno Alligators), two rugby teams (RC Dragon Brno, RC Bystrc) and others. Tennis player Lucie Šafářová comes from Brno as well as Lukáš Rosol, who managed to beat top-player Rafael Nadal in the second round of the 2012 Wimbledon Championships. Michal Březina, one of the best Czech figure skaters, also comes from Brno.\n\nPublic transport in Brno consists of 12 tram lines (1 historic with old tram), 14 trolleybus lines (the largest trolleybus network in the Czech Republic) and almost 40 day and 11 night bus lines. Trams (often called \"Šaliny\" by the locals ) have a long tradition in Brno; they first appeared on the streets in 1869; this was the first operation of horse-drawn trams in the current Czech Republic. The local public transport system is interconnected with regional public transport in one integrated system called IDS JMK, and also directly connects several nearby municipalities with the city. Its main operator is the \"DPmB\" company (Brno City Transport Company) which also operates a ferry route, mainly recreational, at the Brno Dam Lake. There is a tourist minibus providing a brief tour of the city. The city also plans to build a metro system light rail system to alleviate overcrowding of trams and to reduce the congestion on the surface.\n\nRailway transport started to operate in the city in 1839 on the Brno–Vienna line; this was the first operating railway line in the current Czech Republic. Today's Brno is a railway junction of supranational importance; for passenger traffic there are nine stations and stops. The current main railway station is the central hub of regional train services; every day about 50,000 passengers use it and 500 trains pass through it; it is currently operating at full capacity. The current main station building is outdated and lacks sufficient operating capacity, but the construction of the new station has been postponed several times for various reasons. A Central station referendum was due on 7 and 8 October 2016, the same day as regional elections.\n\nRoad transport makes Brno an international crossroad of highways. There are two motorways on the southern edge of the city, D1 leading to Ostrava and to Prague and D2 leading to Bratislava. Not far from the city limits there is also one expressway, R52, leading to Vienna; another expressway, R43, which will connect Brno to northwestern Moravia, is planned. The city is gradually building the large city ring road (road I/42), several road tunnels were built (Tunnels Pisarky, Husovice, Hlinky and Královopolský) and more tunnels are planned. Also, due to the congestion in private transport the city continues to strive to build more parking ramps including underground ones, but this effort has not always been successful.\n\nAir transport is enabled by two functional airports. One of them is a public international airport Brno-Tuřany Airport. The airport has seen a sharp increase in passenger traffic up to 2011, however the amount of served passengers has been since in decline with the only remaining scheduled flights being to London and Munich. As an attempt to reverse the situation, Brno-Tuřany Airport is to serve as the base for the Brno-based airline Blue Air Moravia a subsidiary of Blue Air that is set to begin operations in March 2018, with plans for scheduled service to Barcelona, Brussels, Milan, Lviv and Rome. The airport also serves as one of the two bases for police helicopters in the Czech Republic. The other airport, Medlánky Airport, is a small domestic airport serving mainly recreational activities such as flying hot air balloons, gliders or aircraft RC models.\n\nCycling is widespread in Brno also due to lowland nature of the landscape. Existing tracks for cycling and roller skating in 2011 measured in total approximately and are gradually being expanded. And there is also one long bikeway leading to Vienna, which is one of Brno's sister cities, the track is approximately long. Several hiking trails of the Czech Tourist Club also pass through Brno.\n\nBrno is twinned with the following cities:\nThis tool shows only cities with population over 300,000 in radius of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29459254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29459254", "title": "Cave of the Ramban", "text": "Cave of the Ramban\n\nThe Cave of the Ramban is located in the southern cliff of the Upper Kidron Valley, on a slope descending into the Arab neighborhood of Wadi al-Joz, Jerusalem. It is believed by some to be the traditional burial place of Nahmanides (also known as Ramban), a foremost rabbinical scholar during the medieval era.\n\nThe large rock-hewn cave, measuring 19 by 20 m, reaches a height of 3.5 meters and is supported by two columns. The area once functioned as an ancient underground stone quarry. Above the façade, in the upper portion of the cliff, are the remains of a square rock-cut chamber which may have been used for burials.\n\nThe cave is believed by some Jews to be the site where Ramban prayed in the 13th-century and the place of his interment. It is thus claimed to have been a holy site for Jews for many centuries.\n\nIn 2000, the cave became a subject of controversy between a group of Jewish inhabitants in Wadi al-Joz and the Muslim owner of the site, who had fenced off the cave in protest to Jewish settlement in the area. The National Authority for Holy Sites convinced the Ministry of Religious Affairs of its religious significance and the cave was declared a holy site and handed over to the ministry’s control. The Muslim \"wakf\" subsequently petitioned the High Court of Justice which resulted in a temporary injunction freezing the site's designation. In 2003, a government committee was appointed to examine the issue. While acknowledging the site's connection to the Jewish faith, it was decided that the court could rule on the matter. This however was thwarted when the holy status was reinstated by a government minister. The \"wakf\" persisted in its battle for control of the site in the courts and in 2008 it was decided that the cave be placed under the \"wakfs\" authority and Jews were banned from entering.\n\nOther traditions hold that Ramban was buried in Silwan, in Hebron or in Acre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8375044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8375044", "title": "Central Asian studies", "text": "Central Asian studies\n\nCentral Asian studies is the discipline of studying the culture, history, and languages of Central Asia. The roots of Central Asian studies as a social science discipline goes to 19th century Anglo-Russian Great Game. During the 19th century, Central Asia became a subject of systematical information collection and organization thanks to the numerous travels made by British and Russian agents, soldiers, scholars into the region. The British Royal Geographical Society and Russian Geographical Society published dozens of travel books on the region.\n\nContemporary Central Asian studies have been developed by pioneers such as Nicholas Poppe, Denis Sinor, Ilse Laude-Cirtautas, Alexandre Bennigsen, Edward Allworth, Yuri Bregel and Hasan Bulent Paksoy among others. Several American research universities have programs on Central Asia. The Mongolian and Altaic Studies Program within the Far Eastern and Russian Institute at the University of Washington (UW), established under Poppe's direction in 1949, became an early prototype of Central Asian Studies. The Central Asian Studies Program, later formed by Cirtautas in 1968 at the UW, and the Department of Central Eurasian Studies at Indiana University have been the leading research and teaching programs. Many scholars involved in Central Asia studies belong to the Central Eurasian Studies Society.\n\nOne of the oldest sources for Central Asia are the memoirs of travelers who passed through Central Asia. Some of the earliest extant examples were left by Arab geographers who passed through the region. In the 19th centuries numerous European and American published their travelogues of Central Asia. This includes American journalist Anna Louise Strong who passed through Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in the 1920s.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "198778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198778", "title": "Composer", "text": "Composer\n\nA composer (Latin \"compōnō\"; literally \"one who puts together\") is a musician who is an author of music in any form, including vocal music (for a singer or choir), instrumental music, electronic music, and music which combines multiple forms. A composer may create music in any music genre, including, for example, classical music, musical theatre, blues, folk music, jazz, and popular music. Composers often express their works in a written musical score using musical notation.\n\nMany composers are, or were, also skilled performers of music.\n\nSince musical notation only incompletely expresses a piece of music, there is a whole continuum of possibilities concerning how much the performer determines the final form of the rendered work in a concert. Even in a classical piece of instrumental music in which all of the melodies, chords, and basslines are written out in musical notation, the performer has a good degree of latitude to add artistic interpretation to the work by varying her articulation and phrasing, choosing how long to make fermatas (held notes) or pauses, and — in the case of bowed string instruments, woodwinds or brass instruments — deciding whether to use expressive effects such as vibrato or portamento. For a singer or instrumental performer, the process of deciding how to perform music that has been previously composed and notated is termed \"interpretation\". Different performers' interpretations of the same work of music can vary widely, in terms of the tempos that are chosen and the playing or singing style or phrasing of the melodies. Composers and songwriters who present their own music are interpreting, just as much as those who perform the music of others. The standard body of choices and techniques present at a given time and a given place is referred to as performance practice, whereas interpretation is generally used to mean the individual choices of a performer.\n\nAlthough a musical composition often has a single author, this is not always the case. A work of music can have multiple composers, which often occurs in popular music when a band collaborates to write a song, or in musical theatre, where the songs may be written by one person, the orchestration of the accompaniment parts and writing of the overture is done by an orchestrator, and the words may be written by a third person.\n\nA piece of music can also be composed with words, images, or, in the 20th and 21st century, computer programs that explain or notate how the singer or musician should create musical sounds. Examples of this range from wind chimes jingling in a breeze, to avant-garde music from the 20th century that uses graphic notation, to text compositions such as \"Aus den sieben Tagen\", to computer programs that select sounds for musical pieces. Music that makes heavy use of randomness and chance is called aleatoric music, and is associated with contemporary composers active in the 20th century, such as John Cage, Morton Feldman, and Witold Lutosławski.\n\nMusic composed in the Baroque era, particularly in slow tempos, often was written in bare outline, with the expectation that the performer would add improvised ornaments to the melody line during a performance. Such freedom diminished in later eras, reflected in the increased use by composers of detailed notation, including marks of expression telling the performer more precisely how the work should be executed. A culture eventually developed whereby faithfulness to the composer's written intention came to be highly valued (see, for example, Urtext edition). This musical culture is almost certainly related to the high esteem (bordering on veneration) in which the leading classical composers are often held by performers.\n\nThe historically informed performance movement has revived to some extent the possibility of the performer elaborating in a serious way the music as given in the score, particularly for Baroque music and music from the early Classical period. The movement might be considered a way of creating \"greater\" faithfulness to the original in works composed at a time that expected performers to improvise. In genres other than classical music, the performer generally has more freedom; thus for instance when a performer of Western popular music creates a \"cover\" of an earlier song, there is little expectation of exact rendition of the original; nor is exact faithfulness highly valued (with the possible exception of \"note-for-note\" transcriptions of famous guitar solos).\n\nIn Classical music, the composer typically orchestrates his or her own compositions, but in musical theatre and in pop music, songwriters may hire an arranger to do the orchestration. In some cases, a pop songwriter may not use notation at all, and instead compose the song in his or her mind and then play or record it from memory. In jazz and popular music, notable recordings by influential performers are given the weight that written scores play in classical music. The study of composition has traditionally been dominated by examination of methods and practice of Western classical music, but the definition of composition is broad enough the creation of popular and traditional music songs and instrumental pieces and to include spontaneously improvised works like those of free jazz performers and African percussionists such as Ewe drummers.\n\nThe level of distinction between composers and other musicians varies, which affects issues such as copyright and the deference given to individual interpretations of a particular piece of music. In the development of European classical music, the function of composing music initially did not have much greater importance than that of performing it. The preservation of individual compositions did not receive enormous attention and musicians generally had no qualms about modifying compositions for performance. In as much as the role of the composer in western art music has seen continued solidification, in alternative idioms (i.e. jazz, experimental music) it has in some ways become increasingly complex or vague. For instance, in certain contexts the line between composer and performer, sound designer, arranger, producer, and other roles, can be quite blurred.\nThe term \"composer\" is often used to refer to composers of instrumental music, such as those found in classical, jazz or other forms of art and traditional music. In popular and folk music, the composer is usually called a songwriter, since the music generally takes the form of a song. Since the mid-20th century, the term has expanded to accommodate creators of electroacoustic music, in which composers directly create sonic material in any of the various electronic media, such as reel-to-reel tape and electronic effects units, which may be presented to an audience by replaying a tape or other sound recording, or by having live instrumentalists and singers perform with prerecorded material. This is distinct from a 19th-century conception of instrumental composition, where the work was represented solely by a musical score to be interpreted by performers.\n\nMusic was an important part of social and cultural life in Ancient Greece. We know that composers wrote notated music during the Ancient Greek era because scholars have found the Seikilos epitaph. The epitaph, written around 200 BC to around AD 100 is the oldest surviving example of a complete musical composition, including musical notation, in the world. The song, the melody of which is recorded, alongside its lyrics, in the ancient Greek musical notation, was found engraved on a tombstone, a stele, near Aydın, Turkey (not far from Ephesus). It is a Hellenistic Ionic song in either the Phrygian octave species or Iastian tonos.\n\nDuring the Medieval music era (476 to 1400), composers wrote monophonic (single melodic line) chanting into Roman Catholic Church services. Western Music then started becoming more of an art form with the advances in music notation. The only European Medieval repertory that survives from before about 800 is the monophonic liturgical plainsong of the Roman Catholic Church, the central tradition of which was called Gregorian chant. Alongside these traditions of sacred and church music there existed a vibrant tradition of secular song (non-religious songs). Examples of composers from this period are Léonin, Pérotin and Guillaume de Machaut.\n\nDuring the Renaissance music era (c. 1400 to 1600) composers tended to focus more on writing songs about secular (non-religious) themes, such as courtly love. Around 1450, the printing press was invented, which made printed sheet music much less expensive and easier to mass-produce (prior to the invention of the printing press, all notated music was hand-copied). The increased availability of sheet music helped to spread composers' musical styles more quickly and across a larger area. By the middle of the 15th century, composers were writing richly polyphonic sacred music, in which different melody lines were interwoven simultaneously. Prominent composers from this era include Guillaume Dufay, Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, Thomas Morley, and Orlande de Lassus. As musical activity shifted from the church to the aristocratic courts, kings, queens and princes competed for the finest composers. Many leading important composers came from the Netherlands, Belgium, and northern France. They are called the Franco-Flemish composers. They held important positions throughout Europe, especially in Italy. Other countries with vibrant musical activity included Germany, England, and Spain.\n\nDuring the Baroque era of music (1600 to 1750), composers expanded the range and complexity of the music they were writing. The Baroque music era began when composers looked back to Ancient Greek music for the inspiration to create operas (dramatic vocal music accompanied by orchestra). Another key style of music composers used during this era was contrapuntal music. This style of writing required composers to have an advanced knowledge of music theory, as contrapuntal music involves multiple, independent melody lines played by instruments or sung by voices. There were strict counterpoint rules that composers had to learn. German Baroque composers wrote for small ensembles including strings, brass, and woodwinds, as well as choirs and for keyboard instruments such as pipe organ, harpsichord, and clavichord. During this period, composers developed several major music forms that lasted into later periods when they were expanded and evolved further, including the fugue, the invention, the sonata, and the concerto. The late Baroque style was polyphonically complex and richly ornamented. Some of the best-known composers from the Baroque era include Claudio Monteverdi, Heinrich Schütz, Jean-Baptiste Lully, Dieterich Buxtehude, Arcangelo Corelli, Henry Purcell, François Couperin, Antonio Vivaldi, Georg Philipp Telemann, Jean-Philippe Rameau, Johann Sebastian Bach and George Frideric Handel.\n\nComposers of music of the Classical Period (1750 to 1830) looked to the art and philosophy of Ancient Greece and Rome, to the ideals of balance, proportion and disciplined expression. Apart from when writing religious works, composers moved towards writing in a lighter, clearer and considerably simpler texture, using instrumental melodies that tended to be almost voicelike and singable. New genres were developed by composers. The main style was homophony, where a prominent melody and a subordinate chordal accompaniment part are clearly distinct.\n\nComposers focused on instrumental music. It was dominated by further development of musical forms initially defined in the Baroque period: the sonata, the concerto, and the symphony. Others main kinds were the trio, string quartet, serenade and divertimento. The sonata was the most important and developed form. Although Baroque composers also wrote sonatas, the Classical style of sonata is completely distinct. All of the main instrumental forms of the Classical era, from string quartets to symphonies and concertos, were based on the structure of the sonata.\n\nOne of the most important changes made in the Classical period was the development of public concerts. The aristocracy still played a significant role in the sponsorship of concerts and compositions, but it was now possible for composers to survive without being permanent employees of queens or princes. The increasing popularity of classical music led to a growth in the number and types of orchestras. The expansion of orchestral concerts necessitated the building of large public performance spaces. Symphonic music including symphonies, musical accompaniment to ballet and mixed vocal/instrumental genres such as opera and oratorio became more popular.\n\nThe best known composers of Classicism are Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven and Franz Schubert. Beethoven and Schubert are also considered to be composers in the later part of the Classical era, as it began to move towards Romanticism.\n\nDuring the Romantic music era (c. 1810 to 1900), composers turned the rigid styles and forms of the Classical era into more passionate, dramatic expressive pieces. Composers attempted to increase emotional expression and power of their music, and they tried to describe deeper truths or human feelings. With symphonic tone poems, composers tried to tell stories and evoke images or landscapes using instrumental music. Some composers promoted nationalistic pride with patriotic orchestral music inspired by folk music. For composers, the emotional and expressive qualities of music came to take precedence over following textbooks and tradition. Romantic composers grew in idiosyncrasy, and went further in the syncretism of exploring different art-forms in a musical context, (such as literature), history (historical figures and legends), or nature itself. Romantic love or longing was a prevalent theme in many works composed during this period. In some cases the formal structures from the classical period continued to be used (e.g., the sonata form used in string quartets and symphonies), but these forms were expanded and altered. In many cases, composers explored new approaches to use for existing genres, forms, and functions. Also, composers created new forms that were deemed better suited to the new subject matter. Opera and ballet continued to develop.\n\nIn the years after 1800, the music developed by Ludwig van Beethoven and Franz Schubert introduced a more dramatic, expressive style. In Beethoven's case, short motifs, developed organically, came to replace melody as the most significant compositional unit (an example is the distinctive four note figure used in his Fifth Symphony). Later Romantic composers such as Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Antonín Dvořák, and Gustav Mahler used more unusual chords and more dissonance to create dramatic tension. They generated complex and often much longer musical works. During the late Romantic period, composers explored dramatic chromatic alterations of tonality, such as extended chords and altered chords, which created new sound \"colours\". Composers in the Romantic era increased the size of the orchestra by adding players and using new instruments, creating a more powerful sound. Some Wagnerian orchestras included multiple harps, massive string sections and Wagner tubas.\n\nIn the 19th century, one of the key ways that new compositions became known to the public was by the sales of sheet music, which amateur music lovers would perform at home on their piano or other instruments. With 20th-century music, there was a vast increase in music listening as the radio gained popularity and phonographs were used to replay and distribute music. In the 20th century, contemporary classical composers were also influenced by the African-American improvisation-based jazz music. The jazz influence can be seen in Third Stream music and in the compositions of Leonard Bernstein. The focus of art music was characterized by exploration of new rhythms, styles, and sounds. Igor Stravinsky, Arnold Schoenberg, and John Cage were all influential composers in 20th-century art music. Cage wrote compositions for traditional classical instruments and unusual sound-producing devices not normally thought of as instruments, such as radios. The invention of sound recording and the ability to edit music on tape gave rise to new subgenre of classical music, including the acousmatic and Musique concrète schools of electronic composition, in which composers made pieces using reel-to-reel tape recorders and electronic equipment.\n\nIn 1993, American musicologist Marcia Citron asked \"[w]hy is music composed by women so marginal to the standard 'classical' repertoire?\" Citron \"examines the practices and attitudes that have led to the exclusion of women composers from the received 'canon' of performed musical works.\" She argues that in the 1800s, women composers typically wrote art songs for performance in small recitals rather than symphonies intended for performance with an orchestra in a large hall, with the latter works being seen as the most important genre for composers; since women composers did not write many symphonies, they were deemed to be not notable as composers.\n\nAccording to Abbey Philips, \"women musicians have had a very difficult time breaking through and getting the credit they deserve.\" During the Medieval eras, most of the art music was created for liturgical (religious) purposes and due to the views about the roles of women that were held by religious leaders, few women composed this type of music, with the nun Hildegard von Bingen being among the exceptions. Most university textbooks on the history of music discuss almost exclusively the role of male composers. As well, very few works by women composers are part of the standard repertoire of classical music. In the \"Concise Oxford History of Music\", Clara Schumann is the only woman composer who is mentioned. Philips states that \"[d]uring the 20th century the women who were composing/playing gained far less attention than their male counterparts.\"\n\nWomen today are being taken more seriously in the realm of concert music, though the statistics of recognition, prizes, employment, and overall opportunities are still biased toward men.\n\nFamous composers have a tendency to cluster in certain cities throughout history. Based on over 12,000 prominent composers listed in \"Grove Music Online\" and using word count measurement techniques, the most important cities for classical music can be quantitatively identified.\n\nParis has been the main hub for classical music in all periods. It was ranked fifth in the 15th and 16th centuries but first in the 17th to 20th centuries inclusive. London was the second most meaningful city: eighth in the 15th century, seventh in the 16th, fifth in the 17th, second in the 18th and 19th centuries, and fourth in the 20th century. Rome topped the rankings in the 15th century, dropped to second in the 16th and 17th centuries, eighth in the 18th century, ninth in the 19th century but back at sixth in the 20th century. Berlin appears in the top ten ranking only in the 18th century, and was ranked third most important city in both the 19th and 20th centuries. New York City entered the rankings in the 19th century (at fifth place) and stood at second rank in the 20th century. The patterns are very similar for a sample of 522 top composers.\n\nProfessional classical composers often have a background in performing classical music during their childhood and teens, either as a singer in a choir, as a player in a youth orchestra, or as a performer on a solo instrument (e.g., piano, pipe organ, or violin). Teens aspiring to be composers can continue their postsecondary studies in a variety of formal training settings, including colleges, conservatories, and universities. Conservatories, which are the standard musical training system in France and in Quebec (Canada) provide lessons and amateur orchestral and choral singing experience for composition students. Universities offer a range of composition programs, including bachelor's degrees, Master of Music degrees, and Doctor of Musical Arts degrees. As well, there are a variety of other training programs such as classical summer camps and festivals, which give students the opportunity to get coaching from composers.\n\nBachelor's degrees in composition (referred to as B.Mus. or B.M) are four-year programs that include individual composition lessons, amateur orchestra/choral experience, and a sequence of courses in music history, music theory, and liberal arts courses (e.g., English literature), which give the student a more well-rounded education. Usually, composition students must complete significant pieces or songs before graduating. Not all composers hold a B.Mus. in composition; composers may also hold a B.Mus. in music performance or music theory.\n\nMaster of music degrees (M.mus.) in composition consist of private lessons with a composition professor, ensemble experience, and graduate courses in music history and music theory, along with one or two concerts featuring the composition student's pieces. A Master's degree in music (referred to as an M.Mus. or M.M.) is often a required minimum credential for people who wish to teach composition at a university or conservatory. A composer with an M.Mus. could be an adjunct professor or instructor at a university, but it would be difficult in the 2010s to obtain a tenure track professor position with this degree.\n\nTo become a tenure track professor, many universities require a doctoral degree. In composition, the key doctoral degree is the Doctor of Musical Arts, rather than the PhD; the PhD is awarded in music, but typically for subjects such as musicology and music theory.\n\nDoctor of Musical Arts (referred to as D.M.A., DMA, D.Mus.A. or A.Mus.D) degrees in composition provide an opportunity for advanced study at the highest artistic and pedagogical level, requiring usually an additional 54+ credit hours beyond a master's degree (which is about 30+ credits beyond a bachelor's degree). For this reason, admission is highly selective. Students must submit examples of their compositions. If available, some schools will also accept video or audio recordings of performances of the student's pieces. Examinations in music history, music theory, ear training/dictation, and an entrance examination are required.\n\nStudents must prepare significant compositions under the guidance of faculty composition professors. Some schools require DMA composition students to present concerts of their works, which are typically performed by singers or musicians from the school. The completion of advanced coursework and a minimum B average are other typical requirements of a D.M.A program. During a D.M.A. program, a composition student may get experience teaching undergraduate music students.\n\nSome classical composers did not complete composition programs, but focused their studies on performance of voice or an instrument or on music theory, and developed their compositional skills over the course of a career in another musical occupation.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, most composers worked for the Catholic church and composed music for religious services such as plainchant melodies. During the Renaissance music era, composers typically worked for aristocratic employers. While aristocrats typically required composers to produce a significant amount of religious music, such as Masses, composers also penned many non-religious songs on the topic of courtly love: the respectful, reverential love of a great woman from afar. Courtly love songs were very popular during the Renaissance era. During the Baroque music era, many composers were employed by aristocrats or as church employees. During the Classical period, composers began to organize more public concerts for profit, which helped composers to be less dependent on aristocratic or church jobs. This trend continued in the Romantic music era in the 19th century. In the 20th century, composers began to seek employment as professors in universities and conservatories. In the 20th century, composers also earned money from the sales of their works, such sheet music publications of their songs or pieces or as sound recordings of their works.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1558269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558269", "title": "Country Reports on Human Rights Practices", "text": "Country Reports on Human Rights Practices\n\nCountry Reports on Human Rights Practices are publications on the annual human rights conditions in countries and regions outside the United States, submitted annually by the United States Department of State to the United States Congress. The reports cover internationally recognized individual, civil, political, and worker rights, as set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The first report covered the year 1976, issued in 1977.\n\nThe People's Republic of China has responded to frequent criticism in this report by releasing a similar annual report titled the \"Human Rights Record of the United States.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3408520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3408520", "title": "David C. Driskell", "text": "David C. Driskell\n\nDavid C. Driskell (born June 7, 1931 in Eatonton, Georgia) is an artist and a scholar in the field of African-American art. Driskell is an emeritus professor at the University of Maryland, College Park.\n\nDriskell holds a Master of Fine Arts degree from Catholic University and nine Honorary Doctoral degrees. In 2000, Driskell was honored by President Bill Clinton as one of 12 recipients of the National Humanities Medal.\n\"David C. Driskell: Artist and Scholar\" by Julie L. McGee, a book detailing Driskell's life and work, was published in 2006.\n\nDriskell is represented by DC Moore Gallery. His first exhibition at the gallery was held in October 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25919213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25919213", "title": "Death by a Thousand Cuts (book)", "text": "Death by a Thousand Cuts (book)\n\nDeath by a Thousand Cuts is a book by the historians Timothy Brook and Gregory Blue and scientific researcher Jérôme Bourgon which examines the use of slow slicing or \"lingchi\", a form of torture and capital punishment practised in mid- and late-Imperial China from the tenth century until its abolition in 1905.\n\n\"Death by a Thousand Cuts\" investigates the use of slow slicing or \"lingchi\", a form of torture and capital punishment practised in mid- and late-Imperial China from the tenth century until its abolition in 1905. \"Lingchi\" involved repeatedly slicing the convict's flesh beyond the point of death.\n\nBy the time of the final imperial dynasty, the punishment could be meted out for an offence as simple as striking a teacher.\n\nThe authors argue that this was more than a physical punishment, as the victim was sedated with opium and killed early in the process, but about denying the victim \"somatic integrity\" and denying them any hope of a life after death which, the authors argue, caused them to feel shame.\n\nA staff reviewer at \"The New Yorker\" describes the book as a \"fascinating study\".\n\nA staff reviewer at \"The Times\" states that \"the authors present a nuanced picture of state-imposed execution and, without at any time condoning, succeed in their goal of contextualising \"lingchi\" in relation to Western forms of punishment\" and that \"this challenging and important work will appeal not solely to Sinologists, but to legal historians and students of visual representation.\"\n\nJonathan Mirsky in \"Literary Review\" writes that \"[the authors] write coolly and formally, but this is a book primarily about torment.\"\n\n\"Death by a Thousand Cuts\" was a finalist and received an honourable mention for the Professional/Scholarly Publishing (PSP) Division of the Association of American Publishers 2008 PROSE Award, in the World History and Biography/Autobiography category.\n\nTimothy Brook is Professor of History at the University of British Columbia. Jérôme Bourgon is a researcher at the Institut d’Asie Orientale / Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Lyon. Gregory Blue is Associate Professor of History at the University of Victoria.\n\n"}
{"id": "67646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67646", "title": "Demographics of the Bahamas", "text": "Demographics of the Bahamas\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of the Bahamas, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population of pie.\nNinety percent of the Bahamian population identifies as being primarily of African ancestry. About two-thirds of the population lives on New Providence Island (the location of Nassau), and about half of the remaining one-third lives on Grand Bahama (the location of Freeport).\n\nThe islands were sparsely settled and a haven for pirates until the late 18th century, when thousands of British Loyalists were given compensatory land grants following the American Revolution. Many new settlers were from the Southern United States and brought slaves with them to cultivate plantations. At the turn of the 20th century, the total population was 53,000.\n\nSchool attendance is compulsory between the ages of 5 and 16. There are 158 public schools and 52 private schools in the Bahamas catering to more than 66,000 students. The College of the Bahamas, established in Nassau in 1974, provides programmes leading to associate's degrees and bachelor's degrees; the college is now converting from a two-year to a four-year institution.\n\nStructure of the population (01.07.2013) (estimates):\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from The World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated \n\n\n\n\nAccording to The World Factbook, the Bahamas has an HIV/AIDS prevalence rate of 3.3%, which is the highest rate outside of Africa.\n\nLife expectancy\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n"}
{"id": "29113320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29113320", "title": "Dog writer", "text": "Dog writer\n\nA dog writer is someone who writes about dogs, for example in reporting on dog shows; or in writing articles about dog care or training or breed features for publications about dogs; or in writing dog- or pet-care columns or 'human' interest articles about dogs for general publications.\n\nIn 1935 the term was apparently first used when the Dog Writers Association was established. They state 'Some 70 years ago, there was no such thing as a dog writer. There were newsmen and newswomen and magazine writers. Most of the papers assigned sportswriters, reporters, and even copyboys, to cover dog shows. Still, these were the ones who made the dog world an indelible part of our popular culture by writing about dogs on the sports pages of most papers.'\n"}
{"id": "16909416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16909416", "title": "Elliot Sperling", "text": "Elliot Sperling\n\nElliot Sperling (January 4, 1951 – January 29, 2017) was one of the world's leading historians of Tibet and Tibetan-Chinese relations, and a MacArthur Fellow. He spent most of his scholarly career as an associate professor at Indiana University's Department of Central Eurasian Studies, with seven years as the department's chair.\n\nBorn and raised in New York City to a family that underscored the importance of education, hard work, modesty, and social responsibility, Sperling developed a political and social awareness from a very young age.\nAttending Queens College in the early 1970s at the height of the counterculture movement only served to kindle in him a youthful idealism that was never extinguished. While in college, Sperling traveled widely. An overland journey from Istanbul to Delhi with stops in the fabled cities of Erzurum, Tabriz, Tehran, and Herat fueled his passion for the study of faraway lands. A short sojourn in India developed into a love affair\nwith that country and culture; Sperling would revisit India numerous times later (including as a Fulbright fellow). Upon his return from Delhi, having encountered for the first time Tibetans in exile, Sperling changed his major to East Asian studies.\n\nEquipped with knowledge of Chinese made stronger by an overseas study of the language in Taiwan, Sperling matriculated at Indiana University’s Department of Uralic and Altaic Studies (renamed Central Eurasian Studies\nin 1993), where his career would be shaped and developed for the next four decades. The department was already internationally renowned, in part owing to the presence on the faculty of Taktser Rinpoche, the Dalai Lama’s eldest brother. Sperling studied modern and classical Tibetan, perfected his knowledge of modern and classical Chinese, and wrote his doctoral dissertation, \"Early Ming Policy toward Tibet: An Examination of the Proposition that the Early Ming Emperors Adopted a \"Divide and Rule\" Policy toward Tibet\", in 1983. The dissertation has been widely acknowledged as the most influential study on the subject.\n\nA product of the public education system, Sperling took his first faculty position also at a public institution, the University of Southern Mississippi (USM). Shortly after arriving in Hattiesburg, he was awarded the prestigious MacArthur Fellowship (1984–89). After a short spell at USM, Sperling returned to Indiana University in 1987, as a faculty member. He would remain at the university, a much-loved teacher, until December 2015, with occasional visiting professorships elsewhere, including Harvard University (1992–93) and the University of Delhi (1994–95). Over the years, Sperling mentored numerous graduate students who pursue both academic and nonacademic careers all over the world. Sperling died in January 2017.\n\nIn his research, based predominantly on original, primary sources in Tibetan and Chinese, Sperling focused on questions of sovereignty and boundaries; on types of political, social, and familial authority; on Chinese \npolicy toward Tibet; and on the complicated roles of Tibetan officials in the service of both Tibetan and Chinese governments. He wrote about bureaucrats, monks, mediators, and envoys to the Tangut, Yuan, Ming, and Qing courts, and his research covered many periods, ranging from the ninth century to the present. In addition to his focus on the Ming period, Sperling is especially recognized for his interventions on the study of the Tangut people, on Mongol presence in and influence on Tibet in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, on the reign of the Fifth Dalai Lama and other eminent personalities of his era, and on Tibet’s status under the Qing. Sperling served on, consulted or directed numerous professional boards.\n\nIn his work, \"Sperling has been a judicious voice in increasingly less discerning times. He has censured (including during appearances in China) the Chinese government’s oppressive policies in Tibet. He has criticized the \nDalai Lama and Tibet’s government-in-exile (also during appearances in India) for giving up on Tibetan independence and for their ignorance of China’s real positions. He has rejected the Tibetophiles’ view of Tibet as an unspoiled bastion of pure spirituality. And he never had much patience for scholars who easily become groupies of academic fashions.\"\n\nIn 2014, a festschrift in his honor, entitled \"Trails of the Tibetan Tradition: Papers for Elliot Sperling\", was published by the Amnye Machen Institute in Dharamshala, India. The volume is open access through the \"Revue d'Etudes Tibétaines\".\n\nSperling also was a champion of human rights. Most recently, his public engagement was exemplified in the case of Ilham Tohti. Tohti, a Uyghur professor of economics at Minzu University in Beijing, was to spend a\nyear at Indiana University—at the university’s invitation—in 2014 as a visiting professor. He was detained in the Beijing airport, just prior to boarding his flight to Indianapolis, on charges of “separatism” (charges that were characterized as completely made up by the U.S. State Department, the European Union, and many other international bodies) and has since been sentenced by the Chinese government to life imprisonment. Sperling became one of the most outspoken individual voices arguing for Ilham Tohti’s innocence and release. This endeavor was not new for Sperling. He had served on the Committee on Religious Freedom Abroad for the U.S. Department of State (1996–99), and he had testified before the Groupe d’information du Sénat sur le Tibet (France), the Parliamentary Human Rights Group (United Kingdom), the Congressional-Executive Committee on China, the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, the House of Representatives Committee on International Relations, and many others. His expertise was particularly requested on matters of human rights in Tibet, Tibet-China relations, ethnic minorities in China, and U.S.–China relations. His opinion pieces and commentary were published in venues such as the \"New York Times\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", the \"Times of India\", \"Jane’s Intelligence Review\", and the \"Far Eastern Economic Review\".\n\nFor a relatively full list of Elliot Sperling's publications, consult \"Trails of the Tibetan Tradition: Papers for Elliot Sperling\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8774042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8774042", "title": "Environmental health officer", "text": "Environmental health officer\n\nEnvironmental Health Officers (also known as Public Health Inspectors or Environmental Health Practitioners) are responsible for carrying out measures for protecting public health, including administering and enforcing legislation related to environmental health and providing support to minimize health and safety hazards. Environmental Health Practitioners are multi-skilled in many areas with individuals being highly trained, usually to degree level, and often requiring additional professional training, professional competency assessment and continuing professional development in order to continue to practise in the field.\nThey are involved in a variety of activities, for example inspecting food facilities, investigating public health nuisances, and implementing disease control, conducting work place safety assessments and accident investigation. Environmental health officers are focused on prevention, consultation, investigation, and education of the community regarding health risks and maintaining a safe environment.\n\nEHOs bring to the position an understanding of microbiology, risk assessment, environmental science and technology, food science, knowledge of the built environment as well as the skills and knowledge related to the tracking and control of communicable disease, investigation of environmental health related incidents and criminal investigations. They therefore must also have strong investigative skills and a thorough understanding of the application of legislation related to public health, the built environment, pollution control and workplace safety. Working in partnership with Government Ministries (such as Health, Agriculture and Environment), local municipalities, businesses, community groups, other agencies and individual members of the community, the EHO plays a major role in protecting public health. They are allowed with a permit to select what to inspect.\n\nSome past/historic titles include inspector of nuisances, sanitarian, and sanitary inspector. Other titles that currently exist include environmental health specialist/practitioner/professional, public health officer, health officer, health inspector, and health official. The legal title used will depend on the definitions found in local legislation/jurisdiction.\n\nEnvironmental health professionals are usually employed by local government or state health authorities to advise on and enforce public health standards. However, many are employed in the private sector the military and other third sector agencies such as charities and NGOs.\n\nThe following represents jobs that can be found in either the public or private sectors:\n\nThe common identifier of environmental health personnel is that they are responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of risks to human health from factors in the environment, whether on behalf of government agencies or commercial and industrial concerns.\n\nA Public Health Inspector (also known as an Environmental Health Officer) investigates health hazards in a wide variety of settings, and will take action to mitigate or eliminate the hazards. Usually the public perception of a health inspector is someone who examines restaurants and ensures they maintain sanitary standards for food safety set by the regulating authority. However, public health inspectors have much broader job duties, including inspecting swimming pools, substandard housing conditions, public schools, day cares, nursing homes, and personal service establishments such as tattoo parlours. Depending on their jurisdiction, Registered Environmental Health Officers often permit and inspect wells, private water systems, and individual subsurface sewage disposal (septic) systems. Other tasks include: campground inspections, tanning salon inspections, beauty salon inspections, correctional facility inspections and mobile home park inspection. The public health inspector (environmental health officer) also plays a vital role in community projects such as those concerning health promotion, tobacco reduction, healthy built environments/healthy communities, food security, and emergency preparedness.\nThey may also respond to complaints such as animal bites, garbage complaints, odor complaints, or sewage overflows. Due to their educational background they can provide information and referrals with regards to; lead, radon, mold, and emerging diseases such as West Nile Virus and Avian Flu. The field also overlaps with hazardous materials (Hazmat) and many Hazmat responders are also Licensed Environmental Health Practitioners or Registered Environmental Health Specialists.\n\nEnvironmental health officers work with many different people in a variety of environments. Their jobs often involve considerable fieldwork, and some travel frequently. Many environmental health officers work long and often irregular hours. They inspect pools, childcare centers, restaurants, septic systems, and many other types of establishments that relate to health and safety.\n\nEnvironmental health officers may be exposed to many of the same physically strenuous conditions and hazards as industrial employees, and the work may be performed in unpleasant, stressful, and dangerous working conditions. They may find themselves in an adversarial role if the management of an organization disagrees with the recommendations for ensuring a safe working environment.\n\nThe field of environmental health can be traced back to the 1840s in England. Edwin Chadwick, a Poor Law Commissioner, conducted an inquiry into the causes of poverty which concluded that people often became poor because of ill health due to a bad environment. He believed that improving sanitation was the key to breaking this vicious cycle.\n\nChadwick led a vigorous campaign for change which eventually won over the establishment, resulting in the Public Health Act 1848. The Act provided for the appointment of Inspectors of Nuisances – the forerunners of today’s environmental health practitioners – in areas of need.\n\nThe Association of Public Sanitary Inspectors – the organisation which was to become the United Kingdom's Chartered Institute of Environmental Health – was established in 1883. Over subsequent decades, the role of environmental health practitioners changed and grew, with standards of qualification rising until, in the 1960s, it became a graduate profession. The grant of a Royal Charter in 1984 set the seal on this enhanced role and status. As a result of changing roles, the titles have changed over the decades from inspector of nuisances -> sanitary inspector -> public health inspector / environmental health officer (see Inspector of Nuisances below). This is also true internationally, as the titles have changed to reflect the advanced education and roles of environmental health officers today.\n\nAn Inspector of Nuisances was the title of an office in several English-speaking jurisdictions. In many jurisdictions this term is now archaic, the position and/or term having been replaced by others. In the United Kingdom from the mid 19th century this office was generally associated with public health and sanitation.\n\nThe first Inspector of Nuisances appointed by a UK local authority Health Committee was Thomas Fresh in Liverpool in 1844. Both the 1855 Nuisances Removal and Diseases Prevention Act and the Metropolis Management Act 1855 defined such an office but with the title of 'Sanitary Inspector'. In local authorities that had established a Board of Health, the title was 'Inspector of Nuisances'. Eventually the title was standardized across all UK local authorities as 'Sanitary Inspector'. An Act of Parliament later changed the title to 'Public Health Inspector'. Similar offices were established across the British Empire.\n\nThe nearest modern equivalent of this position in the UK is an Environmental Health Officer. This title being adopted by local authorities on the recommendation of Central Government after the Local Government Act 1972. Today, Registered UK Environmental Health Officers working in non-enforcement roles (e.g. in the private sector) may prefer to use the generic term 'Environmental Health Practitioner'.\n\nIn the United States, a modern example of an officer with the title 'Inspector of Nuisances' but not the public health role is found in Section 3767[7] of the Ohio Revised Code which defines such a position to investigate nuisances, where this term broadly covers establishments in which lewdness and alcohol are found. Whereas in the United States the environmental health officer role in local authorities is taken by officers with the titles 'Registered Environmental Health Specialist' or 'Registered Sanitarian' depending on the jurisdiction. The role in the US Public Health Service is undertaken by Commissioned (uniformed) 'Environmental Health Officers'.\n\nEnvironmental health is a graduate career in most countries. The minimum requirements in most countries include an approved university degree program, field training and professional certification & registration.\n\nEnvironmental Health Australia accredits Australian Environmental Health Degree and Graduate Diploma programs in accordance with the Environmental Health Australia Accreditation Policy to ensure course content meets nationally consistent requirements for practice as an EHO anywhere in Australia. As at 1 July 2009 there are EHA-accredited Universities in every State and the Northern Territory.\n\nThe current requirement to become an authorised officer under the Food Act 1984 in Victoria are defined by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. A range of undergraduate and graduate qualifications from Victoria, interstate and overseas are acceptable.\n\nThe Health Act 1911 (as amended) defines the role of 'environmental health officer', and empowers the Executive Director, Public Health to appoint EHOs to local government health authorities and as public health officials employed by State government. The Executive Director, Public Health is advised by the Western Australia Environmental Health Officer Professional Review Board on Environmental Health Graduate and Postgraduate qualifications that are deemed suitable to allow practice in Western Australia, and the qualifications are published from time to time in the Government Gazette.\n\nCurrently Curtin University of Technology and Edith Cowan University offer Environmental Health degrees in Western Australia which are also accredited by Environmental Health Australia.\n\nEntrants to the profession must have either a BAppSc Health Protection or BHSc Environmental Health. Alternatively, suitably qualified science graduates can obtain a graduate diploma in environmental health.\n\nTo become an Environmental Health Officer it is necessary to hold an environmental health degree approved by the Department of Health & Children. The study of Environmental Health in Ireland also requires students to undertake a period of professional practice with the Health Service Executive. Following the period of professional practice, competence must then be demonstrated through an experiential learning logbook and oral examination.\n\nEHOs often hold at least an undergraduate (or postgraduate) qualification recognised by (in England, Wales and Northern Ireland) the Environmental Health Registration Board. \nSimilar provisions exist in Scotland, where the profession is regulated by The Royal Environmental Health Institute of Scotland.\nFollowing the educational requirements and practical training period, competence must then be demonstrated through an experiential learning logbook and oral examination before registration is granted.\n\nEnvironmental Health Officers/Public Health Inspectors have a university degree in environmental health and a national professional certificate – the Certificate in Public Health Inspection (Canada), CPHI(C). \n\nPublic Health Inspectors are highly trained individuals whose training include a bachelor's degree in environmental health followed by certification by the Canadian Institute of Public Health Inspectors (CIPHI). To become nationally certified, public health inspectors must complete a field training practicum, submit a number of reports and pass the Institute's exam. Some inspectors have additional training in areas such as biology, toxicology and epidemiology.\n\nOnly six schools in Canada offer degree programs approved by the CIPHI as meeting the educational component for certification: British Columbia Institute of Technology, Cape Breton University, Concordia University of Edmonton, Conestoga College Institute of Technology and Advanced Learning, First Nations University of Canada, and Ryerson University. These programs are generally four years long, however fast-track programs are available in some schools for those who have completed a previous science degree.\n\nPublic Health Inspectors appointed by the Department of Health, must have passed the Public Health Inspectors Examination conducted by the Department of Health to joined the service as a Public Health Inspector Grade III, thereafter they receive training to a Diploma level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11087006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11087006", "title": "Fitts for Fight", "text": "Fitts for Fight\n\nFitts for Fight was a female duo consisting of Ellinor Aurora Aasgaard and Julie Ilona Balas from Kristiansand in Norway. They became known when it was revealed that the songs they claimed to have written themselves were made by demoscene musicians and downloaded from micromusic.net, while the two women added their own often explicit lyrics to the music. According to micromusic.net they have so far identified songs from 505 of YM Rockerz, Binärpilot, 8 Bit Weapon, Arachno, Printed Circuit, Yerzmyey, Drx of Bodenständig 2000, Jo Petrole and Stu of Drop da Bomb. After it was made public that they had copied the songs, Fitts for Fight deleted the music from their page on MySpace and they were removed from Urørt. Also the festival dropped them from the programme and they were replaced by Binärpilot. Examples of music that Fitts for Fight stole are \"Fuck off and die\" that is actually \"STereoid\" by Stu, \"CrashBurnDestroy\" that is \"Space Travel\" by Yerzmyey, and \"Monstermachine\" that is \"Otosclerosis\" by Binärpilot.\n\nStu of Drop da Bomb has been in contact with the Swiss copyright organisation SUISA who in turn would contact the Norwegian TONO.\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "53605462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53605462", "title": "Frances Butler", "text": "Frances Butler\n\nFrances C. Butler (born 1940 in St. Louis, Missouri) is an American book artist and educator. Butler received her B.A. in History at the University of California, Berkeley in 1961, her M.A. in History at Stanford University in 1963, and a second M.A. in Design at UC Berkeley in 1966. She was a professor at UC Berkeley from 1968–70, and began teaching at UC Davis in 1970. She ran Goodstuffs Handprinted Fabric from 1973–79, and co-founded Poltroon Press with Alastair Johnston in 1975.\n\nThe Poltroon Press was one of several influential small presses in the San Francisco Bay Area, along with Rebis Press (Betsy Davids) and Five Trees Press (Kathleen Walkup, Jamie Robles, Cheryl Miller, etc.), which began their publishing and teaching activities during the mid-1970s.\n\nButler was the first visiting lecturer at the Minnesota Center for Book Arts and \"spoke of book arts in terms of re-defining tradition,\" challenging the center to adopt a more forward-thinking mission.\n\n1981\n1979\n1978\n1977\n1975\n1973\n1970\n\n"}
{"id": "39586003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39586003", "title": "Félicia Mallet", "text": "Félicia Mallet\n\nFélicia Mallet (1863–1928) was a French comedian, singer and pantomime artist.\n\nFélicia Mallet was born in Bordeaux in 1863.\nIn 1887 she played the part of Giovanni Paisiello, the court composer, in the first staging of Victorien Sardou's drama \"La Tosca\".\nIn May 1888 she appeared with the \"Cercle Funambulesque\" pantomime company at the Fantaisies-Parisiennes in its first evening of performances, starring in \"Léandre Ambassadeur\". \nHer performances with the \"Cercle Funambulesque\" launched her into stardom.\n\nIn 1890 Mallet played Pierrot in a production of \"L'Enfant prodigue\" staged in Paris.\nIn 1893 Maurice Lefèvre dedicated his book \"À travers chants\" to Mallet. In it he presented a defense of popular songs.\nGeorges Wague made his debut as a mime in 1893. Mallet assisted him in developing his own individual style in the years that followed. Wague was an innovative mime artist who became a film actor. Mime was important in the early days of silent films since a typical mime sketch was short, did not depend on words and could easily be enhanced by music.\n\nMallet appeared in 1897 at the relatively high-brow \"La Bodinière\" theater, where she sang \"chansons brutales\" after being introduced in a talk by Lefèvre. She sang \"Noël de Pierrot\" and \"Fête des Morts\", both compositions by Xavier Privas. Mallet visited London in 1897 and played Pierrot in \"A Pierrot's Life\" in matinees at the Prince of Wales Theatre. In 1899 Mallet was an understudy for the cabaret singer and actress Yvette Guilbert. Félicia Mallet acted in \"L'Enfant prodigue\" at the Phono-Cinéma-Théâtre, which opened on 28 April 1900 at the Exposition Universelle, and gave programs that featured films with manually synchronized sound tracks as well as live performances.\n\nFélicia Mallet died in 1928, aged about 65. According to Pierre Trimouillat she was \"an incomparable mime, an impeccable story teller and an actress of the first order.\n\nMallet's style of pantomime was more human and natural than the traditional blank-faced style of Jean-Gaspard Deburau and his disciples, and more expressive of emotions. She was known for the flexibility of her face and her figure. The Irish critic and playwright George Bernard Shaw compared Mallet's 1897 performance to that of other Pierrot's, saying,\n\nHowever, although she was praised for her ability, she was not able to attract large enough audiences with pantomime alone, and also became known as a singer. Mallet often sang Aristide Bruant's songs. She and others who sang Bruant's songs tried to imitate his harsh singing style. Léon Xanrof dedicated his \"Le fiacre\" to Mallet, who made it one of her most popular songs in café concert performances. Mallet, Guilbert, Emma Liébel and Eugénie Buffet were pioneers of the chanson réaliste style in their popular shows.\n\nHer performances included:\n\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "33822293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33822293", "title": "Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies", "text": "Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies\n\nThe , or GSAPS, is an independent graduate school focusing on social sciences and international relations. GSAPS was established in April 1998 on the Waseda Campus of Waseda University in Tokyo, Japan. GSAPS students, faculty, and alumni come from more than 50 countries, making it the university's foremost hub for international graduate education and one of Japan's most culturally diverse graduate institutes.\n\nThe GSAPS Building (No.19) is located at Waseda University Main Campus, Shinjuku, Tokyo, Japan.\n\nGSAPS conducts regular teaching and research activities with the London School of Economics and Political Science, Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies, National University of Singapore, Seoul National University, and Chulalongkorn University, among other partner schools. Also, through the European Commission's Erasmus Mundus international mobility programme, GSAPS administers a joint doctoral program on Globalisation, the EU, and Multilateralism in partnership with Université Libre de Bruxelles in Belgium, University of Warwick in the United Kingdom, Libera Università Internazionale degli Studi Sociali in Italy, Université de Genève in Switzerland, and Fudan University in China.\n\nGSAPS is an affiliate member of the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs (APSIA), a network of leading international relations and public policy schools from around the world.\n\nGSAPS has recently spearheaded the Campus Asia program, which is aimed at establishing an EUI-type institution in Asia. This effort is currently underway in conjunction with Peking University, Korea University, Thammasat University, and Nanyang Technological University.\n\nGSAPS' core teaching and research areas are in East and Southeast Asian area studies, international relations, and international cooperation and policy studies. Research seminars and classes are organized around these three themes. The School operates on a quarterly calendar, with English and Japanese classes held from April to July (Spring), August (Summer), September to January (Fall), and February (Winter).\n\nAs of May 1, 2011, there are total 427 students including 283 of Master students and 144 of PHD students. 69.6% of MA students are from overseas, and only 30.4% are Japanese local students. The GSA, the school's official student organization, frequently organizes social, academic, and career-related events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1084219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084219", "title": "Gravimetry", "text": "Gravimetry\n\nGravimetry is the measurement of the strength of a gravitational field. Gravimetry may be used when either the magnitude of gravitational field or the properties of matter responsible for its creation are of interest.\n\nGravity is usually measured in units of acceleration. In the SI system of units, the standard unit of acceleration is 1 metre per second squared (abbreviated as m/s). Other units include the gal (sometimes known as a \"galileo\", in either case with symbol Gal), which equals 1 centimetre per second squared, and the \"g\" (\"g\"), equal to 9.80665 m/s. The value of the \"g\" approximately equals the acceleration due to gravity at the Earth's surface (although the value of \"g\" varies by location).\n\nAn instrument used to measure gravity is known as a gravimeter, or gravinometer. For a small body, general relativity predicts gravitational effects indistinguishable from the effects of acceleration by the equivalence principle. Thus, gravimeters can be regarded as special-purpose accelerometers. Many weighing scales may be regarded as simple gravimeters. In one common form, a spring is used to counteract the force of gravity pulling on an object. The change in length of the spring may be calibrated to the force required to balance the gravitational pull. The resulting measurement may be made in units of force (such as the newton), but is more commonly made in units of gals.\n\nResearchers use more sophisticated gravimeters when precise measurements are needed. When measuring the Earth's gravitational field, measurements are made to the precision of microgals to find density variations in the rocks making up the Earth. Several types of gravimeters exist for making these measurements, including some that are essentially refined versions of the spring scale described above. These measurements are used to define gravity anomalies.\n\nBesides precision, stability is also an important property of a gravimeter, as it allows the monitoring of gravity \"changes\". These changes can be the result of mass displacements inside the Earth, or of vertical movements of the Earth's crust on which measurements are being made: remember that gravity decreases 0.3 mGal for every metre of height. The study of gravity changes belongs to geodynamics.\n\nThe majority of modern gravimeters use specially-designed metal or quartz zero-length springs to support the test mass. Zero-length springs do not follow Hooke's Law, instead they have a force proportional to their length. The special property of these springs is that the natural resonant period of oscillation of the spring-mass system can be made very long - approaching a thousand seconds. This detunes the test mass from most local vibration and mechanical noise, increasing the sensitivity and utility of the gravimeter. Quartz and metal springs are chosen for different reasons; quartz springs are less affected by magnetic and electric fields while metal springs have a much lower drift (elongation) with time. The test mass is sealed in an air-tight container so that tiny changes of barometric pressure from blowing wind and other weather do not change the buoyancy of the test mass in air.\n\nSpring gravimeters are, in practice, relative instruments which measure the difference in gravity between different locations. A relative instrument also requires calibration by comparing instrument readings taken at locations with known complete or absolute values of gravity. Absolute gravimeters provide such measurements by determining the gravitational acceleration of a test mass in vacuum. A test mass is allowed to fall freely inside a vacuum chamber and its position is measured with a laser interferometer and timed with an atomic clock. The laser wavelength is known to ±0.025 ppb and the clock is stable to ±0.03 ppb as well. Great care must be taken to minimize the effects of perturbing forces such as\nresidual air resistance (even in vacuum), vibration, and magnetic forces. Such instruments are capable of an accuracy of about two parts per billion or 0.002 mGal and reference their measurement to atomic standards of length and time. Their primary use is for calibrating relative instruments, monitoring crustal deformation, and in geophysical studies requiring high accuracy and stability. However, absolute instruments are somewhat larger and significantly more expensive than relative spring gravimeters, and are thus relatively rare.\n\nGravimeters have been designed to mount in vehicles, including aircraft (note the field of aerogravity), ships and submarines. These special gravimeters isolate acceleration from the movement of the vehicle and subtract it from measurements. The acceleration of the vehicles is often hundreds or thousands of times stronger than the changes being measured.\n\nA gravimeter (the \"Lunar Surface Gravimeter\") deployed on the surface of the moon during the Apollo 17 mission did not work due to a design error. A second device (the \"Traverse Gravimeter Experiment\") functioned as anticipated.\n\nMicrogravimetry is a rising and important branch developed on the foundation of classical gravimetry. Microgravity investigations are carried out in order to solve various problems of engineering geology, mainly location of voids and their monitoring. Very detailed measurements of high accuracy can indicate voids of any origin, provided the size and depth are large enough to produce gravity effect stronger than is the level of confidence of relevant gravity signal.\n\nThe modern gravimeter was developed by Lucien LaCoste and Arnold Romberg in 1936.\n\nThey also invented most subsequent refinements, including the ship-mounted gravimeter, in 1965, temperature-resistant instruments for deep boreholes, and lightweight hand-carried instruments. Most of their designs remain in use (2005) with refinements in data collection and data processing.\n\n"}
{"id": "48971582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48971582", "title": "Gregory Benford bibliography", "text": "Gregory Benford bibliography\n\nA bibliography of works by American science fiction author Gregory Benford.\nMan-Kzin Wars (with Larry Niven)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1451224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1451224", "title": "Helmut Rix", "text": "Helmut Rix\n\nHelmut Rix (4 July 1926, in Amberg – 3 December 2004, in Freiburg im Breisgau) was a German linguist and professor of the Sprachwissenschaftliches Seminar of Albert-Ludwigs-Universität, Freiburg, Germany.\n\nHe is best known for his research into Indo-European and Etruscan languages, as well as the author of the hypothesis of Tyrrhenian languages.\n\nHelmut Rix was born in 1926 in Amberg to a family of teachers. Following high school and conscripted service in the Nazi navy during World War II, he studied Indo-European studies, classical philology, and history at Wurzburg in 1946 and Heidelberg from 1947. There he received his doctorate in 1950 with his dissertation \"Bausteine zu einer Hydronymie Alt-Italiens\". From 1951 he was assistant to Hans Krahe at Tübingen and from 1955 lecturer in Latin and Greek at the Lutheran Augustana Divinity School in Neuendettelsau. In 1959 he qualified as a full professor at Tübingen with the habilitation thesis, \"Das etruskische Cognomen\" (published in 1963 by Harrassowitz). In 1966, Rix took a position at the newly established University of Regensburg and in 1982 professorship at the University of Freiburg. He retired in 1993 and died in 2004 from a traffic accident.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24317171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24317171", "title": "Hominid (novel)", "text": "Hominid (novel)\n\nHominid is a short novel by Austrian writer Klaus Ebner. Taking place millions of years ago, it is a fictional story of a band of extinct hominids who inhabit Central Africa. Referencing the seven days of biblical Creation, the novel takes place in seven days. As the protagonist Pitar leads his band to civilization, tension arises between the clan leader Costello and his rival Re. Over the course of the story, Pitar invents tools, discovers the use of fire, and falls in love with Maluma. The seventh day marks a turning point in the storyline, as the members of the band separate from one another.\n\nThe characters' contemporary language and Pitar's thorough knowledge of modern-day history, philosophy and science add to the grotesque humor of the novel, while his two friends quote classical Roman literature and Chinese sayings. The book was published by Viennese publisher FZA Verlag in October 2008. Between 2008 and 2010, several Austrian and German critics and writers published reviews of the novel.\n\nEbner first considered writing a novel in which prehistoric characters have present-day knowledge and a modern language in 2006. Believing that this topic would not suffice for a long novel, he initially did not pursue the idea. In February 2008 Ebner won the Wiener Werkstattpreis in the categories of short story and essay—in addition to the prize money the organizer of the award, the Viennese publishing house FZA, offers to the winner to publish a 100-page book. Hence Ebner wrote and finalized his narrative within four months. The book was published in the October of the same year with the German title \"Hominide\". The publisher introduced the work to the public with a public reading in Vienna.\n\nThe novel consists of seven chapters, \"Day 1\" to \"Day 7\", with the action of each chapter occurring on consecutive days. The chapters refer to the seven days of the biblical Creation. In comparison with other works of Ebner, \"Hominid\" is the first to be about a prehistoric subject. The author had already addressed topics of religious faith before, in the short stories “Der Schreiber von Aram (The Scribe of Aram)” and “Momentaufnahme (Snapshot)”, and frequently used a satirical style for his narratives.\n\n\"Hominid\" takes place several million years ago in the Central African transitional region between rainforest and savanna. The main characters are \"Australopithecus afarenses\", an extinct, mostly tree-dwelling hominid that existed before the use of tools and fire. The story is told through first-person narration by the protagonist, Pitar. In deliberating his social and natural environment, Pitar decides to lead his band to civilization: “Hence I decided to shed some light on the darkness, to light a candle following the motto Let there be light and so on.” His linguistic capacity, thoughts and speech correspond to those of modern man, and he also is knowledgeable about history, politics, philosophy and literature. Intermittent comments made by Pitar concerning a particular prospect or artifact that has not been invented or developed yet add to the humor of the grotesque scenario. Pitar's close friends are Carpediem, who enunciates Latin phrases and quotes the writers of Classical Antiquity, and Lao, who frequently refers to Chinese philosophy.\nAlthough it is difficult to convince his fellow Hominidae to follow him, Pitar manages to persuade the patriarchal leader of the clan, Costello, who has taken command from the recently deceased Thorn. The band builds windbreaks to help them descend more often from the trees, thus exposing them to a higher risk of being attacked by predators on the ground. A rivalry emerges between Costello and another band member, Re, who not only questions the leading abilities of the present alpha but also desires Costello's females. To alleviate the escalating debate of authority, Pitar tries to implement a parliament to settle disputes peacefully. Costello, however, considers the parliament to be a forum in which he can consolidate his power, citing famous speeches by Winston Churchill and Abraham Lincoln; the other members ruin this noble idea with their lack of discipline and ostentatious indifference.\n\nOne of the subplots of the novel details the budding love between Pitar and Maluma, a female member of the band. Costello perceives the group of females as his personal harem, but when Maluma falls in love with Pitar she breaks off her relationship with him. On each day, the characters discover new insights and artefacts, but seek rest from their exhaustion by the seventh day. This repose, however, is disrupted by the attack of a saber-toothed cat. Several members of the band are killed, including Costello, thus enabling Re to assume power. Pitar and Maluma decide to leave the band, stating, \"We should leave in time, leave Re and his new Reich, which, when I'm taking into account Thorn's previous reign, would be the Third over here.\" Pitar and Maluma head toward the savanna, an action which alludes to both the expulsion from paradise and the Out of Africa theory. Only odd-numbered chapters narrate the love story, which bookmarks the novel. Writer Karin Gayer mentions in her review that the love story of Pitar and Maluma, and its positioning within the text, offers \"a second interpretation of the beginning and the end\".\n\nIn a conversation with the Viennese regional leader of publisher Arovell, Ebner revealed the hidden meanings of his characters' names.\n\n\nThe novel addresses hominization from an ironic point of view. Mankind's evolution from the ape-like Australopithecus afarenses to modern society with history, technology and cultural expression is compressed into only seven days. The strong allusion to faith is contrasted by numerous references to scientific insights. With the evolution of mankind starting in Central Africa, Lucy is the name given to the first skeleton of an \"Australopitecus afarensis\" found. The characters mention that \"Homo erectus\" would be the hominid species to tame fire. Orrorin and Toumaï represent two of the oldest-known hominin ancestors, while \"Aegyptopithecus zeuxis\" is one of the earliest primates. Through scientific references and a distinct ironic tone, Ingrid Reichel makes it clear in her review that the book cannot be taken in by any religion or fundamentalism.\n\nWhile scholars know of patriarchal and matrifocal ancient societies, very little can be said about a society of a species, which is as remote as \"Australopithecus\". On the basis of examples in today's chimpanzee and bonobo societies, Klaus Ebner introduced both patriarchal and matriarchal characters in the novel, Costello and Akshaya. Some of the female characters are very strong and self-conscious, such as Akshaya, who is so firm that even Costello retrocedes from her. While political power is controlled by the males, the social structure seems matrifocal and matrilineal, corresponding to the image of prehistoric societies exhibited by scholars.\n\nAnother theme is the love story between Pitar and Maluma. While the society of the band is depicted as driven by sexual attraction in a male hierarchy, the relationship between Pitar and Maluma leads them to break away from traditional habitudes. Pitar is not the alpha male, but he starts a love relationship on his own, in which Maluma quits Costello's harem. The love story demonstrates love as a quite late cultural achievement of mankind. In addition, Karin Gayer emphasizes the significance of Pitar's and Maluma's love against the religious component in defining the love story and its positioning within the storyline as another concept \"of the beginning and the end\".\n\n\"Hominid\" is a short novel which contains one single and linear storyline. However, it is subdivided into seven chapters, each standing for a narrated day. The satirical character of the book stems from the underlying grotesque scenario, the speeches of Pitar and his fellow hominids, the mentioning of artifacts which have not yet been invented, and the numerous allusions to world history and literature.\n\nSteffen Roye from the German literary magazine \"Verstärker\" states in the title of his book review that Ebner has the characters of his story \"talk as if they were modern-day juveniles\". When it comes to allusions, a number of them consist of quotes, usually from classical Latin writers.\n\nEbner's writing style is rich in detail, as Ingrid Reichel states, and she pinpoints the \"artist of the word\". Similar judgments have been made by other critics when they reviewed the preceding works by Ebner, such as Wolfgang Ratz about \"Auf der Kippe\" or Julia Rafael about \"Lose\".\n\nHeinz Gerstinger thinks the book is a \"history of the awakening of the spirit of mankind\". The author has the events glided \"into the playful by his gently irony\". Several reviewers underline the narrative's ironic and satirical aspect, including the names of the characters, Latin quotations and idioms as well as the parallelism between the seven days of Creation and scientific hominization. Ingrid Reichel points out the perfect publication date, just in time for the 150th anniversary of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution. Similarly to other reviewers who had written about Ebner's earlier books, she highlights the sophisticated use of a detail-rich language which is \"steeped in subtle and sensitive humor\".\n\nDespite many explicit allusions to several world religions, Ingrid Reichel states that the novel is a book for “readers with humor, for reasoners (…), for darwinists, on no account for creationists, to a lesser extent for people of faith, but rather for atheists, … and fundamentalists drop out entirely”. Another aspect is identified by Karin Gayer when pinpointing the parallel evolution of the patriarchal hierarchy in the narrated society and the alluded social matriarchy, the first resembling chimpanzee communities and the second representing those of bonobos. In addition, she points out the strength of the women characters. She declares that at the time of the \"Australopithecus\", neither chimpanzees nor bonobos existed, but \"the author is not interested in paleoanthropologic precisenesses—he is interested in mirroring our society, in exposing human behavior\". She compares Costello with the alpha of a community of chimpanzees and a classical manager, and Akshaya with bonobo females and a modern-day career woman. With regard to these underlying comparisons, Gayer says, \"On another level we are struck by the permanent notional commingling of the simian and the human, a composition which leaves us pensive and asks the legitimate question where we, who consider ourselves sapiens in a double sense, should finally classify man.\"\n\nThe multitudinous allusions to well-known and lesser-known books, movies and sayings cause contradicting receptions. While Heinz Gerstinger and Ingrid Reichel explicitly highlight the comical effect of the insinuations, the German critic Steffen Roye regards them as sometimes \"exaggerated\" and says, \"As the story develops, it becomes more and more like a revue.\" The numerous expressions in foreign languages, especially in Latin, remain untranslated in the first edition. In her review, Ingrid Reichel invites the publisher to add a glossary to a new edition. The author subsequently released such a glossary on his own website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1274932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274932", "title": "Interlinguistics", "text": "Interlinguistics\n\nInterlinguistics is the study of various aspects of linguistic communication. It is concerned with investigating how ethnic and auxiliary languages (lingua franca) work in such situations and with the possibilities of optimizing interlinguistic communication, for instance by use of international auxiliary languages, such as Esperanto or Interlingua. These are languages that are created by an intentional intellectual effort, usually with the aim of facilitating interlinguistic communication, but there are also interlanguages that have arisen spontaneously. These are called \"pidgin languages\". The term was first coined in French (Interlinguistique) by the Belgian Esperantist Jules Meysmans.\n\nThe main historical periods of Interlinguistics are : first, the pioneer era (1879 - 1911), when its basis was put forth; secondly, the foundational era (1911 - 1951), when the interlinguistics wars took place to decide the most appropriate form of an auxiliary language; thirdly, the school era (1951-1990), when independent Interlinguistics schools formed in different countries, mainly Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, and Poland, each with particular attention to Esperanto; lastly, the current era of language policy (1990 - today), during which interlinguistics is more tightly integrated with other disciplines, mainly linguistics and various social and political sciences, particularly via the topics of globalism, linguistic justice, management of multilingualism, and new forms of mobility.\n\nThe term \"Interlinguistics\" can be interpreted in at least two ways: \nAmong these interpretations, the first one is by far the most well established, while Mario Wandruszka had only the second one in mind.\n\nThe term appears first to have been used in French (\"interlinguistique\") by Jules Meysmans in 1911 in a text concerning international auxiliary languages. It became more widely accepted subsequent to an address by the Danish linguist Otto Jespersen to the 2nd International Congress of Linguists in 1931. According to Jespersen, interlinguistics is ”that branch of the science of language which deals with the structure and basic ideas of all languages with the view to the establishing of a norm for interlanguages, \"i.e.\" auxiliary languages destined for oral and written use between people who cannot make themselves understood by means of their mother tongues”. According to this definition, investigations that are useful for optimizing interlinguistic communication are central to the discipline, and the purpose may be to develop a new language intended for international use or for use within a multilingual country or union. \nResearch of this kind has been undertaken by the International Delegation, which developed Ido (1907), and by the International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA), which developed Interlingua (1951).\n\nValter Tauli considered interlinguistics as a subdiscipline of language planning. The principles recommended by him for language planning applied to the guided development of national languages are also, and more liberally so, applicable to constructed interlanguages. It is noteworthy that these principles have close counterparts among Grice’s conversational maxims. These maxims describe how effective communication in conversation is achieved, and in order to function well, a language must be such that it allows respecting these maxims, which languages not always do.\n\nMost publications in the field of interlinguistics are, however, not so constructive, but rather descriptive, comparative, historic, sociolinguistic, or concerned with translation by humans or machines. As for Esperanto, which is the most widely used constructed interlanguage, there is a relatively abundant literature about the language itself and its philology (see Esperantology).\n\nOnly a few of the many constructed languages have been applied practically to any noteworthy extent. The most prosperous were Volapük (1879, Johann Martin Schleyer), Esperanto (1887 Ludwik Lejzer Zamenhof), Latino sine flexione (1903, Giuseppe Peano), Ido (1907, Louis Couturat), Occidental-Interlingue (1922, Edgar de Wahl) and Interlingua (1951, IALA and Alexander Gode), with Esperanto being the only one still gathering a considerable community of active speakers today. Here, the Bliss symbols (1949, Charles K. Bliss) deserve also to be mentioned. These were intended for international communication, but have found their field of application elsewhere, namely as an aid for persons who lack an adequate ability of using ordinary language, because of motorical or cognitive handicaps.\n\nThe following table lists only \"one\" representative for each type explicitly. \nAmong constructed languages, it is usual to distinguish between \"a priori languages\" and \"a posteri languages\". The latter are based on one or, more often, several source languages, while this is not evident for a priori languages, e.g., the philosophical languages of the 17th century, Solresol and the logical languages of the 20th century, such as Loglan and Lojban. Spontaneously arisen Interlanguages are necessarily a posteriori or iconic (using imaging or imitating signs).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "887386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=887386", "title": "Jobs created during U.S. presidential terms", "text": "Jobs created during U.S. presidential terms\n\nPoliticians and pundits frequently refer to the ability of the President of the United States to \"create jobs\" in the U.S. during his term in office.\nThe numbers are most often seen during the election season or in regard to a President's economic legacy. The numbers typically used and most frequently cited by economists are total nonfarm payroll employment numbers as collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics on a monthly and annual basis. The BLS also provides numbers for private-sector non-farm employment and other subsets of the aggregate that are more useful for making points.\n\nThe job numbers are estimates generated via a survey of thousands of businesses. The sample establishments are drawn from private nonfarm businesses such as factories, offices, and stores, as well as federal, state, and local government entities. Employees on nonfarm payrolls are those who received pay for any part of the reference pay period (which includes the 12th of the month), including persons on paid leave. \n\nAs of 2005, the sample includes about 160,000 businesses and government agencies covering approximately 400,000 individual worksites. These monthly job counts are revised (sometimes by 20% or more) within 90 days to reflect additional data, seasonal adjustment models, and annual adjustments resulting from unemployment insurance filings.\n\nThe numbers generated by the BLS are actually \"total employment,\" and the \"new jobs\" numbers cited are simply \"the change in total employment.\" Thus, they reflect \"net new jobs\" and do not attempt to estimate the absolute number of new jobs. In a measurement period, if productivity improvement eliminated the need for 100,000 jobs and business activity caused the need for 100,000 new positions, the BLS numbers would reflect 0 \"new jobs.\" The real unemployment rate is measured by the U-6 figure.\n\nThe exact usefulness of these numbers is debated. On the one hand, they include only nonfarm payroll employment, which excludes certain types of jobs, notably the self-employed. However, as a semi-balancing factor, they count one person with two jobs as two employed persons. \n\nAdditionally, for at least the first eight months of a President's term, he inherits a budget proposed and implemented by his predecessor (as well as an overall economy which may be in decline or recovery). The data in columns shown for September (in \"italic\") correlate better with the federal fiscal year starting each October, showing the impact of a given president and resulting federal budget on the job count.\n\nMoreover, according to the United States Constitution, the United States Congress is responsible for government spending and thus, regardless of Presidential advocacy, bears constitutional responsibility for such things as spending and tax policy that have enormous effects upon the economy. Furthermore, it is debatable how much effect any President realistically could have on a system as large, diverse, and complex as the U.S. economy. Nevertheless, the nonfarm payrolls number is the one most frequently used in the media and by economists, largely because the alternative (household survey numbers) is thought to drastically overestimate employment.\n\nAnother factor to consider is population growth, which provides opportunities for the creation of jobs, rendering these figures less impressive, or in the case of the already subpar, clearly insufficient.\n\nThe Heritage Foundation has pointed to Alan Greenspan's general economic optimism (in 2004) as support for household survey numbers over payroll numbers. However, the subsequent downturn, and Greenspan's admission of having been wrong, may have discredited that view.\n\nNumbers listed from 1941 and onward are BLS data of nonfarm jobs (in thousands), and are shown from the year beginning and ending each presidential term. The monthly statistics are quoted from January, as U.S. presidents take office at the end of that month.\n<nowiki>**</nowiki>Approximate\n\nFor information on the United States public debt divided by Gross Domestic Product by Presidential term, see National Debt by U.S. presidential terms\n\nThe Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) database contains the total nonfarm employment level. A graph with a simple download of data on jobs by month since the late 1930s is available here:\n\nThe Calculated Risk blog also reported the number of jobs created by Presidential term. Over 10 million jobs were created in each of President Bill Clinton's two terms during the 1990s, by far the largest number.\n\nhttp://www.statisticbrain.com/jobs-created-during-each-presidency-term/\n"}
{"id": "1474234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1474234", "title": "John K. Fairbank", "text": "John K. Fairbank\n\nJohn King Fairbank (May 24, 1907 – September 14, 1991), was a prominent American historian of China. Considered the doyen of post-war China studies, the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies at Harvard University is named after him. Among his most widely read books are \"The United States and China\", which was first published in 1948 and went through revisions in 1958, 1979, and 1983, and his co-edited series, \"The Cambridge History of China\".\n\nFairbank was born in Huron, South Dakota, in 1907. He was educated at Sioux Falls High School, Phillips Exeter Academy, the University of Wisconsin–Madison, Harvard College, and Oxford University (Balliol). As an undergraduate, he was advised by Charles Kingsley Webster, the distinguished British diplomatic historian who was then teaching at Harvard, to choose a relatively-undeveloped field of study. Webster suggested that since the Qing dynasty's archives were then being opened, China's foreign relations would be a prudent choice. Fairbank later admitted that he then knew nothing about China itself.\n\nIn 1929, when he graduated from Harvard \"summa cum laude\", he went to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar.\n\nAt Oxford, Fairbank began his study of the Chinese language and sought the counsel of H.B. Morse, retired from the Imperial Maritime Customs Service. On Webster's advice, he had read Morse's three-volume study of the Qing dynasty's foreign relations on the ship that was coming to England. Morse became his mentor. The ambitious young scholar decided to go to Beijing to do research in 1932.\n\nIn Beijing, he studied at Tsinghua University under the direction of the prominent historian Tsiang Tingfu, who introduced him to the study of newly-available diplomatic sources and the perspectives of Chinese scholarship, which balanced the British approaches he saw at Oxford.\n\nWilma Denio Cannon, a daughter of Walter Bradford Cannon and sister of Marian Cannon Schlesinger, came to China to marry Fairbank and began a career of her own in Chinese art history. He and Wilma came to know to a number of Chinese intellectuals, and they became especially warm friends with Liang Sicheng, the son of the distinguished Chinese reformer Liang Qichao, and his wife, Lin Huiyin, whom they called Phyllis.\n\nThe Lins introduced them to Jin Yuelin, a philosopher trained at Columbia University. Fairbank wrote later that he and Wilma began to sense through them that the Chinese problem was the \"necessity to winnow the past and discriminate among things foreign, what to preserve and what to borrow...\"\n\nIn 1936, Oxford awarded him a D.Phil. for his thesis, which he revised and eventually published as \"Trade and Diplomacy on the China Coast: The Opening of the Treaty Ports, 1842-1854\" in 1953.\n\nFairbank returned to Harvard in 1936 to take up a position teaching Chinese history and was its first full-time specialist at Harvard. He and Edwin O. Reischauer worked out a year-long introductory survey covering China and Japan and later Korea and Southeast Asia. The course was known as \"Rice Paddies,\" and it became the basis for two influential texts: \"East Asia: The Great Tradition\" (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1960) and \"East Asia: The Modern Transformation\" (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1965).\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the Pacific War in 1941, Fairbank was enlisted to work for the US government, which included service in the Office of Strategic Services and the Office of War Information in Chongqing, the temporary capital of Nationalist China.\n\nWhen he returned to Harvard after the war, Fairbank inaugurated a master's degree program in area studies, one of several major universities in the United States to do so. That approach at Harvard was multi-disciplinary and aimed to train journalists, government officials, and others who did not want careers in academia. That broad approach, combined with Fairbank's experience in China during the war, shaped his \"United States and China\" (Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, Foreign Policy Library, 1948). That survey went through new editions in 1958 and 1970, each synthesizing scholarship in the field for both students and the general public. In 1972, in preparation for Nixon's visit, the book was read by leaders on both sides.\n\nIn the late 1940s, Fairbank was among the so-called China Hands, who predicted the victory of Mao Zedong and the Chinese Communist Party and advocated establishing relations with the new government. Although Fairbank argued that relations with new China would be in the American national interest, the China Lobby and many other Americans accused the China Hands of selling out an ally and promoting the spread of communism and of Soviet influence; that was during an intensification of the Cold War. In 1949, Fairbank was targeted for being \"soft\" on Communism, and he was denied a visa to visit Japan. In 1952, he testified before the McCarran Committee, but his secure position at Harvard protected him. Ironically, many of Fairbank's Chinese friends and colleagues who returned to China after 1949, such as Fei Xiaotong, Ch'ien Tuan-sheng, and Chen Han-seng, would later be attacked for being \"pro-American,\" as the Chinese Communist Party became more rigidly communist. Critics in Taiwan charged that he was a tool of the Communists.\n\nFairbank taught at Harvard until he retired in 1977. He published a number of both academic and non-academic works on China, many of which would reach a wide audience outside academia. He also published an expanded revision of his doctoral dissertation as \"Trade and Diplomacy on the China Coast\" in 1953. One of his students, Paul Cohen, noted that the approaches or stages in the development of China studies of the 1950s are sometimes referred to as \"the Harvard 'school' of China studies.\"\n\nFairbank played a major role in developing Harvard as a leading American center for East Asian studies, including establishing the Center for East Asian Research, which was renamed to the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies after his retirement. He was its director from 1955 to 1973.\n\nFairbank raised money to support fellowships for graduate students, trained influential China historians at Harvard, and placed them widely in universities and colleges in the US and overseas. He welcomed and funded researchers from all over the world to spend time in Cambridge and hosted a series of conferences, which brought scholars together and yielded publications, many of which Fairbank edited himself. He established the Harvard East Asian Series, which published monographs to enable students to publish dissertations, which was essential for achieving tenure. Fairbank and his colleagues at Harvard, Edwin O. Reischauer and Albert Craig, wrote a textbook on China and Japan, \"A History of East Asian Civilization\". Fairbank established links to figures in government both by training journalists, government officials, and foundation executives and by giving his thoughts to the government on policy on China.\n\nIn 1966, Fairbank and the Sinologist Denis C. Twitchett, then at Cambridge University, set in motion plans for \"The Cambridge History of China\". Originally intended to cover the entire history of China in six volumes, the project grew until it reached a projected 15 volumes. Twitchett and Fairbank divided the history, with Fairbank editing volumes on modern (post-1800) China, and Twitchett and others took responsibility for the period from the Qin to the early Qing dynasties. Fairbank edited and wrote parts of Volumes 10 to 15, the last of which appeared in the year after his death. Martha Henderson Coolidge and Richard Smith completed and published Fairbank's biography of H.B. Morse.\n\nAmong his students were Albert Feuerwerker,\nMerle Goldman,\nJoseph Levenson,\nImmanuel C.Y. Hsu,\nAkira Iriye,\nPhilip A. Kuhn,\nKwang-ching Liu,\nRoderick MacFarquhar,\nRhoads Murphey,\nDavid S. Nivison,\nAndrew Nathan, \nDavid Tod Roy,\nBenjamin I. Schwartz,\nFranz Schurman,\nTeng Ssu-yu,\nJames C. Thomson, Jr.,\nTheodore White,\nJohn E. Wills, Jr.,\nAlexander Woodside,\nMary C. Wright.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War in the late 1960s, Fairbank, who had earlier been criticized as being pro-communist, came under fire from younger scholars and graduate students in the new Committee of Concerned Asian Scholars, which he had helped form but then soon ended his participation.\n\nThe younger scholars charged that Fairbank and other leaders of the area studies movement had helped to justify American imperialism in Asia. By his grounding the study of Asia in modernization theory, Fairbank and other liberal scholars presented China as an irrational country, which needed American tutelage. Since Fairbank rejected revolution, he condoned imperialism. A further charge was that scholars of the Harvard School had put forth a \"radical new version\" of China's modern history that argued imperialism \"was largely beneficial in China.\" \n\nIn December 1969, Howard Zinn and other members of the Radical Historians' Caucus attempted to persuade the American Historical Association to pass an anti-Vietnam War resolution. A later report said a \"debacle unfolded as Harvard historian (and AHA president in 1968) John Fairbank literally wrestled the microphone from Zinn's hands\", in what Fairbank called \"our briefly-famous Struggle for the Mike.\"\n\nFairbank finished the manuscript of his final book, \"China: A New History\" in the summer of 1991. On September 14, 1991 he delivered the manuscript to Harvard University Press, then returned home and suffered a fatal heart attack. He was survived by his wife, Wilma, and their two daughters, Laura Fairbank Haynes and Holly Fairbank Tuck.\n\nIn a statistical overview derived from writings by and about John King Fairbank, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses roughly 600+ works in 1,500+ publications in 15 languages and 43,000+ library holdings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1693030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1693030", "title": "Julia Chang", "text": "Julia Chang\n\nJulia Chang is a young American woman with brown hair that she usually ties into braids. She made her debut in \"Tekken 3\" at the age of 18, measuring 165 cm and 54 kg. Julia uses various Chinese martial arts, with many techniques similar to those of her mother. Like her mother, Julia usually dons a Native American-stylized outfit, with a crop top, a short denim skirt, cowboy boots, and a small Native American feathered headdress (this headdress is absent in \"Tekken 4\"). As Julia becomes a member of a reforestation group starting in \"Tekken 4\", she gains a researcher outfit, wearing glasses also.\n\nIn \"Tekken 3\", Julia is quite similar to Michelle, but needs more skill and perseverance from the player to achieve best results. According to \"CVG\", \"as well as lots of surprisingly powerful wrestling-style throws, Julia also has some fast kick combos.\" \"CVG\" guide to \"Tekken 3\" states she \"relies on quick stabbing attacks and floating combos to gradually wear down her opponent\" and the aspect that makes her particularly \"annoying to fight against is that she has lots of variations of the same attacks, and it takes some practice before [one] can anticipate her next move,\" as Julia players can mix these combos up to \"really confuse\" their opponents. In \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", Julia is a \"raw fury\" whose her speed and her many combos might allow her to defeat any opponent. Julia lacks punching power, but she is able to perform quick combos and has many moves to perform juggle combos. She must be played aggressively but cautious and unpredictable, as she is very sensitive to counter-attacks, and as such it might take a lot of work to learn to play her right. Similarly, because of her \"relatively small move list and her need to juggle to inflict real damage\", Julia requires \"the right amount of patience\" in order to master her in \"Tekken 4\". In \"Tekken 6\", IGN considered her to have particularly many powerful mid-level attacks and to be one of the swiftest characters.\n\nAs a baby, Julia was abandoned in Native American lands and was found by Michelle Chang, who brought her up with love and taught her martial arts so she too could protect her homeland. Even though she is only an adopted daughter of Michelle, they share very similar appearance to the extent that she becomes the target of Ganryu's affections primarily because of her resemblance to Michelle.\n\nJulia studied archaeology in Michelle's tribal lands. When she turned eighteen, stories of sudden disappearances of martial artists around the world reached the tribe. The tribe knew that they were caused by the God of Fighting and feared that Michelle's pendant was the cause. Michelle went to Japan to ask Heihachi Mishima for having pursued the pendant years before, but she did not return. Julia suspected Heihachi and entered the King of Iron Fist Tournament 3 to seek the truth.\n\nFearing that the rapidly growing global ecosystem would threaten her homeland, Julia joined a genetic research group headed by Professor T that studied the biological mechanism of reforestation. The group worked closely with G Corporation, whose high-tech computers were being used to store the data of the research. However, the research came to an abrupt halt when Mishima Zaibatsu broke to G Corporation and stole all of their data. Knowing that she needed the data to save her home, Julia entered the King of Iron Fist Tournament 4 to take back the forest rejuvenation data. She failed to obtain it and tried to resume her research, but was always reminded that without the data, her research was futile. One day, Julia received a letter in a foreign language that announced the King of Iron Fist Tournament 5. She signed in, hoping to once again retrieve the data. \n\nAfter finally retrieving her stolen data, Julia completed her research and went back to Arizona to meet with the group that would help her realize her plan. She also met with an old woman who claimed that she could hear the spirits. She helped Julia with the rejuvenation program, but just before the latter left, she gave an ominous warning that Jin Kazama and Kazuya Mishima were not allowed to clash, since doing so would resurrect a great evil that would end the world. To prevent this from happening, Julia decided to enter the King of Iron Fist Tournament 6.\n\nJulia appears as a playable character in the non-canonical games \"Tekken Tag Tournament\" and \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", as well as in \"Tekken Card Challenge\", and makes a cameo appearance in the spin-off game \"Death by Degrees\". Julia also appears as a playable character in the crossover game \"Street Fighter X Tekken\", where her official partner is Bob, and where Chun-Li gave her classic outfit after they have become friends through studying Chinese kempo together.\n\nJulia's dossier is briefly seen in a cameo in the CGI film \"\" when Anna Williams opens a file containing dossiers on various persons of interest. Julia also appears in the manga \"Tekken: Tatakai no Kanatani\" and in the comic book \"Tekken Forever\". A resin garage kit figure of Julia from \"Tekken 4\" was released by Heihachi Zazen in 2003, and a prepainted 1/7 scale PVC figure of Julia as Jaycee from \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", designed by the graphic artist Yamashita Shunya, was released by Kotobukiya in 2013.\n\nIn \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", Julia Chang appears under the alias Jaycee or J.C., who is a luchadora. She is seen in the opening trailer as a wrestler and tag partner of Armor King, wearing a lucha mask to take the place of a friend of hers who was injured in a car accident. In Michelle's \"TTT2\" ending cutscene, she dons a lucha libre mask to team-up with Jaycee against King and Armor King. Jaycee has been also playable in place of Julia in the free-to-play game \"Tekken Revolution\" as part of an update.\n\nThe \"Tekken\" series' producer Katsuhiro Harada confirmed that \"Jaycee\" is actually a pun on the name Julia Chang (removing her mask in the games customization feature changes her name back to Julia in-game). In \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", Julia gains some luchador moves, while still keeping most of the moves she had in \"Tekken 6\". Some of the attacks removed from Julia's move list in the game are given to Michelle.\n\nPolish edition of \"GameStar\" had Julia Chang voted at 11th place in the 2006 poll for the title of \"Miss of the Video Game World\". In 2009, GameDaily listed her among \"chicks that will kick your ass\" along with three other \"Tekken 5\" characters, featured her among the \"Babes of Tekken\", stating that \"if all environmentalists looked like Julia Chang, we would have gone green ages ago\" and \"all we know is that we still think her shorts aren't short enough,\" also listing her among the \"All-American Girls\". In 2011, UGO Networks featured Julia as one of the fighting games' \"finest female fighters\", adding that she is their favorite Native American fighting game character. In 2012, Entertainment Focus ranked Julia as the eighth best video game heroine, stating that \"her hippy style and toned midriff – combined with lethal moves and passion for the planet make her one uniquely attractive package.\" She was ranked as the 29th best looking game girl by GameHall's Portal PlayGame in 2014. \"PlayStation Official Magazine\" listed her Cross Assault team-up with Nina Williams in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" as one of the best in the game.\n\nJulia has been one of the most popular characters among the professional players of \"Tekken 4\". In 2013, \"Complex\" ranked Julia as the 18th best \"Tekken\" character, commenting that \"armed with one of the most punishing command throws on the roster, she'll be breaking nerds' hearts for years to come.\" In an official poll by Namco, Julia was the 22nd most requested \"Tekken\" character to be added to the roster of \"Tekken X Street Fighter\", racking up 6.35% of votes; additional 4.21% votes were also cast on Jaycee, counted separately. Julia's absence from \"Tekken 7\" was met with a widespread disappointment; she was the second most missing character in the game according to a poll by fighting game community EventHubs.\n\nThere has been some negative criticism. Upon Julia Chang's debut in \"Tekken 3\", \"Next Generation\" commented that she and fellow \"Tekken 3\" character Ling Xiaoyu \"conform to different and equally depressing 'cute schoolgirl' stereotypes\". In 2011, \"Dorkly\" listed her as one of the most stereotypical Native American characters in fighting game history, ranking her at seventh place, tying with Michelle Chang, even as Beth Aileen Dillon of AbTeC (Aboriginal Territories in Cyberspace) called Julia \"an interesting case\" and appreciated \"that she is educated and kicks ass.\" Jeff Marchiafava of \"Game Informer\" included Jaycee among the \"most ridiculous\" characters of \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18093615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18093615", "title": "Kabayan Mummies", "text": "Kabayan Mummies\n\nThe Fire Mummies of the Philippines, also known as the Kabayan Mummies, Benguet Mummies, or Ibaloi Mummies, are a group of mummies found along the mountain slopes of Kabayan, a town in the northern part of the Philippines. They were made from as early as 2000 BC until the 16th century, when Spain colonized the Philippines. Today, they remain in natural caves and a museum in Kabayan.\n\nScientists believe that the Fire Mummies were created by the Ibaloi between 1200 and 1500 AD in five towns in Benguet and buried in caves. Others believe that the process of mummification began at 2000 BC. What makes the Fire Mummies unique is their process of mummification. That mummification began shortly before a person died, where he would digest a very salty drink. After his death, his corpse was washed and set over a fire in a seated position, thus drying the fluids. Smoke from tobacco was blown into the mouth to dry the body's inside and internal organs. Eventually, herbs were rubbed into the body. Mummified bodies are then placed in a coffin made of pinewood and laid to rest in rock shelters, natural caves or man made burial niches. The practice of that mummification ended, since Spaniards colonized the Philippines in the 16th century.\n\nWhen the Fire Mummies were 'discovered' in the early 20th century by Westerners (the mummies have been known to local communities for hundreds of years), many of them were stolen, because the caves were mostly unprotected. Because of this, Monument Watch, a nonprofit organization, declared the site as one of the 100 most endangered sites in the world.\n\nAfter logging operations intensified in the area, the location of many caves became known. Unfortunately this has led to looting, as unconscientious visitors have been eager to leave their mark, including graffiti, on the Kabayan mummies. The Kabayan Mummies were listed in the 1998 World Monuments Watch by the World Monuments Fund. Funding through American Express was used for emergency conservation and the creation of a comprehensive management plan. Additionally, local authorities from surrounding municipalities collaborated in cultural awareness campaign to introduce the Mummies to Filipinos. Tourist facilities were also constructed in order to control visitation and prevent harmful intrusions.\n\nThe Fire Mummies remain in natural caves with relatively small security and have been designated as one of the 100 world's most endangered heritage sites. Officials know 50-80 other mummies, but they will not give their locations because of their fear of vandalism. A small museum in Kabayan, Benguet also displays a few mummies.\n\nThe Kabayan Mummy Burial Caves are listed as National Cultural Treasures by the National Museum of the Philippines pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 374. It is also under consideration as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Scholars are also pushing for the inclusion of the mummy burial caves in neighboring Buguias town in the \"Kabayan Mummy Burial Caves\" nomination of the Philippines in the UNESCO Tentative List. The caves in Buguias is home to one of Benguet's folk hero, Apo Anno. The burial caves in Kabayan and Buguias will collectively be called as the Benguet Mummy Burial Caves or Mummy Burial Caves in Kabayan and Buguias.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7079051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7079051", "title": "La Corona", "text": "La Corona\n\nLa Corona is the name given by archaeologists to an ancient Maya court residence in Guatemala's Petén department that was discovered in 1996, and later identified as the long-sought \"Site Q\", the source of a long series of unprovenanced limestone reliefs of exceptional artistic quality. The site's Classical name appears to have been Sak-Nikte' ('White-Flower').\nDuring the 1960s looted Maya reliefs referring to a then-unknown city surfaced on the international art market. One of these reliefs, showing a ball player, is now in the Chicago Art Institute; another is in the Dallas Museum of Art. Peter Mathews, then a Yale graduate student, dubbed the city \"Site Q\" (short for \"¿Qué?\" [Spanish for \"what?\"]). Some researchers believed that the inscriptions referred to Calakmul, but the artistic style of the artifacts was different from anything that had been found there. \n\nSantiago Billy and Carlos Catalan, environmentalists studying scarlet macaws, came upon the remote ruins in 1996, and Ian Graham and David Stuart from Harvard University's Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology investigated the site the following year, naming the new site La Corona. Among the broken sculptures left by looters, Stuart found textual references to a place name and to historical figures that were featured on Site Q artifacts, leading him to believe that La Corona was Site Q. \n\nIn 2005 Marcello A. Canuto, then a Yale professor, found a panel in situ at La Corona that mentioned two Site Q rulers. The panel had been quarried from the same rock as the Site Q artifacts, providing convincing evidence that La Corona was indeed Site Q. \n\nSince 2008, the site has been investigated by the La Corona Archaeological Project (PRALC) co-directed by Marcello A. Canuto (Director, Middle American Research Institute at Tulane University) and Tomás Barrientos (Director, Dept. of Archaeology, Universidad del Valle de Guatemala). \n\nIn April 2012, PRALC discovered a row of 12 staircase risers with many different relief scenes; another 10 sculpted risers were found looted from their original context but then discarded for being too eroded to be worth selling on the illicit antiquities market. \n\nThe texts of these newly discovered panels contain important historical information about political events in the Classic period; one of the panels (Hieroglyphic Staircase 2, Block 5) contains a reference to 4 Ahau 3 K'ank'in, the notorious 13th baktun-ending.\n\nResearch focuses on the relationship between the powerful kingdom of Calakmul and La Corona. \n\nA famous sculpted panel (now in the Dallas Museum of Art) depicts two large palanquins each carrying a royal woman from Calakmul, one standing in a temple pavilion, the other overshadowed by a supernatural protector; the text, however, refers to three women who came from Calakmul's ruling dynasty to marry the kings of La Corona. \n\nIn AD 721, a daughter of the Calakmul king (Yuknoom Took' K'awiil) was married off to a king of La Corona. Four decades earlier, in 679 AD, a daughter of Calakmul's powerful Yuknoom Ch'een had already been given in marriage to a La Corona king. Another, newly discovered relief mentions a visit in between these two dates, in 696, by another Calakmul king (Yuknoom Yich'aak K'ahk'), following Calakmul's defeat by Tikal.\n\nMarcello Canuto leads tours to La Corona for Far Horizons Archaeological and Cultural trips\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55353315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55353315", "title": "List of best-selling comics", "text": "List of best-selling comics\n\nList of best selling comics can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "955626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=955626", "title": "List of historical separatist movements", "text": "List of historical separatist movements\n\nThis is a list of historical separatist movements around the world. Separatism includes autonomism and secessionism. Most separatist movements do not succeed in their goal, therefore only notable ones are listed here; however, not all listed here succeeded in their goal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSri Lankan Tamil people\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(gained independence from Ottoman Empire after the Greek War of Independence) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32034339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32034339", "title": "Little Peter's Journey to the Moon", "text": "Little Peter's Journey to the Moon\n\nLittle Peter's Journey to the Moon (German Peterchens Mondfahrt) is a fairy tale written by German author and playwright Gerdt von Bassewitz. It was first performed as a play in Leipzig in 1912 and appeared in 1915 as a storybook for children with illustrations by Hans Baluschek. A 2007 English translation names the book Peter and Anneli's Journey to the Moon.\n\nIt is the story of Little Peter and his sister Anneli, who help a May beetle named Mr. Zoomzeman (German: \"Herr Summsemann\") to retrieve his missing sixth leg from the moon. After a fantastic and dangerous overnight adventure they recover the leg and are returned to their beds at home.\n\nA thief, stealing wood in the forest, had cut off Mr. Zoomzeman’s great-great grandfather's sixth leg many years before. The Night Fairy banished the thief to the moon as punishment, but he took the leg with him, causing later generations of the Zoomzeman family to only have five legs.\n\nThe current Mr. Zoomzeman can break the curse and recover his missing leg if he finds two children who are pure of heart and have never been cruel to animals. He enters the house of Little Peter and his younger sister Anneli (\"Anneliese\") and tells them the story. They promise to help him retrieve the lost leg. Mr. Zoomzeman teaches them a magical chant that allows them to fly and they set off for the moon.\n\nOn the moon they meet the Sandman, who looks after the star children, each corresponding to a child on Earth. As their own stars are untarnished and shine brightly it proves Peter and Anneli are pure of heart. The Sandman is impressed and offers to take the three heroes to the Night Fairy's tea party at her castle.\n\nThey travel in Sandman's celestial chariot, along the milky way, where the children learn about cosmic phenomena.\n\nMeanwhile, the Night Fairy has invited lots of celestial guests to her midnight party. These include the thunder man (\"Donnermann\"), the wind bride (\"Windliesel\"), the cloud woman (\"Wolkenfrau\"), the lightning witch (\"Blitzhexe\"), Rainy Fritz (\"Regenfritz\"), the gale giant (\"Sturmriese\"), Hail Hans (\"Hagelhans\"), Mother Hulda (\"Frau Holle\"), Ice Max (\"Eismax\"), the vodyanoy (\"Wassermann\"), Mary-of-the-dew (\"Taumariechen\"), morning glory (\"Morgenröte\"), the afterglow (\"Abendröte\"), the morning star (\"Morgenstern\") and the evening star (\"Abendstern\"). The Guardian of the Milky Way appears and complains about the chaos caused by the guests travelling to the meeting. The guests apologize and offer the guardian gifts.\n\nSandman and the adventurers arrive, surprising the guests as he is never usually late and by bringing humans. Mr. Zoomzeman's sad story prompts the celestial spirits to offer help. The Night Fairy asks the Guardian of the Milky Way to summon the Great Bear. Peter, Anneli and Mr. Zoomzeman are carried by the bear to the moon cannon, via a meadow where gifts and sweets are grown for Christmas and past the nest where a hen lays colourful Easter eggs. The cannon fires the adventurers up onto a hill where the lost sixth leg is nailed to a sacred birch tree.\n\nAt the tree the heroes are confronted by the Man in the Moon, a cruel, violent cannibal. In the fight to prevent the children from being eaten the celestial spirits attack the Man in the Moon and Peter battles with his wooden toy sword. Anneli summons her and Peter's stars, who blind the Man in the Moon. The evil giant cannot see and gets lost in the deep moon woods.\n\nLittle Peter retrieves the sixth leg and Anneli attaches it to the unconscious beetle. Mr. Zoomzeman wakes and is delighted, but they must return to earth immediately to avoid being stuck on the moon forever. He uses an old charm which creates a hole. The children jump into the hole and fall back into their bedroom on Earth.\n\nDawn breaks and the children open the window to let Mr. Zoomzeman fly away. Their mother enters the bedroom bringing a gift of gingerbread from Father Christmas.\nIn 2010 a biography of Otto Klemperer by Eva Weissweiler published in Germany stated that Peter and Anneli were based on the children of Oskar Kohnstamm, in whose sanatorium von Bassewitz had been a patient. Peter Kohnstamm (1908–1995) was the father of Angus Konstam.\n\nIt was adapted as a German animated film Peter in Magicland (German language title: Peterchens Mondfahrt) in 1990.\n"}
{"id": "4493932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4493932", "title": "Logical form (linguistics)", "text": "Logical form (linguistics)\n\nIn some theories of syntax and grammar, in particular in the Chomskyan schools of government and binding theory and the minimalist program, the Logical Form (abbreviated LF and conventionally spelled with capital initial letters) of a linguistic expression is a mental representation of it, derived solely from surface structure. In the words of Noam Chomsky, LF captures \"those aspects of semantic representation that are strictly determined by grammar, abstracted from other cognitive systems\". It functions as the interface between grammar and conceptual-intentional properties of language, analogous to how the phonetic form (abbreviated PF) is the interface between grammar and the audio-perceptual properties of utterances.\n\nLogical Form is the level of representation that affects the semantic interpretation of a sentence. LF is sometimes referred to as a covert level of representation, because the output of this level is not actually pronounced by the speaker.\n\nMany theories of syntax do not acknowledge the concept of Logical Form (e.g. Lexical Functional Grammar, Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar, Dependency Grammars, Tree-Adjoining Grammar, etc.), at least not in the way it is understood in Government and Binding Theory and the Minimalist Program. The postulation of such a level of representation remains a subject of debate.\n\nThe notion of Logical Form was originally invented for the purpose of determining quantifier scope. As the theory around the Minimalist program developed, all output conditions, such as theta-criterion, the case filter, Subjacency and binding theory, are examined at the level of LF. The study of LF is more broad than the study of syntax.\n\nThe definition of scope was introduced early in the development of Logical Form scholarship. The scope of an operator is the domain within which it has the ability to affect the interpretation of other expressions. In other words, an operator has scope of operation, or affecting the interpretation of other phrases, only within its own domain. Three uncontroversial examples of scope affecting some aspect of the interpretation are: quantifier-quantifier, quantifier-pronoun, quantifier-negative polarity item.\n\nIn instances where a negation has an indefinite article in its scope, the reader's interpretation is affected. The reader is not able to infer the existence of a relevant entity. If negation (or a negation phrase) is within the subject quantifier scope, negation is not affected by the quantifier.\nIf the Quantified Expresstion1 (QE1) is in the domain of QE2, but not vice versa, QE1 must take a narrow scope; if both are in the domain of the other, the structure is potentially ambiguous. If neither QE is in the domain of the other, they must be interpreted independently. These assumptions explain the cases where the direct object of the main clause is not within the domain of the embedded subject. For example, \"that every boy left upset a teacher\", it cannot be interpreted as \"for every boy, there is a possibly different teacher who was upset by the fact that the boy left\". The only available interpretation is that \"one single teacher was upset\".\n\nIn syntax, LF exists to give a structural account of certain kinds of semantic ambiguities.\n\nThis sentence is semantically ambiguous. Specifically, it contains a scope ambiguity. This ambiguity cannot be resolved at surface structure, since \"someone\", being within the verb phrase, must be lower in the structure than \"everyone\". This case exemplifies the general fact that natural language is \"insufficiently specified\" for strict logical meaning. Robert May argued for the postulation of LF partly in order to account for such ambiguities (among other motivations). At LF, the sentence above would have two possible structural representations, one for each possible scope-reading, in order to account for the ambiguity by structural differentiation. In this way it is similar in purpose to, but not the same as, logical form in logic.\n\nThere has been discussion about quantification since the 1970s. In 1974, Montague argued that a grammar for a small fragment of English contains the logicosyntactic and semantic devices to handle practically any scope phenomenon. The tool that he mainly relied on is categorical syntax with functional application; in terms of recent formulations, it can be considered Minimalist syntax with Merge only. However, this approach does not make predictions for some examples with inverse scope (wide scope in object position).\n\nFor example, everyone loves someone.\n\nWhen there is no scope interaction in the relevant portion of the sentence, making either choice shows no difference in semantics.\n\nA short time later, May suggested a different idea. In contrast to Montague, May did not propose any syntax that generates the surface string. He proposed a rule called Quantifier Raising (QR), which explains that movement operations of wh-movement continue to operate on the level of LF, and each phrase continues to possess the quantifier in its domain. May suggested that QR applies to all quantifier phrases with no exception.\n\nThe study of Quantification carried on in the 1980s. In contrast to May and Montague, it was suggested that independently motivated phrase structure, such as the relative clause, imposes a limitation on scope options.\n\nThis clause boundedness somewhat restricts the QR. May also noticed a subject-object asymmetry with respect to the interaction of wh-words and quantifier phrases. A modified version of his past work that QR determines quantifier scope but does not disambiguate it was brought up. To regulate the interaction, The Scope Principle that if two operators govern each other, they can be interpreted in either scopal order was also brought up. However, this solution has eventually been abandoned.\n\nAs Minimalism showed up in 1990s, more studies have been related to Minimalist syntax. A strategy to remedy the situation is to eliminate QR and the expected scope would be by-products of entirely independent grammatical processes. The other strategy is to modify QR and show it can be fitted into a Minimalist structure.\n\nDanny Fox discusses syntactic positions of QNPs as a way of introducing and illustrating the basic semantic and syntactic relations found in LF. By looking at the meaning of QNPs in relation to the property they are given, or their predicate, we can derive the meaning of the whole sentence.\nTo understand the Logical Form of these examples, it is important to identify what the basic predicate is and which segments make up the QNPs. In these examples, the predicate is tall and the QNPs are a girl, many girls, every girl and no girl. The logical meaning of these sentences indicates that the property of being tall is attributed to some form of the QNP referring to girl. Along with the QNP and the predicate, there is also an inference of truth value. Either the truth value is True for a person who is tall, otherwise the truth value is False.\n\nEach of the examples above will have different conditions that make the statement true according to the quantifier that precedes girl.\n\nIn a syntactic tree, the structure is represented as such: \"the argument of a QNP is always the sister of the QNP.\"\n\nIn linguistics, wh-phrases are operators binding variables at LF, like other quantifier noun phrases. Scope interpretations can be constrained by syntactic constraints as shown in LF when regarding the scope of wh-phrases and quantifiers. When wh-movement is from the subject position it is unambiguous, but when wh-movement is from the object position it is ambiguous.\n\nThis example demonstrates the effect of the Path Containment Condition (PCC). An A'-path is a line of dominating nodes that go from the trace to a c-commanding A'-binder. If two of the A'paths intersect then one must be contained in the other. If the paths are overlapping without having one being contained in the other, then it is ill-formed. (2)'s paths are overlapping, violating PCC, therefore in order to obtain a grammatical LF structure, everything needs to join the VP. The LF structure then becomes:\n\nIn the sentence, \"Five doctors prescribed few new pills to every patient.\", the scope in Hungarian is largely disambiguated by the linear order of quantifiers on the surface. Two facts that should be kept in mind are (1) the linear order is not obtained by putting quantifiers together in the desired order, which contradicts the predictions made by Montague or May's theory; (2) the linear order is not determined by case or grammatical functions, which supports the prediction of Hornstein's theory. \n\nThe significance of A-chains has been emphasized in the Chinese language. Scope in Chinese is disambiguated by case positions in some examples. In this example, the active sentence only has subject wide scope, but the passive sentence is ambiguous. The active sentence only has one interpretation: \nif there are two women who read every book, which is in the subject wide scope. According to Aoun and Li, Chinese does not have VP-internal subjects, thus, \"liangge nuren\" cannot be reconstructed in LF. So the sentence has no ambiguous interpretation. However, the passive sentence has two interpretations, 1. everyone finds the same two clues; 2. everyone finds two clues, while two clues can be different ones. That is because \"liangge xiansuo\" is in VP-internal complement position, then in LF, it can be reconstructed. So the passive sentence has two different interpretations.\n\nThis phrase is ambiguous in that it can be interpreted as the noun 'boy' referring to a particular individual or to a different individual for each instance of 'tree' under the quantifier 'every'. The interpretation that a single boy climbed all the trees takes a wide scope, while the other interpretation that for every tree there is a boy, who maybe be different for each tree takes a narrow scope.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37579176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37579176", "title": "Magic set", "text": "Magic set\n\nA magic set or magic kit is a kind of toy, usually directed at younger children, which includes materials and instructions to perform some simple magic tricks. The tricks included often rely heavily on gimmicked props, and require little skill to perform. In addition to providing props for various tricks, these sets will often contain instructions for many more, elevating the number of tricks that can be advertised. Sets directed at adults, known as \"executive\" magic sets, often have higher-quality materials and more complex tricks.\n"}
{"id": "8636623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8636623", "title": "Nakum", "text": "Nakum\n\nNakum (\"House of the pot\") is a Mesoamerican archaeological site, and a former ceremonial center and city of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization. It is located in the northeastern portion of the Petén Basin region, in the modern-day Guatemalan department of Petén. The northeastern Petén region contains a good number of other significant Maya sites, and Nakum is one of the three sites forming the Cultural Triangle of \"Yaxha-Nakum-Naranjo\". Nakum is approximately to the north of Yaxha and some to the east of Tikal, on the banks of the Holmul River. Its main features include an abundance of visibly restored architecture, and the roof comb of the site's main temple structure is one of the best-preserved outside Tikal.\n\nThis city has evidence of occupation dating from the Middle Preclassic period of Mesoamerican chronology. For the most part of the Classic period, Nakum appeared to be subordinate to Tikal. Nakum particularly flourished during the Late Classic (c. 8th century—10th century), due to its strategic situation north of Holmul river which was an important trade and communication route during this era. All the visible architecture belongs to this period, there are 15 stelae, Structure A with a triadic top, form along with structure C an astronomical complex. Structure V has vaults and vertical walls. Outside Tikal, it shows the largest corpus of ancient Maya script graffiti in a Classic Maya site. Nakum reached its apogee in the Terminal Classic period and might have achieved political independence around this time. However, it was abandoned soon after its apogee.\n\nThe site of Nakum may be divided into two main sectors, North and South, connected by a causeway named after Perigny. The Northern sector contains many impressive buildings, but it has been comparatively little investigated. The Southern sector is larger in extent, and contains the main Acropolis together with 11 patios and several classes of structures, including a 44-room \"palace\" (known as the D building). In the center of the southern complex is another elevated Acropolis which provides a clear overview of the other important structures. This latter Acropolis contains the building known as Structure Y, which by its location can be presumed to have served as the main residential complex for the site's main ruler.\n\nThe fact that the main Acropolis was such an important and imposing structure clearly sends a message, in this site the political aspects had considerable weight. In comparison with the religious architecture which is located at a lower level. The Temples located in the south of sector at the Central Plaza (Temple A, B and C) form a clear triangle pointing to the north.\nLike in Tikal the Central Plaza of Nakum is oriented towards the four directions and located at the south there is the complex of palaces of the city. Since it is the main plaza of the city it is possible that from the Palace D the ruler and the royals observed the rituals and performances that took place at the plaza. Next is the East Plaza (it holds Temple V) which for some unknown reason was abandoned, since the Temple is located at the East it clearly shows that particular plaza was related to the sun deity. Finally the South East Plaza (it holds Temple U) and it has a direct relationship with the main Acropolis.\n\nThe site today known as Nakum was re-discovered in 1905 by Maurice Perigny. Since then several archaeological and restorative expeditions have been conducted at the site, including an official restoration by Guatemalan authorities which commenced in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "26318925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26318925", "title": "National lidar dataset", "text": "National lidar dataset\n\nA national lidar dataset refers to a high-resolution lidar dataset comprising most—and ideally all—of a nation’s terrain. Datasets of this type typically meet specified quality standards and are publicly available for free (or at nominal cost) in one or more uniform formats from government or academic sources. National LiDAR datasets are used primarily in LIDAR Contour Mapping, and also for forestry, urban and rural planning, recreational, environmental, engineering, and geological studies and planning, among others.\n\nCountries with national lidar datasets either completed or in progress include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3611935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3611935", "title": "Paleolinguistics", "text": "Paleolinguistics\n\nPaleolinguistics is a term used by some linguists for the study of the distant human past by linguistic means. For most historical linguists there is no separate field of paleolinguistics. Those who use the term are generally advocates of hypotheses not generally accepted by mainstream historical linguists, a group colloquially referred to as \"long-rangers\".\n\nThe controversial hypotheses in question fall into two categories. Some of them involve the application of standard historical linguistic methodology in ways that raise doubts as to the validity of the hypothesis. A good example of this sort is the Moscow school of Nostraticists, founded by Vladislav Illich-Svitych and including Aharon Dolgopolsky, Sergei Starostin, and Vitaly Shevoroshkin, who have argued for the existence of Nostratic, a language family including the Indo-European, Afro-Asiatic, Altaic, Dravidian, and Kartvelian language families and sometimes other languages. They have established regular phonological correspondences, observed morphological similarities, and reconstructed a proto-language in accordance with the accepted methodology. Nostratic is not generally accepted, in part because critics have doubts about the accuracy of the correspondences and reconstruction.\n\nOther hypotheses are controversial because the methods used to support them are considered by mainstream historical linguists to be invalid in principle. Into that category fall proposals based on mass comparison, a technique in which relationships are postulated on basis of sets of words resembling each other in sound and meaning, without establishing phonological correspondences or carrying out a reconstruction.\n\nProminent examples are the work of Joseph Greenberg and Merritt Ruhlen. Most linguists reject that method as unable to distinguish similarities from common ancestry from those from borrowing or chance.\n\nOther linguists who may be considered paleolinguists due to their advocacy of long-range hypotheses include: \nJohn Bengtson, Knut Bergsland, Derek Bickerton, Václav Blažek, Robert Caldwell, Matthias Castrén, Björn Collinder, Albert Cuny, Igor Diakonov, Vladimir Dybo, Harold Fleming, Eugene Helimski, Otto Jespersen, Frederik Kortlandt, Samuel E. Martin, Roy Andrew Miller, Hermann Möller, Susumu Ōno, Holger Pedersen, Alexis Manaster Ramer, G.J. Ramstedt, Rasmus Rask, Jochem Schindler, Wilhelm Schmidt, Georgiy Starostin, Morris Swadesh, Henry Sweet, Vilhelm Thomsen, Vladimir N. Toporov, Alfredo Trombetti, C.C. Uhlenbeck. \n\nAn entirely different point of view underlies Mario Alinei's Paleolithic Continuity Theory, which is based on the doctrine of polygenism rather than that of monogenesis. \n\nThe first novel that dealt with the theme of paleolinguistics and Proto-Nostratic is U.S. author Armen Melikian's award-winning Journey to Virginland, first released in 2010. Melikian's work covers several pages of review of the Proto-Nostratic hypothesis and a putative link to ancient Egyptian and Proto-Indo-European religion or mythology of the proto-historical layers of an ancient epic, known as The Daredevils of Sassoun, preserved in an ethno-geographic isolate near Lake Van in ancient Armenia.\n\nThe mystery novel The Ekkos Clan written by Sudipto Das and released in July 2013 used Linguistic Paleontology, perhaps for the first time in popular fiction, as the tool to decipher, supposedly, the Proto Indo-European Language, linguistic fossils of which were shown to be preserved in the folk-tales in a family through generations for thousands of years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6501070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501070", "title": "Part–whole theory", "text": "Part–whole theory\n\nPart–whole theory is the name of a loose collection of historical theories, all informal and nearly all unwitting, relating wholes to their parts via inclusion. Part–whole theory has been overtaken by mereology.\n\nMetaphysics, especially ontology, has invoked part–whole concepts ever since Aristotle founded the subject.\n\nHusserl (1970) (German original first published in 1901) was the first to consciously elaborate a part–whole theory (on which see Tieszen 1995). However he employed no symbolism or logic, even though his doctorate was in mathematics and Georg Cantor was his friend and colleague; Husserl wrote only for his fellow philosophers.\n\n19th century mathematicians became dimly aware that they were invoking a part–whole theory of sorts only after Cantor and Peano first articulated set theory. Before then, mathematicians often confused inclusion and membership. Grattan-Guinness (2000) appears to have been the first to draw attention to this unwitting part–whole theory.\n\nPeano was among the first to articulate clearly the distinction between membership in a given set, and being a subset of that set. A subset of a set is usually not also a member of that set. However, the members of a subset are all members of the set. In set theory, a singleton cannot be identified with its member. In part–whole theory and mereology, this identification necessarily holds.\n\nThe Cantor–Peano concept of set did not become canonical until about 1910, when the first volume of \"Principia Mathematica\" appeared, and right after Ernst Zermelo proposed the first axiomatization of set theory in 1908. \n\nStarting in 1916, and culminating in his 1929 \"Process and Reality\", A. N. Whitehead published several books invoking part–whole concepts of varying degrees of formality; see Whitehead's point-free geometry.\n\nPart–whole theory has been superseded by a collection of fully formal theories called mereology, Stanislaw Lesniewski's term for a formal part–whole theory he began expositing in 1912. Over the course of the 20th century, a number of Polish logicians and mathematicians contributed to this \"Polish mereology.\" Even though Polish mereology is now only of historical interest, the word \"mereology\" endures as the name of a collection of first order theories relating parts to their respective wholes. These theories, unlike set theory, can be proved sound and complete.\n\nNearly all work that has appeared since 1970 under the heading of mereology descends from the 1940 calculus of individuals of Henry Leonard and Nelson Goodman. Simons (1987) is a survey of mereology aimed at philosophers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8472197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8472197", "title": "Prince Prigio", "text": "Prince Prigio\n\nPrince Prigio is a literary and comic fairy tale written by Andrew Lang in 1889, and illustrated by Gordon Browne. It draws in Lang's folklorist background for many tropes. \n\nA sequel was published in 1893, \"Prince Ricardo of Pantouflia: Being the Adventures of Prince Prigio's Son\". The two were issued in one 1895 volume as \"My Own Fairy Book: Namely, Certain Chronicles of Pantouflia, As Notably the Adventures of Prigio, Prince of That Country, and of His Son, Ricardo, with an Excerpt from the Annals of Scotland, As Touching Ker of Fairnilee, His Sojourn with the Queen of Faery\". All three books were published by J. W. Arrowsmith of Bristol. \"My Own Fairy Book\" appeared during the run of \"Coloured Fairy Books\" edited by Lang and published in London and New York by Longmans, Green, and Co. from 1890: \"The Blue Fairy Book\", \"The Red Fairy Book\", and so on. Longmans was also the US publisher of the Pantouflia books.\n\nThe two stories were also published together as \"The Chronicles of Pantouflia\" by Little, Brown and Company in 1942, with illustrations by Robert Lawson, and by David R. Godine in 1981. \n\nThe plot of \"Prince Prigio\" begins with the introduction of a queen who does not believe in fairies. After many childless years, she and the king finally had a boy, Prigio. When the queen refused to invite the fairies to the christening, none of the nobles would attend, and so the king and queen were alone when the fairies arrived and presented the child with gifts. Among the gifts were a never-empty purse (Fortunatus' purse), seven-league boots, a cap of darkness which would make him invisible, a wishing cap, a magic carpet, and also beauty, courage, and luck, but the last fairy decreed, \"My child, you shall be too clever!\"\n\nThis would have pleased the queen, but she did not believe it. She had all the items swept into a lumber room. \n\nThe prince grew up to be too clever. He would argue with everyone and knew better than everyone. He had two younger brothers, neither of whom was clever, and both of whom were liked; they fell in love with their cousins. The king particularly disliked Prigio, fearing he would claim the throne, and wanted to be rid of him. One day, a firedrake appeared in the country; the king was sorry that it would kill his second son as well as his first before the youngest son killed it, but he would sacrifice him to be rid of Prigio. Prigio, like his mother, refused to believe in its existence and reminded him that it was the youngest son who triumphed, so they should send him at once. \n\nAlphonse, his youngest brother, went and was eaten; Prigio, still not believing in firedrakes, thought he had gone off to travel. The king sent Enrico, the second, as well, and he also died. The king tried to send Prigio, who refused because he still disbelieved in the firedrake and also he was the last surviving heir. The king decided to take the rest of the court and abandon Prigio alone in the castle. When they did, Prigio found they also stole every piece of clothing except what he wore. He searched the castle and found the lumber room with the fairies' gifts. The seven-league boots bore him to an inn to eat, and he thought he dreamed it. No one paid any attention to him; he did not know that he was wearing an invisibility cap. He stole food, and when his cap was knocked off, paid from it from the purse -- which he found still full later. Whenever his cap came on or off, he appeared or vanished, but did not realize it. \n\nStill invisible, he went to a ball where everyone spoke badly of him except for one lady, who praised his aiding a poor student, and Prigio fell madly in love with her. At once, he believed in fairies and magic and realized everything that had happened to them. He used the things to make himself suitable for the ball and went and met the lady, the daughter of the English Ambassador, Lady Rosalind. When she spoke of the firedrake, he said he would kill it. He went back and found a magical spyglass, which he knew from Arabian Nights and spied out the dragon. He realized that even with his magical gifts, he had no chance, and his brothers had had none. He went to library to find a book by Cyrano de Bergerac about his trip to the moon. In it, he read of the Remora, which was as cold as the firedrake was hot; he resolved to find one and make the creatures fight. He found it using the spyglass, and went both creatures, taunting them in the other's name. The monsters met, fought, and killed each other. \n\nHe went back to the ambassador's house, and found that his father had issued a proclamation offering a reward for him, and another promising to make the Crown Prince, and marry to his niece, whoever brought the king the firedrake's horns and tail. He also found that his carpet had vanished, a servant having accidentally wished himself to the royal castle, with the firedrake's horns and tail.\n\nThen the carpet reappeared, with the servant, the king, and the queen, who refused to believe it. The king refused to be reconciled with Prigio. He tells how the servant claimed the reward, and when they disbelieved him, show them the carpet.\n\nDuring the night, the prince went back and cut off the firedrake's hooves. At court, the servant claimed that the proclamation had promised the reward to whoever brought the horns and tail, not the dragon-slayer. Prigio pointed out that if this was allowed, the king could not claim to say one thing and have meant another, which was a royal prerogative. The niece refused to choose between them. The king finally said that whoever brought its hooves would receive the reward. Prigio produced them at once. \n\nThe king insisted that he must marry his cousin, the promised niece, at once, or hang. Prigio prefers to hang, but suggested that if he recovered his brothers, the king could remit his sentence. The king agreed. Prigio went back to the castle where he had been abandoned, killed an old cat he found there, burned it, and restored it to life with the water from the Fountain of Lions -- being certain that the fairies would not have neglected it. Having thus tested it, he went to the firedrake's lair and restored his brothers; he then went to the remora's and restored the knights it had frozen. \n\nThe king was pleased to see his sons but would not restore Prigio to the Crown Princeship. Prigio pointed out he had the water and the firedrake's head, and the king agreed.\n\nAfter a triple wedding, Rosalind suggested to Prigio that he could use the wishing cap and make himself no cleverer than anyone else. Prigio agreed but thought better of it: he wished himself to no more clever than anyone else.\n\n"}
{"id": "27647567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27647567", "title": "Revista Hispánica Moderna", "text": "Revista Hispánica Moderna\n\nRevista Hispánica Moderna is a peer-reviewed academic journal which focuses on research in Hispanic and Luso-Brazilian literature and culture. It was founded in 1934 as \"Boletín del Instituto de las Españas\" at Columbia University. The current editor is Carlos J. Alonso, the Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor in the Humanities at Columbia University. The journal is published semiannually by the University of Pennsylvania Press. It is available online through Project MUSE and JSTOR.\n\nIn 2009, the Council of Editors of Learned Journals awarded the \"Revista Hispánica Moderna\" the 2009 Phoenix Award for Significant Editorial Achievement. The description reads as follows: \"This award goes to the most improved journal, regardless of its state at the time the renovations began. A weak journal that has become excellent is eligible, but so too is an admired journal that manages to become dramatically better. Submissions must feature significant editorial change and may also feature change in design and other aspects of the journal's publication.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22809967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22809967", "title": "Robert Clive (1789–1854)", "text": "Robert Clive (1789–1854)\n\nThe Hon. Robert Henry Clive (15 January 1789 – 20 January 1854) was a British Conservative Party politician.\n\nClive was born in the parish of St George's, Hanover Square, London, a younger son of Edward Clive, 1st Earl of Powis, son of Robert Clive, 1st Baron Clive (\"Clive of India\"). His mother was Lady Henrietta, daughter of Henry Herbert, 1st Earl of Powis. Edward Herbert (\"ne\" Clive), 2nd Earl of Powis, was his elder brother. He was educated at Eton College and was at St John's College, Cambridge from 1807 to 1809, when he graduated M.A.. He was awarded an honorary LL.D. in 1835.\n\nClive sat as Member of Parliament for Ludlow from 1818 to 1832 (alongside his brother, then known as Viscount Clive) and for Shropshire South from 1832 to 1854.\n\nAn agricultural landowner in Shropshire, Worcestershire, and Wales, he was an advocate of the abolition of the Corn Laws during Sir Robert Peel's administration. He was appointed to the commission investigating the Rebecca Riots in south Wales in October 1843.\n\nHe was also a DL and JP for the county of Shropshire and JP for Worcestershire.\n\nClive was commissioned Captain in the South Shropshire Militia in 1809. He was later in the South Shropshire Yeomanry Cavalry, commanding a troop at Bishop's Castle, from 1817 to 1828. He was Colonel commanding the Worcestershire Yeomanry from 1833 until his death.\n\nA keen antiquary, he was author of \"Documents Concerned with the History of Ludlow and the Lords Marchers\" (1841), and president of the Cambrian Archaeological Association in 1852.\n\nClive was deputy-chairman of two early railway companies in Shropshire, the Shrewsbury and Birmingham and the Shrewsbury and Hereford Railway. It was at a directors' meeting of the latter, on 30 December 1853, that he was fatally taken ill.\n\nClive married Lady Harriet, daughter of Other Windsor, 5th Earl of Plymouth, in 1819. They had several children, including Robert Windsor-Clive and George Windsor-Clive. After falling ill at a railway company directors' meeting, Clive died in Shrewsbury in January 1854, aged 65, at the nearby home of the Town Clerk. He was buried at Bromfield Parish Church, near his Oakley Park home near Ludlow. \n\nThe following year the barony of Windsor, which had fallen into abeyance on his brother-in-law's death in 1833, was called out of abeyance in favour of his widow, Harriett, who became the thirteenth Baroness Windsor in her own right. She died in November 1869, aged 72, and was succeeded in the barony by her grandson, Robert Windsor-Clive, who was created Earl of Plymouth in 1905.\n"}
{"id": "10043493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10043493", "title": "Rurouni Kenshin: Trust &amp; Betrayal", "text": "Rurouni Kenshin: Trust &amp; Betrayal\n\nRurouni Kenshin: Trust & Betrayal, known in Japan as , is a 1999 original video animation series directed by Kazuhiro Furuhashi, screenplay-written by Masashi Sogo, scored by Taku Iwasaki, and animated by Studio Deen. Based on the \"Rurouni Kenshin\" manga written and illustrated by Nobuhiro Watsuki, \"Trust & Betrayal\" chronicles the story of Himura Kenshin as the \"Hitokiri Battōsai\" during the final years of the Bakumatsu era while also revealing the origins of his cross-shaped scar and exploring his relationship with a woman named Yukishiro Tomoe.\n\nThe OVA series was first licensed by ADV Films for VHS and DVD releases in North America and the United Kingdom, and by Madman Entertainment for releases in Australasia, under the title Samurai X: Trust & Betrayal. \"Trust & Betrayal\" was later collected into a two-hour feature-length motion picture with new animated sequences and released theatrically in Japan. In 2003, this feature-length motion picture was eventually released in North America on DVD as a director's cut by ADV Films. After ADV Films' closure, Aniplex of America began licensing the OVA series for Blu-ray Disc releases in North America under its original title: \"Rurouni Kenshin: Trust & Betrayal\". It has received universal critical acclaim from anime critics, with praise directed towards the story, animation, art, music and Japanese voice acting.\n\nWhile a raid of bandits slay a group of travelers, a young boy named Shinta is saved from death by a passing swordsman. The swordsman, known as Hiko Seijūrō, is a master of the Hiten Mitsurugi, the strongest of all sword forms. After seeing the boy bury the bodies of not only the travelers but also the bandits, Hiko is impressed and takes Shinta as an apprentice, renaming him \"Kenshin\", a name which he felt was more appropriate for a swordsman.\n\nAfter years of training, Kenshin leaves his master following an argument, convinced that the only way to uphold the Hiten Mitsurugi's pledge to help the weak and innocent is to join the revolution poised to upend the Tokugawa shogunate. He joins the Choshu clan and soon works for their leader, Katsura Kogorō, as an assassin. Kenshin soon becomes a hardened killer, feared far and wide as the \"Hitokiri Battōsai\". During a successful assassination, he kills a bodyguard named Kiyosato Akira. The encounter with Kiyosato leaves Kenshin with the first half of his cross-shaped scar. After killing a skilled assassin, Kenshin meets a woman named Yukishiro Tomoe, unaware of the fact that she is the fiancée of Kiyosato. Kenshin takes her to the inn where he and the men of the Choshu clan are residing. Katsura suspects a spy among the Choshu after Kenshin informs him of the assassin he killed.\n\nAfter the Ikedaya affair, Katsura arranges for Kenshin and Tomoe to hide in the village of Otsu as husband and wife, so the two would not be suspected. After a few months, Tomoe's brother Enishi comes to visit and secretly reveals to his sister that the shogunate agents assigned to track down and kill Kenshin are close by, and that her revenge will be complete. Tomoe sends Enishi off, feeling ill at ease. It is here that Tomoe realizes that she has fallen in love with Kenshin. Kenshin, too, is in love with Tomoe. The next morning, Tomoe leaves the house and tries to deceive the shogunate men into giving up their pursuit of Kenshin and unsuccessfully attempts to kill their leader.\n\nAfter Tomoe's disappearance, Kenshin is visited by a comrade who tells him that the spy was Tomoe and that she is meeting at that moment with her co-conspirators. He also reveals to Kenshin that she is the fiancée of Kiyosato, the man he killed. Kenshin, however, is unaware that it is this man who is the real spy. While heading to Tomoe's location, a heavily-shocked Kenshin faces and kills three of the four shogunate agents but becomes badly injured due to his traumatized state. While Kenshin is fighting with the leader, Tomoe steps in between the two to protect Kenshin from the killing below. This allows Kenshin to kill his opponent but, in doing so, unintentionally impales Tomoe also. Before her death, she gives him the second part of his cross-shaped wound.\n\nKenshin, blaming himself for Tomoe's death, swears to fight to bring about the age desired by Katsura, but after that to continue fighting to protect the innocent without killing again. Katsura informs Kenshin that he had a new assassin kill the real spy. As the Tokugawa shogunate is nearing its end, Kenshin has his first encounter with the Shinsengumi captains Okita Sōji and his future rival, Saitō Hajime. It is then revealed that once the Bakumatsu revolution had ended, the \"Hitokiri Battōsai\" had disappeared without a trace. Then Kenshin returns to the graves of the travelers he buried when he was a child and places Tomoe's scarf on them. Sometime afterwards, Hiko Seijūrō passes by the site and notices the scarf, realizing Kenshin had finally learned his lesson.\n\nDaryl Surat of \"Otaku USA\" stated that this series uses a more \"realistic\" art style than the television series uses, and that the series has \"graphic, bloody violence galore\" beginning in the opening sequence.\n\nOne of the major themes of \"Trust\" is understanding the repercussions and after-effects murder can have, something that Kenshin has yet to comprehend though others have tried to point it out to him.\n\n\"Trust & Betrayal\"'s story, animation, art, music and Japanese voice acting have all been heavily praised by various critics and, consequently, the series itself has been widely acknowledged as a masterpiece and one of anime's crowning achievements.\n\nTHEM Anime Reviews gave the entire OVA series a perfect score of 5 out of 5 stars, with reviewer Tim Jones stating, \"powerful, evocative, saddening, and heavily charged, \"Rurouni Kenshin: Trust & Betrayal\" is a series that goes far beyond its comic-book origins, testing the limits of not only its franchise, but the medium of original video animation as a storytelling device. Furthermore, while it surpasses the original television series in many ways, it remains complementary and insightful to why Kenshin becomes the way he is. After all, nothing builds character quite so well as a stirring tragedy. It doesn't get much more tragic or stirring than this.\" He summarised the series as \"dramatic, tragic, beautiful\" and \"a sterling example of Japanese animation at its finest\".\n\n\"Trust & Betrayal\" has received significant praise from Anime News Network reviewers. Mike Crandol noted it as one of the greatest OVA series of all time, celebrating the new characters designs as well as the fights scenes which were also noted to be \"terribly bloody\" and beautiful at the same time. In his review, Carl Kimlinger described the series as \"stirring, devastating, smart, redemptive and pure perfection\" and gave the series an 'A+' rating for the subbed version and an 'A' rating for the dub. Bamboo Dong claimed that watching this series would benefit the viewer with a \"stunning overall experience\" before finishing off that \"\"Rurouni Kenshin: Tsuioku Hen\" is a masterpiece, with dramatic visuals and beautiful animation\".\n\n\"Animerica\" reviewer Rio Yañez praised \"Trust\"s \"introspective take on violence\" as well as its being \"chock-full of insane samurai sword fights and free-flying appendages\" while avoiding stereotypical freeze frame animation. While considering the violence \"over the top\", he felt it was well handled, avoiding being excessive or gratuitous, and that the action scenes were \"well balanced by the lavish background paintings and designs\". He did criticize ADV Film's English dub as \"kung fu style dubbing\", noting that the voice actors frequently mispronounced the Japanese names and left the voice track mildly confusing despite the English script's serious take of the material.\n\nTo illustrate, DVD Talk reviewer Don Houston found the OVA's story and music solid. The director's cut version received positive comments by how the four OVAs were arranged with Houston commenting it \"seems more like a movie that stands alone, rather than just the precursor to a long lasting series.\"\n\nDaryl Surat of \"Otaku USA\" said that, despite what Dave Riley said, viewers should watch the television series before watching \"Trust & Betrayal\". Surat explained that the OVA has \"great moments\" that a viewer unfamiliar with the television series would not \"bat an eye toward.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29107", "title": "Semantics", "text": "Semantics\n\nSemantics (from \"sēmantikós\", \"significant\") is the linguistic and philosophical study of meaning, in language, programming languages, formal logics, and semiotics. It is concerned with the relationship between \"signifiers\"—like words, phrases, signs, and symbols—and what they stand for, their denotation.\n\nIn international scientific vocabulary semantics is also called \"semasiology\". The word \"semantics\" was first used by Michel Bréal, a French philologist. It denotes a range of ideas—from the popular to the highly technical. It is often used in ordinary language for denoting a problem of understanding that comes down to word selection or connotation. This problem of understanding has been the subject of many formal enquiries, over a long period of time, especially in the field of formal semantics. In linguistics, it is the study of the interpretation of signs or symbols used in agents or communities within particular circumstances and contexts. Within this view, sounds, facial expressions, body language, and proxemics have semantic (meaningful) content, and each comprises several branches of study. In written language, things like paragraph structure and punctuation bear semantic content; other forms of language bear other semantic content.\n\nThe formal study of semantics intersects with many other fields of inquiry, including lexicology, syntax, pragmatics, etymology and others. Independently, semantics is also a well-defined field in its own right, often with synthetic properties. In the philosophy of language, semantics and reference are closely connected. Further related fields include philology, communication, and semiotics. The formal study of semantics can therefore be manifold and complex.\n\nSemantics contrasts with syntax, the study of the combinatorics of units of a language (without reference to their meaning), and pragmatics, the study of the relationships between the symbols of a language, their meaning, and the users of the language. Semantics as a field of study also has significant ties to various representational theories of meaning including truth theories of meaning, coherence theories of meaning, and correspondence theories of meaning. Each of these is related to the general philosophical study of reality and the representation of meaning. In 1960s psychosemantic studies became popular after Osgood's massive cross-cultural studies using his semantic differential (SD) method that used thousands of nouns and adjective bipolar scales. A specific form of the SD, Projective Semantics method uses only most common and neutral nouns that correspond to the 7 groups (factors) of adjective-scales most consistently found in cross-cultural studies (Evaluation, Potency, Activity as found by Osgood, and Reality, Organization, Complexity, Limitation as found in other studies). In this method, seven groups of bipolar adjective scales corresponded to seven types of nouns so the method was thought to have the object-scale symmetry (OSS) between the scales and nouns for evaluation using these scales. For example, the nouns corresponding to the listed 7 factors would be: Beauty, Power, Motion, Life, Work, Chaos, Law. Beauty was expected to be assessed unequivocally as “very good” on adjectives of Evaluation-related scales, Life as “very real” on Reality-related scales, etc. However, deviations in this symmetric and very basic matrix might show underlying biases of two types: scales-related bias and objects-related bias. This OSS design meant to increase the sensitivity of the SD method to any semantic biases in responses of people within the same culture and educational background.\n\nIn linguistics, semantics is the subfield that is devoted to the study of meaning, as inherent at the levels of words, phrases, sentences, and larger units of discourse (termed \"texts\", or \"narratives\"). The study of semantics is also closely linked to the subjects of representation, reference and denotation. The basic study of semantics is oriented to the examination of the meaning of signs, and the study of relations between different linguistic units and compounds: homonymy, synonymy, antonymy, hypernymy, hyponymy, meronymy, metonymy, holonymy, paronyms. A key concern is how meaning attaches to larger chunks of text, possibly as a result of the composition from smaller units of meaning. Traditionally, semantics has included the study of \"sense\" and denotative \"reference\", truth conditions, argument structure, thematic roles, discourse analysis, and the linkage of all of these to syntax.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Richard Montague proposed a system for defining semantic entries in the lexicon in terms of the lambda calculus. In these terms, the syntactic parse of the sentence \"John ate every bagel\" would consist of a subject (\"John\") and a predicate (\"ate every bagel\"); Montague demonstrated that the meaning of the sentence altogether could be decomposed into the meanings of its parts and in relatively few rules of combination. The logical predicate thus obtained would be elaborated further, e.g. using truth theory models, which ultimately relate meanings to a set of Tarskian universals, which may lie outside the logic. The notion of such meaning atoms or primitives is basic to the language of thought hypothesis from the 1970s.\n\nDespite its elegance, Montague grammar was limited by the context-dependent variability in word sense, and led to several attempts at incorporating context, such as:\n\nIn Chomskyan linguistics there was no mechanism for the learning of semantic relations, and the nativist view considered all semantic notions as inborn. Thus, even novel concepts were proposed to have been dormant in some sense. This view was also thought unable to address many issues such as metaphor or associative meanings, and semantic change, where meanings within a linguistic community change over time, and qualia or subjective experience. Another issue not addressed by the nativist model was how perceptual cues are combined in thought, e.g. in mental rotation.\n\nThis view of semantics, as an innate finite meaning inherent in a lexical unit that can be composed to generate meanings for larger chunks of discourse, is now being fiercely debated in the emerging domain of cognitive linguistics\nand also in the non-Fodorian camp in philosophy of language.\nThe main challenge is motivated by:\n\nA concrete example of the latter phenomenon is semantic underspecification – meanings are not complete without some elements of context. To take an example of one word, \"red\", its meaning in a phrase such as \"red book\" is similar to many other usages, and can be viewed as compositional. However, the colours implied in phrases such as \"red wine\" (very dark), and \"red hair\" (coppery), or \"red soil\", or \"red skin\" are very different. Indeed, these colours by themselves would not be called \"red\" by native speakers. These instances are contrastive, so \"red wine\" is so called only in comparison with the other kind of wine (which also is not \"white\" for the same reasons). This view goes back to de Saussure:\nand may go back to earlier Indian views on language, especially the Nyaya view of words as indicators and not carriers of meaning.\n\nAn attempt to defend a system based on propositional meaning for semantic underspecification can be found in the generative lexicon model of James Pustejovsky, who extends contextual operations (based on type shifting) into the lexicon. Thus meanings are generated \"on the fly\" (as you go), based on finite context.\n\nAnother set of concepts related to fuzziness in semantics is based on prototypes. The work of Eleanor Rosch in the 1970s led to a view that natural categories are not characterizable in terms of necessary and sufficient conditions, but are graded (fuzzy at their boundaries) and inconsistent as to the status of their constituent members. One may compare it with Jung's archetype, though the concept of archetype sticks to static concept. Some post-structuralists are against the fixed or static meaning of the words. Derrida, following Nietzsche, talked about slippages in fixed meanings.\n\nSystems of categories are not objectively \"out there\" in the world but are rooted in people's experience. These categories evolve as learned concepts of the world – meaning is not an objective truth, but a subjective construct, learned from experience, and language arises out of the \"grounding of our conceptual systems in shared embodiment and bodily experience\".\nA corollary of this is that the conceptual categories (i.e. the lexicon) will not be identical for different cultures, or indeed, for every individual in the same culture. This leads to another debate (see the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis or Eskimo words for snow).\n\nOriginates from Montague's work (see above). A highly formalized theory of natural language semantics in which expressions are assigned denotations (meanings) such as individuals, truth values, or functions from one of these to another. The truth of a sentence, and its logical relation to other sentences, is then evaluated relative to a model.\n\nPioneered by the philosopher Donald Davidson, another formalized theory, which aims to associate each natural language sentence with a meta-language description of the conditions under which it is true, for example: 'Snow is white' is true if and only if snow is white. The challenge is to arrive at the truth conditions for any sentences from fixed meanings assigned to the individual words and fixed rules for how to combine them. In practice, truth-conditional semantics is similar to model-theoretic semantics; conceptually, however, they differ in that truth-conditional semantics seeks to connect language with statements about the real world (in the form of meta-language statements), rather than with abstract models.\n\nThis theory is an effort to explain properties of argument structure. The assumption behind this theory is that syntactic properties of phrases reflect the meanings of the words that head them. With this theory, linguists can better deal with the fact that subtle differences in word meaning correlate with other differences in the syntactic structure that the word appears in. The way this is gone about is by looking at the internal structure of words. These small parts that make up the internal structure of words are termed \"semantic primitives\".\n\nA linguistic theory that investigates word meaning. This theory understands that the meaning of a word is fully reflected by its context. Here, the meaning of a word is constituted by its contextual relations. Therefore, a distinction between degrees of participation as well as modes of participation are made. In order to accomplish this distinction any part of a sentence that bears a meaning and combines with the meanings of other constituents is labeled as a semantic constituent. Semantic constituents that cannot be broken down into more elementary constituents are labeled minimal semantic constituents.\n\nComputational semantics is focused on the processing of linguistic meaning. In order to do this concrete algorithms and architectures are described. Within this framework the algorithms and architectures are also analyzed in terms of decidability, time/space complexity, data structures that they require and communication protocols.\n\nIn computer science, the term \"semantics\" refers to the meaning of language constructs, as opposed to their form (syntax). According to Euzenat, semantics \"provides the rules for interpreting the syntax which do not provide the meaning directly but constrains the possible interpretations of what is declared.\" In ontology engineering, the term \"semantics\" refers to the meaning of concepts, properties, and relationships that formally represent real-world entities, events, and scenes in a logical underpinning, such as a description logic, and typically implemented in the Web Ontology Language. The meaning of description logic concepts and roles is defined by their model-theoretic semantics, which are based on interpretations. The concepts, properties, and relationships defined in OWL ontologies can be deployed directly in the web site markup as RDFa, HTML5 Microdata, or JSON-LD, in graph databases as RDF triples or quads, and dereferenced in LOD datasets.\n\nThe semantics of programming languages and other languages is an important issue and area of study in computer science. Like the syntax of a language, its semantics can be defined exactly.\n\nFor instance, the following statements use different syntaxes, but cause the same instructions to be executed, namely, perform an arithmetical addition of 'y' to 'x' and store the result in a variable called 'x':\nVarious ways have been developed to describe the semantics of programming languages formally, building on mathematical logic:\n\nThe Semantic Web refers to the extension of the World Wide Web via embedding added semantic metadata, using semantic data modeling techniques such as Resource Description Framework (RDF) and Web Ontology Language (OWL).\nOn the Semantic Web, terms such as \"semantic network\" and \"semantic data model\" are used to describe particular types of data model characterized by the use of directed graphs in which the vertices denote concepts or entities in the world and their properties, and the arcs denote relationships between them. These can formally be described as description logic concepts and roles, which correspond to OWL classes and properties.\n\nIn psychology, \"semantic memory\" is memory for meaning – in other words, the aspect of memory that preserves only the \"gist\", the general significance, of remembered experience – while episodic memory is memory for the ephemeral details – the individual features, or the unique particulars of experience. The term 'episodic memory' was introduced by Tulving and Schacter in the context of 'declarative memory' which involved simple association of factual or objective information concerning its object. Word meaning is measured by the company they keep, i.e. the relationships among words themselves in a semantic network. The memories may be transferred intergenerationally or isolated in one generation due to a cultural disruption. Different generations may have different experiences at similar points in their own time-lines. This may then create a vertically heterogeneous semantic net for certain words in an otherwise homogeneous culture. In a network created by people analyzing their understanding of the word (such as Wordnet) the links and decomposition structures of the network are few in number and kind, and include \"part of\", \"kind of\", and similar links. In automated ontologies the links are computed vectors without explicit meaning. Various automated technologies are being developed to compute the meaning of words: latent semantic indexing and support vector machines as well as natural language processing, artificial neural networks and predicate calculus techniques.\n\nIdeasthesia is a psychological phenomenon in which activation of concepts evokes sensory experiences. For example, in synesthesia, activation of a concept of a letter (e.g., that of the letter \"A\") evokes sensory-like experiences (e.g., of red color).\n\n"}
{"id": "903388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903388", "title": "Social Text", "text": "Social Text\n\nSocial Text is an academic journal published by Duke University Press. Since its inception by an independent editorial collective in 1979, \"Social Text\" has addressed a wide range of social and cultural phenomena, covering questions of gender, sexuality, race, and the environment. Each issue covers subjects in the debates around feminism, Marxism, neoliberalism, postcolonialism, postmodernism, queer theory, and popular culture. The journal has since been run by different collectives over the years, mostly based at New York City universities. It has maintained an avowedly progressive political orientation and scholarship over these years, if also a less and less socialist or Marxist one. Since 1992, it is published by Duke University Press.\n\nThe journal gained notoriety in 1996 for the Sokal affair, when it published a nonsensical article that physicist Alan Sokal had deliberately written as a hoax. The editors of the journal were in 1996 awarded the Ig Nobel Prize for literature by \"eagerly publishing research that they could not understand, that the author said was meaningless, and which claimed that reality does not exist\". At that time, the journal did not practice academic peer review, and it did not submit the article for outside expert review by a physicist.\n\n"}
{"id": "47309058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47309058", "title": "The Life of Henry Brulard", "text": "The Life of Henry Brulard\n\nThe Life of Henry Brulard () is an unfinished autobiography by Stendhal. It was begun on November 23, 1835 and abandoned March 26, 1836 while the author was serving as the French Consul in Civitavecchia. Stendhal had severe doubts about contemporary interest in his autobiography, so he bequeathed it to the reader of 1880, or of 1935, or 2000. The manuscript, including Stendhal's numerous diagrams and illustrations, was published in 1890. Stendhal primariliy discusses his unhappy and dull childhood, touching briefly on his time as a soldier. \"The Life of Henry Brulard\" is considered a masterpiece of autobiographical writing and ironic self-reflection.\n\n\"The Life of Henry Brulard\" begins in 1832, with Stendhal on the Janiculum (named for Janus, the two-faced god of beginnings) looking down at Rome. He begins questioning his accomplishments as he approaches 50 years of age. He reflects on the churches and monuments of the city and how much they have changed since he was a young man. He heads home through a cold mist at night and decides he will reflect upon his past until its truth emerges. He also decides to write as fast as he can without revising, to avoid lies. He believes a quickly-written rough draft would, like automatic writing, disclose the truth about himself. Stendhal explicitly compares himself with Rousseau and calls \"The Life of Henry Brulard\" his own \"Confessions\". In reality, Stendhal was 52 years old when he began the memoir and the first scene is a small fiction. The first chapter was written in two days in November 1835, and Stendhal also claims that \"The Life of Henry Brulard\" is an imitation of Oliver Goldsmith's novel \"The Vicar of Wakefield\". \n\nStendhal notes at the start that other men's biographies naturally focus on their public career. Stendhal himself campaigned with Napoleon in Russia and became consul at Civitavecchia. But Stendhal asserts that his real life can be found in a list of names: Virginie, Angela, Adele, Melanie, Mina, Alexandrine, Angelina, Metilde, Clementine, Giulia, Madame Azur, Amalia. Stendhal says that none of these women ever honored him with her favors and, despite others who did, the “habitual condition of my life is that of an unhappy lover.”\n\nStendhal forthrightly admits to wanting to sleep with his mother, who died when he was seven. While discussing his childhood in Grenoble, Stendhal describes how Eighteenth-century French society habitually crushed his natural feelings. He often compares his father to a tyrant or king, on slender pretenses: young Henry is not allowed to play with other kids, not allowed to leave home at age 10, and must accompany his father on walks. Stendhal's descriptions of scenes from his youth often provoke present-moment commentaries, blurring together the feelings of a young boy and the reflections of a middle-aged man. \n\nStendhal only found happiness when he crossed the Alps into Italy as a 17-year-old in Napoleon's army. Stendhal describes the first time in his life that he mounted a horse, which went berserk and ran towards the willows on the shore of Lake Geneva. For a quarter of an hour he was in fear of breaking his neck. This became a favorite motif of Stendhal's; the heroes of \"The Red and the Black\", \"Lucien Leuwen\", and \"The Charterhouse of Parma\" all fall off their horses. Stendhal loved Italy, which he considered a land where his truest self could be freely expressive without fear of reprisals. \"The Life of Henry Brulard\" ends with the beginning Stendhal's love for Italy and his mistress Angela Pietragrua, countess Simonetta. Stendhal asks, \"How can I talk reasonably about those times? I prefer to put it off until another day...What does one do? How does one describe one's wildest happiness?\" Stendhal ends the work by saying, \"One spoils such tender feelings by recounting them in detail.\"\n"}
{"id": "2704214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2704214", "title": "Winifred Brunton", "text": "Winifred Brunton\n\nWinifred Mabel Brunton \"née Newberry\" (6 May 1880 – 29 January 1959) was a South African painter, illustrator and Egyptologist.\n\nBrunton was born in 1880 in the Orange Free State South Africa. Her father, Charles Newberry, a millionaire who made his money in Kimberly, was the builder of Prynnsberg Estate. Her mother Elizabeth was the daughter of a missionary to Moshoeshoe I and was herself intensely artistic. Winifred was presented at court in 1898 in London when she presumably met Guy Brunton, an Egyptologist who later became her husband.\n\nThey built the house in Berea, Johannesburg, in 1906, the same year they were married. She became best known for her portraits of Egyptian pharaohs, published as \"Kings and Queens of Ancient Egypt\" (1926) and \"Great Ones of Ancient Egypt\" (1929). She married Egyptologist Guy Brunton on 28 April 1906 and together they studied at University College London, during which time she painted a portrait of Flinders Petrie in 1912, which is now in the collection of UCL Art Collection. At UCL they trained with Margaret Murray, before travelling to Lahun in Egypt to join Flinders Petrie for fieldwork in 1912-14. Working with her husband on the archaeological digs, she studied the evidence of the various painting, sculptures and even the mummies to develop her final portraits. Guy and Winifred both continued to contribute to excavations organised by Flinders Petrie's British School of Archaeology in Egypt in the 1920s at sites like Badari, with Winifred drawing many of the objects discovered. Brunton died, aged 78, in Clocolan, Free State, South Africa.\n\nHer portraits have been hugely influential and defined the faces of the Pharaohs and the Queens in Popular culture and have been adopted in many films and documentaries.\n\n1926. \"Kings and Queens of Ancient Egypt. Portraits by Winifred Brunton. History by Eminent Egyptologists\". London.\n\n1929. \"Great Ones of Ancient Egypt. Portraits by Winifred Brunton. Historical Studies by various Egyptologists\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56170281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56170281", "title": "Zihar", "text": "Zihar\n\nZihar () is a term used in Islamic Jurisprudence, which literally means “you are like my mother”. It is a form of divorce (though invalid) and if a husband says these words to his wife, it is not lawful for him to have intercourse with her unless he recompense by freeing a slave or fasting for two successive months or feeding sixty poor people.\n\nZihar was accepted as a declaration of divorce among pagan Arabs and it is mentioned in the Quran in reference to Khawla bint Tha'labah, who was divorced by this formula in the chapter 58, verses 1-4:\n\nZihar is illegal and considered an insult in the Islamic law. It implies that the man, declaring his wife akin to his mother or sister, is guilty of the sin of forbidding the lawful things. It has been proscribed by law and the act does not ensue in divorce. It is detested and condemned in the law. Thus, penalties in the form of setting free a slave, fasting, or feeding the poor people have been imposed.\n"}
