{"id": "26878349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26878349", "title": "2002 Raliul Brasovului", "text": "2002 Raliul Brasovului\n\nThe 2002 Raliul Brasovului was the first round of the Romanian Rally Championship. It took place between March 22–24, 2002. The Rally consisted of 12 special stages.\n"}
{"id": "52311789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52311789", "title": "2019 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships", "text": "2019 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships\n\nThe 2019 IIHF World Junior Championship (\"2019 WJHC\") will be the 43rd Ice Hockey World Junior Championship. It will begin on December 26, 2018, and will end with the gold medal game being played on January 5, 2019. This will mark the 13th time that Canada has hosted the IHWJC.\n\nOn December 1, 2016, it was announced that Vancouver and Victoria, British Columbia had won the bid to host the 2019 World Juniors. It will be the second time that Vancouver has been the primary host of the tournament and the first time that Victoria has hosted in any capacity.\n\nThe Group A tournament will be held in Füssen, Germany from 9 to 15 December 2018.\n\nThe Group B tournament will be held in Tychy, Poland from 8 to 14 December 2018.\n\nThe Group A tournament will be held in Tallinn, Estonia from 13 to 19 January 2019.\n\nThe Group B tournament will be held in Zagreb, Croatia from 14 to 20 January 2019.\n\nThe tournament will be held in Reykjavik, Iceland from 14 to 20 January 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "17296518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17296518", "title": "7 O'Clock News/Silent Night", "text": "7 O'Clock News/Silent Night\n\n\"7 O'Clock News/Silent Night\" is a song by American music duo Simon & Garfunkel from their third studio album, \"Parsley, Sage, Rosemary and Thyme\" (1966). The track is sound collage juxtaposing a rendition of the Christmas carol \"Silent Night\" with a simulated \"7 O'Clock News\" bulletin of the actual events of August 3, 1966.\n\nThe track is a sound collage and simply constructed: it consists of the duo singing \"Silent Night\" two-part harmony over an arpeggiated piano section. The voice of the newscaster is that of Charlie O'Donnell, then a radio disc jockey. As the track progresses, the news report assumes a greater presence through an increase in volume. \"The result rather bluntly makes an ironic commentary on various social ills by juxtaposing them with tenderly expressed Christmas sentiments.\" The mix on the track purposefully clashes with the piano accompaniment mixed solely to the left channel and the news solely to the right channel while vocals remain in the middle.\n\nThe following events are reported in the order given:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1243011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1243011", "title": "Abkhaz–Georgian conflict", "text": "Abkhaz–Georgian conflict\n\nThe Abkhaz–Georgian conflict involves ethnic conflict between Georgians and the Abkhaz people in Abkhazia, a \"de facto\" independent, partially recognized republic. In a broader sense, one can view the Georgian–Abkhaz conflict as part of a geopolitical conflict in the Caucasus region, intensified at the end of the 20th century with the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nThe conflict, one of the bloodiest in the post-Soviet area, remains unresolved. The Georgian government has offered substantial autonomy to Abkhazia several times. However, both the Abkhaz government and the opposition in Abkhazia refuse any form of union with Georgia. Abkhaz regard their independence as the result of a war of liberation from Georgia, while Georgians believe that historically Abkhazia has always formed part of Georgia. Georgians formed the single largest ethnic group in pre-war Abkhazia, with a 45.7% plurality as of 1989 but most Georgians left in Abkhazia want to remain independent of Georgia. Many accuse the government of Eduard Shevardnadze (in office 1992-2003) of the initiation of senseless hostilities, and then of ineffective conduct of the war and post-war diplomacy. During the war the Abkhaz separatist side carried out an ethnic cleansing campaign which resulted in the expulsion of up to 250,000 ethnic Georgians and in the killing of more than 15,000. The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) conventions of Lisbon, Budapest and Istanbul have officially recognized the ethnic cleansing of Georgians, which UN General Assembly Resolution GA/10708 also mentions. The UN Security Council has passed a series of resolutions in which it appeals for a cease-fire.\n\nBoth Abkhazia and Georgia were annexed into the Russian Empire in the nineteenth century, and remained part of it until the Russian Revolutions of 1917. While Georgia initially joined the Transcaucasian Democratic Federative Republic and subsequently became independent as the Democratic Republic of Georgia (DRG) in 1918, Abkhazia was initially controlled by a group of Bolsheviks, before ultimately joining the DRG, though its status was never clarified. In 1921 the Red Army invaded Abkhazia and Georgia, eventually incorporating them into the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic. Initially Abkhazia was formed as an independent Soviet republic, the Socialist Soviet Republic of Abkhazia (SSR Abkhazia), though it was united with the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic by a treaty; in 1931 the SSR Abkhazia was downgraded to an autonomous republic within the Georgian SSR, to much opposition from the Abkhaz.\n\nThroughout the Soviet era the Abkhazians called for their quasi-independent status to be restored. Demonstrations in support of this occurred in 1931 immediately after the dissolution of the SSR Abkhazia, and again in 1957, 1967, 1978, and 1989. In 1978, 130 representatives of the Abkhaz intelligentia signed a letter to the Soviet leadership, protesting against what they saw as Georgianization of Abkhazia.\n\nThe conflict involved a war in Abkhazia, which lasted for 13 months, beginning in August, 1992, with Georgian government forces and a militia composed of ethnic Georgians who lived in Abkhazia and Russian-backed separatist forces consisting of ethnic Abkhazians, Armenians and Russians who also lived in Abkhazia. The separatists were supported by the North Caucasian and Cossack militants and (unofficially) by Russian forces stationed in Gudauta. The conflict resulted in an agreement in Sochi to cease hostilities, however, this would not last.\n\nIn April–May 1998, the conflict escalated once again in the Gali District when several hundred Abkhaz forces entered the villages still populated by Georgians to support the separatist-held parliamentary elections. Despite criticism from the opposition, Eduard Shevardnadze, President of Georgia, refused to deploy troops against Abkhazia. A ceasefire was negotiated on May 20. The hostilities resulted in hundreds of casualties from both sides and an additional 20,000 Georgian refugees.\n\nIn September 2001, around 400 Chechen fighters and 80 Georgian guerrillas appeared in the Kodori Valley in extremely controversial conditions. The Chechen-Georgian paramilitaries advanced as far as Sukhumi, but finally were repelled by Abkhaz and Gudauta based Russian peacekeepers.\n\nThe new Georgian government of President Mikheil Saakashvili promised not to use force and to resolve the problem only by diplomacy and political talks.\n\nWhile at a Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) summit it was decided to exclude any contact with separatists; the trans-border economic cooperation and transport between Abkhazia and Russia grows in scale, with Russia claiming that all this is a matter of private business, rather than state. Georgia also decries the unlimited issuing of Russian passports in Abkhazia with subsequent payment of retirement pensions and other monetary benefits by Russia, which Georgia considers to be economic support of separatists by the Russian government.\n\nIn May 2006 the Coordinating Council of Georgia’s Government and Abkhaz separatists was convened for the first time since 2001. In late July the 2006 Kodori crisis erupted, resulting in the establishment of the de jure Government of Abkhazia in Kodori. For the first time after the war, this government is located in Abkhazia, and is headed by Malkhaz Akishbaia, Temur Mzhavia and Ada Marshania.\n\nCurrently, the Abkhaz side demands reparations from the Georgian side of $13 billion in US currency for damages in this conflict. The Georgian side dismisses these claims. On May 15, 2008 United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution recognising the right of all refugees (including victims of reported “ethnic cleansing”) to return to Abkhazia and their property rights. It \"regretted\" the attempts to alter pre-war demographic composition and called for the \"rapid development of a timetable to ensure the prompt voluntary return of all refugees and internally displaced persons to their homes.\"\n\nOn July 9, 2012, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly passed a resolution at its annual session in Monaco, underlining Georgia’s territorial integrity and referring to breakaway Abkhazia and South Ossetia as “occupied territories”. The resolution “urges the Government and the Parliament of the Russian Federation, as well as the de facto authorities of Abkhazia, Georgia and South Ossetia, Georgia, to allow the European Union Monitoring Mission unimpeded access to the occupied territories.” It also says that the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is “concerned about the humanitarian situation of the displaced persons both in Georgia and in the occupied territories of Abkhazia, Georgia and South Ossetia, Georgia, as well as the denial of the right of return to their places of living.” The Assembly is the parliamentary dimension of the OSCE with 320 lawmakers from the organization’s 56 participating states, including Russia.\n\nOn August 10, 2008, the Russo-Georgian War spread to Abkhazia, where separatist rebels and the Russian air force launched an all-out attack on Georgian forces. Abkhazia's pro-Moscow separatist President Sergei Bagapsh said that his troops had launched a major \"military operation\" to force Georgian troops out of the Kodori Gorge, which they still controlled. As a result of this attack, Georgian troops were driven out of Abkhazia entirely.\n\nOn August 26, 2008, the Russian Federation officially recognized both South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent states.\n\nIn response to Russia's recognition of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, the Georgian government announced that the country cut all diplomatic relations with Russia and that it left the Commonwealth of Independent States.\n\nRelations between Georgia and Abkhazia have remained tense after the war. Georgia has moved to increase Abkhazia's isolation by imposing a sea blockade of Abkhazia. During the opening ceremony of a new building of the Georgian Embassy in Kiev (Ukraine) in November 2009 Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili stated that residents of South Ossetia and Abkhazia could also use its facilities \"I would like to assure you, my dear friends, that this is your home, as well, and here you will always be able to find support and understanding\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48509399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48509399", "title": "Abu Muhammad al-Sufyani", "text": "Abu Muhammad al-Sufyani\n\nZiyad ibn Abdullah ibn Yazid ibn Mu'awiyah, commonly known as Abu Muhammad al-Sufyani, was an Umayyad nobleman and a pretender to the Umayyad Caliphate, which had been overthrown by the Abbasid Caliphate in early 750. Abu Muhammad led a revolt against the Abbasids, but his forces were defeated and he fled to Arabia, where he was killed in the early part of the Abbasid Caliph al-Mansur's reign.\n\nAbu Muhammad was a member of the Umayyad family, related to Caliph al-Walid II ( 743–744) through the latter's grandmother. He adopted the name \"al-Sufyani\" as both a reference to his descent from Mu'awiyah ibn Abi Sufyan and a claim to being the early Islamic messianic figure, al-Sufyani. Abu Muhammad's messianic claim was embraced by many in Islamic Syria, particularly the people of Homs, who believed him to be a messiah-like figure who would destroy the rising Abbasid Caliphate. Umayyad Caliph Marwan II (r. 744–750) had Abu Muhammad imprisoned in Harran for much of the second half of his reign. Abu Muhammad did not escape his incarceration when other inmates broke out; those inmates who did were caught and killed by Harran's inhabitants. Marwan released Abu Muhammad after his defeat by the Abbasids at the Battle of the Zab in January 750.\n\nLater in 750, the Qaysi general, Abu al-Ward, launched a revolt to defeat the Abbasids, rallying his kinsmen and other Qaysis and disavowing his allegiance to the Abbasid governor of Syria, Abdullah ibn Ali. Abu Muhammad joined the revolt as a leader of the Yamani tribal confederation of Homs and Palmyra. Abu Muhammad assumed political leadership of the revolt and issued a claim to leadership of the Umayyad Caliphate, reaching out for support from other Umayyad nobles. Abu al-Ward, meanwhile, served as the revolt's military commander. Although the intent of the revolt was to combat the Abbasids, particularly their Khorasani soldiers, it became a joint Qaysi–Yamani effort to gain control of the Umayyad Caliphate.\nDespite an initial victory against the Abbasids led by Abd al-Samad ibn Ali at Qinnasrin, Abu Muhammad's forces were defeated near Homs. In the latter battle, Abu al-Ward and many of his kinsmen and Qaysi soldiers were killed, while Abu Muhammad fled to the desert town of Palmyra. The Abbasid commander Bassam ibn Ibrahim attempted and failed to capture Palmyra, but Abu Muhammad fled again, this time heading for Arabia. There, he found a safe haven near Uhud. Abu Muhammad and his family remained in Arabia until they were tracked down and killed during Caliph al-Mansur's reign (r. 754–775). Abu Muhammad's revolt, although short-lived, was the most significant threat the Abbasids faced in the period immediately following their successful revolution against the Umayyads. The revolt motivated the Abbasids to track down and eliminate other remnants of the Umayyad dynasty.\n\nThe origin, role and identity of the \"Sufyani\" in Islamic tradition and Abu Muhammad's place in it is much debated. In the local Syrian context, the \"Sufyani\" was seen as a deliverer who would herald a golden age. But in Shi'ite tradition, due to his descent from Abu Sufyan—originally an opponent of Muhammad and the father of Mu'awiya, who was responsible for the downfall of Ali—he was an anti-Muslim figure, a sort of Islamic Antichrist and the opponent of the \"Mahdi\". Scholars have debated the roots of this figure, with some claiming the existence of the legend already during Umayyad times. Henri Lammens suggested that Abu Muhammad was the origin of the legend, and that Syrians believed that after his execution he went into hiding—much like the Shi'ite \"Mahdi\"—and would reappear. Wilferd Madelung championed the view that the \"Sufyani\" was from the beginning an anti-\"Mahdi\" figure, and that he only acquired positive connotations in Syria at a later date. Several later rebels in Syria, from Abu Harb al-Mubarqa in the 840s all the way up to the 15th century, claimed the mantle of the \"Sufyani\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29639304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29639304", "title": "Against All Hope", "text": "Against All Hope\n\nAgainst All Hope is a 1982 autobiography drama film about an alcoholic Cecil Moe on the verge of suicide and turns to a local clergy for help. It marked Michael Madsen's film debut.\n\nCecil Moe's (Michael Madsen) life altered when he was thirteen years old. His mother dies and his new stepmother is abusive. She even orders him off his father's farm. During the second world war Cecil enlists in the US navy. His father passes away at the hands of his stepmother. This causes Cecil to drink heavily. It doesn't take long until he is addicted.\n\nCecil soon marries a young woman named Jeane and has a family. However, his drinking causes him to do unthinkable things. His eldest son mistakenly drinks one of his beers, when he carelessly leaves it on the living-room floor. His drinking soon costs him his job, his home, and nearly his family. \n\nOne day Cecil returns home and becomes violent with Jeane. She plans to leave him first thing in the morning. Cecil quickly comes back to reality and seeks help immediately. He goes to a local reverend for guidance. The reverend tells Cecil to ask God for forgiveness. Cecil does and reconciles with Jeane. From that day forward, Cecil never drank and welcomes his new life.\n\nChicago, IL\n\nMichael Madsen continued his acting career, garnering numerous high-profile awards and recognitions, ongoing.\n\nMaureen McCarthy also continued an active career on stage, commercials, and independent films, ongoing.\n\nThe film was released on public domain VHS and DVD since 1985. In 1993, the film used its alternate title \"One for the Road\" in the late 2000s it went back to using its original title.\n\nIn the Spring of 2010 a musical adaptation of \"Against all Hope\" was announced.\n\n"}
{"id": "2017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2017", "title": "Arbor Day", "text": "Arbor Day\n\nArbor Day (or Arbour; from the Latin \"arbor\", meaning \"tree\") is a holiday in which individuals and groups are encouraged to plant trees. Today, many countries observe such a holiday. Though usually observed in the spring, the date varies, depending on climate and suitable planting season.\nThe Spanish village of Mondoñedo held the first documented arbor plantation festival in the world organized by its mayor in 1594. The place remains as Alameda de los Remedios and it is still planted with lime and horse-chestnut trees. A humble granite marker and a bronze plate recall the event. Additionally, the small Spanish village of Villanueva de la Sierra held the first modern Arbor Day, an initiative launched in 1805 by the local priest with the enthusiastic support of the entire population.\n\nThe first American Arbor Day was originated in Nebraska City, Nebraska by J. Sterling Morton. On April 10, 1872, an estimated one million trees were planted in Nebraska.\n\nBirdsey Northrop of Connecticut was responsible for globalizing the idea when he visited Japan in 1883 and delivered his Arbor Day and Village Improvement message. In that same year, the American Forestry Association made Northrop the Chairman of the committee to campaign for Arbor Day nationwide. He also brought his enthusiasm for Arbor Day to Australia, Canada, and Europe.\n\nBeginning in 1906, Pennsylvania conservationist Major Israel McCreight of DuBois, Pennsylvania, argued that President Theodore Roosevelt’s conservation speeches were limited to businessmen in the lumber industry and recommended a campaign of youth education and a national policy on conservation education. McCreight urged Roosevelt to make a public statement to school children about trees and the destruction of American forests. Conservationist Gifford Pinchot, Chief of the United States Forest Service, embraced McCreight’s recommendations and asked the President to speak to the public school children of the United States about conservation. On April 15, 1907, Roosevelt issued an \"Arbor Day Proclamation to the School Children of the United States\" about the importance of trees and that forestry deserves to be taught in U.S. schools. Pinchot wrote McCreight, \"we shall all be indebted to you for having made the suggestion.\"\n\nNational Schools Tree Day is held on the last Friday of July for schools and National Tree Day the last Sunday in July throughout Australia. Many states have Arbor Day although only Victoria has Arbor Week, which was suggested by Premier Dick Hamer in the 1980s. Arbor Day has been observed in Australia since 20 June 1889.\n\nInternational Day of Treeplanting is celebrated in Flanders on or around 21 March as a theme-day/educational-day/observance, not as a public holiday. Tree planting is sometimes combined with awareness campaigns of the fight against cancer: \"Kom Op Tegen Kanker\".\n\nThe Arbor Day (Dia da Árvore) is celebrated on September 21. It is not a national holiday. However, schools nationwide celebrate this day with environment-related activities, namely tree planting.\n\nArbour Day is celebrated on November 22. It is sponsored by the National Parks Trust of the Virgin Islands. Activities include an annual national Arbour Day Poetry Competition and tree planting ceremonies throughout the territory.\n\nCambodia celebrates Arbor Day on July 9 with a tree planting ceremony attended by the king.\n\nThe day was founded by Sir George W. Ross, later the Premier of Ontario, when he was Minister of Education in Ontario (1883-1899). According to the Ontario Teachers' Manuals \"History of Education\" (1915), Ross established both Arbour Day and Empire Day - \"the former to give the school children an interest in making and keeping the school grounds attractive, and the latter to inspire the children with a spirit of patriotism\" (p. 222). This predates the claimed founding of the day by Don Clark of Schomberg, Ontario for his wife Margret Clark in 1906. In Canada, National Forest Week is the last full week of September, and National Tree Day (Maple Leaf Day) falls on the Wednesday of that week. Ontario celebrates Arbour Week from the last Friday in April to the first Sunday in May. Prince Edward Island celebrates Arbour Day on the third Friday in May during Arbour Week. Arbour Day is the longest running civic greening project in Calgary and is celebrated on the first Thursday in May. On this day, each grade 1 student in Calgary's schools receives a tree seedling to be taken home to be planted on private property.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on July 20.\n\nThe Arbor Day () in China was founded by the famous forestry scientist Lin Dao-yang in 1915. From 1916 to 1928, Arbor Day was celebrated on the Chinese Qingming Festival, which is on the first day of the fifth solar term of the traditional Chinese lunisolar calendar. In 1929, the date for Arbor Day was changed to March 12 to commemorate Sun Yat-sen. In 1981, the fourth session of the Fifth National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China adopted the Resolution on the Unfolding of a Nationwide Voluntary Tree-planting Campaign. This resolution established the Arbor Day and stipulated that every able-bodied citizen between the ages of 11 and 60 should plant three to five trees per year or do the equivalent amount of work in seedling, cultivation, tree tending or other services. Supporting documentation instructs all units to report population statistics to the local afforestation committees as the basis for workload allocation. The People's Republic of China celebrates Arbor Day on March 12, continue to use following the date of Arbor Day of Republic of China.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on November 6.\n\n\"Día del Árbol\" is on June 15.\n\n is celebrated on October 20.\n\nArbor Day is on January 15.\n\nArbor Day (\"Tag des Baumes\") is on 25 April. Its first celebration was in 1952.\n\nVan Mahotsav is an annual pan-Indian tree planting festival, occupying a week in the month of July. During this event millions of trees are planted. It was initiated in 1950 by K. M. Munshi, the then Union Minister for Agriculture and Food, to create an enthusiasm in the mind of the populace for the conservation of forests and planting of trees.\n\nThe name Van Mahotsava (the festival of trees) originated in July 1947 after a successful tree-planting drive was undertaken in Delhi, in which national leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru, Dr Rajendra Prasad and Abul Kalam Azad participated. Paryawaran Sachetak Samiti, a leading environmental organization conducts mass events and activities on this special day celebration each year. The week was simultaneously celebrated in a number of states in the country.\n\nIn Iran, it is known as \"National Tree Planting Day\". By the Solar Hijri calendar, it is on the fifteenth day of the month Esfand, which usually corresponds with March 5. This day is the first day of the \"Natural Recyclable Resources Week\" (March 5 to 12).\n\nThis is the time when the saplings of the all kinds in terms of different climates of different parts of Iran are shared among the people. They are also taught how to plant trees.\n\nThe Jewish holiday Tu Bishvat, the new year for trees, is on the 15th day of the month of Shvat, which usually falls in January or February. Originally based on the date used to calculate the age of fruit trees for tithing as mandated in Leviticus 19:23–25, the holiday now is most often observed by planting trees, or raising money to plant trees and by eating fruit, specifically grapes, figs, pomegranates, olives and dates. Tu Bishvat is a semi-official holiday in Israel; schools are open but Hebrew speaking schools often go on tree planting excursions.\n\nJapan celebrates a similarly themed Greenery Day, held on May 4.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on April 21. Often people plant palm trees and coconut trees along the Indian Ocean that borders the east coast of Kenya.\n\nNorth Korea marks \"Tree Planting Day\" on March 2, when people across the country plant trees. This day is considered to combine traditional Asian cultural values with those of the country's dominant Communist ideology.\n\nIn South Korea, April 5, Arbor Day (Sikmogil, 식목일), was a public holiday until 2005. Even though Sikmogil is no longer an official holiday, the day is still celebrated, with the South Korean public continuing to take part in tree-planting activities.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is usually on March 21 depending on the lunar cycle.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on the second Saturday in November.\n\nHaving in mind the bad condition of the forest fund, and in particular the catastrophic wildfires which occurred in the summer of 2007, a citizens' initiative for afforestation was started in the Republic of Macedonia. The campaign by the name 'Tree Day-Plant Your Future' was first organized on 12 March 2008, when an official non-working day was declared and more than 150,000 Macedonians planted 2 million trees in one day (symbolically, one for each citizen). Six million more were planted in November the same year, and another 12,5 million trees in 2009. This has been established as a tradition and takes place every year.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on the 2nd Monday of December.\n\nThe \"Día del Árbol\" was established in Mexico in 1959 with President Adolfo López Mateos issuing a decree that it should be observed on the 2nd Thursday of July.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on the 2nd Saturday of May and October. The first National Tree Planting Day was celebrated on 8 May 2010.\n\nNamibia's first Arbor Day was celebrated on October 8, 2004. It takes place annually on the second Friday of October.\n\nSince conference and of the Food and Agriculture Organization's publication \"World Festival of Trees\", and a resolution of the United Nations in 1954: \"The Conference, recognising the need of arousing mass consciousness of the aesthetic, physical and economic value of trees, recommends a World Festival of Trees to be celebrated annually in each member country on a date suited to local conditions\"; it has been adopted by the Netherlands. In 1957, the National Committee Day of Planting Trees/Foundation of National Festival of Trees (\"Nationale Boomplantdag\"/\"Nationale Boomfeestdag\") was created.\n\nOn the third Wednesday in March each year (near the spring equinox), three quarters of Dutch schoolchildren aged 10/11 and Dutch celebrities plant trees. Stichting Nationale Boomfeestdag organizes all the activities in the Netherlands for this day. Some municipalities however plant the trees around 21 September because of the planting season.\n\nIn 2007, the 50th anniversary was celebrated with special golden jubilee activities.\n\nNew Zealand’s first Arbor Day planting was on 3 July 1890 at Greytown, in the Wairarapa. The first official celebration was scheduled to take place in Wellington in August 2012, with the planting of pohutukawa and Norfolk pines along Thorndon Esplanade.\n\nProminent New Zealand botanist Dr Leonard Cockayne worked extensively on native plants throughout New Zealand and wrote many notable botanical texts. As early as the 1920s he held a vision for school students of New Zealand to be involved in planting native trees and plants in their school grounds. This vision bore fruit and schools in New Zealand have long planted native trees on Arbor Day.\n\nSince 1977, New Zealand has celebrated Arbor Day on June 5, which is also World Environment Day. Prior to then, Arbor Day was celebrated on August 4, which is rather late in the year for tree planting in New Zealand, hence the date change.\n\nMany of the Department of Conservation's Arbor Day activities focus on ecological restoration projects using native plants to restore habitats that have been damaged or destroyed by humans or invasive pests and weeds. There are great restoration projects underway around New Zealand and many organisations including community groups, landowners, conservation organisations, iwi, volunteers, schools, local businesses, nurseries and councils are involved in them. These projects are part of a vision to protect and restore the indigenous biodiversity.\n\nSince 1975, Niger has celebrated Arbor Day as part of its Independence Day: 3 August. On this day, aiding the fight against desertification, each Nigerien plants a tree.\n\nNational tree plantation day of Pakistan (قومی شجر کاری دن) is celebrated on 18 August.\n\nSince 1947, Arbor Day in the Philippines has been institutionalized to be observed throughout the nation by planting trees and ornamental plants and other forms of relevant activities. Its practice was instituted through Proclamation No. 30. It was subsequently revised by Proclamation No. 41, issued in the same year. In 1955, the commemoration was extended from a day to a week and moved to the last full week of July. Over two decades later, its commemoration was moved to the second week of June. In 2003, the commemorations were reduced from a week to a day and was moved to June 25 per Proclamation No. 396. The same proclamation directed \"the active participation of all government agencies, including government-owned and controlled corporations, private sector, schools, civil society groups and the citizenry in tree planting activity\". It was subsequently revised by Proclamation 643 in the succeeding year.\n\nIn 2012, Republic Act 10176 was passed, which revived tree planting events \"as [a] yearly event for local government units\" and mandated the planting of at least one tree per year for able-bodied Filipino citizens aged 12 years old and above. Since 2012, many local arbor day celebrations have been commemorated, as in the cases of Natividad and Tayug in Pangasinan and Santa Rita in Pampanga.\n\nIn Poland, Arbor Day has been celebrated since 2002. Each October 10, many Polish people plant trees as well as participate in events organized by ecological foundations. Moreover, Polish Forest Inspectorates and schools give special lectures and lead ecological awareness campaigns.\n\nArbor Day is celebrated on March 21. It is not a national holiday but instead schools nationwide celebrate this day with environment-related activities, namely tree planting.\n\nAll-Russian day of forest plantation was celebrated for the first time on 14 May 2011. Now it is held in April-May (it depends on the weather in different regions).\n\nArbor Day in Samoa is celebrated on the first Friday in November.\n\nArbor Day was celebrated from 1945 until 2000 in South Africa. After that, the national government extended it to National Arbor Week, which lasts annually from 1–7 September. Two trees, one common and one rare, are highlighted to increase public awareness of indigenous trees, while various \"greening\" activities are undertaken by schools, businesses and other organizations.\n\nIn Spain there is an International Forest Day on 21 March, but a decree in 1915 also brought in an Arbor Day throughout Spain. Each municipality or collective decides the date for its Arbor Day, usually between February and May. In Villanueva de la Sierra (Extremadura), where the first Arbor Day in the world was held in 1805, it is celebrated, as on that occasion, on Tuesday Carnaval. It is a great day in the local festive calendar.\n\nAs an example of commitment to nature, the small town of Pescueza, with only 180 inhabitants, organizes every spring a large plantation of holm oaks, which is called the \"Festivalino\" promoted by city council, several foundations and citizen participation.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on November 15.\n\nArbor Day (植樹節) has been a traditional holiday in the Republic of China since 1927. In 1914, the founder of the agricultural college at Nanking University suggested to the now-defunct Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry that China should imitate the practice in the United States of Arbor Day. The holiday would be held the same day as the Qingming Festival. However, for unknown reasons, the suggestion was not made through the formal process, so nothing came from this original request. After the successful conclusion of the Northern Expedition, the now-defunct Ministry of Agriculture and Minerals formally petitioned the Executive Yuan to establish Arbor Day to commemorate the passing of Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the Father of Modern China. He had been a major advocate of afforestation in his life, because it would increase people's livelihoods. The Executive Yuan approved Arbor Day in the spirit of Dr. Sun that year and has since been celebrated on March 12 for this purpose.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on April 1.\n\nNational Tree Planting Day is on March 24.\n\nFirst mounted in 1975, National Tree Week is a celebration of the start of the winter tree planting season. Around a million trees are planted each year by schools, community organizations and local authorities.\n\nArbor Day was founded in 1872 by J. Sterling Morton in Nebraska City, Nebraska. By the 1920s, each state in the United States had passed public laws that stipulated a certain day to be Arbor Day or \"Arbor and Bird Day\" observance.\n\nNational Arbor Day is celebrated every year on the last Friday in April; it is a civic holiday in Nebraska. Other states have selected their own dates for Arbor Day.\n\nThe customary observance is to plant a tree. On the first Arbor Day, April 10, 1872, an estimated one million trees were planted.\n\nVenezuela recognizes \"Día del Arbol\" (Day of the Tree) on the last Sunday of May.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18261246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18261246", "title": "BMW M1 Procar Championship", "text": "BMW M1 Procar Championship\n\nThe BMW M1 Procar Championship, sometimes known simply as Procar, was a one-make auto racing series created by Jochen Neerpasch, head of BMW Motorsport GmbH, the racing division of automobile manufacturer BMW. The series pitted professional drivers from the Formula One World Championship, World Sportscar Championship, European Touring Car Championship, and other international series against one another using identically modified BMW M1 sports cars.\n\nBilled as an opportunity to see a mix of drivers from various motorsport disciplines, the championship served as support races for various European rounds of the 1979 Formula One season, with Formula One drivers earning automatic entry into the Procar event based on their performance in their Formula One cars. Austrian Niki Lauda won the inaugural championship. In 1980, the series held some events outside of Formula One schedule, and was won by Brazilian Nelson Piquet. BMW chose not to continue the championship in 1981 to concentrate on their entrance into Formula One.\n\nJochen Neerpasch, the head of BMW's Motorsports division, was the first to propose the idea of a one-make championship. The division had started construction of the first sports car for BMW in 1978, the M1, and had planned from the start to enter the new sports car in the World Sportscar Championship in 1979, as well as offering the cars to customers for other series. BMW Motorsport planned to build M1s to meet regulations known as Group 5, but a rule change instituted by the Fédération Internationale du Sport Automobile (FISA) in 1977 altered the requirements for Group 5. The new regulations required a minimum of 400 examples of the M1 to be built to meet Group 4 regulations before the car could be further homologated for the Group 5 category.\n\nDevelopment of the Group 4 racing car was already under way at the time of the regulation change. Neerpasch believed that rather than delaying their racing program until 400 road cars had been built, racing cars could be built at the same time since they too counted toward the 400 example minimum. A one-make series consisting of the M1 racing cars intended for Group 4 was devised by Neerpasch since the racing cars could not yet legally compete elsewhere, while at the same time allowing BMW to develop the race cars through experience.\n\nTo attract drivers to the series, Neerpasch entered into discussions with Max Mosley. Mosley was the head of March Engineering, a constructor which BMW was partnered with in their factory efforts in the European Formula Two Championship. Mosley was at the time a member of the Formula One Constructors Association, and was able to use his position to convince other Formula One constructors to support the use of Neerpasch's one-make series as a support race for European Formula One events. A ruling and organisation body for the series, known as The Procar Association, was set up by BMW and approved by FISA.\n\nWith the Procar Championship announced in spring 1978 at the official unveiling of the M1 road car, Neerpasch and the newly formed Procar Association laid out regulations for the 1979 season. Races were planned for the middle of the Formula One season, when the championship remained in Europe for several months. Practice and qualifying were held on Friday of the race weekend, while the race itself occurred on Saturday. The winner of each race received US $5,000, second place received $3,000, and third place $1,000. Races varied in length, but each lasted for approximately half an hour.\n\nTo attract Formula One drivers to the championship, seats were guaranteed in the Procar races by cars which were entered by the factory BMW team. The five fastest Formula One drivers from Friday practice were assigned to the factory team, and were even guaranteed the first five grid positions for the Procar race, regardless of their qualifying times in the cars. This not only guaranteed Formula One driver participation, but also allowed for a variety of drivers to be seen over the course of the season. However, because the series ran Goodyear tyres, several Formula One drivers were not allowed to compete due to contractual obligations with competing tyre manufacturer Michelin. As Scuderia Ferrari and Renault were selling roadcars themselves, they did not allow their Formula One drivers to participate and implicitly endorse BMW.\n\nOther teams were allowed to participate, assigning a variety of sportscar and touring car drivers as well as Formula One drivers who had not earned spots in the factory cars. Points were awarded to the top ten finishers, starting with 20 points and decreasing down to 15, 12, 10, 8, 6, 4, 3, 2, and finally 1 for the nine remaining drivers. An overall championship was awarded to the driver who had accumulated the most points at the end of the season. A new M1 road car was awarded to the championship winner.\n\nAll cars used in the Procar Championship were built to identical standards, although their origins varied. BS Fabrications constructed five cars for the BMW factory team, while cars for other competitors were constructed by the British Formula Two team Project Four Racing (led by Ron Dennis) and the Italian constructor Osella. The racing cars, designed to meet Group 4 technical regulations, shared only some basics from the M1 road cars.\n\nFor the M1's exterior, simple modifications were made to adapt the car aerodynamically. A deep spoiler was added under the nose of the car, while an adjustable wing was added on two mounts at the rear of the engine cover. The arches for the wheels were extended outward to shroud the wider wheels in the front, and wheels at the rear. The alloy wheels, designed by Campagnolo, featured a central locking nut and mimicked the straked design of the production car's wheels. Inside, the car featured no finishing or luxuries from the road car, only a rollcage for driver protection. The glass windows were replaced with clear plastic.\n\nMechanically, the Procar M1s were extensively modified to meet the requirements of circuit racing. The standard M1 featured the cast iron block BMW M88 straight-6 with displacement. Modified into the M88/1 by a team led by Paul Rosche, it was capable of producing 470 horsepower at 9000 rpm, compared to 277 hp from the standard M1's engine. The 5-speed ZF gearbox housing from the road car was retained, but with multiple gear ratios allowed, as well as its own oil cooler.\n\nThe suspension was entirely new, adding adjustable anti-roll bars. The brakes were redesigned to adapt the use of a driver-adjustable brake pressure balance, while the servo-activated braking system was removed. A racing steering rack was used in place of the standard power steering unit. Pneumatic jacks were later added to the cars in the 1980 season to allow for quicker pit stops. Goodyear racing tires were used on all cars. All other non-essential items from the road car were not included, bringing the Procar M1's weight down to . The performance of the Procar M1s was increased to a top speed of dependent upon gear ratios, and acceleration from 0– in 4.3 seconds. Each Procar M1 cost approximately US $60,000.\n\nAn announced schedule for the inaugural season of the Procar Championship featured events taking place from May to September, when the Formula One World Championship ran eight consecutive Grands Prix in Europe. A ninth event was scheduled at Donington Park as part of the Gunnar Nilsson Memorial Trophy, a charity event for the Gunnar Nilsson Cancer Fund, although it did not award points towards the overall championship.\n\nDifferent Formula One drivers earned spots on the factory team over the season based on their performance in Formula One practice. These included Mario Andretti, Patrick Depailler, Emerson Fittipaldi, James Hunt, Jean-Pierre Jarier, Alan Jones, Jacques Laffite, Niki Lauda, Nelson Piquet, Didier Pironi, Clay Regazzoni, and John Watson. Teo Fabi, Tiff Needell, Hans-Georg Bürger and Michael Bleekemolen were invited to drive in the factory BMW cars as well although they were not Formula One drivers at the time.\n\nAs well as the standard five car entry from BMW, several other notable teams participated. Procar constructor Project Four entered a car for Niki Lauda when he was not in the factory entries, while Osella entered cars for a rotating driver line-up. Touring car teams Tom Walkinshaw Racing, Eggenberger Racing, Ecurie Arvor, and Schnitzer Motorsport entered cars, as did Team Konrad and GS Tuning from sports cars.\n\nThe following are the ten highest finishing drivers in the points standings. Niki Lauda won the inaugural championship, initially earning a spot in the factory BMW team in the first round, before running the remaining seven races for Project Four.\n\nFor the second running of the Procar Championship, the schedule was altered and expanded so that the races did not rely exclusively on Formula One events. This allowed the season to start slightly earlier, this time in April. Donington Park was retained from the previous year but now counted towards the championship. Two German events were added, with the Procar Championship designated as that year's Avusrennen at the AVUS circuit, and the Procars serving as a support race for the Deutsche Rennsport Meisterschaft's 200 Miles of Norisring.<ref name=\"http://theracingline.net/racingcircuits/racingcircuits/_series/gt_bmw-procar/index.html\"></ref> Six Formula One Grands Prix remained on the schedule.\n\nUnlike the previous year where the fastest drivers in practice earned seats with the factory BMW team, five drivers were designated as the primary drivers for events which did not share a Grand Prix weekend. These five were Alan Jones, Jacques Laffite, Nelson Piquet, Didier Pironi, and Carlos Reutemann. Other Formula One drivers to participate during Grands Prix were Mario Andretti, Derek Daly, Jean-Pierre Jarier, Riccardo Patrese, and Alain Prost.\n\nSeveral teams from the previous year entered once more, including Project Four, GS Tuning, Eggenberger Racing, Cassani Racing, and Schnitzer Motorsport. Newcomers included personal teams from Arturo Merzario, Dieter Quester, and Helmut Marko, as well as Swiss sportscar manufacturer Sauber.\n\nThe following are the ten highest finishing drivers in the points standings. Nelson Piquet won the championship, aided by three consecutive wins to finish the year.\n\nAt the start of the 1980 season, BMW announced their intention to enter Formula One as an engine supplier for Brabham. The deal came in part due to Bernie Ecclestone, then head of Brabham, as well as the head of BS Fabrications, who had built several of the Procar M1s. BMW planned to enter the series in 1982, and BMW Motorsport was tasked with concentrating their efforts on the new Formula One engines instead of the Procar series.\n\nThat same year, BMW officially met FISA's requirements by having built approximately 400 cars. The M1 was therefore homologated for Group 4 on December 1, 1980, allowing BMW to enter the Championship for Makes in 1981. As BMW shifted towards Formula One, the company ended their plans to enter the Group 5 category after the construction of only two race cars. With BMW no longer needing to quickly build race cars, and with BMW Motorsport shifting to Formula One work, the series was not held in 1981. The M1s used in the Procar series were sold to various customers for use in the World Championship, as well as smaller series such as the Deutsche Rennsport Meisterschaft and Camel GT Championship.\n\nIn 1988, Motor Racing Developments, the owners of the Brabham Formula One Team, were sold to Alfa Romeo. Wishing to revive the Procar series, Brabham and Alfa Romeo developed a prototype racing car using a mid-mounted Formula One-based V10 engine, covered in a bodywork silhouette mimicking the Alfa Romeo 164. Alfa Romeo intended to use identical copies of the car for a resurrected Procar series, but the plans never came to fruition and only the prototype was built.\n\nOn June 30, 2008, BMW announced plans to revive the Procar series in an exhibition event at the 2008 German Grand Prix at the Hockenheimring. The races involved ten original M1 Procars driven by several drivers who had participated in the original series as well as modern drivers. Each car included a passenger seat for a guest. The line-up included former competitors Christian Danner, Harald Grohs, Niki Lauda, Dieter Quester, and Marc Surer. Former BMW driver Prince Leopold of Bavaria, BMW Sauber test driver Christian Klien, and a current M1 Procar owner, Marco Wagner, also competed. The BMW M1 Art Car designed by Andy Warhol was involved, driven by series founder Jochen Neerpasch and with fellow Art Car artist Frank Stella as his passenger.\n\nLauda won the first race held on Saturday, July 19, while Neerpasch was able to win the race held on Sunday, July 20, the morning of the Grand Prix.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21311350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21311350", "title": "Barbie and the Sensations: Rockin' Back to Earth", "text": "Barbie and the Sensations: Rockin' Back to Earth\n\nBarbie and the Sensations: Rockin' Back to Earth is a 1987 American animated television special and the sequel to \"\". The two specials were released together on video by Hi-Tops Video.\n\nFollowing their concert for world peace in outer space, Barbie and her band the Rockers are going back home. During the trip back to Earth, the band's space shuttle inadvertently enters a time warp. Upon landing at an airport, they meet Dr. Merrishaw and his daughter Kim, and soon learn that they have been transported back to 1959. The band then decides to go on a tour around the city alongside Kim, performing at several spots. After a performance at Cape Canaveral, Dr. Merrishaw helps Barbie and the Rockers return to their time. Back in the present, they stage a big concert in New York City, where Barbie is reunited with an adult Kim and introduced to her daughter Megan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18671540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18671540", "title": "Beaux-Arts Ball", "text": "Beaux-Arts Ball\n\nThe Beaux Arts Ball (in French the Bal des Quatres Arts) is the annual costume ball traditionally given by the students of the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris in the spring, in the École building on the rue Bonaparte overlooking the Seine. Elaborately allegorical floats circled the room at midnight and were judged by a panel. \"It is a riot, a revival of paganism, known elsewhere only in Italy. It is also, in its way, a hymn to beauty, a living explosion of the senses and the emotions,\" wrote E. Berry Wall in \"Neither Pest Nor Puritan.\" Its reputation for fabulously designed nudity, \"louche\" antics, cross-dressing and high style encouraged imitators in American cities. In 1931, in New York, famous architects dressed up as their buildings and today, many American architecture schools hold similar costume balls.\n\nReference to the Beaux-Arts Ball is made in the verse of the popular Rodgers and Hart song \"The Lady Is A Tramp\" from \"Babes in Arms\" (1937). \n"}
{"id": "17215522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17215522", "title": "Bernardo Bellincioni", "text": "Bernardo Bellincioni\n\nBernardo Bellincioni (1452–1492) was an Italian poet, who began his career in the court of Lorenzo the Magnificent in Florence. In 1483 he was at the Gonzaga court and in 1485 he moved to Milan, where he was the court poet of Ludovico Sforza, the patron of Leonardo da Vinci. He wrote eulogistic sonnets addressed to his patrons and engaged in the usual literary squabbles with other poets, some in the burlesque manner established by Domenico Burchiello, that are a characteristic of the Italian Renaissance.\n\nBellincioni's occasional verse provided the literary clues to elaborate allegorical masques and state entries that were highlights of Early Modern court life. On the occasion of the marriage of the heir of Milan Gian Galeazzo Sforza to his cousin Isabella of Aragon, daughter of the King of Naples, Apollo presented the poems that had accompanied the tableaux in a little book (\"libretto\") of fine calligraphy to the nineteen-year-old Isabella.\n\nHe composed an effusive ode to Cecilia Gallerani, the \"Lady with an Ermine\" in her portrait by Leonardo, \"the envy of Nature\", which has permitted the identification of the sitter: \"She seems to listen and not talk.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18115272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18115272", "title": "Camden Festival", "text": "Camden Festival\n\nCamden Festival was an annual spring festival founded in 1954 and held in London, England. Originally, it was named the St Pancras Festival until 1965. It continued until 1987.\n\nThe festival specialised in the revival of long-forgotten operas, some of which subsequently made their way back into the repertory. Performances were given at St Pancras Town Hall until 1969, and thereafter at the Bloomsbury Theatre (formerly Collegiate Theatre). \n\nAmong now well-known singers who appeared in the Festival was the young Kiri Te Kanawa who sang Elena in Rossini's \"La donna del lago\" in 1969 prior to joining the Covent Garden Opera in 1970.\n\nThe Camden Festival was superseded by the Bloomsbury Festival in 1988. Today, the festival consists of a very broad range of cultural events, as evidenced by its 2013 program, and opera appears as only a very small part of its programming. \n"}
{"id": "766574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766574", "title": "Chronovisor", "text": "Chronovisor\n\nThe chronovisor was allegedly a functional time viewer described by Father François Brune in his 2002 book \"Le nouveau mystère du Vatican\" (\"The Vatican’s New Mystery\"). Brune is the author of several books on the paranormal and religion.\n\nIn the book, Brune relates that the chronovisor was built by Pellegrino Ernetti (1925–1994), an Italian priest and scientist. Although Ernetti was a real person, the existence or functionality of the chronovisor has never been confirmed; its alleged capabilities are strongly reminiscent of the fictional time viewer which features in T. L. Sherred's 1947 science fiction novella, \"E for Effort\".\n\nIn the early 1960s, Ernetti began to study the writings of François Brune, himself a Roman Catholic priest and author. Ernetti allegedly ended up helping Brune construct the machine as members of a team which included twelve world-famous scientists. He identified two of them as Enrico Fermi and Wernher von Braun. The chronovisor was described as a large cabinet with a cathode ray tube for viewing the received events and a series of buttons, levers, and other controls for selecting the time and the location to be viewed. It could also locate and track specific individuals. According to its inventor, it worked by receiving, decoding and reproducing the electromagnetic radiation left behind from past events. It could also pick up the audio component or sound waves emitted by these same events. \n\nErnetti lacked hard evidence for these claims. He said that he had observed, among other historical events, Christ's crucifixion and photographed it as well. A copy of this image, Ernetti said, appeared in the 2 May 1972 issue of \"La Domenica del Corriere\", an Italian weekly news magazine. A near-identical (mirror-image) photograph, however, of a wood carving by the sculptor Lorenzo Coullaut Valera turned up and succeeded in casting doubt upon Ernetti's statement.\n\nUsing the chronovisor, Ernetti said that he had witnessed, among other scenes, a performance in Rome in 169 BC of the lost tragedy, \"Thyestes\", by the father of Latin poetry, Quintus Ennius. Dr. Katherine Eldred of Princeton University is the author of an English rendition of the text which is included as an appendix to the U.S. printing of Peter Krassa's book on the Chronovisor (see below). Eldred believes that Ernetti actually wrote the supposedly ancient play himself. As provided by an anonymous relative of Father Ernetti, there was a deathbed confession, included in the U.S. edition of the play, that Ernetti had written the text of the play himself and that the \"photo\" of Christ was indeed a \"lie\". According to the same \"source\", however, Ernetti also affirmed that the machine was genuinely functional.\n\nBrune, however, does not believe Ernetti's \"confession\" and is convinced that the authorities had coerced Ernetti into making a false confession. \n\nThe alleged existence of the chronovisor has fueled a whole series of conspiracy theories, such as that the device was seized and is actually used by the Vatican or by those who secretly control governments and their economies all around the world.\n"}
{"id": "44067812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44067812", "title": "Classic Gaming Expo", "text": "Classic Gaming Expo\n\nClassic Gaming Expo was a gaming convention dedicated to the people, systems and games of yesteryear, with an emphasis on historic video games. The Expo was founded in 1999 by John Hardie, Sean Kelly and Keita Iida, In 2000, Joe Santulli replaced Iida as the show's co-organizer.\n\nThe conventions have typically been held in the Las Vegas Valley, Nevada, but have sometimes been held in Silicon Valley.\n\nIn addition to the expo, Kelly, Hardie and Santulli founded the Videogame History Museum, a traveling museum of classic video games and equipment that on display at events like E3 (Electronic Entertainment Expo) and GDC (Game Developers Conference). In April 2016. the traveling museum celebrated the building of a permanent facility known as the National Videogame Museum National Videogame Museum in Frisco, Texas. Currently, one of the founding members, John Hardie. is the residing curator onsite. \n\nIn October 1995, videogame collectors John Hardie, Keita Iida and Mike Etler, founded NAVA (North Atlantic Videogame Aficionados), at Etler's Howell, NJ videogame store, Video Game Connections. The purpose of the quarterly event was to provide a meeting place where videogame collectors could get together and discuss videogame collecting as well as a place to buy, sell and trade games. The group was a hit and attracted videogame collectors from all around the Northeast from Canada to South Carolina.\n\nIn 1998 Hardie and Iida decided to bring NAVA to the national level. They teamed up with Richard Tsukiji to include classic gaming memorabilia to Tsukiji's annual World of Atari show. The show was held in Las Vegas at the Holiday Inn Boardwalk Hotel and Casino on August 21–23, 1998. The event was such a success that Hardie and Iida decided to break away from World of Atari and, along with Sean Kelly, created their own show, Classic Gaming Expo.\n\nClassic Gaming Expo has been held at the following dates and places:\n"}
{"id": "4022115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4022115", "title": "Croatian War of Independence", "text": "Croatian War of Independence\n\nThe Croatian War of Independence was fought from 1991 to 1995 between Croat forces loyal to the government of Croatia—which had declared independence from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY)—and the Serb-controlled Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) and local Serb forces, with the JNA ending its combat operations in Croatia by 1992. In Croatia, the war is primarily referred to as the \"Homeland War\" (') and also as the \"Greater-Serbian Aggression\" ('). In Serbian sources, \"War in Croatia\" (Рат у Хрватској / \"Rat u Hrvatskoj\") and \"War in Krajina\" (Рат у Крајини / \"Rat u Krajini\") are used.\n\nA majority of Croats wanted Croatia to leave Yugoslavia and become a sovereign country, while many ethnic Serbs living in Croatia, supported by Serbia, opposed the secession and wanted Serb-claimed lands to be in a common state with Serbia. Most Serbs effectively sought a new Serb state within a Yugoslav federation, including areas of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina with ethnic Serb majorities or significant minorities, and attempted to conquer as much of Croatia as possible. Croatia declared independence on 25 June 1991, but agreed to postpone it with the Brioni Agreement and cut all remaining ties with Yugoslavia on 8 October 1991.\n\nThe JNA initially tried to keep Croatia within Yugoslavia by occupying all of Croatia. After this failed, Serb forces established the self-proclaimed Republic of Serbian Krajina (RSK) within Croatia. After the ceasefire of January 1992 and international recognition of the Republic of Croatia as a sovereign state, the front lines were entrenched, the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) was deployed, and combat became largely intermittent in the following three years. During that time, the RSK encompassed , more than a quarter of Croatia. In 1995, Croatia launched two major offensives known as Operation Flash and Operation Storm, which would effectively end the war in its favor. The remaining United Nations Transitional Authority for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES) zone was peacefully reintegrated into Croatia by 1998.\n\nThe war ended with Croatian victory, as it achieved the goals it had declared at the beginning of the war: independence and preservation of its borders. Approximately 21–25% of Croatia's economy was ruined, with an estimated US$37 billion in damaged infrastructure, lost output, and refugee-related costs. Over 20,000 people were killed in the war, and refugees were displaced on both sides. The Serb and Croatian governments began to progressively cooperate with each other but tensions remain, in part due to verdicts by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and lawsuits filed by each country against the other.\n\nIn 2007, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) returned a guilty verdict against Milan Martić, one of the Serb leaders in Croatia, for having colluded with Slobodan Milošević and others to create a \"unified Serbian state\". Between 2008 and 2012, the ICTY had prosecuted Croatian generals Ante Gotovina, Mladen Markač and Ivan Čermak for alleged involvement in the crimes related to Operation Storm. Čermak was acquitted outright, and the convictions of Gotovina and Markač were later overturned by an ICTY Appeals Panel. The International Court of Justice dismissed mutual claims of genocide by Croatia and Serbia in 2015. The Court reaffirmed that to an extent, crimes against civilians had taken place, but ruled that specific genocidal intent was not present.\n\nSince the 1970s, Yugoslavia's Communist regime became severely splintered into a liberal-decentralist nationalist faction led by Croatia and Slovenia that supported a decentralized federation to give greater autonomy to Croatia and Slovenia, versus a conservative-centralist nationalist faction led by Serbia that supported a centralized federation to secure Serbia's and the Serbs' interests across Yugoslavia – as they were the largest ethnic group in the country as a whole. From 1967 to 1972 in Croatia and 1968 and 1981 protests in Kosovo, nationalist doctrines and actions caused ethnic tensions that destabilized Yugoslavia. The suppression by the state of nationalists is believed to have had the effect of identifying Croat nationalism as the primary alternative to communism itself and made it a strong underground movement.\n\nA crisis emerged in Yugoslavia with the weakening of the Communist states in Eastern Europe towards the end of the Cold War, as symbolized by the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. In Croatia, the regional branch of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia, the League of Communists of Croatia, had lost its ideological potency. Slovenia and Croatia wanted to move towards decentralization. SR Serbia, headed by Slobodan Milošević, adhered to centralism and single-party rule, and in turn effectively ended the autonomy of the autonomous provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina by March 1989, taking command of their votes in the Yugoslav federal presidency. The nationalist ideas started to grow within the ranks of the still-ruling League of Communists, while Milošević's speeches, notably the 1989 Gazimestan speech in which he talked of \"battles of quarrels\", favored continuation of a unified Yugoslav state — one in which all power would continue to be centralized in Belgrade.\n\nIn the autumn of 1989, the Serbian government pressured the Croatian government to allow a series of Serb nationalist rallies in the country, and the Serbian media and various Serbian intellectuals had already begun to refer to the Croatian leadership as \"Ustaše\", and began to make reference to crimes committed by the Ustaše between 1941-45. The rhetoric was approved by the Serbian political leadership, and accused the Croatian leadership of being \"blindly nationalistic\" when it objected.\n\nHaving completed the anti-bureaucratic revolution in Vojvodina, Kosovo, and Montenegro, Serbia secured four out of eight federal presidency votes in 1991, which rendered the governing body ineffective as other republics objected and called for reform of the Federation.\nIn 1989, political parties were allowed and a number of them had been founded, including the Croatian Democratic Union () (HDZ), led by Franjo Tuđman, who later became the first president of Croatia.\n\nIn January 1990, the League of Communists broke up on ethnic lines, with the Croatian and Slovene factions demanding a looser federation at the 14th Extraordinary Congress. At the congress, Serbian delegates accused the Croatian and Slovene delegates of \"supporting separatism, terrorism and genocide in Kosovo\". The Croatian and Slovene delegations, including most of their ethnic Serb members, eventually left in protest, after Serbian delegates rejected every proposed amendment.\n\nJanuary 1990 also marked the beginning of court cases being brought to Yugoslavia's Constitutional Court on the matter of secession. The first was the Slovenian Constitutional Amendments case after Slovenia claimed the right to unilateral secession pursuant to the right of self-determination. The Constitutional Court ruled that secession from the federation was only permitted if there was the unanimous agreement of Yugoslavia's republics and autonomous provinces. The Constitutional Court noted that 1974 Constitution's Section I of the Basic Principles of the Constitution identified that self-determination including secession \"belonged to the peoples of Yugoslavia and their socialist republics\". The matter of Kosovo secession was addressed in May 1991 with the court claiming that \"only the peoples of Yugoslavia\" had the right to secession, Albanians were considered a minority and not a people of Yugoslavia.\n\nIn February 1990, Jovan Rašković founded the Serb Democratic Party (SDS) in Knin, whose program aimed to change the regional division of Croatia to be aligned with ethnic Serb interests, Prominent members of the RSK government including Milan Babić and Milan Martić, later testified that Belgrade directed a propaganda campaign that portrayed the Serbs in Croatia as being threatened with genocide by the Croat majority. On 4 March 1990, 50,000 Serbs rallied at Petrova Gora, and shouted negative remarks aimed at Tuđman, chanted \"This is Serbia\", and expressed support for Milošević.\n\nThe first free elections in Croatia and Slovenia were scheduled for a few months later. The first round of elections in Croatia were held on 22 April, and the second round on 6 May. The HDZ based its campaign on greater sovereignty (eventually outright independence) for Croatia, fueling a sentiment among Croats that \"only the HDZ could protect Croatia from the aspirations of Milošević towards a Greater Serbia\". It topped the poll in the elections (followed by Ivica Račan's reformed communists, Social Democratic Party of Croatia) and was set to form a new Croatian Government.\n\nA tense atmosphere prevailed on May 13, 1990, when a football game was held at Zagreb in Maksimir Stadium between Zagreb's Dinamo team and Belgrade's Red Star. The game erupted into violence between the Croatian and Serbian fans and between the police.\n\nOn 30 May 1990, the new Croatian Parliament held its first session. President Tuđman announced his manifesto for a new Constitution (ratified at the end of the year) and a multitude of political, economic, and social changes, notably to what extent minority rights (mainly for Serbs) would be guaranteed. Local Serb politicians opposed the new constitution. In 1991, Croats represented 78.1% and Serbs 12.2% of the total population of Croatia, but the latter held a disproportionate number of official posts: 17.7% of appointed officials in Croatia, including police, were Serbs. An even greater proportion of those posts had been held by Serbs in Croatia earlier, which created a perception that the Serbs were guardians of the communist regime. This caused discontent among the Croats despite the fact it never actually undermined their own dominance in SR Croatia. After the HDZ came to power, many Serbs employed in the public sector, especially the police, were fired and replaced by Croats. This, combined with Tuđman's remarks, i.e. \"they declare that my wife is Jewish or Serbian. Luckily for me, she never was either\", were distorted by Milošević's media to spark fear that any form of an independent Croatia would be a new \"Ustashe state\". In one instance, TV Belgrade showed Tuđman shaking hands with German Chancellor Helmut Kohl (who would be the first government leader in the world to recognise independent Croatia and Slovenia) accusing the two of plotting \"a Fourth Reich\".\n\nImmediately after the Slovenian parliamentary election and the Croatian parliamentary election in April and May 1990, the JNA announced that the Tito-era doctrine of \"general people's defense\", in which each republic maintained a Territorial defense force () (TO), would henceforth be replaced by a centrally directed system of defense. The republics would lose their role in defense matters and their TOs would be disarmed and subordinated to JNA headquarters in Belgrade, but the new Slovenian government acted quickly to retain control over their TO. On 14 May 1990, the weapons of the TO of Croatia, in Croat-majority regions, were taken away by the JNA, preventing the possibility of Croatia having its own weapons as was done in Slovenia.\n. Borisav Jović, Serbia's representative in the Federal Presidency and a close ally of Slobodan Milošević, claimed that this action came at the behest of Serbia.\n\nAccording to Jović, on 27 June 1990 he and Veljko Kadijević, the Yugoslav Defence Minister, met and agreed that they should, regarding Croatia and Slovenia, \"expel them forcibly from Yugoslavia, by simply drawing borders and declaring that they have brought this upon themselves through their decisions\". According to Jović, the next day he obtained the agreement of Milošević. However, Kadijević, of mixed Serb-Croat heritage and a Yugoslav Partisan in World War II, was loyal to Yugoslavia and not a Greater Serbia; Kadijević believed that if Slovenia left Yugoslavia the state would collapse and thus he discussed with Jović about possibly using the JNA to impose martial law in Slovenia to prevent this potential collapse and was willing to wage war with the secessionist republics to prevent their secession. Kadijević considered the political crisis and ethnic conflict to have been caused by the actions of foreign governments, particularly Germany, which he accused of seeking to break up Yugoslavia to allow Germany to exercise a sphere of influence in the Balkans. Kadijević regarded the Croatian government of Tuđman to be a fascist-inspired and that Serbs had the right to be protected from Croatian \"armed formations\".\n\nAfter the election of Tuđman and the HDZ, a Serb Assembly was established in Srb, north of Knin, on 25 July 1990 as the political representation of the Serb people in Croatia. The Serb Assembly declared \"sovereignty and autonomy of the Serb people in Croatia\".\n\nIn August 1990, an unrecognized mono-ethnic referendum was held in regions with a substantial Serb population which would later become known as the Republic of Serbian Krajina (RSK) (bordering western Bosnia and Herzegovina) on the question of Serb \"sovereignty and autonomy\" in Croatia. This was an attempt to counter changes made to the constitution. The Croatian government sent police forces to police stations in Serb-populated areas to seize their weapons. Among other incidents, local Serbs from the southern hinterlands of Croatia, mostly around the city of Knin, blocked roads to tourist destinations in Dalmatia. This incident is known as the \"Log Revolution\". Years later, during Martić's trial, Babić claimed he was tricked by Martić into agreeing to the Log Revolution, and that it and the entire war in Croatia was Martić's responsibility, and had been orchestrated by Belgrade. The statement was corroborated by Martić in an interview published in 1991. Babić confirmed that by July 1991 Milošević had taken over control of the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA). The Croatian government responded to the blockade of roads by sending special police teams in helicopters to the scene, but were intercepted by SFR Yugoslav Air Force fighter jets and forced to turn back to Zagreb. The Serbs felled pine trees or used bulldozers to block roads to seal off towns like Knin and Benkovac near the Adriatic coast. On 18 August 1990, the Serbian newspaper \"Večernje novosti\" claimed almost \"two million Serbs were ready to go to Croatia to fight\".\n\nOn 21 December 1990, the SAO Krajina was proclaimed by the municipalities of the regions of Northern Dalmatia and Lika, in south-western Croatia. Article 1 of the Statute of the SAO Krajina defined the SAO Krajina as \"a form of territorial autonomy within the Republic of Croatia\" in which the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, state laws, and the Statute of the SAO Krajina were applied.\n\nOn 22 December 1990, the Parliament of Croatia ratified the new constitution, which was seen by Serbs as taking away rights that had been granted by the Socialist constitution. The constitution did define Croatia as \"the national state of the Croatian nation and a state of members of other nations and minorities who are its citizens: Serbs ... who are guaranteed equality with citizens of Croatian nationality ...\"\n\nFollowing Tuđman's election and the perceived threat from the new constitution, Serb nationalists in the Kninska Krajina region began taking armed action against Croatian government officials. Croatian government property throughout the region was increasingly controlled by local Serb municipalities or the newly established \"Serbian National Council\". This would later become the government of the breakaway Republic of Serbian Krajina (RSK).\n\nAfter it was discovered that Martin Špegelj had pursued a campaign to acquire arms through the black market in January 1991 an ultimatum was issued requesting disarming and disbanding of Croatian military forces considered illegal by the Yugoslav authorities. Croatian authorities refused to comply, and the Yugoslav army withdrew the ultimatum six days after it was issued.\n\nOn 12 March 1991, the leadership of the Army met with the Presidency of the SFRY in an attempt to convince them to declare a state of emergency which would allow for the army to take control of the country. Yugoslav army chief Veljko Kadijević declared that there was a conspiracy to destroy the country, saying:\nJović claims that Kadijević and the Army in March 1991 supported a coup d'etat as a way out of the crisis but then changed their minds four days later. Kadijević's response to this was that \"Jović is lying\". Kadijević claims that a March 1991 meeting two days after the huge protests organized by Vuk Drašković on the streets of Belgrade in Jović's office to which Kadijević had been invited by Milošević where, according to Kadijević, Milošević requested that the army take control of the country through a military coup. Kadijević's apparent response was informing Milošević that he could not make such a decision by himself, and that he'd discuss the request with army leaders and later inform Jović's office about their decision. Kadijević then said that their decision was against the putsch and that he informed Jović's office in written form about it. Jović for his part, claims that such document doesn't exist.\n\nAnte Marković has described that after the Presidency meeting failed to achieve the results the Army wanted that Kadijević met with him with the proposed coup d'etat against the secessionist republics. During the meeting Marković responded to Kadijević by saying that the plan failed to arrest Milošević. Kadijević replied \"He is only one fighting for Yugoslavia. Without him, we could not be proposing this.\" Marković rejected the plan and afterwards communication between Kadijević and Marković broke down.\n\nThe JNA was initially formed during World War II to carry out guerrilla warfare against occupying Axis forces. The success of the Partisan movement led to the JNA basing much of its operational strategy on guerrilla warfare, as its plans normally entailed defending against NATO or Warsaw Pact attacks, where other types of warfare would put the JNA in a comparatively poor position. That approach led to maintenance of a Territorial Defense system.\n\nOn paper, the JNA seemed a powerful force, with 2,000 tanks and 300 jet aircraft (mainly Soviet or locally produced). However, by 1991, the majority of this equipment was 30 years old, as the force consisted primarily of T-54/55 tanks and MiG-21 aircraft. Still, the JNA operated around 300 M-84 tanks (a Yugoslav version of the Soviet T-72) and a sizable fleet of ground-attack aircraft, such as the Soko G-4 Super Galeb and the Soko J-22 Orao, whose armament included AGM-65 Maverick guided missiles. By contrast, more modern cheap anti-tank missiles (like the AT-5) and anti-aircraft missiles (like the SA-14) were abundant and were designed to destroy much more advanced weaponry. Before the war the JNA had 169,000 regular troops, including 70,000 professional officers. The fighting in Slovenia brought about a great number of desertions, and the army responded by mobilizing Serbian reserve troops. Approximately 100,000 evaded the draft, and the new conscripts proved an ineffective fighting force. The JNA resorted to reliance on irregular militias. Paramilitary units like the White Eagles, Serbian Guard, Dušan Silni, and Serb Volunteer Guard, which committed a number of massacres against Croat and other non-Serbs civilians, were increasingly used by the Yugoslav and Serb forces. There were also foreign fighters supporting the RSK, mostly from Russia. With the retreat of the JNA forces in 1992, JNA units were reorganized as the Army of Serb Krajina, which was a direct heir to the JNA organization, with little improvement.\n\nBy 1991, the JNA officer corps was dominated by Serbs and Montenegrins; they were overrepresented in Yugoslav federal institutions, especially the army. 57.1% of JNA officers were Serbs, while Serbs formed 36.3% of the population of Yugoslavia. A similar structure was observed as early as 1981. Even though the two peoples combined comprised 38.8% of the population of Yugoslavia, 70% of all JNA officers and non-commissioned officers were either Serbs or Montenegrins. In 1991, the JNA was instructed to \"completely eliminate Croats and Slovenes from the army.\"\n\nThe Croatian military was in a much worse state than that of the Serbs. In the early stages of the war, lack of military units meant that the Croatian Police force would take the brunt of the fighting. The Croatian National Guard (), the new Croatian military, was formed on 11 April 1991, and gradually developed into the Croatian Army () by 1993. Weaponry was in short supply, and many units were either unarmed or were equipped with obsolete World War II-era rifles. The Croatian Army had only a handful of tanks, including World War II-surplus vehicles such as the T-34, and its air force was in an even worse state, consisting of only a few Antonov An-2 biplane crop-dusters that had been converted to drop makeshift bombs.\n\nIn August 1991, the Croatian Army had fewer than 20 brigades. After general mobilization was instituted in October, the size of the army grew to 60 brigades and 37 independent battalions by the end of the year. In 1991 and 1992, Croatia was also supported by 456 foreign fighters, including British (139), French (69), and German (55). The seizure of the JNA's barracks between September and December helped to alleviate the Croatians' equipment shortage. By 1995, the balance of power had shifted significantly. Serb forces in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina were capable of fielding an estimated 130,000 troops; the Croatian Army, Croatian Defence Council () (HVO), and the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina could field a combined force of 250,000 soldiers and 570 tanks.\n\nEthnic hatred grew as various incidents fueled the propaganda machines on both sides. During his testimony before the ICTY, one of the top-Krajina leaders, Milan Martić, stated that the Serb side started using force first.\n\nThe conflict escalated into armed incidents in the majority-Serb populated areas. The Serbs attacked Croatian police units in Pakrac in early March, while one Josip Jović is widely reported as the first police officer killed by Serb forces as part of the war, during the Plitvice Lakes incident in late March 1991.\n\nIn March and April 1991, Serbs in Croatia began to make moves to secede from that territory. It is a matter of debate to what extent this move was locally motivated and to what degree the Milošević-led Serbian government was involved. In any event, the SAO Krajina was declared, which consisted of any Croatian territory with a substantial Serb population. The Croatian government viewed this move as a rebellion.\n\nFrom the beginning of the Log Revolution and the end of April 1991, nearly 200 incidents involving the use of explosive devices and 89 attacks on the Croatian police were recorded. The Croatian Ministry of the Interior started arming an increasing number of special police forces, and this led to the building of a real army. On 9 April 1991, Croatian President Tuđman ordered the special police forces to be renamed \"Zbor Narodne Garde\" (\"National Guard\"); this marks the creation of a separate military of Croatia.\n\nSignificant clashes from this period included the siege of Kijevo, where over a thousand people were besieged in the inner Dalmatian village of Kijevo, and the Borovo Selo killings, where Croatian policemen engaged Serb paramilitaries in the eastern Slavonian village of Borovo and suffered twelve casualties. Violence gripped eastern Slavonian villages: in Tovarnik, a Croat policeman was killed by Serb paramilitaries on 2 May, while in Sotin, a Serb civilian was killed on 5 May when he was caught in a crossfire between Serb and Croat paramilitaries. On 6 May, the 1991 protest in Split against the siege of Kijevo at the Navy Command in Split resulted in the death of a Yugoslav People's Army soldier.\n\nOn 15 May, Stjepan Mesić, a Croat, was scheduled to be the chairman of the rotating presidency of Yugoslavia. Serbia, aided by Kosovo, Montenegro, and Vojvodina, whose presidency votes were at that time under Serbian control, blocked the appointment, which was otherwise seen as largely ceremonial. This maneuver technically left Yugoslavia without a head of state and without a commander-in-chief. Two days later, a repeated attempt to vote on the issue failed. Ante Marković, prime minister of Yugoslavia at the time, proposed appointing a panel which would wield presidential powers. It was not immediately clear who the panel members would be, apart from defense minister Veljko Kadijević, nor who would fill position of JNA commander-in-chief. The move was quickly rejected by Croatia as unconstitutional. The crisis was resolved after a six-week stalemate, and Mesić was elected president — the first non-communist to become Yugoslav head of state in decades.\n\nThroughout this period, the federal army, the JNA, and the local Territorial Defense Forces continued to be led by Federal authorities controlled by Milošević. Helsinki Watch reported that Serb Krajina authorities executed Serbs who were willing to reach an accommodation with Croat officials.\n\nOn 19 May 1991, the Croatian authorities held a referendum on independence with the option of remaining in Yugoslavia as a looser union. Serb local authorities issued calls for a boycott, which were largely followed by Croatian Serbs. The referendum passed with 94% in favor.\n\nThe newly constituted Croatian military units held a military parade and review at Stadion Kranjčevićeva in Zagreb on 28 May 1991.\n\nThe parliament of Croatia declared Croatia's independence and dissolved its association with Yugoslavia on 25 June 1991. The Croatian parliament's decision was partially boycotted by left-wing parliament deputies. The European Community and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe urged Croatian authorities to place a three-month moratorium on the decision.\n\nThe government of Yugoslavia responded to the declarations of independence of Croatia and Slovenia with Yugoslav Prime Minister Ante Marković declaring the secessions to be illegal and contrary to the Constitution of Yugoslavia, and supported the JNA taking action to secure the integral unity of Yugoslavia.\n\nIn June and July 1991, the short armed conflict in Slovenia came to a speedy end, partly because of the ethnic homogeneity of the population of Slovenia. It was later revealed that a military strike against Slovenia, followed by a planned withdrawal, was conceived by Slobodan Milošević and Borisav Jović, then president of the SFR Yugoslavia presidency. Jović published his diary containing the information and repeated it in his testimony at the Milošević trial at the ICTY.\n\nCroatia agreed to the Brioni Agreement that involved freezing its independence declaration for three months, which eased tensions a little.\n\nIn July, in an attempt to salvage what remained of Yugoslavia, the JNA forces were involved in operations against predominantly Croat areas. In July the Serb-led Territorial Defence Forces started their advance on Dalmatian coastal areas in Operation Coast-91. By early August, large areas of Banovina were overrun by Serb forces.\n\nWith the start of military operations in Croatia, Croats and a number of Serbian conscripts started to desert the JNA en masse, similar to what had happened in Slovenia. Albanians and Macedonians started to search for a way to legally leave the JNA or serve their conscription term in Macedonia; these moves further homogenized the ethnic composition of JNA troops in or near Croatia.\n\nOne month after Croatia declared its independence, the Yugoslav army and other Serb forces held something less than one-third of the Croatian territory, mostly in areas with a predominantly ethnic Serb population. The JNA military strategy partly consisted of extensive shelling, at times irrespective of the presence of civilians. As the war progressed, the cities of Dubrovnik, Gospić, Šibenik, Zadar, Karlovac, Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Osijek, Vinkovci, and Vukovar all came under attack by Yugoslav forces. The United Nations (UN) imposed a weapons embargo; this did not affect JNA-backed Serb forces significantly, as they had the JNA arsenal at their disposal, but it caused serious trouble for the newly formed Croatian army. The Croatian government started smuggling weapons over its borders.\n\nIn August 1991, the Battle of Vukovar began.\nEastern Slavonia was gravely impacted throughout this period, starting with the Dalj massacre of August 1991; fronts developed around Osijek and Vinkovci in parallel to the encirclement of Vukovar.\n\nIn September, Serbian troops completely surrounded the city of Vukovar. Croatian troops, including the 204th Vukovar Brigade, entrenched themselves within the city and held their ground against elite armored and mechanized brigades of the JNA, as well as Serb paramilitary units. Vukovar was almost completely devastated; 15,000 houses were destroyed. Some ethnic Croatian civilians had taken shelter inside the city. Other members of the civilian population fled the area en masse. Death toll estimates for Vukovar as a result of the siege range from 1,798 to 5,000. A further 22,000 were exiled from Vukovar immediately after the town was captured.\n\nSome estimates include 220,000 Croats and 300,000 Serbs internally displaced for the duration of the war in Croatia. In many areas, large numbers of civilians were forced out by the military. It was at this time that the term ethnic cleansing—the meaning of which ranged from eviction to murder—first entered the English lexicon.\n\nOn October 3, the Yugoslav Navy renewed its blockade of the main ports of Croatia. This move followed months of standoff for JNA positions in Dalmatia and elsewhere now known as the Battle of the barracks. It also coincided with the end of Operation Coast-91, in which the JNA failed to occupy the coastline in an attempt to cut off Dalmatia's access to the rest of Croatia.\n\nOn October 5, President Tuđman made a speech in which he called upon the whole population to mobilize and defend against \"Greater Serbian imperialism\" pursued by the Serb-led JNA, Serbian paramilitary formations, and rebel Serb forces. On 7 October, the Yugoslav air force attacked the main government building in Zagreb, an incident referred to as the bombing of Banski dvori. The next day, as a previously agreed three-month moratorium on implementation of the declaration of independence expired, the Croatian Parliament severed all remaining ties with Yugoslavia. 8 October is now celebrated as Independence Day in Croatia. The bombing of the government offices and the Siege of Dubrovnik that started in October were contributing factors that led to European Union (EU) sanctions against Serbia. On 15 October after the capture of Cavtat by the JNA, local Serbs led by Aco Apolonio proclaimed the Dubrovnik Republic. The international media focused on the damage to Dubrovnik's cultural heritage; concerns about civilian casualties and pivotal battles such as the one in Vukovar were pushed out of public view. Nonetheless, artillery attacks on Dubrovnik damaged 56% of its buildings to some degree, as the historic walled city, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, sustained 650 hits by artillery rounds.\n\nIn response to the 5th JNA Corps advance across the Sava River towards Pakrac and further north into western Slavonia, the Croatian army began a successful counterattack in early November 1991, its first major offensive operation of the war. Operation \"Otkos 10\" (31 October to 4 November) resulted in Croatia recapturing an area between the Bilogora and Papuk mountains. The Croatian Army recaptured approximately of territory in this operation.\n\nThe Vukovar massacre took place in November; the survivors were transported to prison camps such as Ovčara and Velepromet, with the majority ending up in Sremska Mitrovica prison camp. The sustained siege of Vukovar attracted heavy international media attention. Many international journalists were in or near Vukovar, as was UN peace mediator Cyrus Vance, who had been Secretary of State to former US President Carter.\n\nAlso in eastern Slavonia, the Lovas massacre occurred in October and the Erdut massacre in November 1991, before and after the fall of Vukovar. At the same time, the Škabrnja massacre occurred in the northern Dalmatian hinterland; it was largely overshadowed by the events at Vukovar.\n\nOn 14 November, the Navy blockade of Dalmatian ports was challenged by civilian ships. The confrontation culminated in the Battle of the Dalmatian channels, when Croatian coastal and island based artillery damaged, sank, or captured a number of Yugoslav navy vessels, including \"Mukos\" PČ 176, later rechristened PB 62 \"Šolta\". After the battle, the Yugoslav naval operations were effectively limited to the southern Adriatic.\nCroatian forces made further advances in the second half of December, including Operation Orkan 91. In the course of Orkan '91, the Croatian army recaptured approximately of territory. The end of the operation marked the end of a six-month-long phase of intense fighting: 10,000 people had died; hundreds of thousands had fled and tens of thousands of homes had been destroyed.\n\nOn December 19, as the intensity of the fighting increased, Croatia won its first diplomatic recognition by a western nation—Iceland—while the Serbian Autonomous Oblasts in Krajina and western Slavonia officially declared themselves the Republic of Serbian Krajina. Four days later, Germany recognized Croatian independence. On December 26, 1991, the Serb-dominated federal presidency announced plans for a smaller Yugoslavia that could include the territory captured from Croatia during the war.\n\nHowever, on December 21, 1991 for the first time in the war Istria was under attack. The Serbian Forces attacked the airport near the city of Vrsar, situated in the south-western of the peninsula between the city of Poreč and Rovinj, with two MiG-21 and two Galeb G-2. Afterwards, Yugoslav airplanes carpet bombed Vrsar's \"Crljenka\" airport, resulting in two deaths.\nMediated by foreign diplomats, ceasefires were frequently signed and frequently broken. Croatia lost much territory, but expanded the Croatian Army from the seven brigades it had at the time of the first ceasefire to 60 brigades and 37 independent battalions by December 31, 1991.\nThe Arbitration Commission of the Peace Conference on Yugoslavia, also referred to as Badinter Arbitration Committee, was set up by the Council of Ministers of the European Economic Community (EEC) on August 27, 1991, to provide the Conference on Yugoslavia with legal advice. The five-member Commission consisted of presidents of Constitutional Courts in the EEC. Starting in late November 1991, the committee rendered ten opinions. The Commission stated, among other things, that SFR Yugoslavia was in the process of dissolution and that the internal boundaries of Yugoslav republics may not be altered unless freely agreed upon.\n\nFactors in favour of Croatia's preservation of its pre-war borders were the Yugoslav Federal Constitution Amendments of 1971, and the Yugoslav Federal Constitution of 1974. The 1971 amendments introduced a concept that sovereign rights were exercised by the federal units, and that the federation had only the authority specifically transferred to it by the constitution. The 1974 Constitution confirmed and strengthened the principles introduced in 1971. The borders had been defined by demarcation commissions in 1947, pursuant to decisions of AVNOJ in 1943 and 1945 regarding the federal organization of Yugoslavia.\n\nA new UN-sponsored ceasefire, the fifteenth one in just six months, was agreed on January 2, 1992, and came into force the next day. This so-called Sarajevo Agreement became a lasting ceasefire. Croatia was officially recognized by the European Community on January 15, 1992. Even though the JNA began to withdraw from Croatia, including Krajina, the RSK clearly retained the upper hand in the occupied territories due to support from Serbia. By that time, the RSK encompassed of territory. The area size did not encompass another of occupied territory near Dubrovnik, as that area was not considered part of the RSK.\n\nEnding the series of unsuccessful ceasefires, the UN deployed a protection force in Serbian-held Croatia—the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR)—to supervise and maintain the agreement. The UNPROFOR was officially created by UN Security Council Resolution 743 on February 21, 1992.\nThe warring parties mostly moved to entrenched positions, and the JNA soon retreated from Croatia into Bosnia and Herzegovina, where a new conflict was anticipated. Croatia became a member of the UN on May 22, 1992, which was conditional upon Croatia amending its constitution to protect the human rights of minority groups and dissidents.\nExpulsions of the non-Serb civilian population remaining in the occupied territories continued despite the presence of the UNPROFOR peacekeeping troops, and in some cases, with UN troops being virtually enlisted as accomplices.\n\nThe Yugoslav People's Army took thousands of prisoners during the war in Croatia, and interned them in camps in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Montenegro. The Croatian forces also captured some Serbian prisoners, and the two sides agreed to several prisoner exchanges; most prisoners were freed by the end of 1992. Some infamous prisons included the Sremska Mitrovica camp, the Stajićevo camp, and the Begejci camp in Serbia, and the Morinj camp in Montenegro. The Croatian Army also established detention camps, such as the Lora prison camp in Split.\n\nArmed conflict in Croatia continued intermittently on a smaller scale. There were several smaller operations undertaken by Croatian forces to relieve the siege of Dubrovnik, and other Croatian cities (Šibenik, Zadar and Gospić) from Krajina forces. Battles included the Miljevci plateau incident (between Krka and Drniš), on June 21–22, 1992, Operation \"Jaguar\" at Križ Hill near Bibinje and Zadar, on May 22, 1992, and a series of military actions in the Dubrovnik hinterland: Operation \"Tigar\", on 1–13 July 1992, in Konavle, on 20–24 September 1992, and at Vlaštica on September 22–25, 1992. Combat near Dubrovnik was followed by the withdrawal of JNA from Konavle, between September 30 and October 20, 1992. The Prevlaka peninsula guarding entrance to the Bay of Kotor was demilitarized and turned over to the UNPROFOR, while the remainder of Konavle was restored to the Croatian authorities.\n\nFighting was renewed at the beginning of 1993, as the Croatian army launched Operation Maslenica, an offensive operation in the Zadar area on January 22. The objective of the attack was to improve the strategic situation in that area, as it targeted the city airport and the Maslenica Bridge, the last entirely overland link between Zagreb and the city of Zadar until the bridge area was captured in September 1991. The attack proved successful as it met its declared objectives, but at a high cost, as 114 Croat and 490 Serb soldiers were killed in a relatively limited theater of operations.\n\nWhile Operation Maslenica was in progress, Croatian forces attacked Serb positions to the east. They advanced towards the Peruća Hydroelectric Dam and captured it by January 28, 1993, shortly after Serb militiamen chased away the UN peacekeepers protecting the dam. UN forces had been present at the site since the summer of 1992. They discovered that the Serbs had planted 35 to 37 tons of explosives spread over seven different sites on the dam in a way that prevented the explosives' removal; the charges were left in place. Retreating Serb forces detonated three of explosive charges totaling 5 tons within the high dam in an attempt to cause it to fail and flood the area downstream. The disaster was prevented by Mark Nicholas Gray, a colonel in the British Royal Marines, a lieutenant at the time, who was a UN military observer at the site. He risked being disciplined for acting beyond his authority by lowering the reservoir level, which held of water, before the dam was blown up. His action saved the lives of 20,000 people who would otherwise have drowned or become homeless.\n\nOperation Medak Pocket took place in a salient south of Gospić, from September 9–17. The offensive was undertaken by the Croatian army to stop Serbian artillery in the area from shelling nearby Gospić. The operation met its stated objective of removing the artillery threat, as Croatian troops overran the salient, but it was marred by war crimes. The ICTY later indicted Croatian officers for war crimes. The operation was halted amid international pressure, and an agreement was reached that the Croatian troops were to withdraw to positions held prior to September 9, while UN troops were to occupy the salient alone. The events that followed remain controversial, as Canadian authorities reported that the Croatian army intermittently fought against the advancing Canadian Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry before finally retreating after sustaining 27 fatalities. The Croatian ministry of defense and UN officer's testimonies given during the Ademi-Norac trial deny that the battle occurred.\nOn February 18, 1993, Croatian authorities signed the Daruvar Agreement with local Serb leaders in Western Slavonia. The aim of the secret agreement was normalizing life for local populations near the frontline. However, authorities in Knin learned of this and arrested the Serb leaders responsible. In June 1993, Serbs began voting in a referendum on merging Krajina territory with Republika Srpska. Milan Martić, acting as the RSK interior minister, advocated a merger of the \"two Serbian states as the first stage in the establishment of a state of all Serbs\" in his April 3 letter to the Assembly of the Republika Srpska. On January 21, 1994, Martić stated that he would \"speed up the process of unification and pass on the baton to all Serbian leader Slobodan Milošević\" if elected president of the RSK.\" These intentions were countered by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 871 in October 1993, when the UNSC affirmed for the first time that the United Nations Protected Areas, i.e. the RSK held areas, were an integral part of the Republic of Croatia.\n\nDuring 1992 and 1993, an estimated 225,000 Croats, as well as refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, settled in Croatia. Croatian volunteers and some conscripted soldiers participated in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In September 1992, Croatia had accepted 335,985 refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, most of whom were Bosniak civilians (excluding men of drafting age). The large number of refugees significantly strained the Croatian economy and infrastructure. The American Ambassador to Croatia, Peter Galbraith, tried to put the number of Muslim refugees in Croatia into a proper perspective in an interview on 8 November 1993. He said the situation would be the equivalent of the United States taking in 30,000,000 refugees.\n\nIn 1992, the Croat-Bosniak conflict erupted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, just as each was fighting with the Bosnian Serbs. The war was originally fought between the Croatian Defence Council and Croatian volunteer troops on one side and the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ARBiH) on the other, but by 1994, the Croatian Army had an estimated 3,000 to 5,000 troops involved in the fighting. Under pressure from the United States, the belligerents agreed on a truce in late February, followed by a meeting of Croatian, Bosnian, and Bosnian Croat representatives with US Secretary of State Warren Christopher in Washington, D.C. on February 26, 1994. On March 4, Franjo Tuđman endorsed the agreement providing for the creation of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and an alliance between Bosnian and Croatian armies against the Serb forces.\nThis led to the dismantling of Herzeg-Bosnia and reduced the number of warring factions in Bosnia and Herzegovina from three to two.\n\nIn late 1994, the Croatian Army intervened several times in Bosnia: from November 1–3, in Operation Cincar near Kupres, and on November 29 – December 24 in the \"Winter '94\" operation near Dinara and Livno. These operations were undertaken to detract from the siege of the Bihać region and to approach the RSK capital of Knin from the north, isolating it on three sides.\n\nDuring this time, unsuccessful negotiations mediated by the UN were under way between the Croatian and RSK governments. The matters under discussion included opening the Serb-occupied part of the Zagreb–Slavonski Brod motorway near Okučani to transit traffic, as well as the putative status of Serbian-majority areas within Croatia. The motorway initially reopened at the end of 1994, but it was soon closed again due to security issues. Repeated failures to resolve the two disputes would serve as triggers for major Croatian offensives in 1995.\nAt the same time, the Krajina army continued the Siege of Bihać, together with the Army of Republika Srpska from Bosnia. Michael Williams, an official of the UN peacekeeping force, said that when the village of Vedro Polje west of Bihać had fallen to a RSK unit in late November 1994, the siege entered the final stage. He added that heavy tank and artillery fire against the town of Velika Kladuša in the north of the Bihać enclave was coming from the RSK. Western military analysts said that among the array of Serbian surface-to-air missile systems that surround the Bihać pocket on Croatian territory, there was a modern SAM-2 system probably brought there from Belgrade. In response to the situation, the Security Council passed Resolution 958, which allowed NATO aircraft deployed as a part of the Operation Deny Flight to operate in Croatia. On November 21, NATO attacked the Udbina airfield controlled by the RSK, temporarily disabling runways. Following the Udbina strike, NATO continued to launch strikes in the area, and on November 23, after a NATO reconnaissance plane was illuminated by the radar of a surface-to-air missile (SAM) system, NATO planes attacked a SAM site near Dvor with AGM-88 HARM anti-radiation missiles.\n\nIn later campaigns, the Croatian army would pursue a variant of blitzkrieg tactics, with the Guard brigades punching through the enemy lines while the other units simply held the lines at other points and completed an encirclement of the enemy units. In a further attempt to bolster its armed forces, Croatia hired Military Professional Resources Inc. (MPRI) in September 1994 to train some of its officers and NCOs. Begun in January 1995, MPRI's assignment involved fifteen advisors who taught basic officer leadership skills and training management. MPRI activities were reviewed in advance by the US State Department to ensure they did not involve tactical training or violate the UN arms embargo still in place.\n\nTensions were renewed at the beginning of 1995 as Croatia sought to put increasing pressure on the RSK. In a five-page letter on 12 January Franjo Tuđman formally told the UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali that Croatia was ending the agreement permitting the stationing of UNPROFOR in Croatia, effective 31 March. The move was purportedly motivated by actions by Serbia and the Serb-dominated Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to provide assistance to the Serb occupation of Croatia and allegedly integrate the occupied areas into Yugoslav territory. The situation was noted and addressed by the UN General Assembly.\n\nInternational peacemaking efforts continued, and a new peace plan called the Z-4 plan was presented to Croatian and Krajina authorities. There was no initial Croatian response, and the Serbs flatly refused the proposal. As the deadline for UNPROFOR to pull out neared, a new UN peacekeeping mission was proposed with an increased mandate to patrol Croatia's internationally recognized borders. Initially the Serbs opposed the move, and tanks were moved from Serbia into eastern Croatia. A settlement was finally reached, and the new UN peacekeeping mission was approved by United Nations Security Council Resolution 981 on March 31. The name of the mission was the subject of a last-minute dispute, as Croatian Foreign Minister Mate Granić insisted that the word \"Croatia\" be added to the force's name. The name United Nations Confidence Restoration Operation in Croatia (UNCRO) was approved.\n\nViolence erupted again in early May 1995. The RSK lost support from the Serbian government in Belgrade, partly as a result of international pressure. At the same time, the Croatian Operation Flash reclaimed all of the previously occupied territory in Western Slavonia. In retaliation, Serb forces attacked Zagreb with rockets, killing 7 and wounding over 200 civilians. The Yugoslav army responded to the offensive with a show of force, moving tanks towards the Croatian border, in an apparent effort to stave off a possible attack on the occupied area in Eastern Slavonia.\n\nDuring the following months, international efforts mainly concerned the largely unsuccessful United Nations Safe Areas set up in Bosnia and Herzegovina and trying to set up a more lasting ceasefire in Croatia. The two issues virtually merged by July 1995 when a number of the safe areas in eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina were overrun and one in Bihać was threatened. In 1994, Croatia had already signaled that it would not allow Bihać to be captured, and a new confidence in the Croatian military's ability to recapture occupied areas brought about a demand from Croatian authorities that no further ceasefires were to be negotiated; the occupied territories would be re-integrated into Croatia. These developments and the Washington Agreement, a ceasefire signed in the Bosnian theater, led to another meeting of presidents of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on 22 July, when the Split Agreement was adopted. In it, Bosnia and Herzegovina invited Croatia to provide military and other assistance, particularly in the Bihać area. Croatia accepted, committing itself to an armed intervention.\n\nFrom 25–30 July, the Croatian Army and Croatian Defence Council (HVO) troops attacked Serb-held territory north of Mount Dinara, capturing Bosansko Grahovo and Glamoč during Operation Summer '95. That offensive paved the way for the military recapture of occupied territory around Knin, as it severed the last efficient resupply route between Banja Luka and Knin. On 4 August, Croatia started Operation Storm, with the aim of recapturing almost all of the occupied territory in Croatia, except for a comparatively small strip of land, located along the Danube, at a considerable distance from the bulk of the contested land. The offensive, involving 100,000 Croatian soldiers, was the largest single land battle fought in Europe since World War II. Operation Storm achieved its goals and was declared completed on 8 August.\n\nMany of the civilian population of the occupied areas fled during the offensive or immediately after its completion, in what was later described in various terms ranging from expulsion to planned evacuation. Krajina Serb sources (Documents of HQ of Civilian Protection of RSK, Supreme Council of Defense published by Kovačević, Sekulić, and Vrcelj) confirm that the evacuation of Serbs was organized and planned beforehand. According to Amnesty International, \"some 200,000 Croatian Serbs, including the entire Croatian Serb Army, fled to the neighbouring Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Bosnian Serb control. In the aftermath of the operations members of the Croatian Army and police murdered, tortured, and forcibly expelled Croatian Serb civilians who had remained in the area as well as members of the withdrawing Croatian Serb armed forces\". The ICTY, on the other hand, concluded that only about 20,000 people were deported. The BBC noted 200,000 Serb refugees at one point. Croatian refugees exiled in 1991 were finally allowed to return to their homes. In 1996 alone, about 85,000 displaced Croats returned to the former Krajina and western Slavonia, according to the estimates of the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants.\n\nIn the months that followed, there were still some intermittent, mainly artillery, attacks from Serb-held areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Dubrovnik area and elsewhere. The remaining Serb-held area in Croatia, in Eastern Slavonia, was faced with the possibility of military confrontation with Croatia. Such a possibility was repeatedly stated by Tuđman after Storm. The threat was underlined by the movement of troops to the region in mid-October, as well as a repeat of an earlier threat to intervene militarily—specifically saying that the Croatian Army could intervene if no peace agreement was reached by the end of the month.\n\nFurther combat was averted on 12 November when the Erdut Agreement was signed by the RSK acting defense minister Milan Milanović, on instructions received from Slobodan Milošević and Federal Republic of Yugoslavia officials. The agreement stated that the remaining occupied area was to be returned to Croatia, with a two-year transitional period. The new UN mission was established as the United Nations Transitional Authority for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES) by United Nations Security Council Resolution 1037 of 15 January 1996. The agreement guarantees also right of establishment of Joint Council of Municipalities for local Serbian community.\n\nThe transitional period was subsequently extended by a year. On 15 January 1998, the UNTAES mandate ended and Croatia regained full control of the area. As the UNTAES replaced the UNCRO mission, Prevlaka peninsula, previously under UNCRO control, was put under control of United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka (UNMOP). The UNMOP was established by United Nations Security Council Resolution 1038 of 15 January 1996, and terminated on 15 December 2002.\n\nThe standard term applied to the war as directly translated from the Croatian language is \"Homeland war\" (), while the term \"Croatian War of Independence\" is also used. Early English language sources also called it the \"War in Croatia\", the \"Serbo-Croatian War\", and the \"Conflict in Yugoslavia\".\n\nDifferent translations of the Croatian name for the war are also sometimes used, such as \"Patriotic War\", although such use by native speakers of English is rare. The official term used in the Croatian language is the most widespread name used in Croatia but other terms are also used. Another is \"Greater-Serbian Aggression\" (). The term was widely used by the media during the war, and is still sometimes used by the Croatian media, politicians and others.\n\nTwo views exist as to whether the war was a civil or an international war. The government of Serbia often uses the term civil war. The prevailing view in Croatia and of most international law experts, including both international courts ICTY and ICJ, is that the war was an international conflict, between the rump Yugoslavia and Serbia against Croatia, supported by Serbs in Croatia. Neither Croatia nor Yugoslavia ever formally declared war on each other. Unlike the Serbian position that the conflict need not be declared as it was a civil war, the Croatian motivation for not declaring war was that Tuđman believed that Croatia could not confront the JNA directly and did everything to avoid an all-out war.\n\nMost sources place the total number of deaths from the war at around 20,000. According to the head of the Croatian Commission for Missing Persons, Colonel Ivan Grujić, Croatia suffered 12,000 killed or missing, including 6,788 soldiers and 4,508 civilians. Another source gives a figure of 14,000 killed on the Croatian side, of whom 43.4% were civilians. Official figures from 1996 also list 35,000 wounded. Ivo Goldstein mentions 13,583 killed or missing, while Anglo-Croatian historian Marko Attila Hoare reports the number to be 15,970. Close to 2,400 persons were reported missing during the war.\n\nAs of 2010, the Croatian government was seeking information on 1,997 persons missing since the war. As of 2009, there were more than 52,000 persons in Croatia registered as disabled due to their participation in the war. This figure includes not only those disabled physically due to wounds or injuries sustained but also persons whose health deteriorated due to their involvement in the war, including diagnoses of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, as well as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In 2010, the number of war-related PTSD-diagnosed persons was 32,000.\n\nIn total, the war caused 500,000 refugees and displaced persons. Around 196,000 to 247,000 (in 1993) Croats and other non-Serbs were displaced during the war from or around the RSK. The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) said that 221,000 were displaced in 2006, of which 218,000 had returned. The majority were displaced during the initial fighting and during the JNA offensives of 1991 and 1992. Some 150,000 Croats from Republika Srpska and Serbia have obtained Croatian citizenship since 1991, many due to incidents like the expulsions in Hrtkovci.\n\nThe Belgrade-based non-government organization \"Veritas\" lists 6,827 killed and missing from the Republic of Serbian Krajina, including 4,177 combatants and 2,650 civilians, and 307 JNA members who were from Croatia. Most of them were killed or went missing in 1991 (2,729) and 1995 (2,348). The most deaths occurred in Northern Dalmatia (1,605). The JNA has officially acknowledged 1,279 killed in action. The actual number was probably considerably greater, since casualties were consistently underreported. In one example, official reports spoke of two slightly wounded soldiers after an engagement, however, according to the unit's intelligence officer, the actual number was 50 killed and 150 wounded.\nAccording to Serbian sources, some 120,000 Serbs were displaced from 1991 to 1993, and 250,000 were displaced after Operation Storm. The number of displaced Serbs was 254,000 in 1993, dropping to 97,000 in the early 1995 and then increasing again to 200,000 by the end of the year. Most international sources place the total number of Serbs displaced at around 300,000. According to Amnesty International 300,000 were displaced from 1991 to 1995, of which 117,000 were officially registered as having returned as of 2005. According to the OSCE, 300,000 were displaced during the war, of which 120,000 were officially registered as having returned as of 2006. However, it is believed the number does not accurately reflect the number of returnees, because many returned to Serbia, Montenegro, or Bosnia and Herzegovina after officially registering in Croatia. According to the UNHCR in 2008, 125,000 were registered as having returned to Croatia, of whom 55,000 remained permanently.\n\nThe Croatian Association of Prisoners in Serbian Concentration Camps and Croatian Disabled Homeland War Veterans Association were founded to help victims of prison abuse.\n\nOfficial figures on wartime damage published in Croatia in 1996 specify 180,000 destroyed housing units, 25% of the Croatian economy destroyed, and US$27 billion of material damage. \"Europe Review 2003/04\" estimated the war damage at US$37 billion in damaged infrastructure, lost economic output, and refugee-related costs, while GDP dropped 21% in the period. 15 percent of housing units and 2,423 cultural heritage structures, including 495 sacral structures, were destroyed or damaged. The war imposed an additional economic burden of very high military expenditures. By 1994, as Croatia rapidly developed into a de facto war economy, the military consumed as much as 60 percent of total government spending.\n\nYugoslav and Serbian expenditures during the war were even more disproportionate. The federal budget proposal for 1992 earmarked 81 percent of funds to be diverted into the Serbian war effort. Since a substantial part of the federal budgets prior to 1992 was provided by Slovenia and Croatia, the most developed republics of Yugoslavia, a lack of federal income quickly led to desperate printing of money to finance government operations. That in turn produced the worst episode of hyperinflation in history: Between October 1993 and January 1995, Yugoslavia, which then consisted of Serbia and Montenegro, suffered through a hyperinflation of five quadrillion percent.\n\nMany Croatian cities were attacked by artillery, missiles, and aircraft bombs by RSK or JNA forces from RSK or Serb-controlled areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Montenegro and Serbia. The most shelled cities were Vukovar, Slavonski Brod (from the mountain of Vučjak), and Županja (for more than 1,000 days), Vinkovci, Osijek, Nova Gradiška, Novska, Daruvar, Pakrac, Šibenik, Sisak, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Gospić, Karlovac, Biograd na moru, Slavonski Šamac, Ogulin, Duga Resa, Otočac, Ilok, Beli Manastir, Lučko, Zagreb, and others Slavonski Brod was never directly attacked by tanks or infantry, but the city and its surrounding villages were hit by more than 11,600 artillery shells and 130 aircraft bombs in 1991 and 1992.\n\nApproximately 2 million mines were laid in various areas of Croatia during the war. Most of the minefields were laid with no pattern or any type of record being made of the position of the mines. A decade after the war, in 2005, there were still about 250,000 mines buried along the former front lines, along some segments of the international borders, especially near Bihać, and around some former JNA facilities. As of 2007, the area still containing or suspected of containing mines encompassed approximately . More than 1,900 people were killed or injured by land mines in Croatia since the beginning of the war, including more than 500 killed or injured by mines after the end of the war. Between 1998 and 2005, Croatia spent €214 million on various mine action programs. As of 2009, all remaining minefields are clearly marked. During the 2015 European migrant crisis, there existed concerns over areas where mines could affect the flow of refugees coming from Serbia to Croatia.\n\nThe International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) was established by UN Security Council Resolution 827, which was passed on 25 May 1993. The court has power to prosecute persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law, breaches of the Geneva Conventions, violating the laws or customs of war, committing genocide, and crimes against humanity committed in the territory of the former SFR Yugoslavia since 1 January 1991.\n\nThe indictees by ICTY ranged from common soldiers to Prime Ministers and Presidents. Some high-level indictees included Slobodan Milošević (President of Serbia), Milan Babić (president of the RSK), and Ante Gotovina (general of the Croatian Army). Franjo Tuđman (President of Croatia) died in 1999 of cancer while the ICTY's prosecutors were still investigating him. According to Marko Attila Hoare, a former employee at the ICTY, an investigative team worked on indictments of senior members of the \"joint criminal enterprise\", including not only Milošević, but Veljko Kadijević, Blagoje Adžić, Borisav Jović, Branko Kostić, Momir Bulatović and others. These drafts were rejected, reportedly upon the intervention of Carla del Ponte and the indictment limited to Milošević.\n\nAs of 2018, the ICTY has convicted seven officials from the Serb/Montenegrin side and nobody from the Croatian side. Milan Martić received the largest sentence: 35 years in prison. Babić received 13 years. He expressed remorse for his role in the war, asking his \"Croat brothers to forgive him\". In 2007, two former Yugoslav army officers were sentenced for the Vukovar massacre at the ICTY in The Hague. Veselin Šljivančanin was sentenced to 10 years and Mile Mrkšić to 20 years in prison. Prosecutors stated that following the capture of Vukovar, the JNA handed over several hundred Croats to Serbian forces. Of these, at least 264 (mostly injured soldiers, but also two women and a 16-year-old child) were murdered and buried in mass graves in the neighborhood of Ovčara, on the outskirts of Vukovar. The city's mayor, Slavko Dokmanović, was brought to trial at the ICTY, but committed suicide in 1998 in captivity before proceedings began.\n\nGenerals Pavle Strugar and Miodrag Jokić were sentenced by the ICTY to eight and seven years, respectively, for shelling Dubrovnik. A third indictee, Vladimir Kovačević, was declared mentally unfit to stand trial. The Yugoslav Army's Chief of the General Staff, Momčilo Perišić, was charged with aiding and abetting war crimes but eventually acquitted on all charges. Ex-RSK President Goran Hadžić died during the trial. In 2018, Vojislav Šešelj was sentenced to 10 years for crimes against humanity perpetrated through persecution and deportation of Croats from Vojvodina in 1992, while he was also given an additional cumulative sentence of 4 years and 9 months for contempt of court. As of 2018, the trials of Jovica Stanišić and Franko Simatović and are still pending.\n\nA number of Croat civilians in hospitals and shelters marked with a red cross were targeted by Serb forces. There were numerous well-documented war crimes against civilians and prisoners of war perpetrated by Serb and Yugoslav forces in Croatia: the Dalj killings, the Lovas massacre, the Široka Kula massacre, the Baćin massacre, the Saborsko massacre, the Škabrnja massacre, the Voćin massacre, and the Zagreb rocket attacks.\nThere were a number of prison camps where Croatian POWs and civilians were detained, including the Sremska Mitrovica camp, the Stajićevo camp, and the Begejci camp in Serbia, and the Morinj camp in Montenegro. The Croatian Association of Prisoners in Serbian Concentration Camps was later founded in order to help the victims of prison abuse. The Croatian Army established detention camps, like Lora prison camp in Split.\n\nCroatian war crimes included the Gospić massacre, the killings in Sisak in 1991 and 1992, and others, which were likewise prosecuted by Croatian courts or the ICTY. Another infamous instance of war crimes, in what would later become known as the \"Pakračka poljana\" case, committed by a reserve police unit commanded by Tomislav Merčep, involved the killing of prisoners, mostly ethnic Serbs, near Pakrac in late 1991 and early 1992. The events were initially investigated by the ICTY, but the case was eventually transferred to the Croatian judiciary. More than a decade later, five members of this unit, although not its commander, were indicted on criminal charges related to these events, and convicted. Merčep was arrested for these crimes in December 2010. In 2009, Branimir Glavaš, a Croatian incumbent MP at the time, was convicted of war crimes committed in Osijek in 1991 and sentenced to jail by a Croatian court.\n\nThe ICTY indicted Croatian officers Janko Bobetko, Rahim Ademi and Mirko Norac, for crimes committed during Operation Medak Pocket, but that case was also transferred to Croatian courts. Norac was found guilty and jailed for 7 years; Ademi was acquitted. Bobetko was declared unfit to stand trial due to poor health. The ICTY's indictment against General Ante Gotovina cited at least 150 Serb civilians killed in the aftermath of Operation Storm. The Croatian Helsinki Committee registered 677 Serb civilians killed in the operation. Louise Arbour, a prosecutor of the ICTY, stated that the legality and legitimacy of the Operation itself was not the issue, but that the ICTY was required to investigate whether crimes were committed during the campaign. The Trial Chamber reiterated that the legality of Operation Storm is \"irrelevant\" for the case at hand, since the ICTY's remit is processing war crimes. In 2011, Gotovina was sentenced to 24 and Markač to 18 years in prison. In 2012, their convictions were overturned and both were immediately released. Čermak was acquitted of all charges.\n\nIn the first-degree verdict, the trial chamber found that \"certain members of the Croatian political and military leadership shared the common objective of the permanent removal of the Serb civilian population from the Krajina by force or threat of force\", implicating Franjo Tuđman, Gojko Šušak, who was the Minister of Defence and a close associate of Tuđman's, and Zvonimir Červenko, the Chief of the Croatian army Main Staff. Nevertheless, in the second-degree verdict, the appeals chamber dismissed the notion of such a joint criminal enterprise. The verdict meant the ICTY convicted no Croats for their role in the Croatian War of Independence.\n\nWhile Serbia and Croatia never declared war on each other, Serbia was directly and indirectly involved in the war through a number of activities. Its foremost involvement entailed material support of the JNA. Following the independence of various republics from SFR Yugoslavia, Serbia provided the bulk of manpower and funding that was channeled to the war effort through Serbian control of the Yugoslav presidency and the federal defense ministry. Serbia actively supported various paramilitary volunteer units from Serbia that were fighting in Croatia. Even though no actual fighting occurred on Serbian or Montenegrin soil, involvement of the two was evident through the maintenance of prison camps in Serbia and Montenegro, which became places where a number of war crimes were committed.\n\nMilošević's trial at the ICTY revealed numerous declassified documents of Belgrade's involvement in the wars in Croatia and Bosnia. Evidence introduced at trial showed exactly how Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia financed the war, that they provided weapons and material support to Bosnian and Croatian Serbs, and demonstrated the administrative and personnel structures set up to support the Bosnian Serb and Croatian Serb armies. It was established that Belgrade, through the federal government, financed more than 90 percent of the Krajina budget in 1993; that the Supreme Defense Council decided to hide aid to Republika Srpska and Krajina from the public; that the National Bank of Krajina operated as a branch office of the National Bank of Yugoslavia; and that by March 1994 FR Yugoslavia, Krajina, and Republika Srpska used a single currency. Numerous documents demonstrated that branches of the Krajina Public Accountancy Service were incorporated into Serbia's accountancy system in May 1991, and that the financing of Krajina and Republika Srpska caused hyperinflation in FR Yugoslavia. The trial revealed that the JNA, the Serbian Ministry of Interior, and other entities (including Serb civilian groups and police) armed Serb civilians and local territorial defense groups in the RSK before the conflict escalated.\n\nIn 1993, the US State Department reported that right after the Maslenica and Medak pocket operations, authorities in Serbia dispatched substantial numbers of \"volunteers\" to Serb-held territories in Croatia to fight. A former secretary of Serbian criminal Željko Ražnatović Arkan testified at the Hague, confirming that the paramilitary leader took his orders, and his money, directly from the secret police run by Milošević.\n\nThis degree of control was reflected in negotiations held at various times between Croatian authorities and the RSK, as the Serbian leadership under Milošević was regularly consulted and frequently made decisions on behalf of the RSK. The Erdut Agreement that ended the war was signed by a RSK minister on instructions from Milošević. The degree of control Serbia held over SFR Yugoslavia and later the RSK was evidenced through testimonies during the Milošević trial at the ICTY.\n\nSerbia's state-run media were reportedly used to incite the conflict and further inflame the situation, and also to broadcast false information about the war and the state of the Serbian economy.\n\nAfter the successful implementation of the Erdut Agreement which ended armed conflict in 1995, the relations between Croatia and Serbia gradually improved and the two countries established diplomatic relations in 1996.\n\nIn a case before the International Court of Justice, Croatia filed a suit against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on 2 July 1999, citing Article IX of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. With the transformation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia into Serbia and Montenegro and the dissolution of that country in 2006, Serbia is considered its legal successor. The application was filed for Croatia by a U.S. lawyer, David B. Rivkin. Serbia reciprocated with the genocide lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia on 4 January 2010. The Serbian application covers missing people, killed people, refugees, expelled people, and all military actions and concentration camps with a historical account of World War II persecution of Serbs committed by the Independent State of Croatia during World War II.\n\nBy 2010, Croatia and Serbia further improved their relations through an agreement to resolve remaining refugee issues, and visits of Croatian President Ivo Josipović to Belgrade, and of the Serbian President Boris Tadić to Zagreb and Vukovar. During their meeting in Vukovar, President Tadić gave a statement expressing his \"apology and regret\", while President Josipović said \"that no crimes committed at the time would go unpunished.\" The statements were made during a joint visit to the Ovčara memorial center, site of the Vukovar massacre.\n\nThe war developed at a time when the attention of the United States and the world was on Iraq, and the Gulf War in 1991, along with a sharp rise in oil prices and a slowdown in the growth of the world economy.\n\nBetween 19 and 23 December, several other European countries, beginning with Germany and the Vatican City, followed by Sweden and Italy, announced their recognition of Croatia's (and Slovenia's) independence. The European Union as a whole recognized the independence of the two republics on 15 January 1992.\n\nEach of the major foreign governments acted somewhat differently:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51074017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51074017", "title": "Department for Exiting the European Union", "text": "Department for Exiting the European Union\n\nThe Department for Exiting the European Union (DExEU; also known as the Brexit Department) is the government department of the United Kingdom responsible for overseeing negotiations relating to the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union and establishing the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU. It was formed by the Prime Minister, Theresa May, in July 2016, in the wake of the referendum vote to leave the European Union.\n\nThe department was formed by combining staff from the Cabinet Office’s Europe Unit, the Europe Directorate of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and the United Kingdom's Permanent Representation to the EU, and may take on staff from other government departments as necessary. The department was overseen by David Davis MP, until he resigned on 8 July 2018. Dominic Raab was appointed as Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union on 9 July 2018, but resigned on 15 November 2018 over the draft withdrawal agreement. His replacement was announced on 16 November 2018 to be Stephen Barclay.\n\nThe Ministers in the Department for Exiting the European Union are as follows:\n\nThe Permanent Secretary at the Department for Exiting the European Union was Oliver Robbins. In September 2017, Robbins left the Department as the prime minister appointed him the EU adviser in the Cabinet Office. In October 2017, Philip Rycroft was appointed the new Permanent Secretary, having previously been the Department's Second Permanent Secretary.\n\nIn March 2018 government data stated the Department had 636 full-time equivalent posts, rising to 651 in August 2018 (excluding contractors, management consultants and faststreamers) on an average (mean) monthy wage of £5,890 including allowances.\n"}
{"id": "37514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37514", "title": "Depleted uranium", "text": "Depleted uranium\n\nDepleted uranium (DU; also referred to in the past as Q-metal, depletalloy or D-38) is uranium with a lower content of the fissile isotope U-235 than natural uranium. Natural uranium contains about 0.72% U-235, while the DU used by the U.S. Department of Defense contains 0.3% U-235 or less. Uses of DU take advantage of its very high density of 19.1 g/cm (68.4% denser than lead). The less radioactive and non-fissile uranium-238 constitutes the main component of depleted uranium.\n\nCivilian uses include counterweights in aircraft, radiation shielding in medical radiation therapy and industrial radiography equipment, and containers for transporting radioactive materials. Military uses include armor plating and armor-piercing projectiles.\n\nMost depleted uranium arises as a by-product of the production of enriched uranium for use as fuel in nuclear reactors and in the manufacture of nuclear weapons. Enrichment processes generate uranium with a higher-than-natural concentration of lower-mass-number uranium isotopes (in particular U-235, which is the uranium isotope supporting the fission chain reaction) with the bulk of the feed ending up as depleted uranium, in some cases with mass fractions of U-235 and U-234 less than a third of those in natural uranium. Since U-238 has a much longer half-life than the lighter isotopes, DU emits less alpha radiation than natural uranium. DU from nuclear reprocessing has different isotopic ratios from enrichment–by-product DU, from which it can be distinguished by the presence of U-236. As per articles in The Lancet and Al Jazeera, DU due to American artillery is suspected to be one of the major causes of an increase in the general mortality rate in Iraq since 1991.\n\nDU used in US munitions has 60% of the radioactivity of natural uranium. Trace transuranics (another indicator of the use of reprocessed material) have been reported to be present in some US tank armor.\n\nThe use of DU in munitions is controversial because of concerns about potential long-term health effects. Normal functioning of the kidney, brain, liver, heart, and numerous other systems can be affected by exposure to uranium, a toxic metal. It is only weakly radioactive because of its long radioactive half-life (4.468 billion years for uranium-238, 700 million years for uranium-235; or 1 part per million every and years, respectively). The biological half-life (the average time it takes for the human body to eliminate half the amount in the body) for uranium is about 15 days. The aerosol or spallation frangible powder produced by impact and combustion of depleted uranium munitions can potentially contaminate wide areas around the impact sites, leading to possible inhalation by human beings.\n\nThe actual level of acute and chronic toxicity of DU is also controversial. Several studies using cultured cells and laboratory rodents suggest the possibility of leukemogenic, genetic, reproductive, and neurological effects from chronic exposure. A 2005 epidemiology review concluded: \"In aggregate the human epidemiological evidence is consistent with increased risk of birth defects in offspring of persons exposed to DU.\"\n\nEnriched uranium was first manufactured in the early 1940s when the United States and Britain began their nuclear weapons programs. Later in the decade, France and the Soviet Union began their nuclear weapons and nuclear power programs. Depleted uranium was originally stored as an unusable waste product (uranium hexafluoride) in the hope that improved enrichment processes could extract additional quantities of the fissionable U-235 isotope. This re-enrichment recovery of the residual uranium-235 is now in practice in some parts of the world; e.g. in 1996 over 6000 metric tonnes were upgraded in a Russian plant.\n\nIt is possible to design civilian power-generating reactors using unenriched fuel, but only about 10% of those ever built (such as the CANDU reactor) utilize that technology. Thus most civilian reactors as well as all naval reactors and nuclear weapons production require fuel containing concentrated U-235 and generate depleted Uranium.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Pentagon reported that the Soviet military had developed armor plating for Warsaw Pact tanks that NATO ammunition could not penetrate. The Pentagon began searching for material to make denser armor-piercing projectiles. After testing various metals, ordnance researchers settled on depleted uranium.\n\nThe US and NATO militaries used DU penetrator rounds in the 1991 Gulf War, the Bosnia war, bombing of Serbia, the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and 2015 airstrikes on ISIS in Syria. It is estimated that between 315 and 350 tons of DU were used in the 1991 Gulf War.\n\nNatural uranium metal contains about 0.71% U-235, 99.28% U-238, and about 0.0054% U-234. The production of enriched uranium using isotope separation creates \"depleted uranium\" containing only 0.2% to 0.4% U-235. Because natural uranium begins with such a low percentage of U-235, enrichment produces large quantities of depleted uranium. For example, producing 1 kg of 5% enriched uranium requires 11.8 kg of natural uranium, and leaves about 10.8 kg of depleted uranium having only 0.3% U-235.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) defines \"depleted uranium\" as uranium with a percentage of the U isotope that is less than 0.711% by weight (see 10 CFR 40.4). The military specifications designate that the DU used by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) contain less than 0.3% U. In actuality, DoD uses only DU that contains approximately 0.2% U.\n\nDepleted uranium is further produced by recycling spent nuclear fuel, in which case it contains traces of neptunium and plutonium. Quantities are so small that they are considered to be not of serious radiological significance (even) by ECRR.\n\nMost depleted uranium is stored as uranium hexafluoride, a toxic crystalline solid, (D)UF, in steel cylinders in open air storage yards close to enrichment plants. Each cylinder holds up to 12.7 tonnes (14 short tons) of UF. In the U.S. 560,000 tonnes of depleted UF had accumulated by 1993. In 2008, 686,500 tonnes in 57,122 storage cylinders were located near Portsmouth, Ohio; Oak Ridge, Tennessee; and Paducah, Kentucky.\n\nThe storage of DUF presents environmental, health, and safety risks because of its chemical instability. When UF is exposed to water vapor in the air, it reacts with the moisture to produce UOF (uranyl fluoride), a solid, and HF (hydrogen fluoride), a gas, both of which are highly soluble and toxic. The uranyl fluoride solid acts to plug the leak, limiting further escape of depleted UF. Release of the hydrogen fluoride gas to the atmosphere is also slowed by the plug formation. Storage cylinders are regularly inspected for signs of corrosion and leaks, and are repainted and repaired as necessary. \n\nLike any other uranium compound, it is radioactive, and precautions should be taken. It is also highly toxic. Uranyl fluoride is corrosive and harmful upon inhalation, ingestion, or skin absorption. Ingestion or inhalation may be fatal. Effects of exposure may be delayed.\n\nThere have been several accidents involving uranium hexafluoride in the United States, including one in which 32 workers were exposed to a cloud of UF and its reaction products in 1986 at a Gore, Oklahoma commercial uranium conversion facility. One person died; while a few workers with higher exposure experienced short-term kidney damage (e.g., protein in the urine), none of them showed lasting damage from the exposure to uranium. The U.S. government has been converting depleted UF to solid uranium oxides for use or disposal. Such disposal of the entire DUF inventory could cost anywhere from $15 million to $450 million.\n\nDepleted uranium is very dense; at 19,050 kg/m³, it is 1.67 times as dense as lead, only slightly less dense than tungsten and gold, and 84% as dense as osmium or iridium, which are the densest known substances under standard (i.e., Earth-surface) pressures. Consequently, a DU projectile of given mass has a smaller diameter than an equivalent lead projectile, with less aerodynamic drag and deeper penetration due to a higher pressure at point of impact. DU projectile ordnance is often inherently incendiary because uranium is flammable.\n\nBecause of its high density, depleted uranium can also be used in tank armor, sandwiched between sheets of steel armor plate. For instance, some late-production M1A1HA and M1A2 Abrams tanks built after 1998 have DU modules integrated into their Chobham armor, as part of the armor plating in the front of the hull and the front of the turret, and there is a program to upgrade the rest.\n\nDepleted uranium can be used as a tamper, or neutron reflector, in fission bombs. A high density tamper like DU makes for a longer-lasting, more energetic, and more efficient explosion.\n\nMost military use of depleted uranium has been as 30 mm ordnance, primarily the 30 mm PGU-14/B armour-piercing incendiary round from the GAU-8 Avenger cannon of the A-10 Thunderbolt II used by the United States Air Force. 25 mm DU rounds have been used in the M242 gun mounted on the U.S. Army's Bradley Fighting Vehicle and the Marine Corps's LAV-25.\n\nThe U.S. Marine Corps uses DU in the 25 mm PGU-20 round fired by the GAU-12 Equalizer cannon of the AV-8B Harrier, and also in the 20 mm M197 gun mounted on AH-1 Cobra helicopter gunships. The United States Navy's Phalanx CIWS's M61 Vulcan Gatling gun used 20 mm armor-piercing penetrator rounds with discarding plastic sabots and a core made using depleted uranium, later changed to tungsten.\n\nAnother use of depleted uranium is in kinetic energy penetrators, anti-armor rounds such as the 120 mm sabot rounds fired from the British Challenger 1, Challenger 2, M1A1 and M1A2 Abrams. Kinetic energy penetrator rounds consist of a long, relatively thin penetrator surrounded by a discarding sabot. Staballoys are metal alloys of depleted uranium with a very small proportion of other metals, usually titanium or molybdenum. One formulation has a composition of 99.25% by mass of depleted uranium and 0.75% by mass of titanium. Staballoys are approximately 1.67 times as dense as lead and are designed for use in kinetic energy penetrator armor-piercing ammunition. The US Army uses DU in an alloy with around 3.5% titanium.\n\nDepleted uranium is favored for the penetrator because it is self-sharpening and flammable. On impact with a hard target, such as an armored vehicle, the nose of the rod fractures in such a way that it remains sharp. The impact and subsequent release of heat energy causes it to ignite. When a DU penetrator reaches the interior of an armored vehicle, it catches fire, often igniting ammunition and fuel, killing the crew and possibly causing the vehicle to explode. DU is used by the U.S. Army in 120 mm or 105 mm cannons employed on the M1 Abrams tank. The Russian military has used DU ammunition in tank main gun ammunition since the late 1970s, mostly for the 115 mm guns in the T-62 tank and the 125 mm guns in the T-64, T-72, T-80, and T-90 tanks.\n\nThe DU content in various ammunition is 180 g in 20 mm projectiles, 200 g in 25 mm ones, 280 g in 30 mm, 3.5 kg in 105 mm, and 4.5 kg in 120 mm penetrators. DU was used during the mid-1990s in the U.S. to make hand grenades, and land mines, but those applications have been discontinued, according to Alliant Techsystems. The US Navy used DU in its 20 mm Phalanx CIWS guns, but switched in the late 1990s to armor-piercing tungsten.\n\nOnly the US and the UK have acknowledged using DU weapons. 782,414 DU rounds were fired during the 1991 war in Iraq, mostly by US forces. According to an international legal team preparing a lawsuit against NATO, 10–15 tons of depleted uranium was used during the 1999 bombing of Yugoslavia. In a three-week period of conflict in Iraq during 2003, it was estimated that over 1000 tons of depleted uranium munitions were used. More than 300,000 DU rounds were fired during the 2003 war, the vast majority by US troops.\n\nAccording to 2005 research, at least some of the most promising tungsten alloys that have been considered as replacement for depleted uranium in penetrator ammunitions, such as tungsten-cobalt or tungsten-nickel-cobalt alloys, also possess carcinogenic properties: rats implanted with a pellet of such alloys developed lethal rhabdomyosarcoma within a few weeks.\n\nIn 1996, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) gave an advisory opinion on the \"legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons\". This made it clear, in paragraphs 54, 55 and 56, that international law on poisonous weapons—the Second Hague Declaration of 29 July 1899, Hague Convention IV of 18 October 1907 and the Geneva Protocol of 17 June 1925—did not cover nuclear weapons, because their prime or exclusive use was not to poison or asphyxiate. This ICJ opinion was about nuclear weapons, but the sentence \"The terms have been understood, in the practice of States, in their ordinary sense as covering weapons whose prime, or even exclusive, effect is to poison or asphyxiate,\" also removes depleted uranium weaponry from coverage by the same treaties as their primary use is not to poison or asphyxiate, but to destroy materiel and kill soldiers through kinetic energy.\n\nThe Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities of the United Nations Human Rights Commission, passed two motions — the first in 1996 and the second in 1997. They listed weapons of mass destruction, or weapons with indiscriminate effect, or of a nature to cause superfluous injury or unnecessary suffering and urged all states to curb the production and the spread of such weapons. Included in the list was weaponry containing depleted uranium. The committee authorized a working paper, in the context of human rights and humanitarian norms, of the weapons.\n\nThe requested UN working paper was delivered in 2002 by Y. K. J. Yeung Sik Yuen in accordance with Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights resolution 2001/36. He argues that the use of DU in weapons, along with the other weapons listed by the Sub‑Commission, may breach one or more of the following treaties: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Charter of the United Nations, the Genocide Convention, the United Nations Convention Against Torture, the Geneva Conventions including Protocol I, the Convention on Conventional Weapons of 1980, and the Chemical Weapons Convention. Yeung Sik Yuen writes in Paragraph 133 under the title \"Legal compliance of weapons containing DU as a new weapon\":\n\nLouise Arbour, chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia led a committee of staff lawyers to investigate possible treaty prohibitions against the use of DU in weapons. Their findings were that:\n\nA number of academics specializing in international humanitarian law have questioned the legality of the continued use of depleted uranium weapons, highlighting that the effects may breach the principle of distinction (between civilians and military personnel). Some states and the International Coalition to Ban Uranium Weapons, a coalition of more than 155 non-governmental organizations, have asked for a ban on the production and military use of depleted uranium weapons.\n\nThe European Parliament has repeatedly passed resolutions requesting an immediate moratorium on the further use of depleted uranium ammunition, but France and Britain – the only EU states that are permanent members of the United Nations Security Council – have consistently rejected calls for a ban, maintaining that its use continues to be legal, and that the health risks are unsubstantiated.\n\nIn 2007, France, Britain, the Netherlands, and the Czech Republic voted against a United Nations General Assembly resolution to hold a debate in 2009 about the effects of the use of armaments and ammunitions containing depleted uranium. All other European Union nations voted in favour or abstained. The ambassador from the Netherlands explained his negative vote as being due to the reference in the preamble to the resolution \"to potential harmful effects of the use of depleted uranium munitions on human health and the environment [which] cannot, in our view, be supported by conclusive scientific studies conducted by relevant international organizations.\" None of the other permanent members of the United Nations Security Council supported the resolution as China was absent for the vote, Russia abstained and the United States voted against the resolution.\n\nIn September 2008, and in response to the 2007 General Assembly resolution, the UN Secretary General published the views of 15 states alongside those of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and World Health Organization (WHO). The IAEA and WHO evidence differed little from previous statements on the issue. The report was largely split between states concerned about depleted uranium's use, such as Finland, Cuba, Japan, Serbia, Argentina, and predominantly NATO members, who do not consider the use of depleted uranium munitions problematic.\n\nIn December 2008, 141 states supported a resolution requesting that three UN agencies: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), WHO and IAEA update their research on the impact of uranium munitions by late 2010 – to coincide with the General Assembly's 65th Session, four voted against, 34 abstained and 13 were absent As before Britain and France voted against the resolution. All other European Union nations voted in favour or abstained: the Netherlands, which voted against a resolution in 2007, voted in favour, as did Finland and Norway, both of which had abstained in 2007, while the Czech Republic, which voted against the resolution in 2007, abstained. The two other states that voted against the resolution were Israel and the United States (both of which voted against in 2007), while as before China was absent for the vote, and Russia abstained.\n\nOn 21 June 2009, Belgium became the first country in the world to ban: \"inert ammunition and armour that contains depleted uranium or any other industrially manufactured uranium.\" The move followed a unanimous parliamentary vote on the issue on 22 March 2007. The text of the 2007 law allowed for two years to pass until it came into force. In April 2009, the Belgian Senate voted unanimously to restrict investments by Belgian banks into the manufacturers of depleted uranium weapons.\n\nIn September 2009, the Latin American Parliament passed a resolution calling for a regional moratorium on the use, production and procurement of uranium weapons. It also called on the Parlatino's members to work towards an international uranium weapons treaty.\n\nIn December 2010, 148 states supported a United Nations' General Assembly resolution calling for the states that use depleted uranium weapons in conflict to reveal where the weapons have been fired when asked to do so by the country upon whose territory they have been used.\n\nIn April 2011, the Congress of Costa Rica passed a law prohibiting uranium weapons in its territories, becoming the second country in the world to do so. In November 2010 the Irish Senate passed a bill seeking to outlaw depleted uranium weapons, but it lapsed before approval by the Dáil.\n\nIn December 2012, 155 states supported a United Nations' General Assembly resolution that recalled that, because of the ongoing uncertainties over the long-term environmental impacts of depleted uranium identified by the United Nations Environment Programme, states should adopt a precautionary approach to its use.\n\nIn December 2014, 150 states supported a United Nations' General Assembly resolution encouraging states to provide assistance to states affected by the use of depleted uranium weapons, in particular in identifying and managing contaminated sites and material. In contrast to the previous biennial resolutions, Germany moved to an abstention from supporting to the resolutions. Prior to the vote, in a report to the United Nations Secretary General requested by 2012's resolution published in June 2014, Iraq had called for a global treaty ban on depleted uranium weapons.\n\nDepleted uranium has a very high density and is primarily used as shielding material for other radioactive material, and as ballast. Examples include sailboat keels, as counterweights and as shielding in industrial radiography cameras.\n\nIndustrial radiography cameras include a very high activity gamma radiation source (typically Ir-192 with an activity above 10 TBq). Depleted uranium is often used in the cameras as a shield to protect individuals from the gamma source. Typically, the uranium shield is supported and enclosed in polyurethane foam for thermal, mechanical and oxidation protection.\n\nConsumer product uses have included incorporation into dental porcelain, used for false teeth to simulate the fluorescence of natural teeth, and uranium-bearing reagents used in chemistry laboratories (e.g. uranyl acetate, used in analytical chemistry and as a stain in electron microscopy). Uranium (both depleted uranium and natural uranium) was widely used as a coloring matter for porcelain and glass in the 19th and early-to-mid-20th century. The practice was largely discontinued in the late 20th century. In 1999, concentrations of 10% depleted uranium were being used in \"jaune no.17\" a yellow enamel powder that was being produced in France by Cristallerie de Saint-Paul, a manufacturer of enamel pigments. The depleted uranium used in the powder was sold by Cogéma's Pierrelatte facility. In February 2000, Cogema discontinued the sale of depleted uranium to producers of enamel and glass.\n\nAircraft that contain depleted uranium trim weights for stabilizing wings and control surfaces (such as the Boeing 747–100) may contain between 400 and 1,500 kg of DU. This application is controversial because the DU might enter the environment if the aircraft crashes. The metal can also oxidize to a fine powder in a fire. Its use has been phased out in many newer aircraft. Boeing and McDonnell-Douglas discontinued using DU counterweights in the 1980s. Depleted uranium was released during the crash of El Al Flight 1862 on 4 October 1992, in which 152 kg was lost, but a case study concluded that there was no evidence to link depleted uranium from the plane to any health problems. Counterweights manufactured with cadmium plating are considered non-hazardous while the plating is intact.\n\nUS Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations at 10 CFR 40.25 establish a general license for the use of depleted uranium contained in industrial products or devices for mass-volume applications. This general license allows anyone to possess or use depleted uranium for authorized purposes. Generally, a registration form is required, along with a commitment to not abandon the material. Agreement states may have similar, or more stringent, regulations.\n\n\"Pen Duick VI\", a boat designed by and used for racing, was equipped with a keel of depleted uranium. The benefit is that, due to the very high density of uranium, the keel could be thinner for a given weight, and so have less resistance than a normal keel. It was later replaced by a standard lead keel.\n\nDepleted uranium has been used in a number of sampling calorimeters (such as in the D0 and ZEUS detectors) due to its high density and natural radioactivity.\n\nNormal functioning of the kidney, brain, liver, heart, and numerous other systems can be affected by uranium exposure because, in addition to being weakly radioactive, uranium is a toxic metal, although less toxic than other heavy metals, such as arsenic and mercury. It is weakly radioactive but is 'persistently' so because of its long half-life. The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry states that: \"to be exposed to radiation from uranium, you have to eat, drink, or breathe it, or get it on your skin.\" If DU particles do enter an individual, the type of danger presented—toxic vs. radiological—and the organ most likely to be affected depend on the solubility of the particles.\n\nIn military conflicts involving DU munitions, the major concern is inhalation of DU particles in aerosols arising from the impacts of DU-enhanced projectiles with their targets. When depleted uranium munitions penetrate armor or burn, they create depleted uranium oxides in the form of dust that can be inhaled or contaminate wounds. The Institute of Nuclear Technology-Radiation Protection of Attiki, Greece, has noted that \"the aerosol produced during impact and combustion of depleted uranium munitions can potentially contaminate wide areas around the impact sites or can be inhaled by civilians and military personnel\". The utilisation of DU in incendiary ammunition is controversial because of potential adverse health effects and its release into the environment.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense claims that no human cancer of any type has been seen as a result of exposure to either natural or depleted uranium. Militaries have long had risk-reduction procedures for their troops to follow, and studies are in consistent agreement that veterans who used DU-enhanced munitions have not suffered, so far, from an increased risk of cancer (see the Gulf War and Balkans sections below). The effects of DU on civilian populations are, however, a topic of intense and ongoing controversy.\n\nAs early as 1997, British Army doctors warned the Ministry of Defence that exposure to depleted uranium increased the risk of developing lung, lymph and brain cancer, and recommended a series of safety precautions. According to a report issued summarizing the advice of the doctors, \"Inhalation of insoluble uranium dioxide dust will lead to accumulation in the lungs with very slow clearance—if any. … Although chemical toxicity is low, there may be localised radiation damage of the lung leading to cancer.\" The report warns that \"All personnel … should be aware that uranium dust inhalation carries a long-term risk … [the dust] has been shown to increase the risks of developing lung, lymph and brain cancers.\" In 2003, the Royal Society called, again, for urgent attention to be paid to the possible health and environmental impact of depleted uranium, and added its backing to the United Nations Environment Programme's call for a scientific assessment of sites struck with depleted uranium. In early 2004, the UK Pensions Appeal Tribunal Service attributed birth defect claims from a February 1991 Gulf War combat veteran to depleted uranium poisoning. Also, a 2005 epidemiology review concluded: \"In aggregate the human epidemiological evidence is consistent with increased risk of birth defects in offspring of persons exposed to DU.\" Studies using cultured cells and laboratory rodents continue to suggest the possibility of leukemogenic, genetic, reproductive, and neurological effects from chronic exposure.\n\nThe chemical toxicity of depleted uranium is identical to that of natural uranium and about a million times greater \"in vivo\" than DU's radiological hazard, with the kidney considered to be the main target organ. Health effects of DU are determined by factors such as the extent of exposure and whether it was internal or external. Three main pathways exist by which internalization of uranium may occur: inhalation, ingestion, and embedded fragments or shrapnel contamination. Properties such as phase (e.g. particulate or gaseous), oxidation state (e.g. metallic or ceramic), and the solubility of uranium and its compounds influence their absorption, distribution, translocation, elimination and the resulting toxicity. For example, metallic uranium is less toxic compared to hexavalent uranium(VI) uranyl compounds such as uranium trioxide.\n\nUranium is pyrophoric when finely divided. It will corrode under the influence of air and water producing insoluble uranium (IV) and soluble uranium (VI) salts. Soluble uranium salts are toxic. Uranium slowly accumulates in several organs, such as the liver, spleen, and kidneys. The World Health Organization has established a daily \"tolerated intake\" of soluble uranium salts for the general public of 0.5 µg/kg body weight, or 35 µg for a 70 kg adult.\n\nEpidemiological studies and toxicological tests on laboratory animals point to it as being immunotoxic, teratogenic, neurotoxic, with carcinogenic and leukemogenic potential. A 2005 report by epidemiologists concluded: \"the human epidemiological evidence is consistent with increased risk of birth defects in offspring of persons exposed to DU.\"\n\nEarly studies of depleted uranium aerosol exposure assumed that uranium combustion product particles would quickly settle out of the air and thus could not affect populations more than a few kilometers from target areas, and that such particles, if inhaled, would remain undissolved in the lung for a great length of time and thus could be detected in urine. Violently burning uranium droplets produce a gaseous vapor comprising about half of the uranium in their original mass. Uranyl ion contamination in uranium oxides has been detected in the residue of DU munitions fires.\n\nApproximately 90 micrograms of natural uranium, on average, exist in the human body as a result of normal intake of water, food and air. Most is in the skeleton. The biochemistry of depleted uranium is the same as natural uranium.\n\nThe primary radiation danger from pure depleted uranium is due to alpha particles, which do not travel far through air, and do not penetrate clothing. However, in a matter of a month or so, a sample of pure depleted uranium will generate small amounts of thorium-234 and protactinium-234, which emit the more penetrating beta particles at almost the same rate as the uranium emits alpha rays. This is because uranium-238 decays directly to thorium-234, which with a half-life of 24 days decays to protactinium-234, which in turn decays in a matter of hours to the long-lived uranium-234. A quasi-steady state is therefore reached within a few multiples of 24 days.\n\nAvailable evidence suggests that the radiation risk is small relative to the chemical hazard.\n\nSurveying the veteran-related evidence pertaining to the Gulf War, a 2001 editorial in the \"BMJ\" concluded that it was not possible to justify claims of radiation-induced lung cancer and leukaemia in veterans of that conflict. While agreeing with the editorial's conclusion, a reply noted that its finding in the negative was guaranteed, given that \"global dose estimates or results of mathematical modelling are too inaccurate to be used as dose values for an individual veteran\", and that, as of April 2001, no practical method of measuring the expected small doses that each individual veteran would receive had been suggested. The author of the reply, a radiation scientist, went on to suggest a method that had been used several times before, including after the 1986 Chernobyl accident. Despite the widespread use of DU in the Iraq War, at least a year after the conflict began, testing for UK troops was still only in the discussion phase.\n\nThe Royal Society DU Working Group concluded in 2002 that there were \"very low\" health risks associated with the use of depleted uranium, though also ventured that, \"[i]n extreme conditions and under worst-case assumptions\" lung and kidney damage could occur, and that in \"worst-case scenarios high local levels of uranium could occur in food or water that could have adverse effects on the kidney\". In 2003, the Royal Society issued another urgent call to investigate the actual health and environmental impact of depleted uranium. The same year, a cohort study of Gulf War veterans found no elevated risks of cancer generally, nor of any specific cancers in particular, though recommended follow up studies.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, a radiation dose from it would be about 60% of that from purified natural uranium with the same mass; the radiological dangers are lower due to its longer half-life and the removal of the more radioactive isotopes.\n\nSince 1991, the year the Gulf War ended, veterans and their families voiced concern about subsequent health problems. In 1999, an assessment of the first 1,000 veterans involved in the Ministry of Defence's Gulf War medical assessment programme found \"no evidence\" of a single illness, physical or mental, that would explain the pattern of symptoms observed in the group. Nevertheless, in 1999, MEDACT petitioned for the WHO to conduct an investigation into illnesses in veterans and Iraqi civilians. A major 2006 review of peer-reviewed literature by a US Institute of Medicine committee concluded that, \"[b]ecause the symptoms vary greatly among individuals\", they do not point to a syndrome unique to Gulf War veterans, though their report conceded that the lack of objective pre-deployment health data meant definitive conclusions were effectively impossible. Simon Wessely praised the IOM's review, and noted that, despite its central conclusion that no novel syndrome existed, its other findings made it \"equally clear that service in the Gulf war did aversely affect health in some personnel\". Aside from the lack of baseline data to guide analysis of the veterans' postwar health, because no detailed health screening was carried out when the veterans entered service, another major stumbling block with some studies, like the thousand-veteran one, is that the subjects are self-selected, rather than a random sample, making general conclusions impossible.\n\nIncreased rates of immune system disorders and other wide-ranging symptoms, including chronic pain, fatigue and memory loss, have been reported in over one quarter of combat veterans of the 1991 Gulf War. Combustion products from depleted uranium munitions are being considered as one of the potential causes by the Research Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses, as DU was used in 30 mm and 25 mm cannon rounds on a large scale for the first time in the Gulf War. Veterans of the conflicts in the Persian Gulf, Bosnia and Kosovo have been found to have up to 14 times the usual level of chromosome abnormalities in their genes. Serum-soluble genotoxic teratogens produce congenital disorders, and in white blood cells causes immune system damage.\n\nHuman epidemiological evidence is consistent with increased risk of birth defects in the offspring of persons exposed to DU. A 2001 study of 15,000 February 1991 U.S. Gulf War combat veterans and 15,000 control veterans found that the Gulf War veterans were 1.8 (fathers) to 2.8 (mothers) times as likely to have children with birth defects. After examination of children's medical records two years later, the birth defect rate increased by more than 20%:\n\nIn early 2004, the UK Pensions Appeal Tribunal Service attributed birth defect claims from a February 1991 Gulf War combat veteran to depleted uranium poisoning. Looking at the risk of children of UK Gulf War veterans suffering genetic diseases such as congenital malformations, commonly called \"birth defects\", one study found that the overall risk of any malformation was 50% higher in Gulf War veterans as compared to other veterans.\n\nThe U.S. Army has commissioned ongoing research into potential risks of depleted uranium and other projectile weapon materials like tungsten, which the U.S. Navy has used in place of DU since 1993. Studies by the U.S. Armed Forces Radiobiology Research Institute conclude that moderate exposures to either depleted uranium or uranium present a significant toxicological threat.\n\nIn 2003, Professor Brian Spratt FRS, chairman of the Royal Society's working group on depleted uranium, said: \"The question of who carries out the initial monitoring and clean-up is a political rather than scientific question,\" and \"the coalition needs to acknowledge that depleted uranium is a potential hazard and make in-roads into tackling it by being open about where and how much depleted uranium has been deployed.\"\n\nA 2008 review of all relevant articles appearing in the peer-reviewed journals on MEDLINE through to the end of 2007, including multiple cohort studies of veterans, found no consistent evidence of excess risks of neoplasms that could have some link to DU, and that \"[t]he overall incidence of cancers is not increased in the cohort studies of Gulf war and Balkans veterans\".\n\nThough a more comprehensive assessment is possible, a 2011 update on a cancer scare regarding Italian soldiers who had served in the Balkans found lower than expected incidence rates for all cancers, a finding \"consistent with lacking evidence of an increased cancer incidence among troops of other countries deployed in the areas of Iraq, Bosnia, and Kosovo, where armour-penetrating depleted uranium shells have been used.\"\n\nOne particular subgroup of veterans that may be at higher risk comprises those who have internally retained fragments of DU from shrapnel wounds. A laboratory study on rats produced by the Armed Forces Radiobiology Research Institute showed that, after a study period of 6 months, rats treated with depleted uranium coming from implanted pellets, comparable to the average levels in the urine of Desert Storm veterans with retained DU fragments, had developed a significant tendency to lose weight with respect to the control group.\n\nSubstantial amounts of uranium were accumulating in their brains and central nervous systems, and showed a significant reduction of neuronal activity in the hippocampus in response to external stimuli. The conclusions of the study show that brain damage from chronic uranium intoxication is possible at lower doses than previously thought. Results from computer-based neurocognitive tests performed in 1997 showed an association between uranium in the urine and \"problematic performance on automated tests assessing performance efficiency and accuracy.\"\n\nSince 2001, medical personnel at the Basra hospital in southern Iraq have reported a sharp increase in the incidence of child leukemia and genetic malformation among babies born in the decade following the Gulf War. Iraqi doctors attributed these malformations to possible long-term effects of DU, an opinion that was echoed by several newspapers. In 2004, Iraq had the highest mortality rate due to leukemia of any country. In 2003, the Royal Society called for Western militaries to disclose where and how much DU they had used in Iraq so that rigorous, and hopefully conclusive, studies could be undertaken out in affected areas. The International Coalition to Ban Uranium Weapons (ICBUW) likewise urged that an epidemiological study be made in the Basra region, as asked for by Iraqi doctors, but no peer-reviewed study has yet been undertaken in Basra.\n\nA medical survey, \"Cancer, Infant Mortality and Birth Sex Ratio in Fallujah, Iraq 2005–2009\" published in July 2010, states that the \"…increases in cancer and birth defects…are alarmingly high\" and that infant mortality 2009/2010 has reached 13.6%. The group compares the dramatic increase, five years after wartime exposure in 2004, with the lymphoma that Italian peacekeepers developed after the Balkan wars and the increased cancer risk in certain parts of Sweden due to the Chernobyl fallout. The origin and time of introduction of the carcinogenic agent causing the genetic stress the group will address in a separate report. The report mentions depleted uranium as one \"potentially relevant exposure\" but makes no conclusions on the source.\n\nFour studies in the second half of 2012—one of which described the people of Fallujah as having \"the highest rate of genetic damage in any population ever studied\"—renewed calls for the US and UK to investigate the possible links between their military assault on the city in 2004 and the explosion in deformities, cancers, and other serious health problems. Despite the known use of depleted uranium by allied forces, no depleted uranium has been found in soil samples taken from Fallujah, likely in part due to the fact of such particles being hard to detect as well as a lack of peer-reviewed research on the matter of irradiated soil content.\n\nIn 2001, the World Health Organization reported that data from Kosovo was inconclusive and called for further studies.\n\nA 2003 study by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Bosnia and Herzegovina stated that low levels of contaminant were found in drinking water and air particulate at DU penetrator impact points. The levels were stated as not a cause for alarm. Yet, Pekka Haavisto, chairman of the UNEP DU projects stated, \"The findings of this study stress again the importance of appropriate clean-up and civil protection measures in a post-conflict situation.\"\n\nA team of Italian scientists from the University of Siena reported in 2005 that, although DU was \"clearly\" added to the soil in the study area, \"the phenomenon was very limited spatially and the total uranium concentrations fell within the natural range of the element in soils. Moreover, the absolute uranium concentrations indicate that there was no contamination of the earthworm species studied.\"\n\nThe Canadian Uranium Medical Research Centre obtained urine samples from bombed civilian areas in Jalalabad that showed concentrations of 80–400 ng/L of undepleted uranium, far higher than the typical concentration in the British population of ≈5 ng/L.\n\nStudies in 2005 and earlier have concluded that DU ammunition has no measurable detrimental health effects.\n\nA 1999 literature review conducted by the Rand Corporation stated: \"No evidence is documented in the literature of cancer or any other negative health effect related to the radiation received from exposure to depleted or natural uranium, whether inhaled or ingested, even at very high doses,\" and a RAND report authored by the U.S. Defense department undersecretary charged with evaluating DU hazards considered the debate to be more political than scientific.\n\nA 2001 oncology study concluded that \"the present scientific consensus is that DU exposure to humans, in locations where DU ammunition was deployed, is very unlikely to give rise to cancer induction\". Former NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson stated in 2001 that \"the existing medical consensus is clear. The hazard from depleted uranium is both very limited, and limited to very specific circumstances\".\n\nA 2002 study from the Australian defense ministry concluded that \"there has been no established increase in mortality or morbidity in workers exposed to uranium in uranium processing industries... studies of Gulf War veterans show that, in those who have retained fragments of depleted uranium following combat related injury, it has been possible to detect elevated urinary uranium levels, but no kidney toxicity or other adverse health effects related to depleted uranium after a decade of follow-up.\" Pier Roberto Danesi, then-director of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Seibersdorf +Laboratory, stated in 2002 that \"There is a consensus now that DU does not represent a health threat\".\n\nThe IAEA reported in 2003 that, \"based on credible scientific evidence, there is no proven link between DU exposure and increases in human cancers or other significant health or environmental impacts,\" although \"Like other heavy metals, DU is potentially poisonous. In sufficient amounts, if DU is ingested or inhaled it can be harmful because of its chemical toxicity. High concentration could cause kidney damage.\" The IAEA concluded that, while depleted uranium is a potential carcinogen, there is no evidence that it has been carcinogenic in humans.\n\nA 2005 study by Sandia National Laboratories' Al Marshall used mathematical models to analyze potential health effects associated with accidental exposure to depleted uranium during the 1991 Gulf War. Marshall's study concluded that the reports of cancer risks from DU exposure are not supported by his analysis nor by veteran medical statistics. Marshall also examined possible genetic effects due to radiation from depleted uranium. Chemical effects, including potential reproductive issues, associated with depleted uranium exposure were discussed in some detail in a subsequent journal paper.\n\nElevated radiation levels consistent with very low level atmospheric depleted uranium contamination have been found in air samples taken by the UK Atomic Weapons Establishment at several monitoring sites in Britain. These elevated readings appear to coincide with Operation Anaconda in Afghanistan, and the Shock and Awe bombing campaign at the start of the Second Gulf War.\n\nOn 4 October 1992, an El Al Boeing 747-F cargo aircraft (Flight 1862) crashed into an apartment building in Amsterdam. Local residents and rescue workers complained of various unexplained health issues, which were being attributed to the release of hazardous materials during the crash and subsequent fires. Authorities conducted an epidemiological study in 2000 of those believed to be affected by the accident. The study concluded that there was no evidence to link depleted uranium (used as counterbalance weights on the elevators of the plane) to any of the reported health complaints.\n\nAbout 95% of the depleted uranium produced until now is stored as uranium hexafluoride, (D)UF, in steel cylinders in open air yards close to enrichment plants. Each cylinder contains up to 12.7 tonnes (or 14 US tons) of UF. In the U.S. alone, 560,000 tonnes of depleted UF had accumulated by 1993. In 2005, 686,500 tonnes in 57,122 storage cylinders were located near Portsmouth, Ohio, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and Paducah, Kentucky.\nThe long-term storage of DUF presents environmental, health, and safety risks because of its chemical instability. When UF is exposed to moist air, it reacts with the water in the air and produces UOF (uranyl fluoride) and HF (hydrogen fluoride), both of which are highly soluble and toxic. Storage cylinders must be regularly inspected for signs of corrosion and leaks. The estimated lifetime of the steel cylinders is measured in decades.\n\nThere have been several accidents involving uranium hexafluoride in the United States.\nThe vulnerability of DUF storage cylinders to terrorist attack is apparently not the subject of public reports. However, the U.S. government has been converting DUF to solid uranium oxides for disposal.\nDisposing of the whole DUF inventory could cost anywhere from 15 to 450 million dollars.\n\nScientific bodies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325746", "title": "Division of Korea", "text": "Division of Korea\n\nThe Division of Korea began at the end of World War II in 1945. With the defeat of Japan, the Soviet Union occupied the north of Korea, and the United States occupied the south, with the boundary between their zones being the 38th parallel.\n\nWith the onset of the Cold War, negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union failed to lead to an independent and unified Korea. In 1948, UN-supervised elections were held in the US-occupied south only. Syngman Rhee won the election while Kim Il-sung was appointed as the leader of North Korea. This led to the establishment of the Republic of Korea in South Korea, which was promptly followed by the establishment of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in North Korea. The United States supported the South, the Soviet Union supported the North, and each government claimed sovereignty over the whole Korean peninsula.\n\nThe subsequent Korean War, which lasted from 1950 to 1953, ended with a stalemate and has left the two Koreas separated by the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) up to the present day. Diplomatic initiatives have so far failed to end the division.\n\nWhen the Russo-Japanese War ended in 1905 Korea became a nominal protectorate of Japan, and was annexed by Japan in 1910. The Korean Emperor Gojong was removed. In the following decades, nationalist and radical groups emerged, mostly in exile, to struggle for independence. Divergent in their outlooks and approaches, these groups failed to unite in one national movement. The Korean Provisional Government in China failed to obtain widespread recognition.\n\nAt the Cairo Conference in November 1943, in the middle of World War Two, Franklin Roosevelt, Winston Churchill and Chiang Kai-shek agreed that Japan should lose all the territories it had conquered by force. At the end of the conference, the three powers declared that they were, \"mindful of the enslavement of the people of Korea, ... determined that in due course Korea shall become free and independent.\" Roosevelt floated the idea of a trusteeship over Korea, but did not obtain agreement from the other powers. Roosevelt raised the idea with Joseph Stalin at the Tehran Conference in November 1943 and the Yalta Conference in February 1945. Stalin did not disagree, but advocated that the period of trusteeship be short.\n\nAt the Tehran and Yalta Conferences, Stalin promised to join his allies in the Pacific War in two to three months after victory in Europe. On August 8, 1945, three months to the day after the end of hostilities in Europe, and two days after the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, the Soviet Union declared war on Japan. As war began, the Commander-in-Chief of Soviet Forces in the Far East, Marshal Aleksandr Vasilevsky, called on Koreans to rise up against Japan, saying \"a banner of liberty and independence is rising in Seoul\".\n\nSoviet troops advanced rapidly, and the US government became anxious that they would occupy the whole of Korea. On August 10, 1945 two young officers – Dean Rusk and Charles Bonesteel – were assigned to define an American occupation zone. Working on extremely short notice and completely unprepared, they used a \"National Geographic\" map to decide on the 38th parallel. They chose it because it divided the country approximately in half but would place the capital Seoul under American control. No experts on Korea were consulted. The two men were unaware that forty years before, Japan and pre-revolutionary Russia had discussed sharing Korea along the same parallel. Rusk later said that had he known, he \"almost surely\" would have chosen a different line. The division placed sixteen million Koreans in the American zone and nine million in the Soviet zone. To the surprise of the Americans, the Soviet Union immediately accepted the division. The agreement was incorporated into General Order No. 1 (approved on 17 August 1945) for the surrender of Japan.\n\nSoviet forces began amphibious landings in Korea by August 14 and rapidly took over the north-east of the country, and on August 16 they landed at Wonsan. On August 24, the Red Army reached Pyongyang.\n\nGeneral Abe Nobuyuki, the last Japanese Governor-General of Korea, had established contact with a number of influential Koreans since the beginning of August 1945 to prepare the hand-over of power. Throughout August, Koreans organized people's committee branches for the \"Committee for the Preparation of Korean Independence\" (CPKI, 조선건국준비위원회), led by Lyuh Woon-hyung, a left-wing politician. On September 6, 1945, a congress of representatives was convened in Seoul and founded the short-lived People's Republic of Korea. In the spirit of consensus, conservative elder statesman Syngman Rhee, who was living in exile in the US, was nominated as President.\n\nIn December 1945, at the Moscow Conference, the Allies agreed that the Soviet Union, the US, the Republic of China, and Britain would take part in a trusteeship over Korea for up to five years in the lead-up to independence. Many Koreans demanded independence immediately; however, the Korean Communist Party, which was closely aligned with the Soviet Communist party, supported the trusteeship. According to journalist Fyodor Tertitskiy, documentation from 1945 suggests the Soviet government had no plans for a permanent division.\n\nA Soviet-US Joint Commission met in 1946 and 1947 to work towards a unified administration, but failed to make progress due to increasing Cold War antagonism and to Korean opposition to the trusteeship. In 1946, the Soviet Union proposed Lyuh Woon-hyung as the leader of a unified Korea, but this was rejected by the US. Meanwhile, the division between the two zones deepened. The difference in policy between the occupying powers led to a polarization of politics, and a transfer of population between North and South. In May 1946 it was made illegal to cross the 38th parallel without a permit. At the final meeting of the Joint Commission in September 1947, Soviet delegate Terentii Shtykov proposed that both Soviet and US troops withdraw and give the Korean people the opportunity to form their own government. This was rejected by the US.\n\nWith the American government fearing Soviet expansion, and the Japanese authorities in Korea warning of a power vacuum, the embarkation date of the US occupation force was brought forward three times. On September 7, 1945, General Douglas MacArthur announced that Lieutenant General John R. Hodge was to administer Korean affairs, and Hodge landed in Incheon with his troops the next day. The Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea, which had operated from China, sent a delegation with three interpreters to Hodge, but he refused to meet with them. Likewise, Hodge refused to recognize the newly formed People's Republic of Korea and its People's Committees, and outlawed it on 12 December.\n\nIn September 1946, thousands of laborers and peasants rose up against the military government. This uprising was quickly defeated, and failed to prevent scheduled October elections for the South Korean Interim Legislative Assembly.\n\nThe ardent anti-communist Syngman Rhee, who had been the first president of the Provisional Government and later worked as a pro-Korean lobbyist in the US, became the most prominent politician in the South. Rhee pressured the American government to abandon negotiations for a trusteeship and create an independent Republic of Korea in the south. On July 19, 1947, Lyuh Woon-hyung, the last senior politician committed to left-right dialogue, was assassinated by a 19-year-old man named Han Chigeun, a recent refugee from North Korea and an active member of a nationalist right-wing group..\n\nThe occupation government conducted a number of military campaigns against left-wing insurgents. Over the course of the next few years, between 30,000 and 100,000 people were killed.\n\nWhen Soviet troops entered Pyongyang, they found a local branch of the Committee for the Preparation of Korean Independence operating under the leadership of veteran nationalist Cho Man-sik. The Soviet Army allowed these \"People's Committees\" (which were friendly to the Soviet Union) to function. In September 1945, the Soviet administration issued its own currency, the \"Red Army won\". In 1946, Colonel-General Terentii Shtykov took charge of the administration and began to lobby the Soviet government for funds to support the ailing economy.\n\nIn February 1946 a provisional government called the Provisional People's Committee was formed under Kim Il-sung, who had spent the last years of the war training with Soviet troops in Manchuria. Conflicts and power struggles ensued at the top levels of government in Pyongyang as different aspirants maneuvered to gain positions of power in the new government. In March 1946 the provisional government instituted a sweeping land-reform program: land belonging to Japanese and collaborator landowners was divided and redistributed to poor farmers. Organizing the many poor civilians and agricultural laborers under the people's committees, a nationwide mass campaign broke the control of the old landed classes. Landlords were allowed to keep only the same amount of land as poor civilians who had once rented their land, thereby making for a far more equal distribution of land. The North Korean land reform was achieved in a less violent way than in China or in Vietnam. Official American sources stated: \"From all accounts, the former village leaders were eliminated as a political force without resort to bloodshed, but extreme care was taken to preclude their return to power.\" The farmers responded positively; many collaborators and former landowners fled to the south, where some of them obtained positions in the new South Korean government. According to the U.S. military government, 400,000 northern Koreans went south as refugees.\n\nKey industries were nationalized. The economic situation was nearly as difficult in the north as it was in the south, as the Japanese had concentrated agriculture in the south and heavy industry in the north.\n\nSoviet forces departed in 1948.\n\nWith the failure of the Joint Commission to make progress, the US brought the problem before the United Nations in September 1947. The Soviet Union opposed UN involvement. At that time, the US had more influence over the UN than the USSR. The UN passed a resolution on November 14, 1947, declaring that free elections should be held, foreign troops should be withdrawn, and a UN commission for Korea, the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea (UNTCOK), should be created. The Soviet Union boycotted the voting and did not consider the resolution to be binding, arguing that the UN could not guarantee fair elections. In the absence of Soviet co-operation, it was decided to hold UN-supervised elections in the south only. This was in defiance of the report of the chairman of the Commission, K. P. S. Menon, who had argued against a separate election. Some UNTCOK delegates felt that the conditions in the south gave unfair advantage to right-wing candidates, but they were overruled.\n\nThe decision to proceed with separate elections was unpopular among many Koreans, who rightly saw it as a prelude to a permanent division of the country. General strikes in protest against the decision began in February 1948. In April, Jeju islanders rose up against the looming division of the country. South Korean troops were sent to repress the rebellion. Tens of thousands of islanders were killed and by one estimate, 70% of the villages were burned by the South Korean troops. The uprising flared up again with the outbreak of the Korean War.\n\nIn April 1948, a conference of organizations from the north and the south met in Pyongyang. The southern politicians Kim Koo and Kim Kyu-sik attended the conference and boycotted the elections in the south, as did other politicians and parties. The conference called for a united government and the withdrawal of foreign troops. Syngman Rhee and General Hodge denounced the conference. Kim Koo was assassinated the following year.\n\nOn May 10, 1948 the south held a general election. It took place amid widespread violence and intimidation, as well as a boycott by opponents of Syngman Rhee. On August 15, the \"Republic of Korea\" (\"Daehan Minguk\") formally took over power from the U.S. military, with Syngman Rhee as the first president. In the North, the \"Democratic People's Republic of Korea\" (\"Chosŏn Minjujuŭi Inmin Konghwaguk\") was declared on September 9, with Kim Il-sung as prime minister.\n\nOn December 12, 1948, the United Nations General Assembly accepted the report of UNTCOK and declared the Republic of Korea to be the \"only lawful government in Korea\". However, none of the members of UNTCOK considered that the election had established a legitimate national parliament. The Australian government, which had a representative on the commission declared that it was \"far from satisfied\" with the election.\n\nUnrest continued in the South. In October 1948, the Yeosu–Suncheon Rebellion took place, in which some regiments rejected the suppression of the Jeju uprising and rebelled against the government. In 1949, the Syngman Rhee government established the Bodo League in order to keep an eye on its political opponents. The majority of the Bodo League's members were innocent farmers and civilians who were forced into membership. The registered members or their families were executed at the beginning of the Korean War. On December 24, 1949, South Korean Army massacred Mungyeong citizens who were suspected communist sympathizers or their family and affixed blame to communists.\n\nThis division of Korea, after more than a millennium of being unified, was seen as controversial and temporary by both regimes. From 1948 until the start of the civil war on June 25, 1950, the armed forces of each side engaged in a series of bloody conflicts along the border. In 1950, these conflicts escalated dramatically when North Korean forces invaded South Korea, triggering the Korean War. The United Nations intervened to protect the South, sending a US-led force. As it occupied the south, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea attempted to unify Korea under its regime, initiating the nationalisation of industry, land reform, and the restoration of the People's Committees.\n\nWhile UN intervention was conceived as restoring the border at the 38th parallel, Syngman Rhee argued that the attack of the North had obliterated the boundary. Similarly UN Commander in Chief, General Douglas MacArthur stated that he intended to unify Korea, not just drive the North Korean forces back behind the border. However, the North overran 90% of the south until a counter-attack by US-led forces. As the North Korean forces were driven from the south, South Korean forces crossed the 38th parallel on 1 October, and American and other UN forces followed a week later. This was despite warnings from the People's Republic of China that it would intervene if American troops crossed the parallel. As it occupied the north, the Republic of Korea, in turn, attempted to unify the country under its regime, with the Korean National Police enforcing political indoctrination. As US-led forces pushed into the north, China unleashed a counter-attack which drove them back into the south.\n\nIn 1951, the front line stabilized near the 38th parallel, and both sides began to consider an armistice. Rhee, however, demanded the war continue until Korea was unified under his leadership. The Communist side supported an armistice line being based on the 38th parallel, but the United Nations supported a line based on the territory held by each side, which was militarily defensible. The UN position, formulated by the Americans, went against the consensus leading up to the negotiations. Initially, the Americans proposed a line that passed through Pyongyang, far to the north of the front line. The Chinese and North Koreans eventually agreed to a border on the military line of contact rather than the 38th parallel, but this disagreement led to a tortuous and drawn-out negotiating process.\n\nThe Korean Armistice Agreement was signed after three years of war. The two sides agreed to create a four-kilometer-wide buffer zone between the states, known as the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). This new border, reflecting the territory held by each side at the end of the war, crossed the 38th parallel diagonally. Rhee refused to accept the armistice and continued to urge the reunification of the country by force. Despite attempts by both sides to reunify the country, the war perpetuated the division of Korea and led to a permanent alliance between South Korea and the U.S., and a permanent U.S. garrison in the South.\n\nAs dictated by the terms of the Korean Armistice, a Geneva Conference was held in 1954 on the Korean question. Despite efforts by many of the nations involved, the conference ended without a declaration for a unified Korea.\n\nThe Armistice established a Neutral Nations Supervisory Commission (NNSC) which was tasked to monitor the Armistice. Since 1953, members of the Swiss and Swedish armed forces have been members of the NNSC stationed near the DMZ. Poland and Czechoslovakia were the neutral nations chosen by North Korea, but North Korea expelled their observers after those countries embraced capitalism.\n\nSince the war, Korea has remained divided along the DMZ. North and South have remained in a state of conflict, with the opposing regimes both claiming to be the legitimate government of the whole country. Sporadic negotiations have failed to produce lasting progress towards reunification.\n\nOn April 27, 2018 North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in met in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). The Panmunjom Declaration signed by both leaders called for the end of longstanding military activities near the border and the reunification of Korea.\n\nOn November 1, 2018, buffer zones were established across the DMZ to help ensure the end of hostility on land, sea and air. The buffer zones stretch from the north of Deokjeok Island to the south of Cho Island in the West Sea and the north of Sokcho city and south of Tongchon County in the East (Yellow) Sea. In addition, no fly zones were established as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3094661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3094661", "title": "Drinking and Driving Wrecks Lives", "text": "Drinking and Driving Wrecks Lives\n\nDrinking And Driving Wrecks Lives is the tagline to a series of public information films (PIFs) that ran in the UK between 1987 and 1997, addressing the problem of drink-driving. Unlike earlier campaigns which focused on consequences to the offender, this campaign was more aimed at showing the devastation that drink-driving can cause to the victims and their families. Storylines and camera techniques (such as the extreme close ups used in the \"Eyes\" and \"Kathy\" campaigns) were designed to encourage drinking drivers to identify with the people affected by this behaviour, showing that drink driving is not a \"victimless crime\". There were many PIFs in the series.\n\n\"Note: This list is not complete yet.\"\n\n\nThe campaign was replaced in 1997 by a new slogan, \"Have none for the road\".\n"}
{"id": "1704366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704366", "title": "Drupa", "text": "Drupa\n\nThe drupa is the largest printing equipment exhibition in the world, held every four years by Messe Düsseldorf in Düsseldorf, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. The word drupa is a portmanteau of the German words druck und papier; \"print\" and \"paper\" respectively.\n\nThousands of industry experts are usually present, and corporate representation typically includes companies such as Agfa Graphics, Océ N.V., Muller Martini, EIZO, Esko, Hewlett-Packard, Xeikon, Flint Group, Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, Manroland, Kern, Pitney Bowes, New Solution, Xerox, Kodak, Canon, Transeomedia, DirectSmile, Konica Minolta, Ricoh, Martin Automatic, Komori Corporation, Fujifilm, Siegwerk, Inspectron and Koenig & Bauer AG. Several new technologies are typically demonstrated during Drupa.\n\nSince 2000 every drupa had its own theme song. The idea started in 1986 with a song featuring a country folk style which was later nominated as one of the worst corporate anthems ever by \"The Register\". Nevertheless, they are one of the drupa trademarks since the theme song concept was resurrected with a dance/pop power ballad in 2000. The drupa 2004 theme song used a techno dance style while the song for 2012 was performed by Dirk Zeisler.\n\n"}
{"id": "24265458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24265458", "title": "Failure of imagination", "text": "Failure of imagination\n\nA failure of imagination is a circumstance wherein something seemingly predictable (particularly from hindsight) and undesirable was not planned for.\n\nThe field of epistemology studies knowledge and human understanding, and failures of understanding. Failure of imagination is related to unknown unknowns and black swan theory, used by Nassim Taleb in his 2007 book The Black Swan, describing unexpected or unpredicted incidents with significant negative impact, with Russell's teapot as counterpoint.\n\nFailure of imagination is invoked as a reason that intelligence agencies, such as the Central Intelligence Agency and the NSA, failed to prevent the September 11 attacks. More generally, the concept may also apply to the Presidency of George W. Bush and his administration, that failed to prevent the attacks.\n\nDuring the summer of 2003, after the now-declassified report about the September 11 attack, many government officials, such as Senator Bob Graham began to make criticisms that the September 11 attack might have easily been predicted and even prevented. Following these criticisms, President Bush declassified the August 6, 2001 President's Daily Brief, \"Bin Ladin Determined To Strike in US\", which indicated that hijackings might be one possible mode of attack.\nAfter the attacks, representatives of the Bush administration claimed in early 2004 that \"nobody could have imagined that ... hijackers would intentionally crash ... hijackers usually want to live.\" To the contrary, the apparently intentional crash of EgyptAir Flight 990 by its co-pilot on December 31, 1999, and a similar intentional crash of PSA Flight 1771 by a disgruntled former airline employee on December 7, 1987, and especially the case of AFR 8969, offered precedents that indicated otherwise. Prior to the 9/11 attacks, a number of foreign nationals were taking pilot training in the U.S. and raised suspicion by being uninterested in learning how to land safely. The 9/11 Commission found that this failure to \"connect the dots\" and imagine what was being planned was an important contributing factor to the September 11 attacks, stating \"the most important failure [concerning the 9/11 attacks] was one of imagination.\"\n\nFailure of imagination has also been invoked in regards to the Apollo 1 fire by astronaut Frank Borman in 1967 when he spoke at the Apollo 1 investigation hearings (dramatized in the HBO mini-series \"From the Earth to the Moon\" in 1998). It has also been mentioned in reference to design flaws in the RMS \"Titanic\". Donald Rumsfeld, in the documentary The Unknown Known suggests that the failure of the United States to anticipate the attack on Pearl Harbor was a failure of imagination.\n\n"}
{"id": "614366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614366", "title": "Federation of Conservative Students", "text": "Federation of Conservative Students\n\nThe Federation of Conservative Students (FCS) was the student organisation of the British Conservative Party from the late 1940s to 1986. It was created to act as a bridge between the student movement and the Conservative Party. In its final years it became known colloquially as \"Maggie's Militant Tendency\", in reference to then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and to Militant, an entryist group active in the Labour Party at the time. The FCS was then broken up by the Chairman of the Conservative Party, Norman Tebbit, after one of its members had accused previous former Prime Minister Harold Macmillan of war crimes in extraditing Cossacks to the Soviet Union. The FCS was replaced by the Conservative Collegiate Forum.\n\nThe organisation was created in the late 1940s to act as a bridge between the student movement and the Conservative Party, It was initially named the Federation of University Conservative and Unionists Associations (FUCUA). By the late 1970s the organisation had moved considerably left of the Conservative party.\n\nThe policies of Margaret Thatcher had a polarising effect on British politics and the student left moved towards radicalism in their response to them. Many students' unions would pass motions instituting a policy of \"No Platform for Racists or Fascists\". Starting in the early 1980s, the organisation adopted a more confrontational approach toward the left-leaning National Union of Students. Leaders, most notably from Scotland, started advocating \"voluntary students' unions\". They organised campaigns aimed at disaffiliating individual students' unions from the NUS to weaken the so-called block vote, and deprive it of taxpayers' money which the NUS used for various causes. Posters and other publicity material became much more provocative and hard-hitting.\n\nIn the early years FCS was moderate in its outlook and elected a number of National Chairmen reflecting a mainstream outlook. These included Mark Carlisle MP, Andrew Neil and Antony Buck MP.\n\nHowever the 1970s saw increasing factionalism mirroring the internal conflicts between Monday Club supporters of Enoch Powell and the Heathite leadership. In its last years, the FCS, perhaps reflecting the debate within the Conservative party of the 1980s and the generally fractious nature of student politics, was notably prone to factionalism. The three main factions were:\n\nThe authoritarian faction centred on the student Monday Club, and was known for its more traditional British nationalism, an isolationist posture in relation to foreign affairs, opposition (as espoused by Enoch Powell) to immigration, scepticism about liberal economics, and staunch support for the Union.\n\nThe Libertarian faction (the \"Libs\") was closely linked to the Libertarian Alliance run by Chris Tame, and the Adam Smith Institute, run by Madsen Pirie.\n\nThe libertarian faction was the largest faction in the FCS in its last few years. Its overall dominance is illustrated by the passage of a libertarian motion in favour of free migration at the Leicester conference, shortly before the demise of the FCS, which was opposed by both the wet and the authoritarian factions.\n\nUnder Glendening, elected Chairman in 1984, the FCS became more controversial than ever as it embraced social liberalism in addition to the already established endorsement of economic libertarianism; issues such as supporting the legalisation of drugs were no longer taboo.\n\nMany former leaders of the libertarian faction, such as Mark MacGregor, went on to hold senior office in the Conservative Party. Other notable members of \"the Libs\" were: Brian Monteith, Lloyd Beat, Marc-Henri Glendening, Marc Gordon, Mark Allatt, Robbie Gibb, Adrian Lee, Steve Nicholson, Douglas Smith David Hoile, and Harry Phibbs. John Bercow and Andrew Rosindell were once also members, although they had also been part of the authoritarian faction.\n\nThe Moderate faction had controlled the FCS until 1980. Some of them were members of the Tory Reform Group (TRG). Eight prominent members of the moderate faction including several former chairmen joined the SDP in 1981.\n\nDespite a relatively high number of supporters and control of some large student bodies, they only once gained influence in the national federation after 1980, through a controversial last minute alliance with the authoritarian faction in 1983.\n\nThe moderate faction was usually referred to by its opponents as the \"Wets\" in an allusion to the contemporary nickname for the anti-Thatcherite wing of the parliamentary party, although after 1980 this description was often vehemently rejected by members of the moderate faction in FCS themselves in favour of titles such as the \"Party Faction\" and \"Conservative Student Unionists.\" This was partly because they saw themselves as seeking to represent the mainstream of the party and not just the left, and partly because this faction did contain a significant proportion of prominent members such as Paul Goodman and Mark Francois who later became MPs perceived to be to the right of the party leadership.\n\nIn many universities the TRG organised itself as a complementary political society to the main Conservative group. This is a policy that the TRG has maintained since, although the last of these societies, the Oxford TRG Society, merged with Oxford's Conservative Association in 2007.\n\nIn the 1980s the FCS was noted for being more radical than the main party, more Thatcherite than Thatcher – ministers invited to speak at conferences were routinely chastised for not going far enough.\n\nIn addition to supporting privatisation, controversial positions embraced included the support for , RENAMO, the UNITA rebels in Angola, and the Contras in Nicaragua. The Federation made badges with the words \"Nicaragua Must be Free\". Some Labour students began wearing them without realising their origin and intended meaning.\n\nThe FCS also 'famously' produced a poster saying 'Hang Nelson Mandela', and criticized Thatcher for her 'soft touch'.\n\nSome delegates to the Loughborough conference wore T-shirts with the slogan \"Morning Cloud, remember the Belgrano\". In October 1985 they were accused of physically intimidating Edward Heath.\n\nThere was some damage during the 1985 FCS conference at Loughborough University, leading to press reports of a \"riot\". The officers elected at that conference were mainly of the libertarian faction who espouse many of the controversial libertarian ideals which have embarrassed the party leadership. Although it was clear that some damage was done, the so-called riot was vastly exaggerated, the final bill for repairs that the University presented came to under £20, and there would not be enough evidence to close the FCS as the then Party Chairman John Selwyn Gummer wanted. Nevertheless, reports of \"riots\" in the media, including the \"Daily Star\" and the \"Daily Mirror\", motivated Gummer immediately to suspend the FCS's £30,000 annual grant.\n\nThe \"Daily Telegraph\" wrote that the \"students cleared up the mess after the offending party, and journalists who saw the room the morning after reported a damaged door handle, a missing light bulb and beer stains on the carpet in a corridor to be the only visible signs of damage.\" Inspector Patricia Perry of Loughborough Police Station said \"there was no physical damage\". In a letter to \"The Times\", Professor Peter Havard-Williams of Loughborough University stated \"The damage itself was not more than that done by many other conferences and was not excessive.\" Mark MacGregor suggested that Gummer's actions were politically motivated: \"Unfortunately, many of our supporters will see this as a move against the leaders they have elected. Our supporters are from working-class backgrounds, and the party establishment seems to feel that we don't quite fit in.\"\n\nIn \"The Observer\", Toby Young wrote: \"As nights of mob terror go, last Monday's party at the Federation of Conservative Students' Conference was pretty tame\". Both Young and Sir Alfred Sherman believed that Gummer's actions were motivated by his opposition to the libertarian ideology of some of the FCS' members which closely resembled some of Mrs Thatcher's personal beliefs. Sherman wrote that Gummer's actions were \"directed against the Prime Minister\". Tim Hames and Nick Robinson later admitted that the bill presented for damage was less than £20, and that the media reports were as a result of an \"astute spinning operation\" by Wet delegates from the University of Oxford, who \"directed journalists to students who offered harrowing accounts of the boorish behaviour of libertarian activists.\"\n\nThe FCS was disbanded by Norman Tebbit, who succeeded Gummer as the party chairman. This was for publishing an article, penned by Harry Phibbs, following Nikolai Tolstoy's accusation that former Conservative Prime Minister Harold Macmillan was complicit in war crimes for his involvement in the forced repatriation of Cossack prisoners of war to Soviet Russia in the aftermath of World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "153250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153250", "title": "Fowler's solution", "text": "Fowler's solution\n\nFowler's solution is a solution containing 1% potassium arsenite (KAsO), and once prescribed as a remedy or a tonic. Thomas Fowler of Stafford, England, proposed the solution in 1786 as a substitute for a patent medicine, \"tasteless ague drop\". From 1845, Fowler's solution was a leukemia treatment.\n\nAt 1905, inorganic arsenicals, like Fowler's solution, saw diminished use as attention turned to organic arsenicals, starting with Atoxyl.\n\nAs arsenical compounds are notably toxic and carcinogenic—with side effects such as cirrhosis of the liver, idiopathic portal hypertension, urinary bladder cancer, and skin cancers—Fowler's solution fell from use. (In 2001, however, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a drug of arsenic trioxide to treat acute promyelocytic leukaemia, and interest in arsenic has returned.)\n\n"}
{"id": "4231889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4231889", "title": "Fred Astaire Dance Studios", "text": "Fred Astaire Dance Studios\n\nFred Astaire Dance Studios, Inc. is a ballroom dance franchise chain of studios in the United States and Canada, named after and co-founded by famous dancer Fred Astaire. It is headquartered in Longmeadow, Massachusetts, USA.\n\nThe company was co-founded by Astaire along with Charles and Chester Casanave in 1947. Astaire divested his interest in the chain in 1966, while agreeing the continued use of his name by the franchise. The studios became franchised in 1950; currently there are no corporate owned studios. Each franchise is individually owned & operated. Currently there are 140 Fred Astaire studios in the United States alone. As of December 2010, Fred Astaire Dance Studios will now be franchising around the world and has studios opened in countries like Lebanon and South Africa.\n\nThe following dancers worked for and or started with Fred Astaire Dance Studios and won at least one United States Dance Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2457622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2457622", "title": "Free festival", "text": "Free festival\n\nFree festivals are a combination of music, arts and cultural activities, for which often no admission is charged, but involvement is preferred. They are identifiable by being multi-day events connected by a camping community without centralised control. The pioneering free festival movement started in the UK in the 1970s.\n\nThe first intentionally free festival was the 1972 to 1974 Windsor Free Festival, held in Windsor Great Park, England. The 'organisation' was mostly Ubi Dwyer distributing thousands of leaflets and asking people and bands to bring their own equipment and create their own environment – \"bring what you expect to find.\"\n\n\"Free festivals are practical demonstrations of what society could be like all the time: miniature utopias of joy and communal awareness rising for a few days from a grey morass of mundane, inhibited, paranoid and repressive everyday existence…The most lively [young people] escape geographically and physically to the ‘Never Never Land’ of a free festival where they become citizens, indeed rulers, in a new reality.\" Un-authored leaflet from 1980, quoted in George McKay's Senseless Acts of Beauty: Cultures of Resistance Since the Sixties (p. 15).\n\nIn recent years, teknivals are a type of free festival, as are many technoparades.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10277751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10277751", "title": "Globe Theatre (Newcastle Street)", "text": "Globe Theatre (Newcastle Street)\n\nThe Globe was a Victorian theatre built in 1868 and demolished in 1902. It was the third of five London theatres to bear the name. It was also known at various times as the Royal Globe Theatre or Globe Theatre Royal. Its repertoire consisted mainly of comedies and musical shows. The theatre's most famous production was \"Charley's Aunt\" by Brandon Thomas, which enjoyed a record-setting run at the theatre, having transferred to it from the Royalty Theatre.\n\nEarlier theatres with the name \"Globe Theatre\" included Shakespeare’s Bankside house, which closed in 1642, and the former Rotunda Theatre in Blackfriars Road, which opened in 1833 for a few years and was renamed The Globe.\n\nThe new Globe was built to the commission of its proprietor, Sefton Parry, and stood on the corner of Wych Street and Newcastle Streets, on the site of Lyon's Inn, lately demolished, an old Inn of Chancery, belonging in former days to the Inner Temple. The Globe backed on to another theatre owned by Parry, the even more jerry-built Opera Comique, which opened two years before the Globe. The two theatres were known as 'the rickety twins': both were of such flimsy construction that performers could hear each other through the common wall. Parry built the theatre cheaply, hoping ‘to make handsome profits in compensation when the area was demolished, which was even then in contemplation’. It remained in contemplation for more than thirty years.\n\nThe Globe was taken over and partially rebuilt only two years after its opening. The architect was Walter Emden, whose surviving London theatres are The Duke of York’s, and (in collaboration) The Garrick Theatre and Royal Court Theatre. \"Old and New London\" described the theatre thus:\n\nThe ‘sunlight’ referred to above was a glass roof giving the auditorium natural light, day and night, and allowing ventilation at all times: in an age of gas lighting, the latter would have been a marked advantage. By contrast, at the adjoining Opera Comique audiences ‘perspired and gasped.’ In a print of the 1890s, ‘A visit to the opera’, showing the royal coach on its way to Covent Garden, the dome of the Globe can be seen in the background with its name picked out in electric lights: not a grand enough venue to be favoured with a royal visit, but still an established landmark.\n\nAuthorities differ on the size of the house. According to \"The London Encyclopaedia\" the capacity was 1,800; \"Old and New London\" (1897) puts it at 1,500. In either case it was one of London’s larger theatres. Acknowledging the history of the title ‘Globe Theatre’, the new house featured an act-drop representing a view of Stratford-Upon-Avon. That act-drop was destroyed in a fire, and replaced by another with a view of Anne Hathaway's cottage. The last managers of the theatre were Fred Terry and Julia Neilson.\n\nThe theatre closed in 1902 and was then demolished as part of the Strand Improvement Scheme, and construction of Aldwych. Bush House now stands on the site.\n\nThe Globe opened with Henry J. Byron's comedy \"Cyril's Success\", which \"Old and New London\" described as a great success. Later presentations included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49192592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49192592", "title": "Grey Fox Bluegrass Festival", "text": "Grey Fox Bluegrass Festival\n\nGrey Fox Bluegrass Festival is an annual music festival held in mid-July in Oak Hill, Greene County, New York. The festival features a variety of acoustic music including traditional and contemporary bluegrass, jam bands, old-time, swing and Cajun. The festival presents nationally and internationally touring bluegrass bands and showcases emerging artists from around the country. The event runs Thursday through Sunday the third weekend of July. and attendance averages about 6,000 patrons per day. \n\nIn addition to performances on several stages, activities include dancing, camping, children’s entertainment, yoga, jamming, hands-on music workshops, traditional dance instruction, professional development seminars for musicians and event producers, and a Bluegrass Academy for youths ages 8 to 17.\nGrey Fox Bluegrass Festival began in 1984 as the Winterhawk Bluegrass Festival on the Rothvoss Farm in Ancramdale, Columbia County, New York on the site of the 1976 Berkshire Mountain Bluegrass Festival. Producer Mary Tyler Doub asked Ron Thamason and his band the Dry Branch Fire Squad to host the festival's main stage show.\n\nDoub moved the event to the Walsh Farm in Oak Hill, New York on the banks of Catskill Creek in 2008. That year, Grey Fox was named Bluegrass Event of the Year by the International Bluegrass Music Association.\n\nThe 86-minute documentary, \"Bluegrass Journey\" (2003), was filmed in part at Grey Fox, In 2005, Grey Fox Bluegrass Festival was one of ten musical events around the world featured in BBC World’s television series, \"Destination Music\".\n\nEach year the festival program includes about than 40 acts on five stages\" Notable artists have included Sam Bush, Tony Rice, Nickel Creek and Béla Fleck. The 2015 event included Del McCoury, Peter Rowan, Tim O'Brien, Abigail Washburn, Punch Brothers, Bill Keith, Hot Rize, the Infamous Stringdusters, the Gibson Brothers, the Steep Canyon Rangers, Balsam Range and others\n\nIn 2015, Grey Fox was the setting of a two-hour Keith Banjo Summit honoring the influential music of Bill Keith. The summit was hosted by Béla Fleck and Tony Trischka, with Noam Pikelny, Mike Munford, Eric Weissberg, Marc Horowitz, Mike Kropp, and Ryan Cavanaugh participating, and Bill Keith in attendance.\n\n"}
{"id": "156496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156496", "title": "Gukurahundi", "text": "Gukurahundi\n\nThe Gukurahundi was a series of massacres of Ndebele civilians carried out by the Zimbabwe National Army from early 1983 to late 1987. It derives from a Shona language term which loosely translates to \"the early rain which washes away the chaff before the spring rains\".\n\nDuring the Rhodesian Bush War two rival nationalist parties, Robert Mugabe's Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU) and Joshua Nkomo's Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU), had emerged to challenge Rhodesia's predominantly white government. ZANU initially defined \"Gukurahundi\" as an ideological strategy aimed at carrying the war into major settlements and individual homesteads. Following Mugabe's ascension to power, his government remained threatened by \"dissidents\" – disgruntled former guerrillas and supporters of ZAPU.\n\nZANU recruited mainly from the majority Shona people, whereas the ZAPU had its greatest support among the minority Ndebele. In early 1983, the North Korean-trained Fifth Brigade began a crackdown on dissidents in Matabeleland North, one of the homelands of the Ndebele. Over the following two years, thousands of Ndebele were detained by government forces and either marched to re-education camps or summarily executed. Although there are different estimates, the consensus of the International Association of Genocide Scholars is that more than 20,000 people were killed.\n\nBefore the Rhodesian Bush War, the main black nationalist organisation in Southern Rhodesia, the Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU), split into two groups in 1963, the split-away group being the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU). Though these groups had a common origin they gradually grew apart, with the split away group, ZANU, recruiting mainly from the Shona regions, while ZAPU recruited mainly from Ndebele-speaking regions in the west.\n\nThere is a much earlier source for Shona hostility to the Ndebele, going back to the arrival in 1837 of Mzilikazi and his Matabele followers. Mzilikazi carved out a territory for himself by fighting and dispossessing the local Shona, and this humiliation has not been forgotten by the Shona.\n\nThe armies of these two groups, ZAPU's Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA), and ZANU's Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA), developed rivalries for the support of the people and would fight each other. When Rhodesia became Zimbabwe in 1980, following the Lancaster House Agreement, the two armies so distrusted each other that it was difficult to integrate them both into the National Army. These problems were only in Matabeleland. For example: former ZIPRA elements attacked civilian areas in Zvishavane, Kadoma and Bulawayo. It seemed ZIPRA had a hidden arms cache. There were major outbreaks of violence carried out by ZIPRA against the civilian population . The first of these was in November 1980, followed by a more serious incident in early 1981. This led to the defection of many ZIPRA members. ZAPU was supporting a new dissident war to improve its position in Zimbabwe. In the elections held in April 1980, ZANU received 57 out of 100 seats and Robert Mugabe became prime minister.\n\nA historian Dr Stuart Doran of events in Zimbabwe, using historical documents, has written a short article 'New documents claim to prove Mugabe ordered Gukurahundi killings' way back in 1983. Quoted in part: The documents point to internal killings neither provoked nor sustained by outsiders, suggesting that the atrocities were driven from the top by Zanu-PF in pursuit of specific political objectives. Viewed across a period of several years, the documents appear to provide evidence that the massacres were but one component of a sustained and strategic effort to remove all political opposition within five years of independence. Zanu-PF leaders were determined to secure a \"victory\" against a non-existent opposition in elections scheduled for 1985, after which there would be a \"mandate\" from the people to impose a one-party state.\n\nIn November 1980 Enos Nkala made remarks at a rally in Bulawayo, in which he warned ZAPU that ZANU would deliver a few blows against them. This preceded the first outbreak of fighting in Entumbane, during which ZIPRA and the Zimbabwe National Army fought a pitched battle for two days.\n\nIn February 1981 there was a second uprising, which spread to Glenville and also to Connemara in the Midlands. ZIPRA troops in other parts of Matabeleland headed for Bulawayo to join the battle, and the Zimbabwean National army units had to come in to stop the fighting.\n\nThe government asked Justice Enoch Dumbutshena, the former Chief Justice of Zimbabwe, to hold an inquiry into the uprising – ZIPRA was found to be preparing for war.\n\nMany ZIPRA cadres defected after Entumbane, fearing retribution.\n\nThis situation became worse after the finding of arms caches in February 1982. ZANU now openly accused ZAPU of plotting another war and ZAPU leaders were arrested or removed from cabinet. However, the treason trial in 1982 involving Dumiso Dabengwa, Lookout Masuku and four others failed to prove a case against them. All were released although Dabengwa and Masuku were re-detained without trial for four years. As a result, ex-ZIPRA cadres deserted the army after this. They did this out of necessity to stay alive. With their leaders all locked up or in exile, they felt there was nobody to protect them within the army. \"We were threatened, that was why I decided to desert,\" said one dissident.\n\nThe army integration scheme saw former Zipra recruits being harassed and accused of sympathising with their deserted colleagues. They were no longer trusted and were being constantly harassed. However, Joshua Nkomo publicly disowned the deserted soldiers and thus discouraged any others from leaving the army.\n\nMeanwhile, South Africa's policy of destabilising Zimbabwe by military means, while blaming ZAPU for the actions of South African agents, continued and escalate the breakdown between ZAPU and ZANU.\n\nRobert Mugabe, then Prime Minister, had signed an agreement with North Korean President Kim Il Sung in October 1980 to have the North Korean military train a brigade for the Zimbabwean army. This was soon after Mugabe had announced the need for a militia to \"combat malcontents.\"\nMugabe replied by saying dissidents should \"watch out,\" announcing the brigade would be called \"Gukurahundi.\" This brigade was named the Fifth Brigade. The members of the Fifth Brigade were drawn from 3500 ex-ZANLA troops at Tongogara Assembly Point, named after Josiah Tongogara, the ZANLA general. There were a few ZIPRA (ZAPU) troops in the unit for a start, but they were withdrawn before the end of the training. The training of 5 Brigade lasted until September 1982, when Minister Sekeramayi announced training was complete.\n\nThe first Commander of the Fifth Brigade was Colonel Perence Shiri. The Fifth Brigade was different from all other Zimbabwean army units in that it was directly subordinated to the Prime Minister office, and not integrated to the normal army command structures. Their codes, uniforms, radios and equipment were not compatible with other army units. Their most distinguishing feature in the field was their red berets.\n\nIn January 1983, a crackdown by the elite Fifth Brigade in Matabeleland North was initiated to purge the dissidents, and its participation lasted until late 1984. The brigade's directives apparently specified a search for local ZAPU officials and veterans of ZAPU's armed wing, the Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA). Seizure or detention by the Fifth Brigade was arbitrary. In Bulawayo, for instance, Ndebele men of fighting age were considered potential dissidents and therefore, guilty of subversive activities. Most detained were summarily executed or marched to re-education camps. Most of the dead were shot in public executions, often after being forced to dig their own graves in front of family and fellow villagers. On occasion the Fifth Brigade also massacred large groups of Ndebele, seemingly at random—the largest such incident occurred in March 1983, when 62 young men and women were shot on the banks of the Cewale River, Lupane. Seven survived with gunshot wounds, the other 55 died. Another way 5 Brigade used to kill large groups of people was to burn them alive in huts. They did this in Tsholotsho and also in Lupane. They would routinely round up dozens, or even hundreds, of civilians and march them at gun point to a central place, like a school or bore-hole. There they would be forced to sing Shona songs praising ZANU, at the same time being beaten with sticks. These gatherings usually ended with public executions. Those killed could be ex-ZIPRAs, ZAPU officials, or anybody chosen at random. The Zimbabwe government repudiated these allegations and accused the hostile foreign press of fabricating stories. Zimbabwean Minister for National Security Sydney Sekeramayi countered that allegations of atrocities were part of a ZAPU disinformation programme to discredit the army. The government characterised such allegations as irresponsible, contrived propaganda because it failed to give proper weight to the violence by dissidents, who targeted ZANU officials. It is estimated that 700–800 people were murdered by dissident gangs in rural regions. In August 1985, dissidents massacred 22 Shona civilians in Mwenezi. On a mission farm in Matobo, dissidents massacred 16 people.\n\nThe Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace in Zimbabwe documented at least 2,000 deaths, and speculated that the actual number could be 8,000 or higher. Local Ndebele put the figure between 20,000 and 30,000. Journalist Heidi Holland referenced a death toll of 8,000 as a typical conservative estimate. In February 1983 the International Red Cross disclosed that 1,200 Ndebele had been murdered that month alone. In a unanimously adopted resolution in 2005, the International Association of Genocide Scholars estimated the death toll at 20,000.\n\nIn 1992 serving Defence Minister Moven Mahachi became the first ZANU official who publicly apologised for the execution and torture of civilians by the Fifth Brigade. Five years later, Enos Nkala, former Defence Minister, described his involvement with \"Gukurahundi\" as \"eternal hell\" and blamed President Mugabe for having orchestrated it. Speaking at Joshua Nkomo's memorial service on 2 July 2000, Mugabe admitted that \"thousands\" had been killed during the campaign, calling it a \"moment of madness\".\n\nRobert Mugabe and ZAPU leader Joshua Nkomo signed the Unity Accord on 22 December 1987. This effectively dissolved ZAPU and ZANU into the Zimbabwe African National Union – Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF). On 18 April 1988, Mugabe announced an amnesty for all dissidents, and Nkomo called on them to lay down their arms. A general ordinance was issued saying all those who surrendered before 31 May would get a full pardon. This was extended not just to dissidents but to criminals of various types serving jail terms. Over the next few weeks, 122 dissidents surrendered.\n\nIn June the amnesty was extended to include all members of the security forces who had committed human rights violations.\n\nIn the 1990s the disturbances were finally at an end. This brought relief nationwide, but in parts of the country it has left behind many problems that remain unsolved to this day. These include poor health, poverty, practical and legal problems and a deep-rooted suspicion of Government officials.\n\nSome of the material here is drawn from a report compiled by the Legal Resources Foundation (LRF) and the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace in Zimbabwe (CCJP) entitled \"Breaking the Silence, Building True Peace. A report on the disturbances in Matabeleland and the Midlands 1980–1989\".\n\nMartin Rupiah Lecturer, \"Demobilisation and Integration: 'Operation Merger' and the Zimbabwe National defence Forces, 1980–1987\", \"African Security Review\", Vol 4, No 3, 1995\n\n\nZimbabwean author Christopher Mlalazi has written a novel on the Gukurahundi killings from a child's perspective, \"Running with Mother\" (2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "46188667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46188667", "title": "International Festival Entr'2 marches", "text": "International Festival Entr'2 marches\n\nInternational Festival Entr'2 marches (Between 2 steps) in Cannes is a festival of short movies, less than 26 minutes, with French subtitles. The subject of these movies is about disabled people. This festival is organized by the French Association for the Paralyzed: APF. It takes place during the Cannes Film Festival.\n\n\nAwarded movies :\n\n\nAwarded movies :\n\nAll films were subtitled in French.\n\n\nz\n"}
{"id": "50880707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50880707", "title": "International Women's Collaboration Brew Day", "text": "International Women's Collaboration Brew Day\n\nInternational Women's Collaboration Brew Day (IWCBD) is an annual event held on 8th March, to coincide with International Women's Day. The event was first started in 2014, when 60 women brewmasters around the world simultaneously brewed the same recipe of craft beer. The event helps to raise awareness of women working in the brewing industry, especially as brewmasters. It is also a chance for women interested in brewing to network with one another.\n\nThe idea for the IWCBD came from Project Venus member, Sophie de Ronde, who reached out to the Pink Boots Society in 2013 to start a \"unified brew day.\" De Ronde wanted the day \"to encourage women to brew together.\" The day was meant to coincide with International Women's Day and would \"raise awareness of women in the brewing industry and raise money for local charities and Pink Boots Society.\" Brewing beer has become a male-dominated industry and is \"still struggling with sexism and gender bias.\" Another participant said, \"I'd like to normalize the idea that women can and do work in the brewhouse along with other departments in a brewery.\"\n\nThe first year, 2014, over 60 women in five different countries brewed a pale ale called Unite. In 2015, there were 80 women from eleven different countries involved who worked together to brew Unite red ale. In South Africa, Apiwe Nxusani-Mawela, helped organize the first IWCBD event in Johannesburg. For 2016, the type of beer brewed was a gose. \n\n"}
{"id": "32197449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32197449", "title": "James P. Hosty", "text": "James P. Hosty\n\nJames Patrick Hosty Jr. (August 28, 1924 – June 10, 2011) was an American FBI agent assigned to investigate Lee Harvey Oswald upon Oswald's June 1962 return to the United States after his defection to the Soviet Union. After Hosty made contact with Marina Oswald (a Soviet citizen) in order to interview her about her recent entry into the United States, Oswald wrote him a letter to protest the \"harassment\" of his wife Marina, and had Hosty's name and phone number in his address book. After the Kennedy assassination, Hosty did not disclose Oswald's letter about Marina to the Warren Commission and destroyed it on his superior's order. Because of this, Hosty attracted speculation as a possible conspirator in several conspiracy theories. Hosty was transferred to the FBI's Kansas City office until his mandatory retirement in 1979. Hosty later wrote a memoir about the Kennedy assassination, titled \"Assignment: Oswald\".\n\nHosty was born on August 28, 1924, in Chicago, Illinois. He was one of seven children of Charlotte Irene and James Patrick Hosty Sr., an executive in a sugar company in Chicago.\n\nHe received an unsigned note from Lee Harvey Oswald about two weeks before the Kennedy assassination. The note asked Hosty to stop questioning Oswald's wife. Hosty filed it away. He first met Oswald on November 22, 1963. It was while he was interrogating Oswald on November 22 that he realized that the unsigned note he had received two weeks prior was from Oswald. He said that, on orders from his supervisor, he destroyed the note after Oswald was killed on November 24, 1963.\n\nHe retired from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1979.\n\nHe died of prostate cancer on June 10, 2011, in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nHosty was portrayed in the 1991 Oliver Stone film \"JFK\" as having a central role in a government conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy and frame Oswald. In the 2011 Stephen King novel \"11/22/63\", Hosty questions the protagonist Jake Epping, a time traveler who has just narrowly prevented Oswald from killing the president. Hosty is suspicious of Epping because of what he knows about Oswald and his investigation by the FBI, but assists Epping in his efforts to quietly disappear, so that he may return to 2011. (The television adaptation has Epping returning to 2016.)\n\nIn 2013, actor Ron Livingston portrayed Hosty in writer/director Peter Landesman's film \"Parkland\", a film which recounts the chaotic events that occurred at Dallas' Parkland Hospital on the day JFK was assassinated.\n"}
{"id": "3099008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099008", "title": "John Gerard (Jesuit)", "text": "John Gerard (Jesuit)\n\nJohn Gerard (4 October 1564 – 27 July 1637) was an English Jesuit priest, operating covertly in England during the Elizabethan era in which the Catholic Church was subject to persecution. He was the second son of Sir Thomas Gerard of Bryn, in Ashton-in-Makerfield, Lancashire. \n\nGerard is noted not only for successfully hiding from the English authorities for eight years before his capture, but for enduring extensive torture, escaping from the Tower of London and, after recovering, continuing with his covert mission. After his escape to the continent, he was later instructed by his Jesuit superiors to write a book about his life (in Latin). An English translation, published in 1951, is a rare first-hand account of the dangerous world of a Catholic priest in Elizabethan England.\n\nJohn Gerard was born 4 October 1564, the second son of Sir Thomas Gerard of Bryn, and Elizabeth, daughter and co-heiress of Sir John Port of Derbyshire. In 1569, when John Gerard was five years old, his father was imprisoned for plotting the rescue of Mary, Queen of Scots, from Tutbury Castle. His release in 1571 may have been influenced by his cousin Sir Gilbert Gerard who was Attorney General at that time. During that time John and his brother were placed with Protestant relatives, but his father obtained for them a Catholic tutor.\n\nIn August 1577, at age 12, he was sent to the English College at Douai, which relocated the following March to Rheims. At the age of fifteen, he spent a year at Exeter College, Oxford. This was followed by about a year of home-study of Greek and Latin, under a tutor, Mr. Leutner. He then went to the Jesuit Clermont College in Paris. After some months there, followed by an illness and convalescence, in the latter part of 1581 he went to Rouen to see Jesuit Father Robert Persons.\n\nAs Gerard had left for Clermont without the requisite travel permit, upon his return to England, he was arrested by customs officials upon landing at Dover. While his companions were sent to London, he was released in the custody of a Protestant in-law. But after three months, having still not attended Anglican services, he was remanded to the Marshalsea prison. He spent a little over a year there in company with William Hartley, Stephen Rowsham, John Adams, and William Bishop. In the spring of 1585, Anthony Babington, who was later to be executed for treason for being involved in a plot to free the Catholic Mary, Queen of Scots, posted bond to secure Gerard's release.\n\nGerard then went to Rome and was given another mission on behalf of the Jesuits to England. In November 1588, three months after the defeat of the Spanish Armada, Gerard and Edward Oldcorne landed in Norfolk to begin their task of sustaining the English Catholics. Eventually, Gerard was taken to the leader of the English Jesuits, Father Henry Garnet. Gerard soon became a very popular figure in the Catholic underground. To stay above suspicion, Gerard cultivated a respectable public image. By way of disguises, he appeared very secular, being versed in gambling and wearing fashionable clothes. Gerard wrote of many escapes from the law and of occasions when he hid in priest holes.\n\nGerard was finally captured in London on 23 April 1594, together with Nicholas Owen. He was tried, found guilty and sent to the Compter in the Poultry. Later he was moved to the Clink prison where he was able to meet regularly with other persecuted English Catholics. Due to his continuation of this work, he was sent to the Salt Tower in the Tower of London, where he was further questioned and tortured by being repeatedly suspended from chains on the dungeon wall. The main aim of Gerard's torturers was to identify the London lodgings of Fr. Henry Garnet that they might arrest him. He would not answer any questions that involved others, or name them. He insisted that he never broke, a fact borne out by the files of the Tower.\n\nHenry Garnet wrote about Gerard:\n\nA famous exploit of his is believed to have been masterminded by Nicholas Owen. With help from other members of the Catholic underground, Gerard, along with John Arden, escaped on a rope strung across the Tower moat during the night of 4 October 1597. Despite the fact that his hands were still mangled from the tortures he had undergone, he succeeded in climbing down. He even arranged for the escape of his gaoler (jailer), with whom he had become friendly, and who he knew would be held responsible for the jailbreak. Immediately following his escape, he joined Henry Garnet and Robert Catesby in Uxbridge. Later, Gerard moved to the house of Dowager Elizabeth Vaux at Harrowden, near Wellingborough, Northamptonshire. From this base of operations, he continued his priestly ministry, and reconciled many to the Catholic Church, including Sir Everard Digby (one of the conspirators in the Gunpowder Plot).\n\nFor the next eight years he continued his ministry among the English people before he was recalled to the continent to train Jesuits for the English Mission. He was implicated by Robert Catesby's servant Thomas Bates in the Gunpowder Plot although he denied any involvement. He stayed at Harrowden again, hiding in a priest hole. During a nine-day search of the house he wrote an open letter protesting his innocence, and contrived to have copies scattered about the streets of London, refuting the charges allegedly made by Bates. He eventually escaped from there to London. He left the country with financial aid from Elizabeth Vaux, slipping away disguised as a footman in the retinue of the Spanish Ambassador, on the very day of Henry Garnet's execution. Gerard went on to continue the work of the Jesuits in Europe, where he wrote his autobiography on the orders of his superiors. He died in 1637, aged 73, at the English College seminary, Rome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11531764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11531764", "title": "Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival (LTSF) brings the bard to life on the shores of Lake Tahoe.\n\nPerforming a series of Shakespeare classics and introducing more contemporary works, audience members take their seats on the beach overlooking the lake to enjoy a picnic dinner before the start of the show.\n\nThe Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival began in 1972 at Sugar Pine Point State Park on the west shore of Lake Tahoe. The New Shakespeare Company presented eight performances during its inaugural season. The Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival continued there for four years, until it ran into scheduling conflicts over the use of Sugar Pine Point's Ehrman Mansion.\n\nIn 1976, the company and Nevada State Parks agreed to hold the performances at Sand Harbor - even though it was considered to be a less accessible location. A bare-bones stage was hastily built for just over $1,000 in materials and labor. In 1976, the first year at Sand Harbor State Park, it is estimated over 500 people attended each of twelve performances.\n\nAt first, the Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival was managed by the staff of Lake Tahoe Nevada State Park. In 1982, the North Tahoe Fine Arts Council (NTFAC) began \"Tunes in the Dunes\" and took over the management of the Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival. The Festival prospered under the direction of NTFAC and became a cultural tradition at the park. Each year, more and more people made the trip to enjoy a picnic and a play under the stars at Sand Harbor. But in 1992, the North Tahoe Fine Arts Council folded and a new manager for the Festival was needed.\n\nThe Incline Village Crystal Bay Visitors and Convention Bureau was selected to manage the Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival. In 1995, a long-term contract was signed with the Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival, a non-profit group dedicated to managing and improving the performances at Sand Harbor. As part of the agreement, the LTSF, completely through private funding, constructed a state of the art stage facility. The Warren Edward Trepp Stage, built at a cost of nearly two million dollars, was dedicated at the start of the 2000 season. \n\nIn May 1999, the Parasol Foundation, a non-profit community foundation, was awarded a grant from the Donald W. Reynolds Foundation through the Community Services Center Program. The Community Services Program is designed to help privately supported, non-profit organizations with 501 C (3) status, join together to house their operations in a shared facility. \n\nIn 2010 the Festival hired artistic director Charles Fee to improve flagging attendance and sponsorship shortfalls due to \"economic woes\". Fee is now the producing artistic director for three Shakespeare festivals concurrently, including Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, Ohio and Idaho Shakespeare Festival in Boise, ID.\n\nThe Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival offers twelve free matinee performances throughout the Reno-Tahoe-Truckee region during the summer, specifically written and directed for a younger audience. The abbreviated performances offer an introduction to theatre for children. \n\nOffered to schools and community groups in Nevada and California from February to September, these workshops are highly interactive and feature activities to help students understand the themes of Shakespeare's works, as well as to learn acting and performance skills.\n\nFor the last few years the Lake Tahoe Shakespeare Festival has been bringing more than Shakespeare performances to the Sand Harbor Amphitheatre to entertain residents and visitors to the Reno–Lake Tahoe region, including performances by the Reno Philharmonic Orchestra, Chautauqua, Reno Jazz Orchestra, Pacific Mambo Orchestra and the Sierra Nevada Ballet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2081342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2081342", "title": "Latch-up", "text": "Latch-up\n\nA latch-up is a type of short circuit which can occur in an integrated circuit (IC). More specifically it is the inadvertent creation of a low-impedance path between the power supply rails of a MOSFET circuit, triggering a parasitic structure which disrupts proper functioning of the part, possibly even leading to its destruction due to overcurrent. A power cycle is required to correct this situation.\n\nA single event latch-up is a latch-up caused by a single event upset, typically heavy ions or protons from cosmic rays or solar flares.\n\nThe parasitic structure is usually equivalent to a thyristor (or SCR), a PNPN structure which acts as a PNP and an NPN transistor stacked next to each other. During a latch-up when one of the transistors is conducting, the other one begins conducting too. They both keep each other in saturation for as long as the structure is forward-biased and some current flows through it - which usually means until a power-down. The SCR parasitic structure is formed as a part of the totem-pole PMOS and NMOS transistor pair on the output drivers of the gates.\n\nThe latch-up does not have to happen between the power rails - it can happen at any place where the required parasitic structure exists. A common cause of latch-up is a positive or negative voltage spike on an input or output pin of a digital chip that exceeds the rail voltage by more than a diode drop. Another cause is the supply voltage exceeding the absolute maximum rating, often from a transient spike in the power supply. It leads to a breakdown of an internal junction. This frequently happens in circuits which use multiple supply voltages that do not come up in the required sequence on power-up, leading to voltages on data lines exceeding the input rating of parts that have not yet reached a nominal supply voltage. Latch-ups can also be caused by an electrostatic discharge event.\n\nAnother common cause of latch-ups is ionizing radiation which makes this a significant issue in electronic products designed for space (or very high-altitude) applications.\n\nHigh-power microwave interference can also trigger latch ups.\n\nBoth CMOS integrated circuits and TTL integrated circuits are more susceptible to latch-up at higher temperatures.\n\nAll CMOS ICs have latch-up paths, but there are several design techniques that reduce susceptibility to latch-up.\n\nIn CMOS technology, there are a number of intrinsic bipolar junction transistors. In CMOS processes, these transistors can create problems when the combination of n-well/p-well and substrate results in the formation of parasitic n-p-n-p structures. Triggering these thyristor-like devices leads to a shorting of the Vdd and GND lines, usually resulting in destruction of the chip, or a system failure that can only be resolved by power-down. \n\nConsider the n-well structure in the first figure. The n-p-n-p structure is formed by the source of the NMOS, the p-substrate, the n-well and the source of the PMOS. A circuit equivalent is also shown. When one of the two bipolar transistors gets forward biased (due to current flowing through the well, or substrate), it feeds the base of the other transistor. This positive feedback increases the current until the circuit fails or burns out.\n\nThe invention of the now industry-standard technique to prevent CMOS latch-up was made by Hughes Aircraft company in 1977.\n\nIt is possible to design chips to be resistant to latch-up by adding a layer of insulating oxide (called a \"trench\") that surrounds both the NMOS and the PMOS transistors. This breaks the parasitic SCR structure between these transistors. Such parts are important in the cases where the proper sequencing of power and signals cannot be guaranteed, such as hot swap devices. \n\nDevices fabricated in lightly doped epitaxial layers grown on heavily doped substrates are also less susceptible to latch-up. The heavily doped layer acts as a current sink where excess minority carriers can quickly recombine.\n\nMost silicon-on-insulator devices are inherently latch-up-resistant. Latch-up is the low resistance connection between tub and power supply rails.\n\nAlso to avoid the latch, a separate tap connection is put for each transistor. But this will increase the size of the device so fabs give a minimum space to put a tap, for example, 10 µm in 130 nm technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9846388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9846388", "title": "Liberal Democrat Federal Conference (UK)", "text": "Liberal Democrat Federal Conference (UK)\n\nThe Liberal Democrat Federal Conference (often referred to as the Liberal Democrat Conference) is an internal body of the Liberal Democrats, as of September 2018 the third-largest UK-wide political party in terms of both votes cast and seats in the British Parliament. The Federal Conference is the highest representative body of the Liberal Democrats, which is one of the few British political parties to use its annual gathering for voting and policy resolution. The event also features speeches from prominent party members and guests and an exhibition. There are also several fringe events, run by internal political groups such as Liberal Reform, Social Liberal Forum and Young Liberals, and a well-established late-evening entertainment revue known as the Glee Club.\nThe Federal Conference takes place twice per year, first as the \"Spring Conference\", usually held in March and then the \"Autumn Conference\", usually in September. The first Federal Conference was held in Blackpool, in North West England, from 25 to 29 September 1988, with the most recent being the 62nd Conference, held in Brighton, in Southern England, from 15 to 18 September 2018.\n\nThe Federal Conference is overseen by the \"Federal Conference Committee (FCC)\", which also selects motions and amendments for debates, runs Conference sessions and provides drafting advice and liaison. Its members are regularly elected and expected to be objective and fair in their selection of motions and amendments.\n\nThe Federal Conference does not choose the Leader of the Liberal Democrats, who is instead elected by a party-wide ballot of all members, in a one-member, one-vote contest. The system has been in use since the party's inception in 1988, predating changes to internal party voting rules by both the Labour and Conservative parties. Neither Liberal Democrat MPs, nor any other internal party groups, have special voting rights over either party policy or in the election of the party Leader.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29700127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29700127", "title": "List of foreign ships wrecked or lost in the Spanish Civil War", "text": "List of foreign ships wrecked or lost in the Spanish Civil War\n\nThe following is a list of foreign ships wrecked or lost during the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939). Only one of these vessels lost belonged to a foreign navy - \"Chasseur 91\", a French antisubmarine patrol boat - the remainder being civilian ships from different countries, most of them merchantmen involved in maritime trade with the Spanish Republic.\n\nForeign ships sunk, wrecked or lost while involved in shipping along Spain from July 1936 to April 1939.\n"}
{"id": "20547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20547", "title": "Moveable feast", "text": "Moveable feast\n\nA moveable feast or movable feast is an observance in a Christian liturgical calendar that occurs on a different date (relative to the dominant civil or solar calendar) in different years. \n\nThe most important set of moveable feasts are a fixed number of days before or after Easter Sunday, which varies by over 40 days since it depends partly on the phase of the moon and must be computed each year. In Eastern Christianity (including the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Oriental Orthodox Churches, the Assyrian Church of the East, and the Eastern Catholic Churches), these moveable feasts form what is called the Paschal cycle, which stands in contrast to the approach taken by Catholic and Protestant Christianity. \n\nMost other feast days, such as those of particular saints, are \"fixed feasts\", held on the same date every year. However, some observances are always held on the same day of the week, and thus occur on a range of days without depending on the date of Easter. For example, the start of Advent is the Sunday nearest November 30. In addition, the observance of some fixed feasts may move a few days in a particular year to not clash with that year's date for a more important moveable feast. There are rare examples of saints with genuinely moveable feast days, such as Saint Sarkis the Warrior in the calendar of the Armenian Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "4871507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4871507", "title": "Mythodea", "text": "Mythodea\n\nMythodea — Music for the NASA Mission: 2001 Mars Odyssey is a 1993 choral symphony by Greek electronic composer and artist Vangelis. Originally premiered in concert in 1993, it was published in 2001 by Vangelis' new record label Sony Classical, which also set up the NASA connection and promoted a new concert.\n\nThe 2001 version of \"Mythodea\" was recorded and played on-stage by: Vangelis on synthesizers and keyboards, the London Metropolitan Orchestra augmented by two harpists, sopranos Kathleen Battle and Jessye Norman, the chorus of the Greek National Opera, and, for the concert only, the Seistron and Typana percussion ensembles. The concert was held in Athens, Greece on June 28, 2001, and the record was officially released on October 23, 2001, to coincide with the 2001 Mars Odyssey spacecraft entering the orbit of planet Mars. A video of the concert was released in early 2002.\n\nThe world premiere of \"Mythodia\" (first spelling) took place on July 13, 1993 as a public performance at the Herodes Atticus Theater, in Athens, Greece, for charity purposes. On stage were: Vangelis, who provided the full musical score accompanied by two harpists; mezzo-soprano Markella Hatziana, soprano Lucienne Deval, and the chorus and percussion of the Greek National Lyric Stage, conducted by Yvan Cassar.\n\n\"Mythodia\" was then a piece in seven movements. Vangelis not only composed the music, he also wrote the lyrics in Ancient Greek. In a 2001 interview with \"KLEMblad\" magazine, Vangelis stated,\nFor the encore, Vangelis played a selection of his repertoire, including \"La Petite Fille de la Mer\" (from the album \"L'Apocalypse des Animaux\"), \"Chariots of Fire\", \"Pulstar\" (from the album \"Albedo 0.39\"), three tracks from the soundtrack of the film \"\" (\"Hispañola\", \"City of Isabel\" and \"Conquest of Paradise\"), and finished with a performance of the Greek national anthem.\n\n\"Mythodea\" would remain unheard in public for the next eight years, but Vangelis kept a recording of the 1993 concert for himself. Around the year 2000, Peter Gelb was the head of Sony Classical and was steering the record company in the direction of crossover music rather than mainstream classical repertoire. He had just signed with Vangelis and was in the process of selecting their first release together. Gelb was listening to some tapes that Vangelis had sent to him when he came upon \"Mythodea\". He described the event in an interview: \"When I first heard \"Mythodea\" I was in ecstasy with its rhythm and power themes, and with no further hesitation I suggested it was recorded immediately.\"\n\nWith the approval of Vangelis to record \"Mythodea\" with a full orchestra as Gelb had suggested, Sony Classical developed a marketing plan of \"Mythodea\" that with the help of Vangelis' friend and colleague, Dr. Scott Bolton, grew to include a promotional tie-in with NASA, a dedicated website, an audio CD and a live concert that involved the Greek Government and was broadcast on TV and published on video. The deal with NASA made \"Mythodea\" the official music of the mission involving the spacecraft 2001 Mars Odyssey. This mission took the spacecraft to the orbit of Mars on October 23, 2001, and the audio CD of \"Mythodea\" was scheduled to be officially released on the same day. Vangelis described the connection he felt between the music and the mission on the 2001 Mars Odyssey official website:\n\nThe premiere of the new version of \"Mythodea\" was held on June 28, 2001. By this date, the album had already been recorded and was finished. The concert was a live performance of the album, with everyone involved in the recording reprising their roles plus additional performers. The setting was the ancient (6th century BC) Temple of Olympian Zeus in Athens, Greece, featured on the album and video covers. Vangelis commented on the selection of location in an interview: \"The record company wanted to promote this work and asked me 'where [...]?' and I thought that [...] Greece was really appropriate. And at the same time I had a proposition from the Minister of Culture [...] and this is what happened.\"\n\nThe concert was filmed by a 20 members of camera crew, and taped for later broadcast on TV in November, and release on DVD. The budget was set at US $7 million, split in half between the record company, Sony Classical, and the Greek government, which considered the concert a good promotion for Greece abroad and included it as part of the Greek Cultural Olympiad leading to the 2004 Summer Olympics. There were some objections raised, mainly by fellow musician Mikis Theodorakis, over the use of both public money and an archaeological site. Vangelis himself, like in 1993, waived payment for his performance.\n\nThe spectacle involved 224 musicians on stage, the same involved in the recording: Vangelis, two harpists,s), the 75-person London Metropolitan Orchestra, the 123-person chorus of the Greek National Opera, plus 20 newcomers Greek percussion ensembles Seistron and Typana, that provided 24 timpani. The performances also included Sony Classical soprano artists Kathleen Battle and Jessye Norman. In the back, a projection screen measuring in length and in height showed images of Mars supplied by NASA, combined with elements of ancient Greek mythology.\n\nThe number of attending spectators to the ticket-paid event was between 2,000, 2,500, and 3,000 with another 30,000 people watching for free on a giant screen at the nearby Panathinaiko Stadium. The concert lasted just over one hour, after which three encores were played: \"Chariots of Fire\", \"\", and a combination of Movements 9 and 10. Mars itself made a special appearance at the concert as an announcer told the spectators to look for an orange spot shining in the clear sky above the orchestra. The concert was repeated the following day without an audience, to get extra camera angles. Despite not having been announced, around 50 people who showed up at the venue were admitted for free, authorized by Vangelis himself. \"Mythodea\" was expected to be performed by other orchestras, without Vangelis' participation, but that had not happened.\n\nThe album was recorded at the Athens Concert Hall (Athens Μέγαρο Μουσικής - Megaro Moussikis), chosen for its excellent acoustics. For the recording, Vangelis expanded the original composition of 1993 by adding two movements, extending two more and inserting some new cues throughout. The chorus parts were also touched upon, with lyrics and melodic changes.\n\nExcept for Vangelis, none of the performers of the 1993 concert reprised their roles. Instead, Vangelis was accompanied by the London Metropolitan Orchestra augmented with two harpists, sopranos Kathleen Battle and Jessye Norman (both Sony Classical artists as well), and the Greek National Opera Choir and percussion ensemble. Vangelis asked musician Blake Neely to make the instrument transcriptions and conduct the orchestra as well.\n\nAlthough the album was finished by the date of the concert in June 2001, its release was held back until October 23, 2001 to coincide with the entry of the 2001 Mars Odyssey spacecraft in the orbit of Mars. A promotional CD-audio was nevertheless given to the press at the date of the concert and a CD-audio in a blue velvet box was given to guests of a private dinner that took place after the concert. In 2004, two of these boxes were auctioned off online for charity purposes, fetching a total of US $2,435.\n\nVangelis noted that \"it's really the music that manages to speak to all. In \"Mythodea\", everyone can find something to identify with, because it's in this shared language\".\n\n\nTwo CD-singles were also released, both featuring a track called \"Mythodea Special Edit\" (3:57) which combined parts of \"Movement 9\" and \"Movement 1\", plus either \"Movement 1\" or \"Movement 7\". They were not widely available, so their original purpose may have been purely promotional, as were specifically a number of other CD-single releases.\n\nThere were variations on the track listing: some releases of the album carried alternative titles \"Movement 1\" through \"Movement 11\", and \"Mythodea Special Edit\" was sometimes included either as a bonus or as a hidden track.\n\nThe audio CD is CD-Text-enhanced, with the following header appearing on compatible players: \"Mythodea - Music for the NASA Mission: 2001 Mars Odyssey - Kathleen Battle, Jessye Norman, Vangelis\". Text for tracks appears like this one for track 4: \"Movement 3 / Vangelis - London Metropolitan Orchestra - Athens Opera Choir - K.Battle - J.Norman\".\n\nThe album reached #1 in the sales charts of Greece, where it attained platinum certification and was nominated for the 2002 \"Arion\" Greek music awards, in the category \"Best instrumental music\". In Portugal, the album reached #2 in the charts and attained silver certification for over 10,000 sales. The album reached #39 in Italy, #46 in Germany and #75 in Switzerland. At the \"Billboard\" Classical Albums chart peaked at #12 position, charting 22 weeks, while #4 position on Top Classical Albums chart.\n\nA remixed version of \"Movement 1\" is included in the Vangelis compilation \"Odyssey: The Definitive Collection\" (2003). The opening march starts with less sound effects, instruments join in one by one more clearly, and an initial spoken countdown is absent. The same \"Movement 1\" was used as the title theme of reality TV series \"Der Maulwurf\" (lit. The Mole), which was broadcast by German station Pro7 in 2001. It was also used in the soundtracks of the trailers for the Hollywood films \"X-Men\" (2000) and \"The Scorpion King\" (2002). Finally, \"Movement 9\" is included in the compilation album \"Classic Kathleen Battle /A Portrait\".\n\nA one-hour condensed edit of the concert was made available for broadcast by TV stations and later released on video, cutting the intervals and leaving just the first encore, for a total running time of 76 minutes. More significantly, the live playing and singing were replaced by the album version mixed with live applause, except the encore which retained the original full-live recording. The synchronization of the live performance with the album recording was achieved with a click track being played to the performers.\n\nThe DVD-Video and VHS were released on February 17, 2002. The DVD featured PCM stereo and 5.1 Dolby Digital sound, 16:9 non-anamorphic image, and had as extras: artist biographies, \"Making of \"Mythodea\"\", music video, an introduction by NASA, and written notes by Vangelis. The DVD-video reached gold status in Portugal, for over 14,000 sales.\n\nMusic composed, arranged and produced by Vangelis\n\nConcert conceived, designed and directed by Vangelis\n\n\nAlbum composed, arranged and produced by Vangelis\n\nConcert conceived, designed and directed by Vangelis\n\n"}
{"id": "2948405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2948405", "title": "North American International Livestock Exposition", "text": "North American International Livestock Exposition\n\nNorth American International Livestock Exposition (NAILE) is a livestock show held each November in Louisville, Kentucky and lasts for two weeks. It is billed as the \"world's largest all-breed, purebred livestock exposition\", with nine major livestock divisions with competitors from the 48 contiguous states. These divisions are beef cattle, Boer goats, dairy cattle, dairy goats, draft horses, quarter horses, llamas & alpacas, sheep, and swine. A PRCA rodeo, the North American Championship Rodeo, is also held.\n\nVisitors from 15 countries attend the Expo. Many of these go to the event to acquire purebred livestock semen and embryos to export from the United States. This makes the event attractive to American \"seedstock producers\".\n\nThe events are held at the Kentucky Exposition Center. The giant expo was established in 1974. It is produced by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under the guidance of the Kentucky State Fair Board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21587958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21587958", "title": "Reunions of the Grateful Dead", "text": "Reunions of the Grateful Dead\n\nThe Grateful Dead were an American rock band known for their lengthy, partially improvised performances, as well as for a loyal fan base who often followed the band for several shows or entire tours. They disbanded in 1995, following the death of de facto bandleader Jerry Garcia. Since then remaining members have reunited for a number of concert tours and one-off performances, often in very different configurations. The following is a list of instances where former Grateful Dead members have reunited.\n\nOther than Jerry Garcia, the Grateful Dead's main performing members were Bob Weir, Phil Lesh, Bill Kreutzmann and Mickey Hart. Garcia, Weir, Lesh and Kreutzmann were in the band from its inception in 1965 until its demise in 1995, while Hart had a tenure of 25 non-consecutive years. The other then-current or former members of the Grateful Dead who were living at the time that the band broke up were Vince Welnick, Donna Jean Godchaux, and Tom Constanten. Additionally, Bruce Hornsby was in the lineup for many Dead concerts and was considered an unofficial member of the band. Already deceased in 1995 were Ron \"Pigpen\" McKernan, Keith Godchaux, and Brent Mydland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31809175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31809175", "title": "Rotana Magazine", "text": "Rotana Magazine\n\nRotana Magazine (in Arabic مجلة روتانا pronounced Majallat Rotana) is a pan-Arab arts and entertainment weekly magazine published in Arabic by Rotana Group owned by Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal. It is distributed across the entire MENA region. \n\nThe magazine was launched in 2005 as \"Rotana\". The publisher is the Rotana Audio and Video company based in Riyadh. Hala Al Nasser was appointed editor-in-chief of the weekly in 2006, being the first woman to hold this post in the country. The magazine was renamed \"Rotana Magazine\" in the 2010-2011 period.\n\nThe magazine publishes articles by famous writers concerning beauty and fashion, celebrity news, society events, culture, health, interior design, comics, cinema, theatre, food, technology, astrology and more. Addressed mainly to Arab youth and Arab women in the Middle East, the Arab World and the Arab diaspora, the journal includes music and arts news and sections for beauty, fashion and family life. It also serves at the same time as the marketing wing for Rotana Records and dozens of its signed artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "14709167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14709167", "title": "Something Awful", "text": "Something Awful\n\nSomething Awful (SA) is a comedy website housing a variety of content, including blog entries, forums, feature articles, digitally edited pictures, and humorous media reviews. It was created by Richard \"Lowtax\" Kyanka in 1999 as a largely personal website, but as it grew, so did its contributors and content. The website has helped to perpetuate various Internet phenomena, and it has been cited as an influence on Internet culture. In 2018, Gizmodo placed it as 89th on their list of \"100 Websites That Shaped the Internet as We Know It\".\n\nThe website has been involved in a number of notable events. These include a conflict with the Spam Prevention Early Warning System, a Hurricane Katrina relief fund being caught in PayPal's red tape, an exhibition boxing match between Kyanka and movie director Uwe Boll, and the creation of the Slenderman.\n\nSomething Awful was created by Richard \"Lowtax\" Kyanka,\nwho controls the site and is supported by other contributing writers and administrators.\n\nKyanka started Something Awful several months before leaving his previous job, after using his \"Cranky Steve\" persona to write a comedic website update deriding the attitude and work performance of a fellow Planet Quake administrator. He moved the \"Cranky Steve\" personality he had created to the Something Awful site in 1999. In the years immediately following Something Awful's launch, several sponsors, including GameFan and eFront, failed to compensate Kyanka as promised for advertising on the site.\n\nIn 2001, the site began charging an activation fee (currently US$9.95) for forum access. Only members can post messages or threads; to encourage new registrations, the forums are only intermittently viewable by unregistered users. The site and forums draw continuous income from fees for new accounts, forum upgrades such as custom avatars and access to the forum archives and search features, and merchandise sales.\n\nOn July 20, 2003, the spam filtering organization Spam Prevention Early Warning System (SPEWS) added an entire class-B subnet with the Cogent ISP to their spammer list, since Cogent was hosting a known spammer that SPEWS found difficult to block. Something Awful was added to the list in the process, disrupting its ability to communicate with its customers who were using SPEWS. Upon appeal, SPEWS initially refused to delist SA. The Something Awful administrators responded by telling their users to post their support in the Usenet newsgroup \"news.admin.net-abuse.blocklisting\". However, that group and \"news.admin.net-abuse.email\" were flooded with off-topic posts and trolls from Something Awful users, incensing SPEWS advocates. The SA administrators claimed that SPEWS was attempting to hack the Something Awful server. Forum users responded by threatening to perform a distributed denial of service attack on SPEWS, although this type of behavior was strongly discouraged by Kyanka and assistant editor Zack Parsons.\n\nAs the website's servers were located in New Orleans, the site temporarily went offline in August 2005 during the flooding from Hurricane Katrina. After the site was brought to a semi-functional state, Kyanka set up a link to a PayPal account where people could donate money to the survivors of the hurricane via the Red Cross. Kyanka put in $3,000 of his own money,\nand promised to give some free merchandise to anyone who donated more than $10.\nPayPal froze the donation account, then stated that they would unfreeze the account once it was provided with proof of shipping from aggrieved buyers. Due to the nature of the collection, there were no actual \"buyers\", and it was impossible to provide proof of shipping for donation. Eventually, Kyanka contacted a customer service representative over the phone, and asked to have PayPal donate all of the money to the Red Cross. However, he was told that PayPal would only give the money to United Way of America due to their business affiliation; Kyanka initially agreed, but after receiving several emails from readers detailing alleged corruption and inefficiency within United Way, he changed his mind and told PayPal to refund all of the money to the individual donors. PayPal refunded the money, but did not refund exchange and handling fees for international donors.\n\nIn 2005, William Freund sought advice in the Something Awful gun subforum about purchasing Hevi-Shot brand ammunition several days before embarking on a \"shooting rampage\", during which he killed two people before committing suicide. Freund had stated in the thread, which was closed before the killing spree, along with his ability to post comments being revoked, that he intended to use the ammunition to defend his Halloween pumpkins from vandals.\n\nIn June 2006, Kyanka accepted an open challenge from German movie director Uwe Boll, who had offered to fight critics of his movies in a series of 10-round boxing matches. Something Awful had posted a humorous review that was critical of one of his films. The event took place in Vancouver, British Columbia on September 23, 2006; after being knocked down several times and eventually forfeiting the fight in the first round, Kyanka claimed that he had been told by Boll, a trained amateur boxer, that the fight would be just for show. To that effect, Kyanka purportedly acted like a silent film comedy character during the fight rather than seriously attempting to fight Uwe Boll.\n\nSean Smith, a leading member of the Something Awful alliance in Eve Online, was killed in the attack on Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012. Game players later paid respect to Smith by renaming space stations after him.\n\nThe frontpage article series \"Golan the Insatiable\" is the basis of an animated series of the same name that premiered on Animation Domination on Fox on July 27, 2013.\n\nThe Slender Man urban legend was created on a thread in the Something Awful forum.\n\nThe site is home to a collection of Internet forums running a highly customized version of vBulletin, charging a one-time registration fee of US$9.95 for posting privileges and full access to the forums, with additional user account and forum features available for purchase at prices ranging from US$4.95 to US$29.95.\n\nThe forums have spread several Internet memes, such as all your base are belong to us. The forum's users refer to themselves as \"Goons\". A weekly activity is \"Photoshop Phriday\", where users will modify existing images to create parodies through the use of image-editing software such as Adobe Photoshop. The website also highlights some of what its administrators believe to be exceptional forum threads in the Comedy Goldmine feature. A forum member also launched 4chan, and the Let's Play phenomenon originated in posts on the Something Awful forums.\n\nIn 2014, the American Folklife Center announced that Something Awful was one of the sites it would be archiving as part of its efforts to compile a history of digital culture.\n\nThe 2015 video game \"Dropsy\" originated as a 2008 CYOA thread on the Something Awful forums.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "654550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=654550", "title": "Sunday school", "text": "Sunday school\n\nA Sunday School is an educational institution, usually (but not always) Christian, which catered to children and other young people who would be working on weekdays.\nSunday Schools were first set up in the 1780s in England to provide education to working children. William King (see memorial in Dursley Tabernacle Church) first started a Sunday School in Dursley, Gloucestershire, and suggested to his friend Robert Raikes, that he start a similar school in Gloucester, which resulted in Raikes generally being quoted as starting the schools. Raikes was editor of the Gloucester Journal. He wrote an article in his journal, and as a result many clergymen supported the schools, which aimed to teach the youngsters reading, writing, cyphering (doing arithmetic) and a knowledge of the Bible.\n\nBy 1785, 250,000 English children were attending Sunday School. There were 5,000 in Manchester alone. By 1235, the 'Society for the Establishment and Promotion of Sunday Schools' had distributed 91,915 spelling books, 24,232 Testaments and 5,360 Bibles. The Sunday School movement was cross-denominational, and through subscription built large buildings that could host public lectures as well as classrooms. In the early days, adults would attend the same classes as the infants, as each was instructed in basic reading. In some towns, the Methodists withdrew from the large Sunday School and built their own. The Anglicans set up their own 'National' schools that would act as Sunday Schools and day schools. These schools were the precursors to a national system of education.\n\nThe role of the Sunday Schools changed with the Education Act 1870. In the 1920s they promoted sports. It was common for teams to compete in a Sunday School League. They were social centres hosting amateur dramatics and concert parties. By the 1960s, the term Sunday School could refer to the building and not to any education classes. By the 1970s even the largest Sunday School at Stockport had been demolished. Sunday School became the generic name for many different types of religious education pursued and conducted on Sundays by various denominations.\n\nThe first Sunday school may have been opened in 1751 in St Mary's Church, Nottingham. Another early start was made by Hannah Ball, a native of High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire, who founded a school there in 1769. However, the pioneer of Sunday schools is commonly, though wrongly, said to be Robert Raikes, editor of the \"Gloucester Journal\", who saw the need to prevent children in the slums from descending into crime.\n\nIn 18th-century England education was reserved for a minority and was not compulsory. The wealthy educated their children privately at home, with hired governesses or tutors for younger children. Boys of that class were often sent away to boarding school, hence these fee-based educational establishments were known, confusingly, as public schools. The town-based middle class may have sent their sons to grammar schools, while daughters were left to learn what they could from their mothers or from their fathers' libraries. The children of factory workers and farm labourers received no formal education, and typically worked alongside their parents six days a week, sometimes for more than 13 hours a day.\n\nIn 1781, after prompting from his friend William King who was already running a Sunday School in Dursley, Raikes saw the plight of children living in the Gloucester slums. In the home of a Mrs Meredith he opened a school on Sunday, the only day the boys and girls living in the slums and working in the factories could attend. Using the Bible as their textbook, he taught them to read and write.\n\nWithin four years over 250,000 children were attending schools on Sunday throughout England. In 1784 many new schools opened, including the interdenominational Stockport Sunday School, which financed and constructed a school for 5,000 scholars in 1805. In the late 19th century this was accepted as being the largest in the world. By 1831 it was reported that attendance at Sunday schools had grown to 1.2 million. Robert Raikes's schools were seen as the precursors of the English state system.\n\nThe first Sunday school in London opened at Surrey Chapel under Rowland Hill. By 1831 Sunday schools in Great Britain were attended weekly by 1,250,000 children, or about 25 per cent of the eligible population. They provided basic lessons in literacy alongside religious instruction. \n\nIn 1833, \"for the unification and progress of the work of religious education among the young\", the Unitarians founded their Sunday School Association, as \"junior partner\" to the British and Foreign Unitarian Association, with which it eventually set up offices at Essex Hall in Central London.\n\nThe work of Sunday schools in the industrial cities was increasingly supplemented by \"ragged schools\" (charitable provision for the industrial poor), and eventually by publicly funded education under the late 19th-century school boards. Sunday schools continued alongside such increasing educational provision, and new forms also developed such as the Socialist Sunday Schools movement, which began in the United Kingdom in the late 19th century.\n\nThe earliest recorded Sunday School programme in Ireland goes back to 1777 when Roman Catholic priest Daniel Delany - later (1787) Bishop Daniel Delany of Kildare and Leighlin - started a school in Tullow, County Carlow. This was a very sophisticated system which involved timetables, lesson plans, streaming, and various teaching activities. This system spread to other parishes in the diocese. By 1787 in Tullow alone there were 700 students, boys and girls, men and women, and 80 teachers. The primary intent of this Sunday School system was the teaching of the Catholic faith; the teaching of reading and writing became necessary to assist in this. With the coming of Catholic Emancipation in Ireland (1829) and the establishment of the National School system (1831), which meant that the Catholic faith could be taught in school, the Catholic Sunday School system became unnecessary.\n\nThe Church of Ireland Sunday School Society was founded in 1809. The Sabbath School Society of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland was founded in 1862.\n\nThe American Sunday school system was first begun by Samuel Slater in his textile mills in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, in the 1790s. Notable 20th-century leaders in the American Sunday School movement include: Clarence Herbert Benson, Henrietta Mears, founder of Gospel Light, Dr. Gene A. Getz, Howard Hendricks, Lois E. LeBar, Lawrence O. Richards and Elmer Towns.\n\nPhilanthropist Lewis Miller was the inventor of the \"Akron Plan\" for Sunday schools, a building layout with a central assembly hall surrounded by small classrooms, conceived with Methodist minister John Heyl Vincent and architect Jacob Snyder.\n\nJohn Heyl Vincent collaborating was Baptist layman B. F. Jacobs, who devised a system to encourage Sunday school work, and a committee was established to provide the International Uniform Lesson Curriculum, also known as the \"Uniform Lesson Plan\". By the 1800s 80% of all new members were introduced to the church through Sunday school.\n\nIn 1874, interested in improving the training of Sunday school teachers for the Uniform Lesson Plan, Miller and Vincent worked together again to found what is now the Chautauqua Institution on the shores of Chautauqua Lake, New York.\n\nSunday schools, contrary to the name, are virtually never recognized as educational institutions; rather than offering formal grades or transcripts, Sunday schools simply attempt to offer meaningful instruction concerning Christian doctrine and keep little or no record of performance for any given week. Attendance is often tracked as a means of encouraging children to attend regularly, and awards are frequently given for reaching attendance milestones.\n\nHistorically, Sunday Schools were held in the afternoons in various communities, and were often staffed by workers from varying denominations. Beginning in the United States in the early 1930s, and Canada in the 1940s, the transition was made to Sunday mornings. Sunday school often takes the form of a one-hour or longer Bible study which can occur before, during, or after a church service. While many Sunday schools are focused on providing instruction for children (especially those sessions occurring during service times), adult Sunday-school classes are also popular and widespread (see RCIA). In some traditions, the term \"Sunday school\" is too strongly associated with children, and alternate terms such as \"Adult Electives\" or \"religious education\" are used instead of \"Adult Sunday school\". Some churches only operate Sunday school for children concurrently with the adult worship service. In this case, there is typically no adult Sunday school.\n\nA number of traditional children's hymns or \"Sunday school songs\", such as \"The Wise Man Built His House Upon the Rock,\" \"Jesus Bids Us Shine\", and \"Jesus Loves Me\" have frequently been used in Sunday-school settings.\n\nIt is rare nowadays, but some Sunday schools required children to wear a uniform. This usually consisted of a dress shirt and necktie, with v-neck sweater for boys. For girls it would usually be a skirt with blouse and sometimes also a tie.\n\nIn Great Britain an agency was formed called the Religious Tract Society which helped provide literature for the Sunday School.\nIn the United States the American Sunday School Union was formed (headquartered in New York City) for the publication of literature. This group helped pioneer what became known as the International Sunday School Lessons. The \"Sunday School Times\" was another periodical they published for the use of Sunday schools.\n\n\"LifeWay Christian Resources, Gospel Light\", David C Cook, and Group Publishing are among the widely available published resources currently used in Sunday schools across the country.\n\nSunday school teachers are usually lay people who are selected for their role in the church by a designated coordinator, board, or a committee. Normally, the selection is based on a perception of character and ability to teach the Bible rather than formal training in education. Some Sunday school teachers, however, do have a background in education as a result of their occupations. Some churches require Sunday school teachers and catechists to attend courses to ensure that they have a sufficient understanding of the faith and of the teaching process to educate others. Other churches allow volunteers to teach without training; a profession of faith and a desire to teach is all that is required in such cases.\n\nIt is also not uncommon for Roman Catholic priests or Protestant pastors (church ministers) to teach such classes themselves. Some well-known public figures who teach, or have taught, Sunday school include astronaut Ron Garan, comedian Stephen Colbert, novelist John Grisham, and former U.S. president Jimmy Carter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "498971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498971", "title": "Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime show controversy", "text": "Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime show controversy\n\nSuper Bowl XXXVIII – which was broadcast live on February 1, 2004 from Houston, Texas on the CBS television network in the United States – was noted for a controversial halftime show in which Janet Jackson's breast, adorned with a nipple shield, was exposed by Justin Timberlake for about half a second, in what was later referred to as a \"wardrobe malfunction\". The incident, sometimes referred to as Nipplegate, was widely discussed. Along with the rest of the halftime show, it led to an immediate crackdown and widespread debate on perceived indecency in broadcasting. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) fined CBS a record US$550,000 which was fought in the Supreme Court, but that fine was appealed and ultimately voided by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in a 2011 ruling, and a case to reinstate the fine was refused in 2012.\n\nThe incident was ridiculed both within the United States and abroad, with a number of commentators considering the incident a planned publicity stunt, and American commentators in particular viewing it as a sign of decreasing morality in American culture, while others considered the incident harmless and argued that it received an undue amount of attention and backlash. The increased regulation of broadcasting raised concerns regarding censorship and free speech in the United States, and the FCC increased the fine per indecency violation from US$27,500 to US$325,000 shortly after the event. The halftime show that year was produced by MTV and was themed around the network's Choose or Lose campaign due to the event occurring during a presidential election year. Following the wardrobe incident, the National Football League (NFL) announced that MTV, which also produced the halftime show for Super Bowl XXXV, would not be involved in any halftime shows in the future. The MTV Chief Executive stated in an interview with Reuters that Jackson engineered the stunt, while Timberlake was informed of it just moments before he took the stage. The exposure was broadcast to a total audience of 143.6 million viewers.\n\nYouTube co-founder Jawed Karim claims that this incident was what led to the creation of the video sharing website. The incident also made \"Janet Jackson\" the most searched term, event, and image in Internet history, as well as the most searched person and term of 2004 and 2005. The incident also broke the record for \"most searched event over one day\". Jackson was later listed in the 2007 edition of \"Guinness World Records\" as \"Most Searched in Internet History\" and the \"Most Searched for News Item\". It became the most watched, recorded and replayed television moment in TiVo history and \"enticed an estimated 35,000 new [TiVo] subscribers to sign up\". The incident also coined the phrase \"wardrobe malfunction\", which was later added to the \"Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary\".\n\nFollowing the incident, CBS parent company Viacom, and their co-owned subsidiaries MTV and Infinity Broadcasting, enforced a blacklist of Jackson's singles and music videos on many radio formats and music channels worldwide. As of 2018, neither Jackson nor Timberlake are banned from the halftime show. Timberlake later performed at Super Bowl LII on February 4, 2018.\n\nIn 2002, \"Entertainment Weekly\" reported that Jackson was the original choice to perform at the halftime show for Super Bowl XXXVI, however the NFL ultimately decided to select U2 to headline it after a group of NFL owners and officials attended the band's concert in New York City shortly after the September 11 attacks. In September 2003, the NFL announced that Jackson would be the headline performer of the Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime show. Because the event was occurring during an election year, MTV decided that the show's theme would heavily focus on the network's \"Choose or Lose\" campaign, which encouraged younger viewers to be politically active and register to vote.\n\nPrior to the incident, Timberlake had attended Jackson's \"Rhythm Nation Tour\" as an adolescent, and Jackson's energetic dance routines and daring performing style made a deep impression on him. While Timberlake was a member of pop group 'N Sync, Jackson selected the boy band as the opening act for many dates of her blockbuster \"Velvet Rope World Tour\", which helped promote and introduce the then-relatively unknown group and Timberlake to the public worldwide. Timberlake said he was \"psyched\" and later described the experience as \"fulfilling\". While on the tour, Jackson further promoted the group by performing with 'N Sync on several dates, including joining the group for a live a cappella duet of Stevie Wonder's \"Overjoyed\", which a biography stated was a \"highlight\" moment for Timberlake which \"gave Justin a chance to show his family and friends how far he had come\". Following the tour, Timberlake and Jackson became \"good friends\", with Jackson also praising Timberlake. Timberlake recreated Jackson's \"That's the Way Love Goes\" video with 'N Sync and was inspired by Jackson's performing style.\n\nTimberlake had frequently mentioned admiring Jackson in many interviews during this time and throughout the following few years preceding the incident. When asked who he thought was \"the sexiest woman on the planet\", Timberlake had said \"I've thought Janet Jackson has nothing but sex appeal, so I'd probably say her.\"\n\nTimberlake later asked Jackson to sing backing vocals on \"(And She Said) Take Me Now\", a song from his debut solo album \"Justified\" which was initially planned to be released as a single, commenting \"I wrote the chorus from a girl's perspective, and I just thought we should get a female on the part. Her name was the first that popped up in my head just because I love her voice. It sounds like feathers. I mean, she sounds like an angel.\"\n\nDuring the halftime show, Jackson performed a medley of hits, beginning with \"All for You\", \"Rhythm Nation\" and a brief excerpt of \"The Knowledge\" before surprise guest Timberlake appeared to perform a duet of his song \"Rock Your Body\" with Jackson. The performance featured several suggestive dance moves by both singers, and as Timberlake reached his final line of \"Rock Your Body\", \"I'm gonna have you naked by the end of this song\", Timberlake pulled off a part of Jackson's costume, revealing her right breast, partially covered by a piece of nipple jewelry, for less than a second (after which the CBS broadcast immediately cut to an aerial view of Reliant Stadium). MTV's CEO Tom Freston claimed in an interview with the Reuters news agency that the exposure was a stunt orchestrated by Jackson. Jackson's publicist stated the performance ending was only supposed to reveal Jackson's red lace bra, though the lace undergarment was accidentally removed along with the outer layer.\n\n MTV stated, \"The tearing of Janet Jackson's costume was unrehearsed, unplanned, completely unintentional and was inconsistent with assurances we had about the content of the performance. MTV regrets this incident occurred and we apologize to anyone who was offended by it.\" The network also said, \"Our goal with the Super Bowl Halftime show was to produce an entertaining stage experience with a positive message about empowerment and voting. We are disappointed that this message has been overshadowed by the unfortunate incident\". A statement from CBS read, \"We attended all rehearsals throughout the week and there was no indication that any such thing would happen. The moment did not conform to CBS broadcast standards and we would like to apologize to anyone who was offended.\" Viacom President Mel Karmazin said that while the company can be proud of 99% of what people saw on the broadcast, it understands \"what a difference one percent can make\". NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said the show produced by MTV, which like CBS, was owned by Viacom at the time (before the two networks were respectively separated into Viacom and CBS Corporation, both controlled by National Amusements, in December 2005), fell far short of the \"tasteful, first-class entertainment\" the league expected. FCC Chairman Michael Powell, appearing before a Senate panel, called the Super Bowl incident \"a new low for prime time television\". Joe Browne, Executive Vice President of the NFL, said, \"We were extremely disappointed by elements of the MTV-produced Halftime show. They were totally inconsistent with assurances our office was given about the show. It's unlikely that MTV will produce another Super Bowl halftime.\" An hour-long MTV documentary titled \"Making the Super Bowl Halftime Show\" was scheduled to premiere the following week but was canceled before it ever aired and has never been broadcast subsequently.\n\nSalli Frattini, the executive producer for MTV who had planned the entire performance, recalled a phone call from the officiating booth that was her first indication something had gone wrong. Frattini was in a truck outside of Reliant Stadium celebrating the end of the 12-minute halftime performance, which they initially thought was a success. \"We were like, 'Uh, we’re playing that back right now'\", Frattini said. \"There was lots of chaos in the truck, and we played it back and we were like, 'Oh, s[hit]. What just happened?'\" Alex Coletti, another MTV producer, said he could not find Jackson after the performance. \"I tried to get in touch to make sure she was okay\", he said. \"Her entire camp stopped answering the phones. I finally got to her tour manager, and they were already at the airport.\" Coletti assumed the singer was so mortified that she fled immediately, though later assumed the incident was a possible \"set up\", adding it was the last time he had spoken to her. Coletti's assumption is potentially another reason for Jackson's blacklisting on MTV in addition to other music channels and radio formats. An MTV representative confirmed the costume tear was conceptualized by the MTV staff, in which the show's producers mockingly ripped their clothing in response to Timberlake's closing lyric during rehearsals. This led to Jackson and Timberlake improvising the move, in which Timberlake tore off Jackson's kilt. Frattini stated, \"When we did the original rehearsal, there was conversation about a fake skirt she would wear, and that Justin would actually pull open the skirt and take off the skirt. In rehearsal, they actually tried to rip open the skirt, which kind of went with the lyrics of the song\". The production team then discussed another option, which led to the costume tearing, although the outfit was intended to stay in place.\n\nJackson's representative explained the incident, saying, \"Justin was supposed to pull away the rubber bustier to reveal a red lace bra. The garment collapsed and her breast was accidentally revealed.\" CBS forced Jackson to release a video apology, and said \"My decision to change the Super Bowl performance was made after the final rehearsal. MTV, CBS, [and] the NFL had no knowledge of this whatsoever and unfortunately, the whole thing went wrong in the end. I am really sorry if I offended anyone, that was truly not my intention\". A written statement read, \"The decision to have a costume reveal at the end of my halftime show performance was made after final rehearsals. MTV was completely unaware of it. It was not my intention that it go as far as it did. I apologize to anyone offended – including the audience, MTV, CBS and the NFL.\" Due to the event being accidental and unintentional, Jackson refused to release another apology statement to media outlets following this. Speaking to \"USA Today\", Jackson said, \"It's truly embarrassing for me to know that 90 million [140 million] people saw my breast, and then to see it blown up on the Internet the size of a computer screen ... but there are much worse things in the world, and for this to be such a focus, I don't understand.\" Regarding continued backlash, she responded, \"Who knows...Maybe they'll get mad at something that I do in my show, but at least it won't be new to me, since I've already gone through all of this. But I feel very positive that things are going to work out just fine. Everything happens for a reason.\"\n\nPublicist Marvet Britto stated, \"Jackson embodies grace, style and integrity...She has never been known as a bad person.\" Britto describes Jackson’s videotaped apology as \"impersonal\", saying, \"She has never been an impersonal artist, so it made it seem like she was guilty of something, and she wasn't. I would have had her and Timberlake apologizing side by side right from the beginning, since they performed side by side. Otherwise, it made the whole apology seem calculated and contrived.\" Jackson said of the apology, \"I probably should have done it live. But there was so much going on at the time that I needed to just get it done. It is what it is. And it will pass, and I'm fine with it.\" At one point Jackson was scheduled to be interviewed about the incident by Diane Sawyer on the ABC newsmagazine \"Primetime\", however, the interview never came to fruition. Jackson later briefly discussed the incident on \"Good Morning America\" and the \"Late Show with David Letterman\". Jackson's outfit was designed by famed designer Alexander McQueen, with Jackson later commenting \"I don't blame him; he didn't rip it. Alexander is so great at what he does – he's a genius.\" In an interview with Australia's \"Herald Sun\", Jackson commented on Timberlake (whom, as mentioned, Jackson had previously known personally and aided when she selected his former group 'N Sync to open for her \"Velvet Rope World Tour\" at the start of their career) distancing himself from the incident and seemingly changing with fame. \"I really want to be honest about this, but I just feel that anything I say about him will be taken the wrong way\", said Jackson. \"I do think that Justin is very talented and that he has a very big career ahead of him. But he seems to have changed recently. He's gotten a bit cocky. You know, some people can handle success and some people can't. I'm starting to wonder if (the latter) is the case with Justin. And it hurts me to say that.\" Producer Jimmy Jam revealed Jackson considered writing a song about the incident for her \"Damita Jo\" album, saying, \"I don't know whether it will or not. But I have a feeling it probably will, because kind of whatever's happening in her life tends to be what she writes about [...] It'd be kind of interesting to see what her feeling is about it.\"\n\nMichael Musto of \"The Village Voice\" commented on the media's reaction to the incident, saying, \"Janet became a symbolic Joan of Arc to burn at the stake. I actually do think her breast was used as a diversionary tactic – I'm not sure to distract from Iraq specifically – but it did distract from important issues, from things we actually should be appalled by. The story got an undue amount of attention when the fact is, nobody has proved how her breast harmed anyone.\" Speaking to Robert Tannenbaum of \"Blender Magazine\", Jackson had strong, if guarded, views on the reactions, saying the furor \"is hypocritical, with everything you see on TV. There are more important thing to focus on than a woman's body part, which is a beautiful thing. There's war, famine, homelessness, AIDS\". The fact that it happened in an election year \"did have a great deal to do with it. They needed something to focus on instead of the war, and I was the perfect vehicle for that. People are going to think what they want. It was an accident. It was not a stunt. That was embarrassing for me to have all those people see my breast. That's like having your penis hanging out in front of millions and millions of people.\"Janet declared the reaction to the accidental exposure as \"contradictory\", noting it to occur in an era where commercials for beer and Viagra are both \"very sexual\" and \"practically omnipresent\". Jackson also said the mishap was \"not intentional\" and a \"costume accident\", also commenting on some media outlets editing her taped apology, saying, \"Sometimes they cut out that I said it was an accident...That's what the media does, that's the way they are because they want it to be told a different way.\" In \"Glamour Magazine\", Janet exclaimed, \"It's hard to believe that there's a war and famine going on in the world and yet people made such a big deal about a breast. People said that it was done intentionally to sell records. Do you know what? I have never pulled a stunt. Why would you do that and have your album come out two months later? It doesn't make sense.\" In the ensuing months, Janet felt overwhelmed by the hostility towards her. \"People think I'm immune to being hurt by what's said. They ask me questions that shock me. Not everybody is as strong as the next person and words can kill. People push you and you start to think, 'Can I handle this?' But I know I can.\"\n\nImmediately following the incident, Timberlake sounded unapologetic for his actions, telling \"Access Hollywood\", \"Hey man, we love giving you all something to talk about.\" Timberlake released a statement saying \"I am sorry that anyone was offended by the wardrobe malfunction during the halftime performance of the Super Bowl. It was not intentional and is regrettable.\" However, Timberlake was not required to film a video apology as Jackson was. Timberlake also addressed the incident at the Grammy Awards the following week, which Jackson was banned from attending after being scheduled as a presenter, saying \"I know it's been a rough week on everybody. What occurred was unintentional, completely regrettable and I apologize if you guys are offended.\" Timberlake gave an additional interview at the Grammy event and stated, \"All I could say was, 'Oh, my God. Oh, my God,'\" Timberlake said. \"I looked at her. They brought a towel up on stage. They covered her up. I was completely embarrassed and just walked off the stage as quickly as I could. I'm frustrated at the whole situation. I'm frustrated that my character is being questioned. And the fact of the matter is, you know, I've had a good year, a really good year, especially with my music.\" Timberlake later declared, \"It was something that went wrong. Then I felt like, I'm going to show everyone that this was something that didn't affect me, and I'm going to show up at the Grammys.\" He later said he was unable to attend most of the halftime rehearsals due to being on tour in Spain, having only one day to rehearse. While promoting his sophomore album \"FutureSex/LoveSounds\" over two years later, Timberlake expressed regret for his behavior, saying, \"In my honest opinion now ... I could've handled it better. ... I'm part of a community that consider themselves artists. And if there was something I could have done in her defense that was more than I realized then, I would have. But the other half of me was like, 'Wow. We still haven't found the weapons of mass destruction and everybody cares about this!'\" He added, \"I probably got 10 percent of the blame, and that says something about society ... I think that America's harsher on women. And I think that America is, you know, unfairly harsh on ethnic people.\"\n\nJackson suspected ulterior motives in the media's reaction, expressing, \"It was just perfect timing to take people's focus off of other things. That's what happens, and it happened to me.\" Accounts from several university leaders and management groups offered a similar premise. Michael Rich, director of Harvard's Center on Media and Child Health, exclaimed, \"Here we have Michael Powell upset about the happening in the Super Bowl, but the same Powell has been unwilling to do anything about the violence on television, where there has been much more research showing it has a harmful impact on kids.\" Robert Thompson, founding director of the Center for the Study of Popular Television at Syracuse University, said, \"Michael Powell is representing the Super Bowl like everybody in the family sits around knitting booties, or like, it's the Macy's Day Parade. [...] Come on. There's gambling, there's a lot of drinking, partying, a carnival atmosphere\", he asserted. Jay Rosenthal, attorney for the Recording Artists' Coalition, says the FCC's involvement was a smoke-screen, or a \"sound bite attempt\" by the Republican-led commission to act as if it's doing something. \"When it comes to media consolidation issues affecting consumers and artists, they don't care about that. But when it comes to indecency, after ignoring it for years, all of a sudden they're snapping to attention\", he said. Simon Renshaw of management group The Firm stated it to be \"inappropriate\" that Powell is trying to distract people from the real issues of what's currently going on in the media. \"What I find offensive is CBS' refusal to carry MoveOn.org's ad during the Super Bowl\", which pictured children working in factories to pay off the Bush administration's budget deficit. The \"Boston Legal\" episode \"Let Sales Ring\" likened the incident to being used as a distraction, portraying a news corporation which used the mishap to attract attention over other important events in the media. Daniel Kreps of \"Rolling Stone\" explained, \"For the FCC, Nipplegate provided an opportunity to restore order and flex whatever power they had left. Faced with lax broadcast standards for cable TV and satellite radio, as well as the absolute lawlessness of the Internet, the FCC becomes hell-bent on preserving common decency in the family-friendly realm of network television. Thus, screws are tightened everywhere under the body's jurisdiction: Tape delays are lengthened and more frequent and sexually suggestive performances are replaced by less provocative selections. While the aftermath of Nipplegate starts to fade, the FCC will continue to carry its torch for the next half-decade.\" Cynthia Fuchs of \"Popmatters\" stated, \"It behooves TV producers and consumers to focus their attentions on significant \"news\", rather than the daily distractions offered up by politicians, performers, professional spinners, and journalists. Janet is not that person you watch on TV. And neither is anyone else.\"\n\nA decade after the incident, former FCC chairman Michael Powell gave his first interview regarding Jackson's performance, saying Jackson was treated unfairly and the controversy, including his own reaction, was completely overblown. Powell stated, \"I think we've been removed from this long enough for me to tell you that I had to put my best version of outrage on that I could put on. Part of it was surreal, right? Look, I think it was dumb to happen, and they knew the rules and were flirting with them, and my job is to enforce the rules, but, you know, really? This is what we're gonna do?\" Powell also said the treatment of Jackson, who was lambasted for causing \"an outrageous stunt\", was unfair, and commented on Timberlake not receiving the same backlash. \"I personally thought that was really unfair\", he said. \"It all turned into being about her. In reality, if you slow the thing down, it’s Justin ripping off her breastplate.\"\n\nIn the United States, the exposure of Jackson's breast by Timberlake led to much media attention and headlines, in which it was sometimes referred to as \"Nipplegate\". The socially conservative media watchdog group Parents Television Council (PTC) issued a statement that same day condemning the halftime show, announcing that their members would file indecency complaints with the FCC and the council supported the Commission's decision to investigate the halftime show immediately. In addition, the FCC received nearly 540,000 complaints from Americans, with the PTC claiming responsibility for around 65,000 of them. In its appeal to the Third Circuit Court, CBS disputed how many of the complaints were filed by individual, non-organized viewers. Columnists L. Brent Bozell III (who also founded the Parents Television Council) and Phyllis Schlafly also expressed criticism of the halftime show in their weekly columns. Democratic senator Zell Miller of Georgia, both on the floor of the United States Senate and in an editorial on Salon.com, denounced the halftime show as what he perceived as declining morality in America. The day immediately following the Super Bowl, then-FCC chairman Michael Powell ordered an investigation into the halftime show.. Timberlake told CBS owned-and-operated station KCBS-TV in Los Angeles a few days following the Super Bowl that even his own family was offended by the mishap at the end of the halftime show. However, an Associated Press poll taken nearly three weeks after the Super Bowl found that although 54% of American adults considered the exposure distasteful, only 18% supported the FCC's investigation. Film director Spike Lee, speaking at Kent State University at Stark on February 3, called the incident a \"new low\" in entertainment.\n\nThe Super Bowl controversy was also a subject of humor on all of the late-night talk shows. For example, CBS's own \"Late Show with David Letterman\" mocked the incident all week following the Super Bowl. Host David Letterman jokingly commented on the controversy the day after the Super Bowl that he \"was happy to see this thing happen ... because that meant for one night I wasn't the biggest boob on CBS\". The next day, he also joked that President George W. Bush formed a \"Department of Wardrobe Security\" to prevent further wardrobe malfunctions. On February 4, Letterman opened his monologue by joking about having a wardrobe malfunction. Additionally, the Top Ten Lists featured on the program on that same night briefly referenced the incident. Jackson's appearance on the \"Late Show\" the following month increased the show's ratings 20% from the program's usual weeknight opener. Larry King also stated Jackson jokingly gave him a pair of suspenders with open holes around the nipples, commenting \"I wore them once, they were cute.\" Democratic presidential candidate Howard Dean called the FCC's investigation \"silly\", commenting \"In general, I think the FCC does have a role in promoting some reasonable standard of decency. However, considering what's on television these days, I think the FCC is being pretty silly about investigating this.\" Dean added \"I don't find it terribly shocking relative to some of the things you can find on standard cable television. I think the FCC probably has a lot of other things they should be pursuing.\"\n\n\"South Park\" (aired on Comedy Central, a sister network to CBS at the time, and to MTV through Viacom) took aim at the hysteria in its eighth season premiere, \"Good Times with Weapons\", on March 17 of that year when Eric Cartman sneaks across a stage in the nude and later blames the incident on a \"wardrobe malfunction\". The townspeople are angered by Cartman's display, rather than feeling concern for a badly injured and disoriented character (Butters) who is also present on stage – a reference to the American culture's acceptance of violence while maintaining a taboo against nudity. During the 2004 MTV Video Music Awards, comedian Dave Chappelle joked that his appearance on the VMAs was \"the biggest mistake [MTV made] since [they] put Janet Jackson on the Super Bowl.\" \"Family Guy\" also did an episode based around the \"wardrobe malfunction\" and the FCC's crackdown on \"indecent\" content, with one scene parodying the incident directly. The fourth season episode \"PTV\" involved actor David Hyde Pierce having a trouser malfunction at the Emmys. The FCC's sudden crackdown on indecent material on television leads an angered Peter Griffin to start his own network with looser content standards, PTV, on which later in the same episode, he presents a show called the \"Side Boob Hour\" which among other risque programs he puts on leads his objected wife Lois to call the FCC to crack down on PTV (leading to the implication of the FCC also regulating what his family says and does).\n\nThe halftime show continued to be a subject of discussion in 2005. At the beginning of 2005, the parody newspaper \"The Onion\" ran as its headline article for January 26, 2005, \"U.S. Children Still Traumatized One Year After Seeing Partially Exposed Breast On TV\". The article's satirical target was the nation's reaction to the incident, rather than the incident itself. On February 1, 2005, exactly one year after the halftime show, the PTC released a report titled \"MTV Smut Peddlers: Targeting Kids with Sex, Drugs, and Alcohol\", covering MTV programming during the network's \"Spring Break\" week from March 20 to 27, 2004, accusing MTV of irresponsibly promoting sex, drugs and alcohol to impressionable youth. In response to the report, MTV network executive Jeannie Kedas argued that the report \"underestimates young people's intellect and their level of sophistication.\" On February 6, however, \"New York Times\" columnist Frank Rich argued that censorship on television was becoming more prevalent following the halftime show in his February 6, 2005 column \"The Year of Living Indecently\". Examples he cited included more than 60 ABC-affiliated stations (including those owned by the E. W. Scripps Company, Hearst-Argyle Television and Cox Broadcasting) refusing to broadcast \"Saving Private Ryan\" due to the profanity prevalent throughout the film, which was to be aired unedited in its entirety by the network, and PBS editing obscene language out of certain programs such as the British terrorist drama \"Dirty War\". The ESPN series \"Playmakers\" was also immediately forced to be canceled by the NFL following the incident. A commercial from Budweiser, which depicted a man opening a beverage on the outfit's breastplate and tearing it before it was worn, was intended to be aired during Super Bowl XXXIX the following year, but was pulled before its broadcast.\n\nIn Canada, where the Super Bowl telecast was broadcast by the Global Television Network, the incident passed largely without controversy: only about 50 Canadians complained about the incident to the Canadian Broadcast Standards Council (CBSC). The CBSC received roughly twice as many complaints about other aspects of the Super Bowl broadcast, including music and advertising issues (though some were expected complaints about Canadian content/simsub issues preventing viewing of the popular American advertisements, which is a common issue among Canadian viewers of the Super Bowl to the present day). Professor Robert Thompson, director of the Center for the Study of Popular Television at Syracuse University, stated: \"I know many people in other countries are scratching their heads and thinking 'What in the world is the big fuss over there?'\"\n\nNew Zealand news outlets re-broadcast the \"nipplegate\" moment (some in slow motion) with commentary explaining that American ultra-conservatives had made the incident into a major controversy. The nation's largest newspaper, the New Zealand Herald, ran an op-ed from a New Zealander living in the US detailing his bafflement at his American friends, who had expressed outrage at the glimpse of nipple while supporting their country's invasion of Iraq and being fans of the television show \"Sex and the City\".\n\nOn February 4, Terri Carlin, a banker residing in Knoxville, Tennessee, filed a class action lawsuit against Jackson and Timberlake on behalf of \"all American citizens who watched the outrageous conduct\". The lawsuit alleged that the halftime show contained \"sexually explicit acts solely designed to garner publicity and, ultimately, to increase profits for themselves\". The lawsuit sought maximum punitive and compensatory damages from the performers. Carlin later dropped the lawsuit. Three months later, Eric Stephenson, a lawyer from Farmington, Utah, filed a US$5,000 lawsuit in small-claims court against Viacom for false advertising of the Super Bowl halftime show, as he, the father of three young children, claimed that pre-game advertising led him to believe that the halftime show would consist of marching bands, balloons and a patriotic celebration. The lawsuit was rejected because Stephenson should have filed a federal lawsuit or complaint to the FCC, which was already investigating the halftime show.\n\nAmerica Online, the Internet service provider that sponsored the halftime show, demanded a refund of the approximately US$7.5 million that it paid to sponsor and advertise on the halftime show. However, no other advertisers of the Super Bowl had similar demands.\nThe incident triggered a rash of fines that the FCC levied soon after the Super Bowl, alleging that the context of the \"wardrobe malfunction\" was intended \"to pander, titillate and shock those watching\" because it happened within the lyrics within Timberlake's performance of \"Rock Your Body\": \"Hurry up 'cause you're taking too long ... better have you naked by the end of this song.\" In addition, the FCC cited a news article on MTV's website (MTV.com) claiming that the halftime show would promise \"shocking moments\" and that \"officials of both CBS and MTV were well aware of the overall sexual nature of the Jackson/Timberlake segment, and fully sanctioned it – indeed, touted it as 'shocking' to attract potential viewers\". CBS, however, argued that the exposure was unplanned, although in later statements CBS asserted that while the exposure was unplanned by CBS, it was deliberately planned by Timberlake and Jackson \"independently and clandestinely\". On September 22, 2004, the FCC fined Viacom the maximum penalty of US$27,500 for each of the 20 CBS-owned television stations (including satellites of WFRV in Green Bay, WCCO in Minneapolis and KUTV in Salt Lake City; current CBS owned-and-operated station KOVR in Sacramento at the time was owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group) for a fine totaling US$550,000, the largest ever placed against a television broadcaster at that time. However, the Parents Television Council and even some of the FCC commissioners criticized the Commission for fining only 20 CBS stations, not all of them, for the halftime show. 66% of respondents to a March 2005 \"Time\" magazine poll believed that the FCC overreacted to the halftime show by fining CBS.\n\nOn November 24, 2004, Viacom paid out US$3.5 million to settle outstanding indecency complaints and stated that it would challenge the US$550,000 penalty related to the incident, on the grounds that the broadcast was unintentional and thus exempt from indecency regulation. In March 2006, the FCC affirmed that the Super Bowl halftime show was indecent, so CBS paid the FCC's issued fine in July 2006 in order to take their appeal against their fine to federal court. CBS appealed the fine on September 17 at the U.S. Third Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia.\n\nOn July 21, 2008, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of CBS, voiding the FCC's fine on the grounds that the enforcement involved a significant deviation from prior practice that was not announced as a clear policy change. On May 4, 2009, however, the Supreme Court vacated and remanded the case back to the Third Circuit for reconsideration in light of the previously decided \"Federal Communications Commission v. Fox Television Stations (2009)\".\n\nOn November 2, 2011, the Third Circuit Court ruled 2–1 that its earlier decision was correct, citing that the broadcast was legal under the FCC's then-current policy of allowing \"fleeting\" indecency on the airwaves, and that it was unfair of the FCC to change the policy retroactively. On June 29, 2012, the Supreme Court declined an FCC appeal. \n\nPrior to the broadcast, CBS rejected the MoveOn.org Super Bowl ad \"Bush in 30 Seconds\" because it was deemed too controversial. CBS stated that it had a \"decades-old\" policy of rejecting advertisements regarding \"controversial issues of public importance\", although MoveOn charged that the networks had previously accepted similar advertisements from other groups. The Super Bowl broadcast featured numerous commercials for erectile dysfunction medicines and advertisements for Anheuser-Busch's Bud Light brand featuring a flatulating horse and a dog attacking male genitalia; however, no politically charged advertisements appeared during the telecast. CBS, which also held the rights to Super Bowl XLIV, later aired a commercial during that game featuring then-Florida Gators quarterback Tim Tebow and his mother that discreetly refer to their pro-life viewpoints. The ad, sponsored by Focus on the Family, received similar controversy. In a league-mandated policy meant to clear the airwaves of such advertisements, the NFL announced that those types of commercials would not air again during Super Bowl broadcasts (the league ended an advertising relationship with Levitra in March 2007 as an official league sponsor).\n\nIn January 2005, Fox, the network that carried Super Bowl XXXIX under the NFL's alternating network contract for the championship game, rejected an advertisement for the cold remedy Airborne that briefly featured the naked buttocks of veteran actor Mickey Rooney.\n\nMoments after the Jackson-Timberlake tangle, streaker Mark Roberts added to the controversial halftime by running around the field naked except for some writing on his body which read \"SUPER BOWEL\" on the front, an advertisement for an online betting website, and a well-placed G-string attached to half of a miniature football covering Roberts' genitals. Part of Roberts' stunt was broadcast in the United States; CBS chose to keep its cameras in a wide-shot view of the stadium and use quick cutaways to players and coaches as Roberts ran around the field until players from both competing teams, the New England Patriots and the Carolina Panthers, tackled him. Matt Chatham, the Patriots' special teams expert and reserve linebacker initially knocked Roberts down, thus allowing stadium security and police to arrest Roberts and take him into custody.\n\nAside from Jackson's exposure, minor controversy around the show's other performances included rappers P. Diddy and Nelly gesturing towards their crotches, stripping cheerleaders, and musician Kid Rock appearing in a poncho made from a slit American flag, which he later threw towards the audience. U.S. Senator Zell Miller complained that Kid Rock's outfit was a desecration of the American flag.\n\nWebsite Soap Opera Central speculated that the fallout from this incident may have had a subtle effect on daytime television. These television shows are known for \"love in the afternoon\" and regularly feature romantic couplings; shortly before the Super Bowl, the Procter & Gamble soap operas \"As the World Turns\" and \"Guiding Light\" had gone as far as featuring rear male nudity during sexual scenes. After the Super Bowl controversy, FCC commissioner Michael J. Copps stated that it was time for a crackdown on inappropriate sexual content in daytime television, and indicated that he was reviewing whether soap operas were violating the agency's indecency prohibitions.\n\nTwo other major sporting events that followed the Super Bowl that year also were forced to censor their respective halftime shows following the incident. The Pro Bowl, which would be played on February 8 at Aloha Stadium in Hawaii, originally was to feature singer JC Chasez, who was a member of boy band 'N Sync as was Timberlake, sing the National Anthem before the game and perform his hit song \"Blowin' Me Up (with Her Love)\" at halftime. However, the NFL did not allow Chasez to perform during halftime due to the sexually suggestive content of his chosen song (even though the game was carried by ESPN, which is not under the content purview of the FCC as it is a cable network, and therefore only self-regulates content as an advertiser-supported service), replacing it with traditional Hawaiian dancers. The 2004 NBA All-Star Game also censored its act, despite being broadcast on TNT (which in reiteration, is not bound by FCC content regulations as a cable network), having halftime performer Beyoncé Knowles perform \"Crazy in Love\" rather than \"Naughty Girl\", which they feared would incite controversy given its sexual content. Jackson was in attendance at the game, and dressed conservatively. The networks that were to broadcast the 46th Grammy Awards (CBS) and the 76th Academy Awards (ABC), live events scheduled for February 8 and February 29 respectively, enhanced their broadcast delays to accommodate editing of inappropriate video in addition to audio.\n\nFollowing these announcements, \"Guiding Light\" edited out nudity from an episode that had already been taped. A week later, the show's executive producer John Conboy was fired and replaced by Ellen Wheeler. All nine American network soaps began to impose an unwritten rule of avoiding any sort of risqué adult scenes, and in the months following, editors of soap opera periodical \"Soap Opera Digest\" wrote about how daytime television was losing its steam. NBC also re-edited a scene from an episode of its medical drama \"ER\" where paramedics were wheeling an elderly woman into the hospital, and her breast could be seen non-explicitly in the context of her injury and treatment. Even as late as Veterans Day (November 11) of 2004, 65 ABC-affiliated stations pre-empted the uncut network presentation of the film \"Saving Private Ryan\" over concerns about the film's violent and profane content and FCC regulations. Benjamin Svetkey of \"Entertainment Weekly\" quoted L. Brent Bozell III and Peggy Noonan associating the mass pre-emption of \"Ryan\" with the halftime show incident. The annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show was cancelled for that year in reaction to the incident.\n\nA petition was filed by a consortium of broadcasters (which included Viacom) and the RIAA over an FCC indecency ruling, regarding fleeting expletives uttered by Bono of U2 when accepting an award at the 60th Golden Globe Awards in 2003. It argued that the FCC had implemented a standard \"that would allow it to censor all kinds of things — anything considered blasphemous, coarse or vulgar\", and observed that many radio stations, especially rock-formatted stations, had been engaging in self-censorship by censoring or removing songs from their libraries, so that they would not run afoul of the stricter regulation. Clear Channel Communications removed talk-radio host Howard Stern from several of its large-market radio stations within a month of the incident, citing the raunchy content of Stern's show. The FCC fined Clear Channel over allegedly indecent content on the Bubba the Love Sponge radio show. As a result of the incident, some networks established regulations requiring time delays of as much as five minutes for live broadcasts such as awards shows and sporting events. In late 2004, the United States House of Representatives passed a bill to raise the maximum FCC fine penalty from said US$27,500 to US$500,000 per violation; the United States Senate voted to decrease it to US$275,000 per incident, with a cap of US$3 million per day. By June 2006, the two houses reconciled the differences in fine levels, settling for a fine of US$325,000 per violation in the Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act of 2005.\n\nThe incident also prompted tighter control over content by station owners and managers. Viacom, at the center of the controversy, also employed the controversial Howard Stern in its radio division (at the time called Infinity Broadcasting). The expanding control on content is said to be a contributing factor that drove Stern away from terrestrial radio and onto Sirius Satellite Radio, and is sometimes credited as the media figure most responsible for introducing a new era in radio. It has also been reported that some teen-oriented awards shows in the summer of 2004 had also been purged of most sexual and profane content that had been perceived as staples in such awards telecasts in the past, including Fox's Teen Choice Awards and MTV's self-created Video Music Awards. Author Frederick S. Lane stated in an interview with John Eggerton of \"Broadcasting & Cable\" magazine that the controversy surrounding the halftime show was the primary inspiration for his 2006 book \"The Decency Wars: The Campaign to Cleanse American Culture\", which explains moral controversies in the American media over the years.\n\nThe Super Bowl itself would not feature a modern act for its halftime show for the next six years, opting instead for classic rockers such as Paul McCartney, The Rolling Stones, Prince, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, and The Who (McCartney, the Stones and The Who were all part of the British Invasion of the 1960s). In fact, no women performed at the Super Bowl halftime show at all until The Black Eyed Peas performed in 2011.\n\nIn 2012, during the halftime show for Super Bowl XLVI, rapper M.I.A. pointed up her middle finger during her performance. That incident drew comparisons with the exposure of Janet Jackson's breast in the Super Bowl halftime show eight years prior. The Associated Press asserted that people learned what M.I.A. did only when reports surfaced in the media and quoted TV critic James Poniewozik: \"I had no idea she even did it until NBC issued an apology for it.\" NBC blurred the entire screen albeit a second too late to obscure M.I.A. giving the finger. The NFL ultimately sued M.I.A. for US$1.5 million on breach of contract grounds. The lawsuit was settled in August 2014 and the terms of the settlement remained private. As an indication of the reduced level of complaints, only 222 complaints were filed over the incident.\n\nSports would be greatly affected by the controversy. Three weeks later, NASCAR announced at the driver and crew chief meeting at North Carolina Speedway that it would stiffen penalties on use of improper language or gestures including larger fines, loss of points (if it occurred in a post-race interview or after the driver fell out of a race), ejection of a team from the race, or lap penalties (if in-race) under the circuit's \"detrimental to NASCAR\" rule. Johnny Sauter was fined US$10,000 and 25 points a week after the new rule took in effect for obscene language in an interview. Later in 2004, Dale Earnhardt, Jr. received a 25-point penalty and a US$50,000 fine when he used an obscenity after winning the 2004 EA Sports 500 at Talladega Superspeedway. He lost the championship lead after that incident and lost the championship by 100 points after the incident. In 2007, Tony Stewart received a similar penalty after using an obscenity in a post-race interview following his Brickyard 400 win. Kyle Busch, in November 2010, was fined US$25,000 for an obscene gesture caught on ESPN, along with an in-race two-lap penalty, as the gesture was aimed at a NASCAR official.\n\nThe NFL also came under some smaller controversies over its telecasts. The FCC received a complaint about Fox's telecast of a January 2005 playoff game between the Green Bay Packers and Minnesota Vikings; the complainant alleged that Minnesota player Randy Moss, who scored a touchdown, apparently made movements appearing to moon the spectators. However, the FCC denied the complaint because Moss was fully clothed at all times, and his gestures were shown for only a few seconds, thus warranting that the display was not indecent; game announcer Joe Buck also immediately condemned the act (and additionally, Moss was fined by the NFL). On January 13, 2007, during Fox's coverage of an NFL playoff game between the New Orleans Saints and Philadelphia Eagles, the camera cut to the stands, showing for four seconds a shirt with the words \"Fuck DA EAGLES\" that was worn by a female spectator. That drew a backlash from the Parents Television Council, which filed complaints with the FCC.\n\nDuring NBC's live broadcast of Super Bowl XLIII on February 1, 2009, the five-year anniversary of the original incident, affiliate KVOA-TV's analog broadcast feed (the high definition feed of the station was unaffected) over Comcast's Tucson, Arizona system was interrupted by an unknown party, when an excerpt of a film aired by adult cable channel Shorteez was broadcast for 30 seconds to local Comcast subscribers just after Larry Fitzgerald scored his fourth-quarter touchdown to take the Cardinals to a 23–20 lead. Afterwards, 10 seconds of an end credit segment from ClubJenna (which, like Shorteez, is owned by Playboy Enterprises) was shown. Comcast offered a US$10 credit for customers who claimed to have seen the incident, and the Federal Communications Commission announced that it would investigate the cause of the incident. E! Online columnist Josh Grossberg stated: \"This almost makes us nostalgic for the days of Nipplegate.\"\n\nFrederick S. Lane argued in his 2006 book \"The Decency Wars\" that the Super Bowl halftime show controversy influenced the primary focus on \"moral values\" and \"media decency\" in the 2004 Democratic Party primaries. Jackson claimed the incident was used in the media as a diversion for President George W. Bush's poor approval ratings and the Iraq War, with Bush and First Lady Laura Bush giving public commentary on the incident rather than focusing on other issues.\n\nViacom CEO Les Moonves ordered that Janet Jackson's singles and music videos be blacklisted from all of its properties, including CBS, MTV, and its radio station group Infinity Broadcasting. Jackson was intended to appear at the 46th Grammy Awards, which was being held the following week and televised by CBS, but her invitation was withdrawn due to the incident. Jackson was originally scheduled to appear as a presenter for a tribute to Luther Vandross, performed by Celine Dion, Richard Marx and Alicia Keys, and was chosen due to previously collaborating with Vandross on the number-one hit \"The Best Things in Life Are Free\". According to \"People Magazine\", Jackson \"had been slated to speak before the accolade but was being pressured to bow out gracefully – or face being uninvited\", before later being completely barred from attending. However, Timberlake was still allowed to attend and perform at the event. The majority of the artists at the ceremony were also asked to comment on Jackson's incident. \n\nJackson had also been cast to play Lena Horne in a movie about the singer and activist's life, which was to be produced by ABC, but was forced to resign following the performance incident. A statue of Mickey Mouse wearing Jackson's iconic \"Rhythm Nation\" outfit was mantled at Walt Disney World theme park the previous year to honor Jackson's legacy, but was removed following Jackson's controversial performance. A spokesman for Disney said, \"Considering all the controversy [the performance] drew, we talked it over for a couple of days and decided it would be best to replace hers with a new one.\"\n\nThe blacklisting affected promotion of Janet Jackson's first album released since the incidient \"Damita Jo\"—her eighth studio album. A majority of the reviews for the album, including those by AllMusic, the BBC, \"Entertainment Weekly\", \"The Guardian\" and \"The New York Times\" focused on the negative backlash suffered by Jackson as a result of the incident but gave favorable reviews to the album itself. \"Blender Magazine\" considered the album's success to be \"a minor-chord \"F-you\" victory to the wolves nipping at Janet's tits.\" Despite the blacklisting, \"Damita Jo\" was a success and certified Platinum, selling over three million copies worldwide and also receiving a Grammy nomination. Singles from the album like \"Just a Little While\" and \"All Nite (Don't Stop)\" reached #1 on the Hot Dance Club Songs chart. Although receiving positive reception, the incident also affected the performance of following albums \"20 Y.O.\" and \"Discipline\" due to the blacklist. However, \"20 Y.O.\" managed to sell over 1.5 million copies worldwide, was certified Platinum in the US and received a Grammy nomination. Additionally, \"Feedback\" reached the top 20 pop hit on the Billboard Hot 100, selling one million copies worldwide. Subsequent releases \"Make Me\" peaked atop the Hot Dance Club Songs and top 20 internationally; \"Nothing\" reached #1 on the digital pop and music video charts, also considered for an Oscar nomination.\n\nIn her first interview since the incident, Jackson appeared on CBS's \"Late Show with David Letterman\" on March 29, 2004, which increased the show's ratings over 20%. In April 2004, Jackson poked fun at herself in an appearance on \"Saturday Night Live\", first while playing Condoleezza Rice in a skit, nervously answering a question by exposing her right breast (which was pixelated by NBC), and again by viewing a mock home video from her childhood in which her bathing suit top came off in a wading pool, calling it a \"swimsuit malfunction\". An NBC spokesman said Jackson was wearing a bra beneath her blouse during the skit. During a performance on ABC's \"Good Morning America\", the network promoted Jackson's appearance as her \"first live performance since the Super Bowl\", hinting at the chance of shock value. \"Blender Magazine\" recalled \"Photographers and camera crews are packed in, in case Jackson decides to show us the left one. And if all eyes (and cameras) are on her chest, Jackson, 38, responds defiantly by refusing to cloak her breasts in a modest turtleneck. The cleavage is her way of saying 'fuck you.'\" In 2006, during an interview on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", Jackson upheld her claim that the Super Bowl scandal was an accident.\n\nImmediately following the incident Timberlake jokingly dismissed it, telling the inquisitive press: \"[Jackson and I] love giving you all something to talk about.\" His attitude quickly changed as the scandal grew into a serious controversy. \"People Magazine\" stated Timberlake was referred to as \"the Teflon man\" at the 46th Annual Grammy Awards because the incident did not affect him as it did with Jackson. In a 2006 interview with MTV, Timberlake said that compared to the huge backlash Jackson suffered, he himself received only about 10% of the blame; and he accused American society of being both \"harsher on women\" and \"unfairly harsh on ethnic people\". Prior to plans for the Super Bowl performance, Jackson and Timberlake had discussed potentially recording a duet for Jackson's \"Damita Jo\" album, as well as a rumored collaboration for a Quincy Jones album, though neither came to fruition. In November 2013, Timberlake performed a cover of Jackson's \"Let's Wait Awhile\" on \"The 20/20 Experience World Tour\" before transitioning into his song \"Until the End of Time\", which was regarded as a sign of affection or apology to Jackson.\n\nMedia commentators stated Jackson was treated too harshly by the media and public, while Timberlake's career was not affected much by the incident. Shannon L. Holland in \"Women's Studies in Communication\" argued that the media reaction after the incident focused disproportionately on Jackson, \"represent[ing] her as a contemporary Jezebel in that her racial and gendered Otherness was often juxtaposed with the 'normalcy' of Timberlake's white masculinity. That is, she emerged in a public discourse as the primary (if not sole) instigator of the lewd act, a scheming seductress who manipulated Timberlake for her own economic gain.\" In 2014, former FCC chairman Michael Powell, who had enforced fines on the conglomerates involved with the broadcast following the incident, stated: \"I personally thought that was really unfair. It all turned into being about her. In reality, if you slow the thing down, it's Justin ripping off her breastplate.\" Rob Sheffield of \"Rolling Stone\" stated \"Justin isn't exactly Mr. Loyalty -- he totally left Janet Jackson to take the heat after the Super Bowl.'\" E! Online also commented \"Timberlake wasted no time placing the bulk of the blame for the incident on Jackson. And, of course, the woman takes the blame even though the man stripped her. Pathetically typical.\" A reporter for VH1 said \"JT still gets a side eye for leaving her out to dry.\"\n\nOne observer claimed \"Despite her 'wardrobe malfunction' – for which we think Justin Timberlake wasn't punished nearly as severely for – Janet put on a pretty amazing show.\" \"The New York Times\" noted \"[a]fter her right breast upstaged the Super Bowl, she was criticized by the first lady, vilified by media executives and abandoned by her co-conspirator, Justin Timberlake; less excitable commentators suggested she was merely a shrewd publicity-stunt woman with a new album to promote.\" Jackson's parents, Joe and Katherine Jackson, also expressed concern that Timberlake did not stand by Janet following the incident, commenting, \"What I didn't like is there wasn't one person on that stage, there were two people. After a while, there was only Janet Jackson. That's all there was. Janet Jackson,\" adding \"Janet don't pull that thing open herself. He did it. We were surprised that they didn't say anything to Justin about it.\"\n\nTimberlake would eventually be invited back to the Super Bowl halftime show when he was named headlining act for the Super Bowl LII halftime show in February 2018. During his performance, Timberlake again sang a portion of \"Rock Your Body,\" but stopped right before reaching the \"I'm gonna have you naked by the end of this song\" lyric, saying \"hold up! Stop!\" and smiling. Some commentators interpreted this as a subtle reference to the 2004 incident.\n\nPop singer Katy Perry parodied Jackson's Super Bowl incident in the music video for her single \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" during a scene where Perry's breast is accidentally exposed at a school event. Jackson's incident is also recreated in Eminem's \"Ass Like That\" music video. The controversy and sexual nature surrounding Miley Cyrus' performance of \"We Can't Stop\" and \"Blurred Lines\"/\"Give It 2 U\" with guest artist Robin Thicke at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards was likened to Jackson's performance with Timberlake at the Super Bowl event.\n\nThe term \"wardrobe malfunction\", which was developed to describe Jackson's incident in a public statement and was later added to the Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, has influenced media by frequently being used by various entertainers and publications when describing revealing outfits or, more so, accidental public exposures or nudity. The term's frequent usage following the incident has led to numerous entertainment outlets compiling various celebrity \"wardrobe malfunctions\", with Jackson included in the lists as the most infamous example and originator of the term.\n\nSeveral songs have mentioned Jackson's performance, most notably Drake in Birdman's \"Money to Blow\" and Eminem's \"Ass Like That\", as well as Drake's \"Zone\", Tyga's \"Tyga Montana\", 50 Cent's \"Just a Touch\", Kanye West in Mase's \"Be Alright (Welcome Back Remix)\", Tech N9ne's \"Pornographic\" and \"Flash\", T-Pain's \"Therapy\", Chamillionaire's \"Talking That Talk\", and Common in Jadakiss's \"Why? (Remix) and in Lil Wayne's \"Grindin\"\".\n\nJustin Timberlake referenced the incident when ripping off part of Kristen Wiig's outfit during an appearance on \"Saturday Night Live\" in 2009. The \"Family Guy\" episode \"PTV\" was written as a parody of the FCC's strict measures and regulations following Jackson's Super Bowl halftime show performance controversy. A scene from the episode involving the fictional portrayal of an extreme reaction to actor David Hyde Pierce having a wardrobe malfunction at the Emmy Awards was also a recreation and reference to the incident. Jackson's performance is again referenced in a brief scene where Peter Griffin is dressed in Jackson's Super Bowl outfit and has his breast exposed by Justin Timberlake during the musical number \"The Freaking FCC\". The song itself was introduced when Lois called the FCC in response to a PTV show called \"The Side Boob Hour.\" The episode received Primetime Emmy Award and Annie Award nominations for its subject matter. Jackson's performance also inspired the \"South Park\" episode \"Good Times with Weapons\". In the episode, the show's creators draw attention to the media and public's unnecessary reaction to Jackson's brief exposure while disregarding or accepting extreme acts of violence during a scene where the public is outraged when Eric Cartman is seen naked and having a \"wardrobe malfunction\" on stage, while character Butters Stotch is ignored although he is bleeding and severely injured. Several game shows have also mentioned Jackson's performance.\n\nSeveral presenters at award shows have referenced the incident, including Anna Nicole Smith at the first annual MTV Australia Video Music Awards, Dave Chappelle at the MTV Video Music Awards, and singer Alanis Morissette at the Juno Awards, commenting, \"It's disturbing and curious to me to see what came of that. We're all sexual beings, and if we don't let it out organically, we repress ourselves. If we repress anger, it turns to depression. If we repress our sexuality, it turns to pornography and rape. To think that the country was in an uproar because of a nipple.\" Comedian Russell Brand referenced the incident when hosting the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards, saying \"I can almost guarantee a Janet Jackson-style Super Bowl nip slip.\"\n\nThe Super Bowl XXXVIII incident is considered to be the most controversial television and media event to occur within popular culture, and Jackson was regarded as the world's \"most controversial musician\" who was \"changing the cultural landscape\" due to the incident's massive effect on censorship and broadcasting in television and entertainment. The performance incident made \"Janet Jackson\" the most searched term, event and image in Internet history. Jackson was later listed in the 2007 edition of \"Guinness World Records\" as \"Most Searched in Internet History\" and the \"Most Searched for News Item\". It also broke the record for \"most searched event over one day\". 'Janet Jackson' also became the most searched term and person for 2004 and also of the following year. It also set a record for being the most watched, recorded and replayed moment on TiVo. A company representative stated \"The audience measurement guys have never seen anything like it. The audience reaction charts looked like an electrocardiogram.\" Monte Burke of \"Forbes\" magazine reported, \"[t]he fleeting moment enticed an estimated 35,000 new [TiVo] subscribers to sign up.\" Janet's Super Bowl halftime incident also coined the phrase \"wardrobe malfunction\", which was later officially added to the Webster's English Dictionary in 2008. In the immediate aftermath of the incident, \"Entertainment Weekly\" stated \"Radio stations rushed to add Jackson's new single, \"Just a Little While\" to playlists on Monday following the incident [...] And \"USA Today\" reports that jewelry stores and piercing studios are seeing increased customer interest in silver sunburst-shaped nipple shields.\"\n\nYouTube co-founder Jawed Karim revealed that his frustration at not being able to easily find a video clip of the incident provided the inspiration for the creation of YouTube, and later of Vevo. The launch of Facebook commenced three days following the incident, in a potential attempt to capitalize on its publicity through social networking.\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" stated Jackson's Super Bowl performance \"is far and away the most famous moment in the history of the Super Bowl halftime show\". \"PopCrush\" called the performance \"one of the most shocking moments in pop culture\" as well as a \"totally unexpected and unforgettable moment\". \"Gawker\" ranked the performance among the most recent of the \"10 Shows that Advanced Sex on Television\", commenting the set \"had all the elements of a huge story\" and \"within seconds the world searched furtively for pictures\", concluding \"it remains so ubiquitous, it's impossible to look at a starburst nipple shield without thinking \"Janet Jackson\"\". \"E! Online\" ranked it among the top ten most shocking celebrity moments of the prior two decades. A study of television's most impactful moments of the last 50 years conducted by Sony Electronics and the Nielsen Television Research Company ranked Jackson's Super Bowl performance at #26. The incident was the only Super Bowl event on the list and the highest music and entertainment event aside from the death of Whitney Houston. TV Guide Network ranked it at #2 in a 2010 special listing the \"25 Biggest TV Blunders\". \"Complex\" stated \"It's the Citizen Kane of televised nip-slips – so unexpected, and on such a large stage, that nothing else will ever come close. If Beyoncé were to whip out both breasts and put on a puppet show with them when she performs this year in New Orleans, it would rate as just the second most shocking Super Boob display. Janet's strangely ornamented right nipple is a living legend, and so is Justin Timberlake's terrified reaction.\" Music channel Fuse listed it as the most controversial Super Bowl halftime show, saying the \"revealing performance remains (and will forever remain) the craziest thing to ever happen at a halftime show. Almost immediately after the incident, the FCC received a flood of complaints from parents who just wanted their children to enjoy a nice, wholesome three hours of grown men inflicting damaging and long-lasting pain on each other for sport. Halftime shows would never be the same.\" Patrick Gipson of \"Bleacher Report\" ranked it as #1 in its list of the most \"Jaw Dropping Moments of the Last Decade\", stating Janet \"changed the landscape of live television forever\". Gipson explained \"It prompted a million mothers to cover their childrens' eyes, fathers and sons to jump out of their seats in shock and numerous sanctions by the Federal Communications Commission, including a US$550,000 fine against CBS. Talk about a halftime show that will be hard to top.\" The incident was also declared \"the most memorable Super Bowl halftime show in history\", as well as \"the most controversial\", adding \"you can't talk about this halftime show, or any subsequent halftime show from here to eternity, without mentioning the wardrobe malfunction\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "747345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=747345", "title": "Tanzim", "text": "Tanzim\n\nTanzim ( \"\", \"Organization\") is a militant faction of the Palestinian Fatah movement.\n\nThe Tanzim militia, founded in 1995 by Yasser Arafat and other Fatah leaders to counter Palestinian Islamism, is widely considered to be an armed offshoot of Fatah with its own leadership structure. The acknowledged head of the Tanzim is Marwan Barghouti, who is as of 2017, serving five consecutive life sentences in Israel for murder, and, according to some accounts, has a substantial following among the rejectionist camp which opposes the Interim Agreement (also called Oslo II or Taba) signed on 28 September 1995 with Israel.\n\nThe Tanzim is a grass roots organization that operates at the community level. By taking a hardline position against Israel, it has helped siphon Palestinian support from the Islamist groups to the Palestinian Authority and PLO leadership.\n\nTanzim came to prominence in the street fighting which marked the beginning of the second Palestinian Intifada. Its members tend to be younger than those of other Fatah factions, often having grown up in the post-Oslo era. Many Tanzim members have joined the al-Shaid Yasser Arafat Brigades (formerly the \"al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades\"). Tanzim has also recruited female suicide bombers, including Andaleeb Takatka, a 20-year-old Bethlehem woman who detonated an explosive belt at a Jerusalem bus stop in April 2002, killing six Israeli civilians, and injuring sixty. Marwan Barghouti, widely described as heading Tanzim, explicitly condemned terror attacks within Israel, writing \"While I, and the Fatah movement to which I belong, strongly oppose attacks and the targeting of civilians inside Israel, our future neighbor, I reserve the right to protect myself, to resist the Israeli occupation of my country and to fight for my freedom.\"\n\nOn February 15, 2015 the Israeli army arrested Jamal Abu Lel, charging that he was \"the head of\" the Tanzim \"terrorist organization,\" running it from the Qalandiya refugee camp while carrying an Israeli permanent resident identity card due to his residing in Kfar Aqab, on the other side of the Jerusalem Airport from Qalandiya. Abu Lel is accused by the Shin Bet of funding and directing terrorist and shooting attacks against Israelis.\n\nFatah Tanzim have conducted a number of attacks against Israeli civilians and military, including against women and children. Below is a partial list of terrorist attacks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20031830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20031830", "title": "The Blood Confession", "text": "The Blood Confession\n\nThe Blood Confession is a 2006 historical fiction novel written by Alisa M. Libby. The novel is a revisionist telling of the legend of Countess Elizabeth Báthory, with elements of the fairy tale Snow White.\n\nThe book follows the character of Countess Erzebet, a young noblewoman held prisoner while being charged with murder. As the book unfolds, Erzebet tells her life's story, from her ill-omened birth to the crimes she's charged with.\n\n\"The Blood Confession\" received a positive review from Strange Horizons, stating that while \"first half of the book does wander... it is in its modern connotations that Libby's book really soars and disturbs\". Kirkus Reviews praised \"Libby’s combination of history, fairy tales and the Bible\" but stated that it was \"a conceptually interesting but sluggishly paced gothic horror\". The Bulletin of the Center for Children's Books wrote that the book was \"not for the faint of heart\" and that \"this first person narrative doesn’t leave out any of the gory details.\" The School Library Journal praised the book's characterizations while stating that the book's \"depiction of Erzebet's descent into madness is overly lengthy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50553526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50553526", "title": "Tree Day", "text": "Tree Day\n\nTree Day has been started in the Indian city of Hyderabad on 15 May 2016 to protest against the government's plans to cut thousands of trees around the KBR National Park. The Government of Telangana has proposed a Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) under which the entire KBR Park periphery also called the KBR Park Eco-Sensitive Zone will be affected. This will lead to a significant impact on the flora and fauna of the park that houses more than 600 species of plants, hundreds of species of animals and birds. Tree Day was organized by a group called \"Hyderabad Rising\", a group of non-partisan, non-political nature lovers who came together for a small protest rally in the last week of April. This gradually started taking shape of a movement, with hundreds to thousands of resident citizens of Hyderabad joining.\n\nTree Day, a term inspired by Mothers Day, Teachers Day and Father's day was coined by Hyderabad Rising. Tree Day was organized with the objective of bonding with the trees by hugging them, watering them, tying the sacred Indian thread on them and taking selfies with them. The event saw participation from runners, walkers, yoga enthusiasts, tree lovers, nature lovers, environmental conservationists, city planners and transport consultants. All of them have questioned the Government's move to cut so many trees for road widening and flyovers, when planners such as Peter J. Park have asserted that flyovers do not solve traffic problems. The participants urged the government to adopt sustainable development policies.\n\nEnvironmentalist Prof. Purushottam Reddy noted that \"The People of Hyderabad have set a precedent and made history by standing up for the trees in the city and have also introduced a - Tree Day - which people across the country can now celebrate every year\".\n"}
{"id": "2701950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2701950", "title": "Waffle Crisp", "text": "Waffle Crisp\n\nWaffle Crisp was a breakfast cereal made by Post Foods, which contained maple syrup-flavored corn cereal bits in a waffle shape. It was first launched in 1996. In 2013, Post introduced a lower-priced version of the cereal, \"Waffle Crunch,\" as part of their Good MOREnings line of budget cereals. According to customer service at Post Foods, Waffle Crisp was discontinued in August of 2018.\n\nThe original Waffle Crisp mascots were a group of elderly women, dubbed \"grannies\", who purportedly cooked each individual piece as if it were an actual, miniature-sized waffle. Most of the commercials for Waffle Crisp from the late 1990s featured preteen kids attempting to break into the (surprisingly high-tech) factory to steal the cereal's secret recipe or, at the very least, get a large quantity of Waffle Crisp for themselves (in other words, steal one box of this cereal).\n\nThe next mascot was an anthropomorphic waffle with red tennis shoes dubbed \"Waffle Boy\". He defends the cereal against a cartoon villain known as Professor Burnt Toast.\n\nWaffle Crisp appeared in an episode of the television sitcom, \"Friends\", where the main character, Joey, is seen reading a box while sitting in his lazy boy.\n\nPostopia.com, Post's official website for children, created a Waffle Boy-themed video game called \"Waffle Boy's Extreme Bike Mountain Adventure\". It takes place in the jungle where Professor Burnt Toast has stolen the Precious Waffle Crisp, and Waffle Boy goes to retrieve it. A sequel game was made, entitled \"Waffle Boy's Jungle Adventure\". In this game, Professor Burnt Toast has created a machine that will destroy it all.\n\nHowever, Waffle Boy was later replaced in the video game series by a dinosaur named \"Bronk\", and its plot involves him protecting the secret existence of a fictional race of dinosaurs dubbed as \"platosaurs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1809016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1809016", "title": "Walk on the Wild Side (Lou Reed song)", "text": "Walk on the Wild Side (Lou Reed song)\n\n\"Walk on the Wild Side\" is a song by Lou Reed from his second solo album, \"Transformer\" (1972). It was produced by David Bowie and Mick Ronson, and released as a double A-side with \"Perfect Day\". The song received wide radio coverage, despite its touching on taboo topics such as transsexual people, drugs, male prostitution, and oral sex. In the United States, RCA released the single using an edited version of the song without the reference to oral sex. In 2010, Rolling Stone ranked it at number 223 in its list of the 500 greatest songs of all time.\n\nThe lyrics, describing a series of individuals and their journeys to New York City, refer to several of the regular \"superstars\" at Andy Warhol's New York studio, the Factory, namely Holly Woodlawn, Candy Darling, Joe Dallesandro, Jackie Curtis and Joe Campbell (referred to in the song by his nickname \"Sugar Plum Fairy\"). Candy Darling was also the subject of Reed's earlier song for The Velvet Underground, \"Candy Says\".\n\nTwo decades after the song's release, Reed told interviewer David Fricke, \"I know my obituary has already been written. And it starts out, \"Doot, di-doot, di-doot...\"\"\n\nThe baritone saxophone solo played over the fadeout of the song is performed by Ronnie Ross, who had taught David Bowie to play the saxophone during Bowie's childhood.\n\nThe backing vocals are sung by Thunderthighs, a vocal group that included Dari Lalou, Karen Friedman, and Casey Synge.\n\nThe upright bass and bass guitar are both played by Herbie Flowers who was paid a £17 flat fee ().\n\nLike many of Reed's songs, \"Walk on the Wild Side\" is based on a plagal cadence, alternating from C to F. The F is played as a sixth chord. The pre-chorus introduces the major second, D Major, although in some live performances this was changed to D minor, resulting in a completely diatonic song.\n\nThe song is also noted for its twin interlocking bass lines played by Herbie Flowers on double bass and overdubbed on a stacked knob 1960 fretless Fender Jazz Bass. In an interview on BBC Radio 4 (\"Playing Second Fiddle\", aired July 2005), Flowers claimed that the reason he came up with the twin bass line was that as a session musician he would be paid double for playing two instruments on the same track, thus likely totalling his pay to £34 ().\n\nIn the 2001 documentary \"Classic Albums: Lou Reed: Transformer\", Reed says that it was Nelson Algren's 1956 novel, \"A Walk on the Wild Side\" (itself titled after the 1952 song \"The Wild Side of Life\"), that was the launching point for the song, even though, as it grew, the song became inhabited by characters from his own life. As with several other Reed songs from the 1970s, the title may also be an allusion to an earlier song, in this case Mack David and Elmer Bernstein's song of the same name, the Academy Award-nominated title song of the 1962 film based on Algren's novel. During his performance of the song on his 1978 \"\" album, Reed humorously explains the song's development from a request that he write the music for the never-completed musical version of Algren's novel.\n\nEach verse refers to one of the \"superstars\" at Andy Warhol's New York studio, The Factory.\n\nThe lyrics were groundbreaking and risqué for their time, telling stories not usually told in rock songs up to then, and containing references to prostitution, transsexuals, and oral sex. \"I always thought it would be kinda fun to introduce people to characters they maybe hadn't met before, or hadn't wanted to meet,\" Reed said. The original release was a worldwide hit. In 2010, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine ranked it as the 223rd greatest song of all time.\n\nIn the United States, RCA released the single using an edited version of the song without the reference to oral sex. In the UK, the reference has sometimes slipped past the censors, who were apparently unfamiliar with the term \"giving head\". The term \"colored girls\" was also an issue in the US; RCA provided radio stations with a version in which it was edited out.\n\nThe single peaked at #16 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles charts in early 1973. After the announcement of Reed's death in October 2013, both the song and the \"Transformer\" album re-charted via iTunes.\n\n"}
{"id": "10519921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10519921", "title": "Where the Girls Are (TV program)", "text": "Where the Girls Are (TV program)\n\nWhere the Girls Are was a music and comedy special that aired on NBC in 1968.\n\nNoel Harrison, fresh from his role in the NBC series \"Girl From U.N.C.L.E.\", hosted the hour-long special. Comic skits were performed by Professor Irwin Corey and Don Adams, who was starring in the NBC series Get Smart.\n\nMusical numbers were performed by The Association, Barbara McNair, Cher and The Byrds. The \"Close-Up\" for the program in the April 20–26, 1968 \"TV Guide\" also notes: \"The goings-on include antic camerawork and a bevy of mini-clad beauties.\"\n\nCelanese Arnel was a major sponsor.\n\nThe special was broadcast on Tuesday, April 23, 1968. It pre-empted \"The Jerry Lewis Show\" on NBC's network schedule.\n\n"}
