{"id": "39049990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39049990", "title": "Acculturation Model", "text": "Acculturation Model\n\nIn second-language acquisition, the Acculturation Model is a theory proposed by John Schumann to describe the acquisition process of a second language (L2) by members of ethnic minorities that typically include immigrants, migrant workers, or the children of such groups. This acquisition process takes place in natural contexts of majority language setting. The main suggestion of the theory is that the acquisition of a second language is directly linked to the acculturation process, and learners’ success is determined by the extent to which they can orient themselves to the target language culture.\n\nThe acculturation model came into light with Schumann’s study of six non-English learners where one learner named Alberto, unlike the other five, had little progress in the acquisition process of English.\n\nThe process of acculturation was defined by Brown as \"the process of being adapted to a new culture\" which involves a new orientation of thinking and feeling on the part of an L2 learner. According to Brown, as culture is an integral part of a human being, the process of acculturation takes a deeper turn when the issue of language is brought on the scene. Schumann based his Acculturation Model on two sets of factors: social and psychological. Schumann asserts that the degree to which the second-language learners acculturate themselves towards the culture of target-language (TL) group generally depends on social and psychological factors; and these two sorts of factors will determine respectively the level of \"social distance\" and \"psychological distance\" an L2 learner is having in course of his learning the target-language. Social distance, as Ellis notes, concerns the extent to which individual learners can identify themselves with members of TL group and, thereby, can achieve contact with them. Psychological distance is the extent to which individual learners are at ease with their target-language learning task. Schumann identifies eight factors that influence social distance: social dominance, integration pattern, enclosure, cohesiveness, size factor, cultural congruence, attitude factor, and intended length of residence. He also identifies three factors that influence psychological distance: motivation, attitude, and culture shock. Schumann later sought to extend the acculturation model by assessing contemporary cognitive models for second language acquisition, including McLaughlin’s cognitive theory, Hatch and Hawkins’ experiential approach, Bialystok and Ryan’s model of knowledge and control dimensions, Anderson’s active control of thought framework, and Gasser's connectionist lexical memory framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18836975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18836975", "title": "Always Becoming", "text": "Always Becoming\n\nAlways Becoming is an artwork created in 2007 by Nora Naranjo-Morse (born 1953), a Native American Potter and poet. She currently resides in Española, New Mexico, just north of Santa Fe and is a member of the Santa Clara Pueblo.\n\nThe sculpture consists of five separate sculptures, that make up a family.\n\nGrounded in figures from Santa Clara Pueblo oral tradition the sculptures are named:\n\nThe sculptures were built in-situ over the summer of 2007, Nora Naranjo-Morse worked with her niece Athena Swentzell Steen and her husband Bill Steen who are experts at building structures with natural material, and the family of Don Juan Morales (Tepehuan) from the Mexican state of Durango, as well as many volunteers including museum staff and visitors.\n\nThe Sculptures are made entirely of natural materials: dirt, sand, straw, clay, stone, black locust wood, bamboo, grass, and yam vines. These natural elements were selected to take on a life of their own and thus affect the sculptures over time. In this way the materials ensure the forms are 'always becoming'.\n\nThe five sculptures range in size from seven and a half to sixteen feet tall.\n\nOn May 24, 2006, the National Museum of the American Indian announced that Naranjo-Morse had won its outdoor sculpture design competition. \"Always Becoming\" was selected unanimously from more than 55 entries submitted by Native artists from throughout the Western Hemisphere.\n\nDuring the summer of 2007, on the grounds of the National Museum of the American Indian, Washington, DC, Naranjo-Morse built a family of clay sculptures. The commissioned work is located on the 'Native landscape' at the museum's south entrance on Maryland Avenue S.W. near 4th Street and Independence Avenue S.W., Washington, D.C.\n\nA public dedication, officially opening these public works of art, took place on September 1, 2007.\n\nThe sculptures are intended to disintegrate over time, and the lives of sculptures from the initial idea through the continued process of stewardship are being documented by Filmmaker Dax Thomas (Laguna/Acoma). As the sculptures disintegrate the films of their life will form a more permanent record of their existence and are therefore an essential part of the artistic process, and the work of art itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38400432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38400432", "title": "Anakalang", "text": "Anakalang\n\nAnakalang is a society and a megalithic site on the island of Sumba, in eastern Indonesia. It is noted for its quadrangular adzes and numerous megalithic tombs. The West Sumba island's best megalithic tombs are located here. They are large and well decorated and contain unusual carvings. Anakalang is the home of the \"Purung Takadonga Ratu\", an important Queen.\n\nAnakalang is situated in a valley, the megalithic tombs spread over many villages, in the district of Anakalang. This valley is situated to the east of Waikabubak. Anakalang is from Waikabubak and is close to the main road to Waingapu; buses arrive at regular intervals. The district has the greatest concentration of megalithic tombs in Sumba. At Pasunga's main road, there is one of the largest tombs in Sumba.\n\nThere is debate on the exact age of the site; radiocarbon dating has not been done to affirm this categorization. The stone schist grave with three adzes in it is inferred to be post-neolithic though no iron objects were found. The quadrangular adzes found in a small cist do not exhibit characteristics of the Neolithic age and may be post-neolithic. The tradition of building megalithic tombs has continued to the present age in West Sumba. Anakalang is said to be one of the few locations where the social practices and the traditional methods followed to build megaliths can still be seen. In 1880, Umbu Dongu Ubini Mesa became the first \"raja\" of Anakalang. In 1927, Umbu Sappy Pateduk succeeded to the title. Umbu Remu Samapati was the third \"raja\", and his brother-in-law, Umbu Sulung Ibilona, succeeded him.\n\nThe megalithic grave tomb in the village of Kampung has a stone slab erected vertically. Its carved images date to 1926, taking six months to complete. The burial ceremony involved sacrifice of 150 buffaloes, and the horns of these are kept in a local house. Another tomb is on the same road about away at Koboduk village. This tomb is made of concrete and tiles. It is reported to be the largest tomb in Samba. Another tomb, chiseled out of a single rock, took six years to create and is known as the Umba Saola tomb. It is and in thickness, weighing 70 tons. It was pulled from the hill slope where it was carved over a distance of to the grave site in the Anakalang town. At the burial location there are also other tombs at the eastern side. These are upright slabs with carvings of the local king and queen with motifs of buffaloes and cockerels. Close to this tomb, the Raja’s son lives with his wife and narrates the story to visitors.\n\nLinguistically, Anakalang belongs to East Sumba, although politically and geographically it is situated within the \"kabupaten\" of West Sumba. The women are mainly weavers, making baskets and mats, while the men are involved in string twining etc. Ornaments are taken care of and hidden away for ancestors.\n"}
{"id": "19043342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19043342", "title": "Center for Contemporary Arab Studies", "text": "Center for Contemporary Arab Studies\n\nThe Center for Contemporary Arab Studies at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., United States is a notable academic center \"distinguished by its emphasis on study of the contemporary Arab world and its rigorous Arabic language training.\" Part of the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, CCAS was founded in 1975 and noted scholars Hanna Batatu and Hisham Sharabi were part of its founding. Previous directors of the CCAS have included Michael C. Hudson, Barbara Stowasser, and Ibrahim Ibrahim. The current director is Rochelle Davis.\n\nCCAS offers an MA degree in Arab Studies as well as certificates in Arab Studies to undergraduates and graduate students. CCAS' MA program also has joint degrees with the Law School. MA in Arab Studies students can also get certificates in a number of other programs including International Business Diplomacy and Refugee and Humanitarian Emergencies.\n\nThe Center is funded by the university, by grants, and by private donors. Since 1997, CCAS has served as the core of Georgetown University's National Resource Center on the Middle East and North Africa, funded by a Title VI grant from the US Department of Education. In addition, the Center hosts endowed chairs from Oman, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates, along with a chair in Human Development. A number of other private donors support scholarships for students and public lectures and symposium.\n\n"}
{"id": "11791934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11791934", "title": "Conservation and restoration of illuminated manuscripts", "text": "Conservation and restoration of illuminated manuscripts\n\nPreserving parchment becomes more difficult when pigments, inks, and illumination are added into the equation. Pigments do not dye parchment; instead, they lie on the surface of the parchment and so are rather fragile. The goal of restoring illuminated manuscripts should be to make them resilient to damage while altering them as little as possible. Each individual manuscript, and even each individual page, must be considered as a separate object with different aspects that must be taken into consideration. This in turn will help determine the best course of preservation or conservation treatment.\n\nOne of the best ways to become familiar with the variety of issues caused by various materials is to learn about how such manuscripts were made in the past and how they were subsequently treated in later years.\n\nThe best distinction between inks and pigments is that ink is a colored liquid while pigments are colored particles suspended in a liquid. Areas colored by pigments usually have multiple layers of pigments and other mediums. The most important aspect of preserving pigments and inks is to identify their composition. Some techniques are not suitable for certain pigments and will do further harm.\n\n\nIdentifying specific pigments is no easy task. Descriptions may be wrong or misleading and choosing the wrong treatment may cause irreversible damage.\n\nThere are two different ways to identify pigments: invasive and non-invasive.\n\nThese tests alter the manuscript in some way, usually by removing some pigment to test a sample. They are generally reliable but results are not always clear.\n\n\nThese tests do not alter the manuscript and are much better for conservation purposes than the invasive methods of identification. Some methods include:\n\n\n\nRaman spectroscopy analyzes the molecular vibrations of the pigments and uses this data to map out its chemical makeup. This works on the notion that every substance interacts with radiation in different ways, and these differing ways if measured can help identify the substance without having to take a sample. Unlike other non-invasive identification techniques the results of Raman spectroscopy are much more certain. It is even possible to analyze a pigment beneath a glaze or other treatment.\n\nParchment is hygroscopic. As such, environmental conditions such as humidity must be kept under control. Pigments add another layer to the problem, forcing a preservationist to fit environmental conditions to two different (and possibly conflicting) sets of ideal limits.\n\nProblems can occur when parchment is exposed to high humidity for a long period of time. For example, collagen in the pages could dissolve and stick together.\n\nThese problems are further compounded by the fact that pigments do not dye parchment; instead, they lie on the surface of the parchment and so are rather fragile. Pressing an illuminated manuscript pushes the pigment down, altering the image itself and likely causing damage (such as a relief effect to the other side of the page) so it is very important to not put any pressure upon images on parchment, especially when it is wet. This fact also has to be taken into account when cleaning dirt from the image and when encapsulating or framing illuminated parchment for an exhibition. There must be enough room between the image and the protective surface (such as Perspex) that the image will not be subject to rubbing if the parchment should expand with rising humidity.\n\nConsolidation is a process that can either strengthen the bond between pigment and parchment or add protection to pigments and other finishes from aqueous treatments. Strengthening the bond between pigments and parchment help prevent the pigments from flaking and pulling away. The challenge comes with achieving the best consolidation results while altering the object as little as possible. The material used for consolidation should be appropriate for the pigments, the parchment, and any other aspects that may be affected by the application.\n\nSoluble nylon was used until the mid-1970s when concerns over the material’s stability emerged. Parchment size was then favored until the mid-1990s when leaf gelatin gained popularity. This is not to say that gelatin is always the best consolidant to use; no consolidation technique should be used without first considering the pigments and other materials involved, though. For example, gelatin causes white lead to become friable. This problem is compounded by the flexible nature of parchment. One solution to this particular problem is to use some form of a cellulose ether such as methylcellulose, instead of gelatin. Again, this is not necessarily the right choice for every situation.\n\nThere are a few basic requirements for any consolidation agent:\n\nOne device recently used in consolidation techniques is the ultrasonic mister. Created in 1991 by Stefan Michalski, this device lends itself well to consolidating materials that react badly with liquids. Gelatin is the preferred consolidant.\n\nThe ultrasonic mister is usually used in conjunction with a paper suction table to direct the mist at the media and prevent distortion. This is not the best treatment for illuminated manuscripts that have printing on both sides, though. In this case it is better to forgo the suction table and instead use the lowest setting on the mister and to monitor the process carefully.\n\nProblems may arise if condensed mist falls onto the parchment from the nozzle so it is advisable that the device be placed on the floor or a similarly low level to coax mist to drain back into the mister instead of falling upon the parchment.\n\nTraditional methods of removing creases and flattening parchment through humidifying have been detrimental to the state of any pigments, causing them to come off the parchment slightly. This is because the parchment and pigments take on and give off moisture at different rates, causing them to expand and contract at varying rates and thus loosening the pigment from the surface. This results in flaking, cupping, and cracking.\n\nThe question becomes whether flattening creased parchment to some extent will cause more or less damage to the image than would be caused by not removing the crease. Sometimes not flattening the parchment in some respect will lead to the further degradation of an image. In these cases some form of hydration is necessary. Due to the nature of pigments, though, it is desirable to avoid direct contact with liquid water. This can be accomplished with Gore-Tex.\n\nGore-Tex now has controllable pore size and can block out many liquids, including liquid water and many conservation chemicals. Water vapor can still pass through the pores, though, so it is possible to hydrate the parchment and remove a crease without introducing liquid water to the pigmented image. This can be achieved by sandwiching a manuscript in Gore-Tex in varying ways to achieve the desired results.\n\nRepairing a tear in a parchment with images or text on it is more of a challenge than mending a piece of parchment that does not have any such issues. Care must be taken to not cover up or obscure in any way the image or the text. Materials such as Goldbeater's skin can be made transparent enough to do this but great care still needs to be taken.\n\nThe ethics of illuminated manuscript preservation involve the potential for adversely altering the source material during the course of the repair work. In order to ensure the integrity of the manuscript, great care must be taken during any preservation activity. Risk assessments should be made to determine the potential impact of preservation work on the manuscript, and weigh that against the potential benefits of the restoration work itself.\n\nThe Illuminated Book: Conserving an Art Form\n\nThe term illuminated manuscript comes from two sources, both of which originated in Medieval Latin. The first is manuscriptus, a combination of manu ‘by hand’ and scriptus ‘written’. The second is the Latin word illuminare, which translates to ‘adorned’. It is this second term that immediately catches attention, letting readers know that this particular manuscript is special, illuminated or ‘adorned.’ An illuminated manuscript is a book, usually religious in nature, that has been intricately decorated with paints, inks, and metal leaf such as gold and silver. This can include full page illustrations, intricate initials at the beginning of paragraphs and chapters, and embellishment to particularly important areas of text. A surprising number of these books have survived the years to exist in the modern era; mostly thanks to their value and, in many cases, religious significance. Nonetheless, the very embellishments that allowed these books to survive are the reason that today’s conservators find illuminated manuscripts more challenging to maintain than their plain counterparts. This is important not just to conservators, but to the historians who rely on them to trace the economic trends and artistic evolution in a time that is commonly referred to as the Dark Ages, or more properly known as the Migration Period (476–800 C.E.). Thousands of illuminated manuscripts have survived the ages, yet many are slowly being lost today because they are not being properly conserved. Illuminated manuscripts are some of the hardest books to conserve, but every effort must be made to preserve them not only for their own beauty and value but for their historical significance as some of the only surviving written records of an era.\n\nPart of the complexity of illuminated manuscripts lies in their historical context. An illuminated manuscript is, in simple terms, a decorated book. They usually contain both painted illustrations, embellished text, and illumination with gold and other precious metals. With the advent and propagation of Christianity in medieval Europe, illustrated books rapidly became a way to convey religious teachings in a time when most of the population was illiterate. Because of this purpose, most of the illuminated manuscripts to have survived the ages are religious in nature. In most cases, rich patrons or churches would commission the creation of their own copies of various religious scriptures. These were most commonly complete copies of the Bible or a subsection, such as individual books of the Old Testament, collections of 150 psalms, or collections of the first four books of the New Testament (Anderson 9). In later cases, when more people could read, books of hours were also widely called for. All of these books were created by either nuns or monks, usually in a scriptorium connected to their church or abbey. Outside of the church, there were some examples of secular texts being illuminated. Astronomical treatises and copies of classical writers were some of the first examples, emerging as the trend of owning personal copies of religious texts spread among the wealthy. Later, histories and chronicles became more popular, coinciding with the gradual spread of knowledge and the founding of universities throughout Europe in the latter part of the Middle Ages (Anderson 13). These books were still most often produced by church scribes and illuminators; however, they were commissioned by private citizens or universities rather than the church. Without the illuminated manuscripts historians have to study today, much of this information about the gradual return of wealth and learning in the Migration Period would be difficult or even impossible to accurately trace and date.\nThere were many reasons for the creation of illuminated manuscripts, and these varied with each commission. However, the most common were either for teaching purposes or as shows of wealth. Because most common people were illiterate, they could only relate to stories of church doctrine through pictures rather than reading the words. Illustrating religious texts allowed people to see the stories that church leaders read to them, and to create a personal connection outside of the oral tradition. In this instance, illuminated manuscripts served the same purpose as stained glass windows in churches. They allowed the faithful to see the stories of their faith, lending them substance that might be absent from the spoken word. They could also serve as reminders of religious faith when a church service was not in progress. The second reason for the creation of illuminated manuscripts was as a show of wealth. In the case of church manuscripts, the books could both tell religious stories and remind the people of the power and wealth of the church. In the case of private commissions, the patron was able to demonstrate their wealth by purchasing lavish volumes for their personal libraries and chapels. This also served to demonstrate their fidelity to and strengthen their ties with the church, whose support and influence with the common people played a major part in keeping the upper class in power. Because all but the very smallest of local churches had at least a plain copy of the bible, the range from completely unadorned manuscripts to the lavish and intricate designs embellished with rich gold leaf seen in the more famous versions of the art are clearly represented. Where each book fell on this range closely reflected the wealth and influence of its owner, whether that was an upper-class individual or a town. While this influence is also represented in buildings and other archeological evidence such as coinage and works of art, the prevalence of illuminated manuscripts from different areas and time periods provides a sort of historical litmus test to the prosperity of the region.\n\nBefore the invention of the printing press, making even the simplest book was a painstaking process. The paper was made by hand, the leather was prepared in tanneries, the binding threads were hand spun, and the inks were ground with a mortar and pestle. Even with all the materials assembled, the book still had to be stitched and glued together, then painstakingly written by hand by a scribe. Even so, hundreds of thousands of books were produced between the transition from papyrus scrolls to codices and the advent of the printing press. The initial transition that sparked this production occurred over time between the first and fifth centuries A.D. The transition from scrolls to codices began from a common tool used by merchants, the wax tablet. These tablets were simple panels covered in wax, which could be written in with a pointed stylus and then wiped clean again for reuse. They were normally kept together by rings passed through holes in their sides (Anderson 17). Once the format of a rectangular codex protected by hard or stiff covers had become a commonly known alternative to the scroll form previously used, it rapidly gained popularity for its durability and versatile applications. Over time, they became the standard form of written information. Gradually the intricate designs of tooled covers and decorated pages evolved to appeal to wealthy clients, and the books became an art form in and of themselves. Of these carefully created books, only about five percent were deemed important enough to be decorated with illustrations and illumination (Anderson 7). \n\nTo understand the challenges conservators face when dealing with these intricately decorated books, it is first necessary to understand how they were made. Bookbinders used some of the same techniques used today to create hand bound books. Sheets were folded in half, so that each one would form two pages. These were then nested one inside the other to create a gathering. These gatherings could include as many pages as the bookbinder chose, however there were usually relatively few to prevent the gathering from becoming too bulky. An alternative method was to fold a very large sheet of paper repeatedly to create many pages, then slit three of the four sides with a knife to create a sheaf of pages (Hamel 39). Many gatherings were sown together though pre-punched holes known as sowing stations. The pattern of sowing stations and the use of the thread was what determined the structure of the binding. Because scribes and artists often needed access to the entire sheets of paper to do their work, books from this time period were often prepared in loose bindings that could be easily undone to free a sheet of paper (Hamel 40). For both illuminated and unadorned books, these loose bindings cause problems for conservators when they have not been properly and firmly bound after the writing and decorating was completed. Entire gatherings of pages can come loose, needing to be carefully re-stitched into their correct locations. Because of the wide variance in materials used in the bindings of books from the era that illuminated manuscripts were made, it is possible to trace some back to specific binderies, meaning that the materials can be analyzed to understand what trade was going on in that area at the time. For example, if a lavish cover was inlayed with lapis lazuli, if would be possible to infer that the bindery was able to source materials from as far east as Afghanistan (Alexander 40). Certain kinds of leather can also be traced back to specific geographical regions, as some breeds of cow and goat were only found in specific areas at this time.\n\nThe pages used in books from this period also pose their own concerns. There were three main materials used for the pages of books in this time period: papyrus, parchment or vellum, and paper (Alexander 35). Papyrus was the primary writing material of the ancient world, and was created by beating stalks of the papyrus reed together until the fibers in the plant formed a tight, almost woven structure. Because it did not provide a stable surface for paint, this sort of paper was very rarely used for illuminated manuscripts. As for the paper most people would recognize today, the first true example was created in China around 105 A.D. using beaten, strained, and dried vegetable fibers such as tree bark. However, this paper was very expensive and generally had to be imported at the time that illuminated manuscripts were being widely made, so it appears less often than the third alternative, parchment (Permanence/Durability of the Book 11). It is worth noting that those manuscripts with paper pages are much harder to conserve, and the acids present in the plant fibers naturally cause it to yellow and break down over time. This process is irreversible, but can be slowed and limited by controlling the temperature, humidity, and light exposure of the paper. Turning to the final option, we reach the most common form of page used in illuminated manuscripts. Parchment and vellum are both made of very fine, prepared and treated animal skins that have been dried in a manner which leaves them flexible. The difference between them is that vellum is usually made with either goat, pig, or calf skin, while parchment is made from sheep skin (Langwell 44). Parchment provides an ideal surface for illumination, and was even placed into books which used other page materials in patches to allow for a good painting or illuminating surface (Alexander 35). This prevalent use of parchment provides some of the historical significance of illuminated manuscripts. The different kinds of hide used can be DNA tested with modern equipment, and often tell historians what area the book is from and sometimes where the hide was sourced from, mapping trade routes and patterns otherwise lost to history. There is one key conservation problem with parchment and vellum that was discovered even while it was being widely used: if is very susceptible to water damage. Not only does it mold quickly in high humidity environments, but early forms of ink that were commonly used on papyrus could simply be washed off without leaving a trace. It is believed that “Iron gall inks were devised to overcome this disadvantage,” however even these inks can be wiped off fairly thoroughly if they are scrubbed (Langwell 43).\n\nThe issue of proper inks used on parchment also carries over to the paints used in the illustrations. This set of problems is truly unique to decorated books, and is the beginning of just what sets them apart as conservation challenges as opposed to their plain counterparts. In particular, the brilliant blue color of paint that is seen in many of the finest examples of the art is a challenge. Made from ground lapis lazuli this was the most expensive color of paint, as it was sourced from far away Afghanistan (Alexander 40). Any book bearing this color would have been especially costly, and helps to map the economic structure of Migration Period Europe through the supply chain used to create it and the person wealthy enough to afford it. Unfortunately, this particularly precious color is also the most difficult for conservators. It is prone to flaking and cupping, a form of contraction which causes the paint to crack and curve outwards in many little flakes, giving the appearance of tiny shingles that have been flipped upside-down. This means that even the slightest friction can catch the raised edges and cause the paint to flake off. It must be carefully consolidated with a nonreactive adhesive, without damaging other surrounding decoration (Clarkson 47). Many other paints used at the time were also poisonous. The compositions of many paints were discovered using Raman spectroscopy, a noninvasive method of analysis that bounces light off of a given pigment and reads back the compositions based on witch wavelengths are absorbed and reflected (De 75). Using this and other spectroscopic methods, it has been determined that the very common red pigment found in these books was created from red lead, or, more dangerously, the highly toxic compound cinnabar. Another variant of this common color was vermillion, created using heated mercury and sulfur. Yellow was often made using poisonous orpiment, or arsenic sulfide, and white was almost invariably created using lead. While there are some organic alternatives, such as yellow made from saffron, it is unknown if even a single illuminated manuscript does not contain toxic materials. These compounds can pose a danger to conservators, researchers, or those putting the books of display if they are aerated and should be carefully consolidated and never abraded. While many other paints and inks were used by the artist decorating the books, these examples convey both the wide ranges of the colors used and the dangers they posed. This added level of difficulty is a good example of what makes illuminated manuscripts harder to deal with than plan books. It is also worth noting that while the paints were a finishing measure for the book the painter did not actually do any designing. An earlier drawling would have set out the pattern and clearly labeled with colors should go where in places that would be covered with paint. These patterns and labels are visible using various imaging techniques. Some scribes also wrote or made small drawings in the margins of the books, often providing historians with a window into the life on the average man in the Migration Period. These little annotations are some of the only surviving records of everyday life from the time commonly known as the Dark Ages. Complaints about long work hours and little drawings of people and monsters can be seen both in the margins and in some cases under the paint of the illustrations. \n\nThe tradition of illustrating texts goes all the way back to the cradle of civilization, evolving through Egypt and the cultures of the Mediterranean. However, it was far less common for books and papers to be embellished with precious metals, and this aspect of illuminated manuscripts adds another facet of difficulty for conservators that is not found elsewhere. In the middle ages, gold was the symbol of royalty, a clear sign of wealth and status. Yet for all of that, it was actually fairly common. Indeed, by the late middle ages the most common use for gold was in coinage (De 65). Because of this, using small quantities of the precious metal in a book was not prohibitively expensive. Gold, and all other metals used for illumination, was hammered into incredibly thin sheets, allowing a tiny amount of gold to cover a large area. This thin sheet was then adhered to the pages using the particular illuminator’s formula of adhesive. This variation in adhesives mean that if any work needs to be done by a conservator, several tests must be undergone to ensure that no modern consolidation or adhesive will react with, damage, or loosen the old glue. While this is an issue for conservators, in rare cases a glue can be traced to a specific bindery, thus placing the book in its correct area and context, making it far more useful to historians. Another challenge for conservators lies in the fact that the gold used in books was not always pure. Alloys of gold can be subject to corrosion, with can cause darkening of the metal, reaction with the adhesives and other paint, and staining of the paper. This is an inherent vice of illuminations done with pure silver as well. Regardless of the care and treatment, silver corrodes and darkens over time. While modern conservators have ways of limiting this though control of humidity, older books have often seen their illumination corrode to the point that to attempt to clean it would simply remove the metal entirely.\n\nConservation in the modern era does not only face issues with the objects themselves. While a corroded book is one issue, how to display that book to the public is another, potentially more complex problem. From a conservator’s point of view, to best protect a book it should be placed in a controlled, dark environment, then swaddled in padding with plenty of circulating air and tightly controlled relative humidity. Once old damage has been repaired, the goal is to keep new damage from occurring. However, most illuminated manuscripts belong to museums and libraries. Moreover, these beautiful works are the pride of the collection in most cases, and any curator will naturally want their most enticing items on display to woo the visiting public. In addition, part of the cultural value of the books is what they can teach us about the missing part of history commonly known as the Dark Ages. Historians will often want to study and run tests on the books in hopes of learning something about the time and place they were made, such as what trade was present. Thus comes one of the great ethical issues in the field of conservation, the problem of preservation versus access. The question most often faced by conservators is how to display a book to the least damage for the longest time. The light that enables visitors to see the books also breaks down the lignin structures in paper pages, fades paints, and embrittles leather. The cradle that holds the book open for viewing may also strain the spine. These are only two of the myriad issues that must be addressed when dealing with these fragile books. Even more arise when tests need to be run or a historian wants to handle a book. Removing a sliver of paint for analysis by a mass spectrometer may reveal information about trade routes, but it also damages the book. Likewise, inspecting the drawings and inscriptions in the margins provides a unique historical window, but a careless historian might touch the page and damage fragile and flaking paint. Not all institutions have the funds to properly care for their collections either. While a few famous examples claim the spotlight in major institutions, small museums, libraries, and religious centers put their own, smaller treasures on display to the public without the expertise of a conservator to aid them.\n\nThe complex challenges of illuminated manuscripts make them a uniquely troublesome medium for conservation. Their illumination, adhesives, paints, inks, papers, and even their very bindings can pose issues ranging from toxic chemicals to lost pages. Some of these issues are universal to book conservation. The troubles with ink on parchment pages and of loose bindings can be found in any book contemporary to the Medieval and Migration Periods. Yet illuminated manuscripts take these usual issues and add to them with poisonous paint, corroding metals, and uniquely challenging materials such as the luxuriously expensive yet eternally flaking lapis lazuli paint. Illuminated manuscripts are also problematic because of their popularity amongst displays. For these reasons and many others, illuminated manuscripts are clearly more challenging to conservators than their plainer contemporaries. Hidden away in private collections and small institutions, some of these books are gradually falling into disrepair. This fact is all the more important when you look past the aesthetic and monetary value of these books and realize that they are some of the only surviving written pieces from a time when there is so little historical information available that textbooks call it the Dark Ages. In the future, as technology evolves, it may be possible to gradually bring the economy and social system of the Migration Period into the light by carefully analyzing these books. This is why it is so important that they survive in the modern age; and why the difficulty of their care matters to everyone, weather they see a beautiful artwork or a historical road map in the glittering pages.\nManuscript preservation may also take the form of digital archiving, which is particularly useful for vulnerable manuscripts and fragments susceptible to deterioration such as the burnt fragments extant from the Cotton library fire which have now been recorded using multispectral imaging by the British Library. Fragmentarium (Digital Research Laboratory for Medieval Manuscript Fragments) is an online database which, since September 2017, preserves and collates fragments of medieval manuscripts making them available to researchers, collectors and historians worldwide. It is an international collaboration of major libraries and collections including the British Library, Harvard, Stanford, Yale and the Vatican.\n\nAnderson, Janice. Illuminated Manuscripts. New York: Todtri, 1999. Print.\n\nAlexander, J J. G. Medieval Illuminators and Their Methods of Work. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1992. Print.\n\nClarkson, Christopher. \"The Kennicott Bible: Its Illumination, Binding, Conservation Problems and Repair.\" Collection Management. 31 (2007): 31-56. Print.\n\nDean, John. \"World View of Book Conservation.\" Collection Management. 31 (2007): 139-154. Print.\n\nDe, Hamel C. The British Library Guide to Manuscript Illumination: History and Techniques. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2001. Print.\n\nGray, EP. \"Book Binding.\" Bulletin of the Medical Library Association. 5.2 (1915): 26-32. Print.\n\nLangwell, William H. The Conservation of Books and Documents. Westport, Conn: Greenwood Press, 1974. Print.\n\nLe, Gac A, Gac A. Le, M Guerra, S Longelin, M Manso, S Pessanha, A.I.M Seruya, M.L Carvalho, I.D Nogueira, and J.C Frade. \"Microscopy and X-Ray Spectroscopy Analyses for Assessment of Gilding and Silvering Techniques of Portuguese Illuminated Manuscripts.\" Microscopy and Microanalysis. 21.1 (2015): 20-55. Print.\n\nPermanence/Durability of the Book – VII: Physical and Chemical Propertias of Book Papers, 1507-1949. W. J. Barrow Research Laboratory, INC., 1974. Print.\n\nSolechnik, N I. A. New Methods for the Restoration and Preservation of Documents and Books: (novye Metody Restavratsii Knig). Jerusalem: Israel Program for Scientific Translations, 1964. Print.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "529669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529669", "title": "Council of Science Editors", "text": "Council of Science Editors\n\nThe Council of Science Editors (CSE) is a United States-based nonprofit organization that supports editorial practice among scientific writers. In 2008, the CSE adopted the slogan \"CSE: Education, Ethics, and Evidence for Editors (E4)\".\n\nA volunteer Board of Directors leads the Council, with the assistance of several committees. CSE is managed by Kellen Company, located in Wheat Ridge, Colorado.\n\nThe organization was established in 1957 by the National Science Foundation and the American Institute of Biological Sciences as the Council of Biology Editors (CBE), being renamed the Council of Science Editors, with a broader mission, on January 1, 2000.\n\nThe membership of CSE comprises editorial professionals, mainly in the United States.\n\nAs well as providing services and advice online, CSE holds an annual meeting that includes short courses on topics such as journal editorship, publication management, manuscript editing, and journal metrics.\n\nThe CSE offers guidance on ethics and practice in scientific publishing.\n\nThe CSE publishes a style guide for scientific papers, \"Scientific Style and Format: The CSE Manual for Authors, Editors, and Publishers\", although CSE style is not as widely used as some other scientific styles such as AMA style and APA style. In 2014, CSE partnered with the University of Chicago Press to use the successful online platform of the \"Chicago Manual of Style\" (CMOS) (which provides users with search and personal annotation of the manual) to publish \"Scientific Style and Format\" online. As of 2014, it is in the 8th edition. The 7th edition was published in 2006 and the 6th in 1994.\n\"Science Editor\" is the quarterly publication of the CSE; after one year, articles are available as open access (delayed open access).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38448243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38448243", "title": "Danish Arts Foundation", "text": "Danish Arts Foundation\n\nThe Danish Arts Foundation (Danish: Statens Kunstfond) is the principal Danish government funded arts foundation founded by a special Law on 27 May 1964.\n\nStatens Kunstfond alongside the (English sometimes State Arts Council now Danish Agency for Culture) allocates funds provided by the Ministry of Culture (). It is overseen and administered by the (Danish Cultural Authority) which is an administrative unit of the Ministry of Culture. Danish literature is supported both by the Statens Kunstfond and a larger amount directly by the Ministry of Culture.\n\nIn 2014 the Danish Arts Council and the Danish Arts Foundation merged to form one new body, to be known as the Danish Arts Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9430314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9430314", "title": "Demographics of New York (state)", "text": "Demographics of New York (state)\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, as of 2010, New York was the third largest state in population after California and Texas, with a population of 19,378,102, an increase of over 400,000 people, or 2.1%, since the year 2000. The population change between 2000-2006 includes a natural increase of 601,779 people (1,576,125 births minus 974,346 deaths) and a decrease due to net migration of 422,481 people out of the state. Immigration from outside the United States resulted in a net increase of 820,388 people, and migration within the country produced a net loss of about 800,213. This means a very small population change for the state.\n\nThe distribution of change in population growth is uneven in New York State; the New York City metropolitan area is growing considerably, along with Saratoga County, while most of Western New York is nearly stagnant. According to immigration statistics, the state is a leading recipient of migrants from around the globe. Since 2005, immigration failed to surpass emigration, a trend that was reversed since 2006. New York State lost two house seats in the 2011 congressional reapportionment, secondary to relatively slow growth when compared to the rest of the United States.\n\nThe center of population of New York is located in Orange County, in the town of Deerpark. Roughly 64% of the state's population lives in the New York City metropolitan area and 40% in New York City alone.\n\nNew York State has a primarily urban population. The largest city in the state is New York City, which is also one of the world's most ethnically diverse and cosmopolitan cities. Additional major urban centers include Albany, Buffalo, Rochester and Syracuse. The state has 62 counties; the most populated one is Kings County (Brooklyn).\n\nAs of the 2010 census, New York State has a population of 19,378,102, including 12,740,974 (65.7%) white, 3,073,800 (15.9%) black, 1,420,244 (7.3%) Asian, 8,766 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, and 1,441,563 (7.4%) of other races. 585,849 (3.0%) has two or more races. Hispanics and Latinos of all races make up 3,416,922 (17.6%) of the state's population; non-Hispanic whites make up 58.3% of the state's population.\n\nAccording to 2004 estimates, 20.4% of the population was foreign-born. Among cities in New York State, 36% of New York City's population is foreign-born; this figure of approximately 3 million is a higher total number of foreign-born residents than any other U.S. city. The top ancestry groups in New York State are Italian American (15.8%), African American (14.4%), Hispanic (14.2%), Irish (12.9%), German (11.1%), English (6%), and Polish (5.27%). 1.5% of the state population is multiracial.\n\nNew York contains the largest Puerto Rican population in the country, concentrated in parts of New York City such as the Bronx, Brooklyn, and Manhattan. New York also has the largest Dominican population in the country, concentrated in New York City's Upper Manhattan and the Bronx. New York City is home to many blacks, the majority with roots in the United States but a group which includes those with roots in Caribbean Islands like Jamaica, Barbados, Guyana, Trinidad and Haiti, as well as recent immigrants from Sub-Saharan African countries. The Bronx has a large population of blacks that are of Latin American origin, but so does northern Manhattan (Harlem) and Brooklyn which had American-born black majorities since the 1920s, as well the largest African American population of any state. New York City has 1 million of New York State's 1.4 million Asian Americans. At 520,000 of New York State's over 600,000 Chinese Americans, New York City has a higher total number of Chinese Americans than Los Angeles County. New York also has the highest and growing proportion of Pakistani Americans and Bangladeshi Americans in the country, and a very high Indian American community, mainly concentrated in New York City. Unlike New York City, smaller cities in Upstate New York, especially Western New York, are not as diverse. Cities such as Buffalo and Rochester are predominantly made of African Americans, Puerto Ricans, and ethnic European whites.\n\nAmong New York State's cities, as of 2010, New York City is 44% white, 28% Latino, 25% African American, and 13% percent Asian American. The city of Buffalo, New York state's second-largest city, is 50% white (45% non-Hispanic white), 38% African American, 10% Latino, and 3% Asian American. The state capital of Albany is 57% white (64% non-Hispanic white), 30% African American, 8% Latino, and 5% Asian American.\nIn the 2000 Census, Italian Americans make up the largest ancestral group in Staten Island and Long Island, followed by Irish Americans and Polish Americans. Manhattan's leading ancestry group is Dominicans since the 2000 census, followed by Irish Americans, then Italian Americans and more than 200 nationalities are counted, plus comparably large numbers of residents with Dutch, Portuguese, Greek, Russian, and Swedish ancestry. Albany and southeast-central New York are heavily Irish American and Italian American. In Buffalo and western New York, German Americans are the largest group along with Polish Americans and other Slavic nationalities; in the northern tip of the state, French Canadians. New York State has a higher number of Italian-Americans than any other U.S. state. New York City is also said to be home to two million of Italian descent alone. NYC was once called the largest German, Greek, Irish, Italian, Polish and Russian communities outside their representative countries of origin. \n\nSometimes classified an ethnic group by some demographers and sometimes as a religious identity (Judaism), American Jews of various nationalities and various denominations, but most are American-born, are a major social presence in New York. An estimated 1 to 2 million alone in New York City and another 1 to 1.5 million live in surrounding areas, sometimes New York is referred to as the \"world's largest Jewish city\" since the mid-19th century. The first wave of Jewish immigrants in New York are of Sephardic origin, a scant 10,000 from the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Portugal in the 17th and 18th centuries, but in the 19th century more newcomers were first German and finally in the early 20th century millions from Eastern Europe like Poland and Russia, both of Ashkenazi origin. In the late 20th century, a smaller wave of Russian Jews and Ukrainian Jews settled in the Brighton Beach section in Brooklyn, and New York has many Israeli-American residents. \n\nThe intense development, urbanization and suburban sprawl of New York City makes it the most populated region in the U.S., an estimated 20 to 30 million in the eight-state Megalopolis stretching 500 miles from Boston to Washington DC, with New York City in the middle has 15 million residents in a 100-mile radius including Philadelphia (1.5 million in its city limits), northern New Jersey and Connecticut. The bulk of New York's population lives within two hours of New York City. According to the July 1, 2004 Census Bureau Estimate, New York City and its six closest New York State satellite counties (Suffolk, Nassau, Westchester, Rockland, Putnam and Orange) have a combined population of 12,626,200 people, or 65.67% of the state's population.\n\nAccording to the 2000 U.S. Census, 13.61% of the population aged 5 and older speak Spanish at home, while 2.04% speak Chinese (including Cantonese and Mandarin), 1.65% Italian, and 1.23% Russian . \nIn age demographics: 6.5% of New York's population were under 5 years of age, 24.7% under 18, and 12.9% were 65 or older. Females made up 51.8% of the population. New York state has a fluctuating population growth rate, it has experienced some shrinkage in the 1970s and 1980s, but milder growth in the 1990s and the first decade of the 21st century.\n\n\"Note: Births in table don't add up, because Hispanics are counted both by their ethnicity and by their race, giving a higher overall number.\"\n\nThe most common American English accents spoken, besides General American English, were the New York City area dialect (including New York Latino English and North Jersey English,) Hudson Valley English (including the Western New England accent around Albany,) and Inland Northern American English from the Buffalo and upstate New York area.\nAs of 2015, 70.72% (12,788,233) of New York residents age 5 and older spoke English at home as a primary language, while 14.44% (2,611,903) spoke Spanish, 2.61% (472,955) Chinese (which includes Cantonese and Mandarin), 1.20% (216,468) Russian, 1.18% (213,785) Italian, 0.79% (142,169) French Creole, 0.75% (135,789) French, 0.67% (121,917) Yiddish, 0.63% (114,574) Korean, and Polish was spoken as a main language by 0.53% (95,413) of the population over the age of five. In total, 29.28% (5,295,016) of New York's population age 5 and older spoke a mother language other than English.\n\nA 2017 survey found that the religious affiliations of the people of New York were:\n\n1% of the people surveyed refused to answer.\n\n"}
{"id": "54004579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54004579", "title": "Elizabeth Hazelton Haight", "text": "Elizabeth Hazelton Haight\n\nElizabeth Hazelton Haight (February 11, 1872 - November 15, 1964) was an American classical scholar and academic who specialised in Latin teaching. She spent most of her career working for Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York.\n\n\"Hazel\" Haight was born in Auburn, to John White Haight and Helen M. (Meeker) Haight. Her father was one of the leading businessmen in Auburn during his lifetime.\n\nHaight matriculated at Vassar College in 1890, and was commencement speaker for her undegraduate class, graduating from Vassar in 1894. She also edited the Yearbook for that year. She received her AM, also from Vassar, in 1899, with a dissertation entitled \"Conditional Sentences in the Iliad and the Odyssey.\" She then moved to Cornell University, where she studied with Charles E. Bennett, and received her PhD with a thesis titled \"The Sea in Greek Poetry\" in 1909. During her graduate study she held teaching posts in preparatory schools in New York State. She returned to Vassar to join its faculty in 1902 and became chair of the Latin department from 1923 until her retirement in 1942. She was promoted to professor in 1922, 12 years after becoming an associate professor, partly due to the strong written support of Grace Macurdy, another pioneering female classicist at Vassar. In her correspondence, Macurdy praised Haight for her \"executive ability\" and described her as a teacher \"whose enthusiasm and genuine love for her subject infect her classes.\" Haight's association with Macurdy continued throughout her career, as both taught together at Vassar for the remainder of their careers, and became close friends. This association also included their shared efforts in the public campaign to resist the removal of Bert Hodge Hill from his position at the American School of Classical Studies at Athens in the 1920s.\n\nHaight died in Beacon, Dutchess County and is buried in Fort Hill Cemetery.\n\nHaight was the first woman to chair the Advisory Council of the then American School of Classical Studies at Rome. She was also elected as president of the American Philological Association in 1934 - the second woman to hold that post. She gave her presidential address on \"Prose Fiction in the Augustan Age.\" During the mid-1930s, many scholars were emigrating from Germany under Nazi rule; Haight organised a programme of these visiting scholars to Vassar College.\n\nDuring her long residency at Vassar College, Haight opened and voluntarily curated the Vassar Classical Museum and bought objects and inscriptions for it. This appreciation for the contributions of archaeology to a classical education was described by Donald Lateiner as \"ahead of its time\". She also wrote a history of the college, along with James Monroe Taylor, its president from 1886 to 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "9426193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9426193", "title": "Etlatongo", "text": "Etlatongo\n\nEtlatongo is an archaeological site in Oaxaca, Mexico. Situated in the Nochixtlán Valley within the Mixteca Alta, Etlatongo encompasses both a Formative Period site, located between two rivers, and a Classic/Post-classic site, on a hill to the north.\n\nEtlatongo experienced a sharp population growth beginning in roughly 1150 BCE and lasting for 300 years. It was during this period that trade goods, including figurines, ceramics, and obsidian, including artifacts identified with the Zapotecs, Olmecs, and the Valley of Mexico, enter the archaeological record.\n\nStudies of Etlatongo artifacts, including obsidian and pottery, indicate that Etlatongo participated in a wide-ranging trade network.\n\nEtlatongo continued to be occupied through the Post-classic period.\n\n"}
{"id": "12730907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12730907", "title": "Fair Game (memoir)", "text": "Fair Game (memoir)\n\nFair Game: My Life as a Spy, My Betrayal by the White House (New York: Simon & Schuster, 2007) is a memoir by Valerie Plame Wilson. Mrs. Wilson is the former covert CIA officer whose then-classified non-official cover (NOC) identity as \"Valerie Plame\" was leaked to the press in July 2003, after her husband, former Ambassador Joseph C. Wilson, IV, had criticized the George W. Bush administration's rationale for the Iraq War. The outing made her the center of the American political scandal known as the Plame affair. Her public outing led to her decision to resign from the CIA in December 2005, when she attempted to retire early at the age of 42. Being told that she could not collect her pension until the age of 56, she determined to write this book both as a means of telling her own story in her own words and as a means of earning income to replace her deferred retirement annuity. She encountered resistance from the CIA in the course of chronicling her work with the organization.\n\nAs Janet Maslin writes in her \"New York Times\" review on the day of publication, \"the story of how her career was derailed and her C.I.A. cover blown ... has its combative side. But the real proof of Ms. Wilson’s fighting spirit is the form in which her version of events has been brought into the light of day.\"\n\nThe phrase \"fair game\" in the title of Mrs. Wilson's memoir refers to a comment that President George W. Bush's Deputy White House Chief of Staff for Strategic Planning and Senior Advisor Karl Rove reportedly told Chris Matthews, the host of MSNBC's television show \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\": \"I just got off the phone with Karl Rove. He says, and I quote, 'Wilson's wife is fair game.'\"\n\"Fair Game\" serves as a metaphor derived from more recent contexts of her life that the author relates in this book; given the nature of covert espionage, it may suggest multiple meanings.\n\nAfter the title of Valerie Plame Wilson's book had already been widely disseminated, on August 19, 2007, on \"Meet the Press\" with David Gregory, Gregory asked Rove, who identified himself as an \"avid Republican\", among other statements pertaining to the CIA leak grand jury investigation attributed to him, whether he \"considered her fair game in this debate\" between her husband and The White House over the President's so-called \"sixteen words\". Rove responded that the phrase \"fair game\" attributed to him by Chris Matthews was Matthews' phrase not his own and that he himself did not consider Mrs. Wilson (in Gregory's phrase) \"an appropropriate target in this debate.\"\n\nIn October 2003 Evan Thomas and Michael Isikoff reported in \"Newsweek\" that \"The White House spokesman dismissed as 'ridiculous' the charge that Rove outed Plame.\" As Thomas and Isikoff note, \"It may be significant that both Rove and Libby deny leaking classified information. They may say that in talking to reporters they used her name without knowing that she was undercover.\"\n\nChris Matthews reportedly declined to discuss the telephone conversation that he had had with Rove, according to Thomas and Iskikoff in \"Newsweek\", who quote the conversation that Wilson reported having with Matthews and then add parenthetically: \"(Matthews told \"Newsweek\": 'I’m not going to talk about off-the-record conversations.')\" David Corn of \"The Nation\" notes Matthews' statement to \"Newsweek\" \"that he would not discuss off-the record conversations,\" adding, also parenthetically, that, earlier, \"he [Matthews] told me the same...\"\n\nMatthews was one of over twenty-five journalists subpoenaed by Special Counsel Patrick Fitzgerald regarding their conversations with high-level Bush administration officials pertaining to the CIA leak grand jury investigation (2003–2005), leading to the indictment and prosecution, conviction, and sentencing of Scooter Libby in \"United States v. Libby\" (2007).\n\nUltimately, whereas Fitzgerald's grand jury did not indict Rove for committing any alleged crimes, and, in October 2005, it did indict Libby not for allegedly having leaked Mrs. Wilson's identity but for allegedly having lied in his sworn testimony pertaining to the leak investigation, federal felonies for which a jury convicted and a judge sentenced him, a sentence which was commuted by Presidential proclamation. On July 19, 2007, a district court judge dismissed the Wilsons' civil lawsuit (Plame v. Cheney) which charged related offenses by the various government officials. The dismissal was on jurisdictional grounds, that the case belonged in federal court. The Wilsons appealed that decision, but on August 12, 2008, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the dismissal in a 2–1 decision. On June 21, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear the appeal.\n\nOn April 6, 2006, Matthews stated his own point of view on the CIA leak publicly in some detail in his conversation with Senator John Kerry on \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\", describing as \"high drama\" Scooter Libby's testimony that the President of the United States via the Vice President of the United States had \"ordered\" Libby to leak classified information pertaining to national security in order to bolster the case for the Iraq War after it began in March 2003.\n\nOn June 7, 2007, the day after Lewis Libby's sentencing, in a conversation with actor and political activist Ben Affleck about other matters, Chris Matthews used the phrase \"fair game\" several times, initially citing its use in a question submitted for Affleck by a viewer, whose own use of the phrase could reflect Matthews' already well-publicized reported use of it by Wilson, \"Newsweek\", and many other media sources. His later usage of the phrase \"fair game\" in talking with Affleck about other matters raises a possibility that the phrase \"fair use\" that he reportedly used in talking with Wilson about Rove's comments about \"Wilson's wife\" (as quoted in \"The Politics of Truth\" [2004, 2005] and as previously quoted in \"Newsweek\" [2003]) was his own phrase and not Rove's, as Rove later disavowed it.\n\nNevertheless, whether or not Rove originated it, the phrase still conveys metaphorically what Matthews and the Wilsons appear to think that Rove literally may have intended: to \"target\" (in Gregory's later terminology) Wilson and, collaterally, to leak the information about his wife's CIA identity in the process. The CIA leak grand jury investigation did not result in charging that anyone leaked her name intentionally while knowing that it was a classified covert identity, in part, Special Counsel Fitzgerald later argued in \"United States v. Libby\", because of Libby's obstruction of justice. The jury convicted Libby on four of the five counts in the indictment: one count of obstruction of justice; two counts of perjury; and one count of making false statements to federal investigators, he was sentenced on June 5, 2007, and President Bush commuted his 30-month prison sentence on July 2, 2007.\n\nOn July 3, 2007, the day after President Bush commuted Libby's sentence, Chris Matthews talked again with former Ambassador Wilson, who reiterated his belief that the Bush administration had inappropriately leaked his wife's then-classified covert CIA identity to retaliate against him politically, in effect targeting her. Matthews asked Wilson: \"When did you sense that the White House was trying to destroy your reputation?\" and he replied: \"Well, it was pretty clear to me shortly after I wrote my article \"What I Didn't Find in Africa\", when Mr. Novak spoke to a friend of mine on the street and said that, Wilson's a 'blank,' and his wife works for the CIA, that the nature of the smear campaign they were going to run against me was going to include the betrayal of her identity as a covert CIA officer. And that would have been around July 8 or July 9 [2003].\"\n\nThe subtitle \"My Life as a Spy, My Betrayal by the White House\" corresponds to parts of the subtitle of the 2005 paperback edition of former Ambassador Wilson's memoir \"Inside the Lies that Put the White House on Trial and Betrayed My Wife's CIA Identity: A Diplomat's Memoir\". Since her identity was leaked by Richard Armitage, then Deputy Secretary of State, the subtitles are not entirely accurate.\n\nJanet Maslin:\nAlan Cooperman:\nIn 2010, the book was adapted into a film starring Sean Penn and Naomi Watts as Plame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15864296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15864296", "title": "Fluency", "text": "Fluency\n\nFluency (also called volubility and eloquency) is the property of a person or of a system that delivers information quickly and with expertise.\n\nLanguage fluency is one of a variety of terms used to characterize or measure a person's language ability, often used in conjunction with accuracy and complexity. Although there are no widely agreed-upon definitions or measures of language fluency, someone is typically said to be fluent if their use of the language appears \"fluid\", or natural, coherent, and easy as opposed to slow, halting use. In other words, fluency is often described as the ability to produce language on demand and be understood.\n\nVarying definitions of fluency characterize it by the language user’s automaticity, their speed and coherency of language use, or the length and rate of their speech output. Theories of automaticity postulate that more fluent language users can manage all of the components of language use without paying attention to each individual component of the act. In other words, fluency is achieved when one can access language knowledge and produce language unconsciously, or automatically. Theories that focus on speed or length and rate of speech typically expect fluent language users to produce language in real time without unusual pauses, false starts, or repetitions (recognizing that some presence of these elements are naturally part of speech). Fluency is sometimes considered to be a measure of performance rather than an indicator of more concrete language knowledge, and thus perception and understandability are often key ways that fluency is understood.\n\nLanguage fluency is sometimes contrasted with accuracy (or correctness of language use, especially grammatical correctness) and complexity (or a more encompassing knowledge of vocabulary and discourse strategies). Fluency, accuracy, and complexity are distinct but interrelated components of language acquisition and proficiency.\n\nThere are four commonly discussed types of fluency: reading fluency, oral fluency, oral-reading fluency, and written or compositional fluency. These types of fluency are interrelated, but do not necessarily develop in tandem or linearly. One may develop fluency in certain type(s) and be less fluent or nonfluent in others.\n\nIn the sense of proficiency, \"fluency\" encompasses a number of related but separable skills:\n\nBecause an assessment of fluency is typically a measure or characterization of one's language ability, determining fluency may be a more challenging task when the speaker is acquiring a second language. It is generally thought that the later in life a learner approaches the study of a foreign language, the harder it is to acquire receptive (auditory) comprehension and fluent production (speaking) skills. For adults, once their mother tongue has already been established, the acquisition of a second language can come more slowly and less completely, ultimately affecting fluency. However, the critical period hypothesis is a hotly debated topic, with some scholars stating that adults can in fact become fluent in acquiring a second language. For instance, reading and writing skills in a foreign language can be acquired more easily even after the primary language acquisition period of youth is over.\n\nSo although it is often assumed that young children learn languages more easily than adolescents and adults, the reverse is in fact true; older learners are faster. The only exception to this rule is in pronunciation. Young children invariably learn to speak their second language with native-like pronunciation, whereas learners who start learning a language at an older age only rarely reach a native-like level.\n\nSince childhood is a critical period, widespread opinion holds that it is easier for young children to learn a second language than it is for adults. Children can even acquire native fluency when exposed to the language on a consistent basis with rich interaction in a social setting. In addition to capacity, factors like; 1) motivation, 2) aptitude, 3) personality characteristics, 4) age of acquisition 5) first language typology 6) socio-economic status and 7) quality and context of L2 input play a role in L2 acquisitions rate and building fluency. Second language acquisition (SLA) has the ability to influence children’s cognitive growth and linguistic development.\n\nSkill that consists of ability to produce words in target language develops until adolescence. Natural ability to acquire a new language with a deliberate effort may begin to diminish around puberty i.e. 12–14 years of age. Learning environment, comprehensible instructional materials, teacher, and the learner are indispensable elements in SLA and developing fluency in children. Extensive reading in L2 can offer twofold benefits in foreign language learning i.e. \"reading to comprehend English and reading to learn English\".\n\nParadis (2006) study on childhood language acquisition and building fluency examines how first and second language acquisition patterns are generally similar including vocabulary and morphosyntax. Phonology of first language is usually apparent in SLA and initial L1 influence can be lifelong, even for child L2 learners.\n\nChildren can acquire a second language simultaneously (learn L1 and L2 at the same time) or sequentially (learn L1 first and then L2). In the end, they develop fluency in both with one dominant language which is spoken largely by the community they live in.\n\nAccording to one source, there are five stages of SLA and developing fluency:\n\nThe process of learning a second language or \"L2,\" among older learners differs from younger learners because of their working memory. Working memory, also connected to fluency because it deals with automatic responses, is vital to language acquisition. This happens when information is stored and manipulated temporarily. During working memory, words are filtered, processed, and rehearsed, and information is stored while focusing on the next piece of interaction. These false starts, pauses or repetitions found in fluency assessments, can also be found within one's working memory as part of communication.\n\nThose with education at or below a high school level are least likely to take language classes. It has also been found that women and young immigrants are more likely to take language classes. Further, highly educated immigrants who are searching for skilled jobs – which require interpersonal and intercultural skills that are difficult to learn – are the most affected by lower fluency in the L2.\n\nFluency is a speech language pathology term that means the smoothness or flow with which sounds, syllables, words and phrases are joined together when speaking quickly. \"Fluency disorders\" is used as a collective term for cluttering and stuttering. Both disorders have breaks in the fluidity of speech, and both have the fluency breakdown of repetition of parts of speech.\n\nStudies in the assessment of creativity list fluency as one of the four primary elements in creative thinking, the others being flexibility, originality and elaboration. Fluency in creative thinking is seen as the ability to think of many diverse ideas quickly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46702992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46702992", "title": "Frederick William Everest", "text": "Frederick William Everest\n\nFrederick William Everest (3 December 1910 - 24 January 1977) was an Australian murderer who killed two American servicemen in Brisbane during World War II. He was known as \"The Man in the Grey Suit\".\n\nIn 1945 aged 34 years old, Everest shot and killed two US military officers, Lt. Allen C. Middleton and Chief Petty Officer John David McCollum, who were among the many American forces stationed in Brisbane at the time.\n\nEvererst killed Middleton on 11 January at a lavatory near the Customs House. A man was seen fleeing the scene of the crime in a grey suit and the killer became dubbed \"The Man in the Grey Suit\".\n\nHe killed McCollom at Denman St Alderly on 24 January with a sawn-off shotgun. The police heard reports that shots had been fired in a house at Farrington Street, Alderley. A squad of detectives arrived but could not find anything. They went into adjoining street, Denman Street, and found McCollom had been shot in the abdomen. He told the detectives had opened the back door of a house he was renting in answer to a knock and had been shot. McCollom managed to give a description of the man then was taken to hospital, where he was operated on but died at 10pm.\n\nEverest had been delivering bread in the local area. Police tracked him down and arrested him.\n\nEverest was a mentally ill returned soldier who believed that \"those Yanks\" had tried to poison him. He was found to be mentally ill and spent the rest of his days in a mental hospital, initially Goodna Mental Hospital.\n\nFrederick William Everest died in 1977 in Brisbane.\n\n"}
{"id": "52248861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52248861", "title": "German Historical Institute Moscow", "text": "German Historical Institute Moscow\n\nThe German Historical Institute Moscow is a history institute of the Max Weber Stiftung based in Moscow, Russia. The founding director was Bernd Bonwetsch, the director as of 2016 is Nikolaus Katzer.\n\n"}
{"id": "27659267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27659267", "title": "Great Bath, Mohenjo-daro", "text": "Great Bath, Mohenjo-daro\n\nThe Great Bath is one of the best-known structures among the ruins of the ancient Indus Valley Civilization at Mohenjo-daro in Sindh, Pakistan.\nArchaeological evidence indicates that the Great Bath was built in the 3rd millennium BC, soon after the raising of the \"citadel\" mound on which it is located.\n\nThe Great Bath of Mohenjo-daro is called the \"earliest public water tank of the ancient world\". It measures 11.88 × 7.01 metres, and has a maximum depth of 2.43 metres. Two wide staircases, one from the north and one from the south, served as the entry to the structure. A one metre wide and 40 centimetres high mound is present at the ends of these stairs. A hole was also found at one end of the Bath which might have been used to drain the water into it.\n\nThe floor of the tank was watertight due to finely fitted bricks and mud laid on edge with a kind of plaster and the side walls were constructed in a similar manner. To make the tank even more watertight, a thick layer of bitumen (waterproof tar) was laid along the sides of the pool and presumably also on the floor. Brick colonnades were discovered on the eastern, northern and southern edges. The preserved columns had stepped edges that may have held wooden screens or window frames. Two large doors lead into the complex from the south and other access was from the north and east. A series of rooms were located along the eastern edge of the building and in one room was a well that may have supplied some of the water needed to fill the tank. Rainwater also may have been collected for the purpose, but no inlet drains have been found. It had a long bathing pool built with waterproof bricks.\n\nMost scholars agree that this tank would have been used for special religious functions where water was used to purify and renew the well being of the bathers.\n\nAcross the street of Great Bath, there was a large building with several rooms and three verandas, and two staircases leading to roof and upper floor. Considering the size and proximity to Great Bath, this building is tentatively termed as house of priests and labelled as \"college of priests\".\n\nIt was found in 1926 during archaeological excavations.\n\nThe site of Mohenjo-daro is depicted in the Pakistani rupee 20 Rs note.\n"}
{"id": "31321518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31321518", "title": "Guy Cook", "text": "Guy Cook\n\nGuy W. D. Cook (born 10 October 1951) is an applied linguist. He is currently Professor of Language in Education at King's College London in the UK and is also Chair of The British Association for Applied Linguistics for the period 2009-2012. He teaches and writes about English language teaching, literary stylistics, discourse analysis, advertising, and the language of food politics.\n\nHe is known for three strands of research:\n\n\nCook is a graduate of the University of Cambridge, where he read English. He holds a master's degree and a Ph.D. from the University of London. He worked initially as a language teacher in the UK, Egypt, Italy, and the Soviet Union, before beginning his academic career in 1985. He was a lecturer at the University of Leeds 1985-1991, head of Modern Languages and TESOL at the London University Institute of Education 1991-1998, Professor of Applied Linguistics at the University of Reading 1998-2004, and Professor of Language and Education at The Open University 2005-2012. He was co-editor of the journal Applied Linguistics from 2004-2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "328985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328985", "title": "Hamamatsu", "text": "Hamamatsu\n\nAs of March 1, 2018, the city had an estimated population of 795,350, making it the prefecture's largest city and a population density of 510 persons per km. The total area was .\n\nOn July 1, 2005, Hamamatsu absorbed the cities of Tenryū and Hamakita, the town of Haruno (from Shūchi District), the towns of Hosoe, Inasa and Mikkabi (all from Inasa District), the towns of Misakubo and Sakuma, the village of Tatsuyama (all from Iwata District), and the towns of Maisaka and Yūtō (both from Hamana District) to become the current and expanded city of Hamamatsu. It became a city designated by government ordinance on April 1, 2007.\n\nThe area now comprising Hamamatsu has been settled since prehistoric times, with numerous remains from the Jōmon period and Kofun period having been discovered within the present city limits, including the Shijimizuka site shell mound and the Akamonue Kofun ancient tomb. In the Nara period, it became the capital of Tōtōmi Province. During the Sengoku period, Hamamatsu Castle was the home of future \"shōgun\" Tokugawa Ieyasu. Hamamatsu flourished during the Edo period under a succession of \"daimyō\" rulers as a castle town, and as a post town on the Tōkaidō. After the Meiji Restoration, Hamamatsu became a short-lived prefecture from 1871 to 1876, after which it was united with Shizuoka Prefecture. Hamamatsu Station opened on the Tōkaidō Main Line in 1889. The same year, in a cadastral reform of Japan, Hamamatsu became a town.\n\nHamamatsu is southwest of Tokyo.\n\nHamamatsu consists of a flat plain and the Mikatahara Plateau in the south, and a mountainous area in the north. It is roughly bordered by Lake Hamana to the west, the Tenryū River to the east, and the Pacific Ocean to the south.\n\nThe climate in southern Hamamatsu has a humid subtropical climate with cool to mild winters with little snowfall; however, it is windy in winter because of the dry monsoon called \"Enshū no Karakaze\", which is unique to the region. The climate in northern Hamamatsu is much harsher because of foehn winds. Summer is hot with the highest temperature often exceeds 35 degrees in the Tenryu-ku area, while it snows in winter.\n\nHamamatsu is administratively divided into seven wards:\n\nShizuoka Prefecture\nAichi Prefecture\nNagano Prefecture\n\nAs of the 2008 Japanese census the total population was estimated to be 824,057. As of an unspecified year, 29,635 non-Japanese live in Hamamatsu.\n\nSince 1990 the number of non-Japanese children in Hamamatsu increased. Natsuko Fukue of \"The Japan Times\" wrote in 2010 that many foreign children have difficulty integrating to society in Hamamatsu because \"Japanese and foreign communities live largely separate from one another.\"\n\nThe foreign population dropped significantly in the aftermath of the global financial crisis in 2008, with the Hamamatsu city government offering aid for some foreign nationals to return to their home countries.\n\nAs of an unspecified period the city has 15,899 Brazilians, making up 60% of the foreign population. Brazilians were the majority of the foreigners in the city. Hamamatsu has the largest Brazilian Nikkei population of any Japanese city, but it is the city of Ōizumi, Gunma which has the highest concentration of them. Toshiko Sugino (杉野 俊子 \"Sugino Toshiko\") of the National Defense Academy of Japan wrote that people in Hamamatsu \"are considered open-minded\" to the ethnic diversity. The city has a lot of Portuguese signage. It includes a Brazilian school, and many businesses catering to Brazilians display Brazilian flags.\n\nAs of an unspecified year, there were 2,500 Brazilian residents under the age of 18, with 1,600 of them being under 15. As of that unspecified year, 500 Brazilian minors were not attending any educational institution.\n\nThe chairperson of the Hamamatsu NPO Network Center, Mitsue Inoue, stated in 2010 that \"There are many Brazilian supermarkets and schools (in Hamamatsu), but Japanese living there don't know that they exist.\"\n\nHamamatsu has been famous as an industrial city, especially for musical instruments and motorcycles. It also has been known for fabric industry, but most of those companies and factories went out of business in the 1990s. As of 2010, Greater Hamamatsu, Hamamatsu Metropolitan Employment Area, has a GDP of US$54.3 billion.\n2014 Hamamatsu's GDP per capita(PPP) was US$41,470.\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are no civilian airports in Hamamatsu. Shizuoka Airport () is the closest, located from Hamamatsu Station, between Makinohara and Shimada.\n\nChūbu Centrair International Airport in Aichi Prefecture, located about west of the city, is the second closest.\n\n\n\nSenior high schools operated by Shizuoka Prefecture:\nThere is one senior high school operated by the city government: Hamamatsu Municipal Senior High School\n\nElementary and junior high schools are operated by the city government. , the city had 117 public elementary schools and 52 public junior high schools.\n\nThe city has the following Brazilian international schools:\n\nIt has one combined Peruvian school () and Brazilian primary school, Mundo de Alegría.\n\nThe city formerly hosted other Brazilian schools, Colégio Pitágoras Brasil and Escola Cantinho Feliz.\n\nThe city includes a Brazilian curriculum, Portuguese-language private school, serving elementary school through senior high school. The school, which opened in 1996, is accredited in Brazil but not by Japanese authorities. As of an unspecified time period, the school had 100 students. The principal stated that he painted and remodeled the school facilities, a former dormitory used by a company.\n\nAs of May 1, 2009, the municipal elementary and junior high schools had 1,638 non-Japanese students. , there were 932 Brazilians enrolled in Hamamatsu's municipal elementary and junior high schools: 646 Brazilians were enrolled in 61 public elementary schools, and 286 Brazilians were enrolled in 38 public junior high schools.\n\nWithin public schools Brazilian students have the same academic programs and take the same classes as Japanese nationals. Special teachers and assistants work with foreign students at municipal elementary and junior high schools with significant numbers of non-Japanese enrolled. In particular the schools use their part-time interpreters to assist Brazilian students. The interpreters are not formal teachers, yet Tsutsumi Angela Aparecida of Hamamatsu's Burajiru Fureai Kai wrote that \"[t]heir assistance \nhas become very useful\". Toshiko Sugino of the National Defense Academy of Japan wrote that the municipal and prefectural schools in Hamamatsu \"follow traditional views of education and enforce rigid school rules\" despite the reputation of open-mindedness in the residents of Hamamatsu, causing some foreigners to send their non-Japanese children to foreign private schools.\n\nIn Hamamatsu volunteers and a non-profit organization have established Japanese-language classes and native language classes for foreign children.\n\n\n\nThe Hamamatsu Arena was one of the host arenas of the 2006 FIBA World Championship.\n\nHamamatsu 3x3 FIBA: Placed Second at FIBA World Tour FInal in ABU Dhabi in 2016.\n\nHamamatsu was one of the host cities of the official 2010 Women's Volleyball World Championship.\n\nHamamatsu has ratified Music Culture Exchange Treaty with the following cities (however, of the following Rochester is the only official sister city):\n\nHamamatsu is twinned with:\n\n\nEver since long ago, Mount Akiha was believed to have supernatural powers to prevent fires. Bow and arrow, sword, and fire dances are performed at the Akiha Shrine. At the Akiha Temple, a firewalking ceremony is performed where both believers and spectators celebrate the festival.\n\nWhen a family commemorates the first \"Obon\" holidays after the death of a loved one, they may request that a \"dainenbutsu\" (Buddhist chanting ritual) be performed outside their house. This is one of the local performing arts of the region. The group always forms a procession in front of the house led by a person carrying a lantern and marches to the sound of flutes, Japanese drums and cymbals.\n\nHamamatsu Kite Festival is also called Hamamatsu Festival. Hamamatsu Kite Festival held from May 3 to May 5 each year, includes a \"Tako Gassen\", or kite fight, and luxuriously decorated palace-like floats. The festival originated about 430 years ago, when the lord of Hamamatsu Castle celebrated the birth of his first son by flying kites. In the Meiji Era, the celebration of the birth of a first son by flying \"Hatsu Dako\", or the first kite, became popular, and this tradition has survived in the form of Hamamatsu Kite Festival. During the nights of Hamamatsu Kite Festival, people parade downtown carrying over 70 \"yatai\", or palace-lake floats, that are beautifully decorated while playing Japanese traditional festival music. The festival reaches its peak when groups representing the city's various districts compete by energetically marching through the downtown streets.\n\nThis festival is held in honor of Ryujin, the god believed to be associated with the Tenryū River, and features a wide variety of events such as the Hamakita takoage (kite flying) event and the \"Hiryu himatsuri\" (flying dragon fire festival) which celebrates water, sound, and flame.\n\nThis festival celebrates Hamamatsu's history as a city of musical instruments and music, and brings dozens of the best young pianists from all over the world. It has been held triennially since 1991 at the Act City Concert Hall and Main Hall.\n\nThis event takes place in Man'yō-no-Mori Park to commemorate the Man'yō period and introduce its culture. As part of the festival, people reenact the ancient past by wearing traditional clothes from the Heian period and presenting Japanese poetry readings.\n\nOne of the few puppet festivals held in Japan, featuring 60 performances of about 30 plays by puppet masters from all over the country. The shows provide a full day of enjoyment for both children and adults.\n\nThis reenactment of a procession made by the princess in her palanquin along with her entourage of over 100 people including maids, samurai, and servants makes for a splendid scene beneath the cherry blossoms along the Toda River. In the Edo period, princesses enjoyed traveling this road which came to be known as a \"hime kaidō\" (\"princess road\").\n\nThe Hamamatsu Samba Festival is held in the city.\n\nIn Ryusui Garden there is a stream with seven small waterfalls and about 80 weeping \"ume\" trees pruned to give the appearance of dragons riding on clouds to the heavens. There are also 200 young trees planted along the mountainside.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4223558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4223558", "title": "India Book House", "text": "India Book House\n\nIndia Book House Pvt. Limited (IBH) is an importer, distributor and publisher of books and magazines in India.\n\nFormed in 1952, India Book House published paperback editions of children's authors such as Enid Blyton and Frederick Forsyth, as well as comics such as \"The Adventures of Tintin\" and \"Asterix\", often in Indian languages as well. Their most famous series is the \"Amar Chitra Katha\" comics line that retells stories from the great Indian epics, mythology, history, folklore, and fables. In 2007, the imprint and all its titles were acquired by a new venture called ACK Media. Today, IBH is one of the leading publishers of illustrated volumes on Indian history and heritage, specializing in architecture, fine art, decorative art, film, environment, and lifestyle.\n\nIndia Book House is headquartered in Mumbai. It has now been merged with the Oxford Bookstore and Stationery Company to become Oxford and IBH and is one of the largest book wholesalers in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "14312875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14312875", "title": "Italian irredentism in Corsica", "text": "Italian irredentism in Corsica\n\nItalian irredentism in Corsica was a cultural and historical movement promoted by Italians and by people from Corsica who identified themselves as part of Italy rather than France, and promoted the Italian annexation of the island.\n\nCorsica was part of the Republic of Genoa for centuries until 1768, when the Republic ceded the island to France, one year before the birth of Napoleon Bonaparte in the capital city of Ajaccio. Under France, the use of Corsican (a regional tongue which is closely related to Italian) has gradually declined in favour of the standard French language. \n\nGiuseppe Garibaldi called for the inclusion of the \"Corsican Italians\" within Italy when Rome was annexed to the Kingdom of Italy, but Victor Emmanuel II did not agree to it.\n\nThe course of Italian irredentism did not affect Corsica very much, and only during the Fascist rule of Benito Mussolini were the first organizations strongly promoting the unification of the island to the Kingdom of Italy founded.\n\nBefore World War I in Livorno, professor Francesco Guerri founded the review \"Corsica antica e moderna\", inspired on the \"Archivio storico di Corsica\" of Gioacchino Volpe. Petru Rocca created in the 1920s the \"Partito autonomista\" (Autonomist Party) of Corsica, of which he was the leader, with the support of monsignor Domenico Parlotti and dr. Croce, director of the \"Archivi di Stato della Corsica\".\n\nBefore and during World War II, some Corsican intellectuals staged pro-Italian propaganda and cultural activities in Italy (mainly in the \"Gruppi di Cultura Corsa\" \"Corsican culture Associations\"). These included Marco Angeli, Bertino Poli, Marchetti, Luccarotti, Grimaldi, and finally Petru Giovacchini, that was later proposed as a possible governor of Corsica in case Italy had annexed it. The most renowned was Petru Giovacchini, who considered Pasquale Paoli (the hero of Corsica) as the precursor of Corsican irredentism in favor of the unification of the island to Italy. The \"Gruppi di Cultura Corsa\" of Giovacchini reached a membership of 72,000 members by 1940, according to the historian R.H. Rainero.\n\nIn November 1942 the VII Army Corps of the Regio Esercito occupied Corsica as part of the German-led response to the Ally landings in Africa, leaving the island still under the formal sovereignty of Vichy France. Because of the lack of partisan resistance at first, and to avoid problems with Marshal Philippe Pétain, no Corsican units were formed under Italian control (except for a labour battalion formed in March 1943). However, a Resistance movement based on local inhabitants loyal to France and boosted by Free French leaders developed, opposing the irredentist propaganda and the Italian occupation, and was repressed by the fascist forces and subsequently by German troops.\n\nSome irredentist Corsican military officials collaborated with Italy, including the retired Major Pantalacci (and his son Antonio), colonel Mondielli and colonel Petru Simone Cristofini (and his wife, the first Corsican female journalist Marta Renucci). After Free French forces and Resistance forces, together with some Italian troops which sided with the Allies, retook Corsica, Petru Cristofini was executed in 1943. Of nearly 100 irrendentist collaborators (including intellectuals) put on trial by the French authorities in 1946, eight were sentenced to death, but none were executed. Petru Giovacchini was also condemned to death, but fled to Italy where he found refuge until his death in 1955. Italian irredentism as an active movement in Corsica died out with him, though separate groups calling for autonomy and even independence from France, as well as a local terrorist organization (National Front for the Liberation of Corsica), are currently active.\n\nColonel Pietro Cristofini (or Petru Simon Cristofini) was born in Calenzana (near Calvi, Corsica) on 26 May 1903 and in 1939 became a captain of the 3rd Algerian Fusiliers regiment. He was initially a supporter of Pétain. After the Allied occupation of French North Africa he commanded the \"Phalange Africaine\". \n\nIn Tunisia he was wounded in one eye and then, before returning to Corsica, met Benito Mussolini in Rome. He was a supporter of the union of Corsica to Italy and defended irredentist ideals. He actively collaborated with Italian forces in Corsica during the first months of 1943. In the island he worked with Petru Giovacchini (the possible governor of Corsica if the Axis had won the war). Cristofini, as head of the Ajaccio troops, helped the Italian Army to repress Resistance opposition in Corsica before the Italian Armistice in September 1943.\n\nHe was put on trial for treason after the Allies retook Corsica, and sentenced to death. He tried to kill himself, and was executed while suffering from his wounds in November 1943. His wife, Marta Renucci, was sentenced in 1946 to 15 years of jail in Algiers for supporting irredentism and for collaborating with Italian fascism, but served only a reduced sentence.\n\nWhile Corsican was spoken at home as a local vernacular, Italian had been the public and literary language on the island until the first half of the 19th century. \n\nThe Constitution, written in 1755 for the short-lived Corsican Republic, was written in Italian and Paoli proclaimed Italian as the official language of Corsica. Italian was the \"language of culture\" in Corsica until the end of the 19th century. Even Paoli's second Corsican Constitution, for the Anglo-Corsican Kingdom in 1794, was in Italian. In the second half of the 19th century French replaced Italian, mainly because of Napoleon III. Corsican started to be used by Corsican intellectuals. \n\nModern Corsican (\"Corsu\") is directly related to the Tuscan dialect of Pisa, an Italian city that dominated the island before Genoa. In the north of the island (Calvi), there was a local dialect (now nearly extinct) very similar to medieval Genoese. In the mountainous interior of Corsica there is a significant number of villages where most inhabitants have some proficiency of Corsican, a medieval Pisan lect.\n\nThe extreme similarity of Corsican to Italian can be seen in an example phrase:\nCorsican: \"Sò natu in Corsica è g'aghju passatu i megli anni di a mio ghjuventù\"\nItalian: \"Sono nato in Corsica e ci ho passato i migliori anni della mia gioventù\"\nEnglish: \"I was born in Corsica and I spent there the best years of my youth\"\n\nNearly 12% of Corsicans can speak Italian, while three-quarters understand it thanks to the television programmes from Italy.\n\nThe irredentist Marco Angeli di Sartèna wrote the first book in Corsican (titled \"Terra còrsa\") in 1924 and many lyrics (titled \"Malincunie\") in Ajaccio. He created and wrote the newspaper «Gioventù» of the \"Partito Corso d'azione\" (\"Corsican Action Party\"), partially in Italian and Corsican.\n\nPasquale Paoli was considered by Niccolo Tommaseo, who collected his \"Lettere\" (Letters), as one of the precursors of Italian irredentism. \n\nThe \"Babbu di a Patria\" (\"Homeland's father\"), as Pasquale Paoli was nicknamed by the Corsican separatists, wrote in his Letters the following message in 1768 against the French: \"We (Corsicans) are Italians by birth and feelings, but first of all we feel Italian by language, roots, customs, traditions and all the Italians are all brothers for History and for God... As Corsicans we do not want to be slaves nor \"rebels\" and as Italians we have the right to be treated like all the other Italian brothers... Either we'll be free or we'll be nothing... Either we'll win or we'll die (against the French) with our weapons in our hands... The war against France is just and holy as the name of God is holy and just, and here on our mountains will appear for all Italy the sun of liberty.\" (\"\"Siamo còrsi per nascita e sentimento ma prima di tutto ci sentiamo italiani per lingua, origini, costumi, tradizioni e gli italiani sono tutti fratelli e solidali di fronte alla storia e di fronte a Dio… Come còrsi non vogliamo essere né schiavi né \"ribelli\" e come italiani abbiamo il diritto di trattare da pari con gli altri fratelli d’Italia… O saremo liberi o non saremo niente… O vinceremo con l’onore o soccomberemo (contro i francesi) con le armi in mano... La guerra con la Francia è giusta e santa come santo e giusto è il nome di Dio, e qui sui nostri monti spunterà per l’Italia il sole della libertà…\"\")\n\nPasquale Paoli wanted the Italian language to be the official language of his Corsican Republic. His Corsican Constitution of 1755 was in Italian and was used as a model for the American constitution of 1787. Furthermore, in 1765 Paoli founded in the city of Corte the first University of Corsica (where the teaching was done in Italian).\n\nThe Italian language, promoted by the Corsican Italians, had been the language of culture in Corsica since the Renaissance. Many Corsican authors wrote an extensive literature in Italian in the last centuries.\n\nIn the 14th century there was \"La Cronica\" of Giovanni della Grossa (1388-1464), Pier Antonio Monteggiani (1464-1525) and Marcantoni Ceccaldi (1526-1559). \"Storia di Corsica\" was published in 1594 by Anton Pietro Filippini. In the 15th and 16th centuries there were Ignazio Cardini (1566-1602), Pietro Cirneo (1447-1507), Guiglielmo Guglielmi di Orezza (1644-1728) with \"A Malannata\" and \"Ottave giocose\".\n\nIn the 18th century, the \"Accademia dei Vagabondi\" was founded in Bastia, following the model of the Italian \"Accademie\". Angelo Francesco Colonna wrote \"Commentario delle glorie e prerogative del Regno e Popoli di Corsica\" in 1685.\n\nDuring the Corsican Republic of Pasquale Paoli, there were Giulio Matteo Natali (\"Disinganno intorno alla Guerra de Corsica\" in 1736), Don Gregorio Salvini (\"Giustificazione della Revoluzione di Corsica (1758-1764)\") and the same Pasquale Paoli (\"Corrispondenza\", published only in 1846).\n\nDuring the 19th century in Bastia, Salvatore Viale wrote \"La Dionomachia\" in 1817, \"Canti popolari corsi\" in 1843 and \"Dell'uso della lingua patria in Corsica\" in 1858. \n\nMany Corsican authors (who wrote in Italian) were influenced by the ideals of the Italian Risorgimento during the second half of the 19th century, such as Giuseppe Multado, Gian Paolo Borghetti, Francesco Ottaviano Renucci (\"Storia della Corsica dal 1789 al 1830\" and \"Novelle storiche corse\"). Even the Italian Nicolo Tommaseo collected the \"Canti popolari corsi\" (with points of view of Italian irredentism) and made a compilation of the letters (\"Lettere di Pasquale de Paoli\") of Pasquale Paoli.\n\nSantu Casanova founded the famous literary review \"A Tramuntana\" (published in Ajaccio between 1896 and 1914) and wrote in Italian \"Meraviglioso testamento di Francesco\" in 1875 and \"La morte ed il funerale di Spanetto\" in 1892. He is considered the link between the old generations of Corsican writers who wrote in Italian language and the new ones, who started to use the Corsican language.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, the most important Corsican publication in Italian was the literary review \"A Muvra\" of Petru Rocca. Other Corsican authors in Italian were Domenicu Versini (nicknamed \"Maistrale\"), Matteu Rocca (\"I lucchetti\" in 1925), Dumenicu Carlotti (\"Pampame corse\" in 1926), Ageniu Grimaldi and Ugo Babbiziu (\"Una filza di francesismi colti nelle parlate dialettali corse\" in 1930).\n\nThe Corsican Italians who promoted the ideal of Corsican irredentism published mainly in Italy, because of the persecutions from the French regime in the island in the first half of the 20th century. \n\nThus, Petru Giovacchini wrote the poems \"Musa Canalinca\" and \"Rime notturne\" in 1933 in Corsica, but successively wrote and published \"Aurore, poesie corse\", \"Corsica Nostra\" and \"Archiatri pontifici corsi\" in Rome (the last, while he was in exile in 1951, a few years before his premature death). \n\nThe irredentist Marco Angeli published in Milan \"Gigli di Stagnu\" and \"Liriche corse\" in 1934 and Bertino Poli wrote \"Il pensiero irredentista corso e le sue polemiche\" in Florence in 1940.\n\nSmall list of renowned Corsican Italians:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28944429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28944429", "title": "Jogamaya Devi College", "text": "Jogamaya Devi College\n\nJogamaya Devi College is one of the oldest and leading women's college in Kolkata, India. It shares the same building with Asutosh College and is named after the wife of Sir Asutosh Mukherjee. It is a National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accredited Grade \"B\" college. It offers undergraduate and postgraduate degrees and is affiliated to the University of Calcutta. It was established in 1932.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9376332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9376332", "title": "Knocking Our Own Ting", "text": "Knocking Our Own Ting\n\nKnocking Our Own Ting is a pamphlet-length satire written by Evan X Hyde discussing the Battle of St. George's Caye, a naval battle off the coast of Belize occurring in 1798. This battle has been celebrated since 1898 on September 10 as St. George's Caye Day. In the 1950s, Belizeans were beginning to question their identity and beliefs as a people, and one of the first things questioned was the \"myth\" of St. George's Caye. Did white master and black slave fight as equals? Or were blacks subordinates?\n\nHyde, already exposed to Black Power theory, argues that the Battle of St. George's Caye tends to divide Belizeans more than unify them. The combatants in the battle- white slavemasters and black slaves- are ancestors and forefathers of the various shades of Belizean Creole people and their Spanish (Mexican) opponents are forefathers of the Mestizos. The glorifying of the slaves' efforts only further alienates Mestizo people from the development of Belize.\n\nFor Hyde, the 10th really celebrates the successful division of the Belizean people. He also questions how, after disciplining the runaway slaves from the slave revolt of 1773 harshly, the British decided to use them in fighting the hated Spanish, who had already succeeded in removing the Baymen from the settlement previously. Hyde also questions the relevancy of a holiday for Creole in a multi-racial, multi-ethnic society. He concludes that the Battle is better off celebrated for the achievements of the blacks, rather than any national pride attached to it, as long as Belize remained a colony of Great Britain (Belize became independent in 1981).\n\nBenex Press issued the first edition of \"Knocking\" in 1969. It then went out of print until the publication of \"X-Communication\" by Angelus Press in 1995.\n"}
{"id": "520188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=520188", "title": "Kurt Reidemeister", "text": "Kurt Reidemeister\n\nKurt Werner Friedrich Reidemeister (13 October 1893 – 8 July 1971) was a mathematician born in Braunschweig (Brunswick), Germany.\n\nHe was a brother of Marie Neurath.\nBeginning in 1912, he studied in Freiburg, Munich, Marburg, and Göttingen. In 1920, he got the staatsexamen (master's degree) in mathematics, philosophy, physics, chemistry, and geology.\nHe received his doctorate in 1921 with a thesis in algebraic number theory at the University of Hamburg under the supervision of Erich Hecke. \n\nHe became interested in differential geometry; he edited Wilhelm Blaschke's 2nd volume about that issue, and both made an acclaimed contribution to the Jena DMV conference in Sep 1921.\n\nIn October 1922 (or 1923) he was appointed assistant professor at the University of Vienna. While there he became familiar with the work of Wilhelm Wirtinger on knot theory, and became closely connected to Hans Hahn and the Vienna Circle. Its manifesto (1929) lists one of Reidemeister's publications in a bibliography of closely related authors.\n\nIn 1925 he became full professor at University of Königsberg; he stayed until 1933, when he was regarded politically unsound by the Nazis, and dismissed from his chair. \n\nBlaschke managed to get a promise about Reidemeister's reappointment, and in autumn 1934 he got the chair of Kurt Hensel in Marburg. He stayed there, except for a visit to the Princeton Institute for Advanced Study in 1948–1950, until he got appointed to Göttingen University in 1955, where he stayed until his emeritation.\n\nReidemeister's interests were mainly in combinatorial group theory, combinatorial topology, geometric group theory, and the foundations of geometry. His books include \"Knoten und Gruppen\" (1926), \"Einführung in die kombinatorische Topologie\" (1932), and \"Knotentheorie\" (1932). He co-edited the journal \"Mathematische Annalen\" from 1947 until 1963.\n"}
{"id": "47149378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47149378", "title": "Mace of the Philippine Senate", "text": "Mace of the Philippine Senate\n\nThe Mace of the Philippine Senate is used as the symbol of authority in the Senate of the Philippines.\nIt represents the authority of the President of the Senate and also the authority of the Sergeant-at-Arms when enforcing order in the institution. It is considered a significant part of the Senate's regalia and is a symbol of the institution being properly constituted.When the Senate is in session, where it is displayed at the Senate President's rostrum. If the Senate is not in session, it is kept under the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.\n\nThe Sergeant-at-Arms, is designated as custodian of the mace. At certain occasions such as disorder in the session hall, the official shall lift the mace from its pedestal and present it before an unruly member in order to restore order or quell boisterous behavior in the Chamber.\n"}
{"id": "155406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155406", "title": "Mircea Eliade", "text": "Mircea Eliade\n\nMircea Eliade (; – April 22, 1986) was a Romanian historian of religion, fiction writer, philosopher, and professor at the University of Chicago. He was a leading interpreter of religious experience, who established paradigms in religious studies that persist to this day. His theory that \"hierophanies\" form the basis of religion, splitting the human experience of reality into sacred and profane space and time, has proved influential. One of his most influential contributions to religious studies was his theory of \"Eternal Return\", which holds that myths and rituals do not simply commemorate hierophanies, but, at least to the minds of the religious, that the hierophanies actually participate in them.\n\nHis literary works belong to the fantastic and autobiographical genres. The best known are the novels \"Maitreyi\" (\"La Nuit Bengali\" or \"Bengal Nights\"), \"Noaptea de Sânziene\" (\"The Forbidden Forest\"), \"Isabel și apele diavolului\" (\"Isabel and the Devil's Waters\") and \"Romanul Adolescentului Miop\" (\"Novel of the Nearsighted Adolescent\"), the novellas \"Domnișoara Christina\" (\"Miss Christina\") and \"Tinerețe fără tinerețe\" (\"Youth Without Youth\"), and the short stories \"Secretul doctorului Honigberger\" (\"The Secret of Dr. Honigberger\") and \"La Țigănci\" (\"With the Gypsy Girls\").\n\nEarly in his life, Eliade was a journalist and essayist, a disciple of Romanian far-right philosopher and journalist Nae Ionescu, and a member of the literary society \"Criterion\". In the 1940s, he served as cultural attaché to the United Kingdom and Portugal. Several times during the late 1930s, Eliade publicly expressed his support for the Iron Guard, a fascist and antisemitic political organization. His political involvement at the time, as well as his other far right connections, were frequently criticised after World War II.\n\nNoted for his vast erudition, Eliade had fluent command of five languages (Romanian, French, German, Italian, and English) and a reading knowledge of three others (Hebrew, Persian, and Sanskrit). He was elected a posthumous member of the Romanian Academy.\n\nBorn in Bucharest, he was the son of Romanian Land Forces officer Gheorghe Eliade (whose original surname was Ieremia) and Jeana \"née\" Vasilescu. An Orthodox believer, Gheorghe Eliade registered his son's birth four days before the actual date, to coincide with the liturgical calendar feast of the Forty Martyrs of Sebaste. Mircea Eliade had a sister, Corina, the mother of semiologist Sorin Alexandrescu. His family moved between Tecuci and Bucharest, ultimately settling in the capital in 1914, and purchasing a house on Melodiei Street, near Piața Rosetti, where Mircea Eliade resided until late in his teens.\n\nEliade kept a particularly fond memory of his childhood and, later in life, wrote about the impact various unusual episodes and encounters had on his mind. In one instance during the World War I Romanian Campaign, when Eliade was about ten years of age, he witnessed the bombing of Bucharest by German zeppelins and the patriotic fervor in the occupied capital at news that Romania was able to stop the Central Powers' advance into Moldavia.\n\nHe described this stage in his life as marked by an unrepeatable epiphany. Recalling his entrance into a drawing room that an \"eerie iridescent light\" had turned into \"a fairy-tale palace\", he wrote,\nI practiced for many years [the] exercise of recapturing that epiphanic moment, and I would always find again the same plenitude. I would slip into it as into a fragment of time devoid of duration—without beginning, middle, or end. During my last years of lycée, when I struggled with profound attacks of melancholy, I still succeeded at times in returning to the golden green light of that afternoon. [...] But even though the beatitude was the same, it was now impossible to bear because it aggravated my sadness too much. By this time I knew the world to which the drawing room belonged [...] was a world forever lost.\n\nRobert Ellwood, a professor of religion who did his graduate studies under Mircea Eliade, saw this type of nostalgia as one of the most characteristic themes in Eliade's life and academic writings.\n\nAfter completing his primary education at the school on Mântuleasa Street, Eliade attended the Spiru Haret National College in the same class as Arșavir Acterian, Haig Acterian, and Petre Viforeanu (and several years the senior of Nicolae Steinhardt, who eventually became a close friend of Eliade's). Among his other colleagues was future philosopher Constantin Noica and Noica's friend, future art historian Barbu Brezianu.\n\nAs a child, Eliade was fascinated with the natural world, which formed the setting of his very first literary attempts, as well as with Romanian folklore and the Christian faith as expressed by peasants. Growing up, he aimed to find and record what he believed was the common source of all religious traditions. The young Eliade's interest in physical exercise and adventure led him to pursue mountaineering and sailing, and he also joined the Romanian Boy Scouts.\n\nWith a group of friends, he designed and sailed a boat on the Danube, from Tulcea to the Black Sea. In parallel, Eliade grew estranged from the educational environment, becoming disenchanted with the discipline required and obsessed with the idea that he was uglier and less virile than his colleagues. In order to cultivate his willpower, he would force himself to swallow insects and only slept four to five hours a night. At one point, Eliade was failing four subjects, among which was the study of the Romanian language.\n\nInstead, he became interested in natural science and chemistry, as well as the occult, and wrote short pieces on entomological subjects. Despite his father's concern that he was in danger of losing his already weak eyesight, Eliade read passionately. One of his favorite authors was Honoré de Balzac, whose work he studied carefully. Eliade also became acquainted with the modernist short stories of Giovanni Papini and social anthropology studies by James George Frazer.\n\nHis interest in the two writers led him to learn Italian and English in private, and he also began studying Persian and Hebrew. At the time, Eliade became acquainted with Saadi's poems and the ancient Mesopotamian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". He was also interested in philosophy—studying, among others, Socrates, Vasile Conta, and the Stoics Marcus Aurelius and Epictetus, and read works of history—the two Romanian historians who influenced him from early on were Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu and Nicolae Iorga. His first published work was the 1921 \"Inamicul viermelui de mătase\" (\"The Silkworm's Enemy\"), followed by \"Cum am găsit piatra filosofală\" (\"How I Found the Philosophers' Stone\"). Four years later, Eliade completed work on his debut volume, the autobiographical \"Novel of the Nearsighted Adolescent\".\n\nBetween 1925 and 1928, he attended the University of Bucharest's Faculty of Philosophy and Letters in 1928, earning his diploma with a study on Early Modern Italian philosopher Tommaso Campanella. In 1927, Eliade traveled to Italy, where he met Papini and collaborated with the scholar Giuseppe Tucci.\n\nIt was during his student years that Eliade met Nae Ionescu, who lectured in Logic, becoming one of his disciples and friends. He was especially attracted to Ionescu's radical ideas and his interest in religion, which signified a break with the rationalist tradition represented by senior academics such as Constantin Rădulescu-Motru, Dimitrie Gusti, and Tudor Vianu (all of whom owed inspiration to the defunct literary society \"Junimea\", albeit in varying degrees).\n\nEliade's scholarly works began after a long period of study in British India, at the University of Calcutta. Finding that the Maharaja of Kassimbazar sponsored European scholars to study in India, Eliade applied and was granted an allowance for four years, which was later doubled by a Romanian scholarship. In autumn 1928, he sailed for Calcutta to study Sanskrit and philosophy under Surendranath Dasgupta, a Bengali Cambridge alumnus and professor at Calcutta University, the author of a five volume \"History of Indian Philosophy\". Before reaching the Indian subcontinent, Eliade also made a brief visit to Egypt. Once there, he visited large areas of the region, and spent a short period at a Himalayan \"ashram\".\n\nHe studied the basics of Indian philosophy, and, in parallel, learned Sanskrit, Pali and Bengali under Dasgupta's direction. At the time, he also became interested in the actions of Mahatma Gandhi, whom he met personally, and the \"Satyagraha\" as a phenomenon; later, Eliade adapted Gandhian ideas in his discourse on spirituality and Romania.\n\nIn 1930, while living with Dasgupta, Eliade fell in love with his host's daughter, Maitreyi Devi, later writing a barely disguised autobiographical novel \"Maitreyi\" (also known as \"La Nuit Bengali\" or \"Bengal Nights\"), in which he claimed that he carried on a physical relationship with her.\n\nEliade received his PhD in 1933, with a thesis on Yoga practices. The book, which was translated into French three years later, had significant impact in academia, both in Romania and abroad.\n\nHe later recalled that the book was an early step for understanding not just Indian religious practices, but also Romanian spirituality. During the same period, Eliade began a correspondence with the Ceylonese-born philosopher Ananda Coomaraswamy. In 1936–1937, he functioned as honorary assistant for Ionescu's course, lecturing in Metaphysics.\n\nIn 1933, Mircea Eliade had a physical relationship with the actress Sorana Țopa, while falling in love with Nina Mareș, whom he ultimately married. The latter, introduced to him by his new friend Mihail Sebastian, already had a daughter, Giza, from a man who had divorced her. Eliade subsequently adopted Giza, and the three of them moved to an apartment at 141 Dacia Boulevard. He left his residence in 1936, during a trip he made to the United Kingdom and Germany, when he first visited London, Oxford and Berlin.\n\nAfter contributing various and generally polemical pieces in university magazines, Eliade came to the attention of journalist Pamfil Șeicaru, who invited him to collaborate on the nationalist paper \"Cuvântul\", which was noted for its harsh tones. By then, \"Cuvântul\" was also hosting articles by Ionescu.\n\nAs one of the figures in the \"Criterion\" literary society (1933–1934), Eliade's initial encounter with the traditional far right was polemical: the group's conferences were stormed by members of A. C. Cuza's National-Christian Defense League, who objected to what they viewed as pacifism and addressed antisemitic insults to several speakers, including Sebastian; in 1933, he was among the signers of a manifesto opposing Nazi Germany's state-enforced racism.\n\nIn 1934, at a time when Sebastian was publicly insulted by Nae Ionescu, who prefaced his book (\"De două mii de ani...\") with thoughts on the \"eternal damnation\" of Jews, Mircea Eliade spoke out against this perspective, and commented that Ionescu's references to the verdict \"Outside the Church there is no salvation\" contradicted the notion of God's omnipotence. However, he contended that Ionescu's text was not evidence of antisemitism.\n\nIn 1936, reflecting on the early history of the Romanian Kingdom and its Jewish community, he deplored the expulsion of Jewish savants from Romanian soil, making specific references to Moses Gaster, Heimann Hariton Tiktin and Lazăr Șăineanu. Eliade's views at the time focused on innovation—in the summer of 1933, he replied to an anti-modernist critique written by George Călinescu:\nAll I wish for is a deep change, a complete transformation. But, for God's sake, in any direction other than spirituality.\n\nHe and friends Emil Cioran and Constantin Noica were by then under the influence of Trăirism, a school of thought that was formed around the ideals expressed by Ionescu. A form of existentialism, Trăirism was also the synthesis of traditional and newer right-wing beliefs. Early on, a public polemic was sparked between Eliade and Camil Petrescu: the two eventually reconciled and later became good friends.\n\nLike Mihail Sebastian, who was himself becoming influenced by Ionescu, he maintained contacts with intellectuals from all sides of the political spectrum: their entourage included the right-wing Dan Botta and Mircea Vulcănescu, the non-political Petrescu and Ionel Jianu, and Belu Zilber, who was a member of the illegal Romanian Communist Party.\n\nThe group also included Haig Acterian, Mihail Polihroniade, Petru Comarnescu, Marietta Sadova and Floria Capsali.\n\nHe was also close to Marcel Avramescu, a former Surrealist writer whom he introduced to the works of René Guénon. A doctor in the Kabbalah and future Romanian Orthodox cleric, Avramescu joined Eliade in editing the short-lived esoteric magazine \"Memra\" (the only one of its kind in Romania).\n\nAmong the intellectuals who attended his lectures were Mihai Şora (whom he deemed his favorite student), Eugen Schileru and Miron Constantinescu—known later as, respectively, a philosopher, an art critic, and a sociologist and political figure of the communist regime. Mariana Klein, who became Șora's wife, was one of Eliade's female students, and later authored works on his scholarship.\n\nEliade later recounted that he had himself enlisted Zilber as a \"Cuvântul\" contributor, in order for him to provide a Marxist perspective on the issues discussed by the journal. Their relation soured in 1935, when the latter publicly accused Eliade of serving as an agent for the secret police, \"Siguranța Statului\" (Sebastian answered to the statement by alleging that Zilber was himself a secret agent, and the latter eventually retracted his claim).\n\nEliade's articles before and after his adherence to the principles of the Iron Guard (or, as it was usually known at the time, the \"Legionary Movement\"), beginning with his \"Itinerar spiritual\" (\"Spiritual Itinerary\", serialized in \"Cuvântul\" in 1927), center on several political ideals advocated by the far right.\n\nThey displayed his rejection of liberalism and the modernizing goals of the 1848 Wallachian revolution (perceived as \"an abstract apology of Mankind\" and \"ape-like imitation of [Western] Europe\"), as well as for democracy itself (accusing it of \"managing to crush all attempts at national renaissance\", and later praising Benito Mussolini's Fascist Italy on the grounds that, according to Eliade, \"[in Italy,] he who thinks for himself is promoted to the highest office in the shortest of times\"). He approved of an ethnic nationalist state centered on the Orthodox Church (in 1927, despite his still-vivid interest in Theosophy, he recommended young intellectuals \"the return to the Church\"), which he opposed to, among others, the secular nationalism of Constantin Rădulescu-Motru; referring to this particular ideal as \"Romanianism\", Eliade was, in 1934, still viewing it as \"neither fascism, nor chauvinism\".\n\nEliade was especially dissatisfied with the incidence of unemployment among intellectuals, whose careers in state-financed institutions had been rendered uncertain by the Great Depression.\n\nIn 1936, Eliade was the focus of a campaign in the far right press, being targeted for having authored \"pornography\" in his \"Domnișoara Christina\" and \"Isabel și apele diavolului\"; similar accusations were aimed at other cultural figures, including Tudor Arghezi and Geo Bogza. Assessments of Eliade's work were in sharp contrast to one another: also in 1936, Eliade accepted an award from the Romanian Writers' Society, of which he had been a member since 1934. In summer 1937, through an official decision which came as a result of the accusations, and despite student protests, he was stripped of his position at the University.\n\nEliade decided to sue the Ministry of Education, asking for a symbolic compensation of 1 leu. He won the trial, and regained his position as Nae Ionescu's assistant.\n\nNevertheless, by 1937, he gave his intellectual support to the Iron Guard, in which he saw \"a Christian revolution aimed at creating a new Romania\", and a group able \"to reconcile Romania with God\". His articles of the time, published in Iron Guard papers such as \"Sfarmă Piatră\" and \"Buna Vestire\", contain ample praises of the movement's leaders (Corneliu Zelea Codreanu, Ion Moţa, Vasile Marin, and Gheorghe Cantacuzino-Grănicerul). The transition he went through was similar to that of his fellow generation members and close collaborators—among the notable exceptions to this rule were Petru Comarnescu, sociologist Henri H. Stahl and future dramatist Eugène Ionesco, as well as Sebastian.\n\nHe eventually enrolled in the \"Totul pentru Țară\" (\"Everything for the Fatherland\" Party), the political expression of the Iron Guard, and contributed to its 1937 electoral campaign in Prahova County—as indicated by his inclusion on a list of party members with county-level responsibilities (published in \"Buna Vestire\").\n\nThe stance taken by Eliade resulted in his arrest on July 14, 1938 after a crackdown on the Iron Guard authorized by King Carol II. At the time of his arrest, he had just interrupted a column on \"Provincia și legionarismul\" (\"The Province and Legionary Ideology\") in \"Vremea\", having been singled out by Prime Minister Armand Călinescu as an author of Iron Guard propaganda.\n\nEliade was kept for three weeks in a cell at the \"Siguranţa Statului\" Headquarters, in an attempt to have him sign a \"declaration of dissociation\" with the Iron Guard, but he refused to do so. In the first week of August he was transferred to a makeshift camp at Miercurea-Ciuc. When Eliade began coughing blood in October 1938, he was taken to a clinic in Moroeni. Eliade was simply released on November 12, and subsequently spent his time writing his play \"Iphigenia\" (also known as \"Ifigenia\"). In April 1940, with the help of Alexandru Rosetti, became the Cultural Attaché to the United Kingdom, a posting cut short when Romanian-British foreign relations were broken.\n\nAfter leaving London he was assigned the office of Counsel and Press Officer (later Cultural Attaché) to the Romanian Embassy in Portugal, where he was kept on as diplomat by the National Legionary State (the Iron Guard government) and, ultimately, by Ion Antonescu's regime. His office involved disseminating propaganda in favor of the Romanian state. In February 1941, weeks after the bloody Legionary Rebellion was crushed by Antonescu, \"Iphigenia\" was staged by the National Theater Bucharest—the play soon raised doubts that it owed inspiration to the Iron Guard's ideology, and even that its inclusion in the program was a Legionary attempt at subversion.\n\nIn 1942, Eliade authored a volume in praise of the \"Estado Novo\", established in Portugal by António de Oliveira Salazar, claiming that \"The Salazarian state, a Christian and totalitarian one, is first and foremost based on love\". On July 7 of the same year, he was received by Salazar himself, who assigned Eliade the task of warning Antonescu to withdraw the Romanian Army from the Eastern Front (\"[In his place], I would not be grinding it in Russia\"). Eliade also claimed that such contacts with the leader of a neutral country had made him the target for Gestapo surveillance, but that he had managed to communicate Salazar's advice to Mihai Antonescu, Romania's Foreign Minister.\n\nIn autumn 1943, he traveled to occupied France, where he rejoined Emil Cioran, also meeting with scholar Georges Dumézil and the collaborationist writer Paul Morand. At the same time, he applied for a position of lecturer at the University of Bucharest, but withdrew from the race, leaving Constantin Noica and Ion Zamfirescu to dispute the position, in front of a panel of academics comprising Lucian Blaga and Dimitrie Gusti (Zamfirescu's eventual selection, going against Blaga's recommendation, was to be the topic of a controversy). In his private notes, Eliade wrote that he took no further interest in the office, because his visits abroad had convinced him that he had \"something great to say\", and that he could not function within the confines of \"a minor culture\". Also during the war, Eliade traveled to Berlin, where he met and conversed with controversial political theorist Carl Schmitt, and frequently visited Francoist Spain, where he notably attended the 1944 Lusitano-Spanish scientific congress in Córdoba. It was during his trips to Spain that Eliade met philosophers José Ortega y Gasset and Eugeni d'Ors. He maintained a friendship with d'Ors, and met him again on several occasions after the war.\n\nNina Eliade fell ill with uterine cancer and died during their stay in Lisbon, in late 1944. As the widower later wrote, the disease was probably caused by an abortion procedure she had undergone at an early stage of their relationship. He came to suffer from clinical depression, which increased as Romania and her Axis allies suffered major defeats on the Eastern Front. Contemplating a return to Romania as a soldier or a monk, he was on a continuous search for effective antidepressants, medicating himself with passion flower extract, and, eventually, with methamphetamine. This was probably not his first experience with drugs: vague mentions in his notebooks have been read as indication that Mircea Eliade was taking opium during his travels to Calcutta. Later, discussing the works of Aldous Huxley, Eliade wrote that the British author's use of mescaline as a source of inspiration had something in common with his own experience, indicating 1945 as a date of reference and adding that it was \"needless to explain why that is\".\n\nAt signs that the Romanian communist regime was about to take hold, Eliade opted not to return to the country. On September 16, 1945, he moved to France with his adopted daughter Giza. Once there, he resumed contacts with Dumézil, who helped him recover his position in academia. On Dumézil's recommendation, he taught at the \"École Pratique des Hautes Études\" in Paris. It was estimated that, at the time, it was not uncommon for him to work 15 hours a day. Eliade married a second time, to the Romanian exile Christinel Cotescu. His second wife, the descendant of boyars, was the sister-in-law of the conductor Ionel Perlea.\n\nTogether with Emil Cioran and other Romanian expatriates, Eliade rallied with the former diplomat Alexandru Busuioceanu, helping him publicize anti-communist opinion to the Western European public. He was also briefly involved in publishing a Romanian-language magazine, titled \"Luceafărul\" (\"The Morning Star\"), and was again in contact with Mihail Șora, who had been granted a scholarship to study in France, and with Șora's wife Mariana. In 1947, he was facing material constraints, and Ananda Coomaraswamy found him a job as a French-language teacher in the United States, at a school in Arizona; the arrangement ended upon Coomaraswamy's death in September.\n\nBeginning in 1948, he wrote for the journal \"Critique\", edited by French philosopher Georges Bataille. The following year, he went on a visit to Italy, where he wrote the first 300 pages of his novel \"Noaptea de Sânziene\" (he visited the country a third time in 1952). He collaborated with Carl Jung and the \"Eranos\" circle after Henry Corbin recommended him in 1949, and wrote for the \"Antaios\" magazine (edited by Ernst Jünger). In 1950, Eliade began attending \"Eranos\" conferences, meeting Jung, Olga Fröbe-Kapteyn, Gershom Scholem and Paul Radin. He described \"Eranos\" as \"one of the most creative cultural experiences of the modern Western world.\"\n\nIn October 1956, he moved to the United States, settling in Chicago the following year. He had been invited by Joachim Wach to give a series of lectures at Wach's home institution, the University of Chicago. Eliade and Wach are generally admitted to be the founders of the \"Chicago school\" that basically defined the study of religions for the second half of the 20th century. Upon Wach's death before the lectures were delivered, Eliade was appointed as his replacement, becoming, in 1964, the \"Sewell Avery Distinguished Service Professor of the History of Religions\". Beginning in 1954, with the first edition of his volume on \"Eternal Return\", Eliade also enjoyed commercial success: the book went through several editions under different titles, which sold over 100,000 copies.\n\nIn 1966, Mircea Eliade became a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He also worked as editor-in-chief of Macmillan Publishers' \"Encyclopedia of Religion\", and, in 1968, lectured in religious history at the University of California, Santa Barbara. It was also during that period that Mircea Eliade completed his voluminous and influential \"History of Religious Ideas\", which grouped together the overviews of his main original interpretations of religious history. He occasionally traveled out of the United States, such as attending the Congress for the History of Religions in Marburg (1960) and visits to Sweden and Norway in 1970.\n\nInitially, Eliade was attacked with virulence by the Romanian Communist Party press, chiefly by \"România Liberă\"—which described him as \"the Iron Guard's ideologue, enemy of the working class, apologist of Salazar's dictatorship\". However, the regime also made secretive attempts to enlist his and Cioran's support: Haig Acterian's widow, theater director Marietta Sadova, was sent to Paris in order to re-establish contacts with the two. Although the move was planned by Romanian officials, her encounters were to be used as evidence incriminating her at a February 1960 trial for treason (where Constantin Noica and Dinu Pillat were the main defendants). Romania's secret police, the Securitate, also portrayed Eliade as a spy for the British Secret Intelligence Service and a former agent of the Gestapo.\n\nHe was slowly rehabilitated at home beginning in the early 1960s, under the rule of Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej. In the 1970s, Eliade was approached by the Nicolae Ceaușescu regime in several ways, in order to have him return. The move was prompted by the officially sanctioned nationalism and Romania's claim to independence from the Eastern Bloc, as both phenomena came to see Eliade's prestige as an asset. An unprecedented event occurred with the interview that was granted by Mircea Eliade to poet Adrian Păunescu, during the latter's 1970 visit to Chicago; Eliade complimented both Păunescu's activism and his support for official tenets, expressing a belief that\nthe youth of Eastern Europe is clearly superior to that of Western Europe. [...] I am convinced that, within ten years, the young revolutionary generation shan't be behaving as does today the noisy minority of Western contesters. [...] Eastern youth have seen the abolition of traditional institutions, have accepted it [...] and are not yet content with the structures enforced, but rather seek to improve them.\n\nPăunescu's visit to Chicago was followed by those of the nationalist official writer Eugen Barbu and by Eliade's friend Constantin Noica (who had since been released from jail). At the time, Eliade contemplated returning to Romania, but was eventually persuaded by fellow Romanian intellectuals in exile (including Radio Free Europe's Virgil Ierunca and Monica Lovinescu) to reject Communist proposals. In 1977, he joined other exiled Romanian intellectuals in signing a telegram protesting the repressive measures newly enforced by the Ceauşescu regime. Writing in 2007, Romanian anthropologist Andrei Oișteanu recounted how, around 1984, the Securitate unsuccessfully pressured to become an agent of influence in Eliade's Chicago circle.\n\nDuring his later years, Eliade's fascist past was progressively exposed publicly, the stress of which probably contributed to the decline of his health. By then, his writing career was hampered by severe arthritis. The last academic honors bestowed upon him were the French Academy's Bordin Prize (1977) and the title of \"Doctor Honoris Causa\", granted by the University of Washington (1985).\n\nMircea Eliade died at the Bernard Mitchell Hospital in April 1986. Eight days previously, he suffered a stroke while reading Emil Cioran's \"Exercises of Admiration\", and had subsequently lost his speech function. Four months before, a fire had destroyed part of his office at the Meadville Lombard Theological School (an event which he had interpreted as an omen). Eliade's Romanian disciple Ioan Petru Culianu, who recalled the scientific community's reaction to the news, described Eliade's death as \"a \"mahaparanirvana\"\", thus comparing it to the passing of Gautama Buddha. His body was cremated in Chicago, and the funeral ceremony was held on University grounds, at the Rockefeller Chapel. It was attended by 1,200 people, and included a public reading of Eliade's text in which he recalled the epiphany of his childhood—the lecture was given by novelist Saul Bellow, Eliade's colleague at the University. His grave is located in Oak Woods Cemetery.\n\nIn his work on the history of religion, Eliade is most highly regarded for his writings on Alchemy, Shamanism, Yoga and what he called the eternal return—the implicit belief, supposedly present in religious thought in general, that religious behavior is not only an imitation of, but also a participation in, sacred events, and thus restores the mythical time of origins. Eliade's thinking was in part influenced by Rudolf Otto, Gerardus van der Leeuw, Nae Ionescu and the writings of the Traditionalist School (René Guénon and Julius Evola). For instance, Eliade's \"The Sacred and the Profane\" partially builds on Otto's \"The Idea of the Holy\" to show how religion emerges from the experience of the sacred, and myths of time and nature.\n\nEliade is known for his attempt to find broad, cross-cultural parallels and unities in religion, particularly in myths. Wendy Doniger, Eliade's colleague from 1978 until his death, has observed that \"Eliade argued boldly for universals where he might more safely have argued for widely prevalent patterns\". His \"Treatise on the History of Religions\" was praised by French philologist Georges Dumézil for its coherence and ability to synthesize diverse and distinct mythologies.\n\nRobert Ellwood describes Eliade's approach to religion as follows. Eliade approaches religion by imagining an ideally \"religious\" person, whom he calls \"homo religiosus\" in his writings. Eliade's theories basically describe how this \"homo religiosus\" would view the world. This does not mean that all religious practitioners actually think and act like \"homo religiosus\". Instead, it means that religious behavior \"says through its own language\" that the world is as \"homo religiosus\" would see it, whether or not the real-life participants in religious behavior are aware of it. However, Ellwood writes that Eliade \"tends to slide over that last qualification\", implying that traditional societies actually thought like \"homo religiosus\".\n\nEliade argues that \"Yahweh is both kind and wrathful; the God of the Christian mystics and theologians is terrible and gentle at once\". He also thought that the Indian and Chinese mystic tried to attain \"a state of perfect indifference and neutrality\" that resulted in a coincidence of opposites in which \"pleasure and pain, desire and repulsion, cold and heat [...] are expunged from his awareness\".\n\nEliade's understanding of religion centers on his concept of hierophany (manifestation of the Sacred)—a concept that includes, but is not limited to, the older and more restrictive concept of theophany (manifestation of a god). From the perspective of religious thought, Eliade argues, hierophanies give structure and orientation to the world, establishing a sacred order. The \"profane\" space of nonreligious experience can only be divided up geometrically: it has no \"qualitative differentiation and, hence, no orientation [is] given by virtue of its inherent structure\". Thus, profane space gives man no pattern for his behavior. In contrast to profane space, the site of a hierophany has a sacred structure to which religious man conforms himself. A hierophany amounts to a \"revelation of an absolute reality, opposed to the non-reality of the vast surrounding expanse\". As an example of \"sacred space\" demanding a certain response from man, Eliade gives the story of Moses halting before Yahweh's manifestation as a burning bush (\"Exodus\" 3:5) and taking off his shoes.\n\nEliade notes that, in traditional societies, myth represents the absolute truth about primordial time. According to the myths, this was the time when the Sacred first appeared, establishing the world's structure—myths claim to describe the primordial events that made society and the natural world be that which they are. Eliade argues that all myths are, in that sense, origin myths: \"myth, then, is always an account of a \"creation\"\".\n\nMany traditional societies believe that the power of a thing lies in its origin. If origin is equivalent to power, then \"it is the first manifestation of a thing that is significant and valid\" (a thing's reality and value therefore lies only in its first appearance).\n\nAccording to Eliade's theory, only the Sacred has value, only a thing's first appearance has value and, therefore, only the Sacred's first appearance has value. Myth describes the Sacred's first appearance; therefore, the mythical age is sacred time, the only time of value: \"primitive man was interested only in the \"beginnings\" [...] to him it mattered little what had happened to himself, or to others like him, in more or less distant times\". Eliade postulated this as the reason for the \"nostalgia for origins\" that appears in many religions, the desire to return to a primordial Paradise.\n\nEliade argues that traditional man attributes no value to the linear march of historical events: only the events of the mythical age have value. To give his own life value, traditional man performs myths and rituals. Because the Sacred's essence lies only in the mythical age, only in the Sacred's first appearance, any later appearance is actually the first appearance; by recounting or re-enacting mythical events, myths and rituals \"re-actualize\" those events. Eliade often uses the term \"archetypes\" to refer to the mythical models established by the Sacred, although Eliade's use of the term should be distinguished from the use of the term in Jungian psychology.\n\nThus, argues Eliade, religious behavior does not only commemorate, but also participates in, sacred events:\n\nIn \"imitating\" the exemplary acts of a god or of a mythical hero, or simply by recounting their adventures, the man of an archaic society detaches himself from profane time and magically re-enters the Great Time, the sacred time.\n\nEliade called this concept the \"eternal return\" (distinguished from the philosophical concept of \"eternal return\"). Wendy Doniger noted that Eliade's theory of the eternal return \"has become a truism in the study of religions\".\n\nEliade attributes the well-known \"cyclic\" vision of time in ancient thought to belief in the eternal return. For instance, the New Year ceremonies among the Mesopotamians, the Egyptians, and other Near Eastern peoples re-enacted their cosmogonic myths. Therefore, by the logic of the eternal return, each New Year ceremony \"was\" the beginning of the world for these peoples. According to Eliade, these peoples felt a need to return to the Beginning at regular intervals, turning time into a circle.\n\nEliade argues that yearning to remain in the mythical age causes a \"terror of history\": traditional man desires to escape the linear succession of events (which, Eliade indicated, he viewed as empty of any inherent value or sacrality). Eliade suggests that the abandonment of mythical thought and the full acceptance of linear, historical time, with its \"terror\", is one of the reasons for modern man's anxieties. Traditional societies escape this anxiety to an extent, as they refuse to completely acknowledge historical time.\n\nEliade claims that many myths, rituals, and mystical experiences involve a \"coincidence of opposites\", or \"coincidentia oppositorum\". In fact, he calls the \"coincidentia oppositorum\" \"the mythical pattern\". Many myths, Eliade notes, \"present us with a twofold revelation\":\nthey express on the one hand the diametrical opposition of two divine figures sprung from one and the same principle and destined, in many versions, to be reconciled at some \"illud tempus\" of eschatology, and on the other, the \"coincidentia oppositorum\" in the very nature of the divinity, which shows itself, by turns or even simultaneously, benevolent and terrible, creative and destructive, solar and serpentine, and so on (in other words, actual and potential).\nEliade argues that \"Yahweh is both kind and wrathful; the God of the Christian mystics and theologians is terrible and gentle at once\". He also thought that the Indian and Chinese mystic tried to attain \"a state of perfect indifference and neutrality\" that resulted in a coincidence of opposites in which \"pleasure and pain, desire and repulsion, cold and heat [...] are expunged from his awareness\".\n\nAccording to Eliade, the \"coincidentia oppositorum\"’s appeal lies in \"man's deep dissatisfaction with his actual situation, with what is called the human condition\". In many mythologies, the end of the mythical age involves a \"fall\", a fundamental \"ontological change in the structure of the World\". Because the \"coincidentia oppositorum\" is a contradiction, it represents a denial of the world's current logical structure, a reversal of the \"fall\".\n\nAlso, traditional man's dissatisfaction with the post-mythical age expresses itself as a feeling of being \"torn and separate\". In many mythologies, the lost mythical age was a Paradise, \"a paradoxical state in which the contraries exist side by side without conflict, and the multiplications form aspects of a mysterious Unity\". The \"coincidentia oppositorum\" expresses a wish to recover the lost unity of the mythical Paradise, for it presents a reconciliation of opposites and the unification of diversity:\nOn the level of pre-systematic thought, the mystery of totality embodies man's endeavor to reach a perspective in which the contraries are abolished, the Spirit of Evil reveals itself as a stimulant of Good, and Demons appear as the night aspect of the Gods.\n\nEliade acknowledges that not all religious behavior has all the attributes described in his theory of sacred time and the eternal return. The Zoroastrian, Jewish, Christian, and Muslim traditions embrace linear, historical time as sacred or capable of sanctification, while some Eastern traditions largely reject the notion of sacred time, seeking escape from the cycles of time.\n\nBecause they contain rituals, Judaism and Christianity necessarily—Eliade argues—retain a sense of cyclic time:\n\"by the very fact that it is a religion\", Christianity had to keep at least one mythical aspect—liturgical Time, that is, the periodic rediscovery of the \"illud tempus\" of the beginnings [and] an \"imitation\" of the Christ as \"exemplary pattern\".\n\nHowever, Judaism and Christianity do not see time as a circle endlessly turning on itself; nor do they see such a cycle as desirable, as a way to participate in the Sacred. Instead, these religions embrace the concept of linear history progressing toward the Messianic Age or the Last Judgment, thus initiating the idea of \"progress\" (humans are to work for a Paradise in the future). However, Eliade's understanding of Judaeo-Christian eschatology can also be understood as cyclical in that the \"end of time\" is a return to God: \"The final catastrophe will put an end to history, hence will restore man to eternity and beatitude\".\n\nThe pre-Islamic Persian religion of Zoroastrianism, which made a notable \"contribution to the religious formation of the West\", also has a linear sense of time. According to Eliade, the Hebrews had a linear sense of time before being influenced by Zoroastrianism. In fact, Eliade identifies the Hebrews, not the Zoroastrians, as the first culture to truly \"valorize\" historical time, the first to see all major historical events as episodes in a continuous divine revelation. However, Eliade argues, Judaism elaborated its mythology of linear time by adding elements borrowed from Zoroastrianism—including ethical dualism, a savior figure, the future resurrection of the body, and the idea of cosmic progress toward \"the final triumph of Good\".\n\nThe Indian religions of the East generally retain a cyclic view of time—for instance, the Hindu doctrine of \"kalpas\". According to Eliade, most religions that accept the cyclic view of time also embrace it: they see it as a way to return to the sacred time. However, in Buddhism, Jainism, and some forms of Hinduism, the Sacred lies outside the flux of the material world (called \"maya\", or \"illusion\"), and one can only reach it by escaping from the cycles of time. Because the Sacred lies outside cyclic time, which conditions humans, people can only reach the Sacred by escaping the human condition. According to Eliade, Yoga techniques aim at escaping the limitations of the body, allowing the soul (\"atman\") to rise above \"maya\" and reach the Sacred (\"nirvana\", \"moksha\"). Imagery of \"freedom\", and of death to one's old body and rebirth with a new body, occur frequently in Yogic texts, representing escape from the bondage of the temporal human condition. Eliade discusses these themes in detail in \"Yoga: Immortality and Freedom\".\n\nA recurrent theme in Eliade's myth analysis is the \"axis mundi\", the Center of the World. According to Eliade, the Cosmic Center is a necessary corollary to the division of reality into the Sacred and the profane. The Sacred contains all value, and the world gains purpose and meaning only through hierophanies:\nIn the homogeneous and infinite expanse, in which no point of reference is possible and hence no orientation is established, the hierophany reveals an absolute fixed point, a center.\n\nBecause profane space gives man no orientation for his life, the Sacred must manifest itself in a hierophany, thereby establishing a sacred site around which man can orient himself. The site of a hierophany establishes a \"fixed point, a center\". This Center abolishes the \"homogeneity and relativity of profane space\", for it becomes \"the central axis for all future orientation\".\n\nA manifestation of the Sacred in profane space is, by definition, an example of something breaking through from one plane of existence to another. Therefore, the initial hierophany that establishes the Center must be a point at which there is contact between different planes—this, Eliade argues, explains the frequent mythical imagery of a Cosmic Tree or Pillar joining Heaven, Earth, and the underworld.\n\nEliade noted that, when traditional societies found a new territory, they often perform consecrating rituals that reenact the hierophany that established the Center and founded the world. In addition, the designs of traditional buildings, especially temples, usually imitate the mythical image of the \"axis mundi\" joining the different cosmic levels. For instance, the Babylonian ziggurats were built to resemble cosmic mountains passing through the heavenly spheres, and the rock of the Temple in Jerusalem was supposed to reach deep into the \"tehom\", or primordial waters.\n\nAccording to the logic of the eternal return, the site of each such symbolic Center will actually be the Center of the World:\nIt may be said, in general, that the majority of the sacred and ritual trees that we meet with in the history of religions are only replicas, imperfect copies of this exemplary archetype, the Cosmic Tree. Thus, all these sacred trees are thought of as situated at the Centre of the World, and all the ritual trees or posts [...] are, as it were, magically projected into the Centre of the World.\nAccording to Eliade's interpretation, religious man apparently feels the need to live not only near, but \"at\", the mythical Center as much as possible, given that the Center is the point of communication with the Sacred.\n\nThus, Eliade argues, many traditional societies share common outlines in their mythical geographies. In the middle of the known world is the sacred Center, \"a place that is sacred above all\"; this Center anchors the established order. Around the sacred Center lies the known world, the realm of established order; and beyond the known world is a chaotic and dangerous realm, \"peopled by ghosts, demons, [and] 'foreigners' (who are [identified with] demons and the souls of the dead)\". According to Eliade, traditional societies place their known world at the Center because (from their perspective) their known world is the realm that obeys a recognizable order, and it therefore must be the realm in which the Sacred manifests itself; the regions beyond the known world, which seem strange and foreign, must lie far from the Center, outside the order established by the Sacred.\n\nAccording to some \"evolutionistic\" theories of religion, especially that of Edward Burnett Tylor, cultures naturally progress from animism and polytheism to monotheism. According to this view, more advanced cultures should be more monotheistic, and more primitive cultures should be more polytheistic. However, many of the most \"primitive\", pre-agricultural societies believe in a supreme sky-god. Thus, according to Eliade, post-19th-century scholars have rejected Tylor's theory of evolution from animism. Based on the discovery of supreme sky-gods among \"primitives\", Eliade suspects that the earliest humans worshiped a heavenly Supreme Being. In \"Patterns in Comparative Religion\", he writes, \"The most popular prayer in the world is addressed to 'Our Father who art in heaven.' It is possible that man's earliest prayers were addressed to the same heavenly father.\"\n\nHowever, Eliade disagrees with Wilhelm Schmidt, who thought the earliest form of religion was a strict monotheism. Eliade dismisses this theory of \"primordial monotheism\" (\"Urmonotheismus\") as \"rigid\" and unworkable. \"At most,\" he writes, \"this schema [Schmidt's theory] renders an account of human [religious] evolution since the Paleolithic era\". If an \"Urmonotheismus\" did exist, Eliade adds, it probably differed in many ways from the conceptions of God in many modern monotheistic faiths: for instance, the primordial High God could manifest himself as an animal without losing his status as a celestial Supreme Being.\n\nAccording to Eliade, heavenly Supreme Beings are actually less common in more advanced cultures. Eliade speculates that the discovery of agriculture brought a host of fertility gods and goddesses into the forefront, causing the celestial Supreme Being to fade away and eventually vanish from many ancient religions. Even in primitive hunter-gatherer societies, the High God is a vague, distant figure, dwelling high above the world. Often he has no cult and receives prayer only as a last resort, when all else has failed. Eliade calls the distant High God a \"deus otiosus\" (\"idle god\").\n\nIn belief systems that involve a \"deus otiosus\", the distant High God is believed to have been closer to humans during the mythical age. After finishing his works of creation, the High God \"forsook the earth and withdrew into the highest heaven\". This is an example of the Sacred's distance from \"profane\" life, life lived after the mythical age: by escaping from the profane condition through religious behavior, figures such as the shaman return to the conditions of the mythical age, which include nearness to the High God (\"by his \"flight\" or ascension, the shaman [...] meets the God of Heaven face to face and speaks directly to him, as man sometimes did \"in illo tempore\"\"). The shamanistic behaviors surrounding the High God are a particularly clear example of the eternal return.\n\nEliade's scholarly work includes a study of shamanism, \"\", a survey of shamanistic practices in different areas. His \"Myths, Dreams and Mysteries\" also addresses shamanism in some detail.\n\nIn \"Shamanism\", Eliade argues for a restrictive use of the word \"shaman\": it should not apply to just any magician or medicine man, as that would make the term redundant; at the same time, he argues against restricting the term to the practitioners of the sacred of Siberia and Central Asia (it is from one of the titles for this function, namely, \"šamán\", considered by Eliade to be of Tungusic origin, that the term itself was introduced into Western languages). Eliade defines a shaman as follows:\nhe is believed to cure, like all doctors, and to perform miracles of the fakir type, like all magicians [...] But beyond this, he is a psychopomp, and he may also be a priest, mystic, and poet.\n\nIf we define shamanism this way, Eliade claims, we find that the term covers a collection of phenomena that share a common and unique \"structure\" and \"history\". (When thus defined, shamanism tends to occur in its purest forms in hunting and pastoral societies like those of Siberia and Central Asia, which revere a celestial High God \"on the way to becoming a \"deus otiosus\"\". Eliade takes the shamanism of those regions as his most representative example.)\n\nIn his examinations of shamanism, Eliade emphasizes the shaman's attribute of regaining man's condition before the \"Fall\" out of sacred time: \"The most representative mystical experience of the archaic societies, that of shamanism, betrays the \"Nostalgia for Paradise\", the desire to recover the state of freedom and beatitude before 'the Fall'.\" This concern—which, by itself, is the concern of almost all religious behavior, according to Eliade—manifests itself in specific ways in shamanism.\n\nAccording to Eliade, one of the most common shamanistic themes is the shaman's supposed death and resurrection. This occurs in particular during his initiation. Often, the procedure is supposed to be performed by spirits who dismember the shaman and strip the flesh from his bones, then put him back together and revive him. In more than one way, this death and resurrection represents the shaman's elevation above human nature.\n\nFirst, the shaman dies so that he can rise above human nature on a quite literal level. After he has been dismembered by the initiatory spirits, they often replace his old organs with new, magical ones (the shaman dies to his profane self so that he can rise again as a new, sanctified, being). Second, by being reduced to his bones, the shaman experiences rebirth on a more symbolic level: in many hunting and herding societies, the bone represents the source of life, so reduction to a skeleton \"is equivalent to re-entering the womb of this primordial life, that is, to a complete renewal, a mystical rebirth\". Eliade considers this return to the source of life essentially equivalent to the eternal return.\n\nThird, the shamanistic phenomenon of repeated death and resurrection also represents a transfiguration in other ways. The shaman dies not once but many times: having died during initiation and risen again with new powers, the shaman can send his spirit out of his body on errands; thus, his whole career consists of repeated deaths and resurrections. The shaman's new ability to die and return to life shows that he is no longer bound by the laws of profane time, particularly the law of death: \"the ability to 'die' and come to life again [...] denotes that [the shaman] has surpassed the human condition\".\n\nHaving risen above the human condition, the shaman is not bound by the flow of history. Therefore, he enjoys the conditions of the mythical age. In many myths, humans can speak with animals; and, after their initiations, many shamans claim to be able to communicate with animals. According to Eliade, this is one manifestation of the shaman's return to \"the \"illud tempus\" described to us by the paradisiac myths\".\n\nThe shaman can descend to the underworld or ascend to heaven, often by climbing the World Tree, the cosmic pillar, the sacred ladder, or some other form of the \"axis mundi\". Often, the shaman will ascend to heaven to speak with the High God. Because the gods (particularly the High God, according to Eliade's \"deus otiosus\" concept) were closer to humans during the mythical age, the shaman's easy communication with the High God represents an abolition of history and a return to the mythical age.\n\nBecause of his ability to communicate with the gods and descend to the land of the dead, the shaman frequently functions as a psychopomp and a medicine man.\n\nIn addition to his political essays, the young Mircea Eliade authored others, philosophical in content. Connected with the ideology of Trăirism, they were often prophetic in tone, and saw Eliade being hailed as a herald by various representatives of his generation. When Eliade was 21 years old and publishing his \"Itinerar spiritual\", literary critic Şerban Cioculescu described him as \"the column leader of the spiritually mystical and Orthodox youth.\" Cioculescu discussed his \"impressive erudition\", but argued that it was \"occasionally plethoric, poetically inebriating itself through abuse\". Cioculescu's colleague Perpessicius saw the young author and his generation as marked by \"the specter of war\", a notion he connected to various essays of the 1920s and 30s in which Eliade threatened the world with the verdict that a new conflict was looming (while asking that young people be allowed to manifest their will and fully experience freedom before perishing).\n\nOne of Eliade's noted contributions in this respect was the 1932 \"Soliloquii\" (\"Soliloquies\"), which explored existential philosophy. George Călinescu who saw in it \"an echo of Nae Ionescu's lectures\", traced a parallel with the essays of another of Ionescu's disciples, Emil Cioran, while noting that Cioran's were \"of a more exulted tone and written in the aphoristic form of Kierkegaard\". Călinescu recorded Eliade's rejection of objectivity, citing the author's stated indifference towards any \"naïveté\" or \"contradictions\" that the reader could possibly reproach him, as well as his dismissive thoughts of \"theoretical data\" and mainstream philosophy in general (Eliade saw the latter as \"inert, infertile and pathogenic\"). Eliade thus argued, \"a sincere brain is unassailable, for it denies itself to any relationship with outside truths.\"\n\nThe young writer was however careful to clarify that the existence he took into consideration was not the life of \"instincts and personal idiosyncrasies\", which he believed determined the lives of many humans, but that of a distinct set comprising \"personalities\". He described \"personalities\" as characterized by both \"purpose\" and \"a much more complicated and dangerous alchemy\". This differentiation, George Călinescu believed, echoed Ionescu's metaphor of man, seen as \"the only animal who can fail at living\", and the duck, who \"shall remain a duck no matter what it does\". According to Eliade, the purpose of personalities is infinity: \"consciously and gloriously bringing [existence] to waste, into as many skies as possible, continuously fulfilling and polishing oneself, seeking ascent and not circumference.\"\n\nIn Eliade's view, two roads await man in this process. One is glory, determined by either work or procreation, and the other the asceticism of religion or magic—both, Călinescu believed, where aimed at reaching the absolute, even in those cases where Eliade described the latter as an \"abyssal experience\" into which man may take the plunge. The critic pointed out that the addition of \"a magical solution\" to the options taken into consideration seemed to be Eliade's own original contributions to his mentor's philosophy, and proposed that it may have owed inspiration to Julius Evola and his disciples. He also recorded that Eliade applied this concept to human creation, and specifically to artistic creation, citing him describing the latter as \"a magical joy, the victorious break of the iron circle\" (a reflection of \"imitatio dei\", having salvation for its ultimate goal).\n\nBy profession, Eliade was a historian of religion. However, his scholarly works draw heavily on philosophical and psychological terminology. In addition, they contain a number of philosophical arguments about religion. In particular, Eliade often implies the existence of a universal psychological or spiritual \"essence\" behind all religious phenomena. Because of these arguments, some have accused Eliade of over-generalization and \"essentialism\", or even of promoting a theological agenda under the guise of historical scholarship. However, others argue that Eliade is better understood as a scholar who is willing to openly discuss sacred experience and its consequences.\n\nIn studying religion, Eliade rejects certain \"reductionist\" approaches. Eliade thinks a religious phenomenon cannot be reduced to a product of culture and history. He insists that, although religion involves \"the social man, the economic man, and so forth\", nonetheless \"all these conditioning factors together do not, of themselves, add up to the life of the spirit\".\n\nUsing this anti-reductionist position, Eliade argues against those who accuse him of overgeneralizing, of looking for universals at the expense of particulars. Eliade admits that every religious phenomenon is shaped by the particular culture and history that produced it:\nWhen the Son of God incarnated and became the Christ, he had to speak Aramaic; he could only conduct himself as a Hebrew of his times [...] His religious message, however universal it might be, was conditioned by the past and present history of the Hebrew people. If the Son of God had been born in India, his spoken language would have had to conform itself to the structure of the Indian languages.\n\nHowever, Eliade argues against those he calls \"historicist or existentialist philosophers\" who do not recognize \"man in general\" behind particular men produced by particular situations (Eliade cites Immanuel Kant as the likely forerunner of this kind of \"historicism\"). He adds that human consciousness transcends (is not reducible to) its historical and cultural conditioning, and even suggests the possibility of a \"transconscious\". By this, Eliade does not necessarily mean anything supernatural or mystical: within the \"transconscious\", he places religious motifs, symbols, images, and nostalgias that are supposedly universal and whose causes therefore cannot be reduced to historical and cultural conditioning.\n\nAccording to Eliade, traditional man feels that things \"acquire their reality, their identity, only to the extent of their participation in a transcendent reality\". To traditional man, the profane world is \"meaningless\", and a thing rises out of the profane world only by conforming to an ideal, mythical model.\n\nEliade describes this view of reality as a fundamental part of \"primitive ontology\" (the study of \"existence\" or \"reality\"). Here he sees a similarity with the philosophy of Plato, who believed that physical phenomena are pale and transient imitations of eternal models or \"Forms\" (\"see Theory of forms\"). He argued:\nPlato could be regarded as the outstanding philosopher of 'primitive mentality,' that is, as the thinker who succeeded in giving philosophic currency and validity to the modes of life and behavior of archaic humanity.\n\nEliade thinks the Platonic \"Theory of forms\" is \"primitive ontology\" persisting in Greek philosophy. He claims that Platonism is the \"most fully elaborated\" version of this primitive ontology.\n\nIn \"The Structure of Religious Knowing: Encountering the Sacred in Eliade and Lonergan\", John Daniel Dadosky argues that, by making this statement, Eliade was acknowledging \"indebtedness to Greek philosophy in general, and to Plato's theory of forms specifically, for his own theory of archetypes and repetition\". However, Dadosky also states that \"one should be cautious when trying to assess Eliade's indebtedness to Plato\". Dadosky quotes Robert Segal, a professor of religion, who draws a distinction between Platonism and Eliade's \"primitive ontology\": for Eliade, the ideal models are patterns that a person or object may or may not imitate; for Plato, there is a Form for everything, and everything imitates a Form by the very fact that it exists.\n\nBehind the diverse cultural forms of different religions, Eliade proposes a universal: traditional man, he claims, \"always believes that there is an absolute reality, \"the sacred\", which transcends this world but manifests itself in this world, thereby sanctifying it and making it real\". Furthermore, traditional man's behavior gains purpose and meaning through the Sacred: \"By imitating divine behavior, man puts and keeps himself close to the gods—that is, in the real and the significant.\"\n\nAccording to Eliade, \"modern nonreligious man assumes a new existential situation\". For traditional man, historical events gain significance by imitating sacred, transcendent events. In contrast, nonreligious man lacks sacred models for how history or human behavior should be, so he must decide on his own how history should proceed—he \"regards himself solely as the subject and agent of history, and refuses all appeal to transcendence\". From the standpoint of religious thought, the world has an objective purpose established by mythical events, to which man should conform himself: \"Myth teaches [religious man] the primordial 'stories' that have constituted him existentially.\" From the standpoint of secular thought, any purpose must be invented and imposed on the world by man. Because of this new \"existential situation\", Eliade argues, the Sacred becomes the primary obstacle to nonreligious man's \"freedom\". In viewing himself as the proper maker of history, nonreligious man resists all notions of an externally (for instance, divinely) imposed order or model he must obey: modern man \"\"makes himself\", and he only makes himself completely in proportion as he desacralizes himself and the world. [...] He will not truly be free until he has killed the last god\".\n\nEliade says that secular man cannot escape his bondage to religious thought. By its very nature, secularism depends on religion for its sense of identity: by resisting sacred models, by insisting that man make history on his own, secular man identifies himself only through opposition to religious thought: \"He [secular man] recognizes himself in proportion as he 'frees' and 'purifies' himself from the 'superstitions' of his ancestors.\" Furthermore, modern man \"still retains a large stock of camouflaged myths and degenerated rituals\". For example, modern social events still have similarities to traditional initiation rituals, and modern novels feature mythical motifs and themes. Finally, secular man still participates in something like the eternal return: by reading modern literature, \"modern man succeeds in obtaining an 'escape from time' comparable to the 'emergence from time' effected by myths\".\n\nEliade sees traces of religious thought even in secular academia. He thinks modern scientists are motivated by the religious desire to return to the sacred time of origins:\nOne could say that the anxious search for the origins of Life and Mind; the fascination in the 'mysteries of Nature'; the urge to penetrate and decipher the inner structure of Matter—all these longings and drives denote a sort of nostalgia for the primordial, for the original universal \"matrix\". Matter, Substance, represents the \"absolute origin\", the beginning of all things.\nEliade believes the rise of materialism in the 19th century forced the religious nostalgia for \"origins\" to express itself in science. He mentions his own field of History of Religions as one of the fields that was obsessed with origins during the 19th century:\nThe new discipline of History of Religions developed rapidly in this cultural context. And, of course, it followed a like pattern: the positivistic approach to the facts and the search for origins, for the very beginning of religion.\nAll Western historiography was during that time obsessed with the quest of \"origins\". [...] This search for the origins of human institutions and cultural creations prolongs and completes the naturalist's quest for the origin of species, the biologist's dream of grasping the origin of life, the geologist's and the astronomer's endeavor to understand the origin of the Earth and the Universe. From a psychological point of view, one can decipher here the same nostalgia for the 'primordial' and the 'original'.\n\nIn some of his writings, Eliade describes modern political ideologies as secularized mythology. According to Eliade, Marxism \"takes up and carries on one of the great eschatological myths of the Middle Eastern and Mediterranean world, namely: the redemptive part to be played by the Just (the 'elect', the 'anointed', the 'innocent', the 'missioners', in our own days the proletariat), whose sufferings are invoked to change the ontological status of the world.\" Eliade sees the widespread myth of the Golden Age, \"which, according to a number of traditions, lies at the beginning and the end of History\", as the \"precedent\" for Karl Marx's vision of a classless society. Finally, he sees Marx's belief in the final triumph of the good (the proletariat) over the evil (the bourgeoisie) as \"a truly messianic Judaeo-Christian ideology\". Despite Marx's hostility toward religion, Eliade implies, his ideology works within a conceptual framework inherited from religious mythology.\n\nLikewise, Eliade notes that Nazism involved a pseudo-pagan mysticism based on ancient Germanic religion. He suggests that the differences between the Nazis' pseudo-Germanic mythology and Marx's pseudo-Judaeo-Christian mythology explain their differing success:\nIn comparison with the vigorous optimism of the communist myth, the mythology propagated by the national socialists seems particularly inept; and this is not only because of the limitations of the racial myth (how could one imagine that the rest of Europe would voluntarily accept submission to the master-race?), but above all because of the fundamental pessimism of the Germanic mythology. [...] For the eschaton prophesied and expected by the ancient Germans was the ragnarok—that is, a catastrophic end of the world.\n\nAccording to Eliade, modern man displays \"traces\" of \"mythological behavior\" because he intensely needs sacred time and the eternal return. Despite modern man's claims to be nonreligious, he ultimately cannot find value in the linear progression of historical events; even modern man feels the \"terror of history\": \"Here too [...] there is always the struggle against Time, the hope to be freed from the weight of 'dead Time,' of the Time that crushes and kills.\"\n\nAccording to Eliade, this \"terror of history\" becomes especially acute when violent and threatening historical events confront modern man—the mere fact that a terrible event has happened, that it is part of history, is of little comfort to those who suffer from it. Eliade asks rhetorically how modern man can \"tolerate the catastrophes and horrors of history—from collective deportations and massacres to atomic bombings—if beyond them he can glimpse no sign, no transhistorical meaning\".\n\nEliade indicates that, if repetitions of mythical events provided sacred value and meaning for history in the eyes of ancient man, modern man has denied the Sacred and must therefore invent value and purpose on his own. Without the Sacred to confer an absolute, objective value upon historical events, modern man is left with \"a relativistic or nihilistic view of history\" and a resulting \"spiritual aridity\". In chapter 4 (\"The Terror of History\") of \"The Myth of the Eternal Return\" and chapter 9 (\"Religious Symbolism and the Modern Man's Anxiety\") of \"Myths, Dreams, and Mysteries\", Eliade argues at length that the rejection of religious thought is a primary cause of modern man's anxieties.\n\nEliade argues that modern man may escape the \"Terror of history\" by learning from traditional cultures. For example, Eliade thinks Hinduism has advice for modern Westerners. According to many branches of Hinduism, the world of historical time is illusory, and the only absolute reality is the immortal soul or \"atman\" within man. According to Eliade, Hindus thus escape the terror of history by refusing to see historical time as the true reality.\n\nEliade notes that a Western or Continental philosopher might feel suspicious toward this Hindu view of history:\nOne can easily guess what a European historical and existentialist philosopher might reply [...] You ask me, he would say, to 'die to History'; but man is not, and he \"cannot be\" anything else but History, for his very essence is temporality. You are asking me, then, to give up my authentic existence and to take refuge in an abstraction, in pure Being, in the \"atman\": I am to sacrifice my dignity as a creator of History in order to live an a-historic, inauthentic existence, empty of all human content. Well, I prefer to put up with my anxiety: at least, it cannot deprive me of a certain heroic grandeur, that of becoming conscious of, and accepting, the human condition.\n\nHowever, Eliade argues that the Hindu approach to history does not necessarily lead to a rejection of history. On the contrary, in Hinduism historical human existence is not the \"absurdity\" that many Continental philosophers see it as. According to Hinduism, history is a divine creation, and one may live contentedly within it as long as one maintains a certain degree of detachment from it: \"One is devoured by Time, by History, not because one lives in them, but because one thinks them \"real\" and, in consequence, one forgets or undervalues eternity.\"\n\nFurthermore, Eliade argues that Westerners can learn from non-Western cultures to see something besides absurdity in suffering and death. Traditional cultures see suffering and death as a rite of passage. In fact, their initiation rituals often involve a symbolic death and resurrection, or symbolic ordeals followed by relief. Thus, Eliade argues, modern man can learn to see his historical ordeals, even death, as necessary initiations into the next stage of one's existence.\n\nEliade even suggests that traditional thought offers relief from the vague anxiety caused by \"our obscure presentiment of the end of the world, or more exactly of the end of \"our\" world, our \"own\" civilization\". Many traditional cultures have myths about the end of their world or civilization; however, these myths do not succeed \"in paralysing either Life or Culture\". These traditional cultures emphasize cyclic time and, therefore, the inevitable rise of a new world or civilization on the ruins of the old. Thus, they feel comforted even in contemplating the end times.\n\nEliade argues that a Western spiritual rebirth can happen within the framework of Western spiritual traditions. However, he says, to start this rebirth, Westerners may need to be stimulated by ideas from non-Western cultures. In his \"Myths, Dreams, and Mysteries\", Eliade claims that a \"genuine encounter\" between cultures \"might well constitute the point of departure for a new humanism, upon a world scale\".\n\nMircea Eliade sees the Abrahamic religions as a turning point between the ancient, cyclic view of time and the modern, linear view of time, noting that, in their case, sacred events are not limited to a far-off primordial age, but continue throughout history: \"time is no longer [only] the circular Time of the Eternal Return; it has become linear and irreversible Time\". He thus sees in Christianity the ultimate example of a religion embracing linear, historical time. When God is born as a man, into the stream of history, \"all history becomes a theophany\". According to Eliade, \"Christianity strives to \"save\" history\". In Christianity, the Sacred enters a human being (Christ) to save humans, but it also enters history to \"save\" history and turn otherwise ordinary, historical events into something \"capable of transmitting a trans-historical message\".\n\nFrom Eliade's perspective, Christianity's \"trans-historical message\" may be the most important help that modern man could have in confronting the terror of history. In his book \"Mito\" (\"Myth\"), Italian researcher Furio Jesi argues that Eliade denies man the position of a true protagonist in history: for Eliade, true human experience lies not in intellectually \"making history\", but in man's experiences of joy and grief. Thus, from Eliade's perspective, the Christ story becomes the perfect myth for modern man. In Christianity, God willingly entered historical time by being born as Christ, and accepted the suffering that followed. By identifying with Christ, modern man can learn to confront painful historical events. Ultimately, according to Jesi, Eliade sees Christianity as the only religion that can save man from the \"Terror of history\".\n\nIn Eliade's view, traditional man sees time as an endless repetition of mythical archetypes. In contrast, modern man has abandoned mythical archetypes and entered linear, historical time—in this context, unlike many other religions, Christianity attributes value to historical time. Thus, Eliade concludes, \"Christianity incontestably proves to be the religion of 'fallen man'\", of modern man who has lost \"the paradise of archetypes and repetition\".\n\nIn analyzing the similarities between the \"mythologists\" Eliade, Joseph Campbell and Carl Jung, Robert Ellwood concluded that the three modern mythologists, all of whom believed that myths reveal \"timeless truth\", fulfilled the role \"gnostics\" had in antiquity. The diverse religious movements covered by the term \"gnosticism\" share the basic doctrines that the surrounding world is fundamentally evil or inhospitable, that we are trapped in the world through no fault of our own, and that we can be saved from the world only through secret knowledge (\"gnosis\"). Ellwood claimed that the three mythologists were \"modern gnostics through and through\", remarking,\nWhether in Augustan Rome or modern Europe, democracy all too easily gave way to totalitarianism, technology was as readily used for battle as for comfort, and immense wealth lay alongside abysmal poverty. [...] Gnostics past and present sought answers not in the course of outward human events, but in knowledge of the world's beginning, of what lies above and beyond the world, and of the secret places of the human soul. To all this the mythologists spoke, and they acquired large and loyal followings.\n\nAccording to Ellwood, the mythologists believed in gnosticism's basic doctrines (even if in a secularized form). Ellwood also believes that Romanticism, which stimulated the modern study of mythology, strongly influenced the mythologists. Because Romantics stress that emotion and imagination have the same dignity as reason, Ellwood argues, they tend to think political truth \"is known less by rational considerations than by its capacity to fire the passions\" and, therefore, that political truth is \"very apt to be found [...] in the distant past\".\n\nAs modern gnostics, Ellwood argues, the three mythologists felt alienated from the surrounding modern world. As scholars, they knew of primordial societies that had operated differently from modern ones. And as people influenced by Romanticism, they saw myths as a saving \"gnosis\" that offered \"avenues of eternal return to simpler primordial ages when the values that rule the world were forged\".\n\nIn addition, Ellwood identifies Eliade's personal sense of nostalgia as a source for his interest in, or even his theories about, traditional societies. He cites Eliade himself claiming to desire an \"eternal return\" like that by which traditional man returns to the mythical paradise: \"My essential preoccupation is precisely the means of escaping History, of saving myself through symbol, myth, rite, archetypes\".\n\nIn Ellwood's view, Eliade's nostalgia was only enhanced by his exile from Romania: \"In later years Eliade felt about his own Romanian past as did primal folk about mythic time. He was drawn back to it, yet he knew he could not live there, and that all was not well with it.\" He suggests that this nostalgia, along with Eliade's sense that \"exile is among the profoundest metaphors for all human life\", influenced Eliade's theories. Ellwood sees evidence of this in Eliade's concept of the \"Terror of history\" from which modern man is no longer shielded. In this concept, Ellwood sees an \"element of nostalgia\" for earlier times \"when the sacred was strong and the terror of history had barely raised its head\".\n\nEliade cites a wide variety of myths and rituals to support his theories. However, he has been accused of making over-generalizations: many scholars think he lacks sufficient evidence to put forth his ideas as universal, or even general, principles of religious thought. According to one scholar, \"Eliade may have been the most popular and influential contemporary historian of religion\", but \"many, if not most, specialists in anthropology, sociology, and even history of religions have either ignored or quickly dismissed\" Eliade's works.\n\nThe classicist G. S. Kirk criticizes Eliade's insistence that Australian Aborigines and ancient Mesopotamians had concepts of \"being\", \"non-being\", \"real\", and \"becoming\", although they lacked words for them. Kirk also believes that Eliade overextends his theories: for example, Eliade claims that the modern myth of the \"noble savage\" results from the religious tendency to idealize the primordial, mythical age. According to Kirk, \"such extravagances, together with a marked repetitiousness, have made Eliade unpopular with many anthropologists and sociologists\". In Kirk's view, Eliade derived his theory of eternal return from the functions of Australian Aboriginal mythology and then proceeded to apply the theory to other mythologies to which it did not apply. For example, Kirk argues that the eternal return does not accurately describe the functions of Native American or Greek mythology. Kirk concludes, \"Eliade's idea is a valuable perception about certain myths, not a guide to the proper understanding of all of them\".\n\nEven Wendy Doniger, Eliade's successor at the University of Chicago, claims (in an introduction to Eliade's own \"Shamanism\") that the eternal return does not apply to all myths and rituals, although it may apply to many of them. However, although Doniger agrees that Eliade made over-generalizations, she notes that his willingness to \"argue boldly for universals\" allowed him to see patterns \"that spanned the entire globe and the whole of human history\". Whether they were true or not, she argues, Eliade's theories are still useful \"as starting points for the comparative study of religion\". She also argues that Eliade's theories have been able to accommodate \"new data to which Eliade did not have access\".\n\nSeveral researchers have criticized Eliade's work as having no empirical support. Thus, he is said to have \"failed to provide an adequate methodology for the history of religions and to establish this discipline as an empirical science\", though the same critics admit that \"the history of religions should not aim at being an empirical science anyway\". Specifically, his claim that the sacred is a structure of human consciousness is distrusted as not being empirically provable: \"no one has yet turned up the basic category \"sacred\"\". Also, there has been mention of his tendency to ignore the social aspects of religion. Anthropologist Alice Kehoe is highly critical of Eliade's work on Shamanism, namely because he was not an anthropologist but a historian. She contends that Eliade never did any field work or contacted any indigenous groups that practiced Shamanism, and that his work was synthesized from various sources without being supported by direct field research.\n\nIn contrast, Professor Kees W. Bolle of the University of California, Los Angeles argues that \"Professor Eliade's approach, in all his works, is empirical\": Bolle sets Eliade apart for what he sees as Eliade's particularly close \"attention to the various particular motifs\" of different myths. French researcher Daniel Dubuisson places doubt on Eliade's scholarship and its scientific character, citing the Romanian academic's alleged refusal to accept the treatment of religions in their historical and cultural context, and proposing that Eliade's notion of \"hierophany\" refers to the actual existence of a supernatural level.\n\nRonald Inden, a historian of India and University of Chicago professor, criticized Mircea Eliade, alongside other intellectual figures (Carl Jung and Joseph Campbell among them), for encouraging a \"romantic view\" of Hinduism. He argued that their approach to the subject relied mainly on an Orientalist approach, and made Hinduism seem like \"a private realm of the imagination and the religious which modern, Western man lacks but needs.\"\n\nAlthough his scholarly work was never subordinated to his early political beliefs, the school of thought he was associated with in interwar Romania, namely Trăirism, as well as the works of Julius Evola he continued to draw inspiration from, have thematic links to fascism. Writer and academic Marcel Tolcea has argued that, through Evola's particular interpretation of Guénon's works, Eliade kept a traceable connection with far right ideologies in his academic contributions. Daniel Dubuisson singled out Eliade's concept of \"homo religiosus\" as a reflection of fascist elitism, and argued that the Romanian scholar's views of Judaism and the Old Testament, which depicted Hebrews as the enemies of an ancient cosmic religion, were ultimately the preservation of an antisemitic discourse.\n\nA piece authored in 1930 saw Eliade defining Julius Evola as a great thinker and offering praise to the controversial intellectuals Oswald Spengler, Arthur de Gobineau, Houston Stewart Chamberlain and the Nazi ideologue Alfred Rosenberg. Evola, who continued to defend the core principles of mystical fascism, once protested to Eliade about the latter's failure to cite him and Guénon. Eliade replied that his works were written for a contemporary public, and not to initiates of esoteric circles. After the 1960s, he, together with Evola, Louis Rougier, and other intellectuals, offered support to Alain de Benoist's controversial \"Groupement de recherche et d'études pour la civilisation européenne\", part of the \"Nouvelle Droite\" intellectual trend.\n\nNotably, Eliade was also preoccupied with the cult of Zalmoxis and its supposed monotheism. This, like his conclusion that Romanization had been superficial inside Roman Dacia, was a view celebrated by contemporary partisans of Protochronist nationalism. According to historian Sorin Antohi, Eliade may have actually encouraged Protochronists such as Edgar Papu to carry out research which resulted in the claim that medieval Romanians had anticipated the Renaissance.\n\nIn his study of Eliade, Jung, and Campbell, Ellwood also discusses the connection between academic theories and controversial political involvements, noting that all three mythologists have been accused of reactionary political positions. Ellwood notes the obvious parallel between the conservatism of myth, which speaks of a primordial golden age, and the conservatism of far right politics. However, Ellwood argues that the explanation is more complex than that. Wherever their political sympathies may have sometimes been, he claims, the three mythologists were often \"apolitical if not antipolitical, scorning any this-worldly salvation\". Moreover, the connection between mythology and politics differs for each of the mythologists in question: in Eliade's case, Ellwood believes, a strong sense of nostalgia (\"for childhood, for historical times past, for cosmic religion, for paradise\"), influenced not only the scholar's academic interests, but also his political views.\n\nBecause Eliade stayed out of politics during his later life, Ellwood tries to extract an implicit political philosophy from Eliade's scholarly works. Ellwood argues that the later Eliade's nostalgia for ancient traditions did not make him a political reactionary, even a quiet one. He concludes that the later Eliade was, in fact, a \"radical modernist\". According to Ellwood,\nThose who see Eliade's fascination with the primordial as merely reactionary in the ordinary political or religious sense of the word do not understand the mature Eliade in a sufficiently radical way. [...] Tradition was not for him exactly Burkean 'prescription' or sacred trust to be kept alive generation after generation, for Eliade was fully aware that tradition, like men and nations, lives only by changing and even occultation. The tack is not to try fruitlessly to keep it unchanging, but to discover where it is hiding.\n\nAccording to Eliade, religious elements survive in secular culture, but in new, \"camouflaged\" forms. Thus, Ellwood believes that the later Eliade probably thought modern man should preserve elements of the past, but should not try to restore their original form through reactionary politics. He suspects that Eliade would have favored \"a minimal rather than a maximalist state\" that would allow personal spiritual transformation without enforcing it.\n\nMany scholars have accused Eliade of \"essentialism\", a type of over-generalization in which one incorrectly attributes a common \"essence\" to a whole group—in this case, all \"religious\" or \"traditional\" societies. Furthermore, some see a connection between Eliade's essentialism with regard to religion and fascist essentialism with regard to races and nations. To Ellwood, this connection \"seems rather tortured, in the end amounting to little more than an \"ad hominem\" argument which attempts to tar Eliade's entire [scholarly] work with the ill-repute all decent people feel for storm troopers and the Iron Guard\". However, Ellwood admits that common tendencies in \"mythological thinking\" may have caused Eliade, as well as Jung and Campbell, to view certain groups in an \"essentialist\" way, and that this may explain their purported antisemitism: \"A tendency to think in generic terms of peoples, races, religions, or parties, which as we shall see is undoubtedly the profoundest flaw in mythological thinking, including that of such modern mythologists as our three, can connect with nascent anti-Semitism, or the connection can be the other way.\"\n\nMany of Mircea Eliade's literary works, in particular his earliest ones, are noted for their eroticism and their focus on subjective experience. Modernist in style, they have drawn comparisons to the contemporary writings of Mihail Sebastian, I. Valerian, and Ion Biberi. Alongside Honoré de Balzac and Giovanni Papini, his literary passions included Aldous Huxley and Miguel de Unamuno, as well as André Gide. Eliade also read with interest the prose of Romain Rolland, Henrik Ibsen, and the Enlightenment thinkers Voltaire and Denis Diderot. As a youth, he read the works of Romanian authors such as Liviu Rebreanu and Panait Istrati; initially, he was also interested in Ionel Teodoreanu's prose works, but later rejected them and criticized their author.\n\nInvestigating the works' main characteristics, George Călinescu stressed that Eliade owed much of his style to the direct influence of French author André Gide, concluding that, alongside Camil Petrescu and a few others, Eliade was among Gide's leading disciples in Romanian literature. He commented that, like Gide, Eliade believed that the artist \"does not take a stand, but experiences good and evil while setting himself free from both, maintaining an intact curiosity.\" A specific aspect of this focus on experience is sexual experimentation—Călinescu notes that Eliade's fiction works tend to depict a male figure \"possessing all practicable women in [a given] family\". He also considered that, as a rule, Eliade depicts woman as \"a basic means for a sexual experience and repudiated with harsh egotism.\"\n\nFor Călinescu, such a perspective on life culminated in \"banality\", leaving authors gripped by the \"cult of the self\" and \"a contempt for literature\". Polemically, Călinescu proposed that Mircea Eliade's supposed focus on \"aggressive youth\" served to instill his interwar Romanian writers with the idea that they had a common destiny as a generation apart. He also commented that, when set in Romania, Mircea Eliade's stories lacked the \"perception of immediate reality\", and, analyzing the non-traditional names the writer tended to ascribe to his Romanian characters, that they did not depict \"specificity\". Additionally, in Călinescu's view, Eliade's stories were often \"sensationalist compositions of the illustrated magazine kind.\" Mircea Eliade's assessment of his own pre-1940 literary contributions oscillated between expressions of pride and the bitter verdict that they were written for \"an audience of little ladies and high school students\".\n\nA secondary but unifying feature present in most of Eliade's stories is their setting, a magical and part-fictional Bucharest. In part, they also serve to illustrate or allude to Eliade's own research in the field of religion, as well as to the concepts he introduced. Thus, commentators such as Matei Călinescu and Carmen Mușat have also argued that a main characteristic of Eliade's fantasy prose is a substitution between the supernatural and the mundane: in this interpretation, Eliade turns the daily world into an incomprehensible place, while the intrusive supernatural aspect promises to offer the sense of life. The notion was in turn linked to Eliade's own thoughts on transcendence, and in particular his idea that, once \"camouflaged\" in life or history, miracles become \"unrecognizable\".\n\nOne of Eliade's earliest fiction writings, the controversial first-person narrative \"Isabel şi apele diavolului\", focused on the figure of a young and brilliant academic, whose self-declared fear is that of \"being common\". The hero's experience is recorded in \"notebooks\", which are compiled to form the actual narrative, and which serve to record his unusual, mostly sexual, experiences in British India—the narrator describes himself as dominated by \"a devilish indifference\" towards \"all things having to do with art or metaphysics\", focusing instead on eroticism. The guest of a pastor, the scholar ponders sexual adventures with his host's wife, servant girl, and finally with his daughter Isabel. Persuading the pastor's adolescent son to run away from home, becoming the sexual initiator of a twelve-year-old girl and the lover of a much older woman, the character also attempts to seduce Isabel. Although she falls in love, the young woman does not give in to his pressures, but eventually allows herself to be abused and impregnated by another character, letting the object of her affection know that she had thought of him all along.\n\nOne of Eliade's best-known works, the novel \"Maitreyi\", dwells on Eliade's own experience, comprising camouflaged details of his relationships with Surendranath Dasgupta and Dasgupta's daughter Maitreyi Devi. The main character, Allan, is an Englishman who visits the Indian engineer Narendra Sen and courts his daughter, herself known as Maitreyi. The narrative is again built on \"notebooks\" to which Allan adds his comments. This technique Călinescu describes as \"boring\", and its result \"cynical\".\n\nAllan himself stands alongside Eliade's male characters, whose focus is on action, sensation and experience—his chaste contacts with Maitreyi are encouraged by Sen, who hopes for a marriage which is nonetheless abhorred by his would-be European son-in-law. Instead, Allan is fascinated to discover Maitreyi's Oriental version of Platonic love, marked by spiritual attachment more than by physical contact. However, their affair soon after turns physical, and she decides to attach herself to Allan as one would to a husband, in what is an informal and intimate wedding ceremony (which sees her vowing her love and invoking an earth goddess as the seal of union). Upon discovering this, Narendra Sen becomes enraged, rejecting their guest and keeping Maitreyi in confinement. As a result, his daughter decides to have intercourse with a lowly stranger, becoming pregnant in the hope that her parents would consequently allow her to marry her lover. However, the story also casts doubt on her earlier actions, reflecting rumors that Maitreyi was not a virgin at the time she and Allan first met, which also seems to expose her father as a hypocrite.\n\nGeorge Călinescu objected to the narrative, arguing that both the physical affair and the father's rage seemed artificial, while commenting that Eliade placing doubt on his Indian characters' honesty had turned the plot into a piece of \"ethnological humor\". Noting that the work developed on a classical theme of miscegenation, which recalled the prose of François-René de Chateaubriand and Pierre Loti, the critic proposed that its main merit was in introducing the exotic novel to local literature.\n\nMircea Eliade's other early works include \"Șantier\" (\"Building Site\"), a part-novel, part-diary account of his Indian sojourn. George Călinescu objected to its \"monotony\", and, noting that it featured a set of \"intelligent observations\", criticized the \"banality of its ideological conversations.\" \"Șantier\" was also noted for its portrayal of drug addiction and intoxication with opium, both of which could have referred to Eliade's actual travel experience.\n\nIn his earliest novel, titled \"Novel of the Nearsighted Adolescent\" and written in the first person, Eliade depicts his experience through high school. It is proof of the influence exercised on him by the literature of Giovanni Papini, and in particular by Papini's story \"Un uomo finito\". Each of its chapters reads like an independent novella, and, in all, the work experiments with the limits traced between novel and diary. Literary critic Eugen Simion called it \"the most valuable\" among Eliade's earliest literary attempts, but noted that, being \"ambitious\", the book had failed to achieve \"an aesthetically satisfactory format\". According to Simion, the innovative intent of the \"Novel...\" was provided by its technique, by its goal of providing authenticity in depicting experiences, and by its insight into adolescent psychology. The novel notably shows its narrator practicing self-flagellation.\n\nEliade's 1934 novel \"Întoarcerea din rai\" (\"Return from Paradise\") centers on Pavel Anicet, a young man who seeks knowledge through what Călinescu defined as \"sexual excess\". His search leaves him with a reduced sensitivity: right after being confronted with his father's death, Anicet breaks out in tears only after sitting through an entire dinner. The other characters, standing for Eliade's generation, all seek knowledge through violence or retreat from the world—nonetheless, unlike Anicet, they ultimately fail at imposing rigors upon themselves. Pavel himself eventually abandons his belief in sex as a means for enlightenment, and commits suicide in hopes of reaching the level of primordial unity. The solution, George Călinescu noted, mirrored the strange murder in Gide's \"Lafcadio's Adventures\". Eliade himself indicated that the book dealt with the \"loss of the beatitude, illusions, and optimism that had dominated the first twenty years of 'Greater Romania'.\" Robert Ellwood connected the work to Eliade's recurring sense of loss in respect to the \"atmosphere of euphoria and faith\" of his adolescence. Călinescu criticizes \"Întoarcerea din rai\", describing its dialog sequences as \"awkward\", its narrative as \"void\", and its artistic interest as \"non-existent\", proposing that the reader could however find it relevant as the \"document of a mentality\".\n\nThe lengthy novel \"Huliganii\" (\"The Hooligans\") is intended as the fresco of a family, and, through it, that of an entire generation. The book's main protagonist, Petru Anicet, is a composer who places value in experiments; other characters include Dragu, who considers \"a hooligan's experience\" as \"the only fertile debut into life\", and the totalitarian Alexandru Pleşa, who is on the search for \"the heroic life\" by enlisting youth in \"perfect regiments, equally intoxicated by a collective myth.\" Călinescu thought that the young male characters all owed inspiration to Fyodor Dostoevsky's Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov (\"see Crime and Punishment\"). Anicet, who partly shares Pleșa's vision for a collective experiment, is also prone to sexual adventures, and seduces the women of the Lecca family (who have hired him as a piano teacher). Romanian-born novelist Norman Manea called Anicet's experiment: \"the paraded defiance of bourgeois conventions, in which venereal disease and lubricity dwell together.\" In one episode of the book, Anicet convinces Anișoara Lecca to gratuitously steal from her parents—an outrage which leads her mother to moral decay and, eventually, to suicide. George Călinescu criticized the book for inconsistencies and \"excesses in Dostoyevskianism\", but noted that the Lecca family portrayal was \"suggestive\", and that the dramatic scenes were written with \"a remarkable poetic calm.\"\n\nThe novel \"Marriage in Heaven\" depicts the correspondence between two male friends, an artist and a common man, who complain to each other about their failures in love: the former complains about a lover who wanted his children when he did not, while the other recalls being abandoned by a woman who, despite his intentions, did not want to become pregnant by him. Eliade lets the reader understand that they are in fact talking about the same woman.\n\nMircea Eliade's earliest works, most of which were published at later stages, belong to the fantasy genre. One of the first such literary exercises to be printed, the 1921 \"Cum am găsit piatra filosofală\", showed its adolescent author's interest in themes that he was to explore throughout his career, in particular esotericism and alchemy. Written in the first person, it depicts an experiment which, for a moment, seems to be the discovery of the philosophers' stone. These early writings also include two sketches for novels: \"Minunata călătorie a celor cinci cărăbuși in țara furnicilor roșii\" (\"The Wonderful Journey of the Five Beetles into the Land of the Red Ants\") and \"Memoriile unui soldat de plumb\" (\"The Memoirs of a Lead Soldier\"). In the former, a company of beetle spies is sent among the red ants—their travel offers a setting for satirical commentary. Eliade himself explained that \"Memoriile unui soldat de plumb\" was an ambitious project, designed as a fresco to include the birth of the Universe, abiogenesis, human evolution, and the entire world history.\n\nEliade's fantasy novel \"Domnișoara Christina\", was, on its own, the topic of a scandal. The novel deals with the fate of an eccentric family, the Moscus, who are haunted by the ghost of a murdered young woman, known as Christina. The apparition shares characteristics with vampires and with \"strigoi\": she is believed to be drinking the blood of cattle and that of a young family member. The young man Egor becomes the object of Christina's desire, and is shown to have intercourse with her. Noting that the plot and setting reminded one of horror fiction works by the German author Hanns Heinz Ewers, and defending \"Domnişoara Christina\" in front of harsher criticism, Călinescu nonetheless argued that the \"international environment\" in which it took place was \"upsetting\". He also depicted the plot as focused on \"major impurity\", summarizing the story's references to necrophilia, menstrual fetish and ephebophilia.\n\nEliade's short story \"Șarpele\" (\"The Snake\") was described by George Călinescu as \"hermetic\". While on a trip to the forest, several persons witness a feat of magic performed by the male character Andronic, who summons a snake from the bottom of a river and places it on an island. At the end of the story, Andronic and the female character Dorina are found on the island, naked and locked in a sensual embrace. Călinescu saw the piece as an allusion to Gnosticism, to the Kabbalah, and to Babylonian mythology, while linking the snake to the Greek mythological figure and major serpent symbol Ophion. He was however dissatisfied with this introduction of iconic images, describing it as \"languishing\".\n\nThe short story \"Un om mare\" (\"A Big Man\"), which Eliade authored during his stay in Portugal, shows a common person, the engineer Cucoanes, who grows steadily and uncontrollably, reaching immense proportions and ultimately disappearing into the wilderness of the Bucegi Mountains. Eliade himself referenced the story and Aldous Huxley's experiments in the same section of his private notes, a matter which allowed Matei Călinescu to propose that \"Un om mare\" was a direct product of its author's experience with drugs. The same commentator, who deemed \"Un om mare\" \"perhaps Eliade's most memorable short story\", connected it with the \"uriași\" characters present in Romanian folklore.\n\nEliade reinterpreted the Greek mythological figure Iphigeneia in his eponymous 1941 play. Here, the maiden falls in love with Achilles, and accepts to be sacrificed on the pyre as a means to ensure both her lover's happiness (as predicted by an oracle) and her father Agamemnon's victory in the Trojan War. Discussing the association Iphigenia's character makes between love and death, Romanian theater critic Radu Albala noted that it was a possible echo of \"Meşterul Manole\" legend, in which a builder of the Curtea de Argeș Monastery has to sacrifice his wife in exchange for permission to complete work. In contrast with early renditions of the myth by authors such as Euripides and Jean Racine, Eliade's version ends with the sacrifice being carried out in full.\n\nIn addition to his fiction, the exiled Eliade authored several volumes of memoirs and diaries and travel writings. They were published sporadically, and covered various stages of his life. One of the earliest such pieces was \"India\", grouping accounts of the travels he made through the Indian subcontinent. Writing for the Spanish journal \"La Vanguardia\", commentator Sergio Vila-Sanjuán described the first volume of Eliade's \"Autobiography\" (covering the years 1907 to 1937) as \"a great book\", while noting that the other main volume was \"more conventional and insincere.\" In Vila-Sanjuán's view, the texts reveal Mircea Eliade himself as \"a Dostoyevskyian character\", as well as \"an accomplished person, a Goethian figure\".\n\nA work that drew particular interest was his \"Jurnal portughez\" (\"Portuguese Diary\"), completed during his stay in Lisbon and published only after its author's death. A portion of it dealing with his stay in Romania is believed to have been lost. The travels to Spain, partly recorded in \"Jurnal portughez\", also led to a separate volume, \"Jurnal cordobez\" (\"Cordoban Diary\"), which Eliade compiled from various independent notebooks. \"Jurnal portughez\" shows Eliade coping with clinical depression and political crisis, and has been described by Andrei Oișteanu as \"an overwhelming [read], through the immense suffering it exhales.\" Literary historian Paul Cernat argued that part of the volume is \"a masterpiece of its time\", while concluding that some 700 pages were passable for the \"among others\" section of Eliade's bibliography. Noting that the book featured parts where Eliade spoke of himself in eulogistic terms, notably comparing himself favorably to Goethe and Romania's national poet Mihai Eminescu, Cernat accused the writer of \"egolatry\", and deduced that Eliade was \"ready to step over dead bodies for the sake of his spiritual 'mission' \". The same passages led philosopher and journalist Cătălin Avramescu to argue that Eliade's behavior was evidence of \"megalomania\".\n\nEliade also wrote various essays of literary criticism. In his youth, alongside his study on Julius Evola, he published essays which introduced the Romanian public to representatives of modern Spanish literature and philosophy, among them Adolfo Bonilla San Martín, Miguel de Unamuno, José Ortega y Gasset, Eugeni d'Ors, Vicente Blasco Ibáñez and Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo. He also wrote an essay on the works of James Joyce, connecting it with his own theories on the eternal return (\"[Joyce's literature is] saturated with nostalgia for the myth of the eternal repetition\"), and deeming Joyce himself an anti-historicist \"archaic\" figure among the modernists. In the 1930s, Eliade edited the collected works of Romanian historian Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu.\n\nM. L. Ricketts discovered and translated into English a previously unpublished play written by Mircea Eliade in Paris 1946 \"Aventura Spirituală\" (\"A Spiritual Adventure\"). It was published by for the first time in \"Theory in Action\" -the journal of the Transformative Studies Institute, vol. 5 (2012): 2–58.\n\n\nThe early years in Eliade's public career show him to have been highly tolerant of Jews in general, and of the Jewish minority in Romania in particular. His early condemnation of Nazi antisemitic policies was accompanied by his caution and moderation in regard to Nae Ionescu's various anti-Jewish attacks.\n\nLate in the 1930s, Mihail Sebastian was marginalized by Romania's antisemitic policies, and came to reflect on his Romanian friend's association with the far right. The subsequent ideological break between him and Eliade has been compared by writer Gabriela Adameşteanu with that between Jean-Paul Sartre and Albert Camus. In his \"Journal\", published long after his 1945 death, Sebastian claimed that Eliade's actions during the 1930s show him to be an antisemite. According to Sebastian, Eliade had been friendly to him until the start of his political commitments, after which he severed all ties. Before their friendship came apart, however, Sebastian claimed that he took notes on their conversations (which he later published) during which Eliade was supposed to have expressed antisemitic views. According to Sebastian, Eliade said in 1939:\n\nThe Poles' resistance in Warsaw is a Jewish resistance. Only yids are capable of the blackmail of putting women and children in the front line, to take advantage of the Germans' sense of scruple. The Germans have no interest in the destruction of Romania. Only a pro-German government can save us... What is happening on the frontier with Bukovina is a scandal, because new waves of Jews are flooding into the country. Rather than a Romania again invaded by kikes, it would be better to have a German protectorate.\n\nThe friendship between Eliade and Sebastian drastically declined during the war: the latter writer, fearing for his security during the pro-Nazi Ion Antonescu regime (\"see Romania during World War II\"), hoped that Eliade, by then a diplomat, could intervene in his favor; however, upon his brief return to Romania, Eliade did not see or approach Sebastian.\n\nLater, Mircea Eliade expressed his regret at not having had the chance to redeem his friendship with Sebastian before the latter was killed in a car accident. Paul Cernat notes that Eliade's statement includes an admission that he \"counted on [Sebastian's] support, in order to get back into Romanian life and culture\", and proposes that Eliade may have expected his friend to vouch for him in front of hostile authorities. Some of Sebastian's late recordings in his diary show that their author was reflecting with nostalgia on his relationship with Eliade, and that he deplored the outcome.\n\nEliade provided two distinct explanations for not having met with Sebastian: one was related to his claim of being followed around by the Gestapo, and the other, expressed in his diaries, was that the shame of representing a regime that humiliated Jews had made him avoid facing his former friend. Another take on the matter was advanced in 1972 by the Israeli magazine \"Toladot\", who claimed that, as an official representative, Eliade was aware of Antonescu's agreement to implement the Final Solution in Romania and of how this could affect Sebastian (\"see Holocaust in Romania\"). In addition, rumors were sparked that Sebastian and Nina Mareş had a physical relationship, one which could have contributed to the clash between the two literary figures.\n\nBeyond his involvement with a movement known for its antisemitism, Eliade did not usually comment on Jewish issues. However, an article titled \"Piloţii orbi\" (\"The Blind Pilots\"), contributed to the journal \"Vremea\" in 1936, showed that he supported at least some Iron Guard accusations against the Jewish community:\n\nSince the war [that is, World War I], Jews have occupied the villages of Maramureş and Bukovina, and gained the absolute majority in the towns and cities in Bessarabia. [...] It would be absurd to expect Jews to resign themselves in order to become a minority with certain rights and very many duties—after they have tasted the honey of power and conquered as many command positions as they have. Jews are currently fighting with all forces to maintain their positions, expecting a future offensive—and, as far as I am concerned, I understand their fight and admire their vitality, tenacity, genius.\n\nOne year later, a text, accompanied by his picture, was featured as answer to an inquiry by the Iron Guard's \"Buna Vestire\" about the reasons he had for supporting the movement. A short section of it summarizes an anti-Jewish attitude:\n\nCan the Romanian nation end its life in the saddest decay witnessed by history, undermined by misery and syphilis, conquered by Jews and torn to pieces by foreigners, demoralized, betrayed, sold for a few million lei?\n\nAccording to the literary critic Z. Ornea, in the 1980s Eliade denied authorship of the text. He explained the use of his signature, his picture, and the picture's caption, as having been applied by the magazine's editor, Mihail Polihroniade, to a piece the latter had written after having failed to obtain Eliade's contribution; he also claimed that, given his respect for Polihroniade, he had not wished to publicize this matter previously.\n\nDumitru G. Danielopol, a fellow diplomat present in London during Eliade's stay in the city, later stated that the latter had identified himself as \"a guiding light of [the Iron Guard] movement\" and victim of Carol II's repression. In October 1940, as the National Legionary State came into existence, the British Foreign Office blacklisted Mircea Eliade, alongside five other Romanians, due to his Iron Guard connections and suspicions that he was prepared to spy in favor of Nazi Germany. According to various sources, while in Portugal, the diplomat was also preparing to disseminate propaganda in favor of the Iron Guard. In \"Jurnal portughez\", Eliade defines himself as \"a Legionary\", and speaks of his own \"Legionary climax\" as a stage he had gone through during the early 1940s.\n\nThe depolitisation of Eliade after the start of his diplomatic career was also mistrusted by his former close friend Eugène Ionesco, who indicated that, upon the close of World War II, Eliade's personal beliefs as communicated to his friends amounted to \"all is over now that Communism has won\". This forms part of Ionesco's severe and succinct review of the careers of Legionary-inspired intellectuals, many of them his friends and former friends, in a letter he sent to Tudor Vianu. In 1946, Ionesco indicated to Petru Comarnescu that he did not want to see either Eliade or Cioran, and that he considered the two of them \"Legionaries for ever\"—adding \"we are hyenas to one another\".\n\nEliade's former friend, the communist Belu Zilber, who was attending the Paris Conference in 1946, refused to see Eliade, arguing that, as an Iron Guard affiliate, the latter had \"denounced left-wingers\", and contrasting him with Cioran (\"They are both Legionaries, but [Cioran] is honest\"). Three years later, Eliade's political activities were brought into discussion as he was getting ready to publish a translation of his \"Techniques du Yoga\" with the left-leaning Italian company \"Giulio Einaudi Editore\"—the denunciation was probably orchestrated by Romanian officials.\n\nIn August 1954, when Horia Sima, who led the Iron Guard during its exile, was rejected by a faction inside the movement, Mircea Eliade's name was included on a list of persons who supported the latter—although this may have happened without his consent. According to exiled dissident and novelist Dumitru Ţepeneag, around that date, Eliade expressed his sympathy for Iron Guard members in general, whom he viewed as \"courageous\". However, according to Robert Ellwood, the Eliade he met in the 1960s was entirely apolitical, remained aloof from \"the passionate politics of that era in the United States\", and \"[r]eportedly [...] never read newspapers\" (an assessment shared by Sorin Alexandrescu). Eliade's student Ioan Petru Culianu noted that journalists had come to refer to the Romanian scholar as \"the great recluse\". Despite Eliade's withdrawal from radical politics, Ellwood indicates, he still remained concerned with Romania's welfare. He saw himself and other exiled Romanian intellectuals as members of a circle who worked to \"maintain the culture of a free Romania and, above all, to publish texts that had become unpublishable in Romania itself\".\n\nBeginning in 1969, Eliade's past became the subject of public debate in Israel. At the time, historian Gershom Scholem asked Eliade to explain his attitudes, which the latter did using vague terms. As a result of this exchange, Scholem declared his dissatisfaction, and argued that Israel could not extend a welcome to the Romanian academic. During the final years of Eliade's life, his disciple Culianu exposed and publicly criticized his 1930s pro-Iron Guard activities; relations between the two soured as a result. Eliade's other Romanian disciple, Andrei Oişteanu, noted that, in the years following Eliade's death, conversations with various people who had known the scholar had made Culianu less certain of his earlier stances, and had led him to declare: \"Mr. Eliade was never antisemitic, a member of the Iron Guard, or pro-Nazi. But, in any case, I am led to believe that he was closer to the Iron Guard than I would have liked to believe.\"\n\nAt an early stage of his polemic with Culianu, Eliade complained in writing that \"it is not possible to write an objective history\" of the Iron Guard and its leader Corneliu Zelea Codreanu. Arguing that people \"would only accept apologetics [...] or executions\", he contended: \"After Buchenwald and Auschwitz, even honest people cannot afford being objective\".\n\nAlongside the arguments introduced by Daniel Dubuisson, criticism of Mircea Eliade's political involvement with antisemitism and fascism came from Adriana Berger, Leon Volovici, Alexandra Lagniel-Lavastine, Florin Țurcanu and others, who have attempted to trace Eliade's antisemitism throughout his work and through his associations with contemporary antisemites, such as the Italian fascist occultist Julius Evola. Volovici, for example, is critical of Eliade not only because of his support for the Iron Guard, but also for spreading antisemitism and anti-Masonry in 1930s Romania. In 1991, exiled novelist Norman Manea published an essay firmly condemning Eliade's attachment to the Iron Guard.\n\nOther scholars, like Bryan S. Rennie, have claimed that there is, to date, no evidence of Eliade's membership, active services rendered, or of any real involvement with any fascist or totalitarian movements or membership organizations, nor that there is any evidence of his continued support for nationalist ideals after their inherently violent nature was revealed. They further assert that there is no imprint of overt political beliefs in Eliade's scholarship, and also claim that Eliade's critics are following political agendas. Romanian scholar Mircea Handoca, editor of Eliade's writings, argues that the controversy surrounding Eliade was encouraged by a group of exiled writers, of whom Manea was a main representative, and believes that Eliade's association with the Guard was a conjectural one, determined by the young author's Christian values and conservative stance, as well as by his belief that a Legionary Romania could mirror Portugal's \"Estado Novo\". Handoca opined that Eliade changed his stance after discovering that the Legionaries had turned violent, and argued that there was no evidence of Eliade's actual affiliation with the Iron Guard as a political movement. Additionally, Joaquín Garrigós, who translated Eliade's works into Spanish, claimed that none of Eliade's texts he ever encountered show him to be an antisemite. Mircea Eliade's nephew and commentator Sorin Alexandrescu himself proposed that Eliade's politics were essentially conservative and patriotic, in part motivated by a fear of the Soviet Union which he shared with many other young intellectuals. Based on Mircea Eliade's admiration for Gandhi, various other authors assess that Eliade remained committed to nonviolence.\n\nRobert Ellwood also places Eliade's involvement with the Iron Guard in relation to scholar's conservatism, and connects this aspect of Eliade's life with both his nostalgia and his study of primal societies. According to Ellwood, the part of Eliade that felt attracted to the \"freedom of new beginnings suggested by primal myths\" is the same part that felt attracted to the Guard, with its almost mythological notion of a new beginning through a \"national resurrection\". On a more basic level, Ellwood describes Eliade as an \"instinctively spiritual\" person who saw the Iron Guard as a spiritual movement. In Ellwood's view, Eliade was aware that the \"golden age\" of antiquity was no longer accessible to secular man, that it could be recalled but not re-established. Thus, a \"more accessible\" object for nostalgia was a \"secondary silver age within the last few hundred years\"—the Kingdom of Romania's 19th century cultural renaissance. To the young Eliade, the Iron Guard seemed like a path for returning to the silver age of Romania's glory, being a movement \"dedicated to the cultural and national renewal of the Romanian people by appeal to their spiritual roots\". Ellwood describes the young Eliade as someone \"capable of being fired up by mythological archetypes and with no awareness of the evil that was to be unleashed\".\n\nBecause of Eliade's withdrawal from politics, and also because the later Eliade's religiosity was very personal and idiosyncratic, Ellwood believes the later Eliade probably would have rejected the \"corporate sacred\" of the Iron Guard. According to Ellwood, the later Eliade had the same desire for a Romanian \"resurrection\" that had motivated the early Eliade to support the Iron Guard, but he now channeled it apolitically through his efforts to \"maintain the culture of a free Romania\" abroad. In one of his writings, Eliade says, \"Against the terror of History there are only two possibilities of defense: action or contemplation.\" According to Ellwood, the young Eliade took the former option, trying to reform the world through action, whereas the older Eliade tried to resist the terror of history intellectually.\n\nEliade's own version of events, presenting his involvement in far right politics as marginal, was judged to contain several inaccuracies and unverifiable claims. For instance, Eliade depicted his arrest as having been solely caused by his friendship with Nae Ionescu. On another occasion, answering Gershom Scholem's query, he is known to have explicitly denied ever having contributed to \"Buna Vestire\". According to Sorin Antohi, \"Eliade died without ever clearly expressing regret for his Iron Guard sympathies\". Z. Ornea noted that, in a short section of his \"Autobiography\" where he discusses the \"Einaudi\" incident, Eliade speaks of \"my imprudent acts and errors committed in youth\", as \"a series of malentendus that would follow me all my life.\" Ornea commented that this was the only instance where the Romanian academic spoke of his political involvement with a dose of self-criticism, and contrasted the statement with Eliade's usual refusal to discuss his stances \"pertinently\". Reviewing the arguments brought in support of Eliade, Sergio Vila-Sanjuán concluded: \"Nevertheless, Eliade's pro-Legionary columns endure in the newspaper libraries, he never showed his regret for this connection [with the Iron Guard] and always, right up to his final writings, he invoked the figure of his teacher Nae Ionescu.\"\n\nIn his \"Felix Culpa\", Manea directly accused Eliade of having embellished his memoirs in order to minimize an embarrassing past. A secondary debate surrounding Eliade's alleged unwillingness to dissociate with the Guard took place after \"Jurnalul portughez\" saw print. Sorin Alexandrescu expressed a belief that notes in the diary show Eliade's \"break with his far right past\". Cătălin Avramescu defined this conclusion as \"whitewashing\", and, answering to Alexandrescu's claim that his uncle's support for the Guard was always superficial, argued that \"Jurnal portughez\" and other writings of the time showed Eliade's disenchantment with the Legionaries' Christian stance in tandem with his growing sympathy for Nazism and its pagan messages. Paul Cernat, who stressed that it was the only one of Eliade's autobiographical works not to have been reworked by its author, concluded that the book documented Eliade's own efforts to \"camouflage\" his political sympathies without rejecting them altogether.\n\nOișteanu argued that, in old age, Eliade moved away from his earlier stances and even came to sympathize with the non-Marxist Left and the hippie youth movement. He noted that Eliade initially felt apprehensive about the consequences of hippie activism, but that the interests they shared, as well as their advocacy of communalism and free love had made him argue that hippies were \"a quasi-religious movement\" that was \"rediscovering the sacrality of Life\". Andrei Oișteanu, who proposed that Eliade's critics were divided into a \"maximalist\" and a \"minimalist\" camp (trying to, respectively, enhance or shadow the impact Legionary ideas had on Eliade), argued in favor of moderation, and indicated that Eliade's fascism needed to be correlated to the political choices of his generation.\n\nVarious critics have traced links between Eliade's fiction works and his political views, or Romanian politics in general. Early on, George Călinescu argued that the totalitarian model outlined in \"Huliganii\" was: \"An allusion to certain bygone political movements [...], sublimated in the ever so abstruse philosophy of death as a path to knowledge.\" By contrast, \"Întoarcerea din rai\" partly focuses on a failed communist rebellion, which enlists the participation of its main characters.\n\n\"Iphigenia\"‍'s story of self-sacrifice, turned voluntary in Eliade's version, was taken by various commentators, beginning with Mihail Sebastian, as a favorable allusion to the Iron Guard's beliefs on commitment and death, as well as to the bloody outcome of the 1941 Legionary Rebellion. Ten years after its premiere, the play was reprinted by Legionary refugees in Argentina: on the occasion, the text was reviewed for publishing by Eliade himself. Reading \"Iphigenia\" was what partly sparked Culianu's investigation of his mentor's early political affiliations.\n\nA special debate was sparked by \"Un om mare\". Culianu viewed it as a direct reference to Corneliu Zelea Codreanu and his rise in popularity, an interpretation partly based on the similarity between, on one hand, two monikers ascribed to the Legionary leader (by, respectively, his adversaries and his followers), and, on the other, the main character's name (\"Cucoanes\"). Matei Călinescu did not reject Culianu's version, but argued that, on its own, the piece was beyond political interpretations. Commenting on this dialog, literary historian and essayist Mircea Iorgulescu objected to the original verdict, indicating his belief that there was no historical evidence to substantiate Culianu's point of view.\n\nAlongside Eliade's main works, his attempted novel of youth, \"Minunata călătorie a celor cinci cărăbuși in țara furnicilor roșii\", which depicts a population of red ants living in a totalitarian society and forming bands to harass the beetles, was seen as a potential allusion to the Soviet Union and to communism. Despite Eliade's ultimate reception in Communist Romania, this writing could not be published during the period, after censors singled out fragments which they saw as especially problematic.\n\nAn endowed chair in the History of Religions at the University of Chicago Divinity School was named after Eliade in recognition of his wide contribution to the research on this subject; the current (and first incumbent) holder of this chair is Wendy Doniger.\n\nTo evaluate the legacy of Eliade and Joachim Wach within the discipline of the history of religions, the University of Chicago chose 2006 (the intermediate year between the 50th anniversary of Wach's death and the 100th anniversary of Eliade's birth), to hold a two-day conference in order to reflect upon their academic contributions and their political lives in their social and historical contexts, as well as the relationship between their works and their lives.\n\nIn 1990, after the Romanian Revolution, Eliade was elected posthumously to the Romanian Academy. In Romania, Mircea Eliade's legacy in the field of the history of religions is mirrored by the journal \"Archaeus\" (founded 1997, and affiliated with the University of Bucharest Faculty of History). The 6th European Association for the Study of Religion and International Association for the History of Religions Special Conference on \"Religious History of Europe and Asia\" took place from September 20 to September 23, 2006, in Bucharest. An important section of the Congress was dedicated to the memory of Mircea Eliade, whose legacy in the field of history of religions was scrutinized by various scholars, some of whom were his direct students at the University of Chicago.\n\nAs Antohi noted, Eliade, Emil Cioran and Constantin Noica \"represent in Romanian culture ultimate expressions of excellence, [Eliade and Cioran] being regarded as proof that Romania's interwar culture (and, by extension, Romanian culture as a whole) was able to reach the ultimate levels of depth, sophistication and creativity.\" A Romanian Television 1 poll carried out in 2006 nominated Mircea Eliade as the 7th Greatest Romanian in history; his case was argued by the journalist Dragoş Bucurenci (\"see 100 greatest Romanians\"). His name was given to a boulevard in the northern Bucharest area of Primăverii, to a street in Cluj-Napoca, and to high schools in Bucharest, Sighişoara, and Reşiţa. The Eliades' house on Melodiei Street was torn down during the communist regime, and an apartment block was raised in its place; his second residence, on Dacia Boulevard, features a memorial plaque in his honor.\n\nEliade's image in contemporary culture also has political implications. Historian Irina Livezeanu proposed that the respect he enjoys in Romania is matched by that of other \"nationalist thinkers and politicians\" who \"have reentered the contemporary scene largely as heroes of a pre- and anticommunist past\", including Nae Ionescu and Cioran, but also Ion Antonescu and Nichifor Crainic. In parallel, according to Oişteanu (who relied his assessment on Eliade's own personal notes), Eliade's interest in the American hippie community was reciprocated by members of the latter, some of whom reportedly viewed Eliade as \"a guru\".\n\nEliade has also been hailed as an inspiration by German representatives of the \"Neue Rechte\", claiming legacy from the Conservative Revolutionary movement (among them is the controversial magazine \"Junge Freiheit\" and the essayist Karlheinz Weißmann). In 2007, Florin Ţurcanu's biographical volume on Eliade was issued in a German translation by the Antaios publishing house, which is mouthpiece for the \"Neue Rechte\". The edition was not reviewed by the mainstream German press. Other sections of the European far right also claim Eliade as an inspiration, and consider his contacts with the Iron Guard to be a merit—among their representatives are the Italian neofascist Claudio Mutti and Romanian groups who trace their origin to the Legionary Movement.\n\nEarly on, Mircea Eliade's novels were the subject of satire: before the two of them became friends, Nicolae Steinhardt, using the pen name \"Antisthius\", authored and published parodies of them. Maitreyi Devi, who strongly objected to Eliade's account of their encounter and relationship, wrote her own novel as a reply to his \"Maitreyi\"; written in Bengali, it was titled \"Na Hanyate\" (translated into English as \"It Does Not Die\"). Several authors, including Ioan Petru Culianu, have drawn a parallel between Eugène Ionesco's Absurdist play of 1959, \"Rhinoceros\", which depicts the population of a small town falling victim to a mass metamorphosis, and the impact fascism had on Ionesco's closest friends (Eliade included).\n\nIn 2000, Saul Bellow published his controversial \"Ravelstein\" novel. Having for its setting the University of Chicago, it had among its characters Radu Grielescu, who was identified by several critics as Eliade. The latter's portrayal, accomplished through statements made by the eponymous character, is polemical: Grielescu, who is identified as a disciple of Nae Ionescu, took part in the Bucharest Pogrom, and is in Chicago as a refugee scholar, searching for the friendship of a Jewish colleague as a means to rehabilitate himself. In 2005, the Romanian literary critic and translator Antoaneta Ralian, who was an acquaintance of Bellow's, argued that much of the negative portrayal was owed to a personal choice Bellow made (after having divorced from Alexandra Bagdasar, his Romanian wife and Eliade disciple). She also mentioned that, during a 1979 interview, Bellow had expressed admiration for Eliade.\n\nThe 1988 film \"The Bengali Night\", directed by Nicolas Klotz and based upon the French translation of \"Maitreyi\", stars British actor Hugh Grant as Allan, the European character based on Eliade, while Supriya Pathak is Gayatri, a character based on Maitreyi Devi (who had refused to be mentioned by name). The film, considered \"pornographic\" by Hindu activists, was only shown once in India. In addition to \"The Bengali Night\", films based on, or referring to, his works, include: \"Mircea Eliade et la redécouverte du Sacré\" (1987), part of the television series \"Architecture et Géographie sacrées\", by Paul Barbă Neagră; \"Domnişoara Christina\" (1992), by Viorel Sergovici; \"Eu Adam\" (1996), by Dan Pița; \"Youth Without Youth\" (2007), by Francis Ford Coppola.\n\nEliade's \"Iphigenia\" was again included in theater programs during the late years of the Nicolae Ceauşescu regime: in January 1982, a new version, directed by Ion Cojar, premiered at the National Theater Bucharest, starring Mircea Albulescu, Tania Filip and Adrian Pintea in some of the main roles. Dramatizations based on his work include \"La Țigănci\", which has been the basis for two theater adaptations: \"Cazul Gavrilescu\" (\"The Gavrilescu Case\"), directed by Gelu Colceag and hosted by the Nottara Theater, and an eponymous play by director Alexandru Hausvater, first staged by the Odeon Theater in 2003 (starring, among others, Adriana Trandafir, Florin Zamfirescu, and Carmen Tănase). In March 2007, on Eliade's 100th birthday, the Romanian Radio Broadcasting Company hosted the \"Mircea Eliade Week\", during which radio drama adaptations of several works were broadcast. In September of that year, director and dramatist Cezarina Udrescu staged a multimedia performance based on a number of works Mircea Eliade wrote during his stay in Portugal; titled \"Apocalipsa după Mircea Eliade\" (\"The Apocalypse According to Mircea Eliade\"), and shown as part of a Romanian Radio cultural campaign, it starred Ion Caramitru, Oana Pellea and Răzvan Vasilescu. \"Domnișoara Christina\" has been the subject of two operas: the first, carrying the same Romanian title, was authored by Romanian composer Șerban Nichifor and premiered in 1981 at the Romanian Radio; the second, titled \"La señorita Cristina\", was written by Spanish composer Luis de Pablo and premiered in 2000 at the Teatro Real in Madrid.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8519439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8519439", "title": "Monument to Peter I (St. Michael's Castle)", "text": "Monument to Peter I (St. Michael's Castle)\n\nThe Monument to Peter I () is a bronze equestrian monument of Peter the Great in front of the St. Michael's Castle in Saint Petersburg, Russia. \n\nIn 1716, emperor Peter the Great commissioned the Italian sculptor Carlo Bartolomeo Rastrelli to design an equestrian statue in commemoration of the Russian victories over Sweden in the Great Northern War. Rastrelli worked for eight years with a model of the monument before it was approved by the emperor in 1724. But as the emperor died the following year, work halted and the sculpture's casting was only completed after the sculptor's death, by 1747, only to remain in a local warehouse, and not to be erected until 53 years later. In the meantime, Catherine the Great had ordered another monument in memory of her predecessor Peter the Great - the \"Bronze Horseman\", the most famous statue of Peter the Great in St Petersburg. At the base of the \"Bronze Horseman\", Catherine even linked her name with Peter the Great, an expression of Catherine's attitude toward her predecessor and her view of her own place in the line of great Russian rulers. Catherine, who, having gained her position through a palace coup, had no legal claim to the throne, was anxious to appear as Peter's rightful heir.\n\nOnly in 1800, during the reign of emperor Paul I, was the Monument to Peter I finally erected. It was placed on a pedestal faced with green, red and white-shaded Finnish marble that is decorated with bas-reliefs depicting scenes of two Russian victories over Sweden during the Great Northern War, the Battle of Poltava and the Battle of Hangö, and also an allegorical composition with trophies. The Russian victories at Poltava and near Hangö, Finland helped Russia become the dominant power in the north of the continent. Peter the Great led his troops to both victories. \n\nBy order of emperor Paul I, the inscription \"\"To Great Grandfather from Great Grandson\" (\"Прадеду - правнук\") was made on the pedestal, a subtle but obvious allusion to the Latin \"Petro Primo Catherina Secunda\"\", the dedication by Catherine the Great on the \"Bronze Horseman\". \n\nDuring World War II, the equestrian statue of Peter I was removed from its pedestal and sheltered from the 900-day German siege of the city. In 1945, the statue was restored and returned to its pedestal.\n\n"}
{"id": "21433241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21433241", "title": "Munshiram Manoharlal", "text": "Munshiram Manoharlal\n\nMunshiram Manoharlal Publishers Pvt. Ltd. (MRML) is a leading publishing house located in New Delhi, India. Established in 1952 by Manohar Lal Jain, it is one of the oldest publishing houses in India. It publishes books on Social Sciences and Humanities and has published over 3000 academic and scholarly publications in subjects such as Indian Art, Art History, Architecture, Archaeology, History, Culture, Politics, Numismatics, Geography, Travels, Voyages, Indian Law, Indian Medicine, Language, Literature, Linguistics, Dictionaries, Glossaries, Handbooks, Indices, Music, Dance, Theatre, Religion, Philosophy, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Jainism, Sufism, Sikhism, Tantra, Mysticism, Yoga, Sanskrit Literature, Sociology, Anthropology, and related subjects.\n\nMRML also co-publishes scholarly titles with governmental institutions and bodies such as the Indian Council of Philosophical Research (ICPR); Centre for Studies in Civilizations which is world-renowned for the series of scholarly publications called the Project of History of Science, Philosophy and Culture (PHISPC); Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA); and Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR). In addition to this, MRML publishes and reprints books in collaboration with university presses, independent publishers, scholars, and institutions around the world.\n\nMunshiram Manoharlal belongs to a family of publishers who were the pioneers in Indological publishing in India. The origins of the family business can be traced back to 1870 in Lahore where books were published under the name of the ancestral company which was founded by Mehar Chand Jain. He named it Meharchand Lachhmandas. Mehar Chand Jain, a widely respected literary figure, had translated the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs, into English. The British decorated him for his ground-breaking work. The company slowly expanded and its publications were being sold at premier bookstores all over the country.\n\nMeharchand Lachhmandas became the first to publish several classic, essential, and perennial texts in the field of Indology and became the premier Indological publisher with a long list of published titles. It had a vast collection of manuscripts and publications from around the world at its bookshops. Lahore was the centre of education at that time and the company's bookshops specialized in Indology. It flourished for three subsequent generations, i.e., Lachhman Das Jain, Munshi Ram Jain, and Manohar Lal Jain.\n\nIn 1947, just before the partition of India, the offices, press, bookstore, and residence were burned down by Muslim activists. Fortunately, the women and children of the family had been evacuated earlier to Amritsar. Soon afterwards, Manohar Lal Jain was forced to flee to Amritsar to take refuge, and was helped by kind Muslim neighbours, who helped him escape safely across the border. The family was once again united, but with no business or assets.\n\nAfter the partition of India, there was a split in the family business. Manohar Lal Jain separated from the parent company Meharchand Lachhmandas to set up his own bookselling and publishing company. In 1948, he sold the jewelry his wife had brought with her from Lahore, and with that money, steps were taken to re-establish the business. Since Manohar Lal Jain was a well-known publisher with an excellent reputation, it was not difficult for him to restart the business. His services to the literary world were recognized and the business flourished once again.\n\nIn 1952, Munshiram Manoharlal was founded as a bookselling and publishing company at Nai Sarak in Delhi. It soon gained popularity and respect and became a leading Indological publisher, bookseller, and library-supplier from India. Munshiram Manoharlal's publications, along with other publications from the Indian subcontinent, were now being marketed aggressively in the South Asian market and exported to countries all over the world.\n\nManohar Lal Jain died in 1988 due to cardiac arrest. Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers Pvt. Ltd. is now run by his son and his grandson, namely Ashok Jain and Vikram Jain respectively.\n\nMRML's head-office, principal bookstore, and distribution centre is located at 54 Rani Jhansi Road, New Delhi 110 055. Additionally, it also has a city showroom called Sanctum Books at 68 Medical Association Road, Darya Ganj (near Hindi Park), New Delhi 110 002.\n\netc.\n\nThe MRML group consists of the following three companies:\n\n"}
{"id": "3426802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3426802", "title": "Nalsar University of Law", "text": "Nalsar University of Law\n\nNalsar University of Law, officially the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR), is a legal studies institution located in Shamirpet, Hyderabad, Telangana, India. Established in 1998 by an Act of the State Legislative Assembly (Act 34 of 1998) by the state of Andhra Pradesh, it was the second National Law University to be instituted in India. The university offers undergraduate and postgraduate programs in law and postgraduate programs in business administration.\n\nNALSAR offers a five-year integrated B.A LL.B.(Hons.) program. Admission to the undergraduate program is on the basis of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). NALSAR follows a credit based elective system, with certain mandatory courses, which requires students to earn 200 credits over a period of five years to earn the degree.\n\nNALSAR offers a one-year postgraduate LL.M. program. 50 students are admitted through CLAT with ten more spots allocated to foreign nationals. About ten areas of specialization are offered, and the program requirements include a dissertation. Additionally, two-year (four semesters) self-financed master's degree in Business Laws and Administration (MBLA)is also offered by the University apart from a one-year Master of Philosophy (M.Phil) which is open to candidate with an LL.M. degree, and a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D). As a first among the Indian National Law Universities, starting academic year 2013-14, NALSAR now also offers a two-year M.B.A. program.\n\nSimilarly, CASL has introduced innovative courses in Aviation, Space, Telecommunications, GIS and Remote Sensing. Its objective is to cater to the unprecedented growth and commercialization of the Aviation, Space and Telecom sectors. CASL’s initiative aims to institutionalize an academy-industry partnership in these sectors- a first of its kind, not just in India but perhaps in the entire Asia-Pacific Region. It offers the following two degree courses: Master’s Degree in Aviation Law and Air Transport Management (MALATM) and master's degree in Space and Telecommunication Laws (MSTL).\n\nNALSAR Pro offers PG Diploma courses in Patents Law, Cyber Laws, Media Laws and International Humanitarian Laws using web technology and direct contact programmes at various centres in India. CASL offers PG Diploma in Aviation Law and Air Transport Management (PGDALATM); PG Diploma in GIS & Remote Sensing Laws (PGDGRL).\n\nNALSAR was ranked second in India by \"The Week\"s \"Top Law Colleges In 2017\".\n\nThe law school is spread over 55 acre (22 hectare), divided into five precincts. The first is the Administrative Block which is adjoining the Academic Block. The Academic Block consists of the classrooms, conference halls, the library, the internet centre, a moot court hall, and research centres. The residential block consists of five separate hostels for boys and girls each. The entire campus is WiFi network enabled. The stadium forms the fourth while the law school dining hall forms the fifth. Miscellaneous structures include the commemorative 'Keerthi Stambh' and a replica of 'The Thinker' by Auguste Rodin. An auditorium, with a seating capacity of close to 500, has also been completed.\nNALSAR's library has a collection of more than 27,000 items comprising law reports, reviews, periodicals, manuals and choicest publications of textbooks and other resources. The Law Resource Center is the hub of all library activities and aims at fulfilling the research and academic objectives of the university. Its rich collection of primary and secondary legal resources is accessible to all the users in the campus. The VPN-configured Online Public Access Catalogue (OPAC) is accessible from any terminal in and out of the campus. It is designed to provide online information on availability of titles, and to allow the patrons to request for items that are on loan, renewal of books, access to patron accounts and other information services. Unlike the traditional OPACS, each record provides bibliographic information with hot links to table of contents pages, reviews, publishers' notes, and peer driven reviews and ratings. The library has a depository of UN collections. A separate section houses all the proceedings of the organs of the United Nations. The print collection is augmented by online access.\n\nNALSAR houses research centres:\n\n\nNalsar students have excelled in mooting at the national and international level.\n\nIt was ranked amongst the top four in the world at the international rounds of the Philip C. Jessup Moot Court Competition 2006 at Washington, D.C. In 2007, Nalsar was placed amongst the top eight teams in the world, at the Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition. In 2010, the team from Nalsar finished as semi-finalists in the Jessup International Law Moot Competition.\n\nNALSAR made it to the top 12 teams and competed in the International Finals of the 11th Annual Stetson Environmental Moot Court Competition held at Stetson University College of Law, Florida in November 2006. Nalsar finished as runners-up in the first edition of the ICC Trial Competition at The Hague, a feat it repeated in 2011. In 2009, Nalsar won the D.M. Harish International Moot Court Competition. The team also won the Best Speaker and Best Researcher prizes. In 2011, Nalsar were the semi-finalists in the Asia-Pacific rounds of the Manfred Lachs Moot Court Competition. In 2012, Nalsar won the Monroe E. Price International Media Law Moot Court Competition at the University of Oxford.\n\nIn 2014, Nalsar won the Willem C. Vis International Commercial Arbitration Moot Court Competition, conducted at Vienna.\n\nNalsar was judged the best in India in mooting in the first two seasons of Mooting Premiere League in 2009-2010 and 2010-2011.\n\nNALSAR won India's oldest Parliamentary Debate at St. Stephens College, Delhi in December 2005. This was followed by victories at the Annual Parliamentary Debate held at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras in January 2007 and 2009, the debate conducted by the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad in February 2007, and that of the Young Orators Club of Secunderabad in 2008. NALSAR further cemented its reputation on the debating circuit by winning the inaugural IIM Bangalore Parliamentary Debating Championship 'Cicero' in January 2009.\n\nThe NALSAR Intervarsity Debating Championship is the pioneer of the British Parliamentary Debating format in India. The idea for the NALSAR IV was born to introduce the British Parliamentary debate format to the national debating circuit and provide a preparatory ground for the WUDC (World Universities Debating Championship), the most prestigious debating championship in the world. Thus, the NALSAR IV is aimed at exposing debaters to the most competitive standards of adjudication. The NALSAR IV has now earned the name to be one of the most prestigious debating championships in India.\n\nOver the past many years, NALSAR has been very active in the Hyderabad and Indian quizzing circuit. Teams representing the university have won a number of inter-college quizzes in the twin cities, and across India.The college has a strong quizzing base and sees quizzes being hosted within the college regularly from time to time. Achievements by quizzers from NALSAR include finishing as runners-up in the K-Circle India Quiz 2010 and 2011, as well as winners in BITS Pilani-Hyderabad Campus' annual fest Pearl 2012, 2013 and 2015. A 4th year team won the Best College Team title at the Landmark Quiz held at Hyderabad on 6 October 2013, something which has also been won by NALSAR before. NALSAR also finished second in Manipal's Quiz on The Beach 2015 and Tata Crucible Hyderabad 2015. A team won the Economic Times in Campus Quiz for two years consecutively in 2014 and 2015. The university has also become host to one of India's largest college QuizFests, titled 'Interrobang', which will be in its third edition in March 2016.\n\nNALSAR publishes the following law journals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3458538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3458538", "title": "Petrus Josephus Zoetmulder", "text": "Petrus Josephus Zoetmulder\n\nPetrus Josephus Zoetmulder S.J. (January 29, 1906 – July 8, 1995) was a Dutch expert in the Old Javanese language. He came from Utrecht and was associated with the Society of Jesus by 1925. He worked at Leiden University in the 1930s. His first work appeared in 1930 and he continued to write into the 1990s. He lived in Yogyakarta and was interred in the Jesuit necropolis at Muntilan, Java.\n\nHis work was important in the understanding of linguistic studies of Java. He also did works on Monism and Muhammad. Merle Ricklefs translated his thesis in the 1990s.\n\nZoetmulder was born in Utrecht, Netherlands. From his early childhood, \"Piet\"—as he was called—was able to read and write even before entering school. His mother Catharina née Noelege was a professional pianist and had been a patient teacher to Piet such that he was able to be admitted to primary school without having to attend kindergarten due to his reading and writing skills. At school he was known to be a conscientious, talented and smart student. His father was an engineer.\n\nPiet was raised in a Roman Catholic family, and while attending the Canisius College Mater Dei \"gymnasium\" he became interested in becoming a priest, specifically as a member of the \"Society of Jesus\". Two of his uncles were priests, and an aunt had been a nun in Africa and Suriname. His father had to move to the town of Heerlen for his work as a public health engineer, so Piet attended a gymnasium at Rolduc instead, which was also his father's alma mater. He graduated in the A and B academic tracks. In 1925 he was admitted to the Society of Jesus Novitiate School to begin his training as a priest.\n\nFather J. Willekens, S.J., his mentor at the novitiate, advised Zoetmulder to consider working for the mission on the island of Java. Following his mentor's advise, Zoetmulder departed for the Dutch East Indies as a 19-year novice. He was placed at the Intermediate Seminary in Yogyakarta, Central Java. Surprisingly, three years later his former mentor Willekens himself joined him in Java as a \"Visiting Apostolic\". Upon meeting his former student, Willekens commented that, \"In addition to studying philosophy, you must also learn old Javanese.\" He was introduced to Prof. C. C. Berg, who was an instructor in Surakarta, to help him study the language. In 1931 Zoetmulder graduated \"cum laude\" and was made a candidate priest in Girisonta, Ungaran, near Semarang.\n\nUpon his graduation from his study with Berg, Zoetmulder went to the University of Leiden in the Netherlands. He graduated with an associate degree in one year, contrary to the usual three years. He earned his bachelor's degree also in one year, contrary again to the usual three years customarily taken, with a degree in the history of Java and archeology. In October 1935 he successfully defended his doctoral thesis \"Pantheïsme en Monisme in de Javaansche Soeloek Literatuur,\" with the help of Berg. He graduated \"cum laude.\" Father Zoet, as he is affectionately called, had to finish his studies in theology before he returned to Java. For four years he studied in Maastricht. Before returning to the East Indies, he had to first undergo intermediate study of religion for year in Belgium. Unfortunately for him, the outbreak of World War II and the occupation of Belgium by Nazi forces forced him to seek refuge in France in June 1940.\n\nHe was finally able to obtain passage on a ship to the Dutch East Indies, but had to make a stop in Britain to avoid German sea mines blocking the sea routes. After a month's wait he was finally able to arrive on Java via Hong Kong. One of his colleagues had died when the ship that he boarded was torpedoed by the German Navy. Upon arrival in Java, Zoet exclaimed that, \"God had wished for me to be happy on Javanese soil.\"\n\nAfter his arrival in Jakarta, Zoetmulder was offered a post in the Linguistics Department of the University of Indonesia. However, his strong desire to further his study of Javanese drove him to choose to reside in Yogyakarta. He then taught at the AMS, and counted among his students Prof. Dr. Koentjaraningrat, Dr. Sukmono and Dr. S. Supomo.\n\nWhen Japanese forces entered Indonesia in 1942, Zoetmulder was interned as a citizen of the Netherlands. He was fortunate to be allowed to bring his books and pens as a prisoner. When he was transferred to the Cimahi prison he was able to smuggle the \"Adiparwa\" edited by Dr. H. H. Juynboll (\"Âdiparwa\"; Hendrik Herman Juynboll, ed., 1906 Koninklijk Instituut voor Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde, M. Nijhoff) and a Javanese dictionary written by Gericke-Roorda. Zoetmulder attempted to study the linguistics of old Javanese through this book. His study of old Javanese grammar was eventually published in Dutch in 1954 (\"De Taal van het Adiparwa\") and in Indonesian in 1950 (\"Bahasa Parwa\") with the help of I. R. Pedjawijatna. This book eventually was adopted as the basic textbook for the study of old Javanese.\n\nDuring the Indonesian National Revolution he was nearly killed by a freedom fighter due to his Dutch complexion while he was at the Kemetiran Residence, Yogyakarta. Fortunately, a Javanese man defended him and claimed that he was a \"holy man.\"\n\nAfter escaping the Internment camp Baros-I in 1945, he began to teach at Gadjah Mada University. Five years later he was made a Distinguished Permanent Professor of Pedagogic Literature at the same university, by a mandate from the Minister of Education and Culture. At this time he relinquished his former citizenship. His daily work was increased by his role as a representative of the Dean of the Literature Department Prof. Dr. R. M. Ng. Poerbatjaraka, who was spending most of his time in Jakarta. In addition, he was teaching Old Javanese in the Yogyakarta area.\n\nWhen he first started lecturing, Zoetmulder used Javanese. However, he then came to realize that many students came from outside of Java and hence did not speak Javanese fluently. In order to make the study easier, he wanted to write a dictionary of old Javanese, starting his work in 1950. In the beginning he was convinced that he would be able to do it in 10 years, but in reality he would take longer to finish the dictionary. He also wrote a compendium entitled \"Sekar Sumawur: Bunga rampai bahasa Djawa Kuno\".\n\nHis book \"Kalangwan\", containing an account of old Javanese \"belles lettres\" and writers, was published in 1974, to be followed by the \"Old Javanese-English Dictionary\" in 1982. He admitted difficulty in writing due to his having to collect his material from microfilm located at the University of Leiden.\n\nProf. Zoetmulder died on July 8, 1995 at the priest residence in Kemetiran, Yogyakarta. He was buried at the church cemetery in Muntilan, Magelang, Central Java.\n\nZoetmulder was an avid reader, and liked to play the violin. He considered himself Indonesian, or more specifically Javanese. \"God had placed my heart in Indonesia. My residence has been decided to be here,\" he said. On March 3, 1951, he was naturalized as an Indonesian citizen. He enjoyed his stay at Kemetiran, which is said to be compatible with his feeling of being Javanese. He had resided there for nine years.\n\nFather Zoet was a fan of Beethoven and Mozart. In addition to his religious and scientific textbooks, he also devoured volumes of novels and poetry, and detective series. It was said that he owned more than 1,000 detective books in his room, including those written by Ngaio Marsh. He was friends with detective writer John le Carré, and while staying in Bonn, Germany, he received a gift directly from Le Carré himself: a popular book titled \"The Spy Who Came in from the Cold\". Le Carré's other story \"A Small Town in Germany,\" was \"inspected\" by Father Zoet prior to publication.\n\n\n\"For a list of his articles, see the article in the Basa Jawa Wikipedia\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "375091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375091", "title": "Policy", "text": "Policy\n\nA policy is a deliberate system of principles to guide decisions and achieve rational outcomes. A policy is a statement of intent, and is implemented as a procedure or protocol. Policies are generally adopted by a governance body within an organization. Policies can assist in both \"subjective\" and \"objective\" decision making. Policies to assist in subjective decision making usually assist senior management with decisions that must be based on the relative merits of a number of factors, and as a result are often hard to test objectively, e.g. work-life balance policy. In contrast policies to assist in objective decision making are usually operational in nature and can be objectively tested, e.g. password policy.\n\nThe term may apply to government, private sector organizations and groups, as well as individuals. Presidential executive orders, corporate privacy policies, and parliamentary rules of order are all examples of policy. Policy differs from rules or law. While law can compel or prohibit behaviors (e.g. a law requiring the payment of taxes on income), policy merely guides actions toward those that are most likely to achieve a desired outcome.\n\nPolicy or policy study may also refer to the process of making important organizational decisions, including the identification of different alternatives such as programs or spending priorities, and choosing among them on the basis of the impact they will have. Policies can be understood as political, managerial, financial, and administrative mechanisms arranged to reach explicit goals. In public corporate finance, a critical accounting policy is a policy for a firm/company or an industry that is considered to have a notably high subjective element, and that has a material impact on the financial statements.\n\nThe intended effects of a policy vary widely according to the organization and the context in which they are made. Broadly, policies are typically instituted to avoid some negative effect that has been noticed in the \norganization, or to seek some positive benefit. \n\nCorporate purchasing policies provide an example of how organizations attempt to avoid negative effects. Many large companies have policies that all purchases above a certain value must be performed through a purchasing process. By requiring this standard purchasing process through policy, the organization can limit waste and standardize the way purchasing is done. \n\nThe State of California provides an example of benefit-seeking policy. In recent years, the numbers of hybrid cars in California has increased dramatically, in part because of policy changes in Federal law that provided USD $1,500 in tax credits (since phased out) as well as the use of high-occupancy vehicle lanes to hybrid owners (no loew hybrid vehicles). In this case, the organization (state and/or federal government) created an effect (increased ownership and use of hybrid vehicles) through policy (tax breaks, highway lanes). \n\nPolicies frequently have side effects or unintended consequences. Because the environments that policies seek to influence or manipulate are typically complex adaptive systems (e.g. governments, societies, large companies), making a policy change can have counterintuitive results. For example, a government may make a policy decision to raise taxes, in hopes of increasing overall tax revenue. Depending on the size of the tax increase, this may have the overall effect of reducing tax revenue by causing capital flight or by creating a rate so high that citizens are deterred from earning the money that is taxed. (See the Laffer curve.) \n\nThe policy formulation process theoretically includes an attempt to assess as many areas of potential policy impact as possible, to lessen the chances that a given policy will have unexpected or unintended consequences. \n\nIn political science, the policy cycle is a tool used for the analyzing of the development of a policy item. It can also be referred to as a \"stagist approach\", \"stages heuristic\" or \"stages approach\". It is thus a rule of thumb rather than the actual reality of how policy is created, but has been influential in how political scientists looked at policy in general. It was developed as a theory from Harold Lasswell's work.\n\nOne version by James E. Anderson, in his \"Public Policy-Making\" (1974) has the following stages:\n\nAn eight step policy cycle is developed in detail in \"The Australian Policy Handbook\" by Peter Bridgman and Glyn Davis: (now with Catherine Althaus in its 4th and 5th editions)\n\n\nThe Althaus, Bridgman & Davis model is heuristic and iterative. It is and not meant to be or predictive. Policy cycles are typically characterized as adopting a classical approach, and tend to describe processes from the perspective of policy decision makers. Accordingly, some postpositivist academics challenge cyclical models as unresponsive and unrealistic, preferring systemic and more complex models. They consider a broader range of actors involved in the policy space that includes civil society organisations, the media, intellectuals, think tanks or policy research institutes, corporations, lobbyists, etc.\n\nPolicies are typically promulgated through official written documents. Policy documents often come with the endorsement or signature of the executive powers within an organization to legitimize the policy and demonstrate that it is considered in force. Such documents often have standard formats that are particular to the organization issuing the policy. While such formats differ in form, policy documents usually contain certain standard components including :\n\nSome policies may contain additional sections, including:\n\nThe American political scientist Theodore J. Lowi proposed four types of policy, namely distributive, redistributive, regulatory and constituent in his article 'Four systems of Policy, Politics and Choice' and in 'American Business, Public Policy, Case Studies and Political Theory'.\nPolicy addresses the intent of the organization, whether government, business, professional, or voluntary. Policy is intended to affect the 'real' world, by guiding the decisions that are made. Whether they are formally written or not, most organizations have identified policies.\n\nPolicies may be classified in many different ways. The following is a sample of several different types of policies broken down by their effect on members of the organization.\n\nDistributive policies extend goods and services to members of an organization, as well as distributing the costs of the goods/services amongst the members of the organization. Examples include government policies that impact spending for welfare, public education, highways, and public safety, or a professional organization's benefits plan.\n\nRegulatory policies, or mandates, limit the discretion of individuals and agencies, or otherwise compel certain types of behavior. These policies are generally thought to be best applied when good behavior can be easily defined and bad behavior can be easily regulated and punished through fines or sanctions. An example of a fairly successful public regulatory policy is that of a highway speed limit.\n\nConstituent policies create executive power entities, or deal with laws. Constituent policies also deal with Fiscal Policy in some circumstances.\n\nPolicies are dynamic; they are not just static lists of goals or laws. Policy blueprints have to be implemented, often with unexpected results. Social policies are what happens 'on the ground' when they are implemented, as well as what happens at the decision making or legislative stage.\n\nWhen the term policy is used, it may also refer to:\n\nThe actions the organization actually takes may often vary significantly from stated policy. This difference is sometimes caused by political compromise over policy, while in other situations it is caused by lack of policy implementation and enforcement. Implementing policy may have unexpected results, stemming from a policy whose reach extends further than the problem it was originally crafted to address. Additionally, unpredictable results may arise from selective or idiosyncratic enforcement of policy.\n\nTypes of policy analysis include: \n\n\nThese qualifiers can be combined, so one could, for example, have a stationary-memoryless-index policy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6401516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6401516", "title": "Professional and working class conflict in the United States", "text": "Professional and working class conflict in the United States\n\nIn the United States there has long been a conflict between the working class majority and the professional class. The conflict goes back to the workers revolution and age of unionized labor in the late nineteenth century. Since the 1870s and the rise of professionalism, the daily routine of American workers has been largely designed by professionals instead of foremen.\n\nToday, most American workers –many of whom earn middle-range incomes and work in white-collar occupations – are usually not resentful of the professionals, though a feeling of disconnect persists. Even nowadays there is a large visible discrepancy between professionals whose main job duties include visualizing and directing the day of other workers and those who carry out the orders. While the work of professionals and managers is usually largely self-directed and appeals to the interest of the individual, that of middle-range income white-collar and blue-collar workers is closely supervised and tends to greatly stray from the worker's actual interests.\n\nYet another reason for resentment toward the professional middle class on the part of the working class stems from the embedded feelings of anti-intellectualism. When combined working class workers seem to often be under the impression that their better paid, professional managers are not actually \"doing anything\" as most of their duties are to conceptualize and outline their ideas.\n\nIn the 1960s, tensions between classes flared up again. The student protestors, many of whom had deferments and were therefore exempt from fighting in the Vietnam War, were generally the youth of the professional middle class. Though the student protestors envisioned solidarity with the working class as a means of opposing \"establishment\" policies with regard to war, race, and other social issues, the student protestors' lack of support for the Vietnam War, as well as generalized antipathy toward youthful rebellion, alienated the working classes.\n\nIn modern-day America, a common view among some members of the working class or less privileged members of the statistical middle class is that while the professional middle class is paid better, they are less directly involved in the production of goods and services than those of the working class. This difference in pay coupled with the impression that professionals and managers are less hands-on in their work often evokes an image of unearned privilege in the minds of working class persons. Conversely, the fact that working class persons generally work with their hands may lead those of the middle-class to assume that those of the working class are incapable of abstract, intellectual reasoning. One must also consider that most professionals tend to work in their fields of interest; thus work may not be as perceived as dreadful and menial by them. For working class persons, however, the contrary may be true. This difference in job satisfaction tends to be perceived by working class persons as further proof of unearned privileged among their professional managers, further adding to class tension.\n\nAdditionally middle-class persons may lack direct experience in relating to working-class persons outside of a formal workplace environment. Examples of interactions between both classes other than the common worker/manager interaction include that of consultations with physicians or therapists. Author Barbara Ehrenreich suggests that these relationships will often lead to the unconscious assumption of class privilege on the part of middle-class individuals in their dealings with members of the working class.\n\nOverall working class Americans are most likely to encounter a professional middle class persons in a situation where the latter either directs or advises the former. Meaning that working class persons usually do not converse with professionals unless they are receiving instructions or being given advice. Likewise, members of the contemporary middle class are increasingly unlikely to interact with working-class persons outside of a supervisor/employee setting, and will rarely attempt to know or relate to working-class individuals as individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "28465322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28465322", "title": "Radical evil", "text": "Radical evil\n\nRadical evil () is a phrase used by German philosopher Immanuel Kant in \"Religion within the Bounds of Reason Alone\" (1793), one representing the Christian term, radix malorum.\n\nThere Kant writes:\n\n"}
{"id": "11656608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11656608", "title": "Royal Copenhagen 2010 plaquettes", "text": "Royal Copenhagen 2010 plaquettes\n\nRoyal Copenhagen 2010 plaquettes are a series of small, collectible plates produced by Danish factories, Aluminia and Royal Copenhagen. The numbered and named series of 3-1/4” (80 mm) faience miniplates or \"plaquettes\" are generally round, though a few are square. The most common colors are moderate to deep blue on a white background, though some have additional colors.\n\nOn the front, each has a scene depicting boats, landscapes, people, animals, steeples, buildings, statues, bridges, windmills, and more. Some also have a date on the outside edge. A variety of artists have provided the detailed artwork, including Kai Lange, Jørgen Nielsen, and Sven Vestergaard (1932-).\n\nOn the back, each plaquette has two pierced holes so the plaquettes can be hung for display. In addition to the number 2010, most (though not all) have an identification number, along with a description (usually in Danish, all capital letters) of the front scene. Some have the words “ROYAL COPENHAGEN DENMARK FAJENCE”, or just ‘DENMARK”. Some have the factory mark, three wavy lines one atop another. Some have a monogram. Some have the Royal Copenhagen modified beehive mark: a capital \"A\" representing the Aluminia factory with three wavy lines, representing Royal Copenhagen, as cross strokes. All plates manufactured after 1969 have a crown and the words \"Royal Copenhagen Denmark\".\n\nEarl Nelson Newman wrote and privately printed a small hard-cover book in 1973 entitled \"The Danish Royal Copenhagen Plaquettes: 2010 Series\". This book contains pictures and descriptions of plates #1-#85, and the special series featuring American Presidents, zoo animals, and antique autos.\n\nBecause there was nearly no information/literatur about the \"2010\" Series,Carsten Pedersen (a collector himself) wrote a collector's catalogue in 2010.\nThe catalogue describes about 448 miniplates (plaquettes) from the \"2010\" series and other series (old and new) from Royal\nCopenhagen, Aluminia, Köbenhavns Fajancefabrik and Bing & Gröndahl, Copenhagen.\nThe catalogue was privately printed and entitled \"Royal Copenhagen, Aluminia, Bing & Gröndahl - Plaquetten-Miniplates Series 2010 and special editions\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1199964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1199964", "title": "Second-language acquisition", "text": "Second-language acquisition\n\nSecond-language acquisition (SLA), second-language learning, or L2 (language 2) acquisition, is the process by which people learn a second language. Second-language acquisition is also the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process. The field of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics, but also receives research attention from a variety of other disciplines, such as psychology and education.\n\nA central theme in SLA research is that of \"interlanguage\", the idea that the language that learners use is not simply the result of differences between the languages that they already know and the language that they are learning, but that it is a complete language system in its own right, with its own systematic rules. This interlanguage gradually develops as learners are exposed to the targeted language. The order in which learners acquire features of their new language stays remarkably constant, even for learners with different native languages, and regardless of whether they have had language instruction. However, languages that learners already know can have a significant influence on the process of learning a new one. This influence is known as \"language transfer\".\n\nThe primary factor driving SLA appears to be the language input that learners receive. Learners become more advanced the longer they are immersed in the language they are learning, and the more time they spend doing free voluntary reading. The input hypothesis developed by linguist Stephen Krashen makes a distinction between language acquisition and language learning (acquisition–learning distinction), claiming that acquisition is a subconscious process, whereas learning is a conscious one. According to this hypothesis, the acquisition process in L2 (Language 2) is the same as L1 (Language 1) acquisition. The learning process is consciously learning and inputting the language being learned. However, this goes as far as to state that input is all that is required for acquisition. Subsequent work, such as the interaction hypothesis and the comprehensible output hypothesis, has suggested that opportunities for output and for interaction may also be necessary for learners to reach more advanced levels.\n\nResearch on how exactly learners acquire a new language spans a number of different areas. Focus is directed toward providing proof of whether basic linguistic skills are innate (nature), acquired (nurture), or a combination of the two attributes. Cognitive approaches to SLA research deal with the processes in the brain that underpin language acquisition, for example how paying attention to language affects the ability to learn it, or how language acquisition is related to short-term and long-term memory. Sociocultural approaches reject the notion that SLA is a purely psychological phenomenon, and attempt to explain it in a social context. Some key social factors that influence SLA are the level of immersion, connection to the L2 community, and gender. Linguistic approaches consider language separately from other kinds of knowledge, and attempt to use findings from the wider study of linguistics to explain SLA. There is also a considerable body of research about how SLA can be affected by individual factors such as age and learning strategies. A commonly discussed topic regarding age in SLA is the critical period hypothesis, which suggests that individuals lose the ability to fully learn a language after a particular age in childhood. Another topic of interest in SLA is the differences between adult and child learners. Learning strategies are commonly categorized as learning or communicative strategies, and are developed to improve their respective acquisition skills. Affective factors are emotional factors that influence an individual's ability to learn a new language. Common affective factors that influence acquisition are anxiety, personality, social attitudes, and motivation.\n\nIndividuals may also lose a language through a process called second-language attrition. This is often caused by lack of use or exposure to a language over time. The severity of attrition depends on a variety of factors including level of proficiency, age, social factors, and motivation at the time of acquisition. Finally, classroom research deals with the effect that language instruction has on acquisition.\n\n\"Second language\" refers to any language learned in addition to a person's first language; although the concept is named \"second\"-language acquisition, it can also incorporate the learning of third, fourth, or subsequent languages. Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do; it does not refer to practices in language teaching, although teaching can affect acquisition. The term \"acquisition\" was originally used to emphasize the non-conscious nature of the learning process, but in recent years \"learning\" and \"acquisition\" have become largely synonymous.\n\nSLA can incorporate heritage language learning, but it does not usually incorporate bilingualism. Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a language, not the process itself, and see the term as referring to native-like fluency. Writers in fields such as education and psychology, however, often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism. SLA is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language; rather, the learning of second languages and the learning of foreign languages involve the same fundamental processes in different situations.\n\nThe academic discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics. It is broad-based and relatively new. As well as the various branches of linguistics, second-language acquisition is also closely related to psychology, cognitive psychology, and education. To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself, the terms \"second-language acquisition research\", \"second-language studies\", and \"second-language acquisition studies\" are also used.\n\nSLA research began as an interdisciplinary field, and because of this it is difficult to identify a precise starting date. However, two papers in particular are seen as instrumental to the development of the modern study of SLA: Pit Corder's 1967 essay \"The Significance of Learners' Errors\", and Larry Selinker's 1972 article \"Interlanguage\". The field saw a great deal of development in the following decades. Since the 1980s, SLA has been studied from a variety of disciplinary perspectives, and theoretical perspectives. In the early 2000s, some research suggested an equivalence between the acquisition of human languages and that of computer languages (e.g. Java) by children in the 5 to 11 year age window, though this has not been widely accepted among educators. Significant approaches in the field today are: systemic functional linguistics, sociocultural theory, cognitive linguistics, Noam Chomsky's universal grammar, skill acquisition theory and connectionism.\n\nThere has been much debate about exactly how language is learned, and many issues are still unresolved. There are many theories of second-language acquisition, but none are accepted as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers. Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of SLA, this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future. Although attempts have been made to provide a more unified account that tries to bridge first language acquisition and second language learning research. \n\nStephen Krashen divides the process of second-language acquisition into five stages: preproduction, early production, speech emergence, intermediate fluency, and advanced fluency. The first stage, preproduction, is also known as the silent period. Learners at this stage have a receptive vocabulary of up to 500 words, but they do not yet speak their second language. Not all learners go through a silent period. Some learners start speaking straight away, although their output may consist of imitation rather than creative language use. Others may be required to speak from the start as part of a language course. For learners that do go through a silent period, it may last around three to six months.\n\nThe second of Krashen's stages of acquisition is early production, during which learners are able to speak in short phrases of one or two words. They can also memorize chunks of language, although they may make mistakes when using them. Learners typically have both an active and receptive vocabulary of around 1000 words. This stage normally lasts for around six months.\n\nThe third stage is speech emergence. Learners' vocabularies increase to around 3000 words during this stage, and they can communicate using simple questions and phrases. They may often make grammatical errors.\n\nThe fourth stage is intermediate fluency. At this stage, learners have a vocabulary of around 6000 words, and can use more complicated sentence structures. They are also able to share their thoughts and opinions. Learners may make frequent errors with more complicated sentence structures.\n\nThe final stage is advanced fluency, which is typically reached somewhere between five and ten years of learning the language. Learners at this stage can function at a level close to native speakers.\n\nKrashen has also developed a number of hypotheses discussing the nature of second language learners' thought processes and the development of self-awareness during second language acquisition. The most prominent of these hypotheses are Monitor Theory and the Affective Filter hypothesis .\n\nThe time taken to reach a high level of proficiency can vary depending on the language learned. In the case of native English speakers, some estimates were provided by the Foreign Service Institute (FSI) of the U.S. Department of State, which compiled approximate learning expectations for a number of languages for their professional staff (native English speakers who generally already know other languages). Of the 63 languages analyzed, the five most difficult languages to reach proficiency in speaking and reading, requiring 88 weeks (2200 class hours), are Arabic, Cantonese, Mandarin, Japanese, and Korean. The Foreign Service Institute and the National Virtual Translation Center both note that Japanese is typically more difficult to learn than other languages in this group.\n\nAdults who learn a second language differ from children learning their first language in at least three ways: children are still developing their brains whereas adults have mature minds, and adults have at least a first language that orients their thinking and speaking. Although some adult second-language learners reach very high levels of proficiency, pronunciation tends to be non-native. This lack of native pronunciation in adult learners is explained by the critical period hypothesis. When a learner's speech plateaus, it is known as fossilization.\n\nSome errors that second-language learners make in their speech originate in their first language. For example, Spanish speakers learning English may say \"Is raining\" rather than \"It is raining\", leaving out the subject of the sentence. This kind of influence of the first language on the second is known as \"negative\" language transfer. French speakers learning English, however, do not usually make the same mistake of leaving out \"it\" in \"It is raining.\" This is because pronominal and impersonal sentence subjects can be omitted (or as in this case, are not used in the first place) in Spanish but not in French. The French speaker knowing to use a pronominal sentence subject when speaking English is an example of \"positive\" language transfer. It is important to note that not all errors occur in the same ways; even two individuals with the same native language learning the same second language still have the potential to utilize different parts of their native language. Likewise, these same two individuals may develop near-native fluency in different forms of grammar.\n\nAlso, when people learn a second language, the way they speak their first language changes in subtle ways. These changes can be with any aspect of language, from pronunciation and syntax to the gestures the learner makes and the language features they tend to notice. For example, French speakers who spoke English as a second language pronounced the /t/ sound in French differently from monolingual French speakers. This kind of change in pronunciation has been found even at the onset of second-language acquisition; for example, English speakers pronounced the English /p t k/ sounds, as well as English vowels, differently after they began to learn Korean. These effects of the second language on the first led Vivian Cook to propose the idea of multi-competence, which sees the different languages a person speaks not as separate systems, but as related systems in their mind.\n\n\"Learner language\" is the written or spoken language produced by a learner. It is also the main type of data used in second-language acquisition research. Much research in second-language acquisition is concerned with the internal representations of a language in the mind of the learner, and in how those representations change over time. It is not yet possible to inspect these representations directly with brain scans or similar techniques, so SLA researchers are forced to make inferences about these rules from learners' speech or writing.\n\nOriginally, attempts to describe learner language were based on comparing different languages and on analyzing learners' errors. However, these approaches weren't able to predict all the errors that learners made when in the process of learning a second language. For example, Serbo-Croat speakers learning English may say \"What does Pat doing now?\", although this is not a valid sentence in either language.\n\nTo explain this kind of systematic error, the idea of the \"interlanguage\" was developed. An interlanguage is an emerging language system in the mind of a second-language learner. A learner's interlanguage is not a deficient version of the language being learned filled with random errors, nor is it a language purely based on errors introduced from the learner's first language. Rather, it is a language in its own right, with its own systematic rules. It is possible to view most aspects of language from an interlanguage perspective, including grammar, phonology, lexicon, and pragmatics.\n\nThere are three different processes that influence the creation of interlanguages:\n\nThe concept of interlanguage has become very widespread in SLA research, and is often a basic assumption made by researchers.\n\nIn the 1970s, several studies investigated the order in which learners acquired different grammatical structures. These studies showed that there was little change in this order among learners with different first languages. Furthermore, it showed that the order was the same for adults and children, and that it did not even change if the learner had language lessons. This supported the idea that there were factors other than language transfer involved in learning second languages, and was a strong confirmation of the concept of interlanguage.\n\nHowever, the studies did not find that the orders were exactly the same. Although there were remarkable similarities in the order in which all learners learned second-language grammar, there were still some differences among individuals and among learners with different first languages. It is also difficult to tell when exactly a grammatical structure has been learned, as learners may use structures correctly in some situations but not in others. Thus it is more accurate to speak of \"sequences\" of acquisition, in which specific grammatical features in a language are acquired before or after certain others but the overall order of acquisition is less rigid. For example, if neither feature B nor feature D can be acquired until feature A has been acquired and if feature C cannot be acquired until feature B has been acquired but if the acquisition of feature D does not require the possession of feature B (or, therefore, of feature C), then both acquisition order (A, B, C, D) and acquisition order (A, D, B, C) are possible.\n\nAlthough second-language acquisition proceeds in discrete sequences, it does not progress from one step of a sequence to the next in an orderly fashion. There can be considerable variability in features of learners' interlanguage while progressing from one stage to the next. For example, in one study by Rod Ellis a learner used both \"No look my card\" and \"Don't look my card\" while playing a game of bingo. A small fraction of variation in interlanguage is \"free variation\", when the learner uses two forms interchangeably. However, most variation is \"systemic variation\", variation that depends on the context of utterances the learner makes. Forms can vary depending on linguistic context, such as whether the subject of a sentence is a pronoun or a noun; they can vary depending on social context, such as using formal expressions with superiors and informal expressions with friends; and also, they can vary depending on psycholinguistic context, or in other words, on whether learners have the chance to plan what they are going to say. The causes of variability are a matter of great debate among SLA researchers.\n\nOne important difference between first-language acquisition and second-language acquisition is that the process of second-language acquisition is influenced by languages that the learner already knows. This influence is known as \"language transfer\". Language transfer is a complex phenomenon resulting from interaction between learners’ prior linguistic knowledge, the target-language input they encounter, and their cognitive processes. Language transfer is not always from the learner’s native language; it can also be from a second language, or a third. Neither is it limited to any particular domain of language; language transfer can occur in grammar, pronunciation, vocabulary, discourse, and reading.\n\nLanguage transfer often occurs when learners sense a similarity between a feature of a language they already know and a feature of the interlanguage they have developed. If this happens, the acquisition of more complicated language forms may be delayed in favor of simpler language forms that resemble those of the language the learner is familiar with. Learners may also decline to use some language forms at all if they are perceived as being too distant from their first language.\n\nLanguage transfer has been the subject of several studies, and many aspects of it remain unexplained. Various hypotheses have been proposed to explain language transfer, but there is no single widely accepted explanation of why it occurs.\n\nThe primary factor affecting language acquisition appears to be the input that the learner receives. Stephen Krashen took a very strong position on the importance of input, asserting that comprehensible input is all that is necessary for second-language acquisition. Krashen pointed to studies showing that the length of time a person stays in a foreign country is closely linked with his level of language acquisition. Further evidence for input comes from studies on reading: large amounts of free voluntary reading have a significant positive effect on learners' vocabulary, grammar, and writing. Input is also the mechanism by which people learn languages according to the universal grammar model.\n\nThe type of input may also be important. One tenet of Krashen's theory is that input should not be grammatically sequenced. He claims that such sequencing, as found in language classrooms where lessons involve practicing a \"structure of the day\", is not necessary, and may even be harmful.\n\nWhile input is of vital importance, Krashen's assertion that \"only\" input matters in second-language acquisition has been contradicted by more recent research. For example, students enrolled in French-language immersion programs in Canada still produced non-native-like grammar when they spoke, even though they had years of meaning-focused lessons and their listening skills were statistically native-level. Output appears to play an important role, and among other things, can help provide learners with feedback, make them concentrate on the form of what they are saying, and help them to automatize their language knowledge. These processes have been codified in the theory of comprehensible output.\n\nResearchers have also pointed to interaction in the second language as being important for acquisition. According to Long's interaction hypothesis the conditions for acquisition are especially good when interacting in the second language; specifically, conditions are good when a breakdown in communication occurs and learners must negotiate for meaning. The modifications to speech arising from interactions like this help make input more comprehensible, provide feedback to the learner, and push learners to modify their speech.\n\nMuch modern research in second-language acquisition has taken a cognitive approach. Cognitive research is concerned with the mental processes involved in language acquisition, and how they can explain the nature of learners' language knowledge. This area of research is based in the more general area of cognitive science, and uses many concepts and models used in more general cognitive theories of learning. As such, cognitive theories view second-language acquisition as a special case of more general learning mechanisms in the brain. This puts them in direct contrast with linguistic theories, which posit that language acquisition uses a unique process different from other types of learning.\n\nThe dominant model in cognitive approaches to second-language acquisition, and indeed in all second-language acquisition research, is the computational model. The computational model involves three stages. In the first stage, learners retain certain features of the language input in short-term memory. (This retained input is known as \"intake\".) Then, learners convert some of this intake into second-language knowledge, which is stored in long-term memory. Finally, learners use this second-language knowledge to produce spoken output. Cognitive theories attempt to codify both the nature of the mental representations of intake and language knowledge, and the mental processes that underlie these stages.\n\nIn the early days of second-language acquisition research on interlanguage was seen as the basic representation of second-language knowledge; however, more recent research has taken a number of different approaches in characterizing the mental representation of language knowledge. There are theories that hypothesize that learner language is inherently variable, and there is the functionalist perspective that sees acquisition of language as intimately tied to the function it provides. Some researchers make the distinction between \"implicit\" and \"explicit\" language knowledge, and some between \"declarative\" and \"procedural\" language knowledge. There have also been approaches that argue for a \"dual-mode system\" in which some language knowledge is stored as rules, and other language knowledge as items.\n\nThe mental processes that underlie second-language acquisition can be broken down into micro-processes and macro-processes. Micro-processes include attention; working memory; integration and restructuring. Restructuring is the process by which learners change their interlanguage systems; and \"monitoring\" is the conscious attending of learners to their own language output. Macro-processes include the distinction between intentional learning and incidental learning; and also the distinction between explicit and implicit learning. Some of the notable cognitive theories of second-language acquisition include the nativization model, the multidimensional model and processability theory, emergentist models, the competition model, and skill-acquisition theories.\n\nOther cognitive approaches have looked at learners' speech production, particularly learners' speech planning and communication strategies. Speech planning can have an effect on learners' spoken output, and research in this area has focused on how planning affects three aspects of speech: complexity, accuracy, and fluency. Of these three, planning effects on fluency has had the most research attention. Communication strategies are conscious strategies that learners employ to get around any instances of communication breakdown they may experience. Their effect on second-language acquisition is unclear, with some researchers claiming they help it, and others claiming the opposite.\n\nFrom the early days of the discipline researchers have also acknowledged that social aspects play an important role. There have been many different approaches to sociolinguistic study of second-language acquisition, and indeed, according to Rod Ellis, this plurality has meant that \"sociolinguistic SLA is replete with a bewildering set of terms referring to the social aspects of L2 acquisition\". Common to each of these approaches, however, is a rejection of language as a purely psychological phenomenon; instead, sociolinguistic research views the social context in which language is learned as essential for a proper understanding of the acquisition process.\n\nEllis identifies three types of social structure that affect acquisition of second languages: sociolinguistic setting, specific social factors, and situational factors. Sociolinguistic setting refers to the role of the second language in society, such as whether it is spoken by a majority or a minority of the population, whether its use is widespread or restricted to a few functional roles, or whether the society is predominantly bilingual or monolingual. Ellis also includes the distinction of whether the second language is learned in a natural or an educational setting. Specific social factors that can affect second-language acquisition include age, gender, social class, and ethnic identity, with ethnic identity being the one that has received most research attention. Situational factors are those that vary between each social interaction. For example, a learner may use more polite language when talking to someone of higher social status, but more informal language when talking with friends.\n\nImmersion programs provide a sociolinguistic setting that facilitates second-language acquisition. Immersion programs are educational programs where children are instructed in an L2 language. Although the language of instruction is the L2 language, the curriculum parallels that of non-immersion programs and clear support exists in the L1 language, as the teachers are all bilingual. The goal of these programs is to develop a high level of proficiency in both the L1 and L2 languages. Students in immersion programs have been shown to have greater levels of proficiency in their second language than students who receive second language education only as a subject in school. This is especially true in terms of their receptive skills. Also, students who join immersion programs earlier generally have greater second-language proficiency than their peers who join later. However, students who join later have been shown to gain native-like proficiency. Although immersion students' receptive skills are especially strong, their productive skills may suffer if they spend the majority of their time listening to instruction only. Grammatical skills and the ability to have precise vocabulary are particular areas of struggle. It is argued that immersion is necessary, but not sufficient for the development of native-like proficiency in a second language. Opportunities to engage in sustained conversation, and assignments that encourage syntactical, as well as semantic development help develop the productive skills necessary for bilingual proficiency.\n\nA learner's sense of connection to their in-group, as well as to the community of the target language emphasize the influence of the sociolinguistic setting, as well as social factors within the second-language acquisition process. Social Identity Theory argues that an important factor for second language acquisition is the learner's perceived identity in relation to the community of the language being learned, as well as how the community of the target language perceives the learner. Whether or not a learner feels a sense of connection to the community or culture of the target language helps determine their social distance from the target culture. A smaller social distance is likely to encourage learners to acquire the second language, as their investment in the learning process is greater. Conversely, a greater social distance discourages attempts to acquire the target language. However, negative views not only come from the learner, but the community of the target language might feel greater social distance to the learner, limiting the learner's ability to learn the language. Whether or not bilingualism is valued by the culture or community of the learner is an important indicator for the motivation to learn a language.\n\nGender, as a social factor, also influences SLA. Females have been found to have higher motivation and more positive attitudes than males for second-language acquisition. However, females are also more likely to present higher levels of anxiety, which may inhibit their ability to efficiently learn a new language.\n\nThere have been several models developed to explain social effects on language acquisition. Schumann's Acculturation Model proposes that learners' rate of development and ultimate level of language achievement is a function of the \"social distance\" and the \"psychological distance\" between learners and the second-language community. In Schumann's model the social factors are most important, but the degree to which learners are comfortable with learning the second language also plays a role. Another sociolinguistic model is Gardner's socio-educational model, which was designed to explain classroom language acquisition. Gardner's model focuses on the emotional aspects of SLA, arguing that positive motivation contributes to an individuals willingness to learn L2; furthermore, the goal of an individual to learn a L2 is based on the idea that the individual has a desire to be part of a culture, in other words, part of a (the targeted language) mono-linguistic community. Factors, such as \"integrativeness\" and \"attitudes towards the learning situation\" drive motivation. The outcome of positive motivation is not only linguistic, but non-linguistic, such that the learner has met the desired goal. Although there are many critics of Gardner's model, nonetheless many of these critics have been influenced by the merits that his model holds. The inter-group model proposes \"ethnolinguistic vitality\" as a key construct for second-language acquisition. Language socialization is an approach with the premise that \"linguistic and cultural knowledge are \"constructed\" through each other\", and saw increased attention after the year 2000. Finally, Norton's theory of social identity is an attempt to codify the relationship between power, identity, and language acquisition.\n\nA unique approach to SLA is Sociocultural theory. It was originally developed by Lev Vygotsky and his followers. Central to Vygotsky's theory is the concept of a zone of proximal development (ZPD). The ZPD notion states that social interaction with more advanced target language users allows one to learn language at a higher level than if they were to learn language independently. Sociocultural theory has a fundamentally different set of assumptions to approaches to second-language acquisition based on the computational model. Furthermore, although it is closely affiliated with other social approaches, it is a theory of mind and not of general social explanations of language acquisition. According to Ellis, \"It is important to recognize... that this paradigm, despite the label 'sociocultural' does not seek to explain how learners acquire the cultural values of the L2 but rather how knowledge of an L2 is internalized through experiences of a sociocultural nature.\"\n\nLinguistic approaches to explaining second-language acquisition spring from the wider study of linguistics. They differ from cognitive approaches and sociocultural approaches in that they consider language knowledge to be unique and distinct from any other type of knowledge. The linguistic research tradition in second-language acquisition has developed in relative isolation from the cognitive and sociocultural research traditions, and as of 2010 the influence from the wider field of linguistics was still strong. Two main strands of research can be identified in the linguistic tradition: approaches informed by universal grammar, and typological approaches.\n\nTypological universals are principles that hold for all the world's languages. They are found empirically, by surveying different languages and deducing which aspects of them could be universal; these aspects are then checked against other languages to verify the findings. The interlanguages of second-language learners have been shown to obey typological universals, and some researchers have suggested that typological universals may constrain interlanguage development.\n\nThe theory of universal grammar was proposed by Noam Chomsky in the 1950s, and has enjoyed considerable popularity in the field of linguistics. It focuses on describing the linguistic competence of an individual. He believed that children not only acquire language by learning descriptive rules of grammar; he claimed that children \"creatively\" play and form words as they learn language, creating meaning of these words, as opposed to the mechanism of memorizing language. It consists of a set of \"principles\", which are universal and constant, and a set of \"parameters\", which can be set differently for different languages. The \"universals\" in universal grammar differ from typological universals in that they are a mental construct derived by researchers, whereas typological universals are readily verifiable by data from world languages. It is widely accepted among researchers in the universal grammar framework that all first-language learners have access to universal grammar; this is not the case for second-language learners, however, and much research in the context of second-language acquisition has focused on what level of access learners may have.\n\nUniversal grammar theory can account for some of the observations of SLA research. For example, L2-users often display knowledge about their L2 that they have not been exposed to. L2-users are often aware of ambiguous or ungrammatical L2 units that they have not learned from any external source, nor from their pre-existing L1 knowledge. This unsourced knowledge suggests the existence of a universal grammar.\n\nThere is considerable variation in the rate at which people learn second languages, and in the language level that they ultimately reach. Some learners learn quickly and reach a near-native level of competence, but others learn slowly and get stuck at relatively early stages of acquisition, despite living in the country where the language is spoken for several years. The reason for this disparity was first addressed with the study of language learning aptitude in the 1950s, and later with the \"good language learner studies\" in the 1970s. More recently research has focused on a number of different factors that affect individuals' language learning, in particular strategy use, social and societal influences, personality, motivation, and anxiety. The relationship between age and the ability to learn languages has also been a subject of long-standing debate.\n\nThe issue of age was first addressed with the critical period hypothesis. The strict version of this hypothesis states that there is a cut-off age at about 12, after which learners lose the ability to fully learn a language. However, the exact age marking the end of the critical period is debated, and ranges from age 6 to 13, with many arguing that it is around the onset of puberty. This strict version has since been rejected for second-language acquisition, as some adult learners have been observed who reach native-like levels of pronunciation and general fluency. However, in general, adult learners of a second-language rarely achieve the native-like fluency that children display, despite often progressing faster in the initial stages. This has led to speculation that age is indirectly related to other, more central factors that affect language learning.\n\nChildren who acquire two languages from birth are called simultaneous bilinguals. In these cases, both languages are spoken to the children by their parents or caregivers and they grow up knowing the two languages. These children generally reach linguistic milestones at the same time as their monolingual peers. Children who do not learn two languages from infancy, but learn one language from birth, and another at some point during childhood, are referred to as sequential bilinguals. People often assume that a sequential bilingual's first language is their most proficient language, but this is not always the case. Over time and experience, a child's second language may become his or her strongest. This is especially likely to happen if a child's first language is a minority language spoken at home, and the child's second language is the majority language learned at school or in the community before the age of five. Proficiency for both simultaneous and sequential bilinguals is dependent upon the child's opportunities to engage in meaningful conversations in a variety of contexts.\n\nOften simultaneous bilinguals are more proficient in their languages than sequential bilinguals. One argument for this is that simultaneous bilinguals develop more distinct representations of their languages, especially with regards to phonological and semantic levels of processing. This would cause learners to have more differentiation between the languages, leading them to be able to recognize the subtle differences between the languages that less proficient learners would struggle to recognize. Learning a language earlier in life would help develop these distinct representations of language, as the learner's first language would be less established. Conversely, learning a language later in life would lead to more similar semantic representations.\n\nAlthough child learners more often acquire native-like proficiency, older child and adult learners often progress faster in the initial stages of learning. Older child and adult learners are quicker at acquiring the initial grammar knowledge than child learners, however, with enough time and exposure to the language, children surpass their older peers. Once surpassed, older learners often display clear language deficiencies compared to child learners. This has been attributed to having a solid grasp on the first language or mother tongue they were first immersed into. Having this cognitive ability already developed can aid the process of learning a second language since there is a better understanding of how language works. For this same reason interaction with family and further development of the first language is encouraged along with positive reinforcement. The exact language deficiencies that occur past a certain age are not unanimously agreed upon. Some believe that only pronunciation is affected, while others believe other abilities are affected as well. However, some differences that are generally agreed upon include older learners having a noticeable accent, a smaller vocabulary, and making several linguistic errors.\n\nOne explanation for this difference in proficiency between older learners and younger learners involves Universal Grammar. Universal Grammar is a debated theory that suggests that people have innate knowledge of universal linguistic principles that is present from birth. These principles guide children as they learn a language, but its parameters vary from language to language. The theory assumes that, while Universal Grammar remains into adulthood, the ability to reset the parameters set for each language is lost, making it more difficult to learn a new language proficiently. Since adults have an already established native language, the language acquisition process is much different for them, than young learners. The rules and principles that guide the use of the learners' native language plays a role in the way the second language is developed.\n\nSome nonbiological explanations for second-language acquisition age differences include variations in social and psychological factors, such as motivation; the learner's linguistic environment; and the level of exposure. Even with less advantageous nonbiological influences, many child learners attain a greater level of proficiency than adult learners with more advantageous nonbiological influences.\n\nConsiderable attention has been paid to the strategies learners use to learn a second language. Strategies have been found to be of critical importance, so much so that \"strategic competence\" has been suggested as a major component of communicative competence. Strategies are commonly divided into \"learning strategies\" and \"communicative strategies\", although there are other ways of categorizing them. Learning strategies are techniques used to improve learning, such as mnemonics or using a dictionary. Communicative strategies are strategies a learner uses to convey meaning even when he or she doesn't have access to the correct form, such as using pro-forms like \"thing\", or using non-verbal means such as gestures. If learning strategies and communicative strategies are used properly language acquisition is successful. Some points to keep in mind while learning an additional language are: providing information that is of interest to the student, offering opportunities for the student to share their knowledge and teaching appropriate techniques for the uses of the learning resources available.\n\nAnother strategy may include intentional ways to acquire or improve official their second language skills. Adult immigrants and/or second language learners seeking to acquire a second language can engage in different activities to receive and share knowledge as well improve their learning; some of these include:\n\n\nThe learner's attitude to the learning process has also been identified as being critically important to second-language acquisition. Anxiety in language-learning situations has been almost unanimously shown to be detrimental to successful learning. Anxiety interferes with the mental processing of language because the demands of anxiety-related thoughts create competition for mental resources. This results in less available storage and energy for tasks required for language processing. Not only this, but anxiety is also usually accompanied by self-deprecating thoughts and fear of failure, which can be detrimental to an individual's ability to learn a new language. Learning a new language provides a unique situation that may even produce a specific type of anxiety, called language anxiety, that affects the quality of acquisition. Also, anxiety may be detrimental for SLA because it can influence a learner's ability to attend to, concentrate on, and encode language information. It may affect speed and accuracy of learning. Further, the apprehension created as a result of anxiety inhibits the learner's ability to retrieve and produce the correct information.\n\nA related factor, personality, has also received attention. There has been discussion about the effects of extravert and introvert personalities. Extraverted qualities may help learners seek out opportunities and people to assist with L2 learning, whereas introverts may find it more difficult to seek out such opportunities for interaction. However, it has also been suggested that, while extraverts might experience greater fluency, introverts are likely to make fewer linguistic errors. Further, while extraversion might be beneficial through its encouragement of learning autonomously, it may also present challenges as learners may find reflective and time-management skills to be difficult. However, one study has found that there were no significant differences between extraverts and introverts on the way they achieve success in a second language.\n\nOther personality factors, such as conscientiousness, agreeableness, and openness influence self-regulation, which helps L2 learners engage, process meaning, and adapt their thoughts, feelings, and actions to benefit the acquisition process. SLA research has shown conscientiousness to be associated with time-management skills, metacognition, analytic learning, and persistence; agreeableness to effort; and openness to elaborative learning, intelligence, and metacognition. Both genetics and the learner's environment impact the personality of the learner, either facilitating or hindering an individual's ability to learn.\n\nSocial attitudes such as gender roles and community views toward language learning have also proven critical. Language learning can be severely hampered by cultural attitudes, with a frequently cited example being the difficulty of Navajo children in learning English.\n\nAlso, the motivation of the individual learner is of vital importance to the success of language learning. Motivation is influenced by goal salience, valence, and self-efficacy. In this context, goal salience is the importance of the L2 learner's goal, as well as how often the goal is pursued; valence is the value the L2 learner places on SLA, determined by desire to learn and attitudes about learning the L2; and self-efficacy is the learner's own belief that he or she is capable of achieving the linguistic goal. Studies have consistently shown that \"intrinsic motivation\", or a genuine interest in the language itself, is more effective over the long term than \"extrinsic motivation\", as in learning a language for a reward such as high grades or praise. However, motivation is dynamic and, as a L2 learner's fluency develops, their extrinsic motivation may evolve to become more intrinsic. Learner motivation can develop through contact with the L2 community and culture, as learners often desire to communicate and identify with individuals in the L2 community. Further, a supportive learning environment facilitates motivation through the increase in self-confidence and autonomy. Learners in a supportive environment are more often willing to take on challenging tasks, thus encouraging L2 development.\n\nAttrition is the loss of proficiency in a language caused by a lack of exposure to or use of a language. It is a natural part of the language experience as it exists within a dynamic environment. As the environment changes, the language adapts. One way it does this is by using L1 as a tool to navigate the periods of change associated with acquisition and attrition. A learner's L2 is not suddenly lost with disuse, but its communicative functions are slowly replaced by those of the L1.\n\nSimilar to second-language acquisition, second-language attrition occurs in stages. However, according to the regression hypothesis, the stages of attrition occur in reverse order of acquisition. With acquisition, receptive skills develop first, and then productive skills, and with attrition, productive skills are lost first, and then receptive skills.\n\nAge, proficiency level, and social factors play a role in the way attrition occurs. Most often younger children are quicker than adults to lose their L2 when it is left unused. However, if a child has established a high level of proficiency, it may take him or her several years to lose the language. Proficiency level seems to play the largest role in the extent of attrition. For very proficient individuals, there is a period of time where very little, if any, attrition is observed. For some, residual learning might even occur, which is the apparent improvement within the L2. Within the first five years of language disuse, the total percentage of language knowledge lost is less for a proficient individual than for someone less proficient. A cognitive psychological explanation for this suggests that a higher level of proficiency involves the use of schemas, or mental representations for linguistic structures. Schemas involve deeper mental processes for mental retrieval that are resistant to attrition. As a result, information that is tied to this system is less likely to experience less extreme attrition than information that is not. Finally, social factors may play an indirect role in attrition. In particular, motivation and attitude influence the process. Higher levels of motivation, and a positive attitude toward the language and the corresponding community may lessen attrition. This is likely due to the higher level of competence achieved in L2 when the learner is motivated and has a positive attitude.\n\nWhile considerable SLA research has been devoted to language learning in a natural setting, there have also been efforts made to investigate second-language acquisition in the classroom. This kind of research has a significant overlap with language education, and it is mainly concerned with the effect that instruction has on the learner. It also explores what teachers do, the classroom context, the dynamics of classroom communication. It is both qualitative and quantitative research.\n\nThe research has been wide-ranging. There have been attempts made to systematically measure the effectiveness of language teaching practices for every level of language, from phonetics to pragmatics, and for almost every current teaching methodology. This research has indicated that many traditional language-teaching techniques are extremely inefficient. cited in It is generally agreed that pedagogy restricted to teaching grammar rules and vocabulary lists does not give students the ability to use the L2 with accuracy and fluency. Rather, to become proficient in the second language, the learner must be given opportunities to use it for communicative purposes.\n\nAnother area of research has been on the effects of corrective feedback in assisting learners. This has been shown to vary depending on the technique used to make the correction, and the overall focus of the classroom, whether on formal accuracy or on communication of meaningful content. There is also considerable interest in supplementing published research with approaches that engage language teachers in action research on learner language in their own classrooms. As teachers become aware of the features of learner language produced by their students, they can refine their pedagogical intervention to maximize interlanguage development.\n\n"}
{"id": "20990147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20990147", "title": "Sfax Archaeological Museum", "text": "Sfax Archaeological Museum\n\nThe Sfax Archaeological Museum is an archaeological museum located in Sfax, Tunisia.\n\n"}
{"id": "5189038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5189038", "title": "Shuswap language", "text": "Shuswap language\n\nThe Shuswap language (; Shuswap: \"Secwepemctsín\" ) is the traditional language of the Shuswap people (Shuswap: \"Secwépemc\" ) of British Columbia. An endangered language, Shuswap is spoken mainly in the Central and Southern Interior of British Columbia between the Fraser River and the Rocky Mountains. According to the First Peoples' Cultural Council, 200 people speak Shuswap as a mother tongue, and there are 1,190 semi-speakers.\n\nShuswap is the northernmost of the Interior Salish languages, which are spoken in Canada and the Pacific Northwest of the United States. There are two dialects of Shuswap:\nThe other Northern Interior Salish languages are Lillooet and Thompson.\n\nMost of the material in this article is from Kuipers (1974).\n\nAn interface to Facebook is available in Secwepemctsín. The First Voices website has a Secwepemctsin (Eastern Dialect) Community Portal, a Secwepemc Community Portal, and a Splatsin (Eastern dialect) Community Portal for language learning. A November 2012 article estimated about 150 fluent speakers, mostly over 65, adding that \"an estimated 400 students are learning the language, and \"the majority of Secwepemctsin learners are under age 19.\" Secwépemc language applications are available for iOS. The Secwepemc Cultural Education Society released Nintendo DSi software in 2013 that teaches Secwepemctsin to young children. A language authority of ten elder fluent speakers, from East, West, and the North, are recording pronunciation. A Language Tutor is also in preparation, exportable onto CD for use offline. \n\nA \"“Cseyseten” (language nest) at Adam’s Lake is conducted entirely in the Secwepemc language. On January 21, 2013, Thompson Rivers University began offering a Secwepemctsín language class taught by fluent speaker Janice Billy.\n\nThe Shuswap language has many consonants which the Roman alphabet is typically not used to represent. Two systems of representing Shuswap sounds are in use. One is the system used in Kuipers’ 298 page monograph on the language. It uses some letters which are not part of the Roman alphabet. The other system is based on one devised by Randy Bouchard of the British Columbia Language Project. It is based entirely on the Roman alphabet. The one exception is the symbol 7, which is used to represent a consonant.\n\nThe Bouchard style system appears to be the one in use among Shuswap people themselves. Aside from the different symbols used, other differences exist between the two systems. The Kuipers’ system makes extensive use of automatic alternations. For example, the letter n is sometimes pronounced , sometimes , and sometimes . The choice of pronunciation is based on automatically applied rules. The reader is expected to know these rules.\n\nThe rules cover three classes of changes: (1) automatic darkening of vowels (Non-automatic darkening of vowels is covered under Phonological Processes.), (2) automatic alternation of sonorants between consonantal and vocalic pronunciation, and (3) alternation of plain velars, uvulars, and laryngeals with the corresponding rounded sounds. The Bouchard style system does not appear to require the reader to know so many alternation rules. Examples of words written in the Bouchard style can be seen on two websites. These websites do not contain enough examples to show how all the automatic alternations are handled in the Bouchard style system. Therefore the Kuipers’ system of spelling is used in this article.\n\nThe Shuswap language has five full vowels, , , , , , and one reduced vowel, .\n\nAn additional vowel, , is rare and often replaced by or . Its description is ambiguous. Kuipers gave its phonetic value as , indicating a mid unrounded back vowel, but described it in words as a mid central vowel.\n\nThere are restrictions on the distribution of vowels. The vowel is restricted to unstressed syllables. The vowels and also occur in unstressed syllables, but only in a few words. Vowels and are restricted to stressed syllables.\n\nThe previous table shows the normal pronunciation of the vowels. Three of the full vowels, , , and , are subject to an automatic process called darkening, which changes how these vowels are pronounced. Automatic darkening is predictable; it occurs before uvular obstruents and before or after uvularized sonorants. It is not reflected in the Kuipers spelling system.\n\nConsonants are divided into two classes, obstruents and sonorants. In the tables which follow, pronunciations are given in square brackets in IPA transcription. The notation is the same as that of Kuipers (1974).\n\nThe variation of sonorants between consonantal and vocalic pronunciations is automatic, and is not indicated in the Kuipers’ spelling system. The rule for determining this as follows:\n\nA Shuswap word consists of a stem, to which can be added various affixes. Very few words contain two roots. Any stressed root can have an unstressed alternative, where the vowel is replaced by [ə].\n\nMost roots have the form CVC or CC (the latter only if unstressed). Other roots are CVCC or CCVC.\n\nSuffixes begin either with a stressed vowel (dropped in forms where the root is stressed) or a consonant. Prefixes generally have the form C- or CC-.\n\nStress in Shuswap is not very prominent, and occurs only in longer words. Since and are always stressed and never is, stress is usually fairly simple to predict.\n\nAlthough Kuipers (1974) does not specify, in many cases the glottalized or rounded version of a consonant seems to represent an allophonic variation. For example, consonants which have a rounded form are rounded before and after . However, glottalization can be contrastive (the root q’ey-, \"set up a structure,\" versus q’ey’-, \"write\") or allophonic (the root q’ey- appears with a glottalized final consonant in s-t-q‘ey’-qn, \"shed\"). Consonant reduplication can also have an effect on glottalization.\n\nThere are a number of ways in which sounds are affected by their environments. Resonants in the vocalic position are preceded by an automatic schwa, for example the word (\"daughter\"), pronounced . The darkening of vowels, as described below, is another case.\n\nThe distribution of vowels is quite complex. The vowels have the following main variants:\n and are unchanged. The environment around uvulars and velars produces a different set of variants, including occasional slight diphthongs. Additionally, some roots cause darkened vowels to appear in suffixes; one example is the prefix -ekst (\"hand, arm\"), which is darkened in x°əl’-akst. The darkened vowels are as follows:\n\nShuswap's affixation system is robust. A nominalizing prefix s- is used to derive nouns from verbs, and prefixes to indicate a resulting state are added to verbs. A sample of Shuswap's small number of prefixes is below:\n\nMost nouns contain suffixes. Suffixes are also used to indicate transitive, intransitive, and imperative verbs. Below are a few examples taken from the extensive collection of Shuswap suffixes:\n\nShuswap makes extensive use of reduplication. Some examples of simple reduplication are:\n\nIn addition, there are several types of complex reduplication, involving patterns such as 11V12, 112V23, and 1123V34 (where 1 represents C, etc.).\n\nNot all types of reduplication are productive and functional. Total reduplication indicates plurality and consonant reduplication is diminutive, but most other reduplications are difficult to explain.\n\nIn addition to reduplication, root morphemes can be modified by interior glottalization, such that a root CVC appears as CʔVC. Although the process is not productive, many recorded forms refer to a state, for example [pʔeɣ] (cooled off) from [peɣns] (he cools it off). Consonant reduplication can proceed as usual with interior glottalization.\n\nWord order in Shuswap is relatively free; syntactical relationships are easily conveyed by the case marking system. However, it is common but not necessary for the predicate to head the sentence.\n\nSentences with predicate first:\n\nSentences with subject first (rare):\n\nShuswap uses two cases: the absolutive, for the subject of an intransitive verb, the subject of a transitive verb, and the object of a transitive verb; and the relative, for all other cases (for example, the actor of a passive verb, or an adverb).\n\nAbsolutive Case:\n\nRelative Case:\n\nNouns and verbs appear in for different forms, depending on their syntactic surroundings.\n\n\nThe following is a list of roots (listed separately or as their simplest derivatives), and a selection of words derived from these roots by affixes.\n\n"}
{"id": "36279740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36279740", "title": "Snježana Kordić", "text": "Snježana Kordić\n\nSnježana Kordić (; born 29 October 1964) is a Croatian linguist. In addition to her work in syntax, she has written on sociolinguistics. Kordić is known among non-specialists for numerous articles against the puristic and prescriptive language policy in Croatia. Her 2010 book on language and nationalism popularises the theory of pluricentric languages in the Balkans.\n\nSnježana Kordić obtained a degree from Osijek University (1988) and an M.Sci. in Linguistics from the Faculty of Philosophy at the Zagreb University (1992).\nShe earned her Ph.D. in Zagreb (1993). In Germany she obtained a habilitation in Slavic Philology (qualification at professorship level) from the University of Münster in 2002.\n\nKordić taught and conducted research at a number of Croatian and German universities. From 1990-91 she was an assistant at the Osijek University, and from 1991-95 she was an assistant at the Zagreb University. Then she moved to Germany and was a lecturer at the Bochum University from 1993-98. She later served as an associate professor at the Münster University from 1998-2004. After that, she was a visiting professor at the Humboldt University of Berlin from 2004-05. From 2005-07 she was a lecturer at the Frankfurt University.\n\nSnježana Kordić’s main focal points in research and teaching are grammar, syntax, text linguistics, pragmatics, lexicology, corpus linguistics, sociolinguistics and language policy. She has authored over 150 linguistic publications, among which are a textbook, a grammar book, and three monographs, which have been translated into English, German or Spanish. Each of her books on syntactic issues has gotten more positive reviews from around the world than any other linguistic book published in Croatia.\n\nHer on relative clauses was well received. Many reviewers commented favourably on it. Ian Press wrote:\n\nHans-Peter Stoffel underlined:\n\nIn her , which has also been reviewed with approval, Snježana Kordić examines Serbo-Croatian words that oscillate between having a full lexical status and a functional grammatical status, a factor that has complicated their lexicographic and grammatical description in dictionaries and grammars. These are mainly lexemes which have a high frequency usage and are used in many different ways. The monograph provides information on the syntax, semantics and pragmatics of the usage of selected pronouns, nouns, particle, conjunctions and verbs.\n\nMatthew Feeney concluded his review by saying: \n\nPeter Herrity emphasised that:\n\nWayles Browne, an American expert on relative clauses, commented both of the books. He noted that Kordić's first book on relative clauses is: In the same review article, Browne pointed out that Kordić's second monograph\n\n]Snježana Kordić's deals with sociolinguistic topics, such as language policy in Croatia, theory of pluricentric languages, and how identity, culture, nation, and history can be misused by politically motivated linguists. Kordić ascertains that since 1990, purism and prescriptivism have been the main features of language policy in Croatia. A ban on certain words perceived as \"Serbian\" (which were for the most part merely international) and the idea that a word is more \"Croatian\" if fewer Croats understood it, resulted in the widespread impression that no one but a handful of linguists in Croatia knew the standard language.\n\nWith a plethora of quotations from German, French, Polish and English linguistic literature, Kordić demonstrates that the language of Croats, Serbs, Bosniaks and Montenegrins is a polycentric language, with four standard variants spoken in Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThese variants do differ slightly, as is the case with other polycentric languages (English, German, French, Portuguese, and Spanish, among others), but not to a degree which would justify considering them as different languages. This fact suggests by no means a re-establishment of a common state, since standard variants of all other polycentric languages are spoken in different countries, e.g. English in the US, UK, Australia, and Canada, German in Austria, Germany, and Switzerland. The above examples demonstrate that the pluricentricity of language does not imply linguistic unification. Each nation can codify its variant on its own.\n\nKordić criticizes a romantic view of language and nation, which is very widespread in Croatia. The romantic idea that the nation and the language must match has its roots in 19th century Germany, but by the middle of the 20th century, the scientific community abandoned that idea. She also argues against political interference in linguistics.\n\nAs regards the name of the language, Kordić discusses only the name to be used in linguistics, leaving non-linguists to name the language any way they prefer.\n\nIn his review of the monograph on language and nationalism (\"\"), Zoran Milutinović commented:\nReviewer Goran Miljan wrote:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\na. The Durieux-Editor Nenad Popović was honored by the German newspaper \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" as one of the six persons that rendered outstanding services to peace in the world in 2010. The newspaper wrote that Nenad Popović published Snježana Kordić’s book \"Jezik i nacionalizam\" in 2010. The original text is as follows: \"In diesem Jahr machte Popovićs Verlag mit einem Buch der Autorin Snježana Kordić auf dem ganzen Balkan Furore. In ihrem Werk ‘Die Sprache und der Nationalismus’ kommt die in Zagreb und Münster ausgebildete Sprachwissenschaftlerin zum Schluss, dass die südslawischen Völker – Serben, Kroaten, Bosnier und Montenegriner – eine gemeinsame Standardsprache haben. Die Studie war ein Schlag ins Gesicht der Nationalisten, die nach der staatlichen Unabhängigkeit nun versuchen, das Serbokroatische, die Lingua franca der Region, zu begraben und eigene Sprachen zu erfinden.\"\n\nb. In Croatia, \"Jezik i nacionalizam\" was among the five titles nominated for book of the decade in the field of peacebuilding, nonviolence and human rights.\n"}
{"id": "1834924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1834924", "title": "Spoiled child", "text": "Spoiled child\n\nA spoiled child or spoiled brat is a derogatory term aimed at children who exhibit behavioral problems from being overindulged by their parents. Children and teens who are perceived as spoiled may be described as \"overindulged\", \"grandiose\", \"narcissistic\" or \"egocentric-regressed\". Perception is important to take into account, because when the child has a neurological condition such as autism, ADHD or intellectual disability, observers may judge them as \"spoiled\" without understanding the whole picture. There is no accepted scientific definition of what \"spoiled\" means, and professionals are often unwilling to use the label because it is considered vague and derogatory. Being spoiled is not recognized as a mental disorder in any of the medical manuals, such as the ICD-10 or the DSM-IV, or its successor, the DSM-5.\n\nRichard Weaver, in his work \"Ideas Have Consequences\", introduced the term “spoiled child psychology” in 1948. In 1989, Bruce McIntosh coined the term the \"spoiled child syndrome\". The syndrome is characterized by \"excessive, self-centered, and immature behavior\". It includes lack of consideration for other people, recurrent temper tantrums, an inability to handle the delay of gratification, demands for having one's own way, obstructiveness, and manipulation to get their way. McIntosh attributed the syndrome to \"the failure of parents to enforce consistent, age-appropriate limits\", but others, such as Aylward, note that temperament is probably a contributory factor. It is important to note that the temper tantrums are \"recurrent\". McIntosh observes that \"many of the problem behaviors that cause parental concern are unrelated to spoiling as properly understood\". Children may have occasional temper tantrums without them falling under the umbrella of \"spoiled\". Extreme cases of spoiled child syndrome, in contrast, will involve \"frequent\" temper tantrums, physical aggression, defiance, destructive behavior, and refusal to comply with even the simple demands of daily tasks. This can be similar to the profile of children diagnosed with Pathological Demand Avoidance, which is part of the autism spectrum.\n\n\nChildren with underlying medical or mental health problems may exhibit some of the symptoms. Indeed, where the difficulties are not predicated in the parental-child nexus, many loving parents may be judged as \"spoiling\" instead of affirmed. Speech or hearing disorders, and attention deficit disorder, may lead to children's failing to understand the limits set by parents. Children who have recently experienced a stressful event, such as the separation of the parents (divorce) or the birth or death of a close family relative, may also exhibit some or all of the symptoms. Children of parents who themselves have psychiatric disorders may manifest some of the symptoms, because the parents behave erratically, sometimes failing to perceive their children's behavior correctly, and thus fail to properly or consistently define limits of normal behavior for them.\n\nParents can seek advice, support, and encouragement to empower them in parenthood from diverse sources.\n\nTreatment by a physician involves assessing parental competence, and whether the parents set limits correctly and consistently. Physicians should rule out dysfunction in the family, referring dysfunctional families for family therapy and dysfunctional parents for parenting skills training, and counsel parents in methods for modifying their child's behavior.\n\nIn early infancy, a baby wants food, contact, and comfort by crying. This behavior should be viewed as a distress signal indicating that some biological need is not being met. Although parents sometimes worry about spoiling their children by giving them too much attention, specialists in child development maintain that babies cannot be spoiled in the first six months of life. During the first year, children are developing a sense of basic trust and attachment. In general, the more attention and care they receive from their parents, the better.\n\nAlfred Adler (1870–1937) believed that \"only children\" were likely to experience a variety of problems from their situation. Adler theorized that because only children have no rivals for their parents' affection, they will become pampered and spoiled, particularly by their mother. He suggested that this could later cause interpersonal difficulties if the person is not universally liked and admired.\n\nA 1987 quantitative review of 141 studies on 16 different personality traits contradicted Adler's theory. This research found no evidence of any \"spoilage\" or other pattern of maladjustment in only children. The major finding was that only children are not very different from children with siblings. The main exception to this was the finding that only children are generally higher in achievement motivation. A second analysis revealed that only children, first-borns, and children with only one sibling score higher on tests of verbal ability than later-borns and children with multiple siblings.\n\nSpoiling in early childhood tends to create characteristic reactions that persist, fixed, into later life. These can cause significant social problems. Spoiled children may have difficulty coping with situations such as teachers scolding them or refusing to grant extensions on homework assignments, playmates refusing to allow them to play with their toys and playmates refusing playdates with them, a loss in friends, failure in employment, and failure with personal relationships. As adults, spoiled children may experience problems with anger management, professionalism, and personal relationships; a link with adult psychopathy has been observed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33757429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33757429", "title": "Stone circles in the British Isles and Brittany", "text": "Stone circles in the British Isles and Brittany\n\nThe stone circles in the British Isles and Brittany are a megalithic tradition of monuments consisting of standing stones arranged in rings. These were constructed from 3300 to 900 BCE in Britain, Ireland and Brittany. It has been estimated that around 4,000 of these monuments were originally constructed in this part of north-western Europe during this period. Around 1,300 of them are recorded, the others having been destroyed.\n\nAlthough stone circles have been erected throughout history by a variety of societies and for a variety of reasons, in the Late Neolithic and Early Bronze Ages, this particular tradition was limited to the British Isles and the neighbouring area of continental Europe now known as Brittany. The rings were not distributed equally across this area, but were concentrated in several highland regions: north-eastern and central Scotland, the Lake District, the south-west peninsula of England, and the north and south-west of Ireland. Sparser groupings can also be found in Caithness, the Outer Hebrides, the Peak District, the Wicklow Mountains, Wales and Wessex.\n\nTheir original purpose is not fully known, but archaeological investigation has shed some light on it. It is widely thought that they served a ritual or ceremonial purpose, particularly in relation to solar and/or lunar alignments. In a minority of cases, some were also used as cemeteries, with burials being made in and around the circle.\n\nAntiquarian investigation into the circles began in the Early Modern period, intensifying after the publications of notable English antiquarian William Stukeley in the 18th century. At the time, scholars understood little of prehistoric Britain, with the megalithic circles typically being ascribed either to the druids of the Iron Age or to the Danish settlers of Early Medieval times. \n\nIn the 20th century, with the development of archaeology, archaeologists could investigate the circles in more detail. They dated them to the Late Neolithic and Bronze ages. Since the late 20th century, many of these monuments were adopted as \"sacred sites\" by adherents of contemporary pagan religions such as Neo-Druidism, Wicca and the Goddess movement, and they had used the sites as places to conduct their magico-religious rites.\n\nDuring the Neolithic, or 'New Stone Age', there were extensive cultural changes across north-western Europe. The introduction of agriculture ended the hunter-gatherer lifestyle which had dominated in the preceding Palaeolithic ('Old Stone Age') and Mesolithic ('Middle Stone Age') periods.\n\nDuring the Early Neolithic in Brittany and the British Isles, the megalithic tradition of building chambered tombs for the dead had waxed and waned. The chambered tomb tradition lasted between about 4000 and 3500 BCE, although an earlier example, at Carrowmore in County Sligo, has been disputably dated to 5000 BCE. The length of this tradition led prehistorian Mike Parker Pearson to note that it was \"a relatively short-lived fashion in archaeological terms.\" In southern England, 84% of chambered tombs were built in a north-east to south-east orientation, which probably had some special significance for their builders.\n\nIn some parts of the British Isles, architectural changes were made to the style of chambered tomb, which may have been a forerunner of the later circular design of the stone rings. In the later Clyde tombs of south-western Scotland and the court-cairns of northern Ireland, crescent-shaped forecourts were constructed inside the tombs. This would have enabled more people to enter the tomb and take part in any rites there in sunlight.\n\nDuring the Early Neolithic another form of monument was also constructed in the British Isles, now known by archaeologists as causewayed enclosures. These consisted of massive circular ditch-and-bank earthworks. Construction of causewayed enclosures in the lowland regions of Southern England flourished around 3800 BCE, but by 3200 BCE almost all of them had been abandoned by their users. No equivalents have been found in the highland areas of northern Britain. Despite having excavated a number of these sites across southern Britain, archaeologists do not know their exact purpose. It has been suggested that they were camps, markets, cattle kraals or occasional settlements, or perhaps ritual centres for the celebration of seasonal festivals or cemeteries.\n\nAs the transition from the Early Neolithic to the Late Neolithic took place in around 3000 BCE, there was much economic and technological continuity. But there was considerable change in the style of monuments erected, particularly in southern and eastern England. By that date, the long barrows, causewayed enclosures, and cursuses which had predominated in the Early Neolithic had ceased to be built. They were replaced by circular monuments of various kinds. These include not only stone circles, but also earthen henges and timber circles. This transition toward circular monuments had symbolic associations. As the archaeologist Aubrey Burl stated, \"There was a change from the cramped, gloomy chamber of a tomb to the unroofed, wide ring, a change from darkness to light, from the dead to the living, from the grave to the sky.\" Similar observations were made by the historian Ronald Hutton, who commented that the circular shape of the rings \"mirrors the sun, the full moon and the bounds of the horizon\" and that such a shape can also be \"profoundly egalitarian\".\n\nThis transition was, according to historian Ronald Hutton, \"as fundamental as that from the Mesolithic had been.\" Archaeological pollen analysis has shown that it was a period when scrub and weeds were spreading over what had formerly been cultivated fields, and forests that had previously been cleared began to grow back. Chambered tombs were blocked up and abandoned, implying that people were ceasing to use them as cultic sites. Several former causewayed enclosures were converted into defensive structures with gateways and walls, and in some cases they were attacked. Evidence for conflict has been found at Carn Brea in Cornwall, Hambledon Hill in Dorset, and Crickley Hill in Gloucestershire. Various archaeologists have suggested that this was a period of particular turmoil within the British Isles, perhaps caused by an overuse of land, the failure of crops, famine, plague, climatic change, or an increase in population that was not supported by the food supply.\n\nThe start of the Bronze Age in Britain was signalled by the introduction of bronze, an alloy of copper and usually tin. Ideologically, there is no evidence for a change in Brittany and the British Isles at this time, with communities continuing to construct megalithic stone circles. The archaeologists J.M. Coles and A.F. Harding noted that across western Europe, the Bronze Age was \"closely and logically connected\" with the Late Neolithic which preceded it, and that the marker that is applied between the two by contemporary archaeologists is \"arbitrary\".\n\nThe historian Ronald Hutton noted that, along with the chambered long barrows of the Early Neolithic, stone circles are one of the most prominent forms of monument produced in prehistoric Britain. Despite the commonly used term \"stone circles\", many of these monuments are not true circles, but are instead ellipses or ovals. The stone circles are not always found in isolation from other forms of monument and often intersect with timber and earth structures. For this reason, the archaeologist Richard Bradley cautioned against understanding stone circles, timber circles, and earthen henges as distinct \"types\" of monument.\n\nThe archaeologist Alexander Thom suggested that the stone circles fell into four broad classes: circles, flattened circles, egg-shaped rings, and ellipses.\n\nSome stone circles, such as that at Stanton Drew in Somerset, are approached by a short alignment of paired stones. There are also stone avenues that link different monuments in the landscape, such as the West Kennet Avenue which links the Avebury henge to The Sanctuary. In some cases, the stone circles survive in such a damaged state that it is not possible to know what they originally looked like.\n\nIn some examples, timber posts were replaced with stone ones, perhaps with the intention of making the monument more durable and protecting it from decay. In others, it is possible that both wooden and stone features of the circle were contemporary with each other.\n\nLike henges, the stone circles are almost exclusively found in the British Isles. The distribution of the stone circles is distinctive as it is broader than that of the henges. They are found in most areas of Britain where stone is available, except the island's south-eastern corner.\nThey are most densely concentrated in south-western Britain and near Aberdeen. There is much diversity in the design of these circles, both between different regions and within them. According to Mike Parker Pearson, this is \"perhaps unsurprising for a thousand-year fashion\".\n\nThe archaeologist and stone circle specialist Aubrey Burl noted that the stone circle builders would have had to undertake \"careful planning\" before they erected these monuments. There was much that they had to take into consideration: the choice of location, the size of the ring, the transport of the heavy stones, the laying out of the circle or ellipse, and the preparation of stone holes. They may have also had to plot astronomical alignments, making the task more difficult.\n\nMost stone circles were constructed upon flat ground, although some were instead built on a slope. At some sites, such as Kiltierney in County Fermanagh, the land was flattened especially for this purpose, although in other cases it is clear that the land had been flattened by earlier communities, who had used the land for settlement or agriculture.\n\nAaron Watson has argued that various circles were located in a particular position to give the appearance of occupying the centre of the world, representing a microcosm of the surrounding area.\n\nIn some instances it appears that the choice of material used was important. For instance, at the Ring of Brodgar the stones used in the circle were produced from a variety of different sources.\n\nVery little is known about the process of quarrying the stone and transporting it to the sites of the circles. One exception is at Vestra Fiold in Orkney, where Colin Richards led an excavation that determined that the stones used for the Orcadian stone circles were cut from a horizontal seam of bedrock that was located just below the surface. These had been eased over a large pit and supported on stone trestles, after which wooden rollers and a sled were likely positioned underneath, allowing the megalith to be moved. One of these stones, which weighed over 10 tonnes, had been left in its original position poised on stone supports, to be discovered by the archaeological excavators.\n\nBurl noted that archaeologists assumed that for every stone circle that survived to the late 20th century, there would have been two lost. From the 1300 surviving examples, Burl calculated that there might have originally been around 4000 stone circles across Britain, Ireland and Brittany.\n\nSince the 1950s, archaeologists have been able to use radiocarbon dating of the material around the stones in order to accurately date their original construction. As of 2000, the earliest known radiocarbon dating of a stone circle was from the Lochmaben Stone in Dumfriesshire, which was dated to 2525 ± 85 BCE, whilst the latest examples came from Sandy Road in Perth (1200 ± 150 BCE), from Dromberg in County Cork (790 ± 80 BCE), and from the Five-Stone ring of Cashelkeety in County Kerry (715 ± 50 BCE). Burl said that, the calibration of these dates indicated that the stone circle tradition existed between 3300 and 900 BCE.\nThe size of the megalithic rings varied, perhaps according to the number of people who would be using it during ceremonies. Burl calculated that the largest stone circle in terms of both diameter and area was Stanton Drew in Somerset, with a diameter of and an area of 9,887 m² (2.44 acres). Second came the Ring of Brodgar in Orkney at in diameter and 8,430 m² (2.08 acres) in area, whilst third was Avebury in Wiltshire, which had a diameter of and an area of 8,236m² (2.04 acres). However, Burl did not count the outer stone circle at Avebury, which has a diameter of , making it Britain's largest stone circle. All of the largest circles were found in or near earlier henge monuments. Such gargantuan monuments were rare. Burl calculated that most of the megalithic rings (92%) had an average diameter of , with an average area of 150 m² (1615 ft²).\n\nThe archaeologist Alexander Thom proposed that the stone circles were built using a unit of measurement which he called the \"megalithic yard\", about . He came to this conclusion following more than forty years of surveying the monuments, aided by his son Archibald Stevenson Thom.\nParker Pearson stated that \"the idea of a standard unit of measurement is very plausible\" but perhaps not as regular as Thom and others have argued. In 1980, Burl noted that the idea of Thom's Megalithic Yard \"remain[ed] contentious\".\n\nThom also argued that the builders of these circles were accomplished astronomers and deliberately included astronomical alignments in the rings.\nAccording to Parker Pearson, however, many of the circles do not appear to be based on any astronomical alignment. Pearson cautioned that Late Neolithic/Bronze Age conceptions of cosmology were likely very different from modern understandings of astronomy.\n\nThere has been much analysis and debate about these monuments. No simple explanations have emerged. The original purposes of the stone ring monuments has been widely debated by antiquarians and archaeologists for several centuries.\n\nThese stone circles typically show very little evidence of human visitation during the period immediately following their creation. This suggests that they were not sites used for rituals that left archaeologically visible evidence. They may have been deliberately left as \"silent and empty monuments\". The archaeologists Mike Parker Pearson and Ramilsonina suggested that in Neolithic Britain, stone was associated with the dead and wood with the living. Bradley noted that this interpretation was \"consistent with the archaeological evidence from Britain\", where evidence for feasting and other human activities have been found at a range of timber sites but not at their stone counterparts. At the latter sites, there has been evidence of human remains. Bradley suggested that the stone circles may have been spaces \"devoted to the dead\". Other archaeologists have suggested that the stone might not represent ancestors, but rather other supernatural entities, such as deities.\n\nAubrey Burl's gazetteer lists 1,303 stone circles in Britain, Ireland and Brittany. The largest number of these are found in Scotland, with 508 sites recorded. There are 316 in England; 187 in Ireland; 156 in Northern Ireland; 81 in Wales; 49 in Brittany; and 6 in the Channel Isles.\n\nThere are two known stone circles on Exmoor: Porlock Stone Circle and Withypool Stone Circle.\n\nWessex contains the two best known, though most atypical stone circles, Avebury and Stonehenge.\n\nThe area of modern Dorset has a \"thin scatter\" of stone circles, with nine possible examples known within its boundaries: Hampton Down Stone Circle, Kingston Russell Stone Circle, Nine Stones, and Rempstone Stone Circle remain visible. The archaeologist John Gale described these as \"a small but significant group\" of such monuments. All are located within five miles of the sea. All but Rempstone—which is on the Isle of Purbeck—are located on the chalk hills west of Dorchester. The Dorset circles have a simplistic typology, being of comparatively small size, with none exceeding 28 metres in diameter. All are oval in shape, although perhaps have been altered from their original form. \n\nWith the exception of the sandstone Rempstone circle, all consist of sarsen boulders. Much of this may have been obtained from the \"Valley of Stones\", a location at the foot of Crow Hill near to Littlebredy, which is located within the vicinity of many of these circles. With the exception of the circle at Litton Cheney, none display evidence of any outlying stones or earthworks around the stone circle. The archaeologists Stuart and Cecily Piggott believed that the circles of Dorset were probably of Bronze Age origin, a view endorsed by Burl, who noted that their distribution did not match that of any known Neolithic sites. It is possible that they were not all constructed around the same date. The Piggotts suggested that while they may well be Early Bronze Age in date, it is also possible that \"their use and possibly their construction may last into the Middle and even into the Late Bronze Age\".\nTheir nearest analogies are the circles found on Dartmoor and Exmoor to the west, and the Stanton Drew stone circles to the north. It is also possible that the stone circles were linked to a number of earthen henges erected in Dorset around the same period. On average Dorset's earthen henges are four times larger than the stone circles.\n\nIn what is now northern England, there was a particularly rich stone circle tradition in Cumbria. Several large megalithic rings were constructed here, such as Castlerigg stone circle, Swinside, and Long Meg and Her Daughters.\n\nStone circles exist throughout Scotland, from Ninestane Rig in the far south to more famous examples in the far north and particularly in the islands (where several form part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site). The Callanish Stones are one of the best-known examples in the Outer Hebrides, while Orkney is known for its Neolithic monuments, including the Ring of Brodgar and the Standing Stones of Stenness.\n\nIn some cases, the stones were removed from the rings for use as a building material. In others, the site has been disrupted by natural courses such as trees, the roots of which have shifted the location of the megaliths.\n\nEvidence for the destruction of stone circles first comes from the Late Bronze Age.\n\nFollowing the Christianisation of Britain in the Early Medieval period, various Christian clergyman denounced those pagans who continued to venerate at stones in the landscape, which in some cases perhaps implied stone circles.\n\nBy the Late Mediaeval period, references to prehistoric monuments in the British Isles were rare, and were usually only to note down practical matters, such as that a judicial court would be held near to one or that a farmer's land lay near to one.\nA rare exception is found in the fictionalised \"History of the Kings of Britain\" (c.1136), in which the chronicle's author Geoffrey of Monmouth claimed that Stonehenge had once been the Giants' Ring, and that it had originally been located on Mount Killaraus in Ireland, until the wizard Merlin moved it to Salisbury Plain.\n\nMany 19th century antiquarians produced plans of the circles which were \"inaccurate and slipshod.\"\n\nIn the Mediaeval and Early Modern period onward, much folklore developed around the subject of the stone circles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2260875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2260875", "title": "The North Wind and the Sun", "text": "The North Wind and the Sun\n\nThe North Wind and the Sun is one of Aesop's Fables (Perry Index 46). It is type 298 (Wind and Sun) in the Aarne-Thompson folktale classification. The moral it teaches about the superiority of persuasion over force has made the story widely known. It has also become a chosen text for phonetic transcriptions.\n\nThe story concerns a competition between the North Wind and the Sun to decide which is the stronger of the two. The challenge was to make a passing traveler remove his cloak. However hard the North Wind blew, the traveler only wrapped his cloak tighter to keep warm, but when the Sun shone, the traveler was overcome with heat and soon took his cloak off.\n\nThe fable was well known in Ancient Greece; Athenaeus records that Hieronymus of Rhodes, in his \"Historical Notes\", quoted an epigram of Sophocles against Euripides that parodied the story of Helios and Boreas. It related how Sophocles had his cloak stolen by a boy to whom he had made love. Euripides joked that he had had that boy too, and it did not cost him anything. Sophocles' reply satirises the adulteries of Euripides:\n\"It was the Sun, and not a boy, whose heat stripped me naked;\nas for you, Euripides, when you were kissing someone else's wife\nthe North Wind screwed \"you\". You are unwise, you who sow\nin another's field, to accuse Eros of being a snatch-thief.\"\n\nThe Latin version of the fable first appeared centuries later in Avianus, as \"De Vento et Sole\" (Of the wind and the sun, Fable 4); early versions in English and Johann Gottfried Herder's poetic version in German (\"Wind und Sonne\") also gave it as such. It was only in mid-Victorian times that the title \"The North Wind and the Sun\" began to be used. In fact, the Avianus poem refers to the characters as Boreas and Phoebus, the divinities of the north wind and the sun, and it was under the title \"Phébus et Borée\" that it appeared in La Fontaine's Fables.\n\nGilles Corrozet, who had compiled a fable collection in French verse earlier than La Fontaine, twice featured the contest between the sun and the wind in his emblem books. In \"Hecatomgraphie\" (1540), the first of these, the story is told in a quatrain, accompanied by a woodcut in which a man holds close a fur cloak under the wintry blast while on the other side he strips naked beneath the sun’s rays. It is titled with the moral “More by gentleness than strength” (\"Plus par doulceur que par force\"). The same illustration was used to accompany another poem in Corrozet’s later \"Emblemes\" (1543), which counsels taking enjoyment and being careful as necessity demands, wisely adapting oneself to circumstances in the same way as one dresses differently for winter than for summer.\n\nVictorian versions of the fable give the moral as \"Persuasion is better than force\", but it had been put in different ways at other times. In the Barlow edition of 1667, Aphra Behn taught the Stoic lesson that there should be moderation in everything: \"In every passion moderation choose,/For all extremes do bad effects produce\". In the 18th century, Herder came to the theological conclusion that, while superior force leaves us cold, the warmth of Christ's love dispels it, and Walter Crane's limerick version of 1887 gives a psychological interpretation, \"True strength is not bluster\". But for Guy Wetmore Carryl in his humorous rewriting of the fable, \"The Impetuous Breeze and the Diplomatic Sun\", tact is the lesson to be learned. There the competition is between the man and the wind; the sun only demonstrates the right way of achieving one's end.\n\nWhile most examples draw a moral lesson, La Fontaine's \"Mildness more than violence achieves\" (\"Fables\" VI.3) hints at the political application that was present also in Avianus' conclusion: \"They cannot win who start with threats\". There is evidence that this reading has had an explicit influence on the diplomacy of modern times: in South Korea's Sunshine Policy, for instance, or Japanese relations with the military regime in Myanmar.\n\nJean Restout made a painting of La Fontaine's fable for the Hôtel de Soubise in 1738. This showed a traveller on horseback among mountains under a stormy sky. In his print of the same subject, Jean-Baptiste Oudry reversed the perspective to show the god riding a cloud chariot with the horseback traveller merely a small figure below. This too was the perspective of Gustave Moreau's 1879 watercolour in the series he painted of the fables. In modern times, the fable has been made into a 3-minute animated film for children by the National Film Board of Canada (1972). It also figured as part of a 1987 set of Greek stamps.\nThe fable was the third of five in Anthony Plog's \"Aesop’s Fables\" for narrator, piano and horn (1989/93); it is also one of the five pieces in Bob Chilcott's \"Aesop's Fables\" for piano and choir (2008). And, under the title \"The Wind and the Sun\", the English composer Philip Godfrey (b.1964) has made a setting for children's choir and piano.\n\nLa Fontaine's \"Phébus et Borée\" was choreographed in 2006 by as part of Annie Sellem's composite ballet production of La Fontaine's fables as a 25-minute performance for a male and female dancer. Its creator has commented on the fable's theme that 'it demonstrates people's vulnerability to cosmic forces and the inner links there are between natural events and our life as humans.' But for the Scottish artist Jane Topping (b. 1972), who referenced \"The North Wind and the Sun\" in her 2009 installation, the fable is to be interpreted in the context of subliminal persuasion via images.\n\nIn 2011 Anat Pollack used solo ballet as part of her video installation \"The North Wind and the Sun\", addressing much the same themes as Karine Ponties and Jane Topping. Her artistic statement points out that 'Advanced communication and information systems are altering how information is interpreted and perceived. Interactions within our environments are increasingly information based, ephemeral, and less concrete. To understand how these changes are impacting our personal and social spaces, I have focused on a study of information processing, and the way that memory functions to locate the individual within their world.' All are concerned with the subtle means by which individuals can be manipulated. From this wary point of view, the sun's way of communication may differ in kind but has the same end in view.\n\n The fable is made famous by its use in phonetic descriptions of languages as an illustration of spoken language. In the \"Handbook of the International Phonetic Association\" and the \"Journal of the International Phonetic Association\", a translation of the fable into each language described is transcribed into the International Phonetic Alphabet. It is recommended by the IPA for the purpose of eliciting all phonemic contrasts that occur in English when conducting tests by foreign users or of regional usage. For example, the description of American English in the \"Handbook of the International Phonetic Association\" includes the following as a sample text:\n\n\n\n\nThe fable has also been proposed as a parallel text in comparative linguistics as it provides more natural language than the Lord's Prayer. In addition, impromptu tellings can indicate differences within languages such as dialects or national varieties. The example above, for instance, has \"shined\" where British English usage is \"shone\". The previous IPA handbook transcribed \"shone\" for the Southern British and Scottish versions, but \"began to shine\" for the American English version. For an illustration of New Zealand English, the fable was replaced by \"The Southerly Wind and the Sun\" to make it geographically appropriate.\n\n"}
{"id": "38322360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38322360", "title": "The Three Clever Kings", "text": "The Three Clever Kings\n\n\"The Three Clever Kings\" is a children's fairytale from the anthology \"The Necklace of Princess Fiorimonde\" that was written by Mary De Morgan. The story was illustrated by Walter Crane, first published by MacMillan & CO. in 1886, and later published in a collection called \"The Necklace of Princess Fiorimonde – The Complete Fairy Stories of Mary De Morgan\" by Victor Gollancz Limited in 1963. This collection of fairy tales was digitized in July 2006 and the first E-book was released February 25, 2012. The E-book was produced by David Edwards, Josephine Paolucci, the Online Distributed Proofreading Team, and edited by \"The Project Gutenberg E-book.\"\n\nMary De Morgan was born in 1850 in London, UK. De Morgan was a successful Victorian Era children's short story writer. In her writing career, De Morgan developed three individual collections which started with \"On a Pincushion\" (1877), then \"The Necklace of Princess Fiorimonde\" (1880), and finally, \"The Windfairies\" (1900). The first two collections were successfully published by 1800 and her career as a Victorian Era writer continued to flourish. De Morgan aimed to create stories that recreated her brother's illustrations. Her focus was reading to young children her written works of short stories in the Victorian fairy-tale genres. Tragically, De Morgan died in Egypt in 1907.\n\nKing Roland: An old King who is upon his death-bed and ready to pass on his royalty and all the hard work that comes with the title. He has no sons of his own. Fortunately, King Roland has three nephews that he believes will help take over his duties of being the King. He plans to have the oldest nephew take on the tasks of being a King first and if that shall not work out the next, younger nephew will be of charge and so on.\n\nAldovrand: One of the main round characters who is the oldest of the three nephews to King Roland. His character traits are lazy, self-centered, and ignorant.\n\nAldebert: One of the main characters who is the middle aged nephew to King Roland. As a static character he holds compliant, relaxed, and positive characteristics throughout the short story.\n\nAlderete: One of the main characters; the youngest of the three nephews to King Roland. His characteristic traits that carried through the short story are optimistic, happy, and peaceful.\n\nThe Political Council: These one-dimensional, stock characters consist of Prime Minister, Chancellor, Commander-in-Chief, and Lord High Admiral.\n\nThe Tinker: An old man who travels from house to house mending wares. The tinker's flat character consists of confidence and politeness.\n\nThe Sweeper: A man who cleans the chimneys around town as a hobby and job. The Sweeper's crude characteristics include enthusiastic, comfortable, and obedient.\n\nThe Farmer: A man who works on a farm looking after animals and maintaining the crops. The Farmer is a very kind, patient, and flat character.\n\nThe story tells the cycle of three young men, the king's nephews, who attempt to rule the kingdom after the death of their uncle, King Ronald. The eldest nephew, Aldovrand, is first in line to test his abilities as king. Aldovrand proves to be selfish in nature and demands extreme independence from all. The Prime Minister and Chancellor turns to Aldovrand, asking questions regarding the kingdom. Aldovrand does not like being disturbed by them and decides to run away. While leaving the kingdom Aldovrand runs into a farmer who offers him a job watching his geese. Next in line to test his abilities as king is the second nephew, Aldebert. Aldebert is confronted with conflicts such as increasing the army's wages, repairing the kingdom's city, and also saving money for the kingdom. He grants everyone's wishes but it resulted in great disagreement. Aldebert can not deal with the conflicting decisions and runs away. While leaving the kingdom, Aldebert runs into a tinker, who offeres him a job. Alderete, the last nephew is next to test his abilities as king. Excited to reign, Alderete explores the kingdom and commands that drastic lifestyle changes need to be made. The people in the city starts an uproar and protest against Alderete's demands. The pressure is too much, and Alderete runs away in fear. While he is leaving the kingdom, he runs into a chimney sweeper and becomes his apprentice. In panic, The Prime Minister and Chancellor return to the three nephews pleading for them to become King. All three nephews decline and proceed happily with their new jobs leaving behind any luxuries and power that could have been theirs as King.\n\nWealth, power, and luxuries are not key to one's happiness. Instead, pursue a career that fits one's interests, and happiness will follow.\n\n"}
{"id": "1007642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1007642", "title": "Thebes tablets", "text": "Thebes tablets\n\nThe Thebes tablets have inscriptions in the Mycenaean Greek language of the Linear B script, were discovered in Thebes, Greece. They belong to the Late Helladic IIIB context, contemporary with the finds at Pylos. A first group of 21 fragments was found in the 1963–64 campaign; A further 19 tablets were found in 1970 and 1972. Using Near Eastern cylinder seals associated with the finds, the editors of the published corpus of the whole archive now date the destruction of the \"Kadmeion\", the Mycenaean palace complex at Thebes, and thus the writing of the tablets, some of which were still damp when they were unintentionally fired, to shortly after 1225 BC. Chadwick identified three recognizable Hellenic divinities, Hera, Hermes and Potnia \"the mistress\", among the recipients of wool. He made out a case for \"ko-ma-we-te-ja\", also attested at Pylos, as the name of a goddess.\n\nQuite early, before the more recent discoveries, Frederick Ahl made the provocative suggestion concerning the \"phoinikeia grammata\", the \"Phoenician\" or the \"palm-leaf\" (\"phoinix\") letters: \"Cadmus did bring writing to Thebes, but this writing was not the Phoenician alphabet, but Linear B\".\n\nA substantial additional portion, some 250 tablets, amounting roughly to 5% of the entire Mycenaean corpus from all sites, was discovered in Pelopidou Street and the \"Arsenal\" by Vassilis L. Aravantinos, the current archaeological superintendent of Thebes, from 1993 to 1995, in a rescue excavation. In 1996, a few more tablets were identified in a museum among finds from the 1963–1964 dig in Thebes.\n\nThe number of \"tablets\" given by the editors is actually misleading. For example, as Tom Palaima and Sarah James have independently demonstrated, the \"123 tablets\" of the Fq series actually are many fragments of texts that originally made up between 15 and 18 tablets.\n\nThe French and Italian linguists Louis Godart and Anna Sacconi were charged with the publication of these tablets. During the following years, their preliminary glimpses of the contents, which suggested that the new tablets would reveal a dramatically new view of Mycenaean religion, gave rise to accusations that the project was moving too slowly; when the tablets were finally published in 2001, the impact of their overall content was perceived by some reviewers to be rather less than expected.\n\nMany of the Thebes tablets can be read as containing information on divinities and religious rites; others mention quantities of various commodities. By the sites mentioned, the boundaries of the region controlled by the Theban palace can be estimated: the Theban palace controlled the island of Euboea and had a harbour in Aulis. The tablets contain a number of important terms previously unattested in Linear B, such as \"ra-ke-da-mi-ni-jo /Lakedaimnijos/\" \"a man from Lacedaemonia (Sparta)\", or \"ma-ka /Mā Gā/\" \"Mother Gaia\" (a goddess still revered in Thebes in the 5th century BC, as reported, for example, in Aeschylus' \"Seven Against Thebes\"). Also \"ku-na-ki-si /gunaiksi/\" \"for women\", exhibits the peculiar oblique stem of Greek \"woman\".\n\nGodart and Sacconi read the tablets to indicate cult activity dedicated to Demeter, Zeus protector of crops, and to Kore, and they speculate that the roots of the Eleusinian Mysteries can be traced back to Mycenaean Thebes. Palaima, however, has criticized their suggestions as \"subject to very dubious interpretations\" and \"highly suspect on linguistic and exegetical grounds\". Other arguments against the identification of cult activity in the texts have been advanced by Sarah James and Yves Duhoux.\n\nPalaima attaches importance to one tablet (Uo 121) as evidence of linking sacrificial animals with foodstuffs at the end of LHIIIB. The same phenomenon, part of ritual Mycenaean feasting, occurs in the contemporary Pylos tablets.\n\nThe results of a specialist symposium held in Vienna December 5–6, 2002 have been published. The papers further dismantle the \"house of cards\" constructed by the editors of the tablets on the religious references in the Thebes tablets.\n\nGünter Neumann (pp. 125–138) states that the animals in the Thebes tablets are not in any way sacred or \"divine\" but animals that would naturally be part of everyday life for both Mycenaean and later Greeks. He gathers explicit historical evidence, including references to the animals being fed grains.\n\nMichael Meier-Brügger (pp. 111–118) clearly demonstrates that \"de-qo-no\" as \"master of banqueting\" is linguistically impossible. It must be \"deipnon\" \"main dinner\", as in Homer; that \"di-wi-ja-me-ro\" cannot equal \"the part for the goddess Diwia\" but has to be \"two-day period\" (as also argued earlier by Melena and in this volume by Killen). Also, \"si-to\" is not an otherwise unattested god Sito (Grain) but plain \"siton\" \"grain\".\n\nJosé Luis Garcia Ramón (pp. 37–69) demonstrates that linguistically, \"a-ko-ro-da-mo\" cannot be \"agorodamos\" \"mystic assembler of the people\". He proposes simply the Greek male name Akrodamos. He also considers that \"o-po-re-i\" is a personal name, parallel to another in the Thebes tablets \"me-to-re-i\". They mean respectively \"on the mountain\" and \"beyond the mountain\" so \"o-po-re-i\" does not mean \"Zeus of the Fall Harvest\", which is impossible according to Mycenaean usage for god's names and epithets.\n\nJohn T. Killen (pp. 79–110) specifically concludes (p. 103) that \"the fact that ma-ka, o-po-re-i, and ko-wa never all occur together, and that it requires a special hypothesis to explain this fact, combined with what I believe are the continuing difficulties with explaining o-po-re-i as a theonym /Opo:rehi/, make me reluctant for the present to accept the ma-ka = Ma:i Ga:i [i.e., Mother Earth] equation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4767168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4767168", "title": "Thracology", "text": "Thracology\n\nThracology is the scientific study of Ancient Thrace and Thracian antiquities and is a regional and thematic branch of the larger disciplines of ancient history and archaeology. A practitioner of the discipline is a Thracologist. Thracology investigates the range of ancient Thracian culture (language, literature, history, religion, art, economics and ethics) from 1000 BC up to the end of Roman rule in the 4th–7th centuries AD. Modern Thracology (as opposed to an antiquarian interest in the land of Thrace) started with the work of Wilhelm Tomaschek in the late 19th century.\n\nIn the second part of the 20th century, Bulgarian historian Alexander Fol founded the Institute of Thracology in the Bulgarian Academy of Science. With subsequently ever-increasing Thracian tombs unearthing, the study of the Ancient Thracian civilization was able to proceed with greater academic rigor.\n\nSince Dacians are considered a branch of the Thracians by most mainstream research and historical sources, Romanian historians and archaeologists have also been heavily involved in Thracology since at least the 19th century. The related term Thraco-Dacology also exists, alluding to Thraco-Dacian, and one of the first uses is from around 1980, in the Romanian government archive.\n\nBut since other theories sustain that Daco-Thracian relation is not as strong as originally thought, Dacology may evolve as an independent discipline from Thracology.\nUnfortunately, the terms \"Dacology/Dacologist\" have been negatively affected by the association with Protochronism and risk to be severely compromised, prompting some reputable Romanian researchers to call themselves Thracologists instead of Dacologists, even in the context of their research being focused more on Dacians than on Thracians, and even without necessarily promoting a strong connection between the two peoples.\n\nThe \"Romanian Thracology Institute I.G Bibicescu\", part of Romanian Academy and based in Bucharest, was founded in 1976, after the 2nd \"International Congress of Thracology\" held in September of same year in Bucharest. One of his first directors was the thracologist Dumitru Berciu (1907–1998).\n\nResearchers who have been noted in the field of Thracology include:\n\nThe \"International Congress of Thracology\" was organised by the Institute of Thracology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It has been held regularly since 1972 when it was founded by Alexander Fol. Fol himself became the chairman of the congress, and emphasized an international approach to the study of Thracology.\n\nOn September 21–26, 1984, the Fourth International Congress of Thracology was held in the Museum Boymans-van Beuningen in Rotterdam, Netherlands. The Congress was organized by the Henri Frankfort Foundation, which is a private institution whose main purpose is to augment the study of Mediterranean pre-history and proto-history. The opening of the symposium began on September 24 and was addressed by the Minister of Education and Science Dr. W. J. Deetman. \"Thracians and Mycenaeans\" was the theme name for the symposium, which held discussions pertaining to the potential ethnic, cultural, religious, and linguistic interrelations between proto-Thracians and proto-Greeks (i.e. Myceneans). It was believed that such interrelations had to exist since both groups have lived in the same geographic area in the past. According to Alexander Fol, the concept of \"Mycenean Thrace\" was first developed in 1973 in order to explain the relative cultural unity between the Thracians and the Myceneans.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104108", "title": "Time Enough at Last", "text": "Time Enough at Last\n\n\"Time Enough at Last\" is the eighth episode of the American television anthology series \"The Twilight Zone\". The episode was adapted from a short story written by Lynn Venable (pen name of Marilyn Venable). The short story appeared in the January 1953 edition of the science fiction magazine \"If: Worlds of Science Fiction\" about seven years before the television episode first aired. \"Time Enough at Last\" became one of the most famous episodes of the original \"Twilight Zone\" and has been frequently parodied since. It is \"the story of a man who seeks salvation in the rubble of a ruined world\" and tells of Henry Bemis , played by Burgess Meredith, who loves books, yet is surrounded by those who would prevent him from reading them. The episode follows Bemis through the post-apocalyptic world, touching on such social issues as anti-intellectualism, the dangers of reliance upon technology, and the difference between aloneness (solitude) and loneliness.\n\nHenpecked, far sighted bank teller and avid bookworm Henry Bemis (Meredith) works at his window in a bank, while reading \"David Copperfield\", which causes him to shortchange an annoyed customer. Bemis's angry boss (Taylor), and later his nagging wife (deWit), both complain to him that he wastes far too much time reading \"doggerel.\" As a cruel joke, his wife asks him to read poetry from one of his books to her; he eagerly obliges, only to find that she has inked over the text on every page, obscuring the words. Seconds later, she destroys the book by ripping the pages from it, much to Henry's dismay.\n\nThe next day, as usual, Henry takes his lunch break in the bank's vault, where his reading will not be disturbed. Moments after he sees a newspaper headline, which reads \"H-Bomb Capable of Total Destruction,\" an enormous explosion outside the bank violently shakes the vault, knocking Bemis unconscious. After regaining consciousness and recovering the thick glasses required for him to see, Bemis emerges from the vault to find the bank demolished and everyone in it dead. Leaving the bank, he sees that the entire city has been destroyed, and realizes that a nuclear war has devastated Earth, but that his being in the vault has saved him.\n\nFinding himself totally alone in a shattered world with food to last him a lifetime (but no one to share it with) and no means of leaving to look for other survivors, Bemis succumbs to despair. As he prepares to commit suicide using a revolver he has found, Bemis sees the ruins of the public library in the distance. Investigating, he finds that the books are still intact and readable; all the books he could ever hope for are his for the reading, and (as he gazes upon a huge fallen face of a clock) realizes that he has all the time in the world to read them without interruption.\n\nHis despair gone, Bemis contentedly sorts the books he looks forward to reading for years to come, with no obligations to get in the way. Just as he bends down to pick up the first book, he stumbles, and his glasses fall off and shatter. In shock, he picks up the broken remains of the glasses he is virtually blind without, and says, \"That's not fair. That's not fair at all. There was time now. There was—was all the time I needed…! It's not fair! It's not fair!\" and bursts into tears, surrounded by books he now can never read.\n\nThe closing narration was a sort of nod to Burgess Meredith's acting credits, as he was the lead in the 1939 movie \"Of Mice and Men\".\n\n\"Time Enough at Last\" was one of the first episodes written for \"The Twilight Zone\". It introduced Burgess Meredith to the series; he went on to star in three more episodes, being introduced as \"no stranger to \"The Twilight Zone\"\" in promotional spots for season two's \"The Obsolete Man\". He also narrated for the 1983 film \"\", which made reference to \"Time Enough at Last\" during its opening sequence, with the characters discussing the episode in detail.\n\nFootage of the exterior steps of the library was filmed several months after production had been completed. These steps can also be seen on the exterior of an Eloi public building in MGM's 1960 version of \"The Time Machine\". John Brahm was nominated for a Directors Guild award for his work on the episode. The book that Bemis was reading in the vault and that flips open when the bomb explodes is \"A History of the Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus\" by Washington Irving.\n\nAlthough the overriding message may seem to \"be careful what you wish for, you just might get it\", there are other themes throughout the episode as well. Paramount among these is the question of solitude versus loneliness, as embodied by Bemis' moment of near-suicide. Additionally, the portrayal of societal attitudes towards books speaks to the contemporary decline of traditional literature and how, given enough time, reading may become a relic of the past. At the same time, the ending \"punishes Bemis for his antisocial behavior, and his greatest desire is thwarted\".\n\nRod Serling's concluding statement in the episode alludes to Robert Burns' Scots language poem \"To a Mouse.\" The poem concludes: \"The best-laid schemes o' mice an men / \"Gang aft agley\"\" (translation: \"Often go awry\").\n\nAlthough \"Time Enough at Last\" implies that nuclear warfare has destroyed humanity, film critic Andrew Sarris notes that the episode's necessarily unrealistic format may have been what allowed its production to commence:\n\nIn the era of the Internet and eBooks, the irony depicted in \"Time Enough at Last\" has an information age counterpart, according to Weston Ochse of \"Storytellers Unplugged\". As Ochse points out, when Bemis becomes the last person on Earth, he finally has time to read, with all his books at his fingertips and the only impediment is technology when his medium for accessing them—his glasses—breaks. In a hypothetical world where all books are published electronically, Ochse observes, readers would be \"only a lightning strike, a faulty switch, a sleepy workman or a natural disaster away from becoming Henry Bemis at the end of the world\"—that is, a power outage has the potential to give them time to read, yet like Bemis, they too would lose their medium for accessing their books—namely the computer.\n\n\"The Twilight Zone\" often explored similar themes throughout its run. \"Time Enough at Last\" has strong thematic ties to a number of other episodes in the series, starting with that of isolation, first explored in the series pilot, \"Where Is Everybody?\". It is also a prominent theme in the previous episode \"The Lonely\". Additionally, in a plot very similar to that of \"Time Enough at Last\", \"The Mind and the Matter\" tells of a man who uses his mind to erase humanity, only to find that existence without other people is unbearable. The notion of being an outsider, lost in a sea of conformity, was one of the most common themes of the series.\n\nOther thematic elements in this episode can be found throughout the series, as well. \"The Obsolete Man\" takes the episode's literary subtext—the notion that reading may eventually be considered \"obsolete\"—to an extreme: The state has declared books obsolete and a librarian (also played by Meredith) finds himself on trial for his own obsolescence. This notion, akin to Ray Bradbury's short story \"The Pedestrian\" (1951), is also alluded to in the episode \"Number 12 Looks Just Like You\", in which a perfect and equal world contradictorily considers works like those of Shakespeare \"smut\".\n\n\"Time Enough at Last\" was a ratings success in its initial airing and \"became an instant classic\". It \"remains one of the best-remembered and best-loved episodes of \"The Twilight Zone\"\" according to Marc Zicree, author of \"The Twilight Zone Companion\". When a poll asked readers of \"Twilight Zone Magazine\" which episode of the series they remembered the most, \"Time Enough at Last\" was the most frequent response, with \"To Serve Man\" coming in a distant second. In TV Land's presentation of \"TV Guide\"'s \"100 Most Memorable Moments in Television\", \"Time Enough at Last\" was ranked at #25. \nIn an interview, Serling cited \"Time Enough at Last\" as one of his two favorites from the entire series. (The other episode was \"The Invaders\", with Agnes Moorehead.)\n\n\nThe comic book version of \"The Simpsons\", \"Simpsons Comics\", published a story called \"The Last Fat Man\", based partially on \"Time Enough at Last\", and includes a short scene where Homer Simpson shoos a bespectacled man who is reading a book out of a nuclear bunker so he can eat in it, unintentionally taking shelter in it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Time Enough at Last\" has been released in numerous formats over the years. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32732287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32732287", "title": "Unbundled legal services", "text": "Unbundled legal services\n\nUnbundled legal services, also known as limited scope representation and discrete task representation, is a method of legal representation in the United States in which an attorney and client agree to limit the scope of the attorney’s involvement in a lawsuit or other legal action, leaving responsibility for those other aspects of the case to the client in order to save the client money.\n\nUnbundled legal services are employed as an attempt to lower costs for the client by reducing the amount of time an attorney spends – and therefore the amount the attorney bills – on a legal matter. An American Bar Association study estimates that \"fewer than three in ten of the legal problems of low-income households are brought to the justice system and only four in ten for moderate income households.\" According to the New York State Bar Association, \"[u]nbundling is seen as a way to increase legal access for middle income consumers...\" \"Clients find unbundling attractive because it saves money and gives them more control over the process and strategy decisions.\"\n\nUnbundled attorneys are more likely to offer flat fee pricing to complete tasks, as opposed to the more common practice of hourly billing by full-service attorneys. Depending on the jurisdiction, they may provide legal ghostwriting services, that is, drafting legal documents on behalf of the client without formally appearing before the court.\nThey may offer legal coaching to clients who plan to represent themselves \"pro se\" in the courtroom. Or they might do the opposite, agreeing that clients handle their lawsuits up until the trial phase, at which point the attorney takes over.\n\nThe phrase “unbundled legal services” has been attributed to UCLA law professor Forrest S. Mosten. In 2000, “Woody” Mosten wrote “Unbundling Legal Services: A Guide to Delivering Legal Services a la Carte,” which was published by the American Bar Association. Mosten, a California attorney, specializes in family law and divorce mediation. Throughout his career he has emphasized the importance of access to justice, which likely contributed to his involvement in promoting unbundled legal services. Mosten has received the Lifetime Achievement Award for Innovations in Legal Access from the ABA Section of Delivery of Legal Services, and the Lawyer as Problem Solver Award from the ABA Section on Dispute Resolution. \n\nIn 2017, Mosten's \"Unbundled Legal Services: A Family Lawyer's Guide\" (co-written with Elizabeth Potter Scully), reflecting years of changes and development in the unbundling field, was also published by the American Bar Association. He was also recently a guest on the Unbundled Attorney Mastermind Podcast discussing the history and future of unbundled legal services. \n\nDivorce is an area of law that can lend itself to unbundling particularly well, and the development of unbundled legal services has grown largely out of the family law field. Another California family law attorney, M. Sue Talia, helped popularize unbundled legal services. Building upon Mosten’s work, Talia wrote several publications designed to help clients get the most out of unbundling.\n\nLargely because of the advocacy by Mosten and Talia, among others, for the adoption of unbundled legal services by mainstream lawyers, which also emphasized new ethical guidelines for unbundling while maintaining the established rules, the California State Bar formally recognized unbundled legal services as a legitimate and important practice.\n\nOther states soon followed California’s lead in officially permitting unbundled legal services. With its growing acceptance in the legal profession, unbundled legal services began to evolve into other areas of law. Unbundled attorneys also began combining this new representation technique with emerging technologies such as teleconferencing and cloud computing. One of the early adopters of e-lawyering has been North Carolina lawyer Stephanie Kimbro, who implemented a “virtual law office” in 2006 when she focused her practice on estate planning and business law. Kimbro has since expanded her practice but continues to deliver her services solely by virtual office. She received an ABA Award for Excellence in eLawyering in 2009.\n\nOne of the last areas of unbundled legal services to be embraced by state bar associations has been legal ghostwriting. Legal ghostwriting usually entails an attorney drafting a legal document – such as a summons and complaint, an answer or an appellate brief – on behalf of a client. The client maintains responsibility for the other aspects of the lawsuit, such as filing, corresponding with the court and opposing counsel and generally prosecuting their case. Under this agreement, the attorney ghostwriter is not the attorney of record. Instead, the client appears in the action \"pro se\", meaning they represent themselves. The unbundled attorney might in this case inform the court of their assistance drafting the document.\n\nIn 2007 the ABA relaxed its professional ethical rules to expressly permit unbundled legal services and legal ghostwriting in Rule 1.2(c). In April 2010, the New York County Law Association echoed the ABA opinion by formally giving its blessing to the practice of legal ghostwriting as consistent with the state bar’s ethical rules. The NYCLA Ethics Committee on Professional Ethics in its Opinion 742 stated that “…it is now ethically permissible for an attorney, with the informed consent of his or her client, to play a limited role and prepare pleadings and other submissions for a \"pro se\" litigant without disclosing the lawyer’s participation to the tribunal and adverse counsel. Disclosure of the fact that a pleading or submission was prepared by counsel need only be made ‘where necessary.”\n\nCertain jurisdictions have called for the implementation of clinics in law schools to teach unbundling legal services to students in a practical setting, and to encourage future lawyers to use the practice.\n\nOpponents of unbundled legal services often cite ethical concerns about the professional responsibility of a lawyer for his or her client. For one, an attorney owes the court a \"duty of candor\" in his or her dealings with the court. By working on a lawsuit on behalf of a client but failing to appear, some courts have held this duty is violated.\n\nMoreover, full-service attorneys handle all aspects of a case and can be liable for legal malpractice should they be negligent in their representation of clients. Critics claim that, should an attorney limit the scope of his or her representation of a client, they might escape a malpractice claim despite having committed malpractice. Some fear that a lack of communication between lawyer and client can lead to confusion about who is responsible for what, and that important issues of a client's case can fall through the cracks.\n\nState bar associations and courts have split on the ethics of unbundling when it comes to legal ghostwriting. Some jurisdictions have ruled that ghostwriting by attorneys is prohibited, claiming that failing to disclose their assistance to a self-represented client would be misleading to the court and their adversary in the lawsuits. Others oppose legal ghostwriting because they believe it would allow an attorney to evade responsibility for a frivolous lawsuit filed by their client.\n\nCertain critics have argued that legal ghostwriting actually gives the self-represented litigant an unfair advantage over his or her adversary, even when that adversary has an attorney. The reason for this is that judges have had a history of giving pro se litigants more leeway in the courtroom to make up for their lack of experience. For example, a person appearing pro se might be allowed to fix a procedural error but had a lawyer had made the same mistake, their error would have led to some adverse consequence. When a self-represented litigant uses an attorney as a ghostwriter, critics argue he or she should not be entitled to any special treatment. However, proponents of legal ghostwriting point out that while judges might grant certain flexibility to \"pro se\" clients on procedural matters, no judge would rule in favor of a party simply because they lacked an attorney.\nTo avoid the potential for this unfair advantage, some jurisdictions, like New York, require an attorney to disclose in papers submitted to the court that they were prepared by an attorney, but attorneys are not required to disclose their name or firm.\n\nMany jurisdictions look at the intent of the attorney for his legal ghostwriting. Where an attorney used the ghostwriting technique to avoid disclosing that he was not admitted in the state where the case was filed, it may be ruled unethical. However the American Bar Association Model Rules of Professional Conduct have been amended to allow for legal ghostwriting where the attorney merely intends to offer unbundled legal services to a client.\n\nAnother ethical concern concerning unbundled legal services is that it leads to the commoditization of law. Rather than treating the law as a profession, critics believe unbundling might lead to a factory-like approach, where cases are treated with a \"one-size-fits-all\" approach.\n\nHowever, Richard Susskind in his 2008 book \"The End of Lawyers: Rethinking the Nature of Legal Services,\" argues that, as technology progresses, lawyers might have no choice but to move toward commoditization. With the emergence of do-it-yourself companies that sell blank legal documents like LegalZoom, lawyers must compete with new low-cost options. Further driving down attorney fees has been outsourcing, where attorneys educated in American law but not necessarily licensed in any state provide services to law firms at reduced rates.\n\n"}
{"id": "32055443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32055443", "title": "Virtual Reference Station", "text": "Virtual Reference Station\n\nVirtual Reference Station (VRS) networks use real-time kinematic (RTK) solutions to provide high-accuracy, RTK Global Navigation Satellite Systems.\n\nTo reach centimeter-level — or even better — accuracy of positioning typically requires use of precise dual-frequency carrier phase observations. Furthermore, these observations are usually processed using a differential GNSS (DGNSS) algorithm, such as real time kinematic (RTK) or post-processing (PP). Regardless of the specific differential algorithm, however, implicit in the process is an assumption that the quality of the reference station data is consistent with the desired level of positioning accuracy.\n\nThe virtual reference station (VRS) concept can help to satisfy this requirement using a network of reference stations. As a quick review, a typical DGNSS setup consists of a single reference station from which the raw data (or corrections) are sent to the rover receiver (i.e., the user). The user then forms the carrier phase differences (or corrects their raw data) and performs the data processing using the differential corrections.\n\nIn contrast, GNSS network architectures often make use of multiple reference stations. This approach allows a more precise modeling of distance-dependent systematic errors principally caused by ionospheric and tropospheric refractions, and satellite orbit errors. More specifically, a GNSS network decreases the dependence of the error budget on the distance of nearest antenna.\n"}
{"id": "598329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598329", "title": "Voice (phonetics)", "text": "Voice (phonetics)\n\nVoice is a term used in phonetics and phonology to characterize speech sounds (usually consonants). It is also called \"voicing\". Speech sounds can be described as either voiceless (also called unvoiced) or voiced.\n\nThe term, however, is used to refer to two separate concepts:\n\nAt the articulatory level, a voiced sound is one in which the vocal folds vibrate, and a voiceless sound is one in which they do not.\n\nFor example, voicing accounts for the difference between the pair of sounds associated with the English letters \"s\" and \"z\". The two sounds are transcribed as and to distinguish them from the English letters, which have several possible pronunciations, depending on the context. If one places the fingers on the voice box (i.e. the location of the Adam's apple in the upper throat), one can feel a vibration while \"zzzz\" is pronounced but not with \"ssss\". (For a more detailed, technical explanation, see modal voice and phonation.) In most European languages, with a notable exception being Icelandic, vowels and other sonorants (consonants such as \"m, n, l,\" and \"r)\" are modally voiced.\n\nWhen used to classify speech sounds, voiced and unvoiced are merely labels used to group phones and phonemes together for the purposes of classification.\n\nThe International Phonetic Alphabet has distinct letters for many voiceless and voiced pairs of consonants (the obstruents), such as . In addition, there is a diacritic for voicedness: ⟨⟩. Diacritics are typically used with letters for prototypically voiceless sounds.\n\nIn Unicode, the symbols are encoded and .\n\nThe extensions to the International Phonetic Alphabet have a notation for partial voicing and devoicing as well as for prevoicing:\n\nPartial voicing can mean light but continuous voicing, discontinuous voicing, or discontinuities in the degree of voicing. For the example, could be an [s] with (some) voicing in the middle and could be [z] with (some) devoicing in the middle.\n\nPartial voicing can also be indicated in the normal IPA with transcriptions like and .\n\nThe distinction between the articulatory use of voice and the phonological use rests on the distinction between phone (represented between square brackets) and phoneme (represented between slashes). The difference is best illustrated by a rough example.\n\nThe English word \"nods\" is made up of a sequence of phonemes, represented symbolically as , or the sequence of , , , and . Each symbol is an abstract representation of a phoneme. That awareness is an inherent part of speakers' mental grammar that allows them to recognise words.\n\nHowever, phonemes are not sounds in themselves. Rather, phonemes are, in a sense, converted to phones before being spoken. The phoneme, for instance, can actually be pronounced as either the phone or the phone since is frequently devoiced, even in fluent speech, especially at the end of an utterance. The sequence of phones for \"nods\" might be transcribed as or , depending on the presence or strength of this devoicing. While the phone has articulatory voicing, the phone does not have it.\n\nWhat complicates the matter is that for English, consonant phonemes are classified as either voiced or voiceless even though it is not the primary distinctive feature between them. Still, the classification is used as a stand-in for phonological processes, such as vowel lengthening that occurs before voiced consonants but not before unvoiced consonants or vowel quality changes (the sound of the vowel) in some dialects of English that occur before unvoiced but not voiced consonants. Such processes allow English speakers to continue to perceive difference between voiced and voiceless consonants when the devoicing of the former would otherwise make them sound identical to the latter.\n\nEnglish has four pairs of fricative phonemes that can be divided into a table by place of articulation and voicing. The voiced fricatives can readily be felt to have voicing throughout the duration of the phone especially when they occur between vowels.\n\nHowever, in the class of consonants called stops, such as , the contrast is more complicated for English. The \"voiced\" sounds do not typically feature articulatory voicing throughout the sound. The difference between the unvoiced stop phonemes and the voiced stop phonemes is not just a matter of whether articulatory voicing is present or not. Rather, it includes when voicing starts (if at all), the presence of aspiration (airflow burst following the release of the closure) and the duration of the closure and aspiration.\n\nEnglish voiceless stops are generally aspirated at the beginning of a stressed syllable, and in the same context, their voiced counterparts are voiced only partway through. In more narrow phonetic transcription, the voiced symbols are maybe used only to represent the presence of articulatory voicing, and aspiration is represented with a superscript \"h\".\n\nWhen the consonants come at the end of a syllable, however, what distinguishes them is quite different. Voiceless phonemes are typically unaspirated, glottalized and the closure itself may not even be released, making it sometimes difficult to hear the difference between, for example, \"light\" and \"like\". However, auditory cues remain to distinguish between voiced and voiceless sounds, such as what has been described above, like the length of the preceding vowel.\n\nOther English sounds, the vowels and sonorants, are normally fully voiced. However, they may be devoiced in certain positions, especially after aspirated consonants, as in \"coffee\", \"tree\", and \"play\" in which the voicing is delayed to the extent of missing the sonorant or vowel altogether.\n\nThere are two variables to degrees of voicing: intensity (discussed under phonation), and duration (discussed under voice onset time). When a sound is described as \"half voiced\" or \"partially voiced\", it is not always clear whether that means that the voicing is weak (low intensity) or if the voicing occurs during only part of the sound (short duration). In the case of English, it is the latter.\n\nJuǀʼhoansi and some of the neighboring languages are typologically unusual in having contrastive partially voiced consonants. They have aspirate and ejective consonants, which are normally incompatible with voicing, in voiceless and voiced pairs. The consonants start out voiced but become voiceless partway through, allow normal aspiration or ejection. They are and and a similar series of clicks.\n\nThere are languages with two sets of contrasting obstruents that are labelled vs. even though there is no involvement of voice (or voice onset time) in that contrast. That happens, for instance, in several Alemannic German dialects. Because voice is not involved, this is explained as a contrast in tenseness, called a fortis and lenis contrast.\n\nThere is a hypothesis that the contrast between fortis and lenis consonants is related to the contrast between voiceless and voiced consonants. That relation is based on sound perception as well as on sound production, where consonant voice, tenseness and length are only different manifestations of a common sound feature.\n\n"}
{"id": "6966876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6966876", "title": "Wilfred Cantwell Smith", "text": "Wilfred Cantwell Smith\n\nWilfred Cantwell Smith (July 21, 1916 – February 7, 2000) was a Canadian professor of comparative religion who from 1964–1973 was director of Harvard University's Center for the Study of World Religions. The \"Harvard Gazette\" said he was one of the field's most influential figures of the past century. In his 1962 work \"The Meaning and End of Religion\" he notably and controversially questioned the validity of the concept of religion.\n\nSmith was born in Toronto to parents Victor Arnold Smith and Sarah Cory Cantwell. He was the younger brother of Arnold Smith and the father of Brian Cantwell Smith.\n\nHe received a B.A. with honours in oriental languages in 1938 from the University of Toronto. After his thesis was rejected by Cambridge University, supposedly for its Marxist critique of the British Raj, he and his wife Muriel Mackenzie Struthers spent seven years in Pre-Independence India (1940–1946), during which he taught Indian and Islamic history at Forman Christian College in Lahore.\n\nIn 1948 he obtained a Ph.D in oriental languages at Princeton University, after which he taught at McGill, founding in 1952 the university's Institute of Islamic Studies. From 1964 to 1973 Smith taught at Harvard Divinity School. He left Harvard for Dalhousie University in Halifax, NS, where he founded the Department of Religion. He was also among the original Editorial Advisors of the scholarly journal \"Dionysius\". In 1978 he returned to Harvard. In 1979 he received an honorary doctorate from Concordia University. After his retirement from teaching, he was appointed a senior research associate in the Faculty of Divinity at Trinity College, University of Toronto, in 1985. He died on February 7, 2000.\n\nIn his best known and most controversial work, Smith contends that the concept of religion, rather than being a universally valid category as is generally supposed, is a peculiarly European construct of recent origin. Religion, he argues, is a static concept that does not adequately address the complexity and flux of religious lives. Instead of the concept of religion, Smith proffers a new conceptual apparatus: the dynamic dialectic between \"cumulative tradition\" (all historically observable rituals, art, music, theologies, etc.) and \"personal faith\". (p. 194)\n\nSmith sets out chapter by chapter to demonstrate that none of the founders or followers of the world's major religions had any understanding that they were engaging in a defined system called religion. The major exception to this rule, Cantwell Smith points out, is Islam which he describes as the most \"entity like\"' (p. 85). In a chapter titled \"The special case of Islam\", Smith points out that the term Islam appears in the Qur'an, making it the only religion not named in opposition to or by another tradition. (p. 80). Other than the prophet Mani, only the prophet Muhammad was conscious of the establishment of a religion. (p. 106). Smith points out that the Arabic language does not have a word for religion, strictly speaking: he details how the word \"din\", customarily translated as such, differs in significant important respects from the European concept.\n\nThe terms for major world religions today, including Hinduism, Buddhism, and Shintoism, did not exist until the 19th century. Smith suggests that practitioners of any given faith do not historically come to regard what they do as \"religion\" until they have developed a degree of cultural self-regard, causing them to see their collective spiritual practices and beliefs as in some way significantly \"different\" from the \"other\". Religion in the contemporary sense of the word is for Smith the product of both identity politics and apologetics:\n\n\"One's own 'religion' may be piety and faith, obedience, worship, and a vision of God. An alien 'religion' is a system of beliefs or rituals, an abstract and impersonal pattern of observables. A dialectic ensues, however. If one's own 'religion' is attacked, by unbelievers who necessarily conceptualize it schematically, or all religion is, by the indifferent, one tends to leap to the defence of what is attacked, so that presently participants of a faith - especially those most involved in argument - are using the term in the same externalist and theoretical sense as their opponents. Religion as a systematic entity, as it emerged in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, is a concept of polemics and apologetics\" (p. 43).\n\nBy way of an etymological study of \"religion\" (\"religio\", in Latin), Smith further contends that the term, which at first and for most of the centuries denoted an attitude towards a relationship between God and \"man\" (p. 26), has through conceptual slippage come to mean a \"system of observances or beliefs\" (p. 29), a historical tradition which has been institutionalized through a process of reification. Whereas \"religio\" denoted personal piety, \"religion\" came to refer to an abstract entity (or transcendental signifier) which, Smith says, does not exist.\n\nHe argues that the term as found in Lucretius and Cicero was internalized by the Catholic Church through Lactantius and Augustine. During the Middle Ages it was superseded by the term \"faith\", which Smith favors by contrast. In the Renaissance, via the Christian Platonist Marsilio Ficino, \"religio\" becomes popular again, retaining its original emphasis on personal practice, even in John Calvin's \"Christianae Religionis Institutio\" (1536). During 17th Century debates between Catholics and Protestants, religion begins to refer to an abstract system of beliefs, especially when describing an oppositional structure. Through the Enlightenment this concept is further reified, so that by the nineteenth century Hegel defines religion as \"Begriff\", \"a self-subsisting transcendent idea that unfolds itself in dynamic expression in the course of ever-changing history ... something real in itself, a great entity with which man has to reckon, a something that precedes all its historical manifestation\" (p. 47).\n\nSmith concludes (p. 48-9) by arguing that the term religion has now acquired four distinct senses: \n\n\"The Meaning and End of Religion\" remains Smith's most influential work.\nThe anthropologist and writer on religion and post-colonial studies Talal Asad has said \"The Meaning and End of Religion\" is a modern classic and a masterpiece.\n\n\n\n\n"}
