{"id": "44728678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44728678", "title": "1976 Summer Olympics national flag bearers", "text": "1976 Summer Olympics national flag bearers\n\nDuring the Parade of Nations section of the 1976 Summer Olympics opening ceremony, athletes from the participating countries marched into the arena. Each delegation was led by a flag bearer and a sign with the name of the country on it. The Parade of Nations was organized in French, the main language of Quebec province of Canada. As tradition dictates, Greece led the parade and Canada was the last to march to the stadium as the host nation. Because of 1976 Summer Olympics boycott, some African countries which marched at the parade later withdrew from the Games. Egypt was the only exception because they had decided not to march at the opening ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "28546984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28546984", "title": "Adolphe Bartels", "text": "Adolphe Bartels\n\nAdolphe Bartels (1802–1862) was a Belgian liberal, journalist and writer, notable for supporting the Belgian Revolution of 1830. He wrote two historical accounts of the Revolution, in 1834 and 1836 respectively. He also edited \"Radical\", the liberal movement's official journal from 1837 to 1838.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38502870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38502870", "title": "Alexander Parvus", "text": "Alexander Parvus\n\nAlexander Lvovich Parvus, born Israel Lazarevich Gelfand (1867 – 1924), was a Marxist theoretician, revolutionary, and a controversial activist in the Social Democratic Party of Germany.\n\nIsrael Lazarevich Gelfand was born to an ethnic Jewish family on September 8, 1867 in the shtetl of Berazino, Russian Empire, now part of Belarus. Although little is known of Israel's early childhood, the Gelfand family was of the lower middle class with his father working as an artisan of some sort — perhaps as a locksmith or a blacksmith. When Israel was a small boy the family's home in Berazino was destroyed by a fire, prompting a move to the city of Odessa, Russian Empire, now part of Ukraine, the hometown of Israel's paternal grandfather.\n\nGelfand attended gymnasium in Odessa and received private tutoring in the humanities. He also read widely on his own, including material by the iconic Ukrainian poet Taras Shevchenko, the journalist Nikolai Mikhailovsky, and political satirist Mikhail Saltykov-Shchedrin which led the young Gelfand to begin to question the legitimacy of the tsarist regime.\n\nIn 1886 the 19-year-old Gelfand first traveled from Russia to Basel, Switzerland. It was there that Gelfand was first exposed to the writings of Alexander Herzen as well as the revolutionary literature of the day. He returned to Russia briefly the following year but he became the subject of official scrutiny by the tsarist secret police and was forced to leave the country again for his safety. He would remain abroad for more than a decade.\n\nReturning to Switzerland, in the fall of 1888 Gelfand enrolled at the University of Basel, where he studied political economy. Gelfand would remain at the university for the next three years, graduating with a doctorate degree in July 1891. Gelfand's professors were largely hostile to his Marxist approach to economics, however, and difficulty in his oral examination resulted in a rider being attached to the degree which rendered it the equivalent of a third class degree.\n\nGelfand chose not to pursue an academic career but rather sought to begin a political career which would both provide him financial support and serve the cause of socialism. Alienated from the backwardness of agrarian Russia and the limited political horizons there, Gelfand moved to Germany, joined the Social Democratic Party and befriended German revolutionary Rosa Luxemburg.\n\nIn 1900, he met Vladimir Lenin for the first time, in Munich, each admiring the other's theoretical works. Parvus encouraged Lenin to begin publishing his revolutionary paper \"Iskra\".\n\nParvus' attempts to become a German citizen proved fruitless. He once commented in a letter to his German friend Wilhelm Liebknecht that \"I am seeking a government where one can inexpensively acquire a fatherland.\"\n\nHowever, German counter-intelligence had penetrated part of the socialist revolutionary network and upon reading his writing in the socialist press during the Russo-Japanese War, found Parvus had predicted that Russia would lose the war, resulting in unrest and revolution. When this proved to be the case, Parvus' prestige among his socialist and other German comrades increased. Thus, German intelligence soon estimated he would be useful in efforts against the Russian Empire.\n\nDuring this time he developed the concept of using a foreign war to provoke an internal revolt within a country. It was at this time that Parvus revived, from Karl Marx, the concept-strategy of \"permanent revolution\". He communicated this philosophy to Trotsky who then further expanded and developed it. There were broad discussions on the questions of \"permanent revolution\" within the social democratic movement in the period leading up to 1917. The method was eventually adopted by Vladimir Lenin and the Bolsheviks in Lenin's April Theses in 1917.\n\nIn 1905, Parvus arrived in St. Petersburg with false Austro-Hungarian papers. Parvus was regarded among European Marxists of the day as an authority on political and financial questions; consequently when he authored a provocative article In December entitled \"The Financial Manifesto,\" which described the Russian economy as being on the verge of collapse it received broad play in the press.\n\nIn combination with this propaganda, Parvus coordinated an agitation of locals to feign a run on the banks. As the news of the article and the subsequent \"rush\" was spread, the consequent hysteria managed to upset the economy and enrage prime minister Sergei Witte, but did not cause a financial collapse.\n\nIn connection with this provocation and Parvus' involvement in the organization of anti-government actions during the 1905 revolution, Parvus (together with other revolutionaries such as Leon Trotsky) was arrested by the Russian police. While in prison he became close with other revolutionaries, and was visited by Rosa Luxemburg.\n\nSentenced to three years exile in Siberia, Parvus escaped and emigrated to Germany, where he published a book about his experiences called \"In the Russian Bastille during the Revolution\".\n\nWhile in Germany, Parvus struck a deal with Russian author Maxim Gorky to produce his play \"The Lower Depths\". According to the agreement, the majority of the play's proceeds were to go to the Russian Social Democratic Party (and approximately 25% to Gorky himself). Parvus' failure to pay (despite the fact that the play had over 500 showings) caused him to be accused of stealing 130,000 German gold marks. Gorky threatened to sue, but Rosa Luxemburg convinced Gorky to keep the quarrel inside the party's own court. Eventually, Parvus paid back Gorky, but his reputation in party circles was damaged.\n\nSoon afterwards Parvus moved to Istanbul in Turkey, where he lived for five years. There he set up an arms trading company which profited handsomely during the Balkan War. He became the financial and political advisor of the Young Turks. In 1912 he was made editor of \"Turk Yurdu\", their daily newspaper. He worked closely with the triumvirs known as the Three Pashas - Enver, Talat and Cemal - and Finance Minister Djavid Bey. His firm dealt with the deliveries of foodstuffs for the Turkish army and he was a business partner of the Krupp concern, of Vickers Limited, and of the famous arms dealer Basil Zaharov. Arms dealings with Vickers Limited at war time gave basis to the theory that Alexander Parvus was also a British intelligence asset.\n\nWhile in Turkey, Parvus became close with German ambassador Hans Freiherr von Wangenheim who was known to be partial to establishing revolutionary fifth columns among the allies. Consequently, Parvus offered his plan via Baron von Wangenheim to the German General Staff: the paralyzing of Russia via general strike, financed by the German government (which, at the time, was at war with Russia and its allies). Von Wangenheim sent Parvus to Berlin where the latter arrived on the 6 March 1915 and presented a 20-page plan titled \"A preparation of massive political strikes in Russia\" to the German government.\n\nParvus' detailed plan recommended the division of Russia by sponsoring the Bolshevik faction of the Russian Social Democratic Labor Party, encouraging ethnic separatists in various Russian regions, and supporting various writers whose criticism of Tsarism continued during wartime. Basing himself on his 1905 experiences, Parvus theorised that the division of Russia and its loss in the First World War was the best way to bring about a socialist revolution.\n\nSome accuse Parvus of having funded Lenin while in Switzerland. Historians, however, are skeptical. A biography of Parvus by the authors Scharlau and Zeman have concluded that there was no cooperation between the two. It declared that \"Lenin refused the German offer of aid.\" Parvus's bank account shows that he only paid out a total of 25,600 francs in the period between his arrival in Switzerland in May 1915 and the February Revolution of 1917. Parvus did little in Switzerland, historians conclude. Austrian intelligence through Parvus gave money to Russian emigre newspapers in Paris. But when the sources of this funding became clear in the beginning of 1915 and more widely understood—Lenin and the emigres in Paris rejected such support. Harold Shukman has concluded, \"Funds were plainly not flowing into Lenin's hands\" \n\nParvus placed his bets on Lenin, as the latter was not only a radical but willing to accept the sponsorship of the Tsar's wartime enemy, Germany. The two met in Bern in May 1915 and agreed to collaboration through their organizations, though Lenin remained very careful never to get associated with Parvus in public. There is no certain proof that they ever met face to face again, although there are indications that such a meeting may well have occurred on April 13, 1917 during Lenin's stop-over in Stockholm.\n\nParvus assiduously worked at keeping Lenin's confidence, however Lenin kept him at arms length to disguise the changing roles of both men, Parvus involvement with German intelligence and his own liaisons with his old ally, who was not respected anymore among the socialists after his years in Turkey and after becoming a millionaire entrepreneur. German intelligence set up Parvus' financial network via offshore operations in Copenhagen, setting up relays for German money to get to Russia via fake financial transactions between front organizations. A large part of the transactions of these companies were genuine, but those served to bury the transfer of money to the Bolsheviks, a strategy made feasible by the weak and overburdened fiscal and customs offices in Scandinavia, which were inadequate for the booming black market in these countries during the war.\n\nIt is still debated to the present day whether the money with which this financial network operated was actually of German origin. The evidence published by Alexander Kerensky's Government in preparation for a trial scheduled for October (November) 1917 was recently reexamined and found to be either inconclusive or outright forgery. (\"See also Sisson Documents\")\n\nHowever, setbacks occurred, as Yakov Ganetsky's suspicious arms smuggling activities drew unwanted attention from the British Secret Intelligence Service who now traced Ganetsky to Parvus and hence to Baron von Wangenheim. The Baron had long been under surveillance for his support of the Young Turks' revolutionary actions against the British. As a result, Ganetsky was forced out of Denmark, while attempts were made by the British and Russians to stamp out the Bolshevik's financial network in Turkey. Additionally, as Lenin became more and more aware of Parvus' relations with German intelligence their relations became increasingly strained. Losing the confidence and/or control of his agents, Parvus began looking for other avenues of operation.\n\nParvus' reputation with the German ministry of foreign affairs came into question when in the winter of 1916 a Parvus planned financial catastrophe in St. Petersburg (akin to Parvus' provocation against the Russian banks in 1905) failed to produce a massive uprising. As a result, financing for Parvus' operations were frozen. Parvus went for support to the German Navy, briefly working as their advisor. He managed to help prevent Russian naval Admiral Aleksandr Kolchak from taking on his offensive against the Turko-German Fleet in the Bosphorus and Dardanelles by planning the sabotage of a major Russian warship. This success gave him more credibility, once again, in the eyes of the Germans.\n\nIn April 1917, in a plan strategized together with Parvus, German intelligence sent Vladimir Lenin and a group of 30 of his revolutionary associates from Switzerland through Germany and Sweden in a train car under supervision of Swiss socialist Fritz Platten.\n\nLeon Trotsky has responded to these allegations in Volume 2 Chapter 4 of his \"History of the Russian Revolution\".\n\nAs the depth of Parvus' arrangements with the Imperial Government became known, the revelations ruined relations with the rest of the revolutionary network including Rosa Luxemburg and other German socialists who were engaging in the subversion of the German Empire. Despite evidence showing that Parvus had never betrayed German socialists to the authorities, his credibility among the revolutionary elite went sour.\n\nAs his political activity waned, the war ground to a halt, and he refused to help the new German authorities smash the Spartacist uprising, retreating to a German island near Berlin. Despite his failure to help the new Weimar Republic regime he was well provided for, living in a well-appointed 32-room mansion in Berlin's Peacock Island. He later published his memoirs from this residence.\n\nParvus died in Berlin on December 12, 1924. His body was cremated and interred in a Berlin cemetery. After his death, Konrad Haenisch wrote in his memoir: \"This man possessed the ablest brains of the Second International\".\n\nDuring his lifetime, Alexander Parvus' reputation among his revolutionary peers suffered as a result of the Maxim Gorky affair (see above) and the fact that he was in effect a German government agent. At the same time both his business skills and revolutionary ideas were appreciated and relied upon by Russian and German revolutionaries and Ottoman's Young Turks. After the October Revolution in Russia for obvious political reasons his role was denied and he himself vilified. This continued during Joseph Stalin's era and sometimes had anti-semitic overtones to it. In Germany however he was considered favorably. His name is often used in modern political debates in Russia.\n\nSurprisingly, Parvus has left no documents after his death and all of his savings disappeared. Both of his surviving sons became Soviet diplomats.\n\n"}
{"id": "15532564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15532564", "title": "Annalee Skarin", "text": "Annalee Skarin\n\nAnnalee Skarin (July 7, 1899 – January 17, 1988), was born Annalee Kohlepp in American Falls, Idaho, the seventh of twelve children. Her parents were Frederick John Kohlepp and Mary Ella Hickman, her grandfather was \"Wild Bill\" Hickman. Annalee's eldest sister, Minerva (Kohlepp) Teichert, was an accomplished artist with paintings on display in many LDS temples.\n\nAnnalee married William Michael \"Mikey\" Gorman on July 15, 1916, the marriage was annulled in 1920. Her second marriage, arranged by her mother, was to Hugo Joseph Avarell August 31, 1922 in Salt Lake City, UT, it ended in divorce after 21 years. Her final marriage was to Reason E. Skarin October 18, 1943 in Buffalo, NY.\n\nHer eldest daughter, Hope (Avarell) Hilton, was actively involved in Annalee's excommunication. Her younger daughter, Linda Lee (Avarell) Moat, was the child described suffering from a severe illness in \"Ye Are Gods\". \"Dear God, this child is Yours first -- and then she is mine. If you want her -- take her -- I love her so! But all that I have is Thine.\"\n\nAfter her excommunication Annalee used the alias Nansela Mathews to prevent Hope Hilton from discovering her whereabouts.\n\nThe underlying theme for all of her writings was a desire to understand the deeper meaning behind scripture. \"There was just that intense feeling that something was required of us and we had to find out what it was.\" Annalee was a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) who was called on a mission to California, and to be Relief Society President. She was excommunicated in 1952 for what she wrote in her book \"Ye Are Gods\". As of 2014 \"Ye Are Gods\" was in its 18th printing. She accepted no royalties.\n\n\n[page 1 opening] \"Dear Hope, It has been most difficult for me to answer your unsigned letter of condemnation. First because you were not seeking to know the truth about me, but desired only to find grounds on which to condemn me. Darling, I haven't time to go through life justifying myself to everyone who condemns me or who desires to think evil of me.\"[page 1, ¶ 3] \"Hope dear, I would not go back to Hugo if he were the only man on earth, or the only man in eternity. And you have no idea of the real reason I left him, and I shall never tell you.\"[page 3, ¶ 4] \"All of the Authorities have received copies of these books. None have condemned it. From many have come beautiful letters - the one from President George Albert Smith was filled with love and kindness. Apostle Spencer W. Kimball has written many times and takes his copy with him to visit the various Stakes and Missions - and has ordered copies for his friends - And from Stake, Mission and Temple Presidents who he has contacted have come orders for these books. He visited President Pierce of the Mexican Mission and the request for books followed - and like a living flood of light these books are spreading out over Mexico. One of the Missionary girls has already started translating it into the Spanish language - as have others in Europe.\"[page 4, ¶ 4] \"All I ask of you, Hope is that you pray about it, in sincerity - then begin to live it - and like hundreds of others over the earth there will be a song of joy rising from your soul such as you have never before experienced.\"[Page 4, closing] \"God bless you my darling, and may His peace and His light and His love be in your heart forever. Lovingly, Annalee Skarin\"\nHope Hilton's response was to escalate her feud with her mother to the highest authorities within the LDS Church.\n\n\nHilton's interpretation of this doctrine takes a large leap when he tries to equate receiving instructions for those in authority, which Annalee does not do, to receiving revelations that could be beneficial to others, which she does do. Mark E. Petersen would begin his move to excommunicate Annalee Skarin after receiving his copy of the Hilton study.\n\n\nAnnalee self-published her first book, \"Ye Are Gods\", in 1948, correspondence indicates that this was soon followed by a second volume in 1949. She published a new edition in 1952 that combined the two volumes. This edition removed explicit references to the LDS Church, however, still widely quoted early LDS leaders and scripture. The content of these books was central to her excommunication in 1952. \nAnnalee's daughter, Hope Hilton and her husband, Lynn M. Hilton, submitted a study they had made of Annalee's book to LDS Apostle and president of the Deseret News, Mark E. Petersen. Elder Petersen gave Annalee the choice of renouncing her writing as the work of Satan, or facing excommunication.\n\n\"\"In the spring of 1952 Annalee was visiting friends, Chris and Sally Franchow, in Salt Lake City who lived on Ninth East [3140 South 900 East], just across from the Hillcrest Ward [3151 South 900 East]. As news of her visit became known, she was besieged with invitations to speak at Church and fireside groups. Then without warning the axe fell. After addressing an enthusiastic congregation, she was ushered into the bishop’s office where she was confronted by Elder Mark E. Petersen, a member of the Council of the Twelve. He denounced Ye Are Gods as inspired by Satan, and demanded that she repent and repudiate the book. 'And then it was that I, who love Christ above all others,' she wrote, 'was acclaimed to be the great anti-Christ.' When she rejected the ultimatum, she was tried by a Church court and excommunicated June 1952.\"\n\n\"\"Annalee called it a 'kangaroo court,' where I was refused counsel. My efforts to bear witness to what I had written, or even to defend myself, were denied and silenced.' When Sally Franchow tried to defend her, 'For her courageous efforts she too was excommunicated.\"'\"\n\n\"The action was taken because of her claims that she has been receiving revelations from the Lord, which are contained in her two books, both of which are entitled \"Ye Are Gods.\"\"\n\nThe definitive reasons for Annalee Skarin's excommunication are contained in the Church Court's transcript which Elder Petersen refused to release.\"\" This essay was written seven months after Annalee's excommunication in response to letters requesting an explanation for his actions.\n\nElder Petersen begins his essay, pages 2–5, by describing the difficulties inherent in establishing a church based on personal revelation. Soon after the establishment of the LDS church several members began to have revelations. That might sound like a good thing, however, the content of those revelations conflicted with Joseph Smith's leadership. The Lord hadn't anticipated this problem but it was resolved when Joseph Smith received a revelation that only his revelations affecting church members were real, all others were of the devil. His status as the solerevelator would pass to his successors and he could appoint substitute revelators as needed.\n\nElder Petersen concludes that since LDS President George Albert Smith didn't appoint Annalee Skarin to be a revelator, her books could only be inspired by the devil.\n\nAnnalee sent copies of her books to all of the Church leaders, including LDS President George Albert Smith. In October 1949 she wrote to Hope, \"From many have come beautiful letters --- the one from President George Albert Smith was filled with love and kindness.\" Annalee was excommunicated by Elder Petersen after President Smith's death.\n\nOn page 6 of his essay, Elder Petersen writes:\n\"The middle of page 270 she says, \"There are only two possible ways for those who read this book to know if it is true, and the first is to pray to God the Eternal Father in the name of Jesus Christ to know if these things are true.  The other way is to live these higher laws of love, forgiveness, worship, devotion and singing glory, as Christ admonished.”\nThis statement is utterly false.  There are not only two possible ways to find out whether her work is true as she sets forth. Actually she overlooks and side-steps the most important way by which we may know it is true.\n\"\nThe best way by which any person in the Church may discover whether or not the teachings of Mrs. Skarin are true is to ask the heads of the Church and they will advise him whether or not that book is true.\n\nThe excerpt quoted from Mrs. Skarin's book appears to be crafted after a corner-stone LDS doctrine based on scripture delivered by Moroni in the Book of Mormon:\n\n\"And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.\" \n\n\"We believe that we have a right to revelations, visions, and dreams from God, our heavenly Father; and light and intelligence, through the gift of the Holy Ghost, in the name of Jesus Christ, on all subjects pertaining to our spiritual welfare; if it so be that we keep his commandments, so as to render ourselves worthy in his sight.\" \"“No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a revelator.”\" \"When you feel pure intelligence flowing into you, it may give you sudden strokes of ideas, so that by noticing it, you may find it fulfilled the same day or soon; those things that were presented unto your minds by the Spirit of God, will come to pass; and thus by learning the Spirit of God and understanding it, you may grow into the principle of revelation, until you become perfect in Christ Jesus.\"\n\n\"All God’s children have the privilege of being enlightened by the Spirit of Christ and receiving personal revelation through the Holy Ghost as they earnestly seek the Lord.\"\"We often hear it said that the living oracles must be in the Church, in order that the Kingdom of God may be established and prosper on the earth. I will give another version of this sentiment. I say that the living oracles of God, or the Spirit of revelation must be in each and every individual, to know the plan of salvation and keep in the path that leads them to the presence of God.\"\n\nT\"he visions of eternity are not reserved for Apostles—they are not reserved for the General Authorities. Revelation is something that should be received by every individual. God is no respecter of persons, and every soul, in the ultimate sense, is just as precious in his sight as the souls of those who are called to positions of leadership. Because he operates on principles of eternal, universal, and never-deviating law, any individual who abides the law that entitles him to get revelation can know exactly and precisely what President Kimball knows, can entertain angels just as well as Joseph Smith entertained them, and can be in tune in full measure with all of the things of the Spirit.\"\n\n\"God cannot be monopolized ... No man, or group can possibly have a monopoly upon God ... He will answer the cry of any man who will ask for help ... And the time has arrived when mankind will no longer accept teachers who teach only with words ... Every man has the right and the power to find God ... thousands and thousands of souls have been sacrificed by those who have professed to have such a sacred monopoly.\"\n\nAnnalee Skarin gained fame by fervently believing in the LDS doctrine of physical translation even though the last person to experience it, according to that doctrine, was John the Apostle aka John the Beloved. Annalee believed she could achieve this state by perfecting the self through the ardent pursuit of Christian principles such as faith, love, and gratitude. She also practiced a meditation technique that she referred to as thought control -- \"\"Be still and know that I am God ..\".\" She provides a discourse on this technique in the chapter titled \"The Atomic Power of the Soul\" in the book \"Ye Are Gods\".\n\"The result of such training in the mind is most amazing. The brain instead of feeling clogged, tired and stupid seems to be alert to almost everything, yet worried about nothing. There is a calmness and control that is majestic, and a joy and glory that is beyond anything that has ever been imagined.\"\n\nOn June 14, 1952, three days after her excommunication, Annalee left a note for her friend Sally Franchow just before disappearing. In that note she says,\"I am called away to fill my greater destiny - to prove His words that all might be left without excuse. I have paid the highest price possible to truth, membership is His Beloved Church...\" She does not mention being translated in this note.\n\nMany believed that Annalee announced after her excommunication that she had been translated, her detractors claim that her death was proof that this was not true. Mark L. McConkie, however, leaves that door open a bit when he states below that translated beings do eventually experience death.\n\n\"Translated beings are faithful servants of the Lord in the flesh who have been translated in order to continue serving in a protected, restful state until they are resurrected. Translated beings never taste of death; they never endure the pains of death; they have undergone a change in their bodies, \"that they might not suffer pain nor sorrow save it were for the sins of the world\" ...\"\n\n\"Now the doctrine of translation is a power which belongs to this Priesthood [men only]. There are many things which belong to the powers of the Priesthood and the Keys thereof, that have been kept hid from before the foundation of the world; they are hid from the wise and prudent, to be revealed in the last times. \"\"Many may have supposed that the doctrine of translation was a doctrine whereby men were taken immediately into the presence of God, and into an eternal fullness, but this is a mistaken idea. Their place of habitation is that of the terrestrial order, and a place prepared for such characters He held in reserve to be ministering angels unto many planets, and who as yet have not entered into so great a fullness as those who are resurrected from the dead. See [Hebrews 11:35] verse,\"Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection.\"\n\n\"Latter-day Saint scriptures speak of a unique class of beings, persons whom the Lord has \"translated\" or changed from a mortal state to one in which they are temporarily not subject to death, and in which they experience neither pain nor sorrow except for the sins of the world. Such beings appear to have much greater power than mortals. All translated beings will eventually experience physical death and resurrection (MD, p. 807–808). Translation is a necessary condition in special instances to further the work of the Lord.\"\n\n\"Perhaps I can explain it a little more thoroughly this way: after one has learned to make his mind a constant prayer of love and devotion; when his heart has become a continual melody of praise and glory and his mind is at last permitted to reach through into the great storehouse of Eternal Truths, at the fourth dimension, then it is only logical that after abiding in that condition for awhile his body gradually being filled with light should be able to follow into it also.\"\n\nThere are many other terms used to describe advanced states: grace, nirvana, sainthood, enlightenment, etc. Even though there are no universally accepted criteria for these states, history has played a large role in making the determination.\n\n\"It is foolish to think that we will enter heaven without entering into ourselves.\"\n\n\"This is the glory of the nature of the Self. Having come back home, the traveler finds peace. The intensity of happiness is beyond the superlative. The bliss of this state eliminates the possibility of any sorrow, great or small.\"\n\nTrial Transcript\": Asked if she knows she is in God's grace, she answered: \"If I am not, may God put me there; and if I am, may God so keep me.\"\"Jeanne D'Arc was tried and convicted by a Catholic court of blasphemy and heresy. She could spare herself from excommunication and execution if she would confess that she had been guided not by God but by Satan. She refused and was burnt at the stake on May 30, 1431. The Catholic Church reviewed the transcript of her trial in 1456 and admitted that they had made a tragic mistake.\n\nMark E. Petersen left us with a written record of his basis for excommunicating Annalee Skarin from the LDS Church.\"\" Annalee's daughter, Hope Hilton, left us with her opinion in the title of her unpublished manuscript \"Descent into Madness, or The Formation of a Religious Cult\". Annalee Skarin, for her part, left us her books.\"The very power of the heart, soul and mind united in this overwhelming love of devotion and joy turns the key and fulfills all the laws, opening wide the doors to all light, all power and perfection.\"\"Stand with me upon the very threshold of light and view its rising splendor — and know that you, yourself are the door into it.\"\n\nMany of the citations in this article refer to original documents preserved by the University of Utah's J. Willard Marriott Library. The correspondence contained in the Hope Hilton Papers paint an intimate picture of how Annalee's writings and excommunication affected the families involved. A touching letter by Linda Moat's husband Don is a highly recommended read, it concludes, \"L\"et us prayerfully, without malice, seek the truth\".\" (Letter from Don Moat to Lynn Hilton, July 5, 1952, Hope Hilton Papers, Box 5 Folder 7)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6124983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6124983", "title": "Ardabur", "text": "Ardabur\n\nArdabur (died 471) was the son of Flavius Ardabur Aspar, Master of Horse and Magister Militum of the Eastern Roman Empire in the fifth century. Ardabur apparently often served under his famous father during his campaigns. In 466 Ardabur was accused of a treasonous plot, probably by his father's political enemies. The accusation accelerated Aspar's fall from power. Both Ardabur and Aspar were killed in a riot in 471.\n"}
{"id": "8873362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8873362", "title": "Biographical novel", "text": "Biographical novel\n\nThe biographical novel is a genre of novel which provides a fictional account of a contemporary or historical person's life. This kind of novel concentrates on the experiences a person had during his lifetime, the people they met and the incidents which occurred. Like other forms of biographical fiction, details are often trimmed or reimagined to meet the artistic needs of the fictional genre, the novel. These reimagined biographies are sometimes called semi-biographical novels, to distinguish the relative historicity of the work from other biographical novels \n\nSome biographical novels bearing only superficial resemblance to the historical novels or introducing elements of other genres that supersede the retelling of the historical narrative, for example \"Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter\" follows the plot devices of a vampire fiction closely. Biographical fiction often also falls within the genres of historical fiction or alternative history.\n\nSome novels that are known best for their fictional prowess, but include extensive biographical information that is less obvious to readers. A very good example of this kind is Goldsmith's \"The Vicar of Wakefield\" and is believed to be the biography of a person the author had known and observed very closely. \n\nBiographical novels are frequently the foundation for film adaptations into the filmographic genre of biographical film.\n\nFor more reflection on the different types of biographical information used in literature, see Biography in literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2142820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2142820", "title": "Charles and Lee-Lee Chan", "text": "Charles and Lee-Lee Chan\n\nTheir story was made into a 2013 feature film \"A Tale of Three Cities\" directed by Mabel Cheung.\n\nCharles Chan (Cantonese: \"Chan Chi-Peng\", Pinyin: \"Chén Zhìpíng\") was born in 1914 in Anhui, China as Fong Dao-Long (or Fong Dou-Loong). Charles moved to Anhui province when he was nine, then later moved to Wuhu and then Nanjing (then Nanking), China. He lived in Nanjing until he was 15. His father, Fang Zhengwen (Mandarin Pinyin), taught him martial arts at a very young age.\n\nWhen he was 16, Charles learned the Xiahong boxing style from Master Zhang in Shanghai finishing when he was 19. Master Zhang's wife was primarily responsible for training Charles in this style of martial arts and according to Charles, she was exceptionally agile and could kick very high even though her feet were bound.\n\nAccording to the film documentary, the reason he was sent to Shanghai was because Charles did not finish primary school. His father claimed he was too unruly in class and that he should learn a trade through an apprenticeship. He was sent to his father's friend in Shanghai and became an apprentice at a drapery factory and finished his apprenticeship at the age of 20.\n\nAccording to Charles' father, he still needed discipline when Charles returned to Nanjing at the age of 20. His grandfather was a good friend of Chinese National Revolutionary Army General Ku Chu-tung (Gu Zhutong, Chinese: 顧祝同) and after displaying his martial arts skills, Charles became General Gu's orderly which was similar to being a personal guard according to Charles. General Gu later became Chief of Staff to General Chiang Kai-shek.\n\nGeneral Gu had many armed guards and Charles was also given a rifle of his own. He lost his job as an orderly when he accidentally pulled the trigger of his automatic rifle which startled him causing him to drop it. The rifle continued to fire rounds as it spun on the ground.\n\nCharles returned home and eventually found employment on a Mitsubishi cargo ship in Wuhan.\n\nOf the seven general maintenance workers in his group, he became the leader. This group of seven also openly traded merchandise without official permits. Linen was especially very expensive in Nanjing, so they bought the linen in Wuhu and shipped it to Nanjing. Once the linen was in Nanjing, it was traded for salt. According to Charles, when Japanese workers arrived in Nanjing to seek employment, they felt they were not given any benefits and accused Charles and his group of smuggling and they were arrested by Japanese authorities. Upon the fourth day of their imprisonment, he and his group had their hands tied behind their backs and were taken to witness an execution. What they saw caused them to literally faint, lose their appetites and experience restless sleep. One week later, they were taken again to witness another execution. Charles, while recalling this horrific experience in the film documentary, \"Traces of a Dragon: Jackie Chan and his Lost Family\", said that he and the other six workers in his group, upon witnessing another execution, became like zombies.\n\nThe Second Sino-Japanese War broke out in July 1937. Soon, under the pretext of creating a \"Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere\", the Japanese Imperial Army launched an all-out invasion of South-East Asia, but their primary target was always China .\n\nThrough political connections, a relative of Charles pleaded with the Japanese authorities to release him from prison. Of the seven workers, only five came out alive, among them was Charles. Deciding to quit his job on the cargo ship, Charles returned to General Gu, who was Dai Li's boss, to ask for help. This time, General Gu got Charles a job in the Intelligence Bureau of the Administration Office as a Secret Agent of the First War Zone. According to Charles, the Nationalist Government was corrupt and currency became less and less usable as even the price of a stick of fried bread skyrocketed into extremely unreasonable prices.\n\nCharles then led his entire unit of 38 men to the headquarters in Shanghai where they all intended to formally hand in their resignations. However, being the leader of this unit made him the target of two assassination attempts, one of which occurred on the way to the headquarters in Shanghai. While descending down some stairs, someone shouted that he had too much power and shot him. The bullet went through the upper calf of his leg. Later, someone shot Charles from behind and this time the bullet took off a piece of his scalp near the crown of his head. Charles expressed that he believes it was Communists who tried to kill him as he was a Nationalist.\n\nIn the meantime, the Japanese Army were taking the coastal cities of China with overwhelming force causing the Chinese population to continually move further and further inland. Charles fled to Anhui, but it was too devastated from the Japanese air raids for him to stay. Both of his parents and his sister were killed in these air raids. He then fled to Chongqing (Chungking), but returned three or four months later. Living alone among the ruins in Anhui, he met his first wife and they had two sons, Fang Shide (房仕德) and Fang Shisheng (房仕勝). Eventually, they moved to Wuhu.\n\nWhen the older son, Shide, was seven, and the younger son, Shisheng, was two, Charles' wife was diagnosed with cervical cancer and was bed-ridden for three years while in constant pain. Opium, when it could be smuggled undetected by authorities, was often used as a pain-killer, but Charles did not know how to prepare it and hired someone for this task. This caused him to eventually go bankrupt. His first wife died of her illness in 1947.\n\nAs the Communists and Nationalists clashed, the Chinese Civil War broke out and the Communists eventually won. In the meantime, due to Charles having been a former Secret Agent for the Nationalists, his life was in danger and he felt he had no other choice but to leave his two young sons behind and flee Wuhu. Charles left without telling them good-bye or where he was going. After dodging Communists, he ended up in Shanghai at the age of 29. According to his two sons, when they woke up the next morning, their father was simply gone. Without parents, a policeman found them and the two sons were taken care of secretly by Charles' friends. These friends feared that if they were discovered to be helping the sons of a former Nationalist Secret Agent, they could be arrested by the Communists. Charles expressed that from that day until the day he met them again in 1985, he worried about his sons and wondered if they were still alive.\n\nCharles Chan died at the age of 93 on 26 February 2008 in Hong Kong. Family members, including his grandson Jaycee Chan were at his bedside. His son Jackie was unable to be there due to filming commitments, but he was with his father during the Chinese New Year period and said on his website that he knew that might be the last time he saw his father. \n\nCharles Chan was interred next to his wife in the Gungahlin Cemetery in Canberra on 8 March 2008. Jackie Chan, the US ambassador Robert McCallum and former ACT chief ministers Kate Carnell and Gary Humphries were in attendance. \n\nLee-Lee Chan (陳莉莉), born as 陳月榮 (Chén Yuèróng), also known as Lily Chan, was born circa 1916. Lee-Lee's parents owned a grocery store and her first husband worked as a shoe-maker, then later worked at a railroad station. Her first husband was killed from bombs from Japanese air raids in Wuhan and at the age of 28, she was left to single-handedly raise her two daughters, Yulan (who was 12 years old when her father died) and Guilan (four at the time).\n\nWithout her husband's income, Lee-Lee's mother-in-law wanted her to be sold to a store owner to have money for her daughters. Despite her arguments and refusal to be sold, it was already in the process of being arranged, so in desperation, she took her daughters to her mother's house to live. Soon afterwards, Wuhan was invaded by Japanese soldiers who, according to Yulan, would rape any woman they caught.\n\nLee-Lee left Wuhan not only for the fear of being raped, but for lack of money, went to Shanghai at the age of 29 and at the train station, she told her daughters that she would be back. According to Guilan, she told this lie so that they would not feel sad. Yulan, at 12 years old, had to work in a child labour factory to help her grandmother to care for herself and her sister.\n\nWhile in Shanghai, Lee-Lee heard that trafficking opium was lucrative, so she took a risk and bought some opium. That day, the port was under inspection and the officer in charge of inspecting every passenger was Charles who found the opium Lee-Lee was concealing. He confiscated it and was about to arrest her however, he took pity on her when he noticed the blue flower in her hair. According to the autobiography, \"I Am Jackie Chan; My Life in Action\", during the war in China, a white flower in one's hair signified that one had lost their parents, a blue flower meant that they lost their children and/or husband. Charles asked Lee-Lee about her situation and on hearing it, he let her go, returning the opium back to her.\n\nLee-Lee turned to gambling, successfully. She won so many times, that all over Shanghai, she was known as \"Big Sister\" and was treated with utmost respect. However, her luck eventually changed and she resorted to pawning all of her jewelery and clothes. Meanwhile, she and Charles had become great friends, and when he found out about her pawning her belongings, he got them all back for her. He also belonged to a street gang called the \"Shandong Gang\". Lee-Lee never gambled again, but her friendship with Charles grew stronger.\n\nBy studying English, Lee-Lee found employment as a maid in a foreigner's home and worked extremely hard.\n\nLee-Lee Chan died on 28 February 2002, in Canberra, Australia aged around 85 and was buried in the Gungahlin Cemetery.\n\nThe People's Republic of China was founded in 1949 by Mao Zedong. Many Nationalists fled to Taiwan or Hong Kong. Charles, to further hide from the Communists, changed his name from Fang Daolong to Chan Zhiping, the surname Chan was much more common and was also Lee-Lee's surname, and he joined the exodus to Hong Kong. Lee-Lee arrived in Hong Kong a couple of years later in 1951.\n\nA friend of Charles found him employment at the French Consulate in Hong Kong. Charles did not know how to cook at that time, and became an odd job man; doing things from cleaning to gardening. After a while of physical labour with little pay, he asked to be taught how to cook. Charles became a chef at the French Embassy which earned him a higher salary. Charles and Lee Lee had since found each other in Hong Kong and on 7 April 1954, they had a son named, Kong-sang Chan (which means, \"born in Hong Kong\" Chan), better known as Jackie Chan.\nThe family of three lived in the servants quarters of the French Embassy. Lee-Lee had found employment there as a maid. According to countless sources, Jackie was a mischievous child who did not like school. At the age of 7, he was enrolled for the maximum 10 years at the China Drama Academy under the cruel Dickensian head teacher, Master Yu Jim-Yuen where he learned the skills of Chinese Opera such as martial arts, acrobatics, singing and dancing with very little emphasis on academics.\n\nThe 1960s were still financially challenging in Hong Kong and when Charles had the opportunity to leave there with Charles Greene, the Marshall of the French Embassy, to become a chef at the US Embassy in Australia, he did not hesitate to take the new position. After he had earned enough money for an airline ticket for Lee-Lee, he sent for her which meant that after she joined him Australia and also found employment at the US Embassy as a maid, Jackie was left in the care of Master Yu Jim-Yuen.\n\nAfter Jackie graduated from the China Drama Academy, Charles bought him an apartment in Hong Kong. According to Charles, it cost he and Lee-Lee all of their savings plus tips. When Jackie learned of this, his resentment towards his parents for leaving him behind in Hong Kong disappeared as he realised they were working so hard for their son and his future.\n\nIn 1985, through the help of a friend who worked at the Chinese Embassy in Australia, who was also from Shandong, China, Charles found his two sons in China. They were living in Wuhan in Hubei province. Their reunion took place in Guangzhou, China and the sons cried upon seeing their father again and they said that they had suffered a lot. The older son, Shide, is a postman, and the younger son, Shisheng, works on a pig farm.\n\nCharles visited his two sons and their families in Anhui as often as he was able to (at 89 years old in 2005) and he has re-established his position as the patriarch of the Fang family and provided money to renovate the ancestral hall there. He also updated the genealogy by adding Jackie's real name into the records as 房仕龍 (Fáng Shìlóng or Fong Si Lung). The entire Fang clan has been re-connected.\n\nJackie, at the time \"Traces of a Dragon: Jackie Chan and his Lost Family\" was made, had still not met his half brothers, his father's sons, but he has met his half sisters, Lee-Lee's daughters as they would often visit their mother in Australia as did Jackie when his parents used to live there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55315744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55315744", "title": "David Justin Freeman", "text": "David Justin Freeman\n\nDavid Justin Freeman (born December 22, 1984) is a Christian minister, private educator and conservative political activist from the state of Georgia. He is best known for having been controversially arrested in Hall County, Georgia after publicly declaring his religious opposition against the public education system in 2014. His conviction in that matter was ultimately overturned by the Supreme Court of Georgia.\n\nFreeman was born in Gwinnett County Georgia and attended public schools. He entered the University of Georgia as a music education major where he studied from 2005-2009 before becoming disillusioned with the state of public education. For some time thereafter Freeman served as a music minister and in a variety of ministry capacities until his arrest in 2014. He also married and had children, whom he homeschooled. In 2016, Freeman became a founding Elder at eastjordan.church, where he currently serves on a volunteer basis as a web developer.\n\nFreeman first entered the political world as a precinct chairman in the Hall County Republican Party in 2012, and that year served as a delegate for Hall County to the Georgia Republican Party's State Convention, where he was noted for arguing in favor of strict constitutional construction regarding a party resolution on the National Defense Authorization Act. The next year, Freeman was voted in as chairman for the Georgia Ninth District of the Republican Liberty Caucus and was recognized at the 2013 state convention for his arguments that the state party should abide very strictly by its established rules. Freeman also took up a leadership role in the Lanier Tea Party Patriots, where he twice served as a master of ceremonies for their annual tax-day rally.\nIn April 2013, Freeman publicly came into conflict with Hall County Sheriff Gerald Couch concerning the constitutionality of federal laws which Freeman perceived to overstep the bounds of the 2nd Amendment to the US Constitution, and in the following months filed numerous complaints to the Sheriff regarding Sheriff's deputies speeding in patrol cars during non-emergencies, sometimes under particularly dangerous conditions (on icy roads, in school zones, and at very high speeds).\n\nOn August 3, 2014, Freeman attended services with his family at 12Stone Church in Flowery Branch, Georgia, where he served as a volunteer minister to youths. On that day, Jason Berry (then pastor at that campus), displayed video of a Staples commercial which portrayed children as being particularly depressed about returning to school, and offered prayers for local public school teachers. At trial and in his appeals, Freeman contended that he was displeased with the display because of youth in the church who had expressed suicidal thoughts in the lead-up to the new school year. In response, Freeman (who was positioned in the back of the sanctuary about 50 yards away from Berry) raised his middle finger to Berry. At trial, Freeman stated that it was his intention to object without disrupting the service, saying \"I believe that I would have been failing in my duty as a minister to the church and God if I had not confronted Jason for what he said, and I believe that I did so in the most appropriate way possible.\" Thereafter, when the church service had ended, Freeman stood and addressed the crowd saying, \"It is your responsibility to raise your own children, and it is a sin to give them to a godless government.\"\n\nOn the day of the incident, a warrant was issued for Freeman's arrest for \"Disrupting a Public Gathering.\" This warrant was invalid, because Georgia's \"Disrupting a Public Gathering\" law had been declared unconstitutional in 2006. According to testimony by multiple witnesses at Freeman's trial, Freeman was arrested at his home by a SWAT team armed with semiautomatic weapons and accompanied by a K9 unit. At trial, the state denied that a SWAT team had been at Freeman's home, but the arresting officer on record, Mike Lusk, had been identified previously in the Gainesville Times as a member of the Hall County SWAT team. Freeman later claimed in a lawsuit against the Hall County Sheriff Gerald Couch that after his arrest he was held nude in solitary confinement, threatened with death, and denied bedding and basic hygienic items (among other abuses) during a three-day stay at the Hall County Detention Center.\n\nTwo of the officers most closely tied to Freeman's arrest left the Sheriff's office in disgrace shortly thereafter. Jacob Haney, the Sergeant on duty at the time of Freeman's arrest, resigned after he was caught having an on-duty affair with a Flowery Branch policewoman. Mike Lusk, the officer who arrested Freeman, was himself arrested for an unrelated \"Invasion of Privacy\" charge on May 22, 2015 after a GBI investigation and was released on a $10,000 bond.\n\nIn May 2015, charges against Freeman for \"Obstruction\" and \"Disrupting a Public Gathering\" were dismissed by Hall County State Court Judge Larry Baldwin, and the state replaced these with a charge of \"Disorderly Conduct,\" with the state alleging that holding up a middle finger and shouting a political opinion in public represented a credible threat to life, limb, and health. Freeman was tried and convicted by a jury on January 11–12, 2016.\n\nOn January 18, 2017, Freeman's appeal was transferred by the Georgia Court of Appeals to the Georgia Supreme Court on the grounds that his free speech arguments raised a constitutional question over which the Court of Appeals could not have jurisdiction. Oral arguments in the case were held at the Georgia Supreme Court on May 15, 2017, with Freeman representing himself, and Daniel SanMiguel representing Hall County. Arguments before the court focused primarily on whether Georgia's disorderly conduct statute (16-11-39(a)(1)), is unconstitutionally broad, whether or not people have a constitutionally protected right to shout in a public place, and on whether or not Freeman's conduct - standing, giving a middle finger from 50 yards away, and shouting a religious message - could possibly have violated the statute by representing a reasonable threat of harm.\n\nThe statute in question reads: \"A person commits the offense of disorderly conduct when such person commits any of the following: Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb, or health;\" Freeman argued that the words \"tumultuous\" and \"reasonable\" are not clearly defined in the law and leave intelligent people to guess about their meaning. Freeman also argued that the first amendment protects ministers to speak controversial messages in their churches. SanMiguel argued that while none of Freeman's actions constituted obscenity or represented a reasonable threat in themselves, the actions taken as a whole represented disorderly conduct in their totality.\n\nOn October 2, 2017, the Supreme Court of Georgia reversed Freeman's disorderly conduct conviction on the grounds that his conduct could not have possibly violated Georgia's disorderly conduct statute, and that the middle finger is protected speech. At the time that the conviction was overturned, Freeman stated that he was working mowing lawns as a result of his false conviction, despite the fact that he is skilled in computer programming.\n\nIn August 2016, Freeman filed a suit in the Georgia Northern District court against Hall County Sheriff Gerald Couch and other employees of the Sheriff's Office, alleging that he had been subjected to abuses during his arrest and stay at the Hall County jail. Federal Judge Richard W. Story ultimately dismissed the suit without a hearing, stating that \"neither a State nor its officials acting in their official capacities are 'persons'... On the contrary, states and their officials, acting in official capacities, are immune from suit.\"\n\nSince the Supreme Court's decision, Freeman has been blogging about the experience. In his blog, Freeman has claimed that he was sexually abused and tortured for his faith while he was held at the Hall County Detention Center, and has also claimed (providing an audio recording from a possible witness) that the police attempted to assassinate him while he was awaiting trial, forcing his family to flee from the state and live in hiding for several years. Freeman has also relayed additional stories of interactions with police and the courts since his arrest, which he claims represent a pattern of intentional abuse against him, ostensibly for his conservative Christian views and advocacy against abuses of power by police.\n"}
{"id": "47665177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47665177", "title": "Diana Kobzanová", "text": "Diana Kobzanová\n\nDiana Kobzanová (born 24 March 1982 in Neuburg, Germany) is a beauty queen who won Miss Czech Republic as a 19-year-old and represented her country in Miss Universe 2002 in Puerto Rico.\n\nNowadays is Kobzanová more Czech television and radio presenter than a model. She has hosted Czech version of reality show Való Világ on TV Prima, her own show \"Drzá Diana\" and talk show \"In-box\" on TV Óčko. She also hosted reality show about home decor \"Vrabci v hrsti\" and show \"Horký prachy\". At radio Frekvence 1 she presented programmes \"Na titulní straně\", \"Styl\" and \"Sportbar\". She was on air for more than 8 years.\n\nKobzanová was four years in a relationship with footballer Martin Jiránek. Then with businessman Tomáš Petera and rally driver Štěpán Vojtěch for more than three years. Nowadays Kobzanová is in a relationship with ice hockey player Michael Frolík.\n\nIn December 2014 she gave birth to a daughter Ella.\n\nFew months after her victory she posed for Czech pornographic magazine LEO for 5 million Czech crowns, the equivalent of around 207,320 US dollars. As a result, she lost her title and faced a lawsuit by chairman Miloslav Zapletal who claimed she had damaged the competition's good name. After 4 years of lawsuit, she won and didn't need to apologize publicly or pay a penalty.\n"}
{"id": "48691684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48691684", "title": "Dieter Kalka", "text": "Dieter Kalka\n\nDieter Kalka (born 25 June 1957, Altenburg) is a German writer, songwriter, poet, dramatist, musician, editor, translator and speech therapist.\n\nDieter Kalka started to study electrical engineering and mathematics at the Technische Universität Ilmenau in 1978. In 1980 he had to quit his studies because of the distribution and possession of illegal publications. He was a member of the folk band founded in 1978, \"\", in 1984 he founded the band (The happy Future of Dieter) with Folksongs and own texts together with Uwe Schimmel (Waldhorn), Uta Mannweiler (Viola) and himself Bandoneon. With this group she organized the illegal artists' meeting \"\" in Wurzen where there was no censorship. The unauthorized promotional material for this and other actions he copied at the photo lab of Petra Lux.\nDieter Kalka was \"the fiercest among the \". Since the mid-1980s he has worked as a freelance singer and was repeatedly participant of the Chanson days Kloster Michaelstein (GDR-open Chanson days in Monastery Michaelstein). He made samizdat productions in privat studio at Hubertus Schmidt 1987 and Peter Gläser 1988 and official at Studio Kölling (Leipzig 1989).\nAfter collaboration with Werner Bernreuther mentoring in 1987 he received a professional certificate as a songwriter, won a prize at the (Chanson days in Frankfurt/Oder) and a Prize of the Leipzig Songwriter Workshop, which he later publicly returned as they wanted to dictate to him what song he should sing at the final concert. He has received several scholarships of Saxony and was for a time a member of the Independent Writers Association \"ASSO\" Dresden, the NGL/New Society for Literature, the Writers Association \"VS\" and the \"Förderkreis Freie Literaturgesellschaft Leipzig\".\nDieter Kalkas first book publication was entitled \"Eine übersensible Regung unterm Schuhabsatz\" (An Over Sensitive Motionless Under the Heel) and released in 1987 as samizdat. In 1990 he prepared a project manager before the first . Within the Association of German writers he organized in 1995 in Leipzig, the German-Polish poets festival \"\". He translated Polish poetry. Sunken GDR reality is the subject of his \"Der ungepflückte Apfelbaum\" published in 1998. Kalkas texts have been published in German, Polish, Austrian, Canadian and Belarusian literary magazines.\nKalka was twice in Belarus for Songwriter's Festival \"Bardentreffen\" and appeared with his Belarusian colleague Victor Shalkevich. At Saxon Literature Spring 2003, he dedicated his \"Freiheitslied Nr. 2\" (Freedom Song No.2) his Belarusian colleague Victor Shalkevich to make him hope for better times.\nHe participated in the German-Polish poets steamer on the border river Oder and the in Breslau, Bad Muskau and Lwówek Śląski.\nAt Poets steamer was the Poets wedding 1998 between Dieter Kalka and Zielona Góra fairy tale author Agnieszka Haupe at the Frankfurt Oderbrücke.\nKalka joined with his bandoneon various programs on own songs, such as 1988 with the theme \"Noch habe ich die Freiheit zu lieben\" (I still have the freedom to love). Sometimes he sang at the songwriter-festival . His songs \"are not without bitter aftertaste. He puts his finger on compromises that each includes almost every day in life, or feel compelled to close. Former ideals are often forgotten. He wrote the lyrics for the folk opera and wrote about\" The revival of the East German singer-songwriter scene \". His concerts have taken him to Poland, Belarus, Czech Republic, Hungary, Switzerland, Austria and Denmark. His songs are on numerous CDs.\nDieter Kalka works as a speech therapist and lives in Leipzig and Meuselwitz.\n\n\n\n\n\nDieter Kalka translated Polish poets: , Jan Strządała, , , Józef Baran, , , Agnieszka Haupe, Jolanta Pytel, , , , Grzegorz Stec, Jakub Malukow Danecki, Bohdan Zadura, Waldemar Michalski, Alekzander Rozenfeld and others. The poetry was published in , , the anthology , , the anthologies \"Es ist Zeit, wechsle die Kleider\", \"Nach den Gewittern\" and at PortalPolen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38045015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38045015", "title": "Ed Asner filmography", "text": "Ed Asner filmography\n\nThe following is the complete filmography of American actor Ed Asner.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50199235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50199235", "title": "Edwin F. Bowers", "text": "Edwin F. Bowers\n\nEdwin Frederick Bowers (born 1871), best known as Edwin F. Bowers was an American alternative medicine proponent. Styling himself as a medical doctor, he is known for pioneering reflexology during the early decades of the twentieth century.\n\nBowers with William H. Fitzgerald had invented \"Zone therapy\", a form of reflexology. In 1917, they collaborated on a book titled \"Zone Therapy\". It has been widely criticized as there is no evidence it is beneficial for any medical condition and has been dismissed as quackery.\n\nBowers' credentials were called into question. In 1929, the American Medical Association stated:\n\nNutritionist Bernarr Macfadden promoted Bowers as a doctor of medicine. However, physician Morris Fishbein wrote that \"Dr. Bowers is not a doctor of medicine, and the only M.D. he has is the one Macfadden gives him.\"\n\nIn Britain and America of the nineteenth century, male facial hair was considered acceptable or even desirable, with luxurious growth being the ideal. However, as the germ theory of disease became more accepted, the public was urged to eschew items such as long, street-sweeping ladies' dresses and other germ-harboring areas, in order to remove germ contamination. By the 1900s, beards and mustaches themselves were deemed dangerous. In 1916, Bowers contributed an article to \"McClure's Magazine\", calling for clean-shaven faces:\n\nBowers was a convinced spiritualist. He had defended the fraudulent medium Frank Decker. In his book \"Spiritualism's Challenge\", Bowers made incorrect statements about a magician and was threatened with a lawsuit from the Society of American Magicians. He later removed the incorrect statements from his book.\n\nBowers held séances at his home in West End Avenue, New York City. At one of these séances, professional photographer William van der Weyde produced an alleged spirit photograph of deceased psychical researcher James H. Hyslop. Bowers and other spiritualists were convinced the photograph was genuine. According to Fulton Oursler the photograph was a fake. Weyde had taken a photograph of Hyslop before his death and had a plate in his possession that had never been developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "86253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86253", "title": "Eric Morecambe", "text": "Eric Morecambe\n\nJohn Eric Bartholomew, (14 May 1926 – 28 May 1984), known by his stage name Eric Morecambe, was an English comedian who together with Ernie Wise formed the award-winning double act Morecambe and Wise. The partnership lasted from 1941 until Morecambe's death in 1984. Morecambe took his stage name from his home town, the seaside resort of Morecambe in Lancashire.\n\nHe was the co-star of the television series \"The Morecambe & Wise Show\", which for one Christmas episode gained UK viewing figures of over 27 million people. One of the most prominent comedians in British popular culture, in 2002 he was named one of the 100 Greatest Britons in a BBC poll.\n\nMorecambe, who had previously suffered heart attacks in November 1968 and March 1979 as well as undergoing bypass surgery, collapsed from a heart attack as he left the stage of the Roses Theatre in Tewkesbury, following a performance; he died in hospital a few hours later.\n\nEric Morecambe was born in Morecambe, Lancashire as John Eric Bartholomew to Sadie (Sarah Elizabeth née Robinson) and George Bartholomew. Sadie took work as a waitress to raise funds for his dancing lessons. During this period, Eric Bartholomew won numerous talent contests, including one in Hoylake in 1940 for which the prize was an audition in Manchester for Jack Hylton. Three months after the audition, Hylton invited Morecambe to join a revue called \"Youth Takes a Bow\" at the Nottingham Empire, where he met the then Ernest Wiseman. The two soon became very close friends, and with Sadie's encouragement started to develop a double act.\n\nWhen the two were eventually allowed to perform their double act on stage (in addition to their solo spots), Hylton was impressed enough to make it a regular feature in the revue. However, the duo were separated when they came of age for their War Service during the final stages of the Second World War. Wise joined the Merchant Navy, while Morecambe was conscripted to become a Bevin Boy and worked as a coal miner in Accrington from May 1944 onwards.\n\nAfter the war, Morecambe and Wise began performing on stage and radio and secured a contract with the BBC to make a television show, where they started the short-lived show \"Running Wild\" in 1954. They returned to the stage to hone their act, and later made appearances on \"Sunday Night at the London Palladium\" and \"Double Six\".\n\nIn 1961, Lew Grade offered the duo a series for the London-based ITV station ATV. Entitled \"Two of a Kind\", it was written by Dick Hills and Sid Green. An Equity strike halted that show, but Morecambe and Wise were members of the Variety Artists' Federation, then a separate trade union unaffiliated with Equity. Green and Hills later appeared in the series as \"Sid\" and \"Dick\".\n\nThe sixth Morecambe and Wise series for ATV was planned from the start to be aired in the United Kingdom as well as exported to the United States and Canada. It was taped in colour and starred international guests, often American. Prior to its British run, it was broadcast in North America by the ABC network as a summer replacement for re-runs of \"The Hollywood Palace\", under the title \"The Piccadilly Palace\", from 20 May to 9 September 1967. All but two episodes of this series are now believed to be lost, with the surviving two episodes existing only as black-and-white copies, bearing the UK titles. \n\nThe duo had appeared in the US on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\". In 1968, Morecambe and Wise left ATV to return to the BBC.\n\nWhile Morecambe was recuperating from a heart attack, Hills and Green, who believed that Morecambe would probably never work again, quit as writers. Morecambe and Wise were in Barbados at the time and learned of their writers' departure only from the steward on the plane. John Ammonds, the show's producer, replaced Hills and Green with Eddie Braben. Theatre critic Kenneth Tynan stated, Braben made Wise's character a comic who was not funny, while Morecambe became a straight man who was funny. Braben made them less hostile to one another.\n\nMorecambe and Wise did annual BBC Christmas shows from 1968 to 1977, with the 1977 show having an estimated audience of 28,385,000. In 1976, they were both appointed OBEs. (Morecambe's wife, Joan, received an OBE in 2015 for her work with children's charities.)\n\nThe pair left the BBC for ITV in January 1978, signing a contract with the London station Thames Television.\n\nMorecambe suffered a second heart attack at his home in Harpenden, Herts on 15 March 1979; this led to a heart bypass operation, performed by Magdi Yacoub on 25 June 1979. At that time, Morecambe was told he only had three months to live.\n\nMorecambe increasingly wanted to move away from the double act, and into writing and playing other roles. In 1980, he played the \"Funny Uncle\" in a dramatisation of the John Betjeman poem \"Indoor Games Near Newbury\", part of an ITV special titled \"Betjeman's Britain\". Produced and directed by Charles Wallace, it spawned the start of a working relationship that led to a follow-up in 1981 for Paramount Pictures titled \"Late Flowering Love\" in which Morecambe played an RAF major. The film was released in the UK with \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\". In 1981, Morecambe published \"Mr Lonely\", a tragicomic novel about a stand-up comedian. He began to focus more on writing.\n\nMorecambe and Wise made a series for showing during the autumns of 1980 to 1983. They also appeared together recalling their music hall days in a one-hour special on ITV on 2 March 1983, called \"Eric & Ernie's Variety Days\". During this time Morecambe published two other novels: \"The Reluctant Vampire\" (1982) and its sequel, \"The Vampire's Revenge\" (1983). Morecambe and Wise's final show together was the 1983 Christmas special for ITV.\n\nMorecambe and Wise worked on a television movie in 1983, \"Night Train to Murder\", which was broadcast on ITV in January 1985. Continuing his collaboration with Wallace, Morecambe also acted in a short comedy film called \"The Passionate Pilgrim\" opposite Tom Baker and Madeline Smith, again directed by Wallace for MGM/UA. It was released in the cinema with the James Bond film \"Octopussy\" and later with \"WarGames\". Wallace and Morecambe were halfway through filming a fourth film when Morecambe died. It was never completed.\n\nEric Morecambe married Joan Bartlett on 11 December 1952. They had three children: Gail (born 14 September 1953); Gary (born 21 April 1956) and Steven (born 1970 and adopted in 1974). \n\nIn his leisure time, Eric was a keen birdwatcher, and the statue of him at Morecambe shows him wearing his binoculars. The RSPB named a hide after him at the nearby Leighton Moss nature reserve in recognition of his support. In 1984 the RSPB bought the 459 ha (1,100 acre) Old Hall Marshes Reserve near Tolleshunt D'Arcy in Essex for £780,000 helped by donations to the \"Eric Morecambe Memorial Appeal\".\n\nMorecambe was the nephew of the rugby league footballer John \"Jack\" Bartholomew.\n\nMorecambe was sympathetic to the Conservative Party and sent a message of support (along with various celebrities) to Margaret Thatcher after she won the 1979 general election, wishing her luck during the 1979 European election campaign. His message ended, \"God bless you, Maggie, and good luck in the European Campaign and it is your round next.\"\n\nIn a diary entry from 17 August 1967, when Morecambe and Wise were appearing in Great Yarmouth as part of a summer season, Morecambe noted, \"I have a slight pain on the left side around my heart. It's most likely wind, but I've had it for about four days. That's a hell of a time to have wind.\"\n\nMorecambe was a hypochondriac, but he rarely wrote about his health concerns until after his first heart attack. At the time, Morecambe was smoking 60 cigarettes a day and drinking heavily. He suffered a near-fatal heart attack on 8 November 1968 at the age of 42, after a show, while driving back to his hotel outside Leeds.\n\nMorecambe had been appearing with Wise during a week of midnight performances at the Variety Club in Batley, Yorkshire. Morecambe and Wise appeared there in December 1967 for a week, making £4,000. After that, they were booked to play a New York City nightclub, the Royal Variety Performance and then eight weeks in pantomime the coming winter.\n\nMorecambe headed back to his hotel, and recounted in an interview with Michael Parkinson in November 1972 that, as the pains spread to his chest, he became unable to drive. He was rescued by a passerby as he stopped the car. The first hospital they found had no Accident and Emergency. At the second one, a heart attack was immediately diagnosed.\n\nAfter leaving hospital, Morecambe gave up his cigarette habit to start smoking a pipe, as he mentioned that he was trying to do in August 1967. He also stopped doing summer and winter seasons and reduced many of his public engagements. Morecambe took six months off, returning for a press call at the BBC Television centre in May 1969. In August of that year, Morecambe and Wise returned to the stage at the Bournemouth Winter Gardens, and received a four-minute standing ovation.\n\nMorecambe suffered a second heart attack in March 1979 and underwent bypass surgery in June.\n\nMorecambe took part in a charity show, hosted by close friend and comedian Stan Stennett, at the Roses Theatre in Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, on Sunday 27 May 1984. His wife Joan, who was in the audience, recalled that Morecambe was \"on top form\".\n\nAfter the show had ended and Morecambe had first left the stage, the musicians returned and picked up their instruments. He rushed back onto the stage to join them and played various instruments making six curtain calls. On leaving the stage for the final time as the house tabs fell, he stepped into the wings and collapsed with his third heart attack in 16 years. He was rushed to Cheltenham General Hospital, where he died just before 3 a.m on Monday 28 May.\n\nHis funeral was held on 4 June at St Nicholas Church, Harpenden with the principal address delivered by Dickie Henderson. There was a private cremation service at Garston. His ashes were later returned to the church for burial in the Garden of Remembrance.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34079374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34079374", "title": "Gadzhimurat Kamalov", "text": "Gadzhimurat Kamalov\n\nGadzhimurat Magomedovich Kamalov, (, also spelled Gadjimurat, Gadzhimurad, Khadzhimurat, or Khadzhimurad Kamalov; 11 February 1965 – 15 December 2011) was a Russian investigative journalist and the owner of Svoboda Slova (translated as \"Freedom of Speech\"), the media company that published the newspaper \"Chernovik\".\n\nKamalov was shot dead in an apparent assassination as his name had been put on a hit list for his reporting on Muslim rebel activity in the Republic of Dagestan, and he had been well known for his reporting on corruption. His death is said to have had a chilling effect on other journalists.\n\nGadzhimurat Kamalov, an ethnic Avar, was born in the village of Sogratl, in the Gunibsky District of Dagestan, Russia. He was married and had one child. His uncle, Ali Kamalov, was the chair of the Union of Journalists in Dagestan at the time his nephew was killed.\n\nHe was educated in engineering at the Dagestan Polytechnic Institute in 1982 and later at the Leningrad Technical University in 1990.\n\nKamalov began his journalism career by working at the New Business (Russian: Новое Дело). After founding a major newspaper in Dagestan, he served as press secretary for President Mukhu Aliyev, whose term lasted from 2006 to 2010. Kamalov was also a member of the president's Council of Economic Advisers under President Magomedsalam Magomedov.\n\nOn 19 August 2003, Kamalov founded the newspaper \"Chernovik\" (, which translates as \"Rough Draft\"), which was well known for investigating government corruption in Dagestan.\n\nThe most controversial article published in \"Chernovik\" was \"Terrorist No. 1\", which included quotes from Rappani Khalilov, in July 2008, and that led to a legal case between the government and \"Chernovik\" that lasted until May 2011. Khalilov was killed on 18 September 2007 before the article was published. He had been sought after as a high-profile terrorist target because of his involvement in the 1999 raid from Chechnya into Dagestan and a 2002 bombing that killed 40 people. The editor of \"Chernovik\" was called to the prosecutor's office and warned before charges were filed.\n\nAccording to Nadira Isayeva, the editor-in-chief of \"Chernovik\" at the time it published the Khalilov article and during its legal struggles, \"Khadzhimurad had many enemies. He wasn't afraid to spell out his motto: 'A newspaper does not need friends.' He was not without an element of the cavalier. He could go off for some meeting with some frostbitten bandits and come back unharmed. He loved investigating corruption. Many of those exposed by his revelations – senior civil servants, police officers and staff at the prosecutor's office – had criminal pasts, and presents. Some were dangerous and not afraid of killing. Often there were confrontations with the heads of Dagestan's municipalities, many of whom are bandits.\"\n\nBiyakai Magomedov, the current editor of \"Chernovik\", said, \"The corrupt structures have been afraid of us. [...] They couldn’t defeat us in courts, because we won practically all the cases.\" The main case against \"Chernovik\" had ended in acquittal on 19 May 2011.\n\nAt one point, when \"Chernovik\" lost its financial backers, Kamalov took out loans using his flat as collateral, despite the fact that his wife and child lived there. He also would sell off office equipment, until he finally found new backers.\n\nAs the owner, Kamalov did not interfere with the editorial content of the newspaper and he encouraged his journalists to report the truth, according to accounts by Mairbek Agayev, a political columnist for \"Chernovik\", and Mahir Pashayev, a business and economics reporter. \"It is the only newspaper without any censorship,\" said Pashayev.\n\nBesides being behind the news, Gadzhimurat Kamalov was often called on to be a source for media outlets who were looking for an expert to analyze the deteriorating situation in Dagestan.\n\nOn 28 June 2008, Kamalov told Ekho Moskvy, Moscow, that the security forces had killed three people who were not militants but one was a university educator whom Kamalov knew. Kamalov said, \"A knock on the door [...] is considered a dangerous thing here. Here everybody is afraid of the police. He once told me that if at any time they would come to his place, he would refuse to open the door. It was precisely because he was afraid of an unauthorized search of his flat that [he] must have refused to open the door to them. Thus, they had a justification to storm the flat.\" The same account was published in print.\n\nOn 26 September 2005, Gadzhimurat Kamalov organized an unprecedented protest in Makhachkala against the action of the Federal Agency for the Press and Mass Communication to stop the printing and distribution of issues of the \"Chernovik\". Fifty journalists and supporters participated in the protest.\n\nOn 25 November 2011, Kamalov led a protest of somewhere between 3,000 and 5,700 participants against the unlawful use of force and the disappearance of civilians allegedly by security forces, an issue on which \"Chernovik\" has focused.\n\nKamalov was shot eight times as he was exiting Chernovik's headquarters on Magomed Hajiyev Street in Makhachkala, Dagestan, a Russian province in the north Caucasus region, around 11:45 p.m., 15 December 2011. The gunman was masked, shot 14 rounds in total, and sped away from the scene of the crime in a black Lada Priora. Kamalov had previously received death threats in September 2009 when he was one of eight journalists included in a hit list distributed anonymously in Makhachkala. The list claimed to be seeking revenge for the deaths of police and civilians during Dagestan's unrest. Kamalov may have been included for his sympathetic portrayals of rebel fighters.\n\nHundreds attended Kamalov's funeral.\n\nTanya Lokshina, deputy director of Human Rights Watch in Moscow, said: \"Kamalov's death is terrible and it will have a monstrous effect on the free press in Dagestan. He had many enemies because of Chernovik's searching reports on corrupt businesses and the transgressions of the local siloviki [law enforcement bodies].\" Lokshina blamed the murder on the Russian authorities' governing of the region: \"Even if there was a personal aspect to his murder then it became possible because of the atmosphere of complete impunity which the Russian authorities have allowed to flourish there.\"\n\nThe New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists said that the \"murder of Gadzhimurat Kamalov [...] is a lethal blow to press freedom\", adding that his murder was \"a massive loss for independent journalism in the North Caucasus, Russia's most dangerous place for reporters\". The CPJ had already awarded its press freedom award in 2010 to \"Chernovik\" former editor Nadira Isayeva, and the newspaper's reputation for modern muckraker journalism was well known outside of the North Caucasus.\n\nThe United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and UNESCO both called for a credible investigation into the Kamalov assassination. Irina Bokova, the director-general of UNESCO, said, \"Fear must not be allowed to muzzle media professionals, deny reporters the basic human right of freedom of expression and bar citizens from accessing information.\"\n\nMagomedsalam Magomedov, president of Dagestan, said: \"He always came out for unity and peace, and carrying out dialogue [...] This is a big loss not just for journalists, but for the whole republic.\" The president's office officially took control over the murder investigation.\n\nSaygidpasha Umakhanov, a prominent mayor in Dagestan, said, \"[Gadzhimurat] was indeed an independent and honest journalist. It's impossible to find another like him... His numerous friends and the healthy forces in society will do everything to find the killer. [But for that] we really need to be united.\"\n\nYulia Latynina, an expert on the Caucasus region, said, \"Just as [Anna] Politkovskaya's death meant the loss of information about Chechnya, Kamalov's death will mean that to a large extent we will stop to understand what's going on in Dagestan. People will simply be scared to write anything.\"\n\nAccording to the BBC, assassination in Dagestan has become routine as the levels of violence in the autonomous Republic of Dagestan have risen. The republic is seated between the Caspian Sea and Chechnya. Whereas in Chechnya, rebels have been advocating independence from Russia, in Dagestan the conflict with the rebels is described as more diffuse. Dagestan is a muli-ethnic country with Avars being the largest among them. The majority of citizens practice Sufi Islam but younger people are attracted to the Salafist brand of Islam. The mafia is active throughout the country and use violence, kidnapping and murder to intimidate victims. The security forces in the country are visible and also use violence to achieve their goals. The problems of Chechnya have spilled over into Dagestan since war broke out there in the early 1990s and the struggle with Dagestan's Muslim rebels has been going on since that time. In the last years, the situation has become more intense. The problems feeding the violence in Dagestan are therefore a diffuse blend of ethnic, religious, generational, criminal, and authoritarian causes.\n\nDagestan's press is described by both BBC News and Reporters Without Borders as \"pluralistic,\" but the availability of many sources has not lowered tensions. Dunja Mijatovic, who is the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe Representative on Freedom of the Media, said, \"Daghestan and the Northern Caucasus are known to be among the most dangerous places in the world for journalists.\" Press freedom organizations, such as the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) and Reporters Without Borders, have called for the immediate investigation of Kamalov's murder. Russia, however, is on the CPJ's list of the top 10 countries with the worst records of impunity in the killing of journalists. From 2000 until the time of Kamalov's death, Russia has accrued 18 unsolved cases of murders of journalists, according to the CPJ. CPJ lists three journalists from Dagestan before Kamalov who have been killed since 2000 in Makhachkala:\n\n\nOther journalists who were killed but were unconfirmed by CPJ:\n\n\nAdditionally, Reporters Without Borders lists:\n\n\nThe newspapers in Dagestan with the highest circulations have all experienced the murder of one of their journalists. The top selling news products in Dagestan, include \"Assalam\", which has the highest circulation and is a moderate Muslim bi-weekly; \"Novoye Delo\" and \"Chernovik\". Unlike the others, \"Chernovik\" is an independent newspaper. The newspaper targets the civically engaged audience demographic between the ages of 28 to 45, which makes up 80% of its readership. The popularity of the media has a negative side. The media are caught in the middle as they are a visible target in which all the forces facing Dagestan can attack to get at their enemies (p. 9).\n\n"}
{"id": "38161880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38161880", "title": "Ganna (prophet)", "text": "Ganna (prophet)\n\nGanna (Greek Γάννα) was a Germanic prophet and priestess (\"Seherin\") of the Semnones tribe. She was the successor of Veleda at the end of the 1st century. She was politically active and acted as a diplomat and representative of her tribe in negotiations with Roman Emperor Domitian (ruled 81–96). \n\nGanna accompanied Masyas to negotiate with Emperor Domitian, either during his temporary stay in Gaul (ca.82), or in Rome. Like her predecessor Veleda, Ganna (both described as virgins) probably also had political influence in addition to her religious functions in divination, prophecy, and magical incantations (Ger:Galster). The name \"Ganna\" is interpreted as connected to the Old Norse \"gandr\" \"magic wand\". As in the case of the seeresses Veleda, Waluburg, and perhaps Albruna the name is related to the \"speaking\" role of a prophet. However, her name may also derive from the Proto-Celtic \"geneta\" (\"girl\").\n\n"}
{"id": "19068774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19068774", "title": "Health of Samuel Johnson", "text": "Health of Samuel Johnson\n\nSamuel Johnson's health has been a focus of the biographical and critical analysis of his life. His medical history was well documented by Johnson and his friends, and those writings have allowed later critics and doctors to infer diagnoses of conditions that were unknown in Johnson's day.\n\nHis health and conditions had \"damaging effects on Johnson's personal and professional lives\" likely causing him to lose opportunities to teach at prominent schools, while leading him \"towards the invisible occupation of authorship\".\n\nUpon birth, Johnson did not cry and, with doubts surrounding the newborn's health, his aunt claimed \"that she would not have picked such a poor creature up in the street\". As it was feared that the baby might die, the vicar of St Mary's was summoned to perform a baptism. Two godfathers were chosen: Samuel Swynfen, a physician and graduate of Pembroke College, and Richard Wakefield, a lawyer, coroner, and Lichfield town clerk.\n\nJohnson's health improved and he was placed in the nursing care of Joan Marklew. During this period he contracted what is believed to have been scrofula, known at that time as the \"King's Evil\". Sir John Floyer, a former physician to Charles II, recommended that the young Johnson should receive the \"royal touch\", which he received from Queen Anne on 30 March 1712 at St James's Palace. Johnson was given a ribbon in memory of the event, which he claimed to have worn for the rest of his life. However, the ritual was ineffective and an operation was performed that left him with permanent scarring across his face and body.\n\nFrom early childhood, Johnson suffered from poor eyesight. Especially his left eye was weak. This interfered with his education, yet his handwriting was quite legible until the end of his life. There were somewhat contradictory reports about his eyesight from his contemporaries; he appeared to have been near-sighted. Yet he did not use eyeglasses, which were available at that time.\n\nHis eyesight became worse with age. Boswell first met him in 1763, when Johnson was 54 years old, and noted that he had inflamed eyes. In letters written in 1773 Johnson wrote,\n\n\"My fever has departed but has left me a very severe inflammation in the seeing [right] eye. . . . My eye is yet so dark that I could not read...\"\n\nIn 1734, Johnson feared that he was suffering from a disease that would lead to him being deemed mad. He wrote, in Latin, a letter asking Samuel Swynfen, his godfather, about his health. Swynfen wrote back \"from the symptoms therein described, he could think nothing better of his disorder, than it had a tendency to insanity; and without great care might possibly terminate in the deprivation of his rational faculties.\" This Swynfen's response only caused Johnson to fear becoming insane even more. However, Swynfen soon after showed Johnson's letter to others because of its \"extraordinary acuteness, research, and eloquence\", and this act was so upsetting to Johnson that he could never forgive Swynfen.\n\nBoswell claimed that Johnson \"felt himself overwhelmed with an horrible melancholia, with perpetual irritation, fretfulness, and impatience; and with a dejection, gloom, and despair, which made existence misery\". However, Boswell blamed the common understanding of what was \"sane\" for Johnson's worries over being insane.\n\nJohnson was constantly afraid of losing his sanity, but he kept that anxiety to himself throughout his life. There were, however, occasional outbursts that worried his friends. In June 1766, Johnson was on his knees before John Delap, a clergyman, \"beseeching God to continue to him the use of his understanding\" in a \"wild\" manner that provoked Johnson's friend, Henry Thrale to \"involuntarily [lift] up one hand to shut his mouth\". The Thrales were afraid for his mental health, and took Johnson into their home in Streatham for a few months, in the hope that might aid his recovery. Thrale's experience is similar to many other accounts; James Anderson reported Adam Smith as telling him:\n\nEarly on, when Johnson was unable to pay off his debts, he began to work with professional writers and identified his own situation with theirs. During this time, Johnson witnessed Christopher Smart's decline into \"penury and the madhouse\", and feared that he might share the same fate. In joking about Christopher Smart's madness, his writing for the \"Universal Visiter\", and his own contributions, Johnson claimed: \"for poor Smart, while he was mad, not then knowing the terms on which he was engaged to write ... I hoped his wits would return to him. Mine returned to me, and I wrote in 'the Universal Visitor' no longer\". The truth was that Johnson wrote for the \"Universal Visiter\" as an \"act of charity\" to the ailing Smart.\n\nHester Thrale Piozzi, in her \"British Synonymy\" Book 2, did not joke about Johnson's possible madness, and claimed, in a discussion on Smart's mental state, that Johnson was her \"friend who feared an apple should intoxicate him\". She made it clear who she was referring to when she wrote in \"Thraliana\" that \"I don't believe the King has ever been much worse than poor Dr Johnson was, when he fancied that eating an Apple would make him drunk.\" To Hester Thrale, what separated Johnson from others who were placed in asylums for madness—like Christopher Smart—was his ability to keep his concerns and emotions to himself. However, Johnson was receiving a treatment of sorts, and it is possible that it involved a set of fetters and padlock. John Wiltshire later determined that these instruments were not symbolic, but actually used in private treatment.\n\nOn 17 June 1783, Johnson had a stroke resulting from poor circulation and he wrote to his neighbour, Edmund Allen, that he had lost the ability to speak. Two doctors were brought in to aid Johnson; he regained his ability to speak two days later. Johnson believed that his stroke actually helped him, as if it had some sort of cancelling effect in relation to his other health issues: \"My disorders are in other respects less than usual, my disease whatever it was seems collected into this one dreadful effect. My Breath is free, the constrictions of the chest are suspended, and my nights pass without oppression\".\n\nJohnson suffered from what he and his doctors labelled as gout starting in 1775 when he was 65, and again in 1776, 1779, 1781, and 1783. He told William Boswell, in 1783, that \"the Gout has treated me with more severity than any former time, it however never climbed higher than my ankles\". Some of Johnson's friends and even his doctor believed that gout would actually help Johnson breathe. However, surgery was performed in hope of relieving Johnson's gout. This did not cure the gout, but Johnson tried another path which was to soak his feet in cold water; this only caused Johnson further health issues, but he claimed that it ended his gout problems.\n\nThe onset of his condition is beyond the probable onset for gout, and the way the gout was limited to Johnson's ankles, along with the confusion between arthritis and gout during Johnson's day, suggests to Pat Rogers that it was really a type of degenerative arthritis.\n\nIn 1782, Johnson was alarmed by a tumour that was diagnosed as a \"sarcocele\" (testicular tumour). This caused him great pain, and he underwent an apparently successful surgical operation, but the condition recurred.\n\nThe various biographies on Johnson have provided evidence for several posthumous diagnoses of Johnson. Before the writings of Lawrence C. McHenry in 1967, many of Johnson's actions and health related aspects were characterised as part of his ongoing depression. It was not until afterwards that the depression became a secondary component of Tourette syndrome, and this diagnosis has become the dominant explanation for many of Johnson's behaviours.\n\nThere are many accounts of Johnson suffering from possible bouts of depression or what he himself thought might be \"madness\". As Walter Jackson Bate puts it, \"one of the ironies of literary history is that its most compelling and authoritative symbol of common sense—of the strong, imaginative grasp of concrete reality—should have begun his adult life, at the age of twenty, in a state of such intense anxiety and bewildered despair that, at least from his own point of view, it seemed the onset of actual insanity\". After leaving Pembroke College, Johnson began to experience \"feelings of intense anxiety\" along with \"feelings of utter hopelessness\" and lassitude.\n\nHe told John Paradise, a friend, that he \"could stare at the town clock without being able to tell the hour\". To overcome these feelings, Johnson tried to constantly involve himself with various activities, but this did not seem to help. Taylor, in reflecting on Johnson's states, said that Johnson \"at one time strongly entertained thoughts of Suicide\".\n\nJohnson displayed signs consistent with several diagnoses described in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\", and it is widely accepted that Johnson had Tourette syndrome (TS), a condition unknown during Johnson's lifetime. Johnson displayed signs of TS as described by the writings of Boswell:\n... while talking or even musing as he sat in his chair, he commonly held his head to one side towards his right shoulder, and shook it in a tremulous manner, moving his body backwards and forwards, and rubbing his left knee in the same direction, with the palm of his hand. In the intervals of articulating he made various sounds with his mouth; sometimes giving a half whistle, sometimes making his tongue play backwards from the roof of his mouth, as if clucking like a hen, and sometimes protruding it against his upper gums in front, as if pronouncing quickly under his breath, 'Too, too, too.' All this accompanied sometimes with a thoughtful look, but more frequently with a smile. Generally when he had concluded a period, in the course of a dispute, by which time he was a good deal exhausted by violence and vociferation, he used to blow out his breath like a whale.\n\nThere are many similar accounts; in particular, Johnson was said to act in such a manner at the thresholds of doors, and Frances Reynolds claims that, \"with poor Mrs Williams, a blind lady who lived with him, he would quit her hand, or else whirl her about on the steps as he whirled and twisted about to perform his gesticulations\". When asked by Christopher Smart's niece, a young child at the time, why he made such noises and acted in that way, Johnson responded: \"From bad habit.\"\nHe had a number of tics and other involuntary movements; the signs described by Boswell and others suggest that Johnson had Tourette syndrome (TS). In 1994, J. M. S. Pearce analysed—in a \"Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine\" report—the details provided by Boswell, Hester Thrale, and others, in an attempt to understand Johnson's physical and mental condition. Based on their anecdotal evidence, Pearce compiled a list of movements and tics which Johnson was said to have demonstrated. From that list, he determined it was possible that Johnson was affected by Tourette syndrome as described by Georges Gilles de la Tourette. Pearce concluded that the \"case of Dr Johnson accords well with current criteria for the Tourette syndrome; he also displayed many of the obsessional-compulsive traits and rituals which are associated with this syndrome\".\n\nPearce was not alone in diagnosing Johnson as having Tourette syndrome; in 1967 Lawrence C. McHenry Jr was the first to diagnose Johnson with the syndrome but in passing. It was not until Arthur K. Shapiro's \"Gilles de la Tourette Syndrome\" that the diagnosis was made clear through a comprehensive study, with Shapiro declaring, \"Samuel Johnson ... is the most notable example of a successful adaptation to life despite the liability of Tourette syndrome\". T. J. Murray had come to the same conclusion in a 1979 \"British Medical Journal\" paper. Murray based his diagnosis on various accounts of Johnson displaying physical tics, \"involuntary vocalisations\" and \"compulsive behaviour\".\n\nIn a 2007 analysis, Thomas Kammer discusses the \"documented evidence\" of Johnson's tics, saying that Johnson was \"known to have suffered from TS\". According to neurologist Oliver Sacks, \"the case for Samuel Johnson having the syndrome, though [...] circumstantial, is extremely strong and, to my mind, entirely convincing\". He continues by generally describing the \"enormous spontaneity, antics, and lightning quick wit\" that featured prominently in Johnson's life. However, Pearce goes further into Johnson's biography and traces particular moments in Johnson's life which reinforced his diagnosis, concluding:\nIt is not without interest that periodic boundless mental energy, imaginative outbursts of inventiveness and creativity, are, characteristic of certain Tourette patients. It may be thought that without this illness Dr Johnson's remarkable literary achievements, the great dictionary, his philosophical deliberations and his conversations may never have happened; and Boswell, the author of the greatest of biographies would have been unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "10587340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10587340", "title": "Heather Anne Campbell", "text": "Heather Anne Campbell\n\nHeather Anne Campbell is an American writer, comedian, and improv comedy performer.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, Campbell began studying improvisational comedy at iO Theater at the age of fifteen, under the tutelage of Del Close. Following a four-year stint of performing in Northwestern University's \"Mee-Ow Show\", she relocated to Amsterdam in 2002 for three years as part of the comedy group Boom Chicago. In 2005, Campbell moved to Los Angeles and found work with multiple comedy clubs such as The Groundlings and the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater.\n\nCampbell currently performs in and writes for \"The Midnight Show\", a monthly sketch showcase at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater, and is a recurring performer on the CW's Whose Line Is It Anyway. Campbell was also a writer on Cartoon Network's \"Incredible Crew\". From 2013, she began writing for Adult Swim's The Eric Andre Show. She also currently writes for FOX's Animation Domination, and is a voice talent behind various short clips on Fox's Animation Domination High-Definition (ADHD) airing on Saturday nights. She has appeared on Comedy Central's @midnight four times.\n\nCampbell appeared on \"MADtv\" and was the featured singer in Improv Everywhere's Food Court Musical.\n\nIn 2009, Campbell played a featured character named \"Pink\" in the web series \"MegaBot\".\n\nIn September 2010, Campbell was hired as a writer for Season 36 of \"Saturday Night Live\". In March 2011, Campbell appeared in \"Drew Carey's Improv-A-Ganza\", a shortform improv show that aired on GSN.\n\nCampbell has also appeared in commercials for Cici's Pizza, Wendy's, Toyota, and was featured in Activision's \"Mapathy\" campaign for the video-game Modern Warfare 2. She has written several viral internet videos for The Midnight Show, including Twilight with Cheeseburgers, Bavatar, and \"Drive Recklessly\", which was nominated for The Comedy Awards on Comedy Central in 2012.\n\nCampbell's photography has been selected by National Geographic as Photo of the Day, and her poster design work was featured as the back cover of Adbusters.\n\nIn addition, Campbell is also a video-games journalist, and was editor of Dave Halverson's \"Play Magazine\" as well as Jeff Bond's \"Geek Monthly\" until their closure in 2010. Formerly, Campbell was also the Executive Editor of Fusion Publishing's \"Rocket Magazine\", in addition to being a freelance contributor for Edge Online, Action Button, and EGM.\n\nCampbell identifies as a Libertarian and has expressed interest in cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin. In October 2018, she came out on Instagram as part of National Coming Out Day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29992052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29992052", "title": "Hendrik Coetzee", "text": "Hendrik Coetzee\n\nHendrik \"Hendri\" Coetzee (c. 1975 – 7 December 2010) was a renowned South African outdoorsman and author. He was killed after being taken by a crocodile in December 2010.\n\nCoetzee gained prominence in 2004 leading a Nile River source-to-sea expedition, following in the path of John Goddard's expedition. The expedition set off from Lake Victoria in Uganda on 17 January, reaching Khartoum on 25 March and the Mediterranean Sea at Rosetta on 21 May. The purpose of the trip was to draw attention to the humanitarian situation in the region in partnership with CARE. Following claims that the expedition had not begun from the true source of the Nile, Coetzee's party undertook a further journey from Kagera to Lake Victoria in April 2005, adding 750 km to the 6700 km they completed in 2004.\n\nCoetzee was leader of an expedition going from the source of the White Nile into the Congo at the time of the attack. The trip was the first-of-its-kind kayaking expedition from the White Nile and Congo rivers into the Congo to explore the Ruzizi and Lualaba Rivers. The two other men on the trip, Americans and also experienced kayakers, were documenting unexplored whitewater and development projects in the region.\n\nA memorial service for Coetzee was held on 28 January 2011.\n\nThe documentary short film \"Kadoma\" about Coetzee was released in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "39452223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39452223", "title": "Hugh I of Oisy", "text": "Hugh I of Oisy\n\nHugh I of Oisy (died \"circa\" 1111) was the castellan of the town of Cambrai and a famous rebel against the authority of the bishops of the city. Hugh's family was of seigneurial rank, originating in Oisy and Inchy, and had provided most of the castellans of Cambrai during the eleventh and twelfth centuries.\n\nBefore 1076, Hugh rebelled against the bishop Lietbert and was excommunicated. The bishop refused to lift the ban \"unless [Hugh] first consents to renounce with his own hands—\"werpire\", to use the common expression—every fief which he holds in the city of Cambrai.\" The ceremony of \"werpitio\" (in French \"déguerpissement\") generally involved handing over a symbol of the fief to the one from whom it had been received.\n\nHugh continued to encroach on the authority of the bishop within the city during the episcopate of Gerard II. Since both the French king, Philip I, and the dowager countess of Hainaut, Richilda, were opposed to increased imperial influence—represented by the bishop of Cambrai—in the county of Flanders, they supported Hugh in his rebellion. With the help of Richilda's rival, Count Robert I of Flanders, the bishop succeeded in exiling Hugh to England between about 1086 and 1090.\n"}
{"id": "6250428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6250428", "title": "Héctor del Curto", "text": "Héctor del Curto\n\nHéctor del Curto is an Argentine tango bandoneon player. Born in Buenos Aires, he began to study tango music at a young age, winning the Best Bandoneon under 25 when only 17 years old. Following that honor, he played with the late tango giants Ástor Piazzolla and Osvaldo Pugliese among many others. During this time, he played at the Kennedy Center and Carnegie Hall.\n\nIn 2018 he won the Grammy Award for Best Latin Jazz Album for the album Jazz Tango as a member of the Pablo Ziegler Trio.\n\nHe currently resides in New York City where he founded the Eternal Tango orchestra and quartet.\n\n"}
{"id": "35298504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35298504", "title": "Jan Salter", "text": "Jan Salter\n\nJan Salter MBE was the founder of the Kathmandu Animal Treatment Centre (KAT Centre), a charity organisation that works to create a healthy, sustainable street dog population and eliminate rabies in Kathmandu, Nepal. She was also an artist who is widely acclaimed for her portraits of people of Nepal.\n\nSalter was born in Southampton, England in 1936. During her younger years, she travelled extensively throughout the world, often finding employment as a hairdresser in the countries she visited. This profession gave her the opportunity to earn income to support her travels.\n\nMs. Salter first visited the Himalayan country of Nepal in 1967 as a tourist. She was hired as a hairdresser in Boris Lisanevich's Royal Hotel, one of the first international hotels in the country. She continued to travel worldwide but no other country interested her like Nepal did. In 1975, she returned to Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal, where she lived until 2016.\n\nAt that time, Salter began to create pencil drawings of Nepali people. Although she had no formal training as an artist, her talent became apparent as she compiled a series of more than 100 drawings, and she later expanded into even more oil paintings as well. Salter trekked extensively throughout Nepal, often with her adopted Nepali son Premlal, to produce portraits of the diverse ethnic groups who inhabit different regions of the country. She has enjoyed a successful career as an artist with many exhibitions of her work, and is still widely respected in Nepal and abroad for her representations of the country's many ethnicities. Over the years she has helped and befriended many people including Jane Wilson-Howarth and features in her travel memoir.\n\nSalter collaborated with the scholar and author Dr. Harka Gurung on a book entitled \"Faces of Nepal.\" The book is a unique ethnographic study of the various ethnic groups of Nepal which combines Gurung's writings about each ethnicity with Salter's drawings and paintings of members of the groups. The book was published in 1996 and received much critical acclaim.\n\nIn 1997 Salter was decorated with the \"Gorkha Dakshin Bahu\" award by the then Nepali king, Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev. She has worked with the organisation Maiti Nepal, which rescues Nepali girls who were trafficked and sold into prostitution. Salter produced a series of paintings entitled \"All Our Daughters\" of girls who had been rescued by Maiti Nepal.\n\nSalter had long been disturbed by the suffering of the tens of thousands of street dogs in Kathmandu. Many are afflicted with malnutrition, injuries from collisions with vehicles, and infectious diseases. The government poisoned more than 10,000 street dogs every year with strychnine to attempt to reduce their population. While travelling in India in 2003, Ms. Salter visited an organisation called \"Help in Suffering\" in Jaipur that used spay/neuter surgeries to reduce the street dog population, an approach that was in its infancy in the developing world. Salter recognised that this can be applied on a large scale in Kathmandu and was immediately inspired to take action. At age 68, she stepped back from her career as an artist to devote her time to animal welfare.\n\nMs. Salter committed her life's financial savings to building and starting the Kathmandu Animal Treatment Centre (KAT Centre), the first organisation in Nepal working to improve the dog population. The KAT Centre was registered with the government of Nepal as a charity organisation in 2003 and opened on 9 May 2004. It continues to be the largest companion animal welfare organisation in Nepal.\n\nThe KAT Centre's goals are to humanely produce a healthy, stable street dog population and to eliminate rabies in Kathmandu. The core program engenders a sustainable reduction in the canine population through spay/neuter surgeries. As KAT's staff collects every female dog they can in an area to sterilise them and vaccinate them for rabies, they also provide all needed veterinary treatment to street animals in the same area.\n\nSalter knew that to effect an enduring impact, she must transform people's attitudes about the dogs in their city. Therefore, the KAT Centre's animal care is complemented by an education program. KAT teaches children and adults about compassion for animals, street dog welfare, responsible pet ownership, and rabies awareness.\n\nSalter's approach has produced a visible transformation in the city of Kathmandu, in the number of stray dogs, their health, and people's attitudes towards them. Ms. Salter continues to lead the Kathmandu Animal Treatment Centre. She was the driving force behind the organisation's long-term planning, guiding it towards its goals of creating a healthy, stable dog population and eliminating rabies in Kathmandu. As the public persona of the KAT Centre, Ms. Salter conducted much of the organisation's fundraising and donor relations.\n\nIn 2010 Salter received the prestigious \"Extraordinary Commitment and Achievement award\" presented by Humane Society International, and in the UK New Years Honours List for 2013 she received an MBE from Queen Elizabeth II for services to animal welfare in Nepal.\nJan passed away in Lyme Regis on April 29th 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "406587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406587", "title": "Jean Jacques Régis de Cambacérès", "text": "Jean Jacques Régis de Cambacérès\n\nJean-Jacques-Régis de Cambacérès, duc de Parme (18 October 17538 March 1824), was a French nobleman, lawyer and statesman during the French Revolution and the First Empire. He is best remembered as one of the authors of the Napoleonic Code, which still forms the basis of French civil law and French-inspired civil law in many countries.\n\nCambacérès was born in Montpellier, into a poor family of the legal nobility. (His brother, Étienne Hubert de Cambacérès, later became a cardinal.) In 1774, he graduated in law from the college d'Aix and succeeded his father (who later became mayor of Montepellier) as Councillor in the court of accounts and finances in Toulouse. He was a supporter of the French Revolution of 1789, and was elected as an extra deputy to represent the nobility of Montpellier (in case the government doubled the nobility's delegation) at the meeting of the Estates-General at Versailles. However, since the delegation was not increased, he never took his seat. In 1792, he represented the department of Hérault at the National Convention which assembled and proclaimed the First French Republic in September 1792.\n\nIn revolutionary terms, Cambacérès was a moderate republican and sat left of center during the National Convention. During the trial of Louis XVI he protested that the Convention did not have the power to sit as a court and demanded that the king should have due facilities for his defence. Nevertheless, when the trial proceeded, Cambacérès voted with the majority that declared Louis to be guilty, but recommended that the penalty should be postponed until it could be ratified by a legislative body. This would later save him from being executed for regicide. During the Convention, many of his decisions (like the latter) were well thought out and calculated. Cambacérès made sure that he never committed himself to a certain faction. His legal expertise made him useful to all parties; he was a friend to all and an enemy to none. However, due to this, his fellow representatives at the convention did criticize him for sometimes fluctuating on some positions.\n\nCambacérès was a member of the Committee of General Defence from 1793 until the end of 1794, and later became a member of its infamous successor, the Committee of Public Safety after the fall of Robespierre. In the meantime he worked on much of the legislation of the revolutionary period. During 1795, he was employed as a diplomat and negotiated peace with Spain, the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, the Kingdom of Prussia and the Batavian Republic. His remarkable debating skills gave him a spot as a councilor of the Five Hundred from 1795-1799.\n\nCambacérès was considered too conservative to be one of the five Directors who took power in the coup of 1795 and, finding himself in opposition to the Executive Directory, he retired from politics. In 1799, however, as the Revolution entered a more moderate phase, he became Minister of Justice. He supported the coup of 18 Brumaire (in November 1799) that brought Napoleon Bonaparte to power as First Consul, a new regime designed to establish a stable constitutional republic.\n\nIn December 1799, Cambacérès was appointed Second Consul under Bonaparte. He owed this appointment to his vast legal knowledge and his reputation as a moderate republican. His most important work during this period, and arguably during his entire political career, was the drawing up of a new Civil Law Code (later called the Napoleonic Code; France's first modern legal code). The Code was promulgated by Bonaparte (as Emperor Napoleon) in 1804. In the end, the Napoleonic Code was the work of Cambacérès and a commission of four lawyers.\n\nThe Code was a revised form of Roman law, with some modifications drawn from the laws of the Franks still current in northern France (\"Coutume de Paris\"). The Code was later extended by Napoleon's conquests to Poland, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, western Germany and Spain, and indirectly to the Spanish colonies in Latin America. Cambacérès' work has thus been enormously influential in European and American legal history. Versions of the Code are still in force in Quebec and Louisiana.\n\nThe Napoleonic Code dealt with Civil Law; other codes ensued for Penal Law, criminal procedure, and civil procedure.\n\nCambacérès disapproved of Bonaparte's accumulation of power into his own hands (culminating in the proclamation of the First French Empire on 18 May 1804) but retained high office under Napoleon: Arch-Chancellor of the Empire and President of the House of Peers from 2 June, to 7 July 1815. He also became a prince of the Empire and in 1808 was made Duke of Parma (French: \"duc de Parme\"). His duchy was one of the twenty created as a \"duché grand-fief\" (among 2200 noble titles created by Napoleon)—a rare hereditary honor, extinguished upon Cambacérès' death in 1824. He was essentially second in command of France during the Napoleonic era.\n\nUnder Napoleon, he was a force for moderation and reason, opposing adventures such as the Spanish affairs in 1808 and the invasion of Russia in 1812. Nevertheless, Cambacérès was extremely trusted by Napoleon and was constantly consulted for advice; Cambacérès even sat as Council of State when Bonaparte was involved in other affairs. As Napoleon became increasingly obsessed with military affairs, Cambacérès became the \"de facto\" domestic head of government of France, a position which inevitably made him increasingly unpopular as France's economic situation grew worse. As more and more of Napoleon's ministers proved themselves untrustworthy, Cambacérès' power continued to grow. His taste for high living also attracted hostile comments. Nevertheless, he was given credit for the justice and moderation of his government, although the enforcement of conscription was increasingly resented towards the end of the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nWhen the Empire fell in 1814, Cambacérès retired to private life but was later called upon during Napoléon's brief return to power in 1815. During the Hundred Days, the short period of time when Napoleon returned from exile, Cambacérès served as the minister of justice. After the restoration of the monarchy, he was in danger of arrest for his revolutionary activities, and he was exiled from France in 1816. The fact that he had opposed the execution of Louis XVI counted in his favor, and in May 1818 his civil rights as a citizen of France were restored. From 1815 and on, Cambacérès used the title of Duke of Cambacérès (on the fall of the Empire, the Duchy of Parma passed to former Empress Marie Louise). He was a member of the Académie française and lived quietly in Paris until his death in 1824.\n\nThe common belief that Cambacérès is responsible for decriminalizing homosexuality in France is in error.\n\nBefore the French Revolution, sodomy had been a capital crime under royal legislation. The penalty was burning at the stake. Very few men, however, were ever actually prosecuted and executed for consensual sodomy (no more than five in the entire eighteenth century). Sodomites arrested by the police were more usually released with a warning or held in prison for, at most, a few weeks or months. The National Constituent Assembly revised French criminal law in 1791 and got rid of a variety of offenses inspired by religion, including blasphemy. Sodomy was not specifically mentioned but was covered under the umbrella of 'religious crimes'. Since there was no public debate, its motives remain unknown (a similar state of affairs occurred during the early years of the Russian Revolution).\n\nCambacérès was a homosexual, his sexual orientation was well-known, and he does not seem to have made any effort to conceal it. He remained unmarried, and kept to the company of other bachelors. Napoleon is recorded as making a number of jokes on the subject. Upon hearing that Cambacérès had recruited a woman for a mission, Napoleon responded with, \"my compliments, so you have come closer to women?\". Robert Badinter once mentioned in a speech to the French National Assembly, during debates on reforming the homosexual age of consent, that Cambacérès was known in the gardens of the Palais-Royal as \"Tante Urlurette\".\n\nIn fact, however, Cambacérès was not responsible for ending the legal prosecution of homosexuals. He did play a key role in drafting the Code Napoléon, but this was a civil law code. He had nothing to do with the Penal Code of 1810, which covered sexual crimes.\n\nThe authors of the Penal Code of 1810 had the option of reintroducing a law against male homosexuality (as was eventually done in the Soviet Union), but there is no evidence that they even considered doing so. This had nothing to do with the influence of Cambacérès, as recent research has shown. However, Napoleonic officials could and did repress public expressions of homosexuality using other laws, such as \"offenses against public decency\". Nevertheless, despite police surveillance and harassment, the Revolutionary and Napoleonic era was a time of relative freedom for homosexuals and opened the modern era of legal toleration for homosexuality in Europe. Napoleonic conquests imposed the principles of Napoleon's Penal Code (including the decriminalization of homosexuality) on many other parts of Europe, including Belgium, the Netherlands, the Rhineland, and Italy. Other states freely followed the French example, including Bavaria in 1813 and Spain in 1822.\n\nCambacérès' colleagues also didn't fail to poke fun at his gluttony. When he met with the Council while Napoleon was away, everyone knew that the meeting would be over before lunch. He was known for having the best dinners in France and for his extravagant lifestyle. According to him, \"a country is governed by good dinner parties\". His estate was worth around 7.3 million francs (around €50 million in 2015 euros) upon his death in 1824. His body now lies in the cemetery of Père Lachaise where he was buried with military honors.\n\nCambaceres was admitted to the lodge of \"Les Amis Fidèles\" in Montpellier in 1775. During Napoleon's reign, he was charged by the Emperor to monitor Freemasonry in France. From 1805 to 1815, he was the assistant of Joseph Bonaparte, Grand Master of Grand Orient de France, and managed the post-revolutionary rebirth of French freemasonry. During his term, more than 1200 lodges were created.\n\n"}
{"id": "397326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397326", "title": "John McAllion", "text": "John McAllion\n\nJohn McAllion (born 13 February 1948, Glasgow) is a campaigner for the Scottish Socialist Party, as well as former Labour Party Member of Parliament (MP), Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP), and convenor of Tayside Regional Council. He is also convener of the Scottish Fairtrade Forum.\n\nMcAllion was originally a member of the Scottish Labour Party (SLP) that was formed in 1976 by Jim Sillars, when the SLP collapsed he chose to join the Labour Party (unlike Sillars who joined the Scottish National Party). A teacher by profession, McAllion became a Labour member of Tayside regional council of which he became the convenor in 1986. In the 1987 general election McAllion was elected Labour MP for the Dundee East constituency, defeating SNP leader Gordon Wilson, who had been the sitting MP since 1974.\n\nMcAllion was a member of Scottish Labour Action, putting him on the Scottish nationalist wing of the Labour Party, and of the Campaign for Socialism, placing him firmly on the left of the party. As befitted a member of the Scottish Labour Action group he strongly favoured home rule for Scotland, and was often outspoken in his defence of civic-minded Scottish nationalism. In 1999 he was elected to the Scottish Parliament to represent Dundee East.\n\nAs an MSP, he furthered his reputation as a left-winger, rebelling several times against the Labour-led Scottish Executive. He was also convenor of the Scottish Parliament's Petitions Committee. In 2000 he helped establish the Scottish Left Review publication. At the 2003 parliament election he lost his seat to Shona Robison, the SNP candidate. The Scottish Socialist Party (SSP) pulled out of contesting the seat in favour of McAllion, but ironically this may have assisted his defeat.\n\nSince the election defeat, McAllion resigned his membership of the Labour Party, subsequently joining the Scottish Socialist Party. On 9 February 2006, McAllion stood for the SSP in the Dunfermline and West Fife by-election, coming fifth place with 1.6% of the vote.\n\nHe was elected to the SSP executive at its conference in March 2006. He was elected co-chair (along with Morag Balfour) at its conference in October 2007, but he stood down during his term of office for personal reasons. However, he remains active in campaigning with the party, particularly in the run-up to the independence referendum.\n"}
{"id": "3558431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3558431", "title": "Joseph Jastrow", "text": "Joseph Jastrow\n\nJoseph Jastrow (January 30, 1863 – January 8, 1944) was a Polish-born American psychologist, noted for inventions in experimental psychology, design of experiments, and psychophysics. He also worked on the phenomena of optical illusions, and a number of well-known optical illusions (such as the Jastrow illusion) were either discovered or popularized in his work. Jastrow believed that everyone had their own, often incorrect, preconceptions about psychology. One of his goals was to use the scientific method to identify truth from error, and educate the layperson, which he did through speaking tours, popular print media, and radio.\n\nJastrow was born in Warsaw, Poland. A son of Talmud scholar Marcus Jastrow, Joseph Jastrow was the younger brother of the orientalist, Morris Jastrow, Jr. Joseph Jastrow came to Philadelphia in 1866 and received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Pennsylvania. During his doctoral studies at Johns Hopkins University, Jastrow worked with C. S. Peirce on experiments in psychophysics that introduced randomization and blinding for a repeated measures design. From 1888 until his retirement in 1927, Jastrow was a professor at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he advised Clark L. Hull. He was a lecturer at the New School of Social Research from 1927 to 1933.\n\nJastrow was head of the psychological section of the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893, where he collected \"psychophysical and reaction time data\" from thousands of attendees. He was one of the charter members of the American Psychological Association, and became its president in 1900.\n\nJastrow was noted for his outreach in popular media, exposing the general public to research in psychology. He gave public lectures, and was published in popular magazines, including Popular Science, Cosmopolitan, and Harper's Monthly. He also wrote \"Keeping Mentally Fit\", a syndicated column that appeared in 150 newspapers.\n\nJastrow suffered from bouts of depression throughout his life. He died in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. His wife was Rachel Szold, a sister of Henrietta Szold.\n\nHis former home in Madison, Wisconsin is located in what is now the Langdon Street Historic District.\n\nJastrow was one of the founding members of the American Society for Psychical Research for study of the \"mesmeric, psychical, and spiritual\". The early members of the society were skeptical of paranormal phenomena; Jastrow took a psychological approach to psychical phenomena, believing that it was foolish to separate \"... a class of problems from their natural habitat ...\". By 1890 he had resigned from the society, and he became an outspoken critic of parapsychology. Psychical researchers were rarely trained psychologists, and Jastrow thought their research lacked credibility.\nGiven the lack of evidence of psychical phenomena, he believed psychologists should not prioritize disproving claimed psychical phenomenon. In his book \"The Psychology of Conviction\" (1918) he included an entire chapter exposing what he called Eusapia Palladino's tricks.\n\nJastrow was a leading figure in the field of anomalistic psychology. His book \"Fact and Fable in Psychology\" (1900) debunked claims of occultism including Spiritualism, Theosophy and Christian Science. He approached the occult in a scientific manner. He wanted to understand why people were attracted to it, how it gained a foothold in society, and what evidence its supporters used. He wrote that many people considered coincidence, dreams, and premonitions as sources of information above science, and said the role of the scientist was to help the public understand truth from fiction, and to prevent the spreading of erroneous beliefs.\n\nJastrow studied the psychology of paranormal belief and viewed paranormal phenomena as \"totally unscientific and misleading\", being the result of delusion, fraud, gullibility and irrationality.\n\nJastrow thought that analogies represented a more primitive way of interpreting the world. He gave many examples of cultures that acted analogously, including the \"Zulu chewing a bit of wood to soften the heart ...\", and the \"Illinois Indians making figures of those whose days they desire to shorten, and stabbing these images in the heart.\" He wrote about cultures that ate animals to gain their physical attributes; he said this tradition still persisted in his day, through superstitions, rituals, and folk medicine. The underlying motivation for this mentality, Jastrow wrote, was that \"one kind of connection ... will bring it to others.\" \n\nJastrow was interested in perception, especially eyesight. He thought that eyesight was more complex than a camera, and that the mental processing of images was central to interpretation of the world. He illustrated this through optical illusions, including the rabbit-duck illusion. He believed that what people saw also depended on their emotional state and their surroundings.\n\nTo detect unconscious movement of the hand, Jastrow invented a machine he called the automagraph. He found that when a subject was asked to concentrate on an object, their hand moved unconsciously in that direction. The magnitude of the effect varied across individuals, especially in children, where the movement was more random.\n\nJastrow found that people who had lost their eyesight after age six still were able to see in their dreams, and that people who had lost their eyesight before the age of five could not. This same difference in perception and age was true for people with partial vision loss. Jastrow concluded that sight was not innate, and that significant mental development occurred between ages five and seven. He noted that hearing, not sensation, was the primary sense of the blind, in both waking and dream. He collected first-hand accounts of dreams from visually impaired individuals, including Helen Keller.\n\nJastrow's publications include: \n\n"}
{"id": "1570937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570937", "title": "Juana de Ibarbourou", "text": "Juana de Ibarbourou\n\nJuana Fernández Morales de Ibarbourou, also known as Juana de América, (1892–1979) was a Uruguayan poet and one of the most popular poets of Spanish America. Her poetry, the earliest of which is often highly erotic, is notable for her identification of her feelings with nature around her. She was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature four times.\n\nShe was born Juana Fernández Morales on March 8, 1892, in Melo, Cerro Largo, Uruguay. The date of Juana's birth is often given as March 8, 1895, but according to a local state civil registry signed by two witnesses, the year was actually 1892. Juana began studies at the José Pedro Varela school in 1899 and moved to a religious school the following year, and two public schools afterwards. In 1909, at 17 years old, she published a prose piece, \"Derechos femeninos\" (women's rights), beginning a lifelong career as a prominent feminist.\n\nShe married Captain Lucas Ibarbourou Trillo (1879-1942) in a civil ceremony June 28, 1913, and had one child named Julio César Ibarbourou Fernandez (1914-1988). In 1918, Juana moved to Montevideo with her family. As was the custom, Juana and Lucas were remarried in a religious ceremony on June 28, 1921 in the Church of Our Lady of Perpetual Aid. Lucas Ibarbourou died January 13, 1942. Their son Julio became a compulsive gambler and drug addict and Juana spent nearly all of her money, eventually having to sell her houses, property and jewelry, to pay his debts and the costs of his medical care.\n\nJuana de Ibarbourou died July 15, 1979 in Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\nJuana de Ibarbourou was a feminist, naturalist, and pantheist.\n\nJuana de Ibarbourou was an early Latin American feminist. Ibarbourou's feminism is evident in poems such as \"La Higuera\", in which she describes a fig tree as more beautiful than the straight and blooming trees around it, and \"Como La Primavera\", in which she asserts that authenticity is more attractive than any perfume. Also, in \"La Cita\", Ibarbourou extols her naked form devoid of traditional ornamentation, comparing her natural features to various material accessories and finding in favor of her unadorned body.\n\nNature imagery and eroticism define a great body of Ibarbourou's poetry.\n\nIbarbourou's depiction of death in her poetry was not consistent throughout her body of work. In \"La Inquietud Fugaz\", Ibarbourou portrayed a binary, final death consistent with Western tradition. In \"Vida-Garfio\" and \"Carne Inmortal\", however, Ibarbourou describes her dead body giving rise to plant life, allowing her to live on.\n\nIn \"Rebelde\", one of Ibarbourou's most richly constructed poems, Ibarbourou details a confrontation between herself and Charon, the ferryman of the River Styx. Surrounded by wailing souls on the boat passage to the underworld, Ibarbourou defiantly refuses to lament her fate, acting as cheerfully as a sparrow. Although Ibarbourou does not escape her fate, she wins a moral victory against the forces of death.\n\nLike most poets, Ibarbourou nursed an intense fear of death. Though it is easy to surmise this from her poetry, she states so explicitly in the first line of \"Carne Inmortal.\"\n\n\"RECONQUISTA\" (Reconquest)\n\n\"No sé de donde regresó el anhelo\" \n\"De volver a cantar como en el tiempo\" \n\"en que tenía entre mi puño el cielo\" \n\"Y con una perla azul el pensamiento.\"\n\n\"De una enlutada nube, la centella,\" \n\"Súbito pez, hendió la noche cálida\" \n\"Y en mí se abrió de nuevo la crisálida\" \n\"Del verso alado y su bruñida estrella.\"\n\n\"Ahora ya es el hino centelleante\" \n\"Que alza hasta Dios la ofrenda poderosa\" \n\"De su bruñida lanza de diamante.\"\n\n\"Unidad de la luz sobre la rosa.\" \n\"Y otra vez la conquista alucinante\" \n\"De la eterna poesía victoriosa.\"\n\n\"-Montevideo, 1960\" \n\"Mi pequeño regalo de Pascuas para Nimia Vicens Madrazo,\" \n\"en su espléndido San Juan de Puerto Rico. Afectuosamente. -Juana de Ibarbourou\"\n\n\n\nIn Melo, capital city of Cerro Largo Department, there are two museums that display her life:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1965169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1965169", "title": "Kenechi Udeze", "text": "Kenechi Udeze\n\nKenechi Nduka Udeze (; born March 5, 1983) is a former American college and professional football player who was a defensive end in the National Football League (NFL) for four seasons during the early 2000s. He played college football for the University of Southern California (USC), and earned consensus All-American honors. The Minnesota Vikings picked Udeze in the first round of the 2004 NFL Draft. He was forced to retire in 2008 after he was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.\n\nUdeze was born in Los Angeles. He attended Verbum Dei High School, a Jesuit-affiliated Roman Catholic school in Los Angeles, where he played high school football for the Verbum Dei Eagles and competed in track as a shot putter (top-throw of 56-7 or 17.34m).\n\nWhile attending the University of Southern California, Udeze played for coach Pete Carroll's USC Trojans football team from 2001 to 2003. He was a three-year starter and helped his team to a 2004 Rose Bowl victory and AP national title as a junior. He finished his college career with 135 tackles (51 of them for a loss), 28 sacks (a school record), 14 forced fumbles, three fumble recoveries, one interception, five pass deflections, and two blocked kicks. As a junior in 2003, he was a first-team All-Pac-10 selection, and was recognized as a consensus first-team All-American.\n\nUdeze was drafted by the Minnesota Vikings in the first round (twentieth overall pick) of the 2004 NFL Draft. During his rookie season with the Vikings, he started 15 games and recorded 36 tackles, five sacks, one forced fumble, and one pass deflected. As a second year pro, Udeze was injured in the Vikings third game of the season with cartilage damage in his left knee, which kept him out the rest of the year. Udeze finished the season with three games started, five tackles, and one quarterback sack. In 2006, he was once again the starter at left defensive end, playing 16 games, starting 15 and recorded 29 tackles and no sacks. The following year, he again playing in all 16 games, with 15 starts, and had 47 tackles and five sacks.\n\nOn February 11, 2008, it was announced that Udeze was diagnosed by doctors with a form of leukemia: acute lymphoblastic leukemia. KMSP-TV (Ch. 9) also reported that Udeze was at Fairview Southdale Hospital undergoing tests and that he was at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester the week before. Udeze revealed that his acute leukemia is in a state of remission. Udeze will get a bone marrow transplant from his brother.\n\nThe Vikings placed Udeze on the non-football injury list and eventually injured reserve in July 2008, ending his season. Udeze returned to the Metrodome as an honorary captain for a game against the Green Bay Packers on November 9, 2008, where he said he would return to playing football. \"You know what? I'll be back next year,\" Udeze told the St. Paul Pioneer Press.\n\nUdeze was able to get back into good enough condition to return to the Vikings for 2009 pre-season training, reaching the physical form he was in before his illness. He took 26 snaps during a Vikings mini-camp, but struggled with peripheral neuropathy in his feet, a result of his chemotherapy. The chemotherapy-induced neuropathy caused numbness that kept him from being able to plant firmly and create a burst up the field after the snap. Finding himself unable to move at the level he was accustomed to, Udeze decided to retire. He announced his decision to retire on July 29, 2009.\n\nDuring his illness, Udeze decided to return to USC, where he resumed taking classes. In May 2010, Udeze graduated with a degree in sociology.\n\nFormer USC assistant coach Steve Sarkisian, who had become head coach of the Washington Huskies, hired Udeze as an assistant strength and conditioning coach. He also worked with the defensive line. He also works heavily with charities that help raise money for cancer research.\n\nIn 2012, Udeze was hired as an assistant defensive line coach for the Seattle Seahawks. In 2013, Udeze completed the Bill Walsh NFL Minority Coaching Fellowship program with the Minnesota Vikings.\n\nIn 2014, Udeze was hired as an assistant strength and conditioning coach at the University of Pittsburgh.\n\nIn 2015, Udeze returned to his alma mater, University of Southern California, to work as an assistant strength and conditioning coach, where he rejoined former Washington coaches Steve Sarkisian and Ivan Lewis. In 2016, he was made defensive line coach.\n\n"}
{"id": "8798023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8798023", "title": "Leon Davidson", "text": "Leon Davidson\n\nLeon Davidson (October 18, 1922 – January 1, 2007) was a chemical engineer and scientist, one of the team that developed the atomic bomb.\n\nA native of New York City, Davidson received his B.S. (1943), M.S. (1947) and Ph.D. (1951) in chemical engineering from Columbia University's School of Engineering and Applied Science. He had selected this career at the age of 13 while studying at Stuyvesant High School. During his graduate studies, he was personally selected by future SEAS dean John R. Dunning to join the Manhattan Project, the US atomic bomb development program. After an assignment at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, he moved his family to Los Alamos, New Mexico, where he eventually became an engineering design supervisor for one of the atomic weapons then under development. He then accepted assignments at the Atomic Energy Commission and the Department of Defense at The Pentagon before moving into the private sector.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, he joined the Nuclear Development Corporation of America in White Plains, New York, entering the emerging field of computer technology and development. Following stints in management at several large technology companies including Union Carbide, Teleregister, Western Union, General Precision Laboratories, and IBM (where he was Manager of Advanced Applications Development), he became an independent consultant, working for both government clients including Oak Ridge National Laboratories and commercial clients including Mini-Computer Systems of Elmsford, New York.\n\nOn the side, he formed his own technology consulting and design company (Metroprocessing Corporation of America) to explore and exploit the emerging technology of touch-tone dialing (now used for push-button telephones). His goal was to make Metroprocessing the single source of information on the application of the twelve button touch tone telephone to private companies and public agencies.\n\nIn the mid-to-late 1950s, Davidson volunteered at the Civil Defense Filter Center in White Plains, helping track and identify aircraft flying over the New York metropolitan area. He devoted much of his free time to the study of Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs). He convinced a Congressional committee to force the Air Force to permit him to publish and distribute, in its entirety, the Air Force's Project Blue Book Special Report No. 14, the primary source book on the Air Force’s findings related to UFO’s.\n\nDavidson firmly believed that the objects reported to be extraterrestrial spacecraft were, in fact, experimental aircraft developed by the Air Force or CIA. On June 29, 2018, Davidson's son, Edward Davidson, found an article containing a photograph clearly showing two \"saucers\" in front of a hangar and surrounded by workers, two small planes and a few trucks. In the photo, the left side of the smaller \"saucer\" is clearly marked \"USAF\". The larger \"saucer\" has what appears to be \"USAF\" also but is not as clearly visible.. \n\nAn avid thinker, Davidson spent many hours analyzing major national and world events, including the Kennedy assassination, questionable Presidential elections and the Jonestown massacre.\n\nDavidson died in White Plains Hospital on January 1, 2007. His ashes are buried in White Plains, New York, He was survived by his wife, Doris, his three children (Ed, Carole, and Martha), his two granddaughters (Leah and Rachel), and his three great-grandsons (Alex, Wesley, and Nathan) and great-granddaughter (Maddie).\n\n"}
{"id": "978525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=978525", "title": "Marc Emery", "text": "Marc Emery\n\nMarc Scott Emery (born February 13, 1958) is a Canadian cannabis rights activist, entrepreneur and politician. Often described as 'the Prince of Pot', Emery has been a notable advocate of international cannabis policy reform. He has been active in the New Democratic Party, the Freedom Party of Canada, the Unparty, the Marijuana Party of Canada, and the Conservative Party of Canada as well as the British Columbia Marijuana Party, and the Green Party of British Columbia.\n\nAs a political libertarian, Emery has also protested against Sunday shopping laws, obscenity laws, political endorsement of sporting events, Canadian censorship, and several taxes.\n\nHe is the spouse of fellow activist Jodie Emery. Until the business was raided by police, the couple were co-owners of Cannabis Culture, a business that franchised pot dispensaries, later deemed to be illegal. They had obtained the cannabis from illegal sources, according to Crown prosecutors. They also operate Cannabis Culture magazine and Pot TV.\n\nEmery has been jailed several times, and in 2009 was sentenced to a five-year sentence in a United States federal prison for selling mail-order cannabis seeds in the US. On December 16, 2016, he was arrested in Montreal and charged with drug trafficking, possession for trafficking and conspiracy. On March 8, 2017, the couple was arrested at Pearson International Airport and the Cannabis Culture shops were raided, leading to charges on a number of offences. The charges against 17 employees were withdrawn, but Marc Emery was convicted of possession of marijuana for purpose of trafficking, trafficking marijuana and possession of proceeds of crime more than $5,000. Jodie Emery was convicted of possession of marijuana for the purpose of trafficking and possession of proceeds of crime over $5,000. They were required to pay fines ($150,000 and a $45,000 victim surcharge) and placed on two year probation.\n\nEmery lives in Toronto, Ontario, with his wife Jodie Emery.\n\nAt the age of 9 Emery started a business from his parents' home called Stamp Treasure, buying and selling stamps by mail order. Two years later he started another mail-order business called Marc's Comic Room that he started by using the money saved from Stamp Treasure. The business sold used comic books and earned him about $120 a week.\n\nHe dropped out of high school in 1975 at age 17 to purchase a used book store on Richmond Street in downtown London, Ontario which he renamed City Lights Bookshop. Emery operated the store for 17 years, selling it in 1992. Emery also ran an emergency garbage service in London for three weeks during a municipal garbage strike in 1986.\n\nHe worked on the New Democratic Party's campaign in London East in the 1979 federal election. He began to criticize police for slow response times to robberies in what was the \"core area\". He believed in private security officers for merchants and business owners because he felt the police were not doing their job of protecting. He then started an expensive legal campaign to have the annual levy tax of $35 a year for downtown improvements to be eliminated, stating that it favored a handful of the elite. He ran for the Libertarian Party of Canada in the 1980 federal election. He received 197 votes in London East, finishing fourth.\n\nIn November 1982, Emery unsuccessfully ran for Alderman in Ward 3 of Hamilton, Ontario on the promise to cut taxes and pay for park improvements by raising the money himself.\n\nEmery later left the Libertarians and became a London-area organizer for the Unparty. They believed in free enterprise and opposed the involvement of government in Canadian's lives. In 1983 Robert Metz, who had worked with Emery since 1980, was made president of the Unparty and later that year announced the Unparty would change its name to the Freedom Party of Ontario, which continues to be a registered political party in the Province of Ontario. Emery served as the Freedom Party's Action Director from 1984 to 1990.\n\nIn 1984, Emery, the Freedom Party, and the No Tax for Pan-Am Games Committee (founded by Emery and Metz) successfully campaigned against London's bid for the 1991 Pan American Games, saying the city would lose millions.\n\nIn 1985, Emery ran for Alderman in Ward 3 and lost again.\n\nIn December, 1986, Emery was charged under the Retail Business Holidays Act for opening his store on Sunday. In April 1988, he was cleared of charges of opening on Sunday because a provincial judge rule that the prosecution failed to prove Emery was the owner of the bookstore at the time.\n\nIn May 1987 during a strike by city workers, Emery paid for truck rentals and volunteers to pick up garbage and do the jobs for the people on strike. This caused outrage, leading to the strikers threatening to dump garbage on Emery's front lawn.\n\nIn July 1987, Emery defied Ontario's Sunday shopping laws, and faced eight charges after opening for eight Sundays in a row. In February 1988, he was ordered to pay a $500 fine for refusing to follow the opening charge. Vowing to go to jail rather than pay a fine, in June 1988, he was sent to Elgin-Middlesex Detention Centre after being convicted on the first of the charges and then refusing to pay the fine. Friends and customers of his bookstore paid for the fine and he was released three days later.\n\nEmery ran as a candidate of the Freedom Party in the rural constituency of Middlesex, near London, in the 1987 provincial election. He received 499 votes for a distant fifth-place finish.\n\nIn 1991, Emery was convicted for selling copies of 2 Live Crew's rap CD \"As Nasty As They Wanna Be\" which had been deemed obscene and banned in Ontario. He was given one year's probation, but immediately after sentencing he began selling marijuana-related literature and \"High Times\" magazine, all in violation of Canadian law. Emery invited local police to his store to arrest him, and even sold copies of the banned marijuana grow books right outside the London, Ontario police station, but the police refused to charge him or interfere. He also sponsored visits from marijuana luminaries such as Ed Rosenthal, Steven Hager, Jack Herer and Paul Mavrides.\n\nEmery moved to Vancouver, British Columbia in March 1994, and founded a store called Hemp BC on July 7. His store played a major part in expanding Canada's then very small and underground industry in cannabis-related paraphernalia. Bongs and pipes are illegal to sell or promote in Canada under section 462.2 of the Criminal Code, and were not readily available in Canada at the time. Emery imported and wholesaled a variety of bongs, pipes and other cannabis-related items, and encouraged other people to open their own \"Hemp Stores\" across Canada.\n\nIn late 1994, a court challenge sponsored by Emery convinced an Ontario judge to overturn the Canadian prohibition on marijuana and drug-related literature, making it legal for \"High Times\" magazine and marijuana grow books to be sold in Canada once more.\n\nEmery began selling marijuana seeds in late 1994, after attending the \"High Times\" Cannabis Cup and being inspired by a Dutch seed store named Sensi Seeds. In early 1995 he launched \"Cannabis Canada Magazine\", which was renamed \"Cannabis Culture\" magazine in 1998.\n\nIn December 1995, Emery and his seed business were featured on the front page of \"The Wall Street Journal\", leading to a deluge of media attention. One month later, in January 1996, Hemp BC was raided by Vancouver police who seized Emery's bongs and seeds and charged him with selling marijuana seeds and \"promoting vaporizers.\" He was later convicted and given a $2,200 fine, $500 for each of four counts of selling marijuana seeds and $200 for vaporizer promotion.\n\nEmery re-opened his store the next day, and continued to sell paraphernalia and marijuana seeds. By 1997 he had expanded his store to include a Grow Shop, a Legal Assistance Centre, and the Cannabis Cafe, which featured a custom-built vaporizer built into every table.\n\nOn October 12, 1997, Marc Emery was featured on \"CNN Impact\" in an episode called \"Canada Cannabis.\" The announcer referred to Emery as the \"Prince of Pot\" and the label stuck. This drew major international media attention to Emery and his Hemp BC store once more.\n\nThe Vancouver police returned on December 16, 1997, once again emptying his store of seeds and paraphernalia, as well as taking the vaporizers out of the Cannabis Cafe. Police claimed to have seized about $1.6 million worth of marijuana-related merchandise, plus tens of thousands of marijuana seeds.\n\nEmery was jailed but not charged with any seed or paraphernalia offences but he was charged and convicted of \"assaulting a police officer\" because he spat on a police officer while they were forcibly removing protesters from in front of the store. In a later interview, Emery stated \"I was found guilty and fined two hundred dollars. My defense was that it was justifiable as they were assaulting my employees. We have video tape of them kicking, shoving objects at, using a truncheon, and pulling on the hair of David Malmo-Levine and Ian Roberts. I wanted to show my disgust in a non-violent way, and to draw the police toward me and away from my employees.\"\n\nEmery was also banned from returning to the 300 block of West Hastings, where his businesses were located.\n\nEmery re-opened Hemp BC the next day but then sold the store to his manager shortly thereafter, who suffered repeated raids during 1998 and then had her business licence revoked by the city.\n\nEmery's seed business was raided again at its office location on April 30, 1998, and Emery was charged with selling marijuana seeds. Another raid on September 2, 1998, saw Emery jailed overnight again and his seeds confiscated, but no charges were laid. He was convicted from the April raid in 1999, and given a $2,000 fine.\n\nIn August 1998, Vancouver Mayor Philip Owen had told \"The New York Times\" that Hemp BC was \"going to be toast by September.\"\n\nCourt documents showed that four American Navy undercover agents attempted to buy marijuana and smoke it at the Cannabis Cafe. The documents showed the Naval Criminal Investigative Service agents worked in a joint operation with Vancouver police in April 1998.\n\nEmery was convicted on charges of selling marijuana seeds in 1998, and received a $2,000 fine. He switched his walk-in marijuana seed business to mail-order only, and continued to publish \"Cannabis Culture\" magazine. In early 2000 he was expanding again, with the establishment of Pot-TV, a marijuana-related video channel.\n\nIn 2001, Emery was a featured presenter at Idea City, an annual gathering of notable Canadians organized by Moses Znaimer.\n\nIn November 2002, then US drug czar John Walters visited Vancouver to give a speech at a luncheon sponsored by the Vancouver Board of Trade. Emery bought a table for himself and other local cannabis activists, and heckled Walters as he spoke about the need for Canada to embrace the \"War on Drugs.\"\n\nFrom 1998 until his arrest in 2005, Emery paid provincial and federal taxes as a \"marijuana seed vendor\" totalling nearly $600,000.\n\nEmery has described himself as a \"major financial backer of almost every pro-pot effort in North America and many more around the world.\" He claims that he spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in election campaigning for the Canadian Marijuana Party, BC Marijuana Party and the Vancouver Marijuana Party. He also claims to have funded numerous marijuana activist groups, paid for several major legal challenges to aspects of Canada's cannabis laws, and made large donations to various pro-pot ballot initiatives in US states such as California, Nevada, Alaska and Arizona, plus financially backed pro-cannabis activities in New Zealand, Australia, Russia and elsewhere around the world.\n\nEmery is featured in the 2007 CBC documentary film \"Prince of Pot: The US vs. Marc Emery\", and CBC Doc Zone episode \"Cannabiz.\" He also appears in a 2007 documentary called , and the 2007 comedy documentary \"Super High Me\". Finally, Emery was the focus of the 2013 feature documentary, Citizen Marc.\n\nIn 2000 he was a founding member of the Marijuana Party of Canada, a political party running to fully legalize (not just decriminalize) cannabis. In 2001 he helped found the British Columbia Marijuana Party (BCMP), which he currently leads.\n\nEmery ran for the Canadian House of Commons as a Marijuana Party Candidate in the 2000 federal election, and finished sixth out of ten candidates in Vancouver Centre with 1,116 votes. Liberal Hedy Fry won the riding.\n\nThe BCMP placed fifth in the 2001 provincial election and was only a few hundred votes short of fourth place. Emery himself received 905 votes in Vancouver-Burrard, finishing fourth against BC Liberal Lorne Mayencourt.\n\nEmery has been the BC Marijuana Party's president since its founding, and also became party leader in 2003, when Leader Dana Larsen resigned to join the NDP.\n\nIn the 2005 British Columbia election, Emery ran for the BC Marijuana in Fort Langley-Aldergrove against provincial Solicitor General Rich Coleman, but was defeated.\n\nOn July 30, 2008, Emery announced he was running for mayor of Vancouver in the November election, and MLA in the upcoming by-election for the constituency of Vancouver-Fairview which remains vacant after Gregor Robertson won the Vision Vancouver nomination to run for mayor.\n\nIn federal politics, Emery has been a public supporter of the New Democratic Party since in 2003 Jack Layton supported the legalization of marijuana. In November 2003, Layton was a guest on Emery's \"Pot TV\" program. During the 20-minute interview, Emery urged marijuana activists to support the NDP in the 2004 federal election.\n\nHe endorsed Svend Robinson's candidacy in Vancouver Centre during the 2006 federal election campaign, and obtained permission from a judge to have his bail conditions varied so that he could campaign for the NDP candidate.\n\nIn the 2009 BC provincial election, Emery supported the Green Party of British Columbia. His wife, Jodie Emery, was the BC Green candidate in Vancouver-Fraserview and sought the Liberal Party of Canada's nomination in Vancouver East for the 2015 federal election, however, her candidacy was disallowed by the party.\n\nMarc Emery endorsed Maxime Bernier's candidacy for the leadership of the federal Conservative Party in 2016 and announced his intention to join the Conservatives in order to vote for Bernier, due the candidate's libertarian platform.\n\nIn 2003, when the prohibition of cannabis in Canada was in limbo due to court decisions that struck down the marijuana laws because of flaws in the government's medicinal marijuana program, Emery launched \"the Summer of Legalization\" tour, travelling to 18 cities across Canada to openly smoke marijuana in front of police stations and demonstrate that marijuana was currently legal in Canada, as featured in the documentary \"Escape to Canada\".\n\nOn August 19, 2004, Emery was sentenced to 92 days in jail in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Emery had been convicted of trafficking because a witness saw him pass a joint in March 2004. Emery's supporters held an ongoing daily vigil outside the courthouse until he was released. On October 18 he was released from the Saskatoon correctional centre after serving 61 days of his sentence.\n\nIn 2002, Emery founded the Iboga Therapy House, an ibogaine-assisted detoxification therapy program located on British Columbia's Sunshine Coast. Emery and his staff offered free ibogaine therapy to volunteer heroin and cocaine addicts with a plant-based alkaloid called ibogaine, which eliminates withdrawal symptoms and helps produce the mental change needed to quit using.\n\nEmery's Iboga Therapy House treated almost 60 people before he stopped funding in 2004, at a cost Emery states of over $2,000 per person. The Iboga Therapy House became a non-profit society in 2005 and continues to offer ibogaine therapy as an independent organization.\n\nEmery is a former retailer of cannabis seeds for cultivation, having started Marc Emery Direct Marijuana Seeds in 1995, which he ran until it was closed by a raid by the Vancouver Police Department acting on the request of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) on July 29, 2005.\n\nUS Government officials have described Emery as a drug dealer for his efforts to sell marijuana seeds in Canada and abroad. He was the publisher of \"Cannabis Culture\" magazine, a founding member of the Freedom Party of Ontario, the Marijuana Party of Canada and the BC Marijuana Party, founder of the Iboga Therapy House and founder of Pot TV. He ran for mayor of the city of Vancouver in 1996, 2002 and 2008.\n\nOn July 29, 2005, Canadian police, acting on a request from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), simultaneously raided the BC Marijuana Party Bookstore and Headquarters in Vancouver and arrested Emery for extradition to the United States outside a local storefront in the community of Lawrencetown, Nova Scotia where he was attending a HempFest.\n\nAmerican authorities charged Emery and co-defendants Gregory Keith Williams, 50, of Vancouver, BC and Michelle Rainey-Fenkarek, 34, of Vancouver, BC with \"'Conspiracy to Distribute Marijuana\", \"Conspiracy to Distribute Marijuana Seeds\" and \"Conspiracy to Engage in Money Laundering\". Even though all the alleged offences occurred in Canada, Canadian police did not lay any charges.\n\nThe day of Emery's arrest, American DEA Administrator Karen Tandy released the following statement:\n\nToday's DEA arrest of Marc Scott Emery, publisher of Cannabis Culture Magazine, and the founder of a marijuana legalization group—is a significant blow not only to the marijuana trafficking trade in the U.S. and Canada, but also to the marijuana legalization movement.\n\nHis marijuana trade and propagandist marijuana magazine have generated nearly $5 million a year in profits that bolstered his trafficking efforts, but those have gone up in smoke today.\n\nEmery and his organization had been designated as one of the Attorney General's most wanted international drug trafficking organizational targets—one of only 46 in the world and the only one from Canada.\n\nHundreds of thousands of dollars of Emery's illicit profits are known to have been channeled to marijuana legalization groups active in the United States and Canada. Drug legalization lobbyists now have one less pot of money to rely on.\n\nEmery was freed on a $50,000 bail and prepared to fight extradition in the courts.\n\nEmery and his two associates, all charged in the United States with drug and money laundering offences, each faced a minimum 10-year sentence and the possibility of life imprisonment if convicted there.\n\nOn January 14, 2008, Emery had agreed to a tentative plea-bargain with U.S. authorities. The terms of the agreement were a 5-year prison term to be served in both Canadian and U.S. prisons. In return, he demanded the charges against his friends Michelle Rainey and Greg Williams be dropped.\n\nOn March 27, 2008 the plea-bargain deal collapsed because of the refusal of the Canadian Conservative government to approve its side of the arrangement.\n\nIn late 2008, an extradition hearing was scheduled for June, 2009. However, before those hearings Emery agreed to plead guilty to one charge of drug distribution and accept a five-year sentence in the USA.\n\nOn September 21, 2009, Emery entered his guilty plea, and on September 28, he was incarcerated in a British Columbia prison awaiting extradition to a US federal prison to serve the five-year sentence. There is a 30-day appeal period before extradition.\n\nEmery was taken into custody on September 28, 2009, and held at the North Fraser Pretrial Centre in Port Coquitlam, BC, to await extradition to the USA. On November 18, 2009, Emery was released on bail, pending the Canadian Minister of Justice signing the extradition order; and on May 10, 2010, Justice Minister Rob Nicholson signed the order and ordered Emery to surrender to authorities, which he did that same day.\n\nEmery was granted bail on November 18, after seven weeks in the pre-trial centre, to await the Justice Minister's decision on the extradition order.\n\nWhile Emery was imprisoned, his supporters held a continuous vigil outside the prison with tents and banners for 45 days, ending when Emery was released on bail.\n\nOn September 10, 2010, Emery was sentenced to 5 years in prison minus time served.\n\nOn May 10, 2010, Justice Minister Nicholson ruled Emery be extradited to the United States. He faced five years in the US penal system. The possibility existed that Emery might be allowed to serve all or part of his sentence in Canada. US authorities had not rejected this option, should Canada make such a formal request. Emery did, however, serve his entire 5-year sentence in the United States.\n\nOn May 20, 2010, Emery was extradited to the United States. On May 24, he appeared in a Seattle courtroom and pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to manufacture marijuana.\n\nOn June 3, officials at the Federal Detention Center in SeaTac, Washington gave Emery an official citation for allowing his wife, BC Green Party Director-at-Large Jodie Emery, to record a message from him over the phone, claiming it broke the prison's rule forbidding third-party calls. Emery was locked in a Segregated Housing Unit (SHU) for three weeks.\n\nOn September 10, 2010 in a Seattle court room, Marc Emery was sentenced to five years in prison. US district court judge Ricardo Martinez sentenced Emery, stating there was no question his actions were criminal and that Emery ensured others broke the law by selling them the seeds. The court noted Emery claimed on his website to have made some $3 million a year from selling seeds from his Vancouver headquarters. Emery donated almost all of the money generated from his seed sales to marijuana policy reform efforts. Emery's claims that his arrest was political were disputed by the prosecution.\nOn November 19, 2010 Marc Emery was transferred to the D. Ray James Correctional Facility in Folkston, Georgia. He was later transferred to Federal Correctional Institution, Yazoo City Medium to serve the rest of his sentence.\n\nUntil April 2011 Emery was held by the Federal Bureau of Prisons at the D. Ray James Correctional Institution in Folkston, Georgia, when he was transferred to Yazoo City Prison in Mississippi.\n\nOn June 30, 2014, Emery announced his pending release in a blog post on the Cannabis Culture website. His sentence was originally for five years and he earned 235 days of credit for good conduct while incarcerated, his criminal sentence officially ended July 9. \"On Thursday, July 10th, US Immigration picks [him] up and takes [him] to the private, for-profit GEO Group LaSalle Detention Facility in Jena, Louisiana, where [he] will be processed for deportation back to Canada.\" Then he will be flown to Detroit, MI and transported across the border into Windsor, Ontario. Windsor, Ontario is a great distance from his home in Vancouver.\n\nOn July 9, 2014, Marc Emery was released from Yazoo City having completed his sentence. He was then transferred to LaSalle Detention Facility in Jena, La., an immigration facility where he was issued temporary passport and on Aug. 12 he was flown to Detroit where he crossed the border into Windsor, Canada. Emery served just over four years of his five-year sentence having earned 235 days of good conduct credit.\n\nOn December 15, 2016, Marc and Jodie Emery opened six Cannabis Culture marijuana \"dispensaries\" in Montreal, Quebec, despite the fact that the sale of marijuana in Canada is still illegal. The stores sold to anyone over the age of 19. Emery called opening an illegal dispensary as \"peaceful civil disobedience\", stating that it is the most effective way of changing marijuana laws in Canada. Emery vowed to open dispensaries across Canada. On 16 December 2016, Marc Emery was arrested at the Mont-Royal Avenue store, during a series of raids conducted by the Montreal police. Jodie Emery was released later that night with no charges, though Marc was held overnight because \"he refused to sign a release saying he would appear in court at a later date\". though police said they seized 18 kilograms of marijuana and arrested ten people. Following this arrest, Emery continued to open Cannabis Culture marijuana dispensaries in cities such as Hamilton and Ottawa. These shops are franchise operations. At one time, there were 19 Cannabis Culture dispensaries in operation, in British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec.\n\nMarc and Jodie Emery were again arrested at Toronto Pearson International Airport on March 8, 2017. He faced 15 charges, including conspiracy to commit an indictable offence, trafficking, possession for the purpose of trafficking, and possession of proceeds of crime. Jodie Emery faced five similar counts.\n\nOn March 9, 2017, search warrants were given in Toronto, Hamilton, and Vancouver as part of \"Project Gator\" a Toronto Police Service project that targeted marijuana dispensaries. This was in reaction to Acting Inspector Steve Watts allegations of Cannabis Culture having ties to organized crime, stating that given the amount of marijuana, the stores \"can only be supplied by illegitimate sources\" Five dispensaries in Toronto, one in Hamilton, one in Vancouver, and another in Ottawa were raided and shut down. Police seized $250,000 in cash in several different currencies. The police also searched two homes in Toronto, one in Stoney Creek, Ontario, and one in Vancouver that all had ties to Emery's Cannabis Culture franchise. Some of the dispensaries reopened the next day.\n\nOn March 10, Marc and Jodie were granted bail. The bail's conditions included a ban on possessing or consuming marijuana and other drugs except with a prescription, and a bar from going to any Cannabis Culture locations. They are banned from facilitating or participating in running any of the shops. After a guilty plea, the couple was convicted of drug related charges on December 18, 2017, fined and placed on two years probation. Three other individuals were also convicted of drug-related charges. The couple had claimed that the operation of pot shops was a form of civil disobedience, but Justice Leslie Chapin ruled as follows: \"No doubt there were pro social motivations that were behind the actions, but at the same time, I have to recognize that much profit was made\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43088203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43088203", "title": "Marie Curie Alumni Association", "text": "Marie Curie Alumni Association\n\nThe Marie Curie Alumni Association (MCAA) is a global network of researchers open to any past or present researchers supported by the Marie Skłodowska-Curie actions (MSCA).\n\nThe MCAA gathers thousands of members from all disciplines and from all over the world, and represents the over 100 000 researchers that have been supported by the MSCA. The vision of the MCAA is a future in which knowledge will be used to benefit society. The MCAA is a non-profit, politically and commercially independent organization, supported through funding from the European Union and partnership with research related organizations.\n\nThe Marie Curie Alumni Association (MCAA) is an association of researchers who have benefitted or are benefiting from a Marie Curie Action (recently renamed “Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions” under the “Excellent Science” pillar of EU’s Horizon 2020 Programme for Research). Researchers on the verge of working on a Marie Curie project are also eligible to join. Supervisors and Coordinators of Marie Curie Projects are eligible to join.\nThe main objective of the association is to provide its members with a space where they can share experiences and interests. Matthew DiFranco is the Chair of MCAA.\n\nThe Association was created at the General Assembly of 23 November 2013 in Brussels, Belgium, with the support of the European Commission’s Directorate General for Education and Culture (DG EAC).\nThe MCAA’s legal status is Association Internationale Sans But Lucratif (AISBL) – a non-profit international association. The Office is registered at Avenue des Arts 24 in Brussels, Belgium.\n\nThe MCAA comprises three management bodies:\n\n\nThe Board was elected at the General Assembly. Its members are: a Chair, two Vice-Chairs, a Treasurer, a Secretary and six Ordinary Board Members.\n\nThe MCAA has ten working groups:\n\n\nMCAA Chapters\n\nThe MCAA has many chapters, throughout Europe and globally, among them:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11650618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11650618", "title": "Maximilian Grabner", "text": "Maximilian Grabner\n\nMaximilian Grabner (2 October 1905 – 28 January 1948) was an Austrian Gestapo chief in Auschwitz. At Auschwitz, the infamous torture chamber Block 11 was Grabner's own empire. He was executed for crimes against humanity.\n\nBorn in Vienna, he joined the Austrian police force in 1930 and became a member of the then-illegal Nazi Party in 1933. After the Anschluß of Austria in 1938, he joined the SS and became a member of the Gestapo. He arrived at Katowice at the outbreak of World War II. He was transferred to Auschwitz concentration camp less than one year later. There he became Chief of the Political Department, the Gestapo.\n\nAs Gestapo chief he was responsible, among other things, for the fight against the resistance movement in the camp, as well as for the prevention of escapes and all contact with the outside world. These tasks were carried out with horrendous cruelties against the prisoners and a large number of incarcerations in the bunker in Block 11. Grabner's staff members, such as Wilhelm Boger, who was only brought to justice in the early 1960s, carried out so-called \"sharpened interrogations\", during which the victims were systematically tortured.\n\nGrabner, together with the commander of the \"Schutzhaftlager\", initiated, on a regular basis, clearings of the bunker: the inmates were examined and many of them were sent directly to the inner courtyard between Block 10 and Block 11, where they were shot. He once ordered SS-Untersturmführer Hans Stark to drop Zyklon B into a gas chamber. Along with Stark, Grabner personally took part in the shooting of Russian Commissars.\n\nIn 1943, he was arrested for theft, graft and corruption and was put on trial in Weimar a year later. After the trial, he returned to Katowice. Grabner was arrested by the Allies in 1945 and turned over to Poland in 1947. In the Auschwitz Trial he was found guilty of charges of murder and crimes against humanity, and was sentenced to death. Grabner was hanged on 28 January 1948.\n\n"}
{"id": "54975752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54975752", "title": "Maya &amp; Nancy Yamout", "text": "Maya &amp; Nancy Yamout\n\nNancy and Maya Yamout, also known as the \"Mulan Sisters\" or the \"Kamikaze Sisters,\" are social workers active in Beirut, Lebanon and internationally as the president and vice president of Rescue Me - Crime Prevention.\n\nRescue Me is a rehabilitation program for accused Islamist terrorists in Roumieh Prison. The program is based on research the sisters performed during their master's degree studies. After submitting their thesis titled \"The Role of Forensic Social Work in Terrorism and Knowing its Reasons and Effects on Society,\" the sisters created a system whereby they visit prisons holding accused terrorists to psychologically survey and rehabilitate them.\n\n"}
{"id": "20767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20767", "title": "Menachem Begin", "text": "Menachem Begin\n\nMenachem Begin (; \"Menaḥem Begin\", ; \"Menakhem Volfovich Begin\"; 16 August 1913 – 9 March 1992) was an Israeli politician, founder of Likud and the sixth Prime Minister of Israel. Before the creation of the state of Israel, he was the leader of the Zionist militant group Irgun, the Revisionist breakaway from the larger Jewish paramilitary organization Haganah. He proclaimed a revolt, on 1 February 1944, against the British mandatory government, which was opposed by the Jewish Agency. As head of the Irgun, he targeted the British in Palestine. Later, the Irgun fought the Arabs during the 1947–48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine.\n\nBegin was elected to the first Knesset, as head of Herut, the party he founded, and was at first on the political fringe, embodying the opposition to the Mapai-led government and Israeli establishment. He remained in opposition in the eight consecutive elections (except for a national unity government around the Six-Day War), but became more acceptable to the political center. His 1977 electoral victory and premiership ended three decades of Labor Party political dominance.\n\nBegin’s most significant achievement as Prime Minister was the signing of a peace treaty with Egypt in 1979, for which he and Anwar Sadat shared the Nobel Prize for Peace. In the wake of the Camp David Accords, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) withdrew from the Sinai Peninsula, which was captured from Egypt in the Six-Day War. Later, Begin’s government promoted the construction of Israeli settlements in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Begin authorized the bombing of the Osirak nuclear plant in Iraq and the invasion of Lebanon in 1982 to fight PLO strongholds there, igniting the 1982 Lebanon War. As Israeli military involvement in Lebanon deepened, and the Sabra and Shatila massacre, carried out by Christian Phalangist militia allies of the Israelis, shocked world public opinion, Begin grew increasingly isolated. As IDF forces remained mired in Lebanon and the economy suffered from hyperinflation, the public pressure on Begin mounted. Depressed by the death of his wife Aliza in November 1982, he gradually withdrew from public life, until his resignation in October 1983.\n\nMenachem Begin was born to Zeev Dov and Hassia Biegun in what was then Brest-Litovsk in the Russian Empire (today Brest, Belarus). He was the youngest of three children. On his mother's side he was descended from distinguished rabbis. His father, a timber merchant, was a community leader, a passionate Zionist, and an admirer of Theodor Herzl. The midwife who attended his birth was the grandmother of Ariel Sharon.\n\nAfter a year of a traditional cheder education Begin started studying at a \"Tachkemoni\" school, associated with the religious Zionist movement. In his childhood, Begin, like most Jewish children in his town, was a member of the Zionist scouts movement Hashomer Hatzair. He was a member of Hashomer Hatzair until the age of 13, and at 16, he joined Betar. At 14, he was sent to a Polish government school, where he received a solid grounding in classical literature.\n\nBegin studied law at the University of Warsaw, where he learned the oratory and rhetoric skills that became his trademark as a politician, and viewed as demagogy by his critics. During his studies, he organized a self-defense group of Jewish students to counter harassment by anti-Semites on campus. He graduated in 1935, but never practiced law. At this time, he became a disciple of Vladimir \"Ze'ev\" Jabotinsky, the founder of the nationalist Revisionist Zionism movement and its Betar youth wing. His rise within Betar was rapid: At 22, he shared the dais with his mentor at the Betar World Congress in Kraków. The pre-war Polish government actively supported Zionist youth and paramilitary movements. Begin's leadership qualities were quickly recognised. In 1937 he was the active head of Betar in Czechoslovakia and became head of the largest branch, that of Poland. As head of Betar's Polish branch, Begin traveled among regional branches to encourage supporters and recruit new members. To save money, he stayed at the homes of Betar members. During one such visit, he met his future wife Aliza Arnold, who was the daughter of his host. On 29 May 1939 the couple married. They had three children: Binyamin, Leah and Hassia.\n\nLiving in Warsaw in Poland, Begin encouraged Betar to set up an organization to bring Polish Jews to Palestine. He unsuccessfully attempted to smuggle 1,500 Jews into Romania at the end of August 1939. Returning to Warsaw afterward, he left three days after the German 1939 invasion began, first to the southwest and then to Wilno.\n\nIn September 1939, after Germany invaded Poland, Begin, in common with a large part of Warsaw's Jewish leadership, escaped to Wilno (today Vilnius), then eastern Poland, to avoid inevitable arrest. The town was soon occupied by the Soviet Union, but from 28 October 1939, it was the capital of the Republic of Lithuania. Wilno was a predominately Polish and Jewish town; an estimated 40 percent of the population was Jewish, with the YIVO institute located there. As a prominent pre-war Zionist and reserve status officer-cadet, on 20 September 1940, Begin was arrested by the NKVD and detained in the Lukiškės Prison. He wrote about his experience of being tortured, in later years. He was accused of being an \"agent of British imperialism\" and sentenced to eight years in the Soviet gulag camps. On 1 June 1941 he was sent to the Pechora labor camps in Komi Republic, the northern part of European Russia, where he stayed until May 1942. Much later in life, Begin would record and reflect upon his experiences in the interrogations and life in the camp in his memoir \"White Nights\".\n\nIn July 1941, just after Germany attacked the Soviet Union, and following his release under the Sikorski–Mayski agreement because he was a Polish national, Begin joined the Free Polish Anders' Army as a corporal officer cadet. He was later sent with the army to Palestine via the Persian Corridor, where he arrived in May 1942.\n\nUpon arriving in Palestine, Begin, like many other Polish Jewish soldiers of the Anders' Army, faced a choice between remaining with the Anders' Army to fight Nazi Germany in Europe, or staying in Palestine to fight for establishment of a Jewish state. While he initially wished to remain with the Polish army, he was eventually persuaded to change his mind by his contacts in the Irgun, as well as Polish officers sympathetic to the Zionist cause. Consequently, General Michał Karaszewicz-Tokarzewski, the second in command of the Army issued Begin with a \"leave of absence without an expiration\" which gave Begin official permission to stay in Palestine. In December 1942 he left Ander's Army and joined the Irgun.\n\nDuring the Holocaust, Begin's father was among the 5,000 Brest Jews rounded up by the Nazis at the end of June 1941. Instead of being sent to a forced labor camp, they were shot or drowned in the river. His mother and older brother Herzl also died in the Holocaust.\n\nBegin quickly made a name for himself as a fierce critic of the dominant Zionist leadership for being too cooperative with the British, and argued that the only way to save the Jews of Europe, who were facing extermination, was to compel the British to leave so that a Jewish state could be established. In 1942 he joined the Irgun (\"Etzel\"), an underground Zionist paramilitary organization which had split from the main Jewish military organization, the Haganah, in 1931. In 1944 Begin assumed the Irgun's leadership, determined to force the British government to remove its troops entirely from Palestine. The official Jewish leadership institutions in Palestine, the Jewish Agency and Vaad Leumi, backed up by their military arm, the Haganah, had refrained from directly challenging British authority. They were convinced that the British would establish a Jewish state after the war due to support for the Zionist cause among both the Conservative and Labour parties. Giving as reasons that the British had reneged on the promises given in the Balfour Declaration and that the White Paper of 1939 restricting Jewish immigration was an escalation of their pro-Arab policy, he decided to break with the official institutions and launch an armed rebellion against British rule in cooperation with Lehi, another breakaway Zionist group.\n\nBegin had studied the Irish War of Independence and the Indian independence movement, and, while planning the rebellion with Irgun commanders, devised a strategy of leverage he believed would force the British out. He proposed a series of guerrilla attacks that would humiliate the British and damage their prestige, which would force them to resort to repressive measures, which would in turn alienate the Yishuv. Begin banked on the international media being attracted to the action, which he referred to as turning Palestine into a \"glass house\", with the world looking in. This would draw international attention, and British repression would create global sympathy for the Irgun's cause, which in turn would translate into political pressure on Britain. Ultimately, the British would be forced to choose between continued repression or withdrawal, and Begin was certain that in the end, the British would leave. Furthermore, so as not to disturb the war effort against Germany, only British government and police targets would be attacked at first, while military targets would only be attacked once Germany had been defeated.\n\nOn February 1, 1944, the Irgun proclaimed a revolt. Twelve days later, it put its plan into action when Irgun teams bombed the empty offices of the British Mandate's Immigration Department in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, and Haifa. The Irgun next bombed the Income Tax Offices in those three cities, followed by a series of attacks on police stations in which two Irgun fighters and six policemen were killed. Meanwhile, Lehi joined the revolt with a series of shooting attacks on policemen.\n\nThroughout 1944, the Irgun and Lehi attacks intensified. These operations were financed by demanding money from Jewish merchants and engaging in insurance scams in the local diamond industry.\n\nIn 1944, after Lehi gunmen assassinated Lord Moyne, the British Resident Minister in the Middle East, the official Jewish authorities, fearing British retaliation, ordered the Haganah to undertake a campaign of collaboration with the British. Known as The Hunting Season, the campaign seriously crippled the Irgun for several months, while Lehi, having agreed to suspend the campaign, was spared. Begin, anxious to prevent a civil war, ordered his men not to retaliate or resist being taken captive, convinced that the Irgun could ride out the Season, and that the Jewish Agency would eventually side with the Irgun when it became apparent the British government had no intention of making concessions. Gradually, shamed at participating in what was viewed as a collaborationist campaign, the enthusiasm of the Haganah began to wane, and Begin's assumptions were proven correct. The Irgun's restraint also earned it much sympathy from the Yishuv, whereas it had been assumed before by many that it had placed its own political interests before those of the Yishuv.\n\nIn the summer of 1945, as it became clear that the British were not planning on establishing a Jewish state and would not allow significant Jewish immigration to Palestine, Jewish public opinion shifted decisively against the British, and the Jewish authorities sent feelers to the Irgun and Lehi to discuss an alliance. The end result was the Jewish Resistance Movement, a framework under which the Haganah, Irgun, and Lehi launched coordinated series of anti-British operations. For several months in 1945–46, the Irgun fought as part of the Jewish Resistance Movement. Following Operation Agatha, during which the British arrested many Jews, seized arms caches, and occupied the Jewish Agency building, from which many documents were removed, Begin ordered an attack on the British military and administrative headquarters at the King David Hotel following a request from the Haganah, although the Haganah's permission was later rescinded. The King David Hotel bombing resulted in the destruction of the building's southern wing, and 91 people, mostly British, Arabs, and Jews, were killed.\n\nThe fragile partnership collapsed following the bombing, partly because contrary to instructions, it was carried out during the busiest part of the day at the hotel. The Haganah, from then on, would rarely mount attacks against British forces and would focus mainly on the Aliyah Bet illegal immigration campaign, and while it occasionally took half-hearted measures against the Irgun, it never returned to full-scale collaboration with the British. The Irgun and Lehi continued waging a full-scale insurgency against the British, and together with the Haganah's illegal immigration campaign, this forced a large commitment of British forces to Palestine that was gradually sapping British financial resources. Three particular Irgun operations directly ordered by Begin: the Night of the Beatings, the Acre Prison break, and the Sergeants affair, were cited as particularly influencing the British to leave due to the great loss of British prestige and growing public opposition to Britain remaining in Palestine at home they generated. In September 1947, the British cabinet voted to leave Palestine, and in November of that year, the United Nations approved a resolution to partition the country between Arabs and Jews. The financial burden imposed on Britain by the Jewish insurgency, together with the tremendous public opposition to keeping troops in Palestine it generated among the British public was later cited by British officials as a major factor in Britain's decision to evacuate Palestine.\n\nIn December 1947, immediately following the UN partition vote, the 1947-48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine broke out between the Yishuv and Palestinian Arabs. The Irgun fought together with the Haganah and Lehi during that period. Notable operations in which they took part were the battles of Jaffa and the Jordanian siege on the Jewish Quarter in the Old City of Jerusalem. The Irgun's most controversial operation during this period, carried out alongside Lehi, was an assault on the Arab village of Deir Yassin in which more than a hundred villagers and four of the attackers were killed. The event later became known as the Deir Yassin massacre, though Irgun and Lehi sources would deny a massacre took place there. Begin also repeatedly threatened to declare independence if the Jewish Agency did not do so.\n\nThroughout the period of the rebellion against the British and the civil war against the Arabs, Begin lived openly under a series of assumed names, often while sporting a beard. Begin would not come out of hiding until April 1948, when the British, who still maintained nominal authority over Palestine, were almost totally gone. During the period of revolt, Begin was the most wanted man in Palestine, and MI5 placed a 'dead-or-alive' bounty of £10,000 on his head. Begin had been forced into hiding immediately prior to the declaration of revolt, when Aliza noticed that their house was being watched. He initially lived in a room in the Savoy Hotel, a small hotel in Tel Aviv whose owner was sympathetic to the Irgun's cause, and his wife and son were smuggled in to join him after two months. He decided to grow a beard and live openly under an assumed name rather than go completely into hiding. He was aided by the fact that the British authorities possessed only two photographs of his likeness, of which one, which they believed to be his military identity card, bore only a slight resemblance to him, according to Begin, and were fed misinformation by Yaakov Meridor that he had had plastic surgery, and were thus confused over his appearance. Due to the British police conducting searches in the hotel's vicinity, he relocated to a Yemenite neighborhood in Petah Tikva, and after a month, moved to the Hasidof neighborhood near Kfar Sirkin, where he pretended to be a lawyer named Yisrael Halperin. After the British searched the area but missed the street where his house was located, Begin and his family moved to a new home on a Tel Aviv side street, where he assumed the name Yisrael Sassover and masqueraded as a rabbi. Following the King David Hotel bombing, when the British searched the entire city of Tel Aviv, Begin evaded capture by hiding in a secret compartment in his home. In 1947, he moved to the heart of Tel Aviv and took the identity of Dr. Yonah Koenigshoffer, the name he found on an abandoned passport in a library.\n\nIn the years following the establishment of the State of Israel, the Irgun’s contribution to precipitating British withdrawal became a hotly contested debate as different factions vied for control over the emerging narrative of Israeli independence. Begin resented his being portrayed as a belligerent dissident.\n\nAfter the Israeli Declaration of Independence on 14 May 1948 and the start of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Irgun continued to fight alongside Haganah and Lehi. On 15 May 1948, Begin broadcast a speech on radio declaring that the Irgun was finally moving out of its underground status. On 1 June Begin signed an agreement with the provisional government headed by David Ben Gurion, where the Irgun agreed to formally disband and to integrate its force with the newly formed Israel Defense Forces (IDF), but was not truthful of the armaments aboard the \"Altalena\" as it was scheduled to arrive during the cease-fire ordered by the United Nations and therefore would have put the State of Israel in peril as Britain was adamant the partition of Jewish and Arab Palestine would not occur. This delivery was the smoking gun Britain would need to urge the UN to end the partition action.\n\nIntense negotiations between representatives of the provisional government (headed by Ben-Gurion) and the Irgun (headed by Begin) followed the departure of \"Altalena\" from France. Among the issues discussed were logistics of the ship's landing and distribution of the cargo between the military organizations. Whilst there was agreement on the anchoring place of the \"Altalena\", there were differences of opinion about the allocation of the cargo. Ben-Gurion agreed to Begin's initial request that 20% of the weapons be dispatched to the Irgun's Jerusalem Battalion, which was still fighting independently. His second request, however, that the remainder be transferred to the IDF to equip the newly incorporated Irgun battalions, was rejected by the Government representatives, who interpreted the request as a demand to reinforce an \"army within an army.\"\n\nThe \"Altalena\" reached Kfar Vitkin in the late afternoon of Sunday, June 20. Among the Irgun members waiting on the shore was Menachem Begin, who greeted the arrivals with great emotion. After the passengers had disembarked, members of the fishing village of Mikhmoret helped unload the cargo of military equipment. Concomitantly with the events at Kfar Vitkin, the government had convened in Tel Aviv for its weekly meeting. Ben-Gurion reported on the meetings which had preceded the arrival of the \"Altalena\", and was adamant in his demand that Begin surrender and hand over all of the weapons:\n\nWe must decide whether to hand over power to Begin or to order him to cease his separate activities. If he does not do so, we will open fire! Otherwise, we must decide to disperse our own army.\n\nThe debate ended in a resolution to empower the army to use force if necessary to overcome the Irgun and to confiscate the ship and its cargo. Implementation of this decision was assigned to the Alexandroni Brigade, commanded by Dan Even (Epstein), which the following day surrounded the Kfar Vitkin area. Dan Even issued the following ultimatum:\n\nTo: M. Begin<br>By special order from the Chief of the General Staff of the Israel Defense Forces, I am empowered to confiscate the weapons and military materials which have arrived on the Israeli coast in the area of my jurisdiction in the name of the Israel Government. I have been authorized to demand that you hand over the weapons to me for safekeeping and to inform you that you should establish contact with the supreme command. You are required to carry out this order immediately. If you do not agree to carry out this order, I shall use all the means at my disposal in order to implement the order and to requisition the weapons which have reached shore and transfer them from private possession into the possession of the Israel government. I wish to inform you that the entire area is surrounded by fully armed military units and armored cars, and all roads are blocked. I hold you fully responsible for any consequences in the event of your refusal to carry out this order. The immigrants – unarmed – will be permitted to travel to the camps in accordance with your arrangements. You have ten minutes to give me your answer.<br>D.E., Brigade Commander\n\nThe ultimatum was made, according to Even, \"in order not to give the Irgun commander time for lengthy considerations and to gain the advantage of surprise.\" Begin refused to respond to the ultimatum, and all attempts at mediation failed. Begin's failure to respond was a blow to Even's prestige, and a clash was now inevitable. Fighting ensued and there were a number of casualties. In order to prevent further bloodshed, the Kfar Vitkin settlers initiated negotiations between Yaakov Meridor (Begin's deputy) and Dan Even, which ended in a general ceasefire and the transfer of the weapons on shore to the local IDF commander.\nBegin had meanwhile boarded the \"Altalena\", which was headed for Tel Aviv where the Irgun had more supporters. Many Irgun members, who joined the IDF earlier that month, left their bases and concentrated on the Tel Aviv beach. A confrontation between them and the IDF units started. In response, Ben-Gurion ordered Yigael Yadin (acting Chief of Staff) to concentrate large forces on the Tel Aviv beach and to take the ship by force. Heavy guns were transferred to the area and at four in the afternoon, Ben-Gurion ordered the shelling of the \"Altalena\". One of the shells hit the ship, which began to burn. Yigal Allon, commander of the troops on the shore, later claimed only five or six shells were fired, as warning shots, and the ship was hit by accident.\n\nThere was danger that the fire would spread to the holds which contained explosives, and Captain Monroe Fein ordered all aboard to abandon ship. People jumped into the water, whilst their comrades on shore set out to meet them on rafts. Although Captain Fein flew the white flag of surrender, automatic fire continued to be directed at the unarmed survivors swimming in the water. Begin, who was on deck, agreed to leave the ship only after the last of the wounded had been evacuated. Sixteen Irgun fighters were killed in the confrontation with the army (all but three were veteran members and not newcomers in the ship); six were killed in the Kfar Vitkin area and ten on Tel Aviv beach. Three IDF soldiers were killed: two at Kfar Vitkin and one in Tel Aviv.\n\nAfter the shelling of the \"Altalena\", more than 200 Irgun fighters were arrested. Most of them were released several weeks later, with the exception of five senior commanders (Moshe Hason, Eliyahu Lankin, Yaakov Meridor, Bezalel Amitzur, and Hillel Kook), who were detained for more than two months, until August 27, 1948. Begin agreed the Irgun soldiers would be fully integrated with the IDF and not kept in separate units.\n\nAbout a year later, \"Altalena\" was refloated, towed 15 miles out to sea and sunk.\n\nIn August 1948, Begin and members of the Irgun High Command emerged from the underground and formed the right-wing political party Herut (\"Freedom\") party. The move countered the weakening attraction for the earlier revisionist party, Hatzohar, founded by his late mentor Ze'ev Jabotinsky. Revisionist 'purists' alleged nonetheless that Begin was out to steal Jabotinsky's mantle and ran against him with the old party. The Herut party can be seen as the forerunner of today's Likud.\n\nIn November 1948, Begin visited the US on a campaigning trip. During his visit, signed by Albert Einstein, Sidney Hook, Hannah Arendt, and other prominent Americans and several rabbis was published which described Begin's Herut party as \"terrorist, right-wing chauvinist organization in Palestine,\" closely akin in its organization, methods, political philosophy and social appeal to the Nazi and Fascist parties\" and accused his group (along with the smaller, militant, Stern Gang) of preaching \"racial superiority\" and having \"inaugurated a reign of terror in the Palestine Jewish community\".\n\nIn the first elections in 1949, Herut, with 11.5 percent of the vote, won 14 seats, while Hatzohar failed to break the threshold and disbanded shortly thereafter. This provided Begin with legitimacy as the leader of the Revisionist stream of Zionism. During the 1950s Begin was banned from entering the United Kingdom, as the British government regarded him as \"leader of the notorious terrorist organisation Irgun\"\n\nBetween 1948 and 1977, under Begin, Herut and the alliances it formed (Gahal in 1965 and Likud in 1973) formed the main opposition to the dominant Mapai and later the Alignment (the forerunners of today's Labor Party) in the Knesset; Herut adopted a radical nationalistic agenda committed to the irredentist idea of Greater Israel that usually included Jordan. During those years, Begin was systematically delegitimized by the ruling party, and was often personally derided by Ben-Gurion who refused to either speak to or refer to him by name. Ben-Gurion famously coined the phrase 'without Herut and Maki' (Maki was the communist party), referring to his refusal to consider them for coalition, effectively pushing both parties and their voters beyond the margins of political consensus.\n\nThe personal animosity between Ben-Gurion and Begin, going back to the hostilities over the Altalena Affair, underpinned the political dichotomy between Mapai and Herut. Begin was a keen critic of Mapai, accusing it of coercive Bolshevism and deep-rooted institutional corruption. Drawing on his training as a lawyer in Poland, he preferred wearing a formal suit and tie and evincing the dry demeanor of a legislator to the socialist informality of Mapai, as a means of accentuating their differences.\n\nOne of the fiercest confrontations between Begin and Ben-Gurion revolved around the Reparations Agreement between Israel and West Germany, signed in 1952. Begin vehemently opposed the agreement, claiming that it was tantamount to a pardon of Nazi crimes against the Jewish people. While the agreement was debated in the Knesset in January 1952, he led a demonstration in Jerusalem attended by some 15,000 people, and gave a passionate and dramatic speech in which he attacked the government and called for its violent overthrow. Referring to the Altalena Affair, Begin stated that \"when you fired at me with cannon, I gave the order; 'Don't [return fire]!' Today I will give the order, 'Do!'\" Incited by his speech, the crowd marched towards the Knesset (then at the Frumin Building on King George Street) and threw stones at the windows, and at police as they intervened. After five hours of rioting, police managed to suppress the riots using water cannons and tear gas. Hundreds were arrested, while some 200 rioters, 140 police officers, and several Knesset members were injured. Many held Begin personally responsible for the violence, and he was consequently barred from the Knesset for several months. His behavior was strongly condemned in mainstream public discourse, reinforcing his image as a provocateur. The vehemence of Revisionist opposition was deep; in March 1952, during the ongoing reparations negotiations, a parcel bomb addressed to Konrad Adenauer, the sitting West German Chancellor, was intercepted at a German post office. While being defused, the bomb exploded, killing one sapper and injuring two others. Five Israelis, all former members of Irgun, were later arrested in Paris for their involvement in the plot. Chancellor Adenauer decided to keep secret the involvement of Israeli opposition party members in the plot, thus avoiding Israeli embarrassment and a likely backlash. The five Irgun conspirators were later extradited from both France and Germany, without charge, and sent back to Israel. Forty years after the assassination attempt, Begin was implicated as the organizer of the assassination attempt in a memoir written by one of the conspirators, Elieser Sudit.\n\nBegin's impassioned rhetoric, laden with pathos and evocations of the Holocaust, appealed to many, but was deemed inflammatory and demagoguery by others.\n\nIn the following years, Begin failed to gain electoral momentum, and Herut remained far behind Labor with a total of 17 seats until 1961. In 1965, Herut and the Liberal Party united to form the Gahal party under Begin’s leadership, but failed again to win more seats in the election that year. In 1966, during Herut's party convention, he was challenged by the young Ehud Olmert, who called for his resignation. Begin announced that he would retire from party leadership, but soon reversed his decision when the crowd pleaded with him to stay. The day the Six-Day War started in June 1967, Gahal joined the national unity government under Prime Minister Levi Eshkol of the Alignment, resulting in Begin serving in the cabinet for the first time, as a Minister without Portfolio. Rafi also joined the unity government at that time, with Moshe Dayan becoming Defense Minister. Gahal's arrangement lasted until August 1970, when Begin and Gahal quit the government, then led by Golda Meir due to disagreements over the Rogers Plan and its \"in place\" cease-fire with Egypt along the Suez Canal, Other sources, including William B. Quandt, note that the Labor party, by formally accepting UN 242 in mid-1970, had accepted \"peace for withdrawal\" on all fronts, and because of this Begin had left the unity government. On 5 August, Begin explained before the Knesset why he was resigning from the cabinet. He said, \"As far as we are concerned, what do the words 'withdrawal from territories administered since 1967 by Israel' mean other than Judea and Samaria. Not all the territories; but by all opinion, most of them.\"\n\nIn 1973, Begin agreed to a plan by Ariel Sharon to form a larger bloc of opposition parties, made up from Gahal, the Free Centre, and other smaller groups. They came through with a tenuous alliance called the Likud (\"Consolidation\"). In the elections held later that year, two months after the Yom Kippur War, the Likud won a considerable share of the votes, though with 39 seats still remained in opposition.\n\nYet the aftermath of the Yom Kippur War saw ensuing public disenchantment with the Alignment. Voices of criticism about the government's misconduct of the war gave rise to growing public resentment. Personifying the antithesis to the Alignment's socialist ethos, Begin appealed to many Mizrahi Israelis, mostly first and second generation Jewish refugees from Arab countries, who felt they were continuously being treated by the establishment as second-class citizens. His open embrace of Judaism stood in stark contrast to the Alignment's secularism, which alienated Mizrahi voters and drew many of them to support Begin, becoming his burgeoning political base. In the years 1974–77 Yitzhak Rabin's government suffered from instability due to infighting within the labor party (Rabin and Shimon Peres) and the shift to the right by the National Religious Party, as well as numerous corruption scandals. All these weakened the labor camp and finally allowed Begin to capture the center stage of Israeli politics.\n\nOn 17 May 1977 the Likud, headed by Begin, won the Knesset elections by a landslide, becoming the biggest party in the Knesset. Popularly known as the \"Mahapakh\" (\"upheaval\"), the election results had seismic ramifications as for the first time in Israeli history a party other than the Alignment/Mapai was in a position to form a government, effectively ending the left's hitherto unrivalled domination over Israeli politics. Likud's electoral victory signified a fundamental restructuring of Israeli society in which the founding socialist Ashkenazi elite was being replaced by a coalition representing marginalized Mizrahi and Jewish-religious communities, promoting a socially conservative and economically liberal agenda.\nThe Likud campaign leading up to the election centered on Begin's personality. Demonized by the Alignment as totalitarian and extremist, his self-portrayal as a humble and pious leader struck a chord with many who felt abandoned by the ruling party's ideology. In the predominantly Jewish Mizrahi working class urban neighborhoods and peripheral towns, the Likud won overwhelming majorities, while disillusionment with the Alignment's corruption prompted many middle and upper class voters to support the newly founded centrist Democratic Movement for Change (\"Dash\") headed by Yigael Yadin. Dash won 15 seats out of 120, largely at the expense of the Alignment, which was led by Shimon Peres and had shrunk from 51 to 32 seats. Well aware of his momentous achievement and employing his trademark sense for drama, when speaking that night in the Likud headquarters Begin quoted from the Gettysburg Address and the Torah, referring to his victory as a 'turning point in the history of the Jewish people'.\n\nWith 43 seats, the Likud still required the support of other parties in order to reach a parliamentary majority that would enable it to form a government under Israel's proportionate representation parliamentary system. Though able to form a narrow coalition with smaller Jewish religious and ultra-orthodox parties, Begin also sought support from centrist elements in the Knesset to provide his government with greater public legitimacy. He controversially offered the foreign affairs portfolio to Moshe Dayan, a former IDF Chief of Staff and Defense Minister, and a prominent Alignment politician identified with the old establishment. Begin was sworn in as Prime Minister of Israel on 20 June 1977. Dash eventually joined his government several months later, thus providing it with the broad support of almost two thirds of the Knesset. While Prime Minister, Yehuda Avner served as Begin's speech writer.\n\nAs Prime Minister, Begin presided over various reforms in the domestic field. Tuition fees for secondary education were eliminated and compulsory education was extended to the tenth grade, while new social programmes were introduced such as long-term care insurance and a national income support system. A ban on color television that had been imposed to enforce social equality was abolished, and the minimum age for a driver's license was lowered to 17. Another government program initiated, named \"Project Renewal\", was aimed at rehabilitating impoverished towns and neighborhoods. Inhabited mainly by Sephardi and Mizrahi immigrants and their descendants, these areas were characterized by slum conditions and substandard housing. The project was a joint effort between the Israeli government, Jewish Agency, and Jewish communities worldwide, which provided much of the funding for it. The program was directly administered through the Prime Minister's Office until 1981, when Begin's government transferred responsibility to the Ministry of Housing.\n\nExtensive work was done to eliminate slum conditions in these areas, and to improve the general quality of life. Physical infrastructure such as roads, sewage and drainage systems, and street lighting was upgraded, tens of thousands of housing units were renovated and expanded, and hundreds of public service facilities such as community centers, early childhood development centers, day centers for the elderly, playgrounds, and educational and healthcare facilities were built or renovated. By 1983, the program had touched over 450,000 people in 82 towns and neighborhoods. The program continued past Begin's premiership, and switched towards other vulnerable populations. Project Renewal is still being implemented today for at-risk communities in Israel.\n\nBegin's economic policies sought to liberalize Israel's socialist economy towards a more free-market approach, and he appointed Simha Erlich as Finance Minister. Erlich unveiled a new economic policy that became known as the \"economic transformation\". Under the new plan, the exchange rate would from then on be determined by market forces rather than the government, subsidies for many consumer products were cancelled, foreign exchange controls were eased, the VAT tax was raised while the travel tax was cancelled, and customs duties were lowered to encourage imports of more products. The plan generated some improvement; cheap and high-quality imported products began to fill consumer shelves, the business sector benefited greatly, and the stock market recorded rising share prices. However, the program did not improve the lives of the Israeli people as Begin had hoped. The combination of the increased VAT, the end of subsidies, and a rise in the U.S. dollar exchange rate set off a wave of inflation and price increases. In particular, the fact that government spending was not significantly reduced in tandem with the liberalization program triggered a massive bout of inflation. On July 17, 1978, the Israeli cabinet met to discuss rising inflation, but Begin, declaring that \"you cannot manage economics over the housewife's back\", halted all proposals. In the end, the government decided not to take any actions and allow inflation to ride its course. Begin and his other ministers did not internalize the full meaning of the liberalization plan. As a result, he blocked attempts by Erlich to lower government spending and government plans to privatize public-sector enterprises out of fear of harming the weaker sectors of society, allowing the privatization of only eighteen government companies during his six-year tenure. In 1983, shortly before Begin's resignation, a major financial crisis hit Israel after the stocks of the country's four largest banks collapsed and were subsequently nationalized by the state. Inflation would continue rapidly rising past Begin's tenure, and was only brought under control after the 1985 Israel Economic Stabilization Plan, which among other things greatly curbed government spending, was introduced. The years of rampant inflation devastated the economic power of the powerful Histadrut labor federation and the kibbutzim, which would help Israel's approach towards a free-market economy.\n\nBegin's government has been credited with starting a trend that would move Israel towards a capitalist economy that would see the rise of a consumer culture and a pursuit of wealth and higher living standards, replacing a culture that scorned capitalism and valued social, as well as government restrictions to enforce equality.\n\nIn terms of social justice, however, the legacy of the Begin Government was arguably a questionable one. In 1980, the state Social Security Institute estimated that from 1977 to 1980 the number of babies born in poverty doubled, while there had been a 300% increase in the number of families with four to five children below the poverty line. Additionally, the number of families with more than five children below the poverty line went up by 400,% while child poverty estimates suggested that from 1977 to 1981 the number of children living below the poverty line had risen from 3.8% to 8.4%, while officials at the National Institute of Insurance estimated that the incidence of poverty had doubled during Begin’s five years in office.\n\nIn 1978 Begin, aided by Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan and Defense Minister Ezer Weizman, came to Washington and Camp David to negotiate the Camp David Accords, leading to the 1979 Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty with Egyptian President, Anwar Sadat. Before going to Washington to meet President Carter, Begin visited Rabbi Menachem M. Schneerson for his advice. Under the terms of the treaty, brokered by US President, Jimmy Carter, Israel was to hand over the Sinai Peninsula in its entirety to Egypt. The peace treaty with Egypt was a watershed moment in Middle Eastern history, as it was the first time an Arab state recognized Israel's legitimacy whereas Israel effectively accepted the land for peace principle as blueprint for resolving the Arab–Israeli conflict. Given Egypt’s prominent position within the Arab World, especially as Israel's biggest and most powerful enemy, the treaty had far reaching strategic and geopolitical implications.\n\nAlmost overnight, Begin's public image of an irresponsible nationalist radical was transformed into that of a statesman of historic proportions. This image was reinforced by international recognition which culminated with him being awarded, together with Sadat, the Nobel Peace Prize in 1978.\n\nYet while establishing Begin as a leader with broad public appeal, the peace treaty with Egypt was met with fierce criticism within his own Likud party. His devout followers found it difficult to reconcile Begin's history as a keen promoter of the Greater Israel agenda with his willingness to relinquish occupied territory. Agreeing to the removal of Israeli settlements from the Sinai was perceived by many as a clear departure from Likud's Revisionist ideology. Several prominent Likud members, most notably Yitzhak Shamir, objected to the treaty and abstained when it was ratified with an overwhelming majority in the Knesset, achieved only thanks to support from the opposition. A small group of hardliners within Likud, associated with Gush Emunim Jewish settlement movement, eventually decided to split and form the Tehiya party in 1979. They led the \"Movement for Stopping the Withdrawal from Sinai\", violently clashing with IDF soldiers during the forceful eviction of Yamit settlement in April 1982. Despite the traumatic scenes from Yamit, political support for the treaty did not diminish and the Sinai was handed over to Egypt in 1982.\nBegin was less resolute in implementing the section of the Camp David Accord calling for Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. He appointed Agriculture Minister Ariel Sharon to implement a large scale expansion of Jewish settlements in the Israeli-occupied territories, a policy intended to make future territorial concessions in these areas effectively impossible. Begin refocused Israeli settlement strategy from populating peripheral areas in accordance with the Allon Plan, to building Jewish settlements in areas of Biblical and historic significance. When the settlement of Elon Moreh was established on the outskirts of Nablus in 1979, following years of campaigning by Gush Emunim, Begin declared that there are \"many more Elon Morehs to come.\" During his term dozens of new settlements were built, and Jewish population in the West Bank and Gaza more than quadrupled.\n\nBegin took Saddam Hussein's anti-Zionist threats seriously and therefore took aim at Iraq, which was building a nuclear reactor named Osirak or Tammuz 1 with French and Italian assistance. When Begin took office, preparations were intensified. Begin authorized the construction of a full-scale model of the Iraqi reactor which Israeli pilots could practice bombing. Israel attempted to negotiate with France and Italy to cut off assistance and with the United States to obtain assurances that the program would be halted. The negotiations failed. Begin considered the diplomatic option fruitless, and worried that prolonging the attack would lead to a fatal inability to act in response to the perceived threat.\n\nThe decision to attack was hotly contested within Begin's government. However, in October 1980, the Mossad informed Begin that the reactor would be fueled and operational by June 1981. This assessment was aided by reconnaissance photos supplied by the United States, and the Israeli cabinet voted to approve an attack. In June 1981, Begin ordered the destruction of the reactor. On 7 June 1981, the Israeli Air Force destroyed the reactor in a successful long-range operation called \"Operation Opera\". Soon after, the government and Begin expounded on what came to be known as the Begin Doctrine: \"On no account shall we permit an enemy to develop weapons of mass destruction (WMD) against the people of Israel.\" Begin explicitly stated the strike was not an anomaly, but instead called the event “a precedent for every future government in Israel”; it remains a feature of Israeli security planning policy. Many foreign governments, including the United States, condemned the operation, and the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed Resolution 487 condemning it. The Israeli left-wing opposition criticized it also at the time, but mainly for its timing relative to domestic elections only three weeks later, when Likud was reelected. The new government annexed the Golan Heights and banned the national airline from flying on Shabbat.\n\nOn 6 June 1982, Begin’s government authorized the Israel Defense Forces invasion of Lebanon, in response to the attempted assassination of the Israeli ambassador to the United Kingdom, Shlomo Argov. The objective of Operation \"Peace for Galilee\" was to force the PLO out of rocket range of Israel's northern border. Begin was hoping for a short and limited Israeli involvement that would destroy the PLO’s political and military infrastructure in southern Lebanon, effectively reshaping the balance of Lebanese power in favor of the Christian Militias who were allied with Israel. Nevertheless, fighting soon escalated into war with Palestinian and Lebanese militias, as well as the Syrian military, and the IDF progressed as far as Beirut, well beyond the 40 km limit initially authorized by the government. Israeli forces were successful in driving the PLO out of Lebanon and forcing its leadership to relocate to Tunisia, but the war ultimately failed to achieve its political goals of bringing security to Israel’s northern border and creating stability in Lebanon. Begin referred to the invasion as an inevitable act of survival, often comparing Yasser Arafat to Hitler.\n\nPublic dissatisfaction reached a peak in September 1982, after the Sabra and Shatila Massacre. Hundreds of thousands gathered in Tel Aviv in what was one of the biggest public demonstrations in Israeli history. The Kahan Commission, appointed to investigate the events, issued its report on February 9, 1983, found the government indirectly responsible for the massacre but that Defense Minister Ariel Sharon \"bears personal responsibility.\" The commission recommended that Sharon be removed from office and never serve in any future Israeli government. Initially, Sharon attempted to remain in office and Begin refused to fire him. But Sharon resigned as Defense Minister after the death of Emil Grunzweig, who was killed by a grenade tossed into a crowd of demonstrators leaving a Peace Now organized march, which also injured ten others, including the son of an Israeli cabinet minister. Sharon remained in the cabinet as a minister without portfolio. Public pressure on Begin to resign increased.\n\nBegin’s disoriented appearance on national television while visiting the Beaufort battle site raised concerns that he was being misinformed about the war’s progress. Asking Sharon whether PLO fighters had ‘machine guns’, Begin seemed out of touch with the nature and scale of the military campaign he had authorized. Almost a decade later, Haaretz reporter Uzi Benziman published a series of articles accusing Sharon of intentionally deceiving Begin about the operation’s initial objectives, and continuously misleading him as the war progressed. Sharon sued both the newspaper and Benziman for libel in 1991. The trial lasted 11 years, with one of the highlights being the deposition of Begin's son, Benny, in favor of the defendants. Sharon lost the case.\n\nArgentine journalist Hernan Dobry has alleged that during this time Begin also ordered an airlift of weapons to Argentina during the Falklands War, because he still hated the British decades after fighting them in the 1940s, and wanted to avenge the hanging of his friend Dov Gruner. However the weapons arrived after the war had already ended.\n\nAfter Begin's wife Aliza died in November 1982 while he was away on an official visit to Washington DC, he was thrown into a deep depression. Begin also became disappointed by the war in Lebanon because he had hoped to sign a peace treaty with the government President Bashir Gemayel, who was assassinated. Instead, there were mounting Israeli casualties, and protesters outside his office maintained a constant vigil with a sign showing the number of Israeli soldiers killed in Lebanon, which was constantly updated. Begin also continued to be plagued by the ill health and occasional hospitalizations that he had endured for years. In August 1983, he resigned, telling his colleagues that \"I cannot go on any longer\", and handed over the reins of the office of Prime Minister to his old comrade-in-arms Yitzhak Shamir, who had been the leader of the Lehi resistance to the British.\n\nBegin subsequently retired to an apartment overlooking the Jerusalem Forest and spent the rest of his life in seclusion. He would rarely leave his apartment, and then usually to visit his wife's grave-site to say the traditional Kaddish prayer for the departed. His seclusion was watched over by his children and his lifetime personal secretary Yechiel Kadishai, who monitored all official requests for meetings. Begin would meet almost no one other than close friends or family. After a year, he changed his telephone number due to journalists constantly calling him. He was cared for by his daughter Leah and a housekeeper. According to Kadishai, Begin spent most of his days reading and watching movies, and would start and finish a book almost every day. He also kept up with world events by continuing his lifelong habit of listening to the BBC every morning, which had begun during his underground days, and maintaining a subscription to several newspapers. Begin retained some political influence in the Likud party, which he used to influence it behind the scenes.\n\nOn 3 March 1992, Begin suffered a severe heart attack in his apartment, and was rushed to Ichilov Hospital, where he was put in the intensive care unit. Begin arrived there unconscious and paralyzed on the left side of his body. His condition slightly improved following treatment, and he regained consciousness after 20 hours. For the next six days, Begin remained in serious condition. Begin was too frail to overcome the effects of the heart attack, and his condition began to rapidly deteriorate on 9 March at about 3:15 AM. An emergency team of doctors and nurses attempted to resuscitate his failing heart. His children were notified of his condition and immediately rushed to his side. Begin died at 3:30 AM. His death was announced an hour and a half later. Shortly before 6:00 AM, the hospital rabbi arrived at his bedside to say the Kaddish prayer.\n\nBegin's funeral took place in Jerusalem that afternoon. His coffin was carried four kilometers from the Sanhedria Funeral Parlor to Mount of Olives in a funeral procession attended by thousands of people. In accordance with his wishes, Begin was given a simple Jewish burial ceremony and buried on the Mount of Olives in the Jewish Cemetery there. He had asked to be buried there instead of Mount Herzl, where most Israeli leaders are laid to rest, because he wanted to be buried beside his wife Aliza, as well as Meir Feinstein of Irgun and Moshe Barazani of Lehi, who committed suicide in jail while awaiting execution by the British. An estimated 75,000 mourners were present at the funeral. Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, President Chaim Herzog, all cabinet ministers present in Israel, Supreme Court justices, Knesset members from most parties and a number of foreign ambassadors attended the funeral. Former members of the Irgun High Command served as pallbearers.\n\nA slightly fictionalized Menachem Begin appeared in the first edition of \"Land of Black Gold\", but was removed from subsequent editions. He appears in the film \"Waltz with Bashir\", the techno-thriller novel \"The Fifth Horseman\" by Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre, and the science fiction novel \"Worldwar: Volume 4: \" by Harry Turtledove.\n\nBegin was played by David Opatoshu in the 1977 TV film \"Raid on Entebbe\" and by Barry Morse in the 1983 miniseries \"Sadat\".\n\nChris Claremont, longtime writer of the \"X-Men\" comic book, has said that Begin reminds him of the character Magneto.\n\nIn \"The Last Temptation of Homer\", Bart Simpson is prescribed square, black-rimmed eyeglasses for his lazy eye, and the doctor tries to comfort him by saying that \"Menachem Begin wore a pair just like them.\"\n\nA stage play, \"Mr. Begin\", written by Gabriel Emanuel and starring actor Dani Shteg, opened at the Menahem Begin Heritage Center in Jerusalem in July, 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1235197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1235197", "title": "Menominee", "text": "Menominee\n\nThe Menominee (; also spelled Menomini, derived from the Ojibwe language word for \"Wild Rice People\"; known as Mamaceqtaw, \"the people\", in the Menominee language) are a federally recognized nation of Native Americans, with a reservation in Wisconsin. Their historic territory originally included an estimated in present-day Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The tribe currently has about 8,700 members.\n\nThe tribe was terminated in the 1960s under policy of the time which stressed assimilation. During that period, they brought what has become a landmark case in Indian law to the United States Supreme Court, in \"Menominee Tribe v. United States\" (1968), to protect their treaty hunting and fishing rights. The Wisconsin Supreme Court and the United States Court of Claims had drawn opposing conclusions about the effect of the termination on Menominee hunting and fishing rights on their former reservation land. The U.S. Supreme Court determined that the tribe had not lost traditional hunting and fishing rights as a result of termination, as Congress had not clearly ended these in its legislation.\n\nThe tribe regained federal recognition in 1973 in an act of Congress, and re-established its reservation in 1975. They operate under a written constitution establishing an elected government. Their first government under it took over tribal government and administration from the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) in 1979.\n\nThe Menominee are part of the Algonquian language family of North America, made up several tribes now located around the Great Lakes and many other tribes based along the Atlantic coast. They are one of the historical tribes of present-day upper Michigan and Wisconsin; they occupied a territory of about in the period of European colonization. They are believed to have been well-settled in that territory for more than 1,000 years. By some accounts, they are descended from the Old Copper Culture people and other indigenous peoples who had been in this area for 10,000 years.\n\nMenominee oral history states that they have always been here. Their reservation is located 60 miles west of the site of their Creation, according to their tradition. They arose where the Menominee River enters Green Bay of Lake Michigan, where the city of Marinette, Wisconsin has since developed.\n\nTheir name for themselves is \"Mamaceqtaw\", meaning \"the people\". The name \"Menominee\" is not their autonym. It was adopted by Europeans from the Ojibwe people, another Algonquian tribe whom they encountered first as they moved west and who told them of the Menominee. The Ojibwe name for the tribe was \"manoominii\", meaning \"wild rice people\", as they cultivated wild rice as one of their most important food staples.\n\nHistorically, the Menominee were known to be a peaceful, friendly and welcoming nation, who had a reputation for getting along with other tribes. When the Oneota culture arose in southern Wisconsin between AD 800 and 900, the Menominee shared the forests and waters with them.\n\nThe Menominee are a Northeastern Woodlands tribe. They were initially encountered by European explorers in Wisconsin in the mid-17th century during the colonial era, and had extended interaction with them during later periods in North America. During this period they lived in numerous villages which the French visited for fur trading. The anthropologist James Mooney in 1928 estimated that the tribe's number in 1650 was 3,000 persons.\n\nThe early French explorers and traders referred to the people as \"folles avoines\" (wild oats), referring to the wild rice which they cultivated and gathered as one of their staple foods. The Menominee have traditionally subsisted on a wide variety of plants and animals, with wild rice and sturgeon being two of the most important. Wild rice has a special importance to the tribe as their staple grain, while the sturgeon has a mythological importance and is often referred to as the \"father\" of the Menominee. Feasts are still held annually at which each of these is served.\nMenominee customs are quite similar to those of the Chippewa (Ojibwa), another Algonquian people. Their language has a closer affinity to those of the Fox and Kickapoo tribes. All four spoke Anishinaabe languages, part of the Algonquian family.\n\nThe five principal Menominee clans are the Bear, the Eagle, the Wolf, the Crane, and the Moose. Each has traditional responsibilities within the tribe. With a patrilineal kinship system, traditional Menominee believe that children derive their social status from their fathers, and are born \"into\" their father's clan. Members of the same clan are considered relatives, so must choose marriage partners from outside their clan. Ethnologist James Mooney wrote an article on the Menominee which appeared in \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" (1913), incorrectly reporting that their descent and inheritance proceeds through the female line. Such as a matrilineal kinship system is common among many other Native American peoples, including other Algonquian tribes.\n\nMenominee mythology is rich with ethical meaning. It has many elements in common with the sacred literature and cultures of other Native American peoples.\n\nTraditional Menominee believe that the Earth forms a partition between the upper and lower worlds. The upper world represents good and the lower world represents evil. These two worlds are divided into several layers, the furthest being the most powerful. The Sun is at the highest level in the upper world, followed by the Thunderbird and the Morning Star, the Golden Eagles (symbols of war) and other birds, led by the Bald Eagle. The first level below the earth in the lower world is occupied by the Horned Serpent. The succeeding lower levels are the home of the White Deer, who helped create the Medicine Dance. The next level is that of the Underwater Panther. The lowest level is ruled by the Great White Bear.\n\nTraditional Menominee use dreaming as a way of connecting with a guardian spirit in order to gain power. During the rite of passage at puberty, both boys and girls fast for days, living in a small isolated wigwam. The youths meet individually with Elders for interpretation of their dreams. The Elders inform the youths what responsibilities they will take on following their rite of passage.\n\n\"Allium tricoccum\" is consumed as part of the traditional diet of the Menominee. They string the dried, boiled, sliced potatoes of Sagittaria cuneata together for winter use. Uvularia grandiflora is used for swellings. Pseudognaphalium obtusifolium, ssp obtusifolium also is used medicinally. Please see that article for full information. Taenidia integerrima is taken as an infusion of root for pulmonary troubles, and as chew, the steeped root, for 'bronchial affections', and use it as a seasoner for other remedies because of the good smell.\n\nThe tribe originally occupied a large territory of extending from Wisconsin to the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Historic references include one by Father Frederic Baraga, a missionary priest in Michigan, who in his 1878 dictionary wrote:\n\n\"Mishinimakinago;\" pl.\"-g.\"—This name is given to some strange Indians (according to the sayings of the Otchipwes [Ojibwe]), who are rowing through the woods, and who are sometimes heard shooting, but never seen. And from this word, the name of the village of \"Mackinac\", or \"Michillimackinac\", is derived.\n\n\"Maehkaenah\" is the Menominee word for turtle. In his \"The Indian Tribes of North America\" (1952), John Reed Swanton recorded under the \"Wisconsin\" section: \"Menominee,\" a band named \"Misi'nimäk Kimiko Wini'niwuk, 'Michilimackinac People,' near the old fort at Mackinac, Mich.\" Michillimackinac is also spelled as Mishinimakinago, Mǐshǐma‛kǐnung, Mi-shi-ne-macki naw-go, Missilimakinak, Teiodondoraghie.\n\nThe Menominee are descendants of the Late Woodland Indians who inhabited the lands once occupied by Hopewell Indians, the earliest human inhabitants of the Lake Michigan region. As the Hopewell culture declined, circa 800 A.D., the Lake Michigan region eventually became home to Late Woodland Indians.\n\nEarly fur traders, \"coureur-de-bois,\" and explorers from France encountered their descendants: the Menominee, Chippewa (Ojibwa), Ottawa, Potawatomi, Sauk, Fox, Winnebago, and Miami. It is believed that the French explorer Jean Nicolet was the first non-Native American to reach Lake Michigan in 1634 or 1638.\n\nIn 1634, the Menominee and Ho-Chunk people (along with a band of Potawatomi who had recently moved into Wisconsin) witnessed the French explorer Jean Nicolet's approach and landing. Red Banks, near the present-day city of Green Bay, Wisconsin, later developed in this area. Nicolet, looking for a Northwest Passage to China, hoped to find and impress the Chinese. As the canoe approached the shore, Nicolet put on a silk Chinese ceremonial robe, stood up in the middle of the canoe and shot off two pistols.\n\nFor at least forty years in the 20th century, this event was presented in a biased fashion to elementary school students studying Wisconsin history. The Native people were said to fear \"the light-skinned man who could make thunder.\" John Boatman has said it was more likely the native people feared \"for\" the light-skinned man, as he had demonstrated questionable mental faculties. Anyone with local knowledge would know better than to stand up in a canoe on the choppy waters of Green Bay.\n\nPierre François Xavier de Charlevoix (1682-1761), a French Catholic clergyman, professor, historian, author and explorer, kept a detailed journal of his travels through Wisconsin and Louisiana. In 1721 he came upon the Menominee, whom he referred to as \"Malhomines\" (\"peuples d'avoines\" or (Wild Oat Indians), which the French had adapted from an Ojibwe term:\n\nAfter we had advanced five or six leagues, we found ourselves abreast of a little island, which lies near the western side of the bay, and which concealed from our view, the mouth of a river, on which stands the village of the Malhomines Indians, called by our French \"peuples d'avoines\" or Wild Oat Indians, probably from their living chiefly on this sort of grain. The whole nation consists only of this village, and that too not very numerous. 'Tis really great pity, they being the finest and handsomest men in all Canada. They are even of a larger stature than the Potawatomi. I have been assured that they had the same original and nearly the same languages with the Noquets, and the Indians at the Falls.\n\nInitially neutral during the War of 1812, the Menominee later became allied with the British and Canadians, whom they helped defeat American forces trying to recapture Fort Mackinac in the Battle of Mackinac Island. During the ensuing decades, the Menominee were pressured by encroachment of new European-American settlers in the area. Settlers first arrived in Michigan, where lumbering on the Upper Peninsula and resource extraction attracted workers. By mid-century, encroachment by new settlers was increasing. In the 1820s, the Menominee were approached by representatives of the Christianized Stockbridge-Munsee Indians from New York to share or cede some of their land for their use.\n\nThe Menominee gradually sold much of their lands in Michigan and Wisconsin to the U.S. government through seven treaties from 1821 to 1848, first ceding their lands in Michigan. The US government wanted to move them to the far west in the period when Wisconsin was organizing for statehood, to extinguish all Native American land claims. Chief Oshkosh went to look at the proposed site on the Crow River and rejected the offered land, saying their current land was better for hunting and game. The Menominee retained lands near the Wolf River in what became their current reservation. The tribe originated in the Wisconsin and are living in their traditional homelands.\n\nThe Menominee Indian Reservation is located in northeastern Wisconsin. For the most part, it is conterminous with Menominee County and the town of Menominee, which were established after termination of the tribe in 1961 under contemporary federal policy whose goal was assimilation. The tribe regained its federally recognized status and reservation in 1975.\n\nThe reservation was created in a treaty with the United States signed on May 12, 1854 in which the Menominee relinquished all claims to the lands held by them under previous treaties, and were assigned on the Wolf River in present-day Wisconsin. An additional treaty, which they signed on February 11, 1856, carved out the southwestern corner of this area to create a separate reservation for the Stockbridge and Lenape (Munsee) tribes, who had reached the area as refugees from New York state. The latter two tribes have the federally recognized joint Stockbridge-Munsee Community.\n\nAfter the tribe had regained federal recognition in 1973, it essentially restored the reservation to its historic boundaries in 1975. Many small pockets of territory within the county (and its geographically equivalent town) are not considered as part of the reservation. These amount to 1.14% of the county's area, so the reservation is essentially 98.86% of the county's area. The largest of these pockets is in the western part of the community of Keshena, Wisconsin. The reservation includes a plot of off-reservation trust land of in Winnebago County, Wisconsin to the south, west of the city of Oshkosh. The reservation's total land area is , while Menominee County's land area is .\n\nThe small non-reservation parts of the county are more densely populated than the reservation, holding 1,337 (29.3%) of the county's 4,562 total population, as opposed to the reservation's 3,225 (70.7%) population, as of the 2000 census.\n\nThe most populous communities are Legend Lake and Keshena. Since the late 20th century, the members of the reservation have operated a number of gambling facilities in these communities as a source of revenue. They speak English as well as their traditional Menominee language, one of the Algonquian languages. Current population of the tribe is about 8,700.\n\n\nThe Menominee have traditionally practiced logging in a sustainable manner. In 1905, a tornado swept through the reservation, downing a massive amount of timber. Because the Menominee-owned sawmills could not harvest all the downed timber before it decomposed, the United States Forest Service became involved in managing their forest. Despite the desire of the tribe and Senator Robert M. La Follette, Sr. for sustainable yield policy, the Forest Service conducted clear-cutting on reservation lands until 1926, cutting 70 percent of the salable timber.\n\nThe Department of the Interior regained control of the territory, as it holds the reservation in trust for the Menominee. During the next dozen years, it reduced the cutting of salable timber to 30 percent, which allowed the forest to regenerate. In 1934, the Menominee filed suit in the United States Court of Claims against the Forest Service, saying that its policy had heavily damaged their resource. The court agreed and settled the claim finally in 1952, awarding the Menominee $8.5 million.\n\nThe Menominee were among the Native Americans who participated as soldiers in World War II with other United States citizens.\n\nDuring the 1950s, federal Indian policy envisioned termination of the \"special relationship\" between the United States government and those tribes considered \"ready for assimilation\" to mainstream culture. The Menominee were identified for termination, which would end their status as a sovereign nation. At the time, the Klamath people in Oregon were the only other tribal group identified for termination. The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) believed the Menominee were sufficiently economically self-reliant on their timber industry to be successful independent of federal assistance and oversight. Before termination, they were one of the wealthiest American Indian tribes.\n\nIn 1954, Congress passed a law which phased out the Menominee reservation, effectively terminating its tribal status on April 30, 1961. Commonly held tribal property was transferred to a corporation, Menominee Enterprises, Inc. (MEI). It had a complicated structure and two trusts, one of which, First Wisconsin Trust Company, was appointed by the BIA. First Wisconsin Trust Company always voted its shares as a block, and essentially could control the management operations of MEI.\n\nAt the request of the Menominee, the state organized the former reservation as a new county, so they could maintain some coherence. The tribe was expected to provide county government functions but it became a colony of the state.\n\nThe change resulted in diminished standards of living for the members of the tribe; officials had to close the hospital and some schools in order to cover costs of the conversion: to provide their own services or contract for them as a county. Menominee County was the poorest and least populated Wisconsin county during this time, and termination adversely affected the region. Tribal crafts and produce alone could not sustain the community. As the tax base lacked industry, the Menominee could not fund basic services. MEI funds, which totaled $10 million in 1954, dwindled to $300,000 by 1964. Struggling to manage financially, the white-dominated MEI proposed in 1967 to raise money by selling off former tribal lands to non-Native Americans, which resulted in a fierce backlash among the Menominee.\n\nIt was a period of Indian activism, and community members began an organizing campaign to regain political sovereignty as the Menominee Tribe. Activists included Ada Deer, an organizer who would later become an advocate for Native Americans at the federal level as Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs (1993–1997). In 1970 the activists formed a group called the Determination of Rights and Unity for Menominee Stockholders (DRUMS). They blocked the proposed sale of tribal land by MEI to non-Indian developers, and successfully gained control of the MEI board of directors. They also persuaded Congress to restore their status as a federally recognized sovereign tribe by legislation.\n\nAt the same time, President Richard Nixon encouraged a federal policy to increase self-government among Indian tribes, in addition to increasing education opportunities and religious protection. He signed the bill for federal recognition of the Menominee Tribe of Wisconsin on December 22, 1973. The sovereign tribe started the work of reorganizing the reservation, which they re-established in 1975. Tribal members wrote and ratified a tribal constitution in 1976, and elected a new tribal government, which took over from BIA officials in 1979.\n\nDuring the period of termination, when the Menominee individually were subject to state law, in 1963 three members of the tribe were charged with violating Wisconsin's hunting and fishing laws on what had formerly been their reservation land for more than 100 years. The tribal members were acquitted. When the state appealed the decision, the Wisconsin Supreme Court held that the Menominee tribe no longer had hunting and fishing rights due to the termination act of Congress in 1954.\n\nDue to the state court's ruling, the tribe sued the United States for compensation for the value of the hunting and fishing rights in the U.S. Court of Claims, in \"Menominee Tribe v. United States\" (1968). The Court ruled that tribal members still had hunting and fishing rights, and that Congress had not abrogated those rights. The opposite rulings by the state and federal courts brought the issue to the United States Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1968 the Supreme Court held that the tribe retained its hunting and fishing rights under the treaties involved, and the rights were not lost after federal recognition was ended by the Menominee Termination Act, as Congress had not clearly removed those rights in its legislation. This has been a landmark case in Indian law, helping preserve Native American hunting and fishing rights.\n\nThe tribe operates according to a written constitution. It elects a tribal council and president.\n\nThe Menominee developed the College of Menominee Nation in 1993 and it was accredited in 1998. It includes a Sustainable Development Institute. Its goal is education to promote their ethic for living in balance on the land. It is one of a number of tribal colleges and universities that have been developed since the early 1970s, and one of two in Wisconsin.\n\nThe nation has a notable forestry resource and ably manages a timber program. In an 1870 assessment of their lands, which totaled roughly , they counted 1.3 billion standing board feet of timber. Today that has increased to 1.7 billion board feet. In the intervening years, they have harvested more than 2.25 billion board feet.\n\nSince June 5, 1987, the tribe has owned and operated a Las Vegas-style gaming casino, associated with bingo games and a hotel. The complex provides employment to numerous Menominee; approximately 79 percent of the Menominee Casino-Bingo-Hotel's 500 employees are ethnic Menominee or are spouses of Menominee.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7234998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7234998", "title": "Mohammed Bah Abba", "text": "Mohammed Bah Abba\n\nMohamed Bah Abba (1964–2010) is a muslim teacher from northern Nigeria who developed the pot-in-pot refrigerator in the 1990s. This refrigerator is extremely simple and does not require power, making it suitable for use in desert environments without easy access to electricity or repairs. It consists of a small earthenware pot placed inside a larger one, and the space between the two filled with moist sand. The inner pot is filled with whatever is desired to be cooled (fruit, vegetables, drinks) and covered with a wet cloth. The evaporating water draws heat from the inside through the porous outer pot, cooling the interior.\n\nAbba hails from a family of potmakers and tapped into the large underemployed local workforce for the project. Local pot-makers he hired produced the first batch of 5,000 pot-in-pot refrigerators. He received the Rolex Award for Enterprise in 2001 and used his $75,000 award to make the invention available throughout Nigeria. Abba devised an educational campaign tailored to village life and the illiterate population featuring a video-recorded play by local actors to dramatise the benefits of the desert refrigerator. The pots sell at 40 US cents a pair.\n\n"}
{"id": "51984617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51984617", "title": "Oreoluwa Lesi", "text": "Oreoluwa Lesi\n\nOreoluwa Lesi is a Nigerian entrepreneur and UK-trained economist and IT expert. She is the founder and executive director of Women's Technology Empowerment Centre (W.TEC), a non-profit organisation that empowers women and girls socially and economically through education in Information technology. W.TEC was established in the year 2008. She is a fellow of Ashoka and a recipient of ABIE Award Winners, Change Agent.\n\nLesi's early years were spent in Nigeria. With an electrical engineer father, she fell in love with technology from childhood which led to her developing a software application that was used to run her parent's bookshop.\n\nAfter her years in high school at Queen's College, Lagos, she studied diploma course in computer programming. She proceeded to United Kingdom where she studied economics and graduated with bachelor's degree in economics from University of Essex She also obtained, master's degree in analysis, design and management information from London School of Economics and Political Science. Through her NGO, she has touched live of 12000 girls in Nigeria. She studied Applied Sciences at Harvard University Extension School\n\nIn the UK, she worked with Lonadek Oil and Gas Consultancy where she managed CSR Initiative-2020. She also worked with EDC in the United State on research project.She returned to Nigeria in the year 2005 She established W.TEC in the year 2008. She was honored as fellow of Ashoka in 2013. In 2009,She bagged ABIE Award Winners, Change Agent.\n\nShe is married to Gboyega Lesi and resides in Lagos.\n\n"}
{"id": "44214093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44214093", "title": "Patricia S. Cowings", "text": "Patricia S. Cowings\n\nPatricia S. Cowings (born 1948) is an aerospace psychophysiologist, and was the first African American woman scientist to be trained as an astronaut by NASA (though Sally Ride was the first American woman to fly in space). Although she was an alternate for a space flight in 1979 she did not travel to space. She is most well known for her studies in the physiology of astronauts in outer space, as well as helping find cures for astronaut's motion sickness.\n\nCowings was born and raised in The Bronx, New York City on December 15, 1948. She is the only daughter of Sadie B. and Albert S. Cowings. Sadie was an assistant preschool teacher. Albert was a grocery store owner. She had three other brothers who went on to become a two-star army general, a jazz musician, and a freelance journalist. Her parents emphasized education as a \"way of getting out of the Bronx.\"\n\nPatricia found her love for science at a young age. Psychology and later psychophysiology showed her how to enhance human potential. 'What better field is there than to study the animal who created all the other fields? Humans!' This love was further helped by her psychologist aunt, whom she considered a deep inspiration because she had earned a PhD. Taking an engineering class in grad school where she took part in designing a space shuttle helped launch her desire to work in the field of space technology.\n\nShe did most of her research at NASA Ames Research Center. There she developed and patented a physiological training system called Autogenic-Feedback Training Exercise (AFTE), which enables people to learn voluntary self-control of up to 24 bodily responses in six hours. Her work was first tested in 1985 for (STS 51-b & STS 51c) Spacelab-3 and the first DOD shuttle mission. She tested her AFTE training method also on the Space J-Lab Mission (the first Japanese shuttle mission), with her work focusing on ridding of the astronaut's motion sickness. Later she trained four cosmonauts to control both motion sickness and low blood pressure after six-months in space aboard the MIR space station. She found success, and continued to teach people how to control motion sickness, improve performance of search & rescue pilots, and reduce symptoms of several patient populations suffering from nausea, dizziness and fainting. She has helped author several publications with her husband, William B. Toscano. They have a son, Christopher Michael Cowings Toscano, who traveled with them as they trained space crews.\n\nToday, she continues her work helping to prevent motion sickness for astronauts in space, as well as helping control motion sickness for their return home. She is the principal investigator of Psychophysiological Research Laboratories at NASA Ames Research Center, and has held adjunct professorships in Psychiatry at UCLA and both medical and clinical psychology at the uniformed services university. (ARC).\n\nHer research and teaching has garnered her several awards, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "44857658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44857658", "title": "Patrick Lynch (police officer)", "text": "Patrick Lynch (police officer)\n\nPatrick Lynch is the President of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association of the City of New York. Lynch was born in Bayside, Queens to an Irish-Catholic family. His father was a subway motorman for 30 years. He went to Monsignor Scanlan High School in the Bronx. He is married to Kathleen Casey, and has two sons, both of whom are New York City police officers.\n\nLynch worked for a short time as a NYC subway conductor, but on January 4, 1984, he became a police officer with the New York City Police Department. He has been described as being the most powerful police union chief in the world, having served in this role since 1999 and winning reelection to a 5th term in 2015. Lynch makes $65,382 per year as a police officer and $65,382 per year as the head of the union. He has been described as \"New York City's Blue Bulldog\" for being the head of the 23,000 member Patrolmen's Benevolent Association of the City of New York.\n\nHe has a history of conflicting with New York City Hall. In 2007, he stated that the PBA \"could never support former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani for any elected office.\" He was a huge critic of Police Commissioner Ray Kelly as well as Mayor Michael Bloomberg.\n\nLynch spoke outwardly against the city's teachers' union boss Michael Mulgrew for co-sponsoring Al Sharpton's anti-police rally, saying \"It is absolutely ridiculous that [Mulgrew] . . . would waste his members' dues to get involved with a march that has nothing to do with teachers or his union.\" In the wake of 2014 killings of NYPD officers, Lynch turned his back on Mayor Bill de Blasio due to a belief held by himself as well as most of his contingency that political climates set by the mayor and other government officials lead to the killing of the two officers. After the autopsy of Eric Garner, who died as a result of a choke hold in July 2014 while selling loose cigarettes, he defended the actions of the NYPD officers.\n"}
{"id": "569218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=569218", "title": "Philip D. Zelikow", "text": "Philip D. Zelikow\n\nPhilip David Zelikow (; born September 21, 1954) is an American attorney, diplomat, academic and author. He has worked as the executive director of the 9/11 Commission, director of the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia, and Counselor of the United States Department of State. He is the White Burkett Miller Professor of History at the University of Virginia and was American Academy in Berlin Axel Springer Fellow, in the fall of 2009.\n\nZelikow received a BA in history and political science from the University of Redlands, a J.D. from the University of Houston Law Center (where he was an editor of the law review), and a MALD and Ph.D. in international relations from The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.\n\nAfter practicing law in the early 1980s, Zelikow turned toward the field of national security. He was adjunct professor of national security affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California in 1984–1985.\n\nHe joined the United States Department of State through the standard examination process for the foreign service as a career civil servant. As a Foreign Service Officer, he served overseas at the U.S. Mission to the conventional arms control talks in Vienna, at the State Department's 24-hour crisis center, and on the secretariat staff for Secretary of State George P. Shultz, during the second Reagan administration (1985–1989).\n\nIn 1989, in the George H. W. Bush administration, Zelikow was detailed to join the National Security Council, where he was involved as a senior White House staffer in the diplomacy surrounding the German reunification and the diplomatic settlements accompanying the end of the Cold War in Europe. During the first Gulf War, he aided President Bush, National Security Advisor Brent Scowcroft, and Secretary of State James Baker in diplomatic affairs related to the coalition. He co-authored, with Condoleezza Rice, the book \"Germany Unified and Europe Transformed: A Study in Statecraft\" (1995), an academic study of the politics of reunification.\n\nIn 1991, Zelikow left the NSC to go to Harvard University. From 1991 to 1998, he was Associate Professor of Public Policy and co-director of Harvard's Intelligence and Policy Program, at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.\n\nIn 1998, Zelikow moved to the University of Virginia, where until February 2005 he directed the nation's largest center on the American presidency. He served as director of the Miller Center of Public Affairs and, as White Burkett Miller Professor of History, held an endowed chair. The Center launched a project to transcribe and annotate the previously secret tapes made during the Kennedy, Nixon and Johnson presidencies. In a presidential oral history project headed by James Sterling Young, it systematically gathers additional information on the presidencies of Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and Clinton.\n\nFollowing an appointment at the Department of State from 2005 to 2007 during the Bush administration, Zelikow returned to academics at the University of Virginia. In 2011, he was appointed Associate Dean of the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. He has been instrumental in restructuring the College of Arts & Sciences. Also in 2011, Zelikow was appointed by President Barack Obama to the President's Intelligence Advisory Board.\n\nIn late 2000 and early 2001, Zelikow served on President Bush's transition team. After George W. Bush took office, Zelikow was named to a position on the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board [PFIAB], and worked on other task forces and commissions as well. He directed the bipartisan National Commission on Federal Election Reform, created after the 2000 election and chaired by former presidents Jimmy Carter and Gerald Ford, along with Lloyd Cutler and Bob Michel. This Commission's recommendations led directly to congressional consideration and enactment into law of the Help America Vote Act of 2002.\n\nIn 2002, Phil Zelikow became the executive director of the Markle Task Force on National Security in the Information Age. The Task Force comprises a diverse and bipartisan group of experienced policymakers, senior executives from the information technology industry, public interest advocates, and experts in privacy, intelligence, and national security. The Markle Task Force seeks to inform the policy judgments and investments of the federal, state and local governments in the collection and use of information as it relates to national security. The Task Force's reports and recommendations have been codified through two laws (IRPTA 2004 and the Implementing 9/11 Commission Report Act 2007) and several presidential directives.\n\nZelikow was appointed executive director of the 9/11 Commission (National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States), whose work included examination of the conduct of presidents Clinton and George W. Bush and their administrations prior to and on September 11, 2001. Zelikow's prior involvement with the administration of George W. Bush led to opposition from the 9/11 Family Steering Committee, citing the obvious conflict of interest of having previously worked on the Bush transition team. The Commission's Republican chair and Democratic vice—chair strongly defended Zelikow, both at the time and later. In response to the concerns, Zelikow had agreed to recuse himself from any investigation matters pertaining to the National Security Council's transition from the Clinton to Bush administrations, which Zelikow had helped manage.\n\nAfter being informed of the Department of Defense's Able Danger project by U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Shaffer, he failed to have the 9/11 Commission investigate, despite the promise that the Commission would investigate all 9/11 related topics. Able Danger was not included in the Commission's final report. In 2005 and 2006 a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Curt Weldon, publicized Shaffer's allegations in public statements and hearings. A September 2006 report of the Department of Defense Inspector General found that these allegations were baseless. A further report by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence came to the same conclusion in December 2006.\n\nSome staff members of the 9/11 Commission distrusted Zelikow, considering him to be a \"White House mole\" in view of his being a close confidant of National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice and his having worked in several high level capacities in the George W. Bush administration.\n\nIn \"Rise of the Vulcans\" (2004), James Mann reports that when Richard Haass, a senior aide to Secretary of State Colin Powell and the director of policy planning at the State Department, drafted an overview of America’s national security strategy following the September 11, 2001 attacks, Dr. Rice, the national security advisor, \"ordered that the document be completely rewritten. She thought the Bush administration needed something bolder, something that would represent a more dramatic break with the ideas of the past. Rice turned the writing over to her old colleague, University of Virginia Professor Philip Zelikow.\" One criticism of this document, issued on September 17, 2002, is that it is supposed to have been a significant document in an alleged Bush administration doctrine of preemptive war. However, in the drafting of this document Zelikow had opposed the proposed language using preemption in the context of how to deal with weapons of mass destruction.\n\nIn 2014–15, while on leave from the University of Virginia and working for the Markle Foundation, Zelikow helped lead a Foundation-sponsored group of prominent Americans called \"Rework America.\" The group developed arguments and ideas on how to use the digital revolution to enlarge economic opportunity for all Americans. The group published its ideas in \"America's Moment: Creating Opportunity in the Connected Age.\"\n\nZelikow's role in the second Iraq war is discussed at some length in Bob Woodward's \"State of Denial\", which presents him as an internal critic of the way the war was being conducted in 2005 and 2006, and as an originator of the alternative approach termed \"clear, hold, and build.\" He is also named by sources such as Jack Goldsmith's \"The Terror Presidency\" as an internal critic of the treatment of terrorist captives, and there was wide attention given to an address he made on this subject after leaving office in April 2007.\n\nBased on speeches and internal memos, some political analysts believe that Zelikow disagreed with aspects of the Bush administration's Middle Eastern policy.\n\nAs Counselor to Secretary of State Rice, Zelikow opposed the Bush administration Torture Memos. In 2006, Zelikow wrote a memorandum warning that the abuse of prisoners through so-called \"enhanced interrogation\" could constitute war crimes. Bush administration officials ignored his recommendations, and tried to collect all copies of the memo and destroy them. Jane Mayer, author of the \"Dark Side\", quotes Zelikow as predicting that \"America's descent into torture will in time be viewed like the Japanese internments,\" in that \"(f)ear and anxiety were exploited by zealots and fools.\"\n\nZelikow's area of academic expertise is the history and practice of public policy. In addition to the work on German unification, he has been significantly involved in contemporary scholarship on the Cuban Missile Crisis, including the relation between this crisis and the East-West confrontation over Berlin.\n\nWhile at Harvard, he worked with Ernest May and Richard Neustadt on the use, and misuse, of history in policymaking. They observed, as Zelikow noted in his own words, that \"contemporary\" history is \"defined functionally by those critical people and events that go into forming the public's presumptions about its immediate past. The idea of 'public presumption',\" he explained, \"is akin to William McNeill's notion of 'public myth' but without the negative implication sometimes invoked by the word 'myth.' Such presumptions are beliefs (1) thought to be true (although not necessarily known to be true with certainty), and (2) shared in common within the relevant political community.\" \"\n\nZelikow and May also authored and sponsored scholarship on the relationship between intelligence analysis and policy decisions. Zelikow later helped found a research project to prepare and publish annotated transcripts of presidential recordings made secretly during the Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon administrations (see WhiteHouseTapes.org) and another project to strengthen oral history work on more recent administrations, with both these projects based at the University of Virginia's Miller Center of Public Affairs.\n\nIn writing about the importance of beliefs about history, Zelikow has called attention to what he has called \"'searing' or 'molding' events [that] take on 'transcendent' importance and, therefore, retain their power even as the experiencing generation passes from the scene. In the United States, beliefs about the formation of the nation and the Constitution remain powerful today, as do beliefs about slavery and the Civil War. World War II, Vietnam, and the civil rights struggle are more recent examples.\" He has noted that \"a history’s narrative power is typically linked to how readers relate to the actions of individuals in the history; if readers cannot make a connection to their own lives, then a history may fail to engage them at all.\"\n\nZelikow has also written about terrorism and national security, including a set of Harvard case studies on \"Policing Northern Ireland.\" In the November–December 1998 issue of \"Foreign Affairs\", he co-authored an article Catastrophic Terrorism, with Ashton B. Carter, and John M. Deutch, in which they speculated that if the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center had succeeded, \"the resulting horror and chaos would have exceeded our ability to describe it. Such an act of catastrophic terrorism would be a watershed event in American history. It could involve loss of life and property unprecedented in peacetime and undermine America’s fundamental sense of security, as did the Soviet atomic bomb test in 1949. Like Pearl Harbor, the event would divide our past and future into a before and after. The United States might respond with draconian measures scaling back civil liberties, allowing wider surveillance of citizens, detention of suspects and use of deadly force. More violence could follow, either future terrorist attacks or U.S. counterattacks. Belatedly, Americans would judge their leaders negligent for not addressing terrorism more urgently.\" \n\nZelikow has co-written many books. He wrote a book with Ernest May on \"The Kennedy Tapes,\" and another with Joseph Nye and David C. King on \"Why People Don’t Trust Government.\" Others include:\n\n\nZelikow is a member of the \"Global Development Program Advisory Panel\", Gates Foundation\n\n"}
{"id": "17534339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17534339", "title": "Rene Sylva", "text": "Rene Sylva\n\nRene Sylva (January 1929 – December 28, 2008) was a native Hawaiian botanist from Paia, Hawaii. He was among the only native Hawaiian fishermen to speak in favor of a ban on fishing green sea turtles. After giving up a career in turtle fishing, he became involved in the conservation of native Hawaiian ecosystems. He assisted renowned botanists Otto Degener and Dr. Harold St. John in surveying remote regions of the Hawaiian Islands for native plants.\n\nIn 1976, Sylva became the caretaker of the Maui Zoological and Botanical Gardens in Kahului, Hawaii, which later became known as the Maui Nui Botanical Gardens. Gradually he shifted the garden’s emphasis from exotic animals to plants unique to Maui, Moloka‘i, Lana‘i, and Kaho‘olawe—creating the first botanical garden in the state to focus on endemic plants. He personally collected and cultivated over 200 native coastal and dry forests species. He was widely considered the authority on the native flora of Maui County.\n\nThroughout his life, Sylva passionately defended native Hawaiian ecosystems. In an essay for the Native Hawaiian Plant Society, he wrote:\n\n“It is a good thing to classify plants as endangered, but we must realize that this does not save them from becoming extinct. It merely gives them paper protection. I recall when the first plant was entered on the endangered species list on April 26, 1978. It is still on that list today. As far as I know, no plant has ever come off the Endangered Species List. The only way for a plant to be removed from that list is to become extinct. To me, this is a disgraceful and insulting way of saving Hawaiian plants.”\n\nHe was active with many volunteer organizations, including the Honokowai restoration project, and the reforestation of Kaho‘olawe until suffering from a stroke in 2006. He is credited with mentoring numerous conservationists, including native plant nursery owner, Anna Palomino, and parataxonomists Forest and Kim Starr. For his efforts to conserve rare and endangered flora and fauna in Hawaii, \"Tetramolopium sylvae,\" an endangered species in the Asteraceae family was named in his honor.\n\nSylva served as a tank driver for the U.S. military during the Korean War.\n\n"}
{"id": "528217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528217", "title": "Richard Baer", "text": "Richard Baer\n\nRichard Baer (9 September 1911 – 17 June 1963) was a German SS commander who was the commandant of the Auschwitz I concentration camp from May 1944 to February 1945. As well as the commandant of Nordhausen-Dora from February 1945- April 1945. Following the war, Baer lived under an assumed name to avoid prosecution but was recognized and arrested in 1960. He died in detention before he could stand trial.\n\nBaer was born in Floss, Bavaria in 1911. Originally a trained confectioner, he became a guard in Dachau concentration camp after becoming unemployed in 1930. He was a member of NSDAP (no. 454991) and the \"SS\" (no. 44225). In 1939, he joined the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\", and was appointed adjutant of Neuengamme concentration camp in 1942 following spells in Oranienburg, Columbia-Haus and Sachsenhausen. At Neuengamme he participated in the killing of Soviet prisoners of war in a special gas chamber and in the selection of prisoners for the so-called Operation 14f13 in the T-4 Euthanasia Program.\nFrom November 1942 until May 1944, Baer was adjutant of SS-Obergruppenführer Oswald Pohl, then chief of the \"Wirtschaftsverwaltungshauptamt\" (SS office of economic policy). In November 1943, he took over the department D I, the \"inspectorate for concentration camps\". He succeeded Arthur Liebehenschel, considered by Himmler to be too \"soft\" with the prisoners, as the third and final commandant of Auschwitz from May 11, 1944, until the final dissolution of the camp in early 1945. From November 1943 until the end of 1944 Fritz Hartjenstein and Josef Kramer were responsible for the extermination camp Auschwitz II, Birkenau, so that Baer was only Commandant of this part of the camp from the end of 1944 until January 1945. Near the end of the war Richard Baer, having replaced Otto Förschner as commandant of the Dora-Mittelbau camp in Thuringia Nordhausen, was responsible for the execution of Soviet prisoners at mass gallows. His final rank was SS-Sturmbannführer (Major)\nAt the end of the war, Baer fled and lived near Hamburg as Karl Egon Neumann, a forestry worker. In the course of investigation in the Frankfurt Auschwitz Trials a warrant for his arrest was issued in October 1960 and his photograph was printed in newspapers.The story of Baer's arrest is vividly recounted by Devin Pendas in his book \"The Frankfurt Auschwitz Trial\". After seeing a wanted picture in the \"Bild-Zeitung\", a co-worker on Otto von Bismarck's estate reported that Baer was working as a forester there. When officials confronted \"Neumann\" in the forest on the early morning of December 20, 1960, he at first denied everything. Having already addressed Baer as her \"husband\", the woman in the house subsequently gave her name as \"Frau Baer\", but still claimed that Baer was named Neumann. Baer, however, finally admitted his true identity. On the advice of his lawyer he refused to testify and died of a heart attack in pre-trial detention in 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26799076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26799076", "title": "Risteárd Buidhe Kirwan", "text": "Risteárd Buidhe Kirwan\n\nRisteárd Buidhe Kirwan (1708–1779) was an Irish soldier and duellist.\n\nKirwan was a son of Patrick Kirwan of Cregg and Mary Martin of Dangan. Both towns are in County Galway, and his parents were members of the Tribes of Galway. He was an uncle of the scientist Richard Kirwan, and a cousin of Richard Martin MP, founder of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.\n\nHe travelled to France for his education. He joined the regiment of Dillon of the Irish Brigade. He became famed as a swordsman and duellist, and for his stature, which measured six feet four inches in height. Among his closest acquaintances were Lord Clare and Maurice de Saxe. He participated in the Battle of Fontenoy (1745).\n\nHis became notorious because of his duelling, and was obliged to leave France. He joined the Austrian service. He retired in 1751 and returned to Ireland. He married Maria Birmingham, a relative of Baron Athenry, and had issue. He was nicknamed \"Risteárd Buidhe a' chlaidhimh\" (swarthy Richard of the sword) and \" Dick\".\n\nA watch presented to him by Louis XV, set with diamonds and pearls, was in the possession of the Kirwan family as of 1949.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13352859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13352859", "title": "Robert Dean (ufologist)", "text": "Robert Dean (ufologist)\n\nRobert Orel Dean (March 2, 1929 – October 11, 2018) was an American ufologist from Tucson, Arizona.\n\nDean retired from the U.S. Army as a Command Sergeant Major after a 28-year career. He appeared on radio programs, TV documentaries and at conferences discussing the subject of UFOs and a government cover up of alien visitations to Earth. Dean claimed to have viewed a classified government document called \"The Assessment\" that allegedly discussed threats posed by alien activity on Earth, and concluded that no such threats existed. Dean said he considers himself a professional UFO researcher and had \"cosmic top secret\" clearance while in the military. In 1992 while employed as emergency services coordinator for Pima County, Arizona, Dean sued his employer for discrimination, saying he was treated unfairly because of his belief in UFOs, and because of his age, reportedly settling for $100,000.\n\n\n\n__notoc__\n"}
{"id": "50323021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50323021", "title": "Roger Brody", "text": "Roger Brody\n\nRoger Brody (born 1938) is an American philatelist who in 2016 was invited to sign the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists. He is chairman of the Research Committee of the Smithsonian Museum's Council of Philatelists and is a specialist in early twentieth-century United States philately. Brody has received the Alfred F. Lichtenstein Memorial Award from the Collectors Club of New York, and the John H. Luff Award for Distinguished Philatelic Research from the American Philatelic Society.\n\nIn 2016, he also appeared at the World Stamp Show in New York City at a press conference where it was announced that a missing inverted Jenny stamp was recovered. The stamp was owned by the American Philatelic Research Library, which he led as president at the time.\n\nBrody served as president of the American Philatelic Research Library until 2017.\n\nIn 2005, he gave the fourth annual Maynard Sundman Lecture at the Smithsonian National Postal Museum.\n"}
{"id": "54320631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54320631", "title": "S. A. Beach", "text": "S. A. Beach\n\nSpencer Ambrose Beach (15 September 1860 – 1922), commonly known as S.A. Beach, was an American botanist. Beach served the head of the horticulture department at the University of Iowa and was a founding member of the American Society for Horticultural Science.\n\nBeach was born in 1860 in Sumnerhill, New York. He attended high-school in Ann-arbor before going on to teach in southern Iowa. He enrolled in Iowa State College in 1884 as part of the horticulture department. He earned his BS in 1887 and his MS in 1892. \n\nIn 1898 he joined an experimental horticultural program in Geneva, New York. While there he cross bread Ben Davis and McIntosh apples and in doing so created the Cortland apple, which he declined to patent. Beach is also recognized as the first breeder to attempt to cross pollinate grapes.\n\nThe Royal Horticultural Society of London named Beach an honorary member in 1903, and that same year Beach became a founding member of the ASHS. In 1905 Beach returned from New York to become the head of the horticultural department at Iowa State.\n\nBeach died in 1922.\n"}
{"id": "8625214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8625214", "title": "Sanpitsu", "text": "Sanpitsu\n\nThe term \"Sanpitsu\" (三筆) or \"three brushes\" is used in Japanese to refer to a group of three famous Heian period calligraphers:\n\n\nLater groups of calligraphers were named in imitation of the original Sanpitsu.\n\nNamed for the Kan'ei period in which they flourished:\n\n\nZen Chinese calligraphers who worked in Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7686594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7686594", "title": "Sir George Trevelyan, 4th Baronet", "text": "Sir George Trevelyan, 4th Baronet\n\nSir George Lowthian Trevelyan, 4th Baronet (5 November 1906 – 9 February 1996) was a British educational pioneer and a founding father of the New Age movement. In 1942, after listening to a lecture by Dr Walter Stein, a student of Rudolf Steiner, he transitioned from being agnostic to a new age spiritual thinker, and even studied anthroposophy in the coming years. He first became a History teacher at Gordonstoun School, pioneering radical education methods. After World War II, in 1948, he became the Warden at Attingham Park, a pioneering adult education college in Shropshire, from where he retired in 1971 to found the Wrekin Trust, an educational charity. He was subsequently associated with the Soil Association, the Findhorn Foundation, the Teilhard de Chardin Society and the Essene Network. In the last 15 years of his life he was the focus of many lecture tours and meetings. He also wrote numerous books, including \"A Vision of the Aquarian Age\" (1977), \"Operation Redemption\" (1981), \"Summons to a High Crusade\" (1985) and finally \"Exploration into God\" (1991). He was awarded the Right Livelihood Award, in 1982.\n\nTrevelyan was the eldest child of Sir Charles Trevelyan, 3rd Baronet, and Mary Katherine Bell, a younger half-sister of Gertrude Bell and the daughter of Sir Thomas Bell, 2nd Baronet. He was proud of this ancestry, which he imagined linked him to Sir Trevillian, one of King Arthur's knights, who swam ashore on horseback when Lyonesse finally sank. Legend says that Sir Trevillian emerged with a mighty effort from the waves and landed safely on the dry land of Cornwall. He grew up in his family's Northumberland home, Wallington Hall, which his father gave to the National Trust, effectively disinheriting Trevelyan. He studied at Sidcot School, a Quaker school in Somerset.\n\nIn 1925, he went to read history at Trinity College, Cambridge, in accordance with family tradition. Whilst there he began his 42-year-long association with the famous 'Trevelyan Man Hunt', an extraordinary annual event which involved a chase on foot over the wild Lakeland fells, with human 'hunters' hunting after human 'hares'. This energetic event was started in 1898 by Trevlyan's historian uncle G. M. Trevelyan and the Wynthrop Youngs, and still continues today, as a kind of hide and seek game without dogs or weapons.\n\nAfter leaving Cambridge, Trevelyan went on to teach at Gordonstoun, which at that time was a school pioneering a radical education. Later, he became involved as a teacher of the Alexander Technique for postural integration, and apprenticed himself to a furniture designer and master craftsman in wood, Peter Waals, working at Waals' workshop in the Cotswold hills. Trevelyan himself made many fine pieces of furniture, including a bed in which he finally died, as he wished.\n\nIn 1931, Trevelyan took the first class F. Matthias Alexander gave for future teachers of the Alexander Technique.\n\nIn 1942, after hearing a lecture given by Dr Walter Stein, a student of Rudolf Steiner, Trevelyan discovered a spiritual world-view. During his lifetime he explored beliefs in angels, the calming effects of crystals and the power of ley lines, alongside organic farming and communal living.\n\nIn 1947, after his wartime military service, Trevelyan was appointed Warden and Principal of Attingham Park, an adult training college in Shropshire, where he carried out his pioneering work in the teaching of spiritual knowledge as adult education. The courses ranged from chamber music and drama onto esoteric subjects such as 'Finding the Inner Teacher' and 'Holistic Vision'. The latter attracting large numbers of participants, many of them from other countries as well as Britain. The college was jointly sponsored by the local authority and the University of Birmingham, both of whom looked askance at Trevelyan's attraction towards the mystical; and so it took immense moral courage, for instance, for him to present a course on 'Death and Becoming', a subject that was in those days virtually taboo.\n\nHe was involved in the establishment of the Findhorn Foundation, the Gatekeeper Trust, and through his friendship with Wellesley Tudor Pole, the Chalice Well and the Lamplighter Movement.\n\nIn 1971, he set up the Wrekin Trust to promote spiritual education and knowledge\n\nIn 1982, he was a recipient of the Right Livelihood Award.\n\nHe married Helen Lindsay-Smith (died 1994) in 1940, and the couple had an adopted daughter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37778274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37778274", "title": "Te Ata Fisher", "text": "Te Ata Fisher\n\nMary Frances Thompson (December 3, 1895 – October 25, 1995), best known as Te Ata, was an actress and citizen of the Chickasaw Nation known for telling Native American stories. She performed as a representative of Native Americans at state dinners before President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1930s. She was inducted into the Oklahoma Hall of Fame in 1957 and named Oklahoma's first State Treasure in 1987.\n\nTe Ata was born Mary Frances Thompson in Emet, Chickasaw Nation (now in Johnston County, Oklahoma), to Thomas Benjamin Thompson, a Chickasaw, and Bertie (Freund) Thompson. The name \"Te Ata,\" is the Māori (New Zealand Aboriginal) word for \"The Morning.\" It was given to her by an unknown person. \"Te Ata\" is not a Chickasaw word nor phrase. Te Ata began her early education in a one-room tribal school, but after two years she was sent to Bloomfield Academy, a Chickasaw boarding school for girls. At Bloomfield, she met Muriel Wright, a teacher who became her role model. Te Ata graduated high school from Tishomingo, Oklahoma where she was salutatorian.\n\nIn the fall of 1915, Te Ata began college at the Oklahoma College for Women (now the University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma) in Chickasha, and graduated in 1919. During her time at Oklahoma College for Women, she worked as an assistant in the theatre department for theatre instructor Frances Dinsmore Davis. It was during this time that Te Ata was first introduced to the stage.\n\nDavis encouraged Te Ata to use Native American stories as the basis for her senior performance at Oklahoma College for Women. Te Ata made her debut as an artist during her senior year of college performing songs and stories from several different tribes. The debut was well-received, and she was asked to perform at the University of Oklahoma and various other institutions.\n\nUpon graduation, Te Ata was offered a part in a traveling Chautauqua circuit by Thurlow Lieurance, who had been in the audience at her senior performance. The tour gave Te Ata an opportunity to travel across the United States and fostered her talents as a performer. She undertook further training in theatre at the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She then moved to New York City, where she performed in several Broadway productions; her most notable role was Andromache in The Trojan Women. She eventually decided to concentrate on her one-woman performances of Native American songs and stories.\n\nEleanor Roosevelt, whose husband, Franklin D. Roosevelt, was then governor of New York, invited Te Ata to perform at the governor's mansion. After Franklin was elected president, Te Ata performed at the White House for his first state dinner. In 1939, Te Ata performed at Hyde Park for the Roosevelts and the visiting King George VI and Queen Elizabeth of England, who were visiting the United States. The King and Queen then invited Te Ata to perform in England.\n\nIn addition to traveling across the United States, Te Ata visited Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, Finland, England, Peru, Guatemala, Canada, the Yucatán and Mexico.\n\nTe Ata’s career spanned over 60 years, and she collected hundreds of stories from different tribes. During her performances she told numerous stories, such as “There Are Birds of Many Colors” by Hiamove, “The Creation of Mankind” told to her by her father, “How Death Came into the World,” “Pasikola (Rabbit) was Disconnected,” “Anybody Want a Wife?,” “The Corn Ceremony,” and “The Blue Duck.” The Chickasaw storyteller Lynn Moroney, who studied with Te Ata, published an illustration children's book adaptation of Te Ata's telling of the story \"Baby Rattlesnake\" in 1986, from Children's Book Press.\n\nOn September 28, 1933, Te Ata married Dr. George Clyde Fisher in Muskogee, Oklahoma, at the Bacone College Ataloa Lodge, named for Chickasaw vocalist and friend Ataloa. Te Ata had many notable friends including First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt, Jim Thorpe and Woody Crumbo. Through Dr. Fisher, she was introduced to Albert Einstein, Henry Ford, John Burroughs, Thomas Edison, E.W. Deming, Clark Wissler and Chief Buffalo Child Long Lance. She was also the niece of Douglas H. Johnston, the last governor of the old Chickasaw Nation.\n\nTe Ata died in Oklahoma City on October 26, 1995. Her legacy is continued through her family, which includes former Oklahoma state legislator Helen TeAta Cole and Helen's son, U.S. Congressman from Oklahoma, Tom Cole.\n\nTe Ata’s life and likeness have been featured in many books, plays and magazines. In the summer of 1924, Te Ata was featured in McCall’s magazine in its “Types of American Beauty” series.\n\nHer life and performances have been commemorated through several different awards. She was the namesake for Lake Te Ata in New York. She was named the \"Ladies' Home Journal\" Woman of the Year in 1976. She was inducted into the Oklahoma Hall of Fame in 1957 and named Oklahoma’s Official State Treasure in 1987. In 1990, she was inducted into the Chickasaw Hall of Fame.\n\nChickasaw playwright JudyLee Oliva wrote a play based on her life, entitled \"Te Ata,\" which won the Five Civilized Tribes' Best American Indian Musical Award in 2000. It premiered at the University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma in 2006 and was performed at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian in 2012. In 2012, Te Ata was portrayed by actress Kumiko Konishi in the film \"Hyde Park on Hudson\", which centered on the 1939 meeting of Franklin D. Roosevelt and King George VI and Queen Elizabeth of England; in the film, Te Ata performs for the king and queen as she did in 1939.\n\nIn 2014, the Chickasaw Nation began production on a film \"Te Ata\" based on Te Ata's life. The film stars Q'orianka Kilcher and was released in October 2017.\n\nHer alma mater, University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma (formerly Oklahoma College for Women), has presented her with multiple honors. \nIn 1972, she became the first inductee into the University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma Hall of Fame. In 2006, USAO renamed the its auditorium in Trout Hall \"Te Ata Memorial Auditorium.\" In 2014, she was further honored with the dedication of a statue in her likeness in the center of the campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "336959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336959", "title": "Veronica Lake", "text": "Veronica Lake\n\nVeronica Lake (born Constance Frances Marie Ockelman; November 14, 1922 – July 7, 1973) was an American film, stage, and television actress. Lake won both popular and critical acclaim for her role in \"Sullivan's Travels\" and for femme fatale roles in film noirs with Alan Ladd during the 1940s. She was also well known for her peek-a-boo hairstyle. By the late 1940s, Lake's career began to decline, due in part to her alcoholism. She made only one film in the 1950s, but made several guest appearances on television. She returned to the big screen in 1966 in the film \"Footsteps in the Snow\", but the role failed to revitalize her career.\n\nLake released her memoirs, \"Veronica: The Autobiography of Veronica Lake\", in 1970. She used the book's profits to finance a low-budget horror film, \"Flesh Feast\", her final screen role. Lake died in July 1973 from hepatitis and acute kidney injury at the age of 50.\n\nLake was born Constance Frances Marie Ockelman in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. Her father, Harry Eugene Ockelman, was of German and Irish descent, and worked for an oil company aboard a ship. He died in an industrial explosion in Philadelphia in 1932. Lake's mother, Constance Frances Charlotta (née Trimble; 1902–1992), of Irish descent, married Anthony Keane, a newspaper staff artist, also of Irish descent, in 1933, and Lake began using his surname.\n\nThe Keanes lived in Saranac Lake, New York, where young Lake attended St. Bernard's School. She was then sent to Villa Maria, an all-girls Catholic boarding school in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, from which she was expelled. Lake later claimed she attended McGill University and took a premed course for a year, intending to become a surgeon. This claim was included in several press biographies, although Lake later declared it was bogus. Lake subsequently apologized to the president of McGill, who was simply amused when she explained her habit of self-dramatizing. When her stepfather fell ill during her second year, the Keane family later moved to Miami, Florida. Lake attended Miami High School, where she was known for her beauty. She had a troubled childhood and was diagnosed with schizophrenia, according to her mother.\n\nIn 1938, the Keanes moved to Beverly Hills, California. While briefly under contract to MGM, Lake enrolled in that studio's acting farm, the Bliss-Hayden School of Acting (now the Beverly Hills Playhouse). She made friends with a girl named Gwen Horn and accompanied her when Horn went to audition at RKO. She appeared in the play \"Thought for Food\" in January 1939. A theatre critic from the \"Los Angeles Times\" called her \"a fetching little trick\" for her appearance in \"She Made Her Bed\".\n\nShe also appeared as an extra in a number of movies. Keane's first appearance on screen was for RKO, playing a small role among several coeds in the film \"Sorority House\" (1939). The part wound up being cut from the film, but she was encouraged to continue. Similar roles followed, including \"All Women Have Secrets\", \"Young as Your Feel\", \"Forty Little Mothers\" and \"Dancing Co-Ed\". \"Forty Little Mothers\" was the first time she let her hair down on screen.\n\nLake attracted the interest of Fred Wilcox, an assistant director, who shot a test scene of her performing from a play and showed it to an agent. The agent, in turn, showed it to producer Arthur Hornblow Jr., who was looking for a new girl to play the part of a nightclub singer in a military drama, \"I Wanted Wings\" (1940). The role would make Lake, still in her teens, a star. Hornblow changed the actress's name to Veronica Lake. According to him, her eyes, \"calm and clear like a blue lake\", were the inspiration for her new name.\n\nIt was during the filming of \"I Wanted Wings\" that Lake developed her signature look. Lake's long blonde hair accidentally fell over her right eye during a take and created a \"peek-a-boo\" effect. \"I was playing a sympathetic drunk, I had my arm on a table ... it slipped ... and my hair — it was always baby fine and had this natural break — fell over my face ... It became my trademark and purely by accident\", she recalled.\n\n\"I Wanted Wings\" was a big hit. The hairstyle became Lake's trademark and was widely copied by women.\n\nEven before the film came out, Lake was dubbed \"the find of 1941\". However, Lake did not think this meant she would have a long career and maintained her goal was to be a surgeon. \"Only the older actors keep on a long time ... I don't want to hang on after I've reached a peak. I'll go back to medical school\", she said. Paramount announced two follow-up movies, \"China Pass\" and \"Blonde Venus\". Instead, Lake was cast in Preston Sturges's \"Sullivan's Travels\" with Joel McCrea. She was six months pregnant when filming began.\n\nParamount put Lake in a thriller, \"This Gun for Hire\" (1942), with Robert Preston as her love interest. However, she shared more scenes with Alan Ladd; the two of them were so popular together that they would be reteamed in lead roles for three more films. Both had cameos in \"Star Spangled Rhythm\" (1942), an all-star Paramount film.\n\nLake was meant to be reunited with McCrea in another comedy, \"I Married a Witch\", (also 1942) produced by Sturges and directed by René Clair, but McCrea refused to act with her again, reportedly saying, \"Life's too short for two films with Veronica Lake\". Production was delayed, enabling Lake to be reunited with Ladd in \"The Glass Key\" (again 1942), replacing Patricia Morison. The male lead in \"I Married a Witch\" was eventually played by Fredric March and the resulting movie, like \"The Glass Key\", was successful at the box office. René Clair, the director of \"I Married a Witch\", said of Lake, \"She was a very gifted girl, but she didn't believe she was gifted.\"\n\nLake was meant to co-star with Charles Boyer in \"Hong Kong\" for Arthur Hornblow, but it was not made. She received acclaim for her part as a suicidal nurse in \"So Proudly We Hail!\" (1943). At the peak of her popularity, she earned $4,500 a week.\n\nAlthough popular with the public, Lake had a complex personality and acquired a reputation for being difficult to work with. Eddie Bracken, her co-star in \"Star Spangled Rhythm\", in which Lake appeared in a musical number, was quoted as saying, \"She was known as 'The Bitch' and she deserved the title.\" However, Lake and McCrea did make another film together, the 1947 production Ramrod. During filming of \"The Blue Dahlia\" (1946), screenwriter Raymond Chandler referred to her as \"Moronica Lake\".\n\nDuring World War II, Lake changed her trademark peek-a-boo hairstyle at the urging of the government to encourage women working in war industry factories to adopt more practical, safer hairstyles. Although the change helped to decrease accidents involving women getting their hair caught in machinery, doing so may have damaged Lake's career. She also became a popular pin-up girl for soldiers during World War II and traveled throughout the United States to raise money for war bonds.\n\nIn June 1944, Lake appeared at a war bond drive in Boston, where her services as a dishwasher were auctioned off. She also performed in a revue, with papers saying her \"talk was on the grim side\". Hedda Hopper later claimed this appearance was responsible for Paramount giving her the third lead in \"Out of This World\", supporting Diana Lynn, saying \"Lake clipped her own wings in her Boston bond appearance ... It's lucky for Lake, after Boston, that she isn't out of pictures\".\n\nLake's career faltered with her unsympathetic role as Nazi spy Dora Bruckman in \"The Hour Before the Dawn\" (1944). Scathing reviews of \"The Hour Before the Dawn\" included criticism of her unconvincing German accent. She had begun drinking more heavily during this period, and a growing number of people refused to work with her. Lake had a number of months off work, during which time she lost a child and was divorced. She was brought back in \"Bring On the Girls\" (1945), Lake's first proper musical, although she had sung in \"This Gun for Hire\" and \"Star Spangled Rhythm\". There were two more movies with Bracken, \"Out of This World\" and \"Hold That Blonde\", both also 1945.\nLake then made two films produced by John Houseman, \"Miss Susie Slagle's\" and \"The Blue Dahlia\" (both 1946). While waiting for the films to be released in 1945, she took stock of her career, claiming, \"I had to learn about acting. I've played all sorts of parts, taken just what came along regardless of high merit. In fact, I've been a sort of general utility person. I haven't liked all the roles. One or two were pretty bad\".\n\nOne role Lake really liked was \"Hold That Blonde\" (1945), supporting Eddie Bracken (in a part turned down by Bob Hope). \"It's a comedy, rather like what Carole Lombard used to do ... It represents a real change of pace\". She thought she had a good part in \"The Blue Dahlia\".\n\nLake expressed interest in renegotiating her deal with Paramount:\n\nThe studio feels that way about it too. They have indicated they are going to fuss more about the pictures in which I appear. I think I'll enjoy being fussed about ... I want this to be the turning point and I think that it will. I am free and clear of unpleasant characters, unless they are strongly justified. I've had a varied experience playing them and also appearing as heroines. The roles themselves haven't been noteworthy and sometimes not even especially spotlighted, but I think they've all been beneficial in one way or another. From here on there should be a certain pattern of development, and that is what I am going to fight for if necessary, though I don't believe it will be because they are so understanding here at Paramount.\n\nShe made her first film outside Paramount since she became a star, a Western, \"Ramrod\" (1947), directed by her then-husband Andre DeToth, which reunited her with Joel McCrea, despite his earlier reservation. Back at her home studio she had a cameo in \"Variety Girl\" (1947) then was united with Ladd for the last time in \"Saigon\" (1948), in which she returned to her former peek-a-boo hairstyle; the movie was not particularly well received. Neither was a romantic drama, \"Isn't It Romantic\" (also 1948) or a comedy \"The Sainted Sisters\" (1948). In 1948 Paramount decided not to renew Lake's contract. \n\nLake moved to 20th Century Fox to make \"Slattery's Hurricane\" (1949), directed by DeToth. It was only a support role and there were not many other offers. In 1950 it was announced she and DeToth would make \"Before I Wake\" (from a suspense novel by Mel Devrett) and \"Flanagan Boy\". Neither was made. She appeared in \"Stronghold\" (1951), which she later described as \"a dog\", an independent production from Lippert Pictures shot in Mexico. She later sued for unpaid wages on the film. Lake and DeToth filed for bankruptcy that same year.\n\nThe IRS later seized their home for unpaid taxes. On the verge of a nervous breakdown and bankrupt, Lake ran away, left DeToth, and flew alone to New York.\n\n\"They said, 'She'll be back in a couple of months,'\" recalled Lake. \"Well I never returned. Enough was enough already. Did I want to be one of the walking dead or a real person?\"\n\nShe performed in summer stock theatre and in stage roles in England. In October 1955, she collapsed in Detroit, where she had been appearing on stage in \"The Little Hut\".\n\nAfter her third divorce, Lake drifted between cheap hotels in New York City, and was arrested several times for public drunkenness and disorderly conduct. In 1962, a \"New York Post\" reporter found her living at the all-women's Martha Washington Hotel in Manhattan, working as a waitress downstairs in the cocktail lounge. She was working under the name \"Connie de Toth\". Lake said she took the job in part because \"I like people. I like to talk to them\".\n\nThe reporter's widely distributed story led to speculation that Lake was destitute. After the story ran, fans of Lake sent her money which she returned as \"a matter of pride\". Lake vehemently denied that she was destitute and stated, \"It's as though people were making me out to be down-and-out. I wasn't. I was paying $190 a month rent then, and that's a long way from being broke\". The story did revive some interest in Lake and led to some television and stage appearances, most notably in the 1963 off-Broadway revival of the musical \"Best Foot Forward\".\n\nIn 1966, she had a brief stint as a television hostess in Baltimore, Maryland, along with a largely ignored film role in \"Footsteps in the Snow\". She also continued appearing in stage roles. She went to Freeport in the Bahamas to visit a friend and ended up living there for a few years.\n\nLake's memoirs, \"Veronica: The Autobiography of Veronica Lake\", which she dictated to the writer Donald Bain, were published in the United Kingdom in 1969, and in the United States the following year. In the book, Lake discusses her career, her failed marriages, her romances with Howard Hughes, Tommy Manville and Aristotle Onassis, her alcoholism, and her guilt over not spending enough time with her children. In the book, Lake stated to Bain that her mother pushed her into a career as an actress. Bain quoted Lake, looking back at her career, as saying, \"I never did cheesecake like Ann Sheridan or Betty Grable. I just used my hair\". She also laughed off the term \"sex symbol\" and instead referred to herself as a \"sex zombie\".\n\nWhen she went to the UK to promote her book in 1969 she received an offer to appear on stage in \"Madam Chairman\". Also in 1969, Lake essayed the role of Blanche DuBois in a revival of \"A Streetcar Named Desire\" on the English stage; her performance won rave reviews. With the proceeds from her autobiography, after she had divided them with Bain, she co-produced and starred in her final film, \"Flesh Feast\" (1970), a low-budget horror movie with a Nazi-myth storyline.\n\nAfter purchasing an airplane for her husband, André de Toth, Lake earned her pilot's license in 1946. She later flew solo between Los Angeles and New York when leaving him.\n\nLake's first marriage was to art director John S. Detlie, in 1940. They had a daughter, Elaine (born in 1941), and a son, Anthony (born July 8, 1943). According to news from the time, Lake's son was born prematurely after she tripped on a lighting cable while filming a movie. Anthony died on July 15, 1943. Lake and Detlie separated in August 1943 and divorced in December 1943. In 1944, Lake married film director Andre DeToth with whom she had a son, Andre Anthony Michael III (known as Michael DeToth), and a daughter, Diana (born October 1948). Days before Diana's birth, Lake's mother sued her for support payments. Lake and DeToth divorced in 1952.\n\nIn September 1955, she married songwriter Joseph Allan McCarthy. They were divorced in 1959. In 1969, she revealed that she rarely saw her children.\n\nIn June 1973, Lake returned to the United States and while traveling in Vermont, visited a local doctor, complaining of stomach pains. She was discovered to have cirrhosis of the liver as a result of her years of drinking, and on June 26, she checked into the University of Vermont Medical Center in Burlington.\n\nShe died there on July 7, 1973, of acute hepatitis and acute kidney injury. Her son Michael claimed her body. Lake's memorial service was held at the Universal Chapel in New York City on July 11.\n\nShe was cremated and, according to her wishes, her ashes were scattered off the coast of the Virgin Islands. In 2004, some of Lake's ashes were reportedly found in a New York antique store.\n\nFor her contribution to the motion picture industry, Lake has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6918 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n\nClips from her role in \"The Glass Key\" (1942) were integrated into the film \"Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid\" (1982) as character Monica Stillpond.\n\nLake was one of the models for the animated character Jessica Rabbit in the film \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit?\" (1988), especially for her hairstyle.\n\nIn the 1997 film \"L.A. Confidential\" Kim Basinger won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her portrayal of a prostitute who is a Veronica Lake look-alike.\n\nA geographical feature called \"Lake Veronica\" was a recurring joke in the \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" series and film.\n\nIn \"\" (the 2013, posthumously released autobiography by Robert B. Sherman) writes about his teenage friendship with Lake.\n\nVeronica Lake's image was used as a sight gag in the movie \"The Major and the Minor\" (1942) with Ginger Rogers and Ray Milland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "446133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446133", "title": "Yuri Kondratyuk", "text": "Yuri Kondratyuk\n\nYuriy Vasilievich Kondratyuk (real name Oleksandr Ignatyevich Shargei, , \"Oleksandr Hnatovych Sharhei\") (21 June 1897 – February 1942) was a Ukrainian Soviet engineer and mathematician. He was a pioneer of astronautics and spaceflight, a theoretician and a visionary who, in the early 20th century, developed the first known lunar orbit rendezvous (LOR), a key concept for landing and return spaceflight from Earth to the Moon. The LOR was later used for the plotting of the first actual human spaceflight to the Moon. Many other aspects of spaceflight and space exploration are covered in his works.\n\nKondratyuk made his scientific discoveries in circumstances of war, repetitious persecutions from authorities and serious illnesses.\n\n\"Yuriy Kondratyuk\" is a stolen identity under which the author was hiding after the Russian revolution and became known to the scientific community.\n\nKondratyuk was born as Oleksandr Ignatiyovych Shargei in 1897 in Poltava, Russian Empire (now Ukraine), although his family originally lived in Kiev. His father, Ignat Benedyktovych Shargei, studied physics and mathematics in Kyiv University at the time of his marriage. Kondratyuk's mother, Ludmyla Lvivna Schlippenbach taught French at a Kiev school, and must have already been pregnant when she married in January 1897. She is a direct descendant of Wolmar Anton von Schlippenbach, a general who took part in Charles XII of Sweden's failed invasion of Russia. Her grandfather Anton von Schlippenbach was Lt. Colonel of Russian army and participated in the Napoleonic wars. Ludmyla was devoted to social activism and was imprisoned on several occasions for participating in demonstrations. During her last stay in a Kiev prison, shortly before Aleksandr was born, she was diagnosed with a mental disorder and placed into an asylum in 1902. Aleksandr lived with his father and step-mother in St. Petersburg until 1910, when his father died and Aleksandr returned to Poltava to live with his paternal grandmother.\n\nFrom an early age, Kondratyuk was fascinated by his father's books on physics and mathematics and demonstrated great abilities in these areas. When he was old enough to attend high school, he was admitted straight into the third form of a prestigious high school, where he graduated with a gold medal for proficiency a few years later.\n\nKondratyuk later enrolled at the Great Polytechnic in Petrograd to study engineering, where he was influenced by Ivan Meshcherskiy. Soon he was drafted into the army at the outbreak of World War I and graduated from warrant officer school there. During his military service on the Caucasian Front, Kondratyuk filled four notebooks with his ideas of interplanetary flight. These included suggesting the use of a modular spacecraft to reach the Moon, leaving the propulsion section of the vehicle on orbit while a smaller lander journeyed to the surface and back (the strategy eventually adopted by the engineers of the Apollo program). He included detailed calculations of the trajectory to take a spacecraft from Earth orbit to lunar orbit and back to Earth orbit, a trajectory now known as \"Kondratyuk's route\" or \"Kondratyuk's loop\".\n\nKondratyuk left the army in 1917 following the Russian Revolution and tried to make a living stoking boilers back in Poltava. As a locally born former officer of the Tsarist army, he was at high risk of arrest by Bolshevik authorities as an enemy of the people. The following year, Kondratyuk made an attempt to escape for Poland but was stopped and turned back by border guards. Ordinarily, he would probably have been shot, but the guards recognised the early symptoms of typhus in him and perhaps decided to spare themselves a bullet. He was nursed back to health by a neighbour, and on the advice of friends, decided to flee for another location. His friends obtained forged identification papers for him, with the name of Yuri Vasilievich Kondratyuk, born in Lutsk in 1900 (who in reality had died of tuberculosis in 1921). With this new identity, Kondratyuk lived in and around Kuban and the Northern Caucasus, working as a mechanic and railroad worker. He settled in Novosibirsk in Siberia in 1927.\n\nWorking as a mechanic, Kondratyuk completed the manuscript of a book titled \"Conquest of Interplanetary Space\", dealing with rocket motion and issues concerning the colonization of space. He also suggested using a gravitational slingshot trajectory to accelerate a spacecraft. In 1925, Kondratyuk made contact with Moscow-based scientist Vladimir Vetchinkin and sent him the manuscript. Up to that time, he and his work were unknown to rocketry enthusiasts. While the book was enthusiastically received by scientists in Moscow, no publisher would touch such a fanciful work. Eventually, Kondratyuk paid a Novosibirsk printing shop to produce 2,000 copies of the 72-page work, and even then had to do much of the typesetting and operating the press himself, both to save costs but also because the equations in the book posed problems for the printer. Kondratyuk's discoveries were made independently of Konstantin Tsiolkovsky who also worked on spaceflight issues at that time; the two never met.\n\nApplying his engineering skill to local problems, Kondratyuk designed a huge 13,000 ton grain elevator (quickly nicknamed \"Mastodon\") in Kamen-na-Obi, built of wood without a single nail since metal was in short supply in Siberia. This ingenuity would work against him when in 1930 he was investigated as a \"saboteur\" by the NKVD. The lack of nails in the structure was used as evidence that he had planned it to collapse. Convicted of anti-Soviet activity, Kondratyuk was sentenced to three years in GULAG, but because of his evident talents was sent to a \"sharashka\" (research facility prison) rather than a labour camp. There, he was first put to work evaluating foreign coal mining machinery for the use in Kuzbass, and quickly impressed the camp supervisor with his ingenuity. At the supervisor's request, in November 1931 a review board changed Kondratyuk's status from \"prisoner\" to \"exiled\", and sent him to work on Siberian grain projects.\n\nKondratyuk learned of a competition to design a large wind power generator for the Crimea, sponsored by Sergo Ordzhonikidze, then People's Commissar for Heavy Industry. With fellow exiled engineers Pyotr Gorchakov and Nikolai Nikitin, Kondratyuk submitted a design for a 165-metre (500 ft) high concrete tower supporting a four-bladed propeller with a span of 80 metres (240 ft) and capable of generating up to 12,000 kW. In November 1932, Ordzhonikidze selected this design as the winner and invited the team to meet with him in Moscow before sending them to Kharkiv to finalise the design and supervise its construction. While in Moscow, Kondratyuk had the opportunity to meet Sergei Korolev, then head of the GIRD (Soviet rocket research group). Korolev offered Kondratyuk a position on his staff, but Kondratyuk declined, fearing that the scrutiny he would come under the NKVD would reveal his true identity.\n\nKondratyuk, Gorchakov, and Nikitin worked on the wind power project for the next four years until Ordzhonikidze's mysterious death in 1937. Overnight, the project was deemed to be too expensive and dangerous and was shut down, the tower only half-built. Nikitin would later use what he had learned on this project when he designed the Ostankino Tower in the 1960s. Meanwhile, the men went to work on designing smaller wind turbines (in the 150-200 kW range) to power farms. During this time, Kondratyuk learned of the arrest of Korolev on charges of treason for wasting time on designing spacecraft. He immediately decided to divest himself of his own copious notes on the subject. The former neighbour in Novosibirsk who had nursed him back to health after his episode of typhus agreed to take his notebooks and eventually took these to the United States when she escaped there with her daughter following World War II. He also sent a copy of his published work to the Tsiolkovsky museum in Kaluga.\n\nKondratyuk joined the Red Army as a volunteer in June 1941 and died in 1942 near Kaluga. The exact circumstances of his death are not known. His unit was involved in heavy fighting against the Nazis in October 1941, and 3 October is sometimes given as the date of his demise. Evidence collected in the 1990s suggests that he disappeared in January or February 1942 while repairing a communications cable at night near Zasetski.\n\n\nWhen American astronaut Neil Armstrong visited the Soviet Union after his historic flight to the Moon, he collected a handful of soil from outside Kondratyuk's house in Novosibirsk to acknowledge his contribution to spaceflight, reportedly urging Soviet authorities to start commemorating Kondratyuk. Later, a science centre and college in Novosibirsk, the streets in Poltava, Kiev and Moscow were named after Kondratyuk, as well as the Kondratyuk crater on the Moon and the 3084 Kondratyuk minor planet discovered in 1977.\n\nThe government of Ukraine has issued postage stamps and coins featuring Kondratyuk. The Poltava National Technical University has born Kondratyuk's name since 1997.\n\nYuri Kondratyuk was inducted to the International Space Hall of Fame (2014).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8709649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8709649", "title": "Ōbaku no Sanpitsu", "text": "Ōbaku no Sanpitsu\n\n\nThey are all connected with the Ōbaku school of Zen Buddhism. Analogous groups of famous calligraphers include the Sanseki and Sanpitsu.\n"}
