{"id": "22785402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22785402", "title": "Aamani", "text": "Aamani\n\nAamani (born 16 November 1973) is an Indian actress who has predominantly appeared in Telugu and Tamil films. She made her debut in a lead role opposite Naresh in the Telugu film \"Jamba Lakidi Pamba\", directed by E. V. V. Satyanarayana. The film turned out to be a blockbuster. \n\nShe starred in the film \"Mister Pellam\" directed by Bapu, which won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Telugu. She won Filmfare Award for Best Actress - Telugu for the film \"Subha Lagnam\" and Nandi Award for Best Actress for the films \"Subha Sankalpam\" and \"Mr. Pellam\".\n\nShe started her career doing small roles in films like \"Aadadhi\". Subsequently, she was paired as the lead actress opposite actors like Dr.Vishnuvardhana, Nagarjuna, Balakrishna, Krishna, Jagapathi Babu and Kamal Haasan. She won Filmfare Award for Best Actress - Telugu for the film Subha Lagnam & Nandi Award for Best Actress for the films Subha Sankalpam & Mr. Pellam .After a hiatus of many years, she appeared in the film \"Aa Naluguru\".\n\nShe was born into a Telugu family settled in Bangalore. Her husband is a business man from Chennai. Because of the rising acting career, she had to quit education after tenth grade. She has a daughter and a son.\n\n"}
{"id": "2147354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2147354", "title": "Abismo Negro", "text": "Abismo Negro\n\nAndrés Alejandro Palomeque González (July 1, 1971 – March 22, 2009) was a Mexican Luchador (Spanish for \"masked professional wrestler\"). He is best known for appearing under the stage name Abismo Negro, which is Spanish for \"Black Abyss\" or \"black hole\", in the Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA) promotion. Before appearing under the ring name Abismo Negro, Palomeque worked for five years under the alias \"[the] Winners\" and before that also wrestled as the characters \"Alex Dinamo\", \"Pequeño Samurai\", and \"Furor\" for short periods. Palomeque owned and operated the \"Gimnasio Abismo Negro\", a wrestling school where individuals were trained to become professional wrestlers.\n\nIn his professional wrestling career, Palomeque worked for the two most prominent professional wrestling promotions in Mexico: Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) and AAA. He also worked for the North American–based promotions the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) due to talent exchange programs between AAA and WWF in 1997 and TNA in 2004, as well as making appearances for the Michinoku Pro and Pro Wrestling Noah promotions in Japan\n\nOn March 22, 2009, Palomeque was found dead in a river near El Rosario, Sinaloa; the official cause of death was listed as drowning. On the night before, a wrestler using the Abismo Negro outfit worked an AAA show pretending to be Palomeque; this incident caused the promoter to be barred from promoting shows for two years. Palomeque was inducted into the AAA Hall of Fame in June 2013.\n\nAndrés Alejandro Palomeque González was born July 1, 1971, in Villahermosa, Tabasco, Mexico. Palomeque started to get interested in professional wrestling at the age of nine when his father, Juan Francisco Palomeque Torres, took him to his first wrestling event. Later the Palomeque Family moved to Poza Rica where a young Palomeque took up Pentathlon (long jump, high jump, 110 metres hurdles run, shot put, 1500 metres run) in school. He and his brother, César Palomeque, had an interest in Martial Arts and trained together for years. When Palomeque was thirteen years old he began working in a gymnasium where professional wrestlers were trained, initially he paid for the use of the gymnasium by cleaning it after hours. When the family moved back to the Tabasco region he began training under Don Nerio Soto, who worked under the ring name \"El Noruego\" (the Norwegian), and his brother Delio Soto to become a luchador, or professional wrestler. Professional wrestlers perform in a non-competitive sport based on simulated fighting with storylines written by creative teams and matches with predetermined results. Don Soto later recollects how he and his family took the young man in and made him part of their family, practically adopting him while he was enrolled in Soto's wrestling school and later as he worked on the local wrestling circuit. Palomeque made his professional wrestling debut in 1987, at the age of 16, under the ring name \"Alex Dinamo\".\n\nPalomeque received further training from famous Mexican wrestling coaches Diablo Velasco and Ray Mendoza before changing his character and ring name to \"Pequeño Samurai\"—a masked persona patterned after the Japanese Samurai tradition. In 1991, Palomeque began working for Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL; Spanish for \"World Wrestling Council\"), the biggest wrestling promotion in Mexico at that time. In CMLL, he worked as Furor, another masked ring persona. While working as Furor, Palomeque won his first \"Luchas de apuestas\", or \"bet match\" when he defeated his mentor El Noruego in a match where Noruego's hair and Palomeque's mask was at stake.\n\nIn 1992 CMLL head writer Antonio Peña left the company to create his own wrestling promotion Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA; Spanish for \"Assistance, Consulting and Administration\") promotion; Palomeque was one of the many young wrestlers who left CMLL to work for the newly formed AAA. In AAA, his ring personal was changed and he became \"Winners\" (sometimes written Winner's), a fan favorite character (known as a \"Técnico\" in Lucha Libre) who wore a silver bodysuit and mask. Palomeques work as \"Winners\" earned him a match on the very first Triplemanía where he teamed with Super Caló and El Salsero to defeat the team of May Flowers, Rudy Reyna, and Baby Sharon in a Six Man Tag Team match. The following year at Triplemanía II-A he teamed up with Rey Misterio and Rey Misterio, Jr. to defeat the team known as \"Los Destructores\" (Tony Arce, Vulcano, and Rocco Valente). In 1995, Winners participated in a Relevos Suicidas Tag Team match, in which the losing team members have a match of their own, with the loser of that encounter being forced to unmask. Winners team won the match, keeping him from having to defend his mask in a match. Eight days later at Triplemanía III-B, Winners' mask was on the line in a match against Marabunta; Winners defeated Marabunta in a \"Luchas de Apuestas\", Mask vs. Mask match. On June 30, 1995, at Triplemanía III-C, Winners participated in another \"mask vs. mask\" match, his third in three weeks. This time, Winners was not successful, as he lost to Super Caló and was forced to unmask. The loss of the mask did not hurt Winners' popularity, on the contrary it intensified as the hansome Palomeque became even more popular with the female fans. Despite losing his mask to Super Caló the two continued to work together as a team. On June 15, 1996, Winners and Caló teamed up with Rey Misterio, Jr. and Oro, Jr. to defeat the team of Perro Silva, Halloween, Kraken, and Mosco de la Merced at Triplemanía IV-B. A month later, Winners, Caló, La Parka and El Mexicano defeated Jerry Estrada, Fishman, Villano IV, and May Flowers in one of the featured matches of Triplemanía IV-C.\n\nIn January 1997, Palomeque's character was changed from that of the quintessential heroic ladies' man known as \"Winners\", to that of a cheating villain (referred to as a \"Rudo\") known as \"Abismo Negro\". Part of his new routine as Abismo Negro was a flamethrower display, created by using a lighter and an Aerosol spray can. Palomeque would regularly use this during his entrance and on occasion during a match as when he worked as \"Abismo Negro\" character. As part of his Rudo act Palomeque began using the \"Marinete\" — a wrestling move known as a Piledriver where he simulates driving the top of his opponents' head into the mat — the Marinete is \"banned\" Mexican wrestling, which means that it can lead to a disqualification if used during the match. The Marinete became such a signature move for the Abismo Negro character that he earned the nickname \"El Rey del Martinete\" (The King of the Piledriver). He made his debut as Abismo Negro on January 10, 1997, in an Eight Man Tag Team match. Shortly after his debut as Abismo Negro, he made his World Wrestling Federation (WWF) debut on the January 19, 1997, episode of the WWF Free For All pay-per-view event pre–show before the 1997 Royal Rumble. On the telecast, Negro teamed with Heavy Metal and Histeria in a losing effort against the team of Octagón, Blue Demon, Jr., and Tinieblas, Jr. in a six-man tag team match. This match was one of the early results of a working relationship between the WWF and AAA that had been created in late 1996. The relationship saw Negro make an appearance in January against Perro Aguayo, Jr. and two appearances on the WWF's primary television program \"Monday Night Raw\" in March 1997. During his appearances in March, Negro was announced as being part of Los Vipers, a recently created alliance of wrestlers. After March, Negro did not make any more appearances for the WWF.\n\nIn AAA, Cibernético formed \"Los Vipers\" with Negro along with Psicosis (II), Mosco De La Merced, Maniaco and Histeria. Histeria was replaced a few weeks later by Histeria II. In 1998, Negro acquired a \"mascot\": a midget wrestler called Mini Abismo Negro. Abismo, Mini Abismo, and new Vipers member Electroshock were defeated by Octagón, his mascot Octagóncito, and Pentagón in a six-man tag team match at Triplemanía. Los Vipers engaged in several scripted rivalries with other AAA groups, such as the group of masked wrestlers dressed as clowns known as Los Payasos. They also had a long-running rivalry with Los Vatos Locos—consisting of Espiritu, Picudo, Nygma, May Flowers, and Silver Cat during the rivalry—over the Mexican National Atómicos Championship. Los Vipers won the Atómicos titles from Los Vatos on several occasions, but Negro was not part of the teams that won. Palomeque wrestling as Abismo Negro did capture a title of his own when he defeated Pentagón on May 19, 1998, to win the Mexican National Middleweight Championship, a title he held until January 1999.\n\nIn 1999, Los Vipers split into two factions, with Abismo Negro leading a splinter group called \"Los Vipers Extreme\" consisting of Electroshock, Pentagón, Shiima, El Cuervo and Mini Abismo Negro while Cibernético created a group called \"Los Vipers Primera Clase\" (First Class Vipers). After less than two months, the angle was dropped and Los Vipers reunited. Not long after Los Vipers reunited, Cibernético formed a group called Lucha Libre Latina (LLL), a group intent on taking over AAA that was inspired by World Championship Wrestling's New World Order. Los Vipers became a subgroup within LLL, and Negro assumed leadership of Los Vipers. On May 2, 1999, Negro and Electroshock teamed up to defeat Perro Aguayo and Perro Aguayo, Jr. to win the Mexican National Tag Team Championship. Los Vipers held the tag team title for four months before losing it to the team of Haytor and the Panther.\n\nIn 2000, Palomeque participated in a AAA tour of Japan and competed at Triplemanía VIII, where he was on the losing side of an eight-man tag team match main event; Negro teamed with Cibernetico, Shiima Nobunaga and Electro Shock against Octagón, Jushin Thunder Liger, Latin Lover and Cuije. While touring with AAA, Palomeuqe also made an appearance at Michinoku Pro's April 9 Sumo Hall card, where he defeated Oriental. On May 7, Abismo Negro and Electroshock regained the Mexican National Tag Team title by defeating Haytor and the Panther but only held on to the title for two months before losing it to Héctor Garza and Perro Aguayo, Jr.\n\nNegro became one of the driving forces in LLL's feud with AAA owner Antonio Peña and his AAA loyalists. Over the years, Negro feuded with the top técnicos of AAA such as La Parka, Jr., Octagón and Latin Lover. Negro's position as one of AAA's top workers was cemented on March 5, 2000, when he competed in AAA's annual Rey de Reyes tournament. In the opening round, he defeated Dos Caras, Killer and Psicosis II and in the finals, he defeated El Alebrije, Charly Manson and Cibernético to win the 2000 Rey de Reyes tournament. Negro's status as a main eventer caused storyline problems between LLL's leader Cibernético and Abismo Negro, leading to a series of matches between the two to see who should lead Los Vipers. On September 29, 2000, Negro defeated Cibernético in a one on one match at Verano de Escandalo (2000). When the two faced off in a steel cage match at Guerra de Titanes (2000), the match ended without a winner, after which the rivalry between the leader and the deputy leader was put on the back burner. In 2001, Negro almost won Rey de Reyes again, but La Parka, Jr. defeated him in the finals. His string of losses continued at Triplemanía IX, where the LLL team of Abismo Negro, Cibernético, Electroshock and Mascara Maligna lost to Mascara Sagrada, El Alebrije, Octagón and La Parka, Jr. when Negro was forced to submit.\n\nIn 2000 Abismo Negro won the hair of the Panther in \"Lucha del reves\" match, a contest where two masked wrestlers put their hair on the line instead of their mask. On September 7, 2001 Abismo Negro won another Lucha del reves match, defeating El Alebrije. In December 2002, Negro and Mini Abismo Negro made it to the finals of a tournament to crown the first ever AAA Mascot Tag Team Champions but lost to Mascara Sagrada and Mascarita Sagrada. Negro qualified for the Rey de Reyes (2003) final, but La Parka, Jr. once again defeated him. In 2004, LLL was phased out in favor of a new super group known as \"La Legión Extranjera\" or the Foreign Legion in English, which meant that Los Vipers now regularly teamed with foreign wrestlers, especially NWA-TNA performers such as Abyss.\n\nIn 2004, TNA and AAA began a working relationship that saw TNA wrestlers work in Mexico and AAA wrestlers make several appearances on TNA's weekly pay-per-views. Managed by AAA owner Antonio Peña, Palomeque, working as Abismo Negro, along with Héctor Garza, Juventud Guerrera, Mr. Águila, and later Heavy Metal, worked for TNA as Team AAA in the TNA 2004 America's X Cup Tournament. The team made their debut on January 28, 2004, at TNA Weekly pay-per-view event #78, defeating the team of Eric Young, Shark Boy, Matt Stryker and Chad Collyer. In the following weeks, Negro and Team AAA won against Elix Skipper, the team of Jerry Lynn and Sonjay Dutt and finally all of Team USA in a 4 on 4 match to claim the Americas X Cup. Four weeks later Team AAA successfully defended the X Cup against Team Canada, as Abismo Negro and Juventud Guerrera defeated the team of Teddy Hart and Jack Evans to tie the score between the two teams, allowing for a final four-on-four elimination match that Team AAA won.\n\nAbismo Negro and the rest of Team AAA returned for the 2004 World X Cup Tournament where they now competed as \"Team Mexico\". Abismo Negro remained undefeated until April 7, 2004, when his team lost to James Mason and Jason Allgood in one of the first matches of the World X Cup Tournament. Later in the night, Team Mexico defeated Team UK to even the score. The World Cup saw Team Mexico lose to Team USA, Team Canada (Eric Young and Bobby Roode), and Team Japan (Ryuji Hijikata and Mitsu Hirai, Jr.). Team Mexico tied in points with Team USA and Team Canada, which meant that a representative of each team met in an Ultimate X match to determine the winner of the tournament. Héctor Garza represented Mexico, but in the end Team USA's Chris Sabin won the match and the tournament.\n\nAfter the World X Cup tournament ended, Negro returned to AAA full-time taking full charge of Los Vipers. In early 2005, he was once again involved in the final match of that year's Rey de Reyes, but La Parka, Jr. defeated him for the third time. AAA hinted at a possible técnico turn when Negro, along with Psicosis and Mini Psicosis, attacked Cibernético. The two faced off in a cage match, won by Cibernético, but they eventually reconciled their differences once more. At some point after 2005 Abismo Negro won the hair of Stuka, Jr. in a Lucha del reves match. Despite rumors that he was jumping to Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), Negro remained in AAA and was sent on a tour with Pro Wrestling Noah in the spring of 2006. Later in the year, he finally turned técnico and began a sustained storyline with Cibernético and his group La Secta Cibernetica. The on again, off again storyline with Cibernético was put on hold when Cibernético suffered a severe knee injury in late 2006. At some point during 2006, Los Vipers left La Legión due to their \"Anti-Mexican\" philosophy and began fighting La Legión and La Legión's imported wrestlers. At Verano de Escandalo (2006), Negro, Charly Manson, Electroshock and Histeria lost to Team TNA (Homicide, Low Ki, Samoa Joe and A.J. Styles).\n\nIn late 2007, AAA created a ring persona for a new wrestler called Black Abyss; the gimmick featured the same mask and attire as Negro and used a similar wrestling style to Negro as well. Initially, it was believed that this was done because there were rumors of him jumping to CMLL or to cover several no-shows. In 2008, Negro's \"almost winning\" streak at Rey de Reyes continued as he lost in the final to El Zorro. Black Abyss made sure Negro did not win but interfering on Zorro's behalf during the match, furthering the storyline between the two. During the fall of 2008, AAA pushed the storyline further by having Black Abyss \"injure\" Negro with his own trademark move the \"Martinete\". Abismo Negro was scheduled to take part in Triplemanía XVI in a match where he would face Los Vipers (Psicosis, Histeria, Black Abyss and Mr. Niebla) in a cage match, but in the weeks leading up to the show Abismo Negro suffered an injury and the match had to be cancelled, AAA used the attack at Rey de Reyes as a storyline explanation of why the match did not take place. At the 2008 Guerra de Titanes, Negro returned to challenge Los Vipers' Revolution and specifically Black Abyss. Subsequently, the storyline between Negro and Black Abyss seemed to be building to a Luchas de Apuestas fight between the two, with their masks on the line. Both Abismo and Black Abyss were booked in the same four-way elimination match qualifier at the Rey de Reyes (2009) event. Negro was able to eliminate Black Abyss from the match but was in turn eliminated by Latin Lover. Black Abyss still competed under the Black Abyss name, still as a rudo, but seemingly only a couple times on TV since then. Black Abyss has stated his wishes to continue with the character to honor the memory of Abismo Negro, but AAA didn't shown a lot of interest in using it on TV. In October 2010 it was reported that Black Abyss had left AAA.\n\nOn September 27, 2011, AAA announced the start of a competition to find a new Abismo Negro. In the end no one was chosen to take over the Abismo Negro character.\n\nPalomeque was married to a woman named Martha for 15 years and the couple had four children, two girls and two boys. Palomeque's wife has been suffering from breast cancer for a number of years.\n\nHe often appeared on the morning television program \"Vida TV\", in full wrestling gear and persona, billed as Abismo Negro. He usually appeared as a kind of judge for talent contests on the show earning him the nickname \"Fiscal De Hierro de la Televisión\" (the Iron Judge of Television). Palomeque owned and operated \"Gimnasio Abismo Negro\" where he taught both professional wrestling and physical fitness. Graduates of Abismo Negro's wrestling school include Independent wrestling workers El Intocable, Extassis and Mini Cibernético as well as AAA workers Sexy Star and Aero Star. Abismo Negro is a playable character in AAA's first ever video game, \"AAA El Videojuego\". The Abismo Negro character was one of the first characters used to promote the game and show the quality of the graphic rendering.\n\nPalomeque was found dead on March 22, 2009. His body was found in a river near the town of El Rosario, Sinaloa. According to a bus driver who was transporting Palomeque and other passengers to Mexico City on Friday night March 20, Palomeque became agitated, panicked and demanded to be let off the bus despite it being 1:30 in the morning. A text message he sent to his wife after leaving the bus confirms that Palomeque found himself lost on the dark hillside. After receiving the text message, his wife contacted local wrestling promoter Vicente Martinez, who organized a search party. On the morning of March 22, Palomeque was found floating face down in the river. Afterwards, medical expert Jesús Enrique Castro López stated that such an anxiety attack could be steroid related, but Palomeque's alleged steroid abuse has not been confirmed. An autopsy was carried out on March 23, which determined that the cause of death was drowning, and no further investigation into the death is planned. A memorial was held in Mexico City on March 24 for friends and family of Palomeque, many of whom showed up without their masks on, to keep the focus of the event on Palomeque. His body was subsequently cremated, with the ashes taken to Villahermosa to be buried.\n\nOn Saturday March 21, while Palomeque was either lost in the hills or already dead, someone worked as Abismo Negro on an AAA show in Cancun. In the past, the wrestler known as Black Abyss had worked as Abismo Negro when Palomeque failed to show, but this time Black Abyss was not the man behind the mask, as he was on the opposing team that night. Following the discovery of Palomeque's body, the deception in Cancun received national coverage in Mexico and the local promoter responsible for the show, Renán Martínez, was suspended for two years by the Benito Júarez Boxing and Wrestling commission.\n\nOn October 26, 2009 AAA held the \"Torneo Abismo Negro\" in honor of Palomeque, the tournament was a 7-man gauntlet-style match and included a mix of five AAA veterans and two Abismo Negro students. The participants were Cuervo, Black Abyss, Gato Eveready, Kempo Dragon, Joe Lider, Extreme Tiger and Relámpago. Relámpago, Abismo Negro's last student to turn professional, won the match after 48 minutes. The event was not televised and did not become an annual event. During Triplemania XVII there was a moment of silence in memory of Abismo Negro, Antonio Peña and Mitsuharu Misawa (Misawa had died the night before).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3372706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3372706", "title": "Accelerated aging", "text": "Accelerated aging\n\nAccelerated aging is testing that uses aggravated conditions of heat, humidity, oxygen, sunlight, vibration, etc. to speed up the normal aging processes of items. It is used to help determine the long-term effects of expected levels of stress within a shorter time, usually in a laboratory by controlled standard test methods. It is used to estimate the useful lifespan of a product or its shelf life when actual lifespan data is unavailable. This occurs with products that have not existed long enough to have gone through their useful lifespan: for example, a new type of car engine or a new polymer for replacement joints.\n\nPhysical testing or chemical testing is carried out by subjecting the product to \nMechanical parts are run at very high speed, far in excess of what they would receive in normal usage. Polymers are often kept at elevated temperatures, in order to accelerate chemical breakdown. Environmental chambers are often used.\n\nAlso, the device or material under test can be exposed to rapid (but controlled) changes in temperature, humidity, pressure, strain, etc. For example, cycles of heat and cold can simulate the effect of day and night for a few hours or minutes.\n\nAccelerated aging is also used in library and archival preservation science. In this context, a material, usually paper, is subjected to extreme conditions in an effort to speed up the natural aging process. Usually, the extreme conditions consist of elevated temperature, but tests making use of concentrated pollutants or intense light also exist. These tests may be used for several purposes.\n\n\nThere is no single recommended set of conditions at which these tests should be performed. In fact, temperatures from 22 to 160 degrees Celsius, relative humidities from 1% to 100%, and test durations from one hour to 180 days have all been used. ISO 5630-3 recommends accelerated aging at 80 degrees Celsius and 65% relative humidity when using a fixed set of conditions.\n\nBesides variations in the conditions to which the papers are subjected, there are also multiple ways in which the test can be set up. For instance, rather than simply placing single sheets in a climate controlled chamber, the Library of Congress recommends sealing samples in an air-tight glass tube and aging the papers in stacks, which more closely resembles the way in which they are likely to age under normal circumstances, rather than in single sheets.\n\nThe technique of artificially accelerating the deterioration of paper through heat was known by 1899, when it was described by W. Herzberg. Accelerated aging was further refined during the 1920s, with tests using sunlight and elevated temperatures being used to rank the permanence of various papers in the United States and Sweden. In 1929, a frequently used method in which 72 hours at 100 degrees Celsius is considered equivalent to 18–25 years of natural aging was established by R. H. Rasch.\n\nIn the 1950s, researchers began to question the validity of accelerated aging tests which relied on dry heat and a single temperature, pointing out that relative humidity affects the chemical processes which produce paper degradation and that the reactions which cause degradation have different activation energies. This led researchers like Baer and Lindström to advocate accelerated aging techniques using the Arrhenius equation and a realistic relative humidity.\n\nAccelerated aging techniques, particularly those using the Arrhenius equation, have frequently been criticized in recent decades. While some researchers claim that the Arrhenius equation can be used to quantitatively predict the lifespan of tested papers, other researchers disagree. Many argue that this method cannot predict an exact lifespan for the tested papers, but that it can be used to rank papers by permanence. A few researchers claim that even such rankings can be deceptive, and that these types of accelerated aging tests can only be used to determine whether a particular treatment or paper quality has a positive or negative effect on the paper’s permanence.\n\nThere are several reasons for this skepticism. One argument is that entirely different chemical processes take place at higher temperatures than at lower temperatures, which means the accelerated aging process and natural aging process are not parallel. Another is that paper is a “complex system” and the Arrhenius equation only applicable to elementary reactions. Other researchers criticize the ways in which deterioration is measured during these experiments. Some point out that there is no standard point at which a paper is considered unusable for library and archival purposes. Others claim that the degree of correlation between macroscopic, mechanical properties of paper and molecular, chemical deterioration has not been convincingly proven.\n\nIn an effort to improve the quality of accelerated aging tests, some researchers have begun comparing materials which have undergone accelerated aging to materials which have undergone natural aging. The Library of Congress, for instance, began a long-term experiment in 2000 to compare artificially aged materials to materials allowed to undergo natural aging for a hundred years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40124", "title": "Acetic acid bacteria", "text": "Acetic acid bacteria\n\nAcetic acid bacteria (AAB) are a group of Gram-negative bacteria which oxidize sugars or ethanol and produce acetic acid during fermentation. The acetic acid bacteria consist of 10 genera in the family \"Acetobacteraceae\". Several species of acetic acid bacteria are used in industry for production of certain foods and chemicals.\n\nAll acetic acid bacteria are rod-shaped and obligate aerobes.\n\nAcetic acid bacteria are airborne and are ubiquitous in nature. They are actively present in environments where ethanol is being formed as a result of fermentation of sugars. They can be isolated from the nectar of flowers and from damaged fruit. Other good sources are fresh apple cider and unpasteurized beer that has not been filter sterilized. In these liquids, they grow as a surface film due to their aerobic nature and active motility. Fruit flies or vinegar eels are considered as a common vector in propagating acetic acid bacteria.\n\nThe growth of \"Acetobacter\" in wine can be suppressed through effective sanitation, by complete exclusion of air from wine in storage, and by the use of moderate amounts of sulfur dioxide in the wine as a preservative.\n\nVinegar is produced when acetic acid bacteria act on alcoholic beverages such as wine. They are used to perform specific oxidation reactions through processes called “oxidative fermentations”, that creates vinegar as a byproduct. In the biotechnological industry, these bacterias' oxidation mechanism is exploited to produce a number of compounds such as l-ascorbic acid, dihydroxyacetone, gluconic acid, and cellulose.\n\nBesides food industry, some acetic acid bacterias are used as biocatalysts for the industrial production of compounds. They are used as the important biocatalysts for the development of eco-friendly fermentation processes as an alternative to the chemical synthesis.\n\nSome genera, such as \"Acetobacter\", can oxidize ethanol to carbon dioxide and water using Krebs cycle enzymes. Other genera, such as \"Gluconobacter\", do not oxidize ethanol, as they do not have a full set of Krebs cycle enzymes.\n\nAs these bacteria produce acid, they are usually acid-tolerant, growing well below pH 5.0, although the pH optimum for growth is 5.4-6.3.\n\nOne species of \"Acetobacter\", \"Acetobacter xylinum\", is able to synthesize cellulose, something normally done only by plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2452959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2452959", "title": "Ai Maeda (voice actress)", "text": "Ai Maeda (voice actress)\n\n\n\n\nNakagami, Yoshikatsu et al. \"Voice Actress Spotlight\". (June 2007) \"Newtype USA\". pp. 112–113.\n\n"}
{"id": "10987467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10987467", "title": "Alauddin Riayat Shah of Malacca", "text": "Alauddin Riayat Shah of Malacca\n\nSultan Alauddin Riayat Shah ibni Almarhum Sultan Mansur Shah (died 1488) was a sultan of the Malacca Sultanate from 1477 to 1488.\n\nHe was famous for going undercover at night to personally check on the well-being of his people, as well as on the condition of his sultanate itself. On one of these nights he was even reported to have run after a thief himself. He was a very good and religious ruler and is renowned to be a fair king. But his position is envied by his brother, Raja Ahmad (the ruler of Pahang, a region under Malaccan rule), because Raja Ahmad believed that the rulership of Malacca was his right. \n\nSultan Alauddin had many enemies, both within and outside of his court. He had a total of four children, two from each of his two wives, and this has led to his wives squabbling over the heirship to his throne. The sultan's second wife is from Indian Muslim descent. During this period, Sultan Alaudin has been facing problems with the \"mamak\" people, who were beginning to grow in power in comparison to Malays. His new advisor, Bendahara Seri Maharaja (equivalent to the modern-day prime minister) was also of \"mamak\" blood. \n\nAfter 11 years on the throne, Sultan Alauddin was reported in history to have died of mysterious causes. Other accounts suggest that he was poisoned in a conspiracy primarily involving Raja Ahmad, Bendahara Seri Maharaja and Tun Senaja, his second wife. His son, Raja Mahmud and his brother-in-law Raja Merlang (Tun Senaja's brother) was also thought to be involved. \n\nAfter his demise, the rulership went to Raja Mahmud, whom he fathered with his Tun Senaja, and denying Raja Munawar, Sultan Alaudin's firstborn son with his first wife Raja Fatimah, who was widely thought to be the true successor to the throne. In any case, the \"mamak\" bloodline finally gained control over the Malaccan Empire. However, it was not long before the Portuguese invasion came in 1511, the aftermath of which ended the Sultanate rule over the Malacca.\n\nToday, Sultan Alauddin Riayat Shah's tomb can be found situated in Pagoh, Johor.\n"}
{"id": "2498677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498677", "title": "Ali II of Yejju", "text": "Ali II of Yejju\n\nAli II of Yejju (c. 1819 – c. 1866) was a Ras of Begemder and Enderase (Regent) of the Emperor of Ethiopia. He was the son of Alula of Yejju (sometime governor of Damot and then of Gojjam) and Menen Liben Amede (later Empress of Ethiopia through her marriage to Emperor Yohannes III) and nephew of Gugsa of Yejju.\n\nIn July 1831, after the death of his cousin, Ras Dori, Ali was appointed Ruler of Begemder and Imperial Regent at the age of 12 in a meeting of the chief nobles of the Yejju at the dynastic capital of Debre Tabor. As Ali was a minor, a council of regents was appointed from these nobles. However, his mother, Menen, soon came to control this council and exerted much influence over political decisions for the next decade.\n\nRas Ali was officially a Christian but his contemporaries doubted the sincerity of his faith and suspected that he was a secret Muslim. Some modern scholars consider him as indifferent to religion as he was to the problems of ruling his portion of Ethiopia, although Trimingham observes that he attempted to revive the cult of Ahmad Gragn by requiring pilgrimages to his tomb. In any case, the morale of the Ethiopian Church reached its lowest point in the 1840s and 1850s.\n\nFor much his reign Ras Ali was constantly at war, either putting down rebellions in his core territories, or defending his territory from rival lords. In one of these continual campaigns, Ras Ali II plundered the imperial capital, Gondar, in 1838.\n\nRas Ali made Sahle Dengel Emperor in 1832, but the clergy of Azazo disapproved of the new Emperor's religious beliefs, and convinced Ras Ali to remove him. Sahle Dengel was sent to Zengaj, and Ras Ali recalled Gebre Krestos from Mitraha, an island in Lake Tana, and restored him as Emperor. However, Gebre Krestos died after three months, and Sahle Dengel met with Ras Ali in the village of Tsagur where he convinced Ras Ali to restore him to the throne once again (October, 1832).\n\nRas Ali married Hirut, the daughter of Dejazmach Wube Haile Maryam, warlord of Semien and of Tigray; when he placed her in the church of Mahdere Maryam for her safety before the Battle of Debre Tabor (6 February 1842), his opponents violated the refuge of the church and kidnapped her. Their only daughter Tewabech was married 1848 to Kassa Hailu of Qwara, who in 1854 proclaimed himself a Negus. They had no surviving issue.\n\nAlthough his reign was punctuated by recurrent rebellions, Ali managed to keep all of the major lords subject to his rule until the final years. Shiferaw Bekele asserts that \"it is to his credit\" that there were only two major wars while he was \"Ras Bewodded\": the Battle of Debre Tabor in 1842, and Kassa Hailu's successful offensive in 1852/1853.\n\nFuture events were foreshadowed in October, 1846, when Kassa Hailu defeated detachments of Empress Menen's army at two separate battles in Dembiya; at the time, \"Ras\" Ali was away in Gojjam attempting to subdue the province's warlord, Birru Goshu, and unable to assist his mother. Kassa defeated the army of Empress Menen the following year on 18 June at Iloha, and took both Menen and her husband the former Emperor Yohannes III captive, forcing Ras Ali to negotiate their release. After three months, in return for making Kassa dejazmach over Dembiya, north of Lake Tana, the Empress and her powerless husband were released. Dejazmach Kassa later reconciled himself to \"Ras\" Ali in 1849, and Kassa remained loyal to Ali for the next three years.\n\nHowever, the relationship between the two eventually deteriorated. Following a series of stunning victories by Kassa, Ali II was decisively defeated by his son-in-law \"Dejazmach\" Kassa (who later assumed the throne name of Tewodros II) in the Battle of Ayshal on 29 June 1853, and he lost both the regentship and his territories. At first Ali fled to safety at a local church, then a few days later fled to the territories of his kinsmen in Wollo province, where he disappeared to history. Sven Rubenson states that he advised Queen Worqitu of the Wollo Oromo to avoid a major battle with Tewodros when the Emperor marched through Wollo on his campaign against Shewa in 1855. Both Proutky and Trimingham give the date of 1866 for his death, without further details.\n"}
{"id": "10664129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10664129", "title": "Amniotic band constriction", "text": "Amniotic band constriction\n\nAmniotic band constriction (also known as \"amniotic band syndrome\", \"ADAM complex\", \"Amniotic band sequence\", \"Congenital constriction bands\" and \"Pseudoainhum\") is a congenital disorder caused by entrapment of fetal parts (usually a limb or digits) in fibrous amniotic bands while in utero.\n\nThe constriction of appendages by amniotic bands may result in:\n\n\nA strong relationship between ABS and clubfoot (also called \"talipes\") exists. A 31.5% of associated clubfoot deformity and ABS can be correlated with 20% occurring bilaterally. Other abnormalities found with ABS include: clubhands, cleft lip, and/or cleft palate, and hemangioma.\n\nDecreased fetal movement could be a sign of a serious problem which may include ABS. It is rare but possible for the membrane to become wrapped around the placenta or the neck of the baby in the womb causing strangulation and death.\n\nTo explain the cause of ABS, there are two main theories.\n\nThe amniotic band theory is that ABS occurs due to a partial rupture of the amniotic sac. This rupture involves only the amnion; the chorion remains intact. Fibrous bands of the ruptured amnion float in the amniotic fluid and can encircle and trap some part of the fetus. Later, as the fetus grows but the bands do not, the bands become constricting. This constriction reduces blood circulation, hence causes congenital abnormalities. In some cases a complete \"natural\" amputation of a digit(s) or limb may occur before birth or the digit(s) or limbs may be necrotic (dead) and require surgical amputation following birth.\n\nThe vascular disruption theory:\nBecause the constricting mechanism of the amniotic band theory does not explain the high incidence of cleft palate and other forms of cleft defects occurring together with ABS, this co-occurrence suggests an \"intrinsic\" defect of the blood circulation.\n\nAmniotic band syndrome is often difficult to detect before birth as the individual strands are small and hard to see on ultrasound. Often the bands are detected indirectly because of the constrictions and swelling upon limbs, digits, etc. Misdiagnosis is also common, so if there are any signs of amniotic bands, further detailed ultrasound tests should be done to assess the severity. 3D ultrasound and MRI can be used for more detailed and accurate diagnosis of bands and the resulting damage/danger to the fetus.\nAmniotic band syndrome is considered an accidental event and it does not appear to be genetic or hereditary, so the likelihood of it occurring in another pregnancy is remote. The cause of amnion tearing is unknown and as such there are no known preventative measures.\n\nIn rare cases, if diagnosed in utero, fetal surgery may be considered to save a limb which is in danger of amputation or other deformity. This typically would not be attempted if neither vital organs nor the umbilical cord were affected. This operation has been successfully performed on fetuses as young as 22 weeks. The surgery took place at Melbourne's Monash Medical Centre in Australia and is believed to be the earliest surgery of its type, as surgeons usually hold off on operating until the woman is in week 28 of gestation. There are also several facilities in the United States that have performed successful amniotic band release surgery.\n\nTreatment usually occurs after birth and where plastic and reconstructive surgery is considered to treat the resulting deformity. Plastic surgery ranges from simple to complex depending on the extent of the deformity. Physical and occupational therapy may be needed long term.\n\nProsthetics may help some ABS sufferers to live more functional lives. The price and complexity of these prosthetics vary dramatically, but advances in 3-D printing have helped to increase the availability of artificial fingers while reducing their cost of production.\n\nThe prognosis depends on the location and severity of the constricting bands. Every case is different and multiple bands may be entangled around the fetus.\n\nBands which wrap around fingers and toes can result in syndactyly or amputations of the digits. In other instances, bands can wrap around limbs causing restriction of movement resulting in clubbed feet. In more severe cases, the bands can constrict the limb causing decreased blood supply and amputation. Amniotic bands can also sometimes attach to the face or neck causing deformities such as cleft lip and palate. If the bands become wrapped around the head or umbilical cord it can be life-threatening for the fetus.\n\nThe number of cases of miscarriage that can be attributed to ABS is unknown, although it has been reported that it may be the cause of 178 in 10,000 miscarriages.\n\nAmniotic banding affects approximately 1 in 1,200 live births. It is also believed to be the cause of 178 in 10,000 miscarriages. Up to 50% of cases have other congenital anomalies including cleft lip, cleft palate, and clubfoot deformity. Hand and finger anomalies occur in up to 80%.\n\nAmong the more notable people living with ABS are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11917309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11917309", "title": "Battle at Kruger", "text": "Battle at Kruger\n\nBattle at Kruger is an eight-minute amateur wildlife video that depicts a confrontation between a herd of Cape buffalo, a small group of young lions from a pride, and one crocodile. The video was shot in September 2004 at the Transport Dam watering hole in Kruger National Park, South Africa, during a safari guided by Frank Watts. It was filmed by videographer David Budzinski and photographer Jason Schlosberg.\n\nSince being posted on YouTube on 3 May 2007, \"Battle at Kruger\" has received 80 million views as of November 2018 and has become a viral video sensation. It was widely praised for its dramatic depiction of wildlife on the African savannah. It has since become one of YouTube's most popular nature videos, and has won the Best Eyewitness Video in the 2nd Annual YouTube Video Awards. The video was also the subject of an article in the 25 June 2007 issue of \"Time\" magazine, and was featured in the first episode of ABC News' \"i-Caught\", which aired on 7 August 2007. A National Geographic documentary on the video debuted on the National Geographic Channel on 11 May 2008.\n\nTaken from a small game viewer vehicle on the opposite side of the watering hole with a digital camcorder, the video begins with the herd of African buffalos approaching the water, unaware that a small group of female lions are lying nearby. The lioness crouches as the herd nears; it is uncertain if the lioness attacks first, or the lead buffalo becomes startled and turns to run, but the buffalos flee and the lions charge and disperse the herd, with the lioness picking off a buffalo calf, both of them falling into the water. As the lions try to drag the buffalo out of the water, the calf is grabbed by a crocodile, who fights for it in a brief tug of war before giving up and leaving it to the lions. The lions lie down and prepare to feast, but the full buffalo herd approach and surround the lions. One of the lions is tossed into the air by a charging buffalo and chased away. The remaining lions are subsequently scattered and chased away soon after the initial engagement, and the baby buffalo escapes into the herd while a few lions remain surrounded by the buffalos. The buffalos then proceed to aggressively chase the remaining lions away.\n\nTwo veterinarians and animal behaviorists interviewed by \"Time\" assert that the behavior exhibited by the buffalo is not unusual. Dr. Sue McDonnell of the University of Pennsylvania (School of Veterinary Medicine) said of the video:\n\"The larger herd is broken down into smaller harems, with a dominant male and many females and their babies. The crocodile attacked the baby and the lion If a youngster is threatened, both the harem males and bachelor males—which usually fight with one another—will get together to try to rescue it.\"\nIt is, however, rare for such events to be captured on film even by professional wildlife photographers. Indeed, Dereck Joubert, a photographer and writer for \"National Geographic\" said of the video:\n\"There is no doubt at all that the tourist who shot that scene ... was unbelievably lucky. I mean, we would've considered ourselves lucky to have had that whole scene happen in front of us.\"\n"}
{"id": "36251829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36251829", "title": "Bed-making", "text": "Bed-making\n\nBed-making is the act of arranging the bedsheets and other bedding on a bed, to prepare it for use. It is a household chore, but is also performed in establishments including hospitals, hotels, and military or educational residences. Bed-making is also a common childhood chore. \n\nBeds must sometimes be made to exacting standards, demanded of nurses or military personnel. In a hospital or other health-care environment, beds must sometimes be made while occupied by a patient. Specialised techniques are taught to healthcare staff to enable beds to be made efficiently with due care for the patient. \n\nThere are different bed-making techniques, such as \"hospital corners\" and \"mitred corners\". Military recruits are often taught how to make a neat and tidy bed with hospital corners. Military personnel are expected to fold the bed very tightly, in some cases so that a coin can bounce off of it.\n\nSince 2012, many self-making beds which automatically rearrange the bedding are in development and in use. New innovations in bedding have arisen in recent years (beginning in 2014) that have further simplified bed-making—some claiming that zipper beds can be made in under 10 seconds.\n\nGuinness World Records reports that the record time for two people to make a bed \"with one blanket, two sheets, an undersheet, an uncased pillow, one pillowcase, one counterpane and hospital corners\" is 14.0 seconds. This feat was achieved by two nurses from the Royal Masonic Hospital in London in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "20151345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20151345", "title": "Brian David Ellis", "text": "Brian David Ellis\n\nBrian Ellis (born 1929) is an Emeritus Professor in the philosophy department at La Trobe University in Victoria, Australia, and Professional Fellow in philosophy at the University of Melbourne. He was the Editor of the \"Australasian Journal of Philosophy\" for twelve years. He is one of the major proponents of the New Essentialist school of philosophy of science (philosophy of nature).\n\nThe new essentialism has evolved from these beginnings and can reasonably claim to be a comprehensive philosophy of nature. Philosophers around the world, including; Sydney Shoemaker, Charles Martin, George Molnar, George Bealer, John Bigelow, Caroline Lierse, Evan Fales, Crawford Elder, Nicholas Maxwell, Nancy Cartwright and John Heil, have contributed to in various ways to its development. The new essentialism is not just a personal view, but an emerging metaphysical perspective that is the culmination of many different attempts to arrive at a satisfactory post-Humean philosophy of nature.\n\nHowever, this list of claimed allies has been disputed by Stephen Mumford, at least with regard to Shoemaker, Martin, Molnar, Heil and Cartwright. \n\n“Causal Powers and Categorical Properties”\n\nIn this chapter of \"The Metaphysics of Powers: Their Grounding and Their Manifestations,\" Ellis argues that categorical properties and causal powers are distinct from one another, and that categorical properties are not dispositional, but quiddities.  Quidditism accounts for identity of a property based only on what it \"is\" rather than what it disposes its bearer to do. Although categorical properties do not necessarily dispose their bearers to do anything, they do determine where active properties of things may exist, or be distributed, and thus where the effects of such activities can be observed.   He gives a detailed logical account of how a causal power can be defined. Ellis defines a causal power as a quantitative property that positions its’ bearer in specific circumstances take part in a physical causal process with a certain outcome.  Such powers are to either act or resist change within the bearer (e.g. temperature, elasticity). \n\nAll causal powers must meet two criteria.  First, they must all have contingent locations, since they have to act from somewhere.  Second, they all must have laws of action outlining their nature.  Such laws reference both the location of the object that possesses the power, as well as the location of things it interacts with. Locations, however, are impotent. Ellis argues that neither locations nor categorical properties such as shape and size are causal powers, yet they can make a difference in outcomes.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31921549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31921549", "title": "Burmah (ship)", "text": "Burmah (ship)\n\nThe Burmah was a passenger ship, which disappeared \"en route\" from England to New Zealand in 1859 or 1860.\n\nThe \"Burmah\" was chartered by Willis, Gann & Co. The ship left London for New Zealand on 30 August 1859. \"Burmah\" was seen by the ship \"Regina\" on 17 November, about 14 days sailing distance west of New Zealand, at . The \"Regina\" passed icebergs the day after it passed \"Burmah\". \"Burmah\" never arrived at New Zealand and was officially declared lost by Lloyds on 6 May 1860.\n\n\"Burmah\" was carrying passengers and an assortment of breeding livestock.\n\nThe novelist Samuel Butler was booked to travel on the \"Burmah\" to New Zealand, but he changed to a different ship, the \"Roman Emperor\" at the last moment, and therefore avoided the wreck of the \"Burmah\".\n"}
{"id": "34877794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34877794", "title": "Computational Statistics &amp; Data Analysis", "text": "Computational Statistics &amp; Data Analysis\n\nComputational Statistics & Data Analysis is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on and applications of computational statistics and data analysis. The journal was established in 1983 and is the official journal of the International Association for Statistical Computing, a section of the International Statistical Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "13497888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13497888", "title": "Cyborg Superman", "text": "Cyborg Superman\n\nCyborg Superman is a persona that has been used by two fictional characters in the DC Universe, both of which are supervillains that appear in comic books published by DC Comics.\n\nHank Henshaw was an astronaut at NASA until a solar flare hit his space shuttle during an experiment in space, damaging the ship and the crew. Henshaw and the crew found that their bodies had begun to mutate and, after returning to Earth, Henshaw's entire crew (including his wife) eventually committed suicide. After learning that Superman had thrown the Eradicator into the sun in a battle during the space shuttle experiment, Henshaw blamed Superman for the solar flare and the accident. Before his body completely disintegrated due to the radiation exposure, Henshaw was able to save his consciousness. Using NASA communications equipment, Henshaw beamed his mind into the birthing matrix which had carried Superman from Krypton to Earth as an infant. He created a small exploration craft from the birthing matrix and departed into outer space alone. Becoming increasingly mentally unstable, Henshaw used Superman's birthing matrix to create a body identical to Superman's, albeit with cybernetic parts. He returned to Earth to kill Superman, only to discover that Superman had already died during Henshaw's absence. Following Superman's eventual resurrection, Henshaw would not only become a recurring adversary of Superman but of Green Lantern as well. Hank Henshaw became a member of the Sinestro Corps during the Sinestro Corps War.\n\nZor-El is the younger brother of Jor-El, husband of Alura, father of Supergirl, and paternal uncle of Superman. Originally, he escaped from Krypton's destruction along with the other inhabitants of Argo City. In September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Supergirl discovers an amnesiac Cyborg Superman living on the planet I'noxia. This turns out to be Zor-El, who was rescued from Krypton's destruction by Brainiac and reconfigured as a half-man half-machine to be his scout looking for stronger species in the universe.\n\nAs Cyborg Superman, Hank Henshaw possesses the ability to control and reanimate various machines. Due to his experience with Superman's birth matrix, Henshaw now has all of Superman's powers and genetic tissue identical to the Man of Steel's. As a member of the Sinestro Corps, Henshaw has access to a power ring fueled by fear energy that allows him to create any construct he can imagine.\n\nAs Cyborg Superman, Zor-El is cybernetically enhanced with the ability to fly, fire powerful heat rays from his cybernetic eye, and project electricity from his body. Zor-El's cybernetic arm can shape shift into whatever he desires, limited only by the technology available to him at the given moment that he chooses to use this ability. Zor-El is virtually indestructible, and also has super-speed and super-strength.\n\n\n\n\nBritish wunderkind radio producer Dirk Maggs produced a Superman radio series for BBC Radio 5 in the 1990s. When the \"Death of Superman\" story arc happened in the comics, Maggs presented a very faithful, though much pared down, version of the tale which featured Stuart Milligan as Clark Kent/Superman, Lorelei King as Lois Lane, and William Hootkins as Lex Luthor. Versatile American actor Kerry Shale was cast both as the villainous Hank Henshaw and as Superboy. The story arc was packaged for sale on cassette and CD as \"\" in the UK and as \"Superman Lives!\" in the USA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146981", "title": "David Oistrakh", "text": "David Oistrakh\n\nDavid Fyodorovich Oistrakh ( – 24 October 1974), PAU, was a renowned Soviet classical violinist and violist.\n\nOistrakh collaborated with major orchestras and musicians from many parts of the world, including the Soviet Union, Europe, and the United States, and was the dedicatee of numerous violin works, including both of Dmitri Shostakovich's violin concerti, and the violin concerto by Aram Khachaturian. He is considered one of the preeminent violinists of the 20th century.\n\nHe was born in the cosmopolitan city of Odessa, Ukraine (then part of the Russian Empire) into a Jewish family. His father was David Kolker and his mother was Isabella Beyle (née Stepanovsky), who later on married Fishl Oistrakh. At the age of five, young Oistrakh began his studies of violin and viola as a pupil of Pyotr Stolyarsky. In his studies with Stolyarsky he became very good friends with Iosif Brodsky, Nathan Milstein and other great violinists with whom he collaborated numerous times after achieving fame since their beginnings as fellow students at Stolyarsky School. \n\nIn 1914, at the age of six, Oistrakh performed his debut concert. He entered the Odessa Conservatory in 1923, where he studied until his graduation in 1926. In the Conservatory he also studied harmony with composer Mykola Vilinsky. His 1926 graduation concert consisted of Bach's Chaconne, Tartini's Devil's Trill Sonata, Rubinstein's Viola Sonata, and Prokofiev's Violin Concerto No. 1 in D major. In 1927, Oistrakh appeared as soloist playing the Glazunov Violin Concerto under the composer's own baton in Kiev, Ukraine — a concert which earned him an invitation to play the Tchaikovsky Violin Concerto in Leningrad with the Philharmonic Orchestra under Nikolai Malko the following year.\n\nIn 1927, Oistrakh relocated to Moscow, where he gave his first recital and met his future wife: pianist Tamara Rotareva (1906–1976). They were married a year later, and had one child, Igor Oistrakh, who was born in 1931. Igor Oistrakh would follow his father's path as a violinist, and eventually performed and recorded side-by-side with his father, including Bach's Double Concerto, which they first recorded in 1951, and Mozart's Sinfonia Concertante. In at least one of the recordings of Mozart's Sinfonia Concertante, Igor Oistrakh played violin, while David Oistrakh played viola.\n\nFrom 1934 onwards, David Oistrakh held a position teaching at the Moscow Conservatory, and was later made professor in 1939. Some of his colleagues while teaching at the Moscow Conservatory included Yuri Yankelevich and Boris Goldstein. Oistrakh taught Oleg Kagan, Emmy Verhey, Gidon Kremer, Yulia Brodskaya (Julia Verba), Zoya Petrosyan, Victor Danchenko, Victor Pikaizen, Cyrus Forough, Olga Parhomenko, and his son Igor Oistrakh. In the 1950s, David Oistrakh invited Yulia Brodskaya to be his assistant in teaching solo and chamber music and Rosa Fine as his assistant for solo students. \n\nFrom 1940 to 1963, Oistrakh performed extensively in a trio that also included the cellist Sviatoslav Knushevitsky and the pianist Lev Oborin. It was sometimes called the 'Oistrakh Trio.' Oistrakh collaborated extensively with Oborin, as well as Jacques Thibaud, a French violinist.\n\nDuring World War II, he was active in the Soviet Union, premiering new concerti by Nikolai Miaskovsky and Khachaturian as well as two sonatas by his friend Sergei Prokofiev. He was also awarded the Stalin Prize in 1942. The final years of the war saw the blossoming of a friendship with Shostakovich, which would lead to the two violin concertos and the sonata, all of which were to be premiered by and become firmly associated with Oistrakh in the following years. Oistrakh's career was set from this point, although the Soviet Union was \"protective\" of its people and refused to let him perform abroad. He continued to teach in the Moscow Conservatory, but when Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union, he went to the front lines, playing for soldiers and factory workers under intensely difficult conditions. Arguably one of the most heroic acts in his life was a performance of Tchaikovsky's Violin Concerto to the end in the central music hall during the Battle of Stalingrad in the winter of 1942 while central Stalingrad was being massively bombed by the German forces. However, other sources indicate that Oistrakh performed in Leningrad that winter. Whether Oistrakh performed in Stalingrad is unconfirmed.\n\nOistrakh was allowed to travel after the end of the war. He traveled to the countries in the Soviet bloc and even to the West. His first foreign engagement was to appear at the newly founded \"Prague Spring\" Festival where he was met with enormous success. In 1949 he gave his first concert in the West – in Helsinki. In 1951, he appeared at the \"Maggio Musicale\" Festival in Florence, in 1952 he was in East Germany for the Beethoven celebrations, France in 1953, Britain in 1954, and eventually, in 1955, he was allowed to tour the United States. By 1959, he was beginning to establish a second career as a conductor, and in 1960 he was awarded the coveted Lenin Prize. His Moscow conducting debut followed in 1962, and by 1967 he had established a partnership with the celebrated Soviet pianist Sviatoslav Richter.\n\n1968 saw wide celebrations for the violinist's sixtieth birthday, which included a celebratory performance in the Great Hall of Moscow Conservatory of the Tchaikovsky concerto, one of his favourite works, under the baton of Gennady Rozhdestvensky. Oistrakh was now seen as one of the great violinists of his time, among such luminaries as Romania's George Enescu and Lithuanian-born Jascha Heifetz.\n\nOistrakh suffered a heart attack as early as 1964. He survived and continued to work at a furious pace. He had already become one of the principal cultural ambassadors for the Soviet Union to the West in live concerts and recordings. After conducting a cycle of Brahms with the Concertgebouw Orchestra, he died from another heart attack in Amsterdam in 1974. His remains were returned to Moscow, where he was interred in Novodevichy Cemetery.\n\nOistrakh received many awards and distinctions. Within the Soviet Union, David Oistrakh was awarded the Stalin Prize in 1943, the title of People's Artist of the USSR in 1953, and the Lenin Prize in 1960. He also won the 1935 Soviet Union Competition. Several reputable works from the standard violin repertoire are dedicated to Oistrakh, including a concerto by Khachaturian, two concerti by Shostakovich, and several other pieces.\n\nOistrakh's fame and success were not limited to the Soviet Union: he placed second at the Henryk Wieniawski Violin Competition in Warsaw, after 16-year-old prodigy Ginette Neveu, and further improved upon that by winning the grand prize in the Queen Elisabeth Competition in Brussels.\n\nAdditionally, the asteroid 42516 Oistrach is named in honour of him and his son, the violinist Igor Oistrakh.\n\nDavid Oistrakh is known to have played at least seven Stradivarius violins owned by the Soviet Union. He initially selected the 1702 Conte di Fontana Stradivarius, which he played for 10 years before exchanging it for the 1705 Marsick Stradivarius in June 1966, which he played until his death.\n\nDavid Oistrakh used bows by Albert Nürnberger and Andre Richaume throughout his life.\nUp until 1957, he used a Nürnberger bow.\n\"The Andre Richaume bow bought by his son Igor Oistrakh in 1957 had filled David with such enthusiasm that Igor made a gift of it.\"\nOistrakh had remarked that this (Richaume) bow gave him great satisfaction, so much so that when in Paris, he had to meet Richaume in person.\n\n\n\nThere is a yearly music festival, \"The David Oistrakh Festival,\" from late August to October, in Estonia. \nOistrakh also makes two very brief appearances as a conductor in Depeche Mode's People are People music video.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61098", "title": "Ethnic cleansing", "text": "Ethnic cleansing\n\nEthnic cleansing is the systematic forced removal of ethnic or racial groups from a given territory by a more powerful ethnic group, often with the intent of making it ethnically homogeneous. The forces applied may be various forms of forced migration (deportation, population transfer), intimidation, as well as genocide and genocidal rape.\n\nEthnic cleansing is usually accompanied with efforts to remove physical and cultural evidence of the targeted group in the territory through the destruction of homes, social centers, farms, and infrastructure, and by the desecration of monuments, cemeteries, and places of worship.\n\nInitially used by the perpetrators during the Yugoslav Wars and cited in this context as a euphemism akin to that of Nazi Germany's \"Final Solution\", by the 1990s, the term gained widespread acceptance due to journalism and the media's heightened use of the term in its generic meaning.\n\nAn antecedent to the term is the Greek word \"andrapodismos\" (; lit. \"enslavement\"), which was used in ancient texts to describe atrocities that accompanied Alexander the Great's conquest of Thebes in 335 BC. In the early 1900s, regional variants of the term could be found among the Czechs \"(očista)\", the Poles \"(oczyszczanie)\", the French \"(épuration)\" and the Germans \"(Säuberung)\". A 1913 Carnegie Endowment report condemning the actions of all participants in the Balkan Wars contained various new terms to describe brutalities committed toward ethnic groups.\nDuring World War II, the euphemism \"čišćenje terena\" (\"cleansing the terrain\") was used by the Croatian Ustaše to describe military actions in which non-Croats were purposely killed or otherwise uprooted from their homes. Viktor Gutić, a senior Ustaše leader, was one of the first Croatian nationalists on record to use the term as a euphemism for committing atrocities against Serbs. The term was later used in the internal memorandums of Serbian Chetniks in reference to a number of retaliatory massacres they committed against Bosniaks and Croats between 1941 and 1945. The Russian phrase очистка границ (\"ochistka granits\"; lit. \"cleansing of borders\") was used in Soviet documents of the early 1930s to refer to the forced resettlement of Polish people from the border zone in the Byelorussian and Ukrainian SSRs. This process was repeated on an even larger scale in 1939–41, involving many other groups suspected of disloyalty towards the Soviet Union. During The Holocaust, Nazi Germany pursued a policy of ensuring that Europe was \"cleansed of Jews\" \"(Judenrein)\". \n\nIn its complete form, the term appeared for the first time in the Romanian language (\"purificare etnică\") in an address by Vice Prime Minister Mihai Antonescu to cabinet members in July 1941. After the beginning of the invasion of the USSR, he concluded: “I do not know when the Romanians will have such chance for ethnic cleansing.\" In the 1980s, the Soviets used the term \"ethnic cleansing\" to describe the inter-ethnic violence in Nagorno-Karabakh. At around the same time, the Yugoslav media used it to describe what they alleged was an Albanian nationalist plot to force all Serbs to leave Kosovo. It was widely popularized by the Western media during the Bosnian War (1992–95). The first recorded mention of its use in the Western media can be traced back to an article in \"The New York Times\" dated 15 April 1992, in a quote by an anonymous Western diplomat.\n\nSynonyms include \"ethnic purification\".\n\nThe Final Report of the Commission of Experts established pursuant to Security Council Resolution 780 defined ethnic cleansing as \"a purposeful policy designed by one ethnic or religious group to remove by violent and terror-inspiring means the civilian population of another ethnic or religious group from certain geographic areas\". In its previous, first interim report it noted, \"[b]ased on the many reports describing the policy and practices conducted in the former Yugoslavia, [that] 'ethnic cleansing' has been carried out by means of murder, torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, extra-judicial executions, rape and sexual assaults, confinement of civilian population in ghetto areas, forcible removal, displacement and deportation of civilian population, deliberate military attacks or threats of attacks on civilians and civilian areas, and wanton destruction of property. Those practices constitute crimes against humanity and can be assimilated to specific war crimes. Furthermore, such acts could also fall within the meaning of the Genocide Convention.\"\n\nThe official United Nations definition of ethnic cleansing is \"rendering an area ethnically homogeneous by using force or intimidation to remove from a given area persons of another ethnic or religious group\".\n\nAs a category, ethnic cleansing encompasses a continuum or spectrum of policies. In the words of Andrew Bell-Fialkoff:[E]thnic cleansing [...] defies easy definition. At one end it is virtually indistinguishable from forced emigration and population exchange while at the other it merges with deportation and genocide. At the most general level, however, ethnic cleansing can be understood as the expulsion of a population from a given territory\".\n\nTerry Martin has defined ethnic cleansing as \"the forcible removal of an ethnically defined population from a given territory\" and as \"occupying the central part of a continuum between genocide on one end and nonviolent pressured ethnic emigration on the other end\".\n\nIn reviewing the International Court of Justice (ICJ) Bosnian Genocide Case in the judgement of Jorgic v. Germany on July 12, 2007 the European Court of Human Rights quoted from the ICJ ruling on the \"Bosnian Genocide Case\" to draw a distinction between \"ethnic cleansing\" and \"genocide\":\n\nThere is no international treaty that specifies a specific crime of ethnic cleansing. However, ethnic cleansing in the broad sense—the forcible deportation of a population—is defined as a crime against humanity under the statutes of both International Criminal Court (ICC) and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY). The gross human-rights violations integral to stricter definitions of ethnic cleansing are treated as separate crimes falling under public international law of crimes against humanity and in certain circumstances genocide.\n\nThere are however situations, such as the expulsion of Germans after World War II, where ethnic cleansing has taken place without legal redress (see \"Preussische Treuhand\" v. Poland). Timothy V. Waters argues therefore that similar ethnic cleansing could go unpunished in the future.\n\nAcademic discourse considers both genocide and ethnic cleansing to exist in a spectrum of assaults on nations or religio-ethnic groups. Ethnic cleansing is similar to forced deportation or population transfer whereas genocide is the intentional murder of part or all of a particular ethnic, racial, religious, or national group. While ethnic cleansing and genocide may share the same goal and the acts used to perpetrate both crimes may often resemble each other, ethnic cleansing is intended to displace a persecuted population from a given territory, while genocide is intended to destroy a population. \n\nSome academics consider genocide as a subset of \"murderous ethnic cleansing\". Thus, these concepts are different, but related, as Norman Naimark writes: \"literally and figuratively, ethnic cleansing bleeds into genocide, as mass murder is committed in order to rid the land of a people\". William Schabas adds, \"Ethnic cleansing is also a warning sign of genocide to come. Genocide is the last resort of the frustrated ethnic cleanser.\"\n\nIn 1946 Königsberg was renamed Kaliningrad. The survivors of the German population were forcibly expelled and the city was repopulated with Soviet citizens.\n\nIn the 1990s Bosnian war, ethnic cleansing was a common phenomenon. It typically entailed intimidation, forced expulsion and/or killing of the undesired ethnic group, as well as the destruction or removal of key physical and cultural elements. These included places of worship, cemeteries, works of art and historic buildings. According to numerous ICTY verdicts, both Serb and Croat forces performed ethnic cleansing of their intended territories in order to create ethnically pure states (Republika Srpska and Herzeg-Bosnia). Serb forces were also judged to have committed genocide in Srebrenica and Zepa at the end of the war.\n\nBased on the evidence of numerous attacks by Croat forces against Bosnian Muslims (Bosniaks), the ICTY Trial Chamber concluded in the \"Kordić and Čerkez case\" that by April 1993, the Croat leadership from Bosnia and Herzegovina had a designated plan to ethnically cleanse Bosniaks from the Lašva Valley in Central Bosnia. Dario Kordić, the local political leader, was found to be the instigator of this plan.\n\nIn the same year (1993), ethnic cleansing was also occurring in another country. During the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict, the armed Abkhaz separatist insurgency implemented a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the large population of ethnic Georgians. This was actually a case of trying to drive out a majority, rather than a minority, since Georgians were the single largest ethnic group in pre-war Abkhazia, with a 45.7% plurality as of 1989. As a result of this deliberate campaign by the Abkhaz separatists, more than 250,000 ethnic Georgians were forced to flee, and approximately 30,000 people were killed during separate incidents involving massacres and expulsions (see Ethnic cleansing of Georgians in Abkhazia). This was recognized as ethnic cleansing by Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe conventions, and was also mentioned in UN General Assembly Resolution GA/10708.\n\nAs a tactic, ethnic cleansing has a number of systemic impacts. It enables a force to eliminate civilian support for resistance by eliminating the civilians—recognizing Mao Zedong's dictum that guerrillas among a civilian population are fish in water, it removes the fish by draining the water. When enforced as part of a political settlement, as happened with the forced resettlement of ethnic Germans to the new Germany after 1945, it can contribute to long-term stability. Some individuals of the large German population in Czechoslovakia and prewar Poland had encouraged Nazi jingoism before the Second World War, but this was forcibly resolved. It thus establishes \"facts on the ground\"—radical demographic changes which can be very hard to reverse.\n\nSilent ethnic cleansing is a term coined in the mid-1990s by some observers of the Yugoslav Wars. Apparently concerned with Western media representations of atrocities committed in the conflict—which generally focused on those perpetrated by the Serbs—atrocities committed against Serbs were dubbed \"silent\" on the grounds that they did not receive adequate coverage.\n\nSome incidents in Northern Ireland and during the Troubles between Protestants and Catholics were considered to be \"ethnic cleansing\". This included events after the Holy Cross dispute in 2001 when Protestant paramilitaries were accused of carrying out ethnic cleansing of Catholics in north Belfast.\n\nIn many cases where accusations of ethnic cleansing have circulated, partisans have fiercely disputed such an interpretation and the details of the events which have been described as ethnic cleansing by academic or legal experts. This often leads to the promotion of vastly different versions of the event in question.\n\nGregory Stanton, the founder of Genocide Watch, has criticised the rise of the term and its use for events that he feels should be called \"genocide\": as \"ethnic cleansing\" has no legal definition, its media use can detract attention from events that should be prosecuted as genocide. Because of widespread acceptance after media influence, it has become a term used legally, but carries no legal repercussions as there is no legal definition.\n\nIn 1992, the German equivalent of ethnic cleansing\" () was named German Un-Word of the Year by the \"Gesellschaft für deutsche Sprache\" due to its euphemistic, inappropriate nature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4672579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4672579", "title": "Eudokia Angelina", "text": "Eudokia Angelina\n\nEudokia Angelina (or Eudocia Angelina) (, ; around 1173–died , or later) was the consort of Stefan the First-Crowned of Serbia from 1196 to 1198. She later became the mistress of Alexios V Doukas, the future Emperor. She was a daughter of Alexios III Angelos and Euphrosyne Doukaina Kamatera.\n\nEudokia first married Stefan, the second son of Stefan Nemanja, Grand Župan of Rascia. The marriage was arranged by her uncle, the emperor Isaac II Angelos, around 1186, while her father was in exile in Syria. In 1195, on her father-in-law's retirement to a monastery, Eudokia's husband became ruler of Rascia. According to the Greek historian Nicetas Choniates, Stefan and Eudocia quarrelled and separated, accusing one another of adultery, after June 1198. In 1200 or 1201, Eudokia was banished from his realm. Eudokia fled on foot with only the clothes on her back, seeking refuge at the court of Vukan, ruler of Zeta, who befriended her and provided for. When she recovered, Eudokia went to Dyrrachium, from where a Byzantine ship returned her to her father in Constantinople. The repudiation of Eudokia shows the decline of Byzantine power and prestige.\n\nIn Constantinople Eudokia became the mistress of the future Alexios V Doukas, with whom she (and her mother) fled the city into Thrace on April 12, 1204, as the Crusaders of the Fourth Crusade were storming the city. Reaching her deposed father at Mosynopolis, Eudocia was allowed to marry Alexios V, but he was enucleated on the orders of Alexios III shortly afterwards, then captured and sentenced to death by the Crusaders.\n\nEudokia married thirdly Leo Sgouros, the independent ruler of Corinth, after he offered asylum to Alexios III and his family in 1204. Blockaded in the citadel of Corinth, Leo Sgouros committed suicide in 1207/1208. Eudokia is thought to have died around 1211.\n\nBy her marriage to Stefan of Serbia she had two children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1452008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452008", "title": "Evo (board game)", "text": "Evo (board game)\n\nEvo: The Last Gasp of the Dinosaurs is a German-style board game for three to five players, designed by Philippe Keyaerts and published by Eurogames. The game won the \"GAMES Magazine\" award for \"Game of the year 2002\" and was nominated for the Origins Award for \"Best Graphic Presentation of a Board Game 2000\". The game went out of print in 2007, and a second edition was released in 2011.\n\nThe main game board is made of two reversible sections; on each, the two sides contain differently-sized halves of a prehistoric island. The board can therefore be assembled in four ways:\n\nThe island itself is made up of hexes of four different terrain types - \"Hot\", \"Warm\", \"Cool\" and \"Cold\". The game also uses a separate board for marking the current climate and round number, another for players scoring and bidding progress, and each player has a board to mark their dinosaur's mutations. The players' scores are also used as money during bidding phases.\n\nPlayers start with three Event cards, a stack of \"dino\" tokens several mutations: one \"Egg\", one \"Leg\", one \"Tail\", one \"Horn\", one \"Fur\" and one \"Parasol\". Each player places a dino token on their starting hex and a scoring marker on \"10\". Play proceeds through various phases:\n\n\nEvent cards can be used at various points to alter the game. The player with the most points when the game ends wins.\n\nThe simple strategy game at the core of \"Evo\" is made more interesting by the constantly changing climate. Positions which can be advantageous in one turn are often deadly a few turns later, so unlike many games where a winning player can come to dominate the game, the balance of power shifts frequently.\n\nUnlike most German-style board games, in the first edition it is possible for a player to be eliminated if all his dino tokens are removed from the board. However, this is very rare in practice. In the new edition, player elimination has been prevented by allowing players who only have two dinosaurs to be invulnerable during survival and combat phases. One of the many new unique gene abilities increases this limit to three, allowing players doing poorly to remain competitive.\n"}
{"id": "3463650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3463650", "title": "Foton (satellite)", "text": "Foton (satellite)\n\nFoton (or Photon) is the project name of two series of Russian science satellite and reentry vehicle programs. Although unmanned, the design was adapted from the manned Vostok spacecraft capsule. The primary focus of the Foton project is materials science research, but some missions have also carried experiments for other fields of research including biology. The original Foton series included 12 launches from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome from 1985 to 1999. The second series, under the name Foton-M, incorporates many design improvements over the original Foton, and is still in use. So far, there have been four launch attempts of the Foton-M. The first was in 2002 from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome, which ended in failure due to a problem in the launch vehicle. The last three were from the Baikonur Cosmodrome, in 2005, 2007, and 2014; all were successful. Both the Foton and Foton-M series used Soyuz-U (11A511U and 11A511U2) rockets as launch vehicles. Starting with the Foton-7 mission, the European Space Agency has been a partner in the Foton program.\n\nFoton-M is a new generation of Russian robotic spacecraft for research conducted in the microgravity environment of Earth orbit. The Foton-M design is based on the design of the Foton, with several improvements including a new telemetry and telecommand unit for increased data flow rate, increased battery capacity, and a better thermal control system. It is produced by TsSKB-Progress in Samara.\n\nThe first launch, of Foton-M1, failed because of a malfunction of the Soyuz-U launcher. The second launch, of Foton-M2, was, however, a success. Foton-M3 was launched on 14 September 2007 carried by a Soyuz-U rocket lifting off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan with Nadezhda, a cockroach that was the first earth creature to produce offspring that had been conceived in space. It returned successfully to Earth on September 26, 2007, landing in Kazakhstan at 7:58 GMT.\n\nThe Foton capsule has limited thruster capability. As such, the reentry path and orientation can not be controlled after the capsule has separated from the engine system. This means that the capsule has to be protected from reentry heat on all sides, thus explaining the spherical design (as opposed to Project Mercury's conical design), which allows for maximum volume while minimizing the external surface. However, the lack of lift means the capsule experiences high forces on reentry, up to 8 to 9g.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "144508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144508", "title": "Francis Poulenc", "text": "Francis Poulenc\n\nFrancis Jean Marcel Poulenc (; 7 January 189930 January 1963) was a French composer and pianist. His compositions include \"mélodies\", solo piano works, chamber music, choral pieces, operas, ballets, and orchestral concert music. Among the best-known are the piano suite \"Trois mouvements perpétuels\" (1919), the ballet \"Les biches\" (1923), the \"Concert champêtre\" (1928) for harpsichord and orchestra, the Organ Concerto (1938), the opera \"Dialogues des Carmélites\" (1957), and the \"Gloria\" (1959) for soprano, choir and orchestra.\n\nAs the only son of a prosperous manufacturer Poulenc was expected to follow his father into the family firm, and he was not allowed to enrol at a music college. Largely self-educated musically, he studied with the pianist Ricardo Viñes, who became his mentor after the composer's parents died. Poulenc soon came under the influence of Erik Satie, under whose tutelage he became one of a group of young composers known collectively as \"Les Six\". In his early works Poulenc became known for his high spirits and irreverence. During the 1930s a much more serious side to his nature emerged, particularly in the religious music he composed from 1936 onwards, which he alternated with his more light-hearted works.\n\nIn addition to composing, Poulenc was an accomplished pianist. He was particularly celebrated for his performing partnerships with the baritone Pierre Bernac (who also advised him in vocal writing) and the soprano Denise Duval, touring in Europe and America with each, and making many recordings. He was among the first composers to see the importance of the gramophone, and he recorded extensively from 1928 onwards.\n\nIn his later years, and for decades after his death, Poulenc had a reputation, particularly in his native country, as a humorous, lightweight composer, and his religious music was often overlooked. During the 21st century more attention has been given to his serious works, with many new productions of \"Dialogues des Carmélites\" and \"La voix humaine\" worldwide, and numerous live and recorded performances of his songs and choral music.\n\nPoulenc was born in the 8th arrondissement of Paris, the younger child and only son of Émile Poulenc and his wife, Jenny, \"née\" Royer. Émile Poulenc was a joint owner of the Poulenc Frères, a successful manufacturer of pharmaceuticals (later Rhône-Poulenc). He was a member of a pious Roman Catholic family from Espalion in the département of Aveyron. Jenny Poulenc was from a Parisian family with wide artistic interests. In Poulenc's view, the two sides of his nature grew out of this background: a deep religious faith from his father's family and a worldly and artistic side from his mother's. The critic Claude Rostand later described Poulenc as \"half monk and half naughty boy\".\nPoulenc grew up in a musical household; his mother was a capable pianist, with a wide repertoire ranging from classical to less elevated works that gave him a lifelong taste for what he called \"adorable bad music\". He took piano lessons from the age of five; when he was eight he first heard the music of Debussy and was fascinated by the originality of the sound. Other composers whose works influenced his development were Schubert and Stravinsky: the former's \"Winterreise\" and the latter's \"The Rite of Spring\" made a deep impression on him. At his father's insistence, Poulenc followed a conventional school career, studying at the Lycée Condorcet in Paris rather than at a music conservatory.\n\nIn 1916 a childhood friend, Raymonde Linossier (1897–1930), introduced Poulenc to Adrienne Monnier's bookshop, the \"Maison des Amis des Livres\". There he met the \"avant-garde\" poets Guillaume Apollinaire, Max Jacob, Paul Éluard and Louis Aragon. He later set many of their poems to music. In the same year he became the pupil of the pianist Ricardo Viñes. The biographer Henri Hell comments that Viñes's influence on his pupil was profound, both as to pianistic technique and the style of Poulenc's keyboard works. Poulenc later said of Viñes:\n\nHe was a most delightful man, a bizarre hidalgo with enormous moustachios, a flat-brimmed sombrero in the purest Spanish style, and button boots which he used to rap my shins when I didn't change the pedalling enough. ... I admired him madly, because, at this time, in 1914, he was the only virtuoso who played Debussy and Ravel. That meeting with Viñes was paramount in my life: I owe him everything ... In reality it is to Viñes that I owe my fledgling efforts in music and everything I know about the piano.\n\nWhen Poulenc was sixteen his mother died; his father died two years later. Viñes became more than a teacher: he was, in the words of Myriam Chimènes in the \"Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\", the young man's \"spiritual mentor\". He encouraged his pupil to compose, and he later gave the premieres of three early Poulenc works. Through him Poulenc became friendly with two composers who helped shape his early development: Georges Auric and Erik Satie.\n\nAuric, who was the same age as Poulenc, was an early developer musically; by the time the two met, Auric's music had already been performed at important Parisian concert venues. The two young composers shared a similar musical outlook and enthusiasms, and for the rest of Poulenc's life Auric was his most trusted friend and guide. Poulenc called him \"my true brother in spirit\". Satie, an eccentric figure, isolated from the mainstream French musical establishment, was a mentor to several rising young composers, including Auric, Louis Durey and Arthur Honegger. After initially dismissing Poulenc as a bourgeois amateur, he relented and admitted him to the circle of protégés, whom he called \"Les Nouveaux Jeunes\". Poulenc described Satie's influence on him as \"immediate and wide, on both the spiritual and musical planes\". The pianist Alfred Cortot commented that Poulenc's \"Trois mouvements perpétuels\" were \"reflections of the ironical outlook of Satie adapted to the sensitive standards of the current intellectual circles\".\n\nPoulenc made his début as a composer in 1917 with his \"Rapsodie nègre\", a ten-minute, five-movement piece for baritone and chamber group; it was dedicated to Satie and premiered at one of a series of concerts of new music run by the singer Jane Bathori. There was a fashion for African arts in Paris at the time, and Poulenc was delighted to run across some published verses purportedly Liberian, but full of Parisian boulevard slang. He used one of the poems in two sections of the rhapsody. The baritone engaged for the first performance lost his nerve on the platform, and the composer, though no singer, jumped in. This \"jeu d'esprit\" was the first of many examples of what Anglophone critics came to call \"leg-Poulenc\". Ravel was amused by the piece and commented on Poulenc's ability to invent his own folklore. Stravinsky was impressed enough to use his influence to secure Poulenc a contract with a publisher, a kindness that Poulenc never forgot.\nIn 1917 Poulenc got to know Ravel well enough to have serious discussions with him about music. He was dismayed by Ravel's judgments, which exalted composers whom Poulenc thought little of above those he greatly admired. He told Satie of this unhappy encounter; Satie replied with a dismissive epithet for Ravel who, he said, talked \"a load of rubbish\". For many years Poulenc was equivocal about Ravel's music, though always respecting him as a man. Ravel's modesty about his own music particularly appealed to Poulenc, who sought throughout his life to follow Ravel's example.\n\nFrom January 1918 to January 1921 Poulenc was a conscript in the French army in the last months of the First World War and the immediate post-war period. Between July and October 1918 he served at the Franco-German front, after which he was given a series of auxiliary posts, ending as a typist at the Ministry of Aviation. His duties allowed him time for composition; the \"Trois mouvements perpétuels\" for piano and the Sonata for Piano Duet were written at the piano of the local elementary school at Saint-Martin-sur-le-Pré, and he completed his first song cycle, \"Le bestiaire\", setting poems by Apollinaire. The sonata did not create a deep public impression, but the song cycle made the composer's name known in France, and the \"Trois mouvements perpétuels\" rapidly became an international success. The exigencies of music-making in wartime taught Poulenc much about writing for whatever instruments were available; then, and later, some of his works were for unusual combinations of players.\n\nAt this stage in his career Poulenc was conscious of his lack of academic musical training; the critic and biographer Jeremy Sams writes that it was the composer's good luck that the public mood was turning against late-romantic lushness in favour of the \"freshness and insouciant charm\" of his works, technically unsophisticated though they were. Four of Poulenc's early works were premiered at the Salle Huyghens in the Montparnasse area, where between 1917 and 1920 the cellist Félix Delgrange presented concerts of music by young composers. Among them were Auric, Durey, Honegger, Darius Milhaud and Germaine Tailleferre who, with Poulenc, became known collectively as \"Les Six\". After one of their concerts, the critic Henri Collet published an article titled, \"The Five Russians, the Six Frenchmen and Satie\". According to Milhaud:\nIn completely arbitrary fashion Collet chose the names of six composers, Auric, Durey, Honegger, Poulenc, Tailleferre and myself, for no other reason than that we knew each other, that we were friends and were represented in the same programmes, but without the slightest concern for our different attitudes and our different natures. Auric and Poulenc followed the ideas of Cocteau, Honegger was a product of German Romanticism and my leanings were towards a Mediterranean lyrical art ... Collet's article made such a wide impression that the Groupe des Six had come into being.\nCocteau, though similar in age to \"Les Six\", was something of a father-figure to the group. His literary style, \"paradoxical and lapidary\" in Hell's phrase, was anti-romantic, concise and irreverent. It greatly appealed to Poulenc, who made his first setting of Cocteau's words in 1919 and his last in 1961. When members of \"Les Six\" collaborated with each other, they contributed their own individual sections to the joint work. Their 1920 piano suite \"L'Album des Six\" consists of six separate and unrelated pieces. Their 1921 ballet \"Les mariés de la tour Eiffel\" contains three sections by Milhaud, two apiece by Auric, Poulenc and Tailleferre, one by Honegger and none by Durey, who was already distancing himself from the group.\n\nIn the early 1920s Poulenc remained concerned at his lack of formal musical training. Satie was suspicious of music colleges, but Ravel advised Poulenc to take composition lessons; Milhaud suggested the composer and teacher Charles Koechlin. Poulenc worked with him intermittently from 1921 to 1925.\n\nFrom the early 1920s Poulenc was well received abroad, particularly in Britain, both as a performer and a composer. In 1921 Ernest Newman wrote in \"The Manchester Guardian\", \"I keep my eye on Francis Poulenc, a young man who has only just arrived at his twenties. He ought to develop into a farceur of the first order.\" Newman said that he had rarely heard anything so deliciously absurd as parts of Poulenc's song cycle \"Cocardes\", with its accompaniment played by the unorthodox combination of cornet, trombone, violin and percussion. In 1922 Poulenc and Milhaud travelled to Vienna to meet Alban Berg, Anton Webern and Arnold Schönberg. Neither of the French composers was influenced by their Austrian colleagues' revolutionary twelve-tone system, but they admired the three as its leading proponents. The following year Poulenc received a commission from Sergei Diaghilev for a full-length ballet score. He decided that the theme would be a modern version of the classical French \"fête galante\". This work, \"Les biches\", was an immediate success, first in Monte Carlo in January 1924 and then in Paris in May, under the direction of André Messager; it has remained one of Poulenc's best-known scores. Poulenc's new celebrity after the success of the ballet was the unexpected cause of his estrangement from Satie: among the new friends Poulenc made was Louis Laloy, a writer whom Satie regarded with implacable enmity. Auric, who had just enjoyed a similar triumph with a Diaghilev ballet, \"Les Fâcheux\", was also repudiated by Satie for becoming a friend of Laloy.\nAs the decade progressed, Poulenc produced a range of compositions, from songs to chamber music and another ballet, \"Aubade\". Hell suggests that Koechlin's influence occasionally inhibited Poulenc's natural simple style, and that Auric offered useful guidance to help him appear in his true colours. At a concert of music by the two friends in 1926, Poulenc's songs were sung for the first time by the baritone Pierre Bernac, from whom, in Hell's phrase, \"the name of Poulenc was soon to be inseparable.\" Another performer with whom the composer came to be closely associated was the harpsichordist Wanda Landowska. He heard her as the soloist in Falla's \"El retablo de maese Pedro\" (1923), an early example of the use of a harpsichord in a modern work, and was immediately taken with the sound. At Landowska's request he wrote a concerto, the \"Concert champêtre\", which she premiered in 1929 with the Orchestre Symphonique de Paris conducted by Pierre Monteux.\n\nThe biographer Richard D. E. Burton comments that, in the late 1920s, Poulenc might have seemed to be in an enviable position: professionally successful and independently well-off, having inherited a substantial fortune from his father. He bought a large country house, Le Grande Coteau, at Noizay, Indre-et-Loire, south-west of Paris, where he retreated to compose in peaceful surroundings. Yet he was troubled, struggling to come to terms with his sexuality, which was predominantly homosexual. His first serious affair was with the painter Richard Chanlaire, to whom he sent a copy of the \"Concert champêtre\" score inscribed, \"You have changed my life, you are the sunshine of my thirty years, a reason for living and working\". Nevertheless, while this affair was in progress Poulenc proposed marriage to his friend Raymonde Linossier. As she was not only well aware of his homosexuality but was also romantically attached elsewhere, she refused him, and their relationship became strained. He suffered the first of many periods of depression, which affected his ability to compose, and he was devastated in January 1930 when Linossier died suddenly at the age of 32. On her death he wrote, \"All my youth departs with her, all that part of my life that belonged only to her. I sob ... I am now twenty years older\". His affair with Chanlaire petered out in 1931, though they remained lifelong friends.\n\nAt the start of the decade, Poulenc returned to writing songs, after a two-year break from doing so. His \"Epitaphe\", to a poem by Malherbe, was written in memory of Linossier, and is described by the pianist Graham Johnson as \"a profound song in every sense\". The following year Poulenc wrote three sets of songs, to words by Apollinaire and Max Jacob, some of which were serious in tone, and others reminiscent of his earlier light-hearted style, as were others of his works of the early 1930s. In 1932 his music was among the first to be broadcast on television, in a transmission by the BBC in which Reginald Kell and Gilbert Vinter played his Sonata for clarinet and bassoon. At about this time Poulenc began a relationship with Raymond Destouches, a chauffeur; as with Chanlaire earlier, what began as a passionate affair changed into a deep and lasting friendship. Destouches, who married in the 1950s, remained close to Poulenc until the end of the composer's life.\nTwo unrelated events in 1936 combined to inspire a reawakening of religious faith and a new depth of seriousness in Poulenc's music. His fellow composer Pierre-Octave Ferroud was killed in a car crash so violent that he was decapitated, and almost immediately afterwards, while on holiday, Poulenc visited the sanctuary of Rocamadour. He later explained:\nA few days earlier I'd just heard of the tragic death of my colleague ... As I meditated on the fragility of our human frame, I was drawn once more to the life of the spirit. Rocamadour had the effect of restoring me to the faith of my childhood. This sanctuary, undoubtedly the oldest in France ... had everything to captivate me ... The same evening of this visit to Rocamadour, I began my \"Litanies à la Vierge noire\" for female voices and organ. In that work I tried to get across the atmosphere of \"peasant devotion\" that had struck me so forcibly in that lofty chapel.\n\nOther works that followed continued the composer's new-found seriousness, including many settings of Éluard's surrealist and humanist poems. In 1937 he composed his first major liturgical work, the Mass in G major for soprano and mixed choir \"a cappella\", which has become the most frequently performed of all his sacred works. Poulenc's new compositions were not all in this serious vein; his incidental music to the play \"La Reine Margot\", starring Yvonne Printemps, was pastiche 16th-century dance music, and became popular under the title \"Suite française\". Music critics generally continued to define Poulenc by his light-hearted works, and it was not until the 1950s that his serious side was widely recognised.\n\nIn 1936 Poulenc began giving frequent recitals with Bernac. At the École Normale in Paris they gave the premiere of Poulenc's \"Cinq poèmes de Paul Éluard\". They continued to perform together for more than twenty years, in Paris and internationally, until Bernac's retirement in 1959. Poulenc, who composed 90 songs for his collaborator, considered him one of the \"three great meetings\" of his professional career, the other two being Éluard and Landowska. In Johnson's words, \"for twenty-five years Bernac was Poulenc's counsellor and conscience\", and the composer relied on him for advice not only on song-writing, but on his operas and choral music.\n\nThroughout the decade, Poulenc was popular with British audiences; he established a fruitful relationship with the BBC in London, which broadcast many of his works. With Bernac, he made his first tour of Britain in 1938. His music was also popular in America, seen by many as \"the quintessence of French wit, elegance and high spirits\". In the last years of the 1930s, Poulenc's compositions continued to vary between serious and light-hearted works. \"Quatre motets pour un temps de pénitence\" (Four Penitential Motets, 1938–39) and the song \"Bleuet\" (1939), an elegiac meditation on death, contrast with the song cycle \"Fiançailles pour rire\" (Light-Hearted Betrothal), which recaptures the spirit of \"Les biches\", in the opinion of Hell.\n\nPoulenc was briefly a soldier again during the Second World War; he was called up on 2 June 1940 and served in an anti-aircraft unit at Bordeaux. After France surrendered to Germany, Poulenc was demobilised from the army on 18 July 1940. He spent the summer of that year with family and friends at Brive-la-Gaillarde in south-central France. In the early months of the war, he had composed little new music, instead re-orchestrating \"Les biches\" and reworking his 1932 Sextet for piano and winds. At Brive-la-Gaillarde he began three new works, and once back at his home in Noizay in October he started on a fourth. These were \"L'Histoire de Babar, le petit éléphant\" for piano and narrator, the Cello Sonata, the ballet \"Les Animaux modèles\" and the song cycle \"Banalités\".\nFor most of the war, Poulenc was in Paris, giving recitals with Bernac, concentrating on French songs. Under Nazi rule he was in a vulnerable position, as a known homosexual (Destouches narrowly avoided arrest and deportation), but in his music he made many gestures of defiance of the Germans. He set to music verses by poets prominent in the French Resistance, including Aragon and Éluard. In \"Les Animaux modèles\", premiered at the Opéra in 1942, he included the tune, repeated several times, of the anti-German song \"Vous n'aurez pas l'Alsace et la Lorraine\". He was a founder-member of the Front National (pour musique) which the Nazi authorities viewed with suspicion for its association with banned musicians such as Milhaud and Paul Hindemith. In 1943 he wrote a cantata for unaccompanied double choir intended for Belgium, \"Figure humaine\", setting eight of Éluard's poems. The work, ending with \"Liberté\", could not be given in France while the Germans were in control; its first performance was broadcast from a BBC studio in London in March 1945, and it was not sung in Paris until 1947. The music critic of \"The Times\" later wrote that the work \"is among the very finest choral works of our time and in itself removes Poulenc from the category of \"petit maître\" to which ignorance has generally been content to relegate him.\"\n\nIn January 1945, commissioned by the French government, Poulenc and Bernac flew from Paris to London, where they received an enthusiastic welcome. The London Philharmonic Orchestra gave a reception in the composer's honour; he and Benjamin Britten were the soloists in a performance of Poulenc's Double Piano Concerto at the Royal Albert Hall; with Bernac he gave recitals of French \"mélodies\" and piano works at the Wigmore Hall and the National Gallery, and recorded for the BBC. Bernac was overwhelmed by the public's response; when he and Poulenc stepped out on the Wigmore Hall stage, \"the audience rose and my emotion was such that instead of beginning to sing, I began to weep.\" After their fortnight's stay, the two returned home on the first boat-train to leave London for Paris since May 1940.\n\nIn Paris, Poulenc completed his scores for \"L'Histoire de Babar, le petit éléphant\" and his first opera, \"Les mamelles de Tirésias\" (The Breasts of Tiresias), a short opéra bouffe of about an hour's duration. The work is a setting of Apollinaire's play of the same name, staged in 1917. Sams describes the opera as \"high-spirited topsy-turveydom\" concealing \"a deeper and sadder theme – the need to repopulate and rediscover a France ravaged by war\". It was premiered in June 1947 at the Opéra-Comique, and was a critical success, but did not prove popular with the public. The leading female role was taken by Denise Duval, who became the composer's favourite soprano, frequent recital partner and dedicatee of some of his music. He called her the nightingale who made him cry (\"Mon rossignol à larmes\").\nShortly after the war, Poulenc had a brief affair with a woman, Fréderique (\"Freddy\") Lebedeff, with whom he had a daughter, Marie-Ange, in 1946. The child was brought up without knowing who her father was (Poulenc was supposedly her \"godfather\") but he made generous provision for her, and she was the principal beneficiary of his will.\n\nIn the post-war period Poulenc crossed swords with composers of the younger generation who rejected Stravinsky's recent work and insisted that only the precepts of the Second Viennese School were valid. Poulenc defended Stravinsky and expressed incredulity that \"in 1945 we are speaking as if the aesthetic of twelve tones is the only possible salvation for contemporary music\". His view that Berg had taken serialism as far as it could go and that Schoenberg's music was now \"desert, stone soup, ersatz music, or poetic vitamins\" earned him the enmity of composers such as Pierre Boulez. Those disagreeing with Poulenc attempted to paint him as a relic of the pre-war era, frivolous and unprogressive. This led him to focus on his more serious works, and to try to persuade the French public to listen to them. In the US and Britain, with their strong choral traditions, his religious music was frequently performed, but performances in France were much rarer, so that the public and the critics were often unaware of his serious compositions.\n\nIn 1948 Poulenc made his first visit to the US, in a two-month concert tour with Bernac. He returned there frequently until 1961, giving recitals with Bernac or Duval and as soloist in the world premiere of his Piano Concerto (1949), commissioned by the Boston Symphony Orchestra.\n\nPoulenc began the 1950s with a new partner in his private life, Lucien Roubert, a travelling salesman. Professionally Poulenc was productive, writing a seven-song cycle setting poems by Éluard, \"La Fraîcheur et le feu\" (1950), and the \"Stabat Mater\", in memory of the painter Christian Bérard, composed in 1950 and premiered the following year.\nIn 1953, Poulenc was offered a commission by La Scala and the Milanese publisher Casa Ricordi for a ballet. He considered the story of St Margaret of Cortona but found a dance version of her life impracticable. He preferred to write an opera on a religious theme; Ricordi suggested \"Dialogues des Carmélites\", an unfilmed screenplay by Georges Bernanos. The text, based on a short story by Gertrud von Le Fort, depicts the Martyrs of Compiègne, nuns guillotined during the French Revolution for their religious beliefs. Poulenc found it \"such a moving and noble work\", ideal for his libretto, and he began composition in August 1953.\n\nDuring the composition of the opera, Poulenc suffered two blows. He learned of a dispute between Bernanos's estate and the writer Emmet Lavery, who held the rights to theatrical adaptations of Le Fort's novel; this caused Poulenc to stop work on his opera. At about the same time Roubert became gravely ill. Intense worry pushed Poulenc into a nervous breakdown, and in November 1954 he was in a clinic at L'Haÿ-les-Roses, outside Paris, heavily sedated. When he recovered, and the literary rights and royalty payments disputes with Lavery were settled, he resumed work on \"Dialogues des Carmélites\" in between extensive touring with Bernac in England. As his personal wealth had declined since the 1920s he required the substantial income earned from his recitals.\n\nWhile working on the opera, Poulenc composed little else; exceptions were two \"mélodies\", and a short orchestral movement, \"Bucolique\" in a collective work, \"Variations sur le nom de Marguerite Long\" (1954), to which his old friends from \"Les Six\" Auric and Milhaud also contributed. As Poulenc was writing the last pages of his opera in October 1955, Roubert died at the age of forty-seven. The composer wrote to a friend, \"Lucien was delivered from his martyrdom ten days ago and the final copy of \"Les Carmélites\" was completed (take note) at the very moment my dear breathed his last.\"\n\nThe opera was first given in January 1957 at La Scala in Italian translation. Between then and the French premiere Poulenc introduced one of his most popular late works, the Flute Sonata, which he and Jean-Pierre Rampal performed in June at the Strasbourg Festival. Three days later, on 21 June, came the Paris premiere of \"Dialogues des Carmélites\" at the Opéra. It was a tremendous success, to the composer's considerable relief. At around this time Poulenc began his last romantic relationship, with Louis Gautier, a former soldier; they remained partners to the end of Poulenc's life.\nIn 1958 Poulenc embarked on a collaboration with his old friend Cocteau, in an operatic version of the latter's 1930 monodrama \"La Voix humaine\". The work was produced in February 1959 at the Opéra-Comique, under Cocteau's direction, with Duval as the tragic deserted woman speaking to her former lover by telephone. In May Poulenc's 60th birthday was marked, a few months late, by his last concert with Bernac before the latter's retirement from public performance.\n\nPoulenc visited the US in 1960 and 1961. Among his works given during these trips were the American premiere of \"La Voix humaine\" at Carnegie Hall in New York, with Duval, and the world premiere of his Gloria, a large-scale work for soprano, four-part mixed chorus and orchestra, conducted in Boston by Charles Munch. In 1961 Poulenc published a book about Chabrier, a 187-page study of which a reviewer wrote in the 1980s, \"he writes with love and insight of a composer whose views he shared on matters like the primacy of melody and the essential seriousness of humour.\" The works of Poulenc's last twelve months included \"Sept répons des ténèbres\" for voices and orchestra, the Clarinet Sonata and the Oboe Sonata.\n\nOn 30 January 1963, at his flat opposite the Jardin du Luxembourg, Poulenc suffered a fatal heart attack. His funeral was at the nearby church of Saint-Sulpice. In compliance with his wishes, none of his music was performed; Marcel Dupré played works by Bach on the grand organ of the church. Poulenc was buried at Père Lachaise Cemetery, alongside his family.\nPoulenc's music is essentially diatonic. In Henri Hell's view, this is because the main feature of Poulenc's musical art is his melodic gift. In the words of Roger Nichols in the \"Grove\" dictionary, \"For [Poulenc] the most important element of all was melody and he found his way to a vast treasury of undiscovered tunes within an area that had, according to the most up-to-date musical maps, been surveyed, worked and exhausted.\" The commentator George Keck writes, \"His melodies are simple, pleasing, easily remembered, and most often emotionally expressive.\"\n\nPoulenc said that he was not inventive in his harmonic language. The composer Lennox Berkeley wrote of him, \"All through his life, he was content to use conventional harmony, but his use of it was so individual, so immediately recognizable as his own, that it gave his music freshness and validity.\" Keck considers Poulenc's harmonic language \"as beautiful, interesting and personal as his melodic writing ... clear, simple harmonies moving in obviously defined tonal areas with chromaticism that is rarely more than passing\". Poulenc had no time for musical theories; in one of his many radio interviews he called for \"a truce to composing by theory, doctrine, rule!\" He was dismissive of what he saw as the dogmatism of latter-day adherents to dodecaphony, led by René Leibowitz, and greatly regretted that the adoption of a theoretical approach had affected the music of Olivier Messiaen, of whom he had earlier had high hopes. To Hell, almost all Poulenc's music is \"directly or indirectly inspired by the purely melodic associations of the human voice\". Poulenc was a painstaking craftsman, though a myth grew up – \"la légende de facilité\" – that his music came easily to him; he commented, \"The myth is excusable, since I do everything to conceal my efforts.\"\n\nThe pianist Pascal Rogé commented in 1999 that both sides of Poulenc's musical nature were equally important: \"You must accept him as a whole. If you take away either part, the serious or the non-serious, you destroy him. If one part is erased you get only a pale photocopy of what he really is.\" Poulenc recognised the dichotomy, but in all his works he wanted music that was \"healthy, clear and robust – music as frankly French as Stravinsky's is Slav\".\n\nPoulenc's principal works for large orchestra comprise two ballets, a \"Sinfonietta\" and four keyboard concertos. The first of the ballets, \"Les biches\", was first performed in 1924 and remains one of his best-known works. Nichols writes in \"Grove\" that the clear and tuneful score has no deep, or even shallow, symbolism, a fact \"accentuated by a tiny passage of mock-Wagnerian brass, complete with emotive minor 9ths\". The first two of the four concertos are in Poulenc's light-hearted vein. The \"Concert champêtre\" for harpsichord and orchestra (1927–28), evokes the countryside seen from a Parisian point of view: Nichols comments that the fanfares in the last movement bring to mind the bugles in the barracks of Vincennes in the Paris suburbs. The Concerto for two pianos and orchestra (1932) is similarly a work intended purely to entertain. It draws on a variety of stylistic sources: the first movement ends in a manner reminiscent of Balinese gamelan, and the slow movement begins in a Mozartian style, which Poulenc gradually fills out with his own characteristic personal touches. The Organ Concerto (1938) is in a much more serious vein. Poulenc said that it was \"on the outskirts\" of his religious music, and there are passages that draw on the church music of Bach, though there are also interludes in breezy popular style. The second ballet score, \"Les Animaux modèles\" (1941), has never equalled the popularity of \"Les biches\", though both Auric and Honegger praised the composer's harmonic flair and resourceful orchestration. Honegger wrote, \"The influences that have worked on him, Chabrier, Satie, Stravinsky, are now completely assimilated. Listening to his music you think – it's Poulenc.\" The \"Sinfonietta\" (1947) is a reversion to Poulenc's pre-war frivolity. He came to feel, \"I dressed too young for my age ... [it] is a new version of \"Les biches\" but young girls [\"biches\"] that are forty-eight years old – that's horrible!\" The Concerto for piano and orchestra (1949) initially caused some disappointment: many felt that it was not an advance on Poulenc's pre-war music, a view he came to share. The piece has been re-evaluated in more recent years, and in 1996 the writer Claire Delamarche rated it as the composer's finest concertante work.\n\nPoulenc, a highly accomplished pianist, usually composed at the piano and wrote many pieces for the instrument throughout his career. In Henri Hell's view, Poulenc's piano writing can be divided into the percussive and the gentler style reminiscent of the harpsichord. Hell considers that the finest of Poulenc's music for piano is in the accompaniments to the songs, a view shared by Poulenc himself. The vast majority of the piano works are, in the view of the writer Keith W Daniel, \"what might be called 'miniatures'\". Looking back at his piano music in the 1950s, the composer viewed it critically: \"I tolerate the \"Mouvements perpétuels\", my old \"Suite en ut\" [in C], and the \"Trois pieces\". I like very much my two collections of Improvisations, an Intermezzo in A flat, and certain Nocturnes. I condemn \"Napoli\" and the \"Soirées de Nazelles\" without reprieve.\"\n\nOf the pieces cited with approval by Poulenc, the fifteen Improvisations were composed at intervals between 1932 and 1959. All are brief: the longest lasts a little more than three minutes. They vary from swift and balletic to tender lyricism, old-fashioned march, \"perpetuum mobile\", waltz and a poignant musical portrait of the singer Édith Piaf. Poulenc's favoured Intermezzo was the last of three. Numbers one and two were composed in August 1934; the A flat followed in March 1943. The commentators Marina and Victor Ledin describe the work as \"the embodiment of the word 'charming'. The music seems simply to roll off the pages, each sound following another in such an honest and natural way, with eloquence and unmistakable Frenchness.\" The eight nocturnes were composed across nearly a decade (1929–38). Whether or not Poulenc originally conceived them as an integral set, he gave the eighth the title \"To serve as Coda for the Cycle\" (\"Pour servir de Coda au Cycle\"). Although they share their generic title with the nocturnes of Field, Chopin and Fauré, Poulenc's do not resemble those of the earlier composers, being \"night-scenes and sound-images of public and private events\" rather than romantic tone poems.\n\nThe pieces Poulenc found merely tolerable were all early works: \"Trois mouvements perpétuels\" dates from 1919, the Suite in C from 1920 and the Trois pièces from 1928. All consist of short sections, the longest being the \"Hymne\", the second of the three 1928 pieces, which lasts about four minutes. Of the two works their composer singled out for censure, \"Napoli\" (1925) is a three-movement portrait of Italy, and \"Les Soirées de Nazelles\" is described by the composer Geoffrey Bush as \"the French equivalent of Elgar's \"Enigma Variations\"\" – miniature character sketches of his friends. Despite Poulenc's scorn for the work, Bush judges it ingenious and witty. Among the piano music not mentioned, favourably or harshly, by Poulenc, the best known pieces include the two Novelettes (1927–28), the set of six miniatures for children, \"Villageoises\" (1933), a piano version of the seven-movement \"Suite française\" (1935), and \"L'embarquement pour Cythère\" for two pianos (1953).\n\nIn \"Grove\", Nichols divides the chamber works into three clearly differentiated periods. The first four sonatas come from the early group, all written before Poulenc was twenty-two. They are for two clarinets (1918), piano duo (1918), clarinet and bassoon (1922) and horn, trumpet and trombone (1922). They are early examples of Poulenc's many and varied influences, with echoes of rococo \"divertissements\" alongside unconventional harmonies, some influenced by jazz. All four are characterised by their brevity – less than ten minutes each – their mischievousness and their wit, which Nichols describes as acid. Other chamber works from this period are the \"Rapsodie nègre\", FP 3, from 1917 (mainly instrumental, with brief vocal episodes) and the Trio for oboe, bassoon and piano (1926).\n\nThe chamber works of Poulenc's middle period were written in the 1930s and 1940s. The best known is the Sextet for Piano and Wind (1932), in Poulenc's light-hearted vein, consisting of two lively outer movements and a central \"divertimento\"; this was one of several chamber works that the composer became dissatisfied with and revised extensively some years after their first performance (in this case in 1939–40). The sonatas in this group are for violin and piano (1942–43) and for cello and piano (1948). Writing for strings did not come easily to Poulenc; these sonatas were completed after two unsuccessful earlier attempts, and in 1947 he destroyed the draft of a string quartet. Both sonatas are predominantly grave in character; that for violin is dedicated to the memory of Federico García Lorca. Commentators including Hell, Schmidt and Poulenc himself have regarded it, and to some extent the cello sonata, as less effective than those for wind. The \"Aubade\", \"Concerto choréographique\" for piano and 18 instruments (1930) achieves an almost orchestral effect, despite its modest number of players. The other chamber works from this period are arrangements for small ensembles of two works in Poulenc's lightest vein, the \"Suite française\" (1935) and the \"Trois mouvements perpétuels\" (1946).\n\nThe final three sonatas are for woodwind and piano: for flute (1956–57), clarinet (1962), and oboe (1962). They have, according to \"Grove\", become fixtures in their repertoires because of \"their technical expertise and of their profound beauty\". The \"Elégie\" for horn and piano (1957) was composed in memory of the horn player Dennis Brain. It contains one of Poulenc's rare excursions into dodecaphony, with the brief employment of a twelve-note tone row.\n\nPoulenc composed songs throughout his career, and his output in the genre is extensive. In Johnson's view, most of the finest were written in the 1930s and 1940s. Though widely varied in character, the songs are dominated by Poulenc's preference for certain poets. From the outset of his career he favoured verses by Guillaume Apollinaire, and from the mid-1930s the writer whose work he set most often was Paul Éluard. Other poets whose works he frequently set included Jean Cocteau, Max Jacob, and Louise de Vilmorin. In the view of the music critic Andrew Clements, the Éluard songs include many of Poulenc's greatest settings; Johnson calls the cycle \"Tel Jour, Telle Nuit\" (1937) the composer's \"watershed work\", and Nichols regards it as \"a masterpiece worthy to stand beside Fauré's \"La bonne chanson\"\". Clements finds in the Éluard settings a profundity \"worlds away from the brittle, facetious surfaces of Poulenc's early orchestral and instrumental music\". The first of the \"Deux poèmes de Louis Aragon\" (1943), titled simply \"C\", is described by Johnson as \"a masterpiece known the world over; it is the most unusual, and perhaps the most moving, song about the ravages of war ever composed.\"\n\nIn an overview of the songs in 1973, the musical scholar Yvonne Gouverné said, \"With Poulenc, the melodic line matches the text so well that it seems in some way to complete it, thanks to the gift which the music has for penetrating the very essence of a given poem; nobody has better crafted a phrase than Poulenc, highlighting the colour of the words.\" Among the lighter pieces, one of the composer's most popular songs is a setting of \"Les Chemins de l'amour\" for Jean Anouilh's 1940 play as a Parisian waltz; by contrast his \"monologue\" \"La Dame de Monte Carlo\", (1961) a depiction of an elderly woman addicted to gambling, shows the composer's painful understanding of the horrors of depression.\n\nApart from a single early work for unaccompanied choir (\"Chanson à boire\", 1922), Poulenc began writing choral music in 1936. In that year he produced three works for choir: \"Sept chansons\" (settings of verses by Éluard and others), \"Petites voix\" (for children's voices), and his religious work \"Litanies à la Vierge Noire\", for female or children's voices and organ. The Mass in G major (1937) for unaccompanied choir is described by Gouverné as having something of a baroque style, with \"vitality and joyful clamour on which his faith is writ large\". Poulenc's new-found religious theme continued with \"Quatre motets pour un temps de pénitence\" (1938–39), but among his most important choral works is the secular cantata \"Figure humaine\" (1943). Like the Mass, it is unaccompanied, and to succeed in performance it requires singers of the highest quality. Other \"a cappella\" works include the \"Quatre motets pour le temps de Noël\" (1952), which make severe demands on choirs' rhythmic precision and intonation. \n\nPoulenc's major works for choir and orchestra are the \"Stabat Mater\" (1950), the \"Gloria\" (1959–60), and \"Sept répons des ténèbres\" (Seven responsories for \"Tenebrae\", 1961–62). All these works are based on liturgical texts, originally set to Gregorian chant. In the \"Gloria\", Poulenc's faith expresses itself in an exuberant, joyful way, with intervals of prayerful calm and mystic feeling, and an ending of serene tranquillity. Poulenc wrote to Bernac in 1962, \"I have finished Les Ténèbres. I think it is beautiful. With the Gloria and the Stabat Mater, I think I have three good religious works. May they spare me a few days in Purgatory, if I narrowly avoid going to hell.\" \"Sept répons des ténèbres\", which Poulenc did not live to hear performed, uses a large orchestra, but in Nichols's view it displays a new concentration of thought. To the critic Ralph Thibodeau, the work may be considered as Poulenc's own requiem and is \"the most avant-garde of his sacred compositions, the most emotionally demanding, and the most interesting musically, comparable only with his \"magnum opus sacrum\", the opera, \"Dialogues des Carmélites\".\"\n\nPoulenc turned to opera only in the latter half of his career. Having achieved fame by his early twenties, he was in his forties before attempting his first opera. He attributed this to the need for maturity before tackling the subjects he chose to set. In 1958 he told an interviewer, \"When I was 24 I was able to write \"Les biches\" [but] it is obvious that unless a composer of 30 has the genius of a Mozart or the precociousness of Schubert he couldn't write \"The Carmelites\" – the problems are too profound.\" In Sams's view, all three of Poulenc's operas display a depth of feeling far distant from \"the cynical stylist of the 1920s\": \"Les mamelles de Tirésias\" (1947), despite the riotous plot, is full of nostalgia and a sense of loss. In the two avowedly serious operas, \"Dialogues des Carmélites\" (1957) and \"La Voix humaine\" (1959), in which Poulenc depicts deep human suffering, Sams sees a reflection of the composer's own struggles with depression.\n\nIn terms of musical technique the operas show how far Poulenc had come from his naïve and insecure beginnings. Nichols comments in \"Grove\" that \"Les mamelles de Tirésias\", deploys \"lyrical solos, patter duets, chorales, falsetto lines for tenor and bass babies and ... succeeds in being both funny and beautiful\". In all three operas Poulenc drew on earlier composers, while blending their influence into music unmistakably his own. In the printed score of \"Dialogues des Carmélites\" he acknowledged his debt to Mussorgsky, Monteverdi, Debussy and Verdi. The critic Renaud Machart writes that \"Dialogues des Carmélites\" is, with Britten’s \"Peter Grimes\", one of the extremely rare operas written since the Second World War to appear on opera programmes all over the world.\n\nEven when he wrote for a large orchestra, Poulenc used the full forces sparingly in his operas, often scoring for woodwinds or brass or strings alone. With the invaluable input of Bernac he showed great skill in writing for the human voice, fitting the music to the tessitura of each character. By the time of the last of the operas, \"La Voix humaine\", Poulenc felt able to give the soprano stretches of music with no orchestral accompaniment at all, though when the orchestra plays, Poulenc calls for the music to be \"bathed in sensuality\".\n\nPoulenc was among the composers who recognised in the 1920s the important role that the gramophone would play in the promotion of music. The first recording of his music was made in 1928, with the mezzo-soprano Claire Croiza accompanied by the composer at the piano, in the complete song cycle \"La bestiaire\" for French Columbia. He made numerous recordings, mainly for the French division of EMI. With Bernac and Duval he recorded many of his own songs, and those of other composers including Chabrier, Debussy, Gounod and Ravel. He played the piano part in recordings of his \"Babar the Elephant\" with Pierre Fresnay and Noël Coward as narrators. In 2005, EMI issued a DVD, \"Francis Poulenc & Friends\", featuring filmed performances of Poulenc's music, played by the composer, with Duval, Jean-Pierre Rampal, Jacques Février and Georges Prêtre.\nA 1984 discography of Poulenc's music lists recordings by more than 1,300 conductors, soloists and ensembles, including the conductors Leonard Bernstein, Charles Dutoit, Milhaud, Eugene Ormandy, Prêtre, André Previn and Leopold Stokowski. Among the singers, in addition to Bernac and Duval, the list includes Régine Crespin, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau, Nicolai Gedda, Peter Pears, Yvonne Printemps and Gérard Souzay. Instrumental soloists include Britten, Jacques Février, Pierre Fournier, Emil Gilels, Yehudi Menuhin and Arthur Rubinstein.\n\nComplete sets of Poulenc's solo piano music have been recorded by Gabriel Tacchino, who had been Poulenc's only piano student (released on the EMI label), Pascal Rogé (Decca), Paul Crossley (CBS), Eric Parkin (Chandos) and Olivier Cazal (Naxos). Integral sets of the chamber music have been recorded by the Nash Ensemble (Hyperion), and a variety of young French musicians (Naxos).\n\nThe world premiere of \"Dialogues des Carmélites\" (in Italian, as \"Dialoghi delle Carmelitane\") was recorded and has been released on CD. The first studio recording was soon after the French premiere, and since then there have been at least ten live or studio recordings on CD or DVD, most of them in French but one in German and one in English.\n\nThe two sides to Poulenc's musical nature caused misunderstanding during his life and have continued to do so. The composer Ned Rorem observed, \"He was deeply devout and uncontrollably sensual\"; this still leads some critics to underrate his seriousness. His uncompromising adherence to melody, both in his lighter and serious works, has similarly caused some to regard him as unprogressive. Although he was not much influenced by new developments in music, Poulenc was always keenly interested in the works of younger generations of composers. Lennox Berkeley recalled, \"Unlike some artists, he was genuinely interested in other people's work, and surprisingly appreciative of music very far removed from his. I remember him playing me the records of Boulez's \"Le marteau sans maître\" with which he was already familiar when that work was much less well-known than it is today.\" Boulez did not take a reciprocal view, remarking in 2010, \"There are always people who will take an easy intellectual path. Poulenc coming after \"Sacre [du Printemps]\". It was not progress.\" Other composers have found more merit in Poulenc's work; Stravinsky wrote to him in 1931: \"You are truly good, and that is what I find again and again in your music\".\n\nIn his last years Poulenc observed, \"if people are still interested in my music in 50 years' time it will be for my \"Stabat Mater\" rather than the \"Mouvements perpétuels\".\" In a centenary tribute in \"The Times\" Gerald Larner commented that Poulenc's prediction was wrong, and that in 1999 the composer was widely celebrated for both sides of his musical character: \"both the fervent Catholic and the naughty boy, for both the Gloria and Les Biches, both Les Dialogues des Carmélites and Les Mamelles de Tirésias.\" At around the same time the writer Jessica Duchen described Poulenc as \"a fizzing, bubbling mass of Gallic energy who can move you to both laughter and tears within seconds. His language speaks clearly, directly and humanely to every generation.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312355", "title": "Gametogenesis", "text": "Gametogenesis\n\nGametogenesis is a biological process by which diploid or haploid precursor cells undergo cell division and differentiation to form mature haploid gametes. Depending on the biological life cycle of the organism, gametogenesis occurs by meiotic division of diploid gametocytes into various gametes, or by mitosis. For example, plants produce gametes through mitosis in gametophytes. The gametophytes grow from haploid spores after sporic meiosis. The existence of a multicellular, haploid phase in the life cycle between meiosis and gametogenesis is also referred to as alternation of generations.\n\nAnimals produce gametes directly through meiosis in organs called gonads (testis in males and ovaries in females). Males and females of a species that reproduce sexually have different forms of gametogenesis:\n\n\nHowever, before turning into gametogonia, the embryonic development of gametes is the same in males and females.\n\nGametogonia are usually seen as the initial stage of gametogenesis. However, gametogonia are themselves successors of primordial germ cells (PGCs) from the dorsal endoderm of the yolk sac migrate along the hindgut to the gonadal ridge. They multiply by mitosis, and, once they have reached the gonadal ridge in the late embryonic stage, are referred to as gametogonia. Once the germ cells have developed into gametogonia, they are no longer the same between males and females.\n\nFrom gametogonia, male and female gametes develop differently - males by spermatogenesis and females by oogenesis. However, by convention, the following pattern is common for both:\n\nIn vitro gametogenesis (IVG) is the technique of developing in vitro generated gametes, i.e., \"the generation of eggs and sperm from pluripotent stem cells in a culture dish.\" This technique is currently feasible in mice and will likely have future success in humans and nonhuman primates.\n\nFungi, algae, and primitive plants form specialized haploid structures called gametangia, where gametes are produced through mitosis. In some fungi, such as the Zygomycota, the gametangia are single cells, situated on the ends of hyphae, which act as gametes by fusing into a zygote. More typically, gametangia are multicellular structures that differentiate into male and female organs:\n\n\nIn angiosperms, the male gametes (always two) are produced inside the pollen tube (in 70% of the species) or inside the pollen grain (in 30% of the species) through the division of a generative cell into two sperm nuclei. Depending on the species, this can occur while the pollen forms in the anther (pollen tricellular) or after pollination and growth of the pollen tube (pollen bicellular in the anther and in the stigma). The female gamete is produced inside the embryo sac of the ovule.\n\nMeiosis is a central feature of gametogenesis, but the adaptive function of meiosis is currently a matter of debate. A key event during meiosis is the pairing of homologous chromosomes and recombination (exchange of genetic information) between homologous chromosomes. This process promotes the production of increased genetic diversity among progeny and the recombinational repair of damage in the DNA to be passed on to progeny. To explain the adaptive function of meiosis (as well as of gametogenesis and the sexual cycle), some authors emphasize diversity, and others emphasize DNA repair. \n\n"}
{"id": "2224079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224079", "title": "George E. Danielson", "text": "George E. Danielson\n\nGeorge Elmore Danielson (February 20, 1915 – September 12, 1998) was an American Democratic politician and judge from California. He served in the United States House of Representatives from 1971 to 1982.\n\nBorn in Wausa, Nebraska, Danielson attended Wayne State Teachers College before earning his B.A. and J.D. from the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 1937 and 1939, respectively. He was a special agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1939 to 1944 and served in the United States Navy Reserve from 1944 to 1946. He was an Assistant United States Attorney from 1949 to 1951 and thereafter entered private practice.\n\nDanielson was twice elected to the California State Assembly, serving from 1963 to 1967, and to the California State Senate, serving from 1967 to 1971. In 1970, he was elected to his first of six terms to the U.S. House of Representatives. He served on the House Judiciary Committee during the impeachment proceedings against President Richard Nixon and voted in favor of three of the articles. Danielson resigned from Congress on March 9, 1982 after being appointed an associate justice on the California Court of Appeal in the Second District, Division Three by Governor Jerry Brown.\n\nDanielson retired from the bench in April 1992. He died on September 12, 1998 of heart failure in Monterey Park, California.\n"}
{"id": "11760859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11760859", "title": "George Weber (radio personality)", "text": "George Weber (radio personality)\n\nGeorge Weber (March 23, 1961 – March 20, 2009) was an American radio personality on the ABC Radio Network doing hourly news updates. For several years he was on the WABC 77 morning show, with Curtis Sliwa and Ron Kuby in New York City. He did periodic news updates throughout the morning, as well as joining in conversation with the hosts about those news stories. He was found stabbed to death in his home on March 20, 2009, at the age of 47.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Weber began his radio career at WBUX (AM) in Doylestown. He then went on to WAEB in Allentown, where he worked for two and a half years as a reporter and news anchor. After contacting Phil Boyce, then news director at Denver station KIMN, he received an offer to be a street reporter and anchor with that station. Two and a half years later (after KIMN's demise) Weber went to crosstown rival KOA, where he began a new career as the host of a night-time talk show. Some other important stops on his way to a full-time job with WABC were KGO, KOGO, KTLK, and KMPC. As a former tobacco user, he has been featured in radio advertisements for \"KickTheHabitNow.com\".\n\nWeber was fired by WABC at the same time as John R. Gambling in February 2008. Financial problems at ABC, coupled with the fact that ABC's new morning show \"Imus in the Morning\" had its own newsman, Charles McCord, led to his dismissal. In April 2008, Weber obtained a new assignment doing news updates for the ABC Radio Network.\n\nA number of Weber's stories and investigations were based around experiences in his private life. He often reported about his neighborhood in New York and his two dogs featured in some of his stories. The last story on his website was published on the same day he died, March 20, 2009, and described an outbreak of bed bugs around his Carroll Gardens neighborhood.\n\nOn Friday, March 20, 2009, George Weber was killed in his Brooklyn apartment on Henry Street. A co-worker became concerned when he didn't show up for work on Saturday, so police were dispatched to Weber's apartment on Sunday at 12:30am, but they noticed nothing amiss, and left. When the co-worker called again at 8:30 a.m., cops returned to the building, where a neighbor said he heard water running in the newsman's apartment all night. Police entered the apartment and discovered Weber's body, with his hands and feet bound. Weber had been stabbed more than 50 times in the neck, chest and arms, and his guest bedroom had been ransacked. The water was still running in the apartment's bathtub and kitchen sink, and investigators believe Weber's killer used the water to clean himself after the murder. Authorities said there was no sign of forced entry.\n\nOn March 25 police arrested 16-year-old student John Katehis of East Elmhurst, Queens, New York for the murder. He was lured to a rendezvous with detectives by his father, who promised to give him $300, and was arrested without incident. Katehis confessed to the crime when apprehended, also claiming to be a Satanist and a sadomasochist. Katehis told police that he and Weber had met through a personal ad Weber had posted on Craigslist for \"rough sex,\" but stabbed Weber in self-defense after Weber tried to stab him. This led to the media referring to Katehis as a Craigslist killer.\n\nKatehis was charged as an adult with second-degree murder and criminal possession of a weapon, and pleaded not guilty, despite his confession. Katehis's lawyer claimed there was an ongoing relationship between Weber and Katehis. Following a mistrial, Katehis was convicted in 2011 at retrial, and sentenced to 25 years to life. Author David McConnell, in his book \"American Honor Killings: Desire and Rage Among Men\" explored the Katehis case as a main example of lethal hate crimes on homosexual men where the perpetrators exhibited some degree of homosexuality themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "632799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632799", "title": "Granville Elliott", "text": "Granville Elliott\n\nMajor-General Granville Elliott, 1st Count Elliott (7 October 1713 – 10 October 1759), was a British military officer who served with distinction in several other European armies and subsequently in the British Army. He fought at the Battle of Minden where he was wounded, dying of his injuries several weeks later.\n\nElliott was born at Byfeld House, Church Road, Barnes, Surrey to Major-General Roger Elliott (c. 1665 – 15 May 1714) and his wife Charlotte (née Elliot, c. 1692 - c. 1753). A member of the Eliot family, he was baptised on 27 October 1713 at St Mary the Virgin's Church, Barnes. His godparents were George Granville, 1st Baron Lansdowne and Mrs Killigrew.\n\nWhen Elliott was less than one year old, his father died and he was brought up by his mother and her new husband, Captain Thomas Burroughs. Later that decade, he was made a ward of his mother's younger brother Colonel William Elliot (c. 1704 – 1764). In 1725, Elliott was admitted to Dr Dunster's Academy in Little Marlborough Street, London, and in 1730 he matriculated as a Law Student at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands.\n\nBy 1732, Elliott was in the service of the HM Karl Philipp von Pfalz-Neuburg, Elector Palatine of the Rhine. On 7 March 1735, ahead of his marriage on 15 March 1735 at Mannheim to Jeanne Thérèse du Han, Comtesse de Martigny and lady of honour to the Empress of Germany (30 October 1707 – 7 May 1748), he was created a Chamberlain to his Majesty Charles VI and raised to the title of Comte de Morhange in the Moselle region, later being made an Imperial Count. To facilitate the marriage, Elliott converted to Catholicism, and took the forename Joseph, which caused him problems with his mother's Calvinist relatives. In August 1736, he and his mother swore oaths at the College of Arms in London that the Elliott family descended from a legal marriage of Richard Eliot (b. 1614 - unknown), the wayward second son of Sir John Eliot (1592–1632) to Catherine Killigrew (1617–1689), daughter of Sir Robert Killigrew (1580–1633) and Mary Woodhouse (CIR 1584 - 1655). However, the two oaths differed in some details, and no independent evidence for any marriage of Richard has ever come to light. Moreover, Catherine Killigrew was still described as spinster in 1655 when she executed her mother's will. As a result, Elliott was not recognised by the College of Arms as a legitimate relative of the then Lord Eliot of Port Eliot in Cornwall, ancestors of the present Earls of St Germans. Nevertheless, Granville Elliott had a pedigree drawn up (which survives today) and formally presented to him in Paris by the British Ambassador / Plenipotentiary. As a result of this device, Elliott became known at the Elector's Court as Comte Eliot de Port-Eliot, and Graf Eliot von Port-Eliot.\n\nOn 29 October 1736, Elliott was promoted to the rank of Colonel, taking over the colonelcy of the Carabinier Regiment on 1 February 1737, and the Dragoons Regiment on 10 July 1738. In 1737, Elliott was appointed Cavalry General of the States General of the Netherlands, the legislature of the Dutch Republic. A few years later, he was working at Lunéville, at the court of the exiled King Stanislaus I of Poland who had become Duke of Lorraine and Bar. On 22 April 1745, he was promoted to Major-General of Cavalry for the Elector Palatine; on 24 June 1746, to Lieutenant-General of Cavalry, and, on 2 November 1748, to Lieutenant-General of Cavalry for the States General of the Netherlands.\n\nElliott and his wife appeared regularly in the Madame de Graffigny correspondence, usually under his baptised name Joseph or his familiar name Cotoco. His wife died on 7 May 1748, and this caused a substantial change of direction for Elliott. He left his grown-up family with their French relatives, returned to the UK, forsook his Catholicism and repaired the bridges with his mother's relatives. It appears that Elliott did not subsequently contact his French family, although there was no known ill-will between them.\n\nBack in the UK, he remarried, on 3 September 1750, to Elizabeth Duckett (25 June 1724 - October 1804) at St. Mary Magdalen Old Fish Street, London. However, he soon returned to the service of the States General of the Netherlands, and was appointed Major-General of the Scotch Brigade. The first child of his second marriage was born in the Netherlands although later children would be born at their home in Kew.\nOn 21 April 1758, Elliott was made Major-General in the British Army, and appointed Colonel of the 61st Regiment of Foot - \"The Glorious Glosters\". That summer, he was a Staff Officer on the army expedition to St Malo, and, from 5 July 1758 to 31 August 1758, he received a short-term commission as Colonel and Lieutenant-General in the Dutch Army. The Seven Years' War had arrived, and Elliott's knowledge of continental warfare was significant. In early 1759, he returned to continental Europe, as part of a massive British army deployment. At the Battle of Minden, on 1 August 1759, he commanded the Cavalry Regiment under John Manners, Marquess of Granby. Manners was himself second in command to Sir George Sackville, who was later cashiered for his inaction at the battle. Despite this chain of command, Elliott saw significant action in battle, and was seriously wounded. He retired to convalesce at army headquarters in Rodheim an der Bieber, Gießen, Hesse, Germany, but died there 9 weeks later on 10 October 1759 from the wounds incurred. He was buried with military honours in the local 13th century church at Krofdorf on 12 October; Prince Ferdinand of Brunswick attended the funeral. A brass commemorative plaque was erected during the 20th century by his British descendants in the church.\n\nLight Cavalry was introduced into the British Army as a direct result of advice from General Granville Elliott.\n\nGranville Elliott married twice.\n\nFirstly, on 15 March 1735 at Mannheim, to Jeanne Thérèse du Han, Comtesse de Martigny (30 October 1707 – 7 May 1748), by whom he had at least six sons and a daughter.<br>\n\nSecondly, on 3 September 1750 at St. Mary Magdalen Old Fish Street, to Elizabeth Duckett (25 June 1724 - October 1804), by whom he had at least three sons and three daughters. Elizabeth was a niece of Sir George Duckett. Of the children of his second marriage, Francis Perceval Eliot and his descendants continued the family's close connection with British armed forces. Francis also re-established contact with his French half-siblings.\n\nUpon Elliotts death in 1759 his titles passed to his oldest living son Amable Gaspard Antoine Elliott. Amble chose his half-brother Francis Perceval Eliot to succeed him as Count Eliot. Francis thought this was not proper and died without assuming the title.\n\n"}
{"id": "33553132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33553132", "title": "HNLMS K XVI", "text": "HNLMS K XVI\n\nHNLMS \"K XVI\" was one of five s built for the Royal Netherlands Navy (RNN). Entering service in 1934, the submarine was deployed to the Netherlands East Indies. On 24 December 1941, \"K XVI\" torpedoed and sank the ; the first Allied submarine to sink a Japanese warship. A day later, the Dutch submarine was torpedoed by the Japanese submarine \"I-66\" (later renumbered to be I-166) off Borneo, with all aboard killed. The wreck of \"K XVI\" was rediscovered in October 2011 by a group of recreational divers.\n\n\"K XVI\" was ordered from Rotterdam-based shipbuilder Rotterdamsche Droogdok Maatschappij on 30 May 1929, and was laid down on 31 May 1930. The submarine was launched on 8 April 1933, and commissioned into the RNN on 31 January 1934.\n\nIn January 1935, the boat was deployed to the Netherlands East Indies. She remained in this area after the start of World War II.\n\nOn 24 December 1941, approximately off Kuching, the submarine torpedoed and sank the . The destroyer's aft magazine caught fire and exploded, sinking the ship with 121 of the 241 personnel aboard killed. Later that evening, the submarine attempted to attack the destroyer , but was fended off by depth charges.\n\n\"K XVI\" was torpedoed by the a day later, and sank with all 36 aboard. The boat was one of seven Dutch submarines lost during World War II.\n\nOn 25 October 2011, the Dutch Ministry of Defence announced that the wreck of \"K XVI\" had been found by Australian and Singaporean recreational divers off the northern coast of Borneo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10721721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10721721", "title": "Hamsterz Life", "text": "Hamsterz Life\n\nHamsterz Life is a hamster simulation video game released by Ubisoft for the Nintendo DS. \"Hamsterz Life\" is also known as \"Love ♥ Hamster\" or \"Love Love Hamster\" in Japan.\n\n\"Hamsterz Life\" is from the Petz series from Ubisoft for the handheld systems. Being released after \"Petz 5\", it is part of the second Petz series. \"Hamsterz Life\" lets you raise several breeds of hamsters and build fully customizable homes for them to live in. Just as in the other Petz games, players can interact with their hamsters by training, playing with, and feeding them.\n\nAt the start of the game, players can select their first hamster and name it. The hamster will then appear in a cage and be ready to play. Various actions can be chosen including training, feeding, care and other options. Training consists of teaching the hamster words (which they repeat back in their own hamster speak) by speaking the set phrases into the DS microphone. The hamster can repeat these phrases back, but inaudibly. Players can clean the cage and brush their hamsters. Hamsterz Life also includes many mini-games to play. Players can only have one hamster at home at once, any other hamsters that are owned are left with a girl with hamster ears until you wish to switch. Your hamsters can visit with the hamsters of friends who also own Hamsterz Life. When playing mini-games, if you win you receive prizes such as food or toys. You can also let your hamster out of its cage to play in the surrounding room. There are present boxes in the room, which contain prizes you receive when your hamster finds them.\n\nHamsterz Life contains a variety of different cages used for housing a pet hamster. They include Standard, Steel, Toy Box, Pastel, Plant and Wood. Each cage has its own theme song. Toys can be put into the cage for the hamsters to play with. The roller coaster, the slide and the tube cannot be placed into the Standard and Steel cages, for they are too small to fit large items. \nThe standard cage is the cage you will start out with when you start the game. As you play mini-games, you may win cages.\n\nDifferent types of hamsters are shown in the game as you choose your pet hamster. There is Djungarian, Golden, Campbell, Cutie, Baby and Panda hamsters. Each will start out as a pup and eventually grow into an adult. You can play mini-games to win toys for your hamsters and teach them how to say basic phrases such as \"hello\" and \"good-bye\".\n\nHammy is a hamster girl seen in the game. She appears as a girl with brown hair and hamster ears. She is also seen wearing an apron with a yellow dress underneath. She explains how to do things throughout the game such as how to play mini-games, taking care of your hamster. She is also there to help pick out a hamster. When switching for a visiting hamster, Hammy takes them and takes care of them until you come back to swap your current hamster for another that you already have.\n"}
{"id": "7583972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7583972", "title": "Henry, Margrave of the Franks", "text": "Henry, Margrave of the Franks\n\nHenry (died 28 August 886) was the leading military commander of the last years of the Carolingian Empire. He was commander-in-chief under Kings Louis the Younger and Charles the Fat. His early career was mostly restricted to East Francia, his homeland, but after Charles inherited West Francia in 884 he was increasingly active there. During his time, raids by the Vikings (mainly Danes) peaked in Francia. The sources describe at least eight separate campaigns waged by Henry against the Vikings, most of them successful.\n\nHenry is described in the sources as a Saxon, Frank or Thuringian. His title is given variously as count (Latin \"comes\"), margrave (\"marchensis\") or duke (\"dux\"). The territory he governed is described variously in the sources as Francia, Neustria or Austrasia, perhaps indicating that his military command covered most of the north of the empire from the Breton March in the west to Frisia and Saxony in the east.\n\nHenry's family has been called the Popponids (German \"Popponen\") because the name Poppo was particularly common among them. It is speculated that he was a son of Count Poppo of Grapfeld, or perhaps of Poppo's son, Christian I of Grapfeld, and his wife, Heilwig. His brother was Poppo, Duke of Thuringia. The Popponids were probably related to the Hattonids, and Henry may have \"inherited\" his positions in Saxony (from Banzleib) and in Austrasia (from Banzleib's brother Adalbert).\n\nHenry's wife was probably Ingeltrude, daughter Duke Eberhard of Friuli and Gisela, a daughter of Emperor Louis the Pious. If this is true, Henry would have been related through his wife to the Carolingian ruling house. A memorial book of the abbey of Reichenau names a Henry (\"Heimirich\") and an Ingeltrude (\"Engildrud\") side by side.\n\nHenry had three sons, all of whom died during the so-called Babenberg feud with the rival Conradine family:\n\nWidukind of Corvey calls Adalbert a \"close relative through his sister\" of King Henry I of Germany, which led Emil Kimpen to conclude that Henry I's mother, Hathui (Hedwig, Hadewig), was Adalbert's sister and Duke Henry's daughter. This suggestion has been widely accepted, not least because it explains the adoption of the name Henry by Henry I's family, the Liudolfings. In this case, it is through Duke Henry that the name ultimately entered the East Frankish (German) and West Frankish (French) royal families, the Ottonians and Capetians. Hathui married Duke Otto of Saxony. Their son, Henry I, had a daughter, Hedwig, named after her grandmother, who married Hugh the Great and became the mother of Henry I, Duke of Burgundy, and great-grandmother of King Henry I of France.\n\nThe House of Babenberg, which governed the March of Austria from 976 until 1246, is generally regarded as descending from the Popponids, possibly through an unnamed daughter of Henry. The names of the children—Henry, Ernest, Poppo, Adalbert and Leopold—of the first known Babenberger, Margrave Leopold I, are strongly suggestive of a link with Henry.\n\nHenry is described by Abbo Cernuus in his \"Bella Parisiacae urbis\" as a Saxon. It is more likely he was a Thuringian.\n\nHenry is described by the \"Annals of Fulda\" as the \"leader of the army\" (\"princeps militiae\") of Louis the Younger when the latter rebelled against his father, King Louis the German, in 866. Louis was joined in his revolt by his younger brother, Charles the Fat. The brothers may have been upset by the grant of Bavaria to their older brother, Carloman, as a sub-kingdom in 864. During the short revolt, Louis sent Henry on a mission to Duke Rastislav of Moravia. The rebellion was soon patched up, however, and Louis received Saxony as a sub-kingdom, while Charles got Alemannia.\n\nIn 871, a Saxon vassal of Henry's was blinded on the orders of Louis the German, which prompted Louis the Younger and Charles to temporarily cut off relations with their father in solidarity with Henry. Nothing is known of Henry's reaction to this incident. It has been suggested that Louis the German took advantage of his sons' insubordination to remove Henry from power in Saxony and replace him with Duke Bruno (brother of the aforementioned Otto, who probably married Henry's daughter).\n\nIn 876, Louis the German died and his sons became kings in full in their respective sub-kingdoms. Henry remained in the service of Louis the Younger. In 880, he was sent with Count Adalhard of Metz to make war on Count Theobald of Arles, the chief commander of the army of Hugh of Lotharingia, Louis's second cousin who had been excluded from the succession. According to the \"Annals of Fulda\", Henry won a \"bloody victory\". The victorious army then joined the rest of Louis the Younger's forces and marched on Mâcon, which they took from the rebel leader Boso, who had made himself king in Burgundy and Provence in opposition to the Carolingians.\n\nLouis the Younger died in January 882 and was succeeded by Charles the Fat, who thus reunited the East Frankish kingdom of Louis the German. Under Charles, Henry's career is a succession of battles with Viking raiders. Charles almost immediately sent Henry with an army to besiege Asselt, where an army of Vikings was encamped. According to the \"Annals of Fulda\", Henry and Charles's nephew Arnulf led the advance guard, with Henry in charge of the Frankish contingent and Arnulf leading the Bavarian troops. Charles arrived with the main force in May 882.\n\nHaving received oaths from the Viking leaders, the siege of Asselt was considered a success and the Frankish army withdrew. After his Christmas court in 882, the king sent Henry against some Vikings who had raided Deventer. According to the \"Annals of Fulda\", Henry \"settled matters as well as he could, and returned.\" In late 883, Henry marched against the Vikings again, inflicting severe losses on them. According to the \"Annals of Fulda\", \"it is said that not one escaped\". Henry, however, was wounded in the fighting.\n\nIn 884, Henry won two more victories over the Vikings, slaughtering them \"wherever they wanted to go to plunder\", according to the annalist of Fulda. Some Vikings who had been harrying West Francia then overwintered in the Hesbaye in 884–85. In early 885, Henry and Archbishop Liutbert of Mainz surprised them in their camp. The survivors fled by night, leaving their plunder behind. Henry and Liutbert are the most prominent men (after the Carolingian kings) in the latter part of the Mainz recension of the \"Annals of Fulda\". This is probably because its author was a partisan of Louis the Younger, as Henry and Liutbert had been Louis's chief advisors.\n\nIn 885, Godfrid, one of the Viking leaders at Asselt who had sworn oaths to Charles, taken baptism and received Frisia, was accused of plotting with the king's cousin Hugh to seize Lotharingia. Henry tricked him into a meeting and killed him with his followers. According to the \"Annals of Saint-Vaast\", one of Godfrid's followers, Gerolf, defected and plotted Godfrid's downfall with Henry. Henry then captured Hugh at Gondreville and handed him over to the emperor, who had him blinded and imprisoned in the monastery of Saint Gall.\n\nIn 885, a large Viking force laid siege to Paris. The defence of the city fell to Bishop Joscelin and Count Odo. According to the \"Annals of Saint-Vaast\", after the Vikings destroyed one of Paris's towers, Joscelin sent Count Herkenger of Melun to East Francia with specific instructions to ask Henry to come with an army.\n\nAs a result, in 886 Henry led the first army to relieve the siege. it was in the field from 9 February until 1 May, but its only actions were skirmishes with Vikings who occasionally strayed too far from their fortifications. By July, Charles himself was leading a huge army towards Paris. Henry was again sent off with an advance guard while the emperor was still at Metz. It was during this expedition that Henry's horse fell into a trap near Quierzy and he was cut off from his men and killed on 28 August. The same basic account of Henry's death is found in the \"Annals of Saint-Vaast\", the chronicle of Regino of Prüm and the \"Annals of Fulda\".\n\nThe deaths of Hugh and Henry in August placed Count Odo in a preeminent position in West Francia. While writers looking back tended to see him as succeeding his brother, Robert the Strong, directly, he did not in fact do so. Rather, the sudden deaths of the Hugh and Henry followed by that of the Emperor Charles less than two years later left a vacuum in the West that Odo was able to take advantage of to have himself elected king in 888.\n\nThe \"Annals of Fulda\" appear assign blame for Henry's death when recording that he was \"abandoned by his men\". Regino records that Henry was buried in the Abbey of Saint-Médard de Soissons. An eight-distich epitaph for Henry was added by an eleventh-century hand to a copy of Regino's chronicle. A marginal note beside Regino's account of Henry's death directs the reader to the epitaph, which appears at the end of the manuscript.\n\nBy 871, according to the \"Annals of Fulda\", Henry was a count (Latin \"comes\"), a title the annalist prefers him until the end of his life, even after he had attained higher rank. By contrast, Regino of Prüm, usually calls Henry a duke (\"dux\"), a title implying military command and the control of territory much larger than a county. Under the year 885, the \"Annals of Saint Vaast\" call Henry the Duke of the Austrasians (\"dux Austrasiorum\").\n\nThe \"Annals of Fulda\" describe Henry in 886 as \"the margrave of the Franks, who held Neustria at that time\" (\"marchensis Francorum, qui in id tempus Niustriam tenuit\"). This has been interpreted as \"a generalised military responsibility which included Neustria\". Karl Ferdinand Werner goes further, saying that \"in all the Frankish kingdoms properly so-called,\" that is, in Austrasia, Neustria and Franconia, \"Charles gave all powers to his commander-in-chief Henry.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Donald Jackman sees Henry's final command as restricted to Neustria proper, where he succeeded Hugh the Abbot after the latter's death on 12 May 886. According to Henry's epitaph, he was \"triarch\" (\"triarchos\") of the Saxons, Franks and Frisians, which may mean that he ruled over them simultaneously or in succession. Rule over Frisia may have indicated in fact a march in western Saxony bordering Frisia. Jackman favours three successive marcher commands for Duke Henry, while Matthias Becher suggests that \"triarchos\" is just a corruption of \"trimarchio\" (three-times margrave) under the influence of \"demarchus\" (people-ruler) and indicates that Henry acquired multiple marches simultaneously. There is no question that Henry in the reign of Charles the Fat was second only to the king in power.\n\n"}
{"id": "38931787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38931787", "title": "Humanin", "text": "Humanin\n\nHumanin is a peptide encoded in the mitochondrial genome by the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, MT-RNR2. Its structure contains a three-turn α-helix, and no symmetry.\n\nIn \"in vitro\" and animal models, it appears to have cytoprotective effects.\n\nHumanin is encoded in the mitochondrial genome by the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, MT-RNR2.\n\nThe expressed peptide contains a three-turn α-helix, and has no symmetry.\n\nThe length of the peptide depends on where it is produced. If it is produced inside the mitochondria it will be 21 amino acids long. If it is produced outside the mitochondria, in the cytosol, it will be 24 amino acids long. Both peptides have been shown to have biological activity.\n\nThe rat, \"Rattus norvegicus\", has a gene, \"rattin\", that encodes a 38 amino acid peptide homologous to humanin. The two genes produce cDNAs that show 88% sequence identity. The peptides are 81% identical, with the carboxyl terminal sequence 14 amino acids longer in rattin. Of the 24 amino acids in the rest of the sequence, 20 are the identical.\n\nExtracellular interaction with a tripartite receptor composed of gp130, WSX1, and CNTFR, as well as interaction with the formyl peptide receptor 2 (formylpeptide-like-1 receptor) have been published.\n\nIntracellular interaction with BAX, tBID, IGFBP3, and TRIM11 may also be required for the effects of humanin.\n\nHumanin was independently found by three different labs looking at different parameters. The first to publish, in 2001, was the Nishimoto lab, which found humanin while looking for possible proteins that could protect cells from amyloid beta, a major component of Alzheimer's disease. The Reed lab found humanin when screening for proteins that could interact with Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax), a major protein involved in apoptosis. The Pinchas Cohen lab independently discovered humanin when screening for proteins that interact with IGFBP3.\n\nExperiments using cultured cells have demonstrated that humanin has both neuroprotective as well as cytoprotective effects and experiments in rodents have found that it has protective effects in Alzheimer's disease models, Huntington's disease models and stroke models.\n\nHumanin is proposed to have myriad neuroprotective and cytoprotective effects. Both studies in cells and rodents have both found that administration of humanin or humanin derivatives increases survival and/or physiological parameters in Alzheimer's disease models. In addition to Alzheimer's disease, humanin has other neuroprotective effects against models of Huntington's disease, prion disease, and stroke. Beyond the possible neuroprotective effects, humanin protects against oxidative stress, atherosclerotic plaque formation, and heart attack. \nMetabolic effects have also been demonstrated and humanin helps improve survival of pancreatic beta-cells, which may help with type 1 diabetes, and increases insulin sensitivity, which may help with type 2 diabetes. In rats, the humanin analog appears to normalize glucose levels and reduce diabetes symptoms.\n\nRattin shows the same ability as humanin to defend neurons from the toxicity of beta-amyloid, the cause of degeneration in Alzheimer's Disease.\n\nSmall humanin-like peptides are a group of peptides found in the mitochondrial 16S rRNA, and also possess retrograde signaling functions.\n"}
{"id": "425375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425375", "title": "Jack Phillips (wireless officer)", "text": "Jack Phillips (wireless officer)\n\nJohn George Phillips (11 April 1887 – 15 April 1912) was a British telegraphist and senior wireless officer aboard the who died during its ill-fated maiden voyage in April 1912. As the ship was sinking, Phillips worked tirelessly to send messages to other ships to enlist their assistance with the rescue of \"Titanic\"s passengers and crew. Before the ship hit the iceberg, Phillips told Cyril Evans, the radio operator of , \"Keep out; Shut up! I am working Cape Race!\", when interrupted on-air by his counterpart warning him that \"Titanic\" was in the vicinity of an ice field.\n\nPhillips was born on 11 April 1887 in Farncombe, Surrey. The son of George Alfred Phillips, a draper and Ann (née Sanders), Phillip's family originally came from Trowbridge, Wiltshire, from a lineage of weavers, but moved to Farncombe around 1883. Phillips lived with his five siblings, of whom only two twin sisters survived to adulthood, above a draper's shop – Gammons – which his father managed in Farncombe Street. Educated at a private school on Hare Lane, then St John Street's School, Phillips sang as a choirboy at St John the Evangelist – Farncombe's church.\n\nHe finished school in 1902 and began working at the Godalming post office, where he learned telegraphy. He started training to work in wireless for the Marconi Company in March 1906, in Seaforth, and graduated five months later in August. Phillips's first assignment was on the White Star Line ship \"Teutonic\". He later worked on board Cunard's ; the Allan Line's \"Corsican\", \"Pretorian\" and ; and then Cunard's and . In May 1908, he was assigned to the Marconi station outside Clifden, Ireland, where he worked until 1911, when he was assigned to the and later, in early 1912, to the .\n\nIn March 1912, Phillips was sent to Belfast, Ireland, to be the senior wireless operator on board the \"Titanic\" for her maiden voyage. He was joined by junior wireless operator Harold Bride. Stories have appeared that Phillips knew Bride before \"Titanic\", but Bride insisted they had never met before Belfast. \"Titanic\" sailed for New York City, United States, from Southampton, England, on 10 April 1912, and during the voyage Phillips and Bride transmitted passengers' personal messages and received iceberg warnings and other navigational information from other ships. Phillips celebrated his 25th birthday the day after the voyage began.\n\nOn the evening of 14 April, in the wireless room on the boat deck, Phillips was sending messages to Cape Race, Newfoundland, working to clear a backlog of passengers' personal messages that had accumulated when the wireless had broken down the day before. Bride was asleep in the adjoining cabin, intending to relieve Phillips at midnight, two hours early. Shortly after 9:30 pm, Phillips received an ice warning from the steamship \"Mesaba\" reporting a large number of icebergs and an ice field directly in \"Titanic\"s path. Phillips acknowledged \"Mesaba\"s warning and continued to transmit messages to Cape Race. \" Mesaba\"s wireless operator waited for Phillips to report that he had given the report to the bridge, but Phillips continued working Cape Race. The message was one of the most important warnings \"Titanic\" received, but it was never delivered to the bridge.\n\nSecond Officer (Second Mate) Charles Lightoller reports in Chapter 31 of his autobiography: \n\nPhillips explained when I (Lightoller) said that I did not recollect any Mesaba report: \"I just put the message under a paper weight at my elbow, just until I squared up what I was doing before sending it to the Bridge.\" That delay proved fatal and was the main contributory cause to the loss of that magnificent ship and hundreds of lives. Had I as Officer of the Watch, or the Captain, become aware of the peril lying so close ahead and not instantly slowed down or stopped, we should have been guilty of culpable and criminal negligence.\n\nAt 10:55 pm, Phillips was again interrupted by another ship, this time the . \"Californian\"s only wireless operator, Cyril Evans, was reporting that they were stopped and surrounded by ice. \"Californian\"s relative proximity (and the fact that both Evans and Phillips were using spark gap wireless sets whose signals bled across the spectrum and were impossible to tune out) meant that Evans's signal was strong and loud in Phillips's ears, while the signals from Cape Race were faint to Phillips and inaudible to Evans. Phillips quickly sent back, \"Keep out; shut up, I'm working: Cape Race\", and continued communicating with Cape Race, while Evans listened a while longer before going to bed for the night.\n\nIt can be argued that this communication had important consequences: Firstly, Evans was giving a warning of ice, which, if heeded, could have prevented \"Titanic\"s sinking. Secondly, \"Californian\" was the closest ship to \"Titanic\". As the radio had been switched off by Evans, Phillips had no way of communicating with \"Californian\" should \"Titanic\" require immediate assistance, which she very soon did. However, others point out that several ice warnings had already been received and communicated to the captain, so he was aware that there was ice in the area, and a lookout had been posted.\n\nFurthermore, Evans did not request that the message be delivered to the bridge, and the crew of \"Californian\" did see the rockets from \"Titanic\" at 12:47 AM and woke their captain, who chose to ignore the rockets and returned to bed.\n\n\"Titanic\" struck an iceberg at 11:40 PM that night and began sinking. Bride had woken up and begun getting ready to relieve Phillips, when Captain Edward Smith came into the wireless room and told Phillips to prepare to send out a distress signal. Shortly after midnight, Captain Smith came in again and told them to send out the call for assistance and gave them \"Titanic\"s estimated position. Phillips began sending out the distress signal, code CQD, while Bride took messages to Captain Smith about which ships were coming to \"Titanic\"s assistance. At one point, Bride jokingly reminded Phillips that the new call was SOS and said, \"Send S.O.S., it's the new call, and it may be your last chance to send it.\" (A myth developed after the disaster that this was the first time SOS was used, but it had been used on other ships previously.)\n\nAfter taking a quick break, Phillips returned to the wireless room and reported to Bride: the forward part of the ship was flooded, and they should put on more clothes and lifebelts. Bride began to get ready, while Phillips went back to work on the wireless machine.\n\nThe wireless power was almost completely out shortly after 2:00 am, when Captain Smith arrived and told the men they had done their duty and were relieved. Bride later remembered being moved by the way Phillips continued working. While their backs were turned, a crew member (either a stoker or trimmer) snuck in and attempted to steal Phillips's lifebelt. Bride saw and grabbed the man as Phillips stood up and knocked the crew member out. The water was beginning to flood the wireless room as they both ran out of the wireless room, leaving the unconscious crewman where he fell. The men then split up, Bride heading forward and Phillips heading aft. This was the last time Bride saw Phillips.\nFor many years, there has been conflicting and contradictory information regarding the exact manner in which Phillips met his death. Many researchers have expressed the belief that Phillips managed to make it to the overturned lifeboat B, which was in the charge of Second Officer Charles Lightoller, along with Harold Bride.\n\nIn Lightoller's autobiography, \"Titanic and Other Ships\", he writes, \n\"Phillips, the senior wireless operator, standing near me, told me the different ships that had answered our call ...\"\n\n\"... As it turned out, the information from Phillips, and the calculation, were about right, though poor old Phillips did not live to benefit by it. He hung on till daylight came in and we sighted one of the lifeboats in the distance ...\"\n\n\"... I think it must have been the final and terrible anxiety that tipped the beam with Phillips, for he suddenly slipped down, sitting in the water, and though we held his head up, he never recovered. I insisted on taking him into the lifeboat with us, hoping there still might be life, but it was too late.\"\n\nBride reporting seeing Phillips's body as he boarded the \"Carpathia\".\n\nHowever, Lightoller's and Bride's claims about Jack Phillips are contradicted elsewhere by Archibald Gracie, who made it clear that the wireless operator who cheered up the occupants of the upturned collapsible by calling out the names of approaching ships was Harold Bride, not Jack Phillips (as Lightoller thought in 1934.) It is also clear from the accounts of Gracie and Lightoller that only one body was transferred from the collapsible onto boat #12. Bride stated that he knew the body of \"the man lying aft\" was transferred to #12—which was undoubtedly the body of the crewman mentioned by Gracie and which Lightoller (in 1912) agreed was the body of a crewman. Bride's assumption that the body of Phillips (which he never saw) was also taken on board the Carpathia was just that - an assumption (since he obviously did not see Phillips's body lying abandoned in #12 after the boat was emptied of living passengers.)\n\nThere are memorials to Jack Phillips in Nightingale cemetery, Farncombe and in the Phillips Memorial Cloister, part of the Phillips Memorial Ground, which lies to the north of Church of St. Peter & St. Paul, Godalming.\n\nTo mark the 100th anniversary of the sinking, the BBC World Service broadcast, on 10 April 2012, a radio documentary in the \"Discovery\" series, entitled \"Titanic – In Her Own Words\". The programme was conceived and created by Susanne Weber and was narrated by Sean Coughlan, who had previously written a book on the \"Titanic\" radio messages. The programme used voice synthesis to re-create \"... the strange, twitter-like, mechanical brevity of the original Morse code messages ... \" transmitted by \"Titanic\" and neighbouring ships. Messages often included the fashionable slang expressions of the time, such as \"old man\". The BBC noted that \"these messages were recorded at the time in copper-plate handwriting, now scattered across the world in different collections, but together forming a unique archive.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "459346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459346", "title": "James Laxer", "text": "James Laxer\n\nJames Robert Laxer (22 December 1941 – 23 February 2018), also known as Jim Laxer, was a Canadian political economist, historian, public intellectual, and political activist who served as a professor at York University. Best known as co-founder of the Waffle, on whose behalf he ran for the leadership of the New Democratic Party in 1971, he is the author of more than two dozen books, mostly on Canadian political economy and history.\n\nLaxer was born in Montreal, Quebec, on 22 December 1941 and was the son of Edna May (née Quentin) and Robert Laxer, a psychologist, professor, author, and political activist. His father was Jewish and his mother was from a Protestant family. Both were members of the Communist Party of Canada and its public face, the Labor-Progressive Party, with Robert Laxer being a national organizer for the party. The Laxers left the party, along with many other members, following Khrushchev's Secret Speech revealing Joseph Stalin's crimes, and the 1956 Soviet invasion of Hungary. James Laxer wrote about his experiences growing up during this period in his memoir \"Red Diaper Baby: A Boyhood in the Age of McCarthyism\". His father came to serve as a significant influence on his political worldview.\n\nHis paternal grandfather was a rabbi and his maternal grandfather was a minister and Christian missionary to China, where Laxer's mother was born. His brother, Gordon Laxer, would become a political economist, author, and founder of the Parkland Institute.\n\nHe received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Toronto and Master of Arts (following approval of his thesis \"French-Canadian Newspapers and Imperial Defence, 1899–1914\" in 1967) and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from Queen's University. He was an active student journalist both at \"The Varsity\" at the University of Toronto and later at the \"Queen's Journal\" and was elected president of Canadian University Press in 1965.\n\nLaxer was thrice married. He married Diane Taylor in 1965, from whom he was divorced in 1969. He married Krista Mäeots in 1969 with whom he would have two children: Michael and Katherine (known as \"Kate\"). They were separated at the time of her death in 1978. Laxer married Sandra Price in 1979 with whom he would have two more children: Emily and Jonathan.\n\nIn 1969, Laxer, along with his father Robert Laxer, Mel Watkins, and others, founded the Waffle, a left-wing group influenced by the New Left, the anti–Vietnam War movement, and Canadian economic nationalism, that tried to influence the direction of the New Democratic Party (NDP). Laxer was a principal author of their Manifesto for an Independent Socialist Canada in 1969 alongside Ed Broadbent and Gerald Caplan. The manifesto was debated at the 1969 federal NDP convention and was rejected by the delegates in favour of a more moderate declaration.\n\nIn 1971, Laxer ran for the leadership of the federal NDP and shocked the convention by winning one-third of the vote on the fourth and final ballot against party stalwart David Lewis. The Waffle was ultimately forced out of the NDP and briefly became a political party under the name Movement for an Independent Socialist Canada. Laxer and other Wafflers unsuccessfully ran for Parliament in 1974. This electoral failure led to the Waffle's demise, and Laxer concentrated on his work at York University, where he was a professor of political science for 47 years, and in broadcasting.\n\nIn 1981, he was hired as director of research for the federal NDP, but left in controversy in 1983 when he published a report critiquing the party's economic policy as being \"out of date\".\n\nLaxer hosted \"The Real Story\", a nightly half-hour current affairs program on TVOntario in the early 1980s. He also variously wrote a column and op-ed pieces for the \"Toronto Star\" from the 1980s until shortly before his death, as well as op-ed pieces for \"The Globe and Mail\". He also played \"Talleyrand\", a mock political insider, on CBC Radio's \"Morningside\" in the 1980s.\n\nLaxer co-wrote and presented the five-part National Film Board documentary series \"Reckoning: The Political Economy of Canada\" in 1986, which examined Canada's economic and political relationships with the United States and Canada's place in the changing global economy. Laxer and his co-writer won a Gemini Award in 1988 for Best Writing in an Information/Documentary Program or Series for episode one of \"Reckoning\" titled \"In Bed with an Elephant\". The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation refused to air the series due to its critical view of free trade with the United States, which was being negotiated at the time, and it aired instead on TVOntario and other educational channels in Canada as well as a number of PBS stations in the United States.\n\nA democratic socialist, Laxer believed that Canadian economic nationalism was a progressive force against the United States and American imperialism. He wrote extensively about the influence of American multinational corporations in the Canadian economy, particularly in the oil and gas industry, and his agitation helped lead to the creation of Petro-Canada. The creation of the Foreign Investment Review Agency, and the Canadian Development Corporation in the 1970s is also attributed in part to the work of Laxer, Watkins, and the Waffle. In the 1980s he strongly opposed the adoption of the Canada–US Free Trade Agreement, though he still believed that free trade agreements were capable of being used to the advantage of the political left through the entrenchment of social charters.\n\nLaxer died suddenly and unexpectedly in Paris of heart-related problems on 23 February 2018 while in Europe researching a book on Canada's role in the Second World War.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "211697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211697", "title": "Japanese destroyer Ikazuchi (1931)", "text": "Japanese destroyer Ikazuchi (1931)\n\n\"Ikazuchi\", built at the Uraga Dock Company, was the third of the “Type III” improved series of \"Fubuki\" destroyers, incorporating a modified gun turret which could elevate her main battery of Type 3 127 mm 50 caliber naval guns to 75° as opposed to the original 40°, thus permitting the guns to be used as dual purpose guns against aircraft. \"Ikazuchi\" was laid down on 7 March 1930, launched on 22 October 1931 and commissioned on 15 August 1932.\n\nConstruction of the advanced \"Akatsuki\"-class destroyers was authorized as part of the Imperial Japanese Navy's expansion program from fiscal 1923, intended to give Japan a qualitative edge with the world's most modern ships. The \"Akatsuki\" class had performance that was a quantum leap over previous destroyer designs, so much so that they were designated . The large size, powerful engines, high speed, large radius of action and unprecedented armament gave these destroyers the firepower similar to many light cruisers in other navies. The \"Akatsuki\" sub-class was an improved version of the \"Fubuki\", externally almost identical, but incorporating changes to her propulsion system.\n\nOn completion, \"Ikazuchi\" was assigned to Destroyer Division 6 along with her sister ships, , , and , under the IJN 1st Fleet and participated in operations in the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nAt the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor, \"Ikazuchi\" was assigned to Destroyer Division 6 of Desron 1 of the IJN 1st Fleet, and had deployed from Mako Guard District to provide cover for landing operations in the Invasion of Hong Kong. After assisting the cruiser in sinking British gunboats HMS \"Cicada\" and HMS \"Robin\", she helped secure Hong Kong Harbor. After the start of 1942, \"Ikazuchi\" deployed from Hong Kong to Davao, providing cover for landing operations during the Battle of Ambon, and Battle of Timor in the Netherlands East Indies.\n\nOn 2 March 1942, \"Ikazuchi\", along with \"Inazuma\", rescued 442 survivors from the Royal Navy destroyer and United States Navy destroyer . These ships had been sunk the previous day in the Second Battle of the Java Sea, along with the cruiser , in the Java Sea between Java and Borneo, off Surabaya. The survivors had been adrift for some 20 hours, in rafts and lifejackets or clinging to floats, many coated in oil and unable to see. Among the rescued was Sir Sam Falle, later a British diplomat.\nThis humanitarian decision by Lieutenant Commander Shunsaku Kudō placed \"Ikazuchi\" at risk of submarine attack, and interfered with her fighting ability due to the sheer numbers of rescued sailors. The action was later the subject of a book and a 2007 TV programme.\n\n\"Ikazuchi\" deployed from Ōminato Guard District in support of Admiral Boshiro Hosogaya’s Northern Force in the Aleutians campaign, patrolling waters around Kiska and Attu during June and July, and towing the damaged destroyer from Kiska back to Shimushu in the Chishima Islands. She continued to be assigned to northern patrols in the Chishima islands and Aleutian islands through the beginning of August.\n\nFrom September, \"Ikazuchi\" was reassigned as escort for the new aircraft carriers and , which the destroyer accompanied to Truk, and missions in the Solomon Islands and back to Kure Naval District.\n\nFrom October, \"Ikazuchi\" was used for numerous “Tokyo Express\" high speed transport runs throughout the Solomon Islands.\n\nOn 25 October 1942 \"Ikazuchi\", , and conducted a daylight raid into the waters off Guadalcanal. In the resulting action, the fast minesweeper was damaged and fleet tug and patrol craft \"YP-284\" were sunk before the Japanese ships were driven off by US Marine coastal artillery. \"Ikazuchi\" suffered light damage from strafing attacks by Allied aircraft, with four crewmen killed.\n\n\"Ikazuchi\" participated in the first night action of the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal on 13 November 1942. Stationed on the right flank of the battleships and with two other destroyers, she engaged several U.S. warships, among them the cruiser , and received hits to her forward gun mount, which caught fire. In the battle, 21 crewmen were killed and 20 injured, and she had to return to Truk for emergency repairs.\n\nAfter repairs at Yokosuka Naval Arsenal from December to the end of February 1943, \"Ikazuchi\" returned to the north Pacific, and was present at the Battle of the Komandorski Islands on 26 March but saw no action. On 30 March, she collided with the destroyer , suffering moderate damage.\n\n\"Ikazuchi\" was reassigned to Desron 11 of the IJN 1st Fleet on 1 April 1943. After repairs at Yokosuka, she returned to Truk, and escorted convoys between Truk and the Japanese home islands until mid-April 1944.\n\nUnder the command of Lieutenant Commander Ikunaga Kunio, on 13 April 1944, while escorting the transport \"Sanyō Maru\" to Woleai, \"Ikazuchi\" was torpedoed and sunk by the submarine , approximately south-southeast of Guam at position . There were no survivors.\n\nOn 10 June 1944, \"Ikazuchi\" was removed from the navy list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25072875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25072875", "title": "Jerry Thomas (politician)", "text": "Jerry Thomas (politician)\n\nJerry Aroe Thomas (born May 22, 1953) is a family practice physician in Franklinton, Louisiana, who served in both houses of the Louisiana State Legislature from 1988 to 2004. In 1979, at the age of twenty-six, Thomas was elected coroner of Washington Parish, the easternmost of the Florida Parishes in the southeastern portion of his state. He remained coroner from 1980 until he took his legislative seat in 1988.\n\nThomas was the son of Aroe Thomas (1930–1994) of Franklinton. He graduated from Thomas High School in Franklinton and received a Bachelor of Science degree from Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond in neighboring Tangipahoa Parish. He received his M.D. credentials from Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center New Orleans.\n\nThomas was initially elected as a Democrat to the Louisiana House of Representatives in the nonpartisan blanket primary held in October 1987. At the age of 34, Thomas unseated the long-term Democratic incumbent, Lawrence A. Sheridan of Angie in Washington Parish, who was 34 years Thomas' senior. District 75 still encompasses Tangipahoa and Washington parishes. Thomas polled 9,266 votes (60.2 percent) to Sheridan's 6,121 (39.8 percent). In 1991, Sheridan sought a comeback but again lost to Thomas by an identical percentage: 6,312 (39.8 percent) to 9,532 (60.2 percent). Sheridan had been chairman of the House Retirement Committee during much of his 28-year tenure in the House.\n\nIn 1995, Thomas won his last term in the House by defeating his successor in both the House and the Senate, Ben W. Nevers, an electrical contractor from Bogalusa. In October 1999, Nevers was unopposed for Thomas's former House seat. In the 1995 general election, Short had unexpectedly unseated the legendary B.B. \"Sixty\" Rayburn of Bogalusa. Rayburn's former district appeared to have turned solidly Republican in the special election of February 6, 1999, when the sole Democratic candidate, Stanley Middleton, polled only 9 percent of the vote. Republican-convert Thomas won the position outright in the first round of balloting with 51 percent of the vote.\n\nIn 1999, Thomas switched to Republican affiliation to enter the special election for the District 12 seat in the state Senate from St. Helena, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, and Washington parishes.\n\nIn October 1999, Thomas won the nonpartisan blanket primary for the full Senate term (2000–2004), again over Stanley Middleton, 76-24 percent. In 2002 Thomas pled no contest to one count of lewd conduct at an adult bookstore.(2002) Though he completed the final year of his Senate term, he did not run again in 2003.\n\nThomas is a member of the First Baptist Church of Franklinton. He has also been affiliated with the Chamber of Commerce, Rotary International, and the Washington Parish Livestock Association. He is married to the former Lou Ann Pitre (born February 26, 1954), and they are the parents of four children. Thomas has been active in many community affairs, including the building of a new branch library in Franklinton, the seat of Washington Parish.\n\nThomas served on the Senate committees of Agriculture, Transportation, Highways & Public Works, and Insurance. He was credited with assuring state funding of hospitals within his district during a time of budget cuts for such facilities. Thomas contributed to Republicans David Vitter and David C. Treen, when both contested the U.S. House special election in 1999. He also donated to future U.S. Senator Vitter as a congressman and to the gubernatorial campaigns of Bobby Jindal.\n"}
{"id": "2068373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2068373", "title": "List of airship accidents", "text": "List of airship accidents\n\nThe following is a partial list of airship accidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "28311992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28311992", "title": "List of genetic algorithm applications", "text": "List of genetic algorithm applications\n\nThis is a list of genetic algorithm (GA) applications.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "331948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331948", "title": "Lizard (comics)", "text": "Lizard (comics)\n\nThe Lizard (Curtis \"Curt\" Connors) is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is usually depicted as an enemy of Spider-Man. In 2009, The Lizard was ranked IGN's 62nd Greatest Comic Villain of All Time. In the stories, Dr. Connors was a genetic biologist who researched the ability of certain reptiles to regrow missing limbs, partially to find a way to regenerate his right arm. After a test on himself, he transforms into a violent lizard monster. Though able to revert to his human form, he suffers occasional fits of his alter ego breaking free.\n\nThe character has appeared in numerous \"Spider-Man\" cartoons and video games, and is portrayed by Dylan Baker (whose version never transformed into The Lizard) in the 2004 film \"Spider-Man 2\" and its 2007 sequel \"Spider-Man 3\", and by Rhys Ifans in the 2012 film \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", and has been voiced by Dee Bradley Baker in various voice-over media.\n\nThe Lizard first appeared in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #6 (November 1963), and was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko.\n\nCurtis \"Curt\" Connors was born in Coral Gables, Florida. He was a gifted surgeon who enlisted in the U.S. Army. He performed emergency battlefield surgery on wounded GIs. However his right arm was terribly injured in a wartime blast, resulting in its amputation.\n\nAfter his return to civilian life as a research technologist, Connors became obsessed with uncovering the secrets of reptilian limb regeneration. Working from his home in the Florida Everglades with the help of war buddy Ted Sallis, he finally developed an experimental serum taken from reptilian DNA. The serum successfully regrew the missing limb of a rabbit, so then Connors chose to test the serum on himself. He ingested the formula and his missing arm did indeed grow back.\n\nHowever, the formula had a side effect. Connors was subsequently transformed into a reptilian humanoid monster. Spider-Man discovered this situation during a trip to Florida to investigate newspaper reports of the Lizard after his employer the \"Daily Bugle\" challenged him. After discovering the Lizard's true identity and origin, Spider-Man used Connors' notes to create an antidote to restore him to his human form and mentality. Another attempt to develop this serum for safe use again resulted in Connors transforming into the Lizard, but on this occasion he was saved thanks to his former colleague Professor Charles Xavier and his first team of X-Men, Beast and Angel tracking the Lizard down in the swamps so that Iceman could send him into hibernation long enough to develop a cure.\n\nLater, Curt Connors relocated to New York City. He was able to repay Spider-Man by developing a formula to save May Parker's life after Peter Parker had given his aunt his radioactive blood during a transfusion, unintentionally putting her in mortal peril. It later became clear that the success of Connors' apparent cure from the Lizard persona was short-lived. A repeating pattern occurred, with stress or a chemical reaction turning Connors into the Lizard, Spider-Man fighting him, and then forming some kind of temporary cure to reverse the transformation until the next time. A second personality had formed with the Lizard, one with the familiar goal shared by many villains of taking over the world. The Lizard envisioned a world where all humans had been transformed into (or replaced by) super-reptiles like himself. Despite the Lizard's overall hatred of humans, he was often shown to be unwilling to harm his wife Martha or young son Billy.\n\nAs Connors, he aided Spider-Man in defeating the Rhino by developing a formula to dissolve the Rhino's bullet-proof hide, but accidentally transformed himself into the Lizard due to exposure to the chemicals needed to create the formula and was restored by Spider-Man. Connors was later kidnapped and forced to create a rejuvenation serum for Silvermane. However, the stress from this caused Connors to transform, the Lizard battled Spider-Man and the Human Torch, and was then restored to normal once again by Spider-Man.\n\nDuring another encounter with Spider-Man after Peter's attempts to remove his powers resulted in him growing four extra arms, a bite from Morbius endowed the Lizard with Connors' personality via the infection of a strange enzyme. Connors then synthesized an antidote for himself and Spider-Man using the Morbius enzyme. Curt Connors later aided Spider-Man, Ka-Zar, and the Black Panther against Stegron. After the apparent death of the Jackal, Dr. Connors determined that Spider-Man was not a clone. Later, the Lizard battled with Stegron and Spider-Man after Stegron kidnapped Billy Connors. For a time, Peter Parker worked as a teaching assistant to Dr. Connors at Empire State University, although Connors had no idea that Peter was actually Spider-Man.\n\nDuring the first of the Secret Wars, the Lizard refused to participate on either side of the conflict. Although he was collected by the Beyonder along with other villains, he broke away from the main group after the first battle to settle in a swamp, where he befriended the Wasp, who had helped him treat an injury he sustained in the first battle. After the Lizard was blasted by the magic of the Enchantress, he reverted to human form. After Connors' return from this event, his wife took their son Billy and separated from Curt. The Lizard had apparently been affected by inter-dimensional teleportation so that Connors' mind presided over the Lizard, and battled the Owl alongside Spider-Man. However, mystical activity during the \"Inferno\" crisis once again brought the Lizard's bestial nature to the fore, and Spider-Man cured him again.\n\nConnors then tried to straighten out his life and control the Lizard, with some degree of success. This ended when the villain Calypso used her voodoo magic to take control of the Lizard (during the \"Torment\" storyline) for her own purposes, reducing him to a mindless, savage state. After a series of bloody battles, the Lizard and Calypso were defeated by Spider-Man, and Spider-Man assumed that he perished under Calypso's spell. Connors once again gained control of the Lizard's mind and body, although it was very weak. Curt carried out a plan to cure himself temporarily, after which he voluntarily submitted to incarceration in the supervillain prison the Vault. When Calypso forced the transformation and attempted to control the Lizard once again, the creature killed her and escaped from the Vault. After this escape, the Lizard fell into a quicksand pit during a battle with Spider-Man and the bounty hunter Warrant and was believed to have died.\n\nLater, a huge bestial Lizard appeared, shortly after Connors was called in to investigate Peter Parker's sudden sickness (the result of Peter's recently lost spider-powers returning). Spider-Man (Ben Reilly) realized that not only had the Lizard survived, but revealed later his new monstrous transformation seemed to be permanent and the personality of Curt Connors appeared completely lost. However, when this savage mindless Lizard later unexpectedly encountered Dr. Connors himself while Connors was helping Peter, Curt became the true Lizard once again and saved his family by killing the \"Lizard-clone\". It was revealed that the Lizard-clone was a scientific accident resulting from an experimental formula being tested on a piece of the original Lizard's tail, which had then grown into a fully formed second creature.\n\nAlthough reunited after Curt's apparent death, Martha and Billy were diagnosed with cancer after being exposed to carcinogens from living near an industrial lab in Florida. Spider-Man assisted Curt in successfully forcing Monnano, the lab's owner, to admit culpability, but Martha died from her cancer. Billy recovered but remained bitter towards his father. Curt's guilt and internalized anger led him to become the Lizard once again, and once human, Curt attempted a bank robbery so he would be sent to prison. After a short-lived term, Connors was released and changed into the Lizard once more, this time due to a scheme by Norman Osborn to form the Sinister Twelve to kill Spider-Man. The Sinister Twelve were defeated and captured by the combined forces of Daredevil, the Fantastic Four, and the Avengers.\n\nThe Lizard resurfaced to face Spider-Man with the aid of Billy Connors, who was changed into an adolescent Lizard by his father. Both the Lizard and his son were captured and reverted. Billy's transformational ability has been ignored since. A new Sinister Six team, including new member Lizard, appeared during the superhero \"Civil War\", but it was stopped by Captain America and his Secret Avengers.\n\nPost-\"Civil War\", Curt Connors aided Spider-Man in developing a cure for the victims of Mister Hyde who were mutated with unstable versions of Spider-Man's powers. Dr. Connors has also monitored the progress of the hero Komodo, a female grad student who stole a sample of Connors' Lizard formula. She modified the formula for her own DNA to grow back her missing legs and to give herself reptilian powers.\n\nDoctor Curt Connors appeared in the 2008 \"\" storyline, where he experimented with animal stem cells as well as aiding forensic specialist Carlie Cooper. New villain Freak (the third version) mistook Connors' stem cells experiment for drugs. Connors helped Spider-Man defeat Freak during their second encounter.\n\nDuring the events of \"The Gauntlet\", Curt Connors is working for the pharmaceutical company Phelcorp under executive Brian King. Connors has lost custody of his son, Billy. The Lizard persona tries to goad Connors to give it control, and he relents when his assistant sleeps with King. When he changes, the Lizard devours King. Peter Parker decides to protect Billy and swings to his foster parents' home, where he finds that Billy was kidnapped and his new parents held hostage by Ana Kravinoff. Ana has left Billy in an alley, where the Lizard eats him and destroys the Connors persona temporarily. The devouring of Billy causes the Lizard to gain a new form, sporting a leaner physique, long brown hair, spikes on its right forearm, human intelligence and the telepathic ability to communicate with the underdeveloped \"lizard part\" of human brains; he demonstrates the latter ability by hypnotizing Spider-Man into thinking that he has prey to stalk, causing the superhero to leave. Operating from the sewers, the Lizard hypnotizes several people into taking what they want. Away from the Lizard, Spider-Man ingests Connors' Lizard suppressant formula, which makes Spider-Man immune to the Lizard's mind controlling powers. Spider-Man then combats the Lizard, injects him with some of the formula and reveals he regrets what he has done: Connors' psyche is still in the Lizard's body. The Lizard disappears after the fight.\n\nDuring the \"Origin of the Species\", the Lizard joins Doctor Octopus's supervillain team and steals Menace's baby. As Doctor Octopus and Spider-Man fight within the Lizard's hideout, the Lizard at first attacks Spider-Man, but then gladly returns the baby. He reveals that he already took a blood sample from the baby and found out that Norman Osborn is not the father; therefore, the baby is useless to him and all the villains. Doctor Octopus, angry about the Lizard's hypnotism obstructing his intellect, attacks him while Spider-Man escapes with the baby. Both Doctor Octopus and the Lizard would survive this fight.\n\nA short time later, while investigating kidnappings in New York, the X-Men find themselves working with Spider-Man after they discover that the abductor is the Lizard, who has been turning the victims into lizard people while maintaining his control over the city's reptile population. The X-Men and Spider-Man discover that Lizard is being used by the Dark Beast, who has given the Lizard his 'reptilian shift' abilities by using a machine. During the battle, Lizard shifts Gambit, Storm, and Wolverine into lizard people, Emma Frost and Spider-Man escape the machine's effects, release the Lizard and use him to defeat Dark Beast, who is arrested while Lizard escapes.\n\nSometime later, Doctor Morbius discovers the Lizard had used DNA samples from Billy Connors' corpse to restore Curt Connors to humanity. Unfortunately, the Lizard's psyche is still present and is pretending to be Connors so that he will be left alone. Lizard/Connors releases blood into the air supply to provoke Morbius into attacking other lab workers. Lizard/Connors then tries to recreate his original Lizard formula so he can change again, but Morbius' cure instead only allows him to regrow his missing arm. Lizard/Connors then injects Max Modell and other Horizon Lab personnel with his formula to discover how to \"cure\" himself. Attempting to appear to be the \"normal\" Connors, Lizard/Connors cuts off his regrown limb, but the Lizard begins to appreciate human life, to the point that when he finds the correct Lizard serum, he contemplates remaining human, but he takes the cure when Spider-Man arrives and threatens him with custody. This results in yet another streamlined, new form. A new cure is developed for the lab employees he changed, but this formula fails on Lizard's new form; he is instead knocked out and taken to the Raft. Visiting him in the Raft, Spider-Man is unaware that the serum restored Connors' psyche and Connors remains in prison willingly, as he feels he deserves it for his actions as the Lizard.\n\nPeter Parker (whose mind was trapped within Doctor Octopus' dying body) is freed from the Raft by Trapster, Hydro-Man, and Scorpion. Trapster offers to free the Lizard, but Connors declines. When Morbius the Living Vampire manages to escape his cell, the Lizard points out that he still has nowhere to go. For unknown reasons, Morbius then frees the Lizard.\n\nThe Lizard is seen back in his cell, being one of the few inmates left to be transported out of the decommissioned Raft. When Alistair Smythe attempts an escape from the Raft, he temporarily shuts down the Raft's power, letting the Lizard out of his cell. The Lizard protects J. Jonah Jameson from Scorpion, revealing that he has the mind of Curt Conners, and that he \"will never let the monsters win again.\" Jameson defends the Lizard from the Raft's warden, calling him a hero, and protesting the use of a restraining device, though the Lizard himself prefers to be cautious. During Smythe's final escape attempt, the Lizard is impaled through the shoulder, but survives.\n\nAs part of the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel\" event as part of the lead-up to the \"\" storyline, Lizard is shown at the Andry Corrections Facility. He is escorted to the visitor's room and his restraints are removed. After the guards leave the visitor's room, Lizard meets the mysterious red-suited man where he claims to have met Curt Connors before. Lizard detects familiar scents accompanying the man, scents that can not be there, and warns him not to toy with the Lizard. The red-suited man replies that he is not the Lizard, inside he is Curt Connors, a model prisoner who saved Mayor J. Jonah Jameson and various civilians before and is trapped in a monster's body. Lizard lashes out at him, demanding to know how can the people he is smelling be there. The man says that the Lizard has abilities he can use and if he escapes and joins him, he can give him anything. He snaps his fingers and Martha Connors and Billy Connors step forward where they are somehow alive. The red-suited man asks if they have a deal. The Lizard tearfully accepts his deal. It is revealed that the revived Martha Connors and Billy Connors are clones that the red-suited man had gathered to grow clones with false memories that span all the way to their deaths. The Lizard and a depowered Electro are later sprung from Andry Corrections Facility by Rhino on the red-suited man's behalf. Lizard worked with Jackal on a procedure that would repower Electro. The first time it was interrupted, Lizard was present when Jackal summons a somehow-revived Francine appears in order to convince Maxwell to go through with it. The second time it was interrupted was when Martha Connors informed everyone present about a fire in Edmond, Oklahoma that neither of them was responsible for. While escaping from New U Technologies, Spider-Man and Spider-Woman of Earth-65 quickly incapacitate Lizard. When Doctor Octopus pulls a switch which activates the Carrion Virus in all of the clones and causes them to start rapidly decaying, Lizard sees that Martha Connors and Billy Connors are affected. During the ensuing battle, Lizard escapes with Martha and Billy as he vows to find a way to keep them from dying. In the sewers of San Francisco, Lizard has saved Martha and Billy Connors from the Carrion Virus by injecting them with the Lizard formula, turning his wife and son into lizard people like him.\n\nConnors is later shown having returned to Empire State University, now using a special chip implanted in the back of his neck to control his Lizard persona, with the chip acting as an inhibitor that stops him attacking humans. Teaching once again, Connors offers to support Peter Parker's efforts to re-apply for his doctorate after he was academically disgraced by accusations of plagiarism of Otto Octavius' thesis since Doctor Octopus' mind was in Peter's body at the time. The inhibitor proves a disadvantage when Connors' class is attacked by Taskmaster and Black Ant and he cannot defend himself.\n\nDr. Curtis Connors gave himself superhuman powers as a result of exposure to the Lizard Formula, allowing him to transform into the Lizard. In human form, he has none of his superhuman powers, but he is highly intelligent and a well known scientist in fields of genetics, physics, biochemistry, and herpetology.\n\nWhen Connors is transformed into the Lizard, his strength is increased to superhuman levels. Likewise, his speed, stamina, agility, and reflexes are also raised to a level equivalent to that of Spider-Man. He can also scale walls using a combination of his sharp claws and micro-scales on his hands and feet that create molecular friction like those of a gecko. He is highly resistant to injury due to his thick scaly hide, allowing him to resist punctures and lacerations from ordinary weapons and lower-caliber firearms. In addition, the Lizard has highly enhanced healing abilities which allow him to quickly recover from grievous wounds, including regenerating lost limbs. He also has a powerful tail which he can whip at high speeds. The Lizard has razor-sharp teeth set in muscular jaws that can deal a lethal bite (the latter is established in the Lizard's later appearances; in his earlier appearances he seems to have no teeth at all). Like a reptile, he has cold-blooded characteristics and is therefore sensitive to drops in temperature; a sufficiently cold environment will cause his metabolism to slow drastically and become dormant if he is exposed to cold temperatures for too long.\n\nThe Lizard can mentally communicate and command all reptiles within a mile of himself via limited telepathy. He has also on at least one occasion secreted powerful pheromones which caused nearby humans to behave violently. Post-\"Brand New Day\", a further enhancement of his telepathy granted him the power of telepathically compelling humans to act out their primal urges, by suppressing emotional control in their amygdala (the \"lizard brain\").\n\nBased on various physiological and environmental factors, the Lizard's intelligence can range from bestial and animalistic to normal human intelligence. The Lizard personality has most often manifested with human intelligence, capable of speech and higher reasoning, although some versions have been more feral than others. During the Secret Wars in particular, he appeared less ruthless than his normal portrayal, showing concern for Volcana and the Wasp after they showed him kindness despite his usual disdain for humans. However, even when operating at the level of a human, the Lizard is rarely as intelligent as Dr. Connors, showing on many occasions an inability to understand his human self's work and use it to further his own ends despite his best efforts.\n\nThe Lizard has apparently \"destroyed\" the Curt Connors persona, but has subsequently begun to display some of Connors's human emotions. In contrast to his previously feral nature, he has also shown sufficient intellectual capabilities to replicate Connors' work for himself, although he is still hampered by his inability to fully comprehend human emotions.\n\nIn a 2004 story arc entitled \"Lizard's Tale\", written by Paul Jenkins in the \"Spectacular Spider-Man\" comic book, it was revealed that the Lizard persona was not a separate personality from Dr. Connors after all - Curt had been consciously controlling his reptilian alter ego all along. Furthermore, Connors was shown to know that Peter Parker was Spider-Man, despite the discovery of the secret identity never being explained or depicted. The story ended with Dr. Connors deliberately getting himself sent to prison and hoping the Lizard would not be unleashed again. The Lizard's next appearance after this was as a member of the Sinister Twelve, where he showed no indication of being controlled by the mind of Dr. Connors. Although the idea of Connors controlling the Lizard was subsequently ignored, when the Lizard's mind was briefly trapped in Connors' human form, he attempted to mutate the staff of Horizon Labs into lizard people like himself, with none of the other lizards demonstrating the same hostility to humans as the Lizard, prompting Spider-Man to speculate that the Lizard's anti-human traits came from Connors' anger at the world for his lost arm and family rather than the Lizard being completely separate from Connors.\n\nAnother continuity-related issue involves Connors' son Billy. Unlike many other Marvel Comics children, he has not appreciably grown up since the comics' stories of the 1960s. Billy's visible age also seems to waver back and forth between approximately eight and 13 years old, depending on the particular comic artist drawing the character.\n\nIn this reality based on the \"Secret Wars\" Warzone, Billy used the Lizard serum on himself and is mutated like his father (though he is not as in control of himself as Curt). Curt and Billy try breaking into high tech facilities in an attempt to find Regent's tech to turn Billy back to normal, but are thwarted by Spider-Man and his daughter Spiderling. After defeating the reptilian father and son at Oscorp, Spider-Man contacts the Fantastic Four for help in curing Billy's condition.\n\nThe one comic storyline to date featuring the Ultimate Marvel universe version of Lizard appeared in \"Ultimate Marvel Team-Up\" #10. The character has appeared in a few subsequent issues of \"Ultimate Spider-Man\", but only in flashbacks and dream sequences. Lizard appears to be based on a basilisk lizard in design and has been presented as being less intelligent than the original Marvel iteration. Dr. Curt Conners is a noted geneticist who lost his right arm under unrevealed circumstances. He dedicated himself to finding a means of restoring lost limbs by studying the regenerative capabilities of reptiles. However, after five years without major breakthroughs, his sponsors were on the verge of cutting his funding. Drowning his disappointment with alcohol, a drunken Conners injected himself with an experimental serum in a desperate attempt to achieve results. The serum regenerated his right arm, but also transformed Conners into an inhuman reptilian creature. Seeking refuge in the sewers, he became an urban legend dubbed \"the Lizard\" by the press. A sympathetic Spider-Man sought out Lizard who attacked the young hero until Man-Thing happened upon the scene and restored Conners to human form. Conners' restored right arm soon withered and died. However, his DNA remained irreparably damaged with dormant potential for further transformation. Conners cut himself off from his wife and son out of fear for their safety.\n\nDr. Conners also unintentionally created the Ultimate version of Carnage using DNA from Spider-Man and based on an analysis of his old friend Richard Parker's work on the Venom suit. Due to the ensuing chaos, he was arrested and Stark Industries canceled their financial support of his experiments, but his assistant Ben Reilly still had one sample of Spider-Man's DNA, setting the stage for the Ultimate Clone Saga. He was last seen in \"Ultimate Spider-Man\" #127, where Dr. Conners was pardoned and recruited by S.H.I.E.L.D. where he and Tony Stark are at when the Triskellion was blown apart by Norman Osborn during an escape.\n\nEarly details of the character's history match his 616 counterpart, with him studying reptiles to fix his arm (the cause of this has yet to be revealed), and the condition of him leaving his wife and son (Doris and Timmy) out of fear, thereby turning to alcoholism.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, the Battleworld domain of New Quack City has a version of Curt Connors in it. This Curt Connors is a tough, anthropomorphic lizard who is a bartender at a place that Howard the Human frequently visits.\n\nThe reality-hopping heroic team, the Exiles, once found themselves on an alternate earth where Connors' experiment (in this world for a left arm rather than a right) had taken a different turn. Finding himself as the Lizard, Curt felt the need to \"reproduce\" by immediately injecting the Lizard formula into other people. He infected his family and they infected others, all feeling the urge to spread the transformation into lizard people. The forces of this particular world eventually managed to restrain the infected lizard people behind miles-long, man-made walls. When the Exiles visited this world, they discovered that Connors - having turned back into his human form a year ago - was intending to detonate a nuclear bomb in an abandoned submarine to wipe out the lizard people, but they were able to talk him down by arguing that the radioactive fallout would cause more damage, particularly since the lizard people were now mere herbivores (albeit partly because of the absence of other kinds of meat). Grief-stricken over what had become of his life, Connors subsequently killed himself.\n\nIn this reality, Curtis Connors is a philosopher who was infected with the bubonic plague. He created an elixir that transformed him into a reptilian creature that resembled a \"Velociraptor\", but retained his mind. He worked with Baron Victor Octavius to capture the Spider.\n\nIn the Marvel Noir reality, Curt Connors is an assistant to Dr. Otto Octavius. They operated in an abandoned hospital building on Ellis Island, where they secretly used kidnapped African Americans as specimens by turning them into mindless slaves. It is unknown what happened to Connors after federal authorities raided the hospital, though he was presumably arrested along with Octavius' associates.\n\nIn \"Marvel Zombies\", the Lizard, like almost every other hero and villain, has become a zombie. This particular incarnation of the Lizard is apparently destroyed when he is blasted apart by several cosmic-powered heroes while fighting (and eating) Galactus.\n\nThe Connors family appear in the first story of the \"Mr. and Mrs. Spider-Man\" series, set in the MC2 universe. Mary Jane comforts a distraught Martha when Curt goes missing again, whilst Peter, now a parent to his infant daughter May (\"Mayday\"), is more hesitant than before to become Spider-Man. He is eventually encouraged by his wife to track down and prevent the Lizard's latest rampage.\n\nOn Earth-65 where Gwen Stacy became Spider-Woman after being bitten by the spider, Peter Parker attempts to exact revenge on those who bullied him, becoming this universe's version of the Lizard. Gwen subdues him, but Peter ended up dying towards the end of the battle due to his use of the chemicals that transformed him. Spider-Woman is blamed for his death, causing an uproar for her arrest, led by J. Jonah Jameson, with Peter essentially becoming Gwen's Uncle Ben, serving as inspiration of the need to use her powers to help others.\n\nIt is later revealed that Curt Connors was a teacher at Gwen's high school and was studying Lizard genetics, possibly being involved in Peter's transformation into the Lizard and the recent sightings of multiple Lizard-people wreaking havoc on the city.\n\nLizard's history is the same in this reality. Spider-Man went to Florida to investigate the \"Lizard Man\" sightings. Spider-Man meets Martha Connors and learns that Lizard is her husband Dr. Curt Connors. After making an antidote, Spider-Man ensnares Lizard and uses the antidote to restore him to Curt Connors. Peter Parker later told J. Jonah Jameson that the \"Lizard Man\" was a hoax.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Lizard was ranked #9 on a listing of Marvel Comics' monster characters in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "24244076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24244076", "title": "Lulu Mae Johnson", "text": "Lulu Mae Johnson\n\nLulu Mae Johnson (c. 1877 – October 25, 1918), was a dance-hall performer and hotelier in Dawson City, Yukon, Canada.\n\nJohnson arrived in the Yukon in 1899 or 1900, probably from Alabama. She may have arrived with a dance troupe or with a trumpet player. Johnson married her employer, Murray S. Eads, in 1904 and went on to manage his dance-hall, the Flora Dora. Although she was once charged with \"allowing women of loose, idle or suspicious character on the premises for the purpose of keeping company with men\" she and her husband were well respected in Dawson City.\n\nIn 1918 the couple left Dawson City. They sold their business and traveled south. Both Lulu Mae and Murray Eads died on their journey when the \"SS Princess Sophia\" sank, killing all aboard.\n"}
{"id": "20347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20347", "title": "Meaning of life", "text": "Meaning of life\n\nThe meaning of life, or the answer to the question \"What is the meaning of life?\", pertains to the significance of living or existence in general. Many other related questions include: \"Why are we here?\", \"What is life all about?\", or \"What is the purpose of existence?\" There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological backgrounds. The search for life's meaning has produced much philosophical, scientific, theological, and metaphysical speculation throughout history. Different people and cultures believe different things for the answer to this question. \n\nThe meaning of life as we perceive it is derived from philosophical and religious contemplation of, and scientific inquiries about existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness. Many other issues are also involved, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife. Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the context and parameters concerning the \"how\" of life. Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality. An alternative, humanistic approach poses the question, \"What is the meaning of \"my\" life?\"\n\nQuestions about the meaning of life have been expressed in a broad variety of ways, including the following:\n\nThese questions have resulted in a wide range of competing answers and arguments, from scientific theories, to philosophical, theological, and spiritual explanations.\n\nMany members of the scientific community and philosophy of science communities think that science can provide the relevant context, and set of parameters necessary for dealing with topics related to the meaning of life. In their view, science can offer a wide range of insights on topics ranging from the science of happiness to death anxiety. Scientific inquiry facilitates this through nomological investigation into various aspects of life and reality, such as the Big Bang, the origin of life, and evolution, and by studying the objective factors which correlate with the subjective experience of meaning and happiness.\n\nResearchers in positive psychology study empirical factors that lead to life satisfaction, full engagement in activities, making a fuller contribution by utilizing one's personal strengths, and meaning based on investing in something larger than the self. Large-data studies of flow experiences have consistently suggested that humans experience meaning and fulfillment when mastering challenging tasks, and that the experience comes from the way tasks are approached and performed rather than the particular choice of task. For example, flow experiences can be obtained by prisoners in concentration camps with minimal facilities, and occur only slightly more often in billionaires. A classic example is of two workers on an apparently boring production line in a factory. One treats the work as a tedious chore while the other turns it into a game to see how fast she can make each unit, and achieves flow in the process.\n\nNeuroscience describes reward, pleasure, and motivation in terms of neurotransmitter activity, especially in the limbic system and the ventral tegmental area in particular. If one believes that the meaning of life is to maximize pleasure and to ease general life, then this allows normative predictions about how to act to achieve this. Likewise, some ethical naturalists advocate a science of morality—the empirical pursuit of flourishing for all conscious creatures.\n\nExperimental philosophy and neuroethics research collects data about human ethical decisions in controlled scenarios such as trolley problems. It has shown that many types of ethical judgment are universal across cultures, suggesting that they may be innate, whilst others are culture specific. The findings show actual human ethical reasoning to be at odds with most logical philosophical theories, for example consistently showing distinctions between action by cause and action by omission which would be absent from utility based theories. Cognitive science has theorized about differences between conservative and liberal ethics and how they may be based on different metaphors from family life such as strong fathers vs nurturing mother models.\n\nNeurotheology is a controversial field which tries to find neural correlates and mechanisms of religious experience. Some researchers have suggested that the human brain has innate mechanisms for such experiences and that living without using them for their evolved purposes may be a cause of imbalance. Studies have reported conflicted results on correlating happiness with religious belief and it is difficult to find unbiased meta-analyses.\n\nSociology examines value at a social level using theoretical constructs such as value theory, norms, anomie, etc. One value system suggested by social psychologists, broadly called Terror Management Theory, states that human meaning is derived from a fundamental fear of death, and values are selected when they allow us to escape the mental reminder of death.\n\nEmerging research shows that meaning in life predicts better physical health outcomes. Greater meaning has been associated with a reduced risk of Alzheimer's disease, reduced risk of heart attack among individuals with coronary heart disease, reduced risk of stroke, and increased longevity in both American and Japanese samples. In 2014, the British National Health Service began recommending a five step plan for mental well-being based on meaningful lives, whose steps are: (1) Connect with community and family; (2) Physical exercise; (3) Lifelong learning; (4) Giving to others; (5) Mindfulness of the world around you.\n\nThe exact mechanisms of abiogenesis are unknown: notable hypotheses include the RNA world hypothesis (RNA-based replicators) and the iron-sulfur world hypothesis (metabolism without genetics). The process by which different lifeforms have developed throughout history via genetic mutation and natural selection is explained by evolution. At the end of the 20th century, based upon insight gleaned from the gene-centered view of evolution, biologists George C. Williams, Richard Dawkins, and David Haig, among others, concluded that if there is a primary function to life, it is the replication of DNA and the survival of one's genes. This view has not achieved universal agreement; Jeremy Griffith is a notable exception, maintaining that the meaning of life is to be integrative. Responding to an interview question from Richard Dawkins about \"what it is all for\", James Watson stated \"I don't think we're \"for\" anything. We're just the products of evolution.\"\n\nThough scientists have intensively studied life on Earth, defining life in unequivocal terms is still a challenge. Physically, one may say that life \"feeds on negative entropy\" which refers to the process by which living entities decrease their internal entropy at the expense of some form of energy taken in from the environment. Biologists generally agree that lifeforms are self-organizing systems which regulate their internal environments as to maintain this organized state, metabolism serves to provide energy, and reproduction causes life to continue over a span of multiple generations. Typically, organisms are responsive to stimuli and genetic information changes from generation to generation, resulting in adaptation through evolution; this optimizes the chances of survival for the individual organism and its descendants respectively.\n\nNon-cellular replicating agents, notably viruses, are generally not considered to be organisms because they are incapable of independent reproduction or metabolism. This classification is problematic, though, since some parasites and endosymbionts are also incapable of independent life. Astrobiology studies the possibility of different forms of life on other worlds, including replicating structures made from materials other than DNA.\n\nThough the Big Bang theory was met with much skepticism when first introduced, it has become well-supported by several independent observations. However, current physics can only describe the early universe from 10 seconds after the Big Bang (where zero time corresponds to infinite temperature); a theory of quantum gravity would be required to understand events before that time. Nevertheless, many physicists have speculated about what would have preceded this limit, and how the universe came into being. For example, one interpretation is that the Big Bang occurred coincidentally, and when considering the anthropic principle, it is sometimes interpreted as implying the existence of a multiverse.\n\nThe ultimate fate of the universe, and implicitly humanity, is hypothesized as one in which biological life will eventually become unsustainable, such as through a Big Freeze, Big Rip, or Big Crunch.\n\nTheoretical cosmology studies many alternative speculative models for the origin and fate of the universe beyond the big bang theory. A recent trend has been models of the creation of 'baby universes' inside black holes, with our own big bang being a white hole on the inside of a black hole in another parent universe. Multiverse theories claim that every possibility of quantum mechanics is played out in parallel universes.\n\nThe nature and origin of consciousness and the mind itself are also widely debated in science. The explanatory gap is generally equated with the hard problem of consciousness, and the question of free will is also considered to be of fundamental importance. These subjects are mostly addressed in the fields of cognitive science, neuroscience (e.g. the neuroscience of free will) and philosophy of mind, though some evolutionary biologists and theoretical physicists have also made several allusions to the subject.\nReductionistic and eliminative materialistic approaches, for example the Multiple Drafts Model, hold that consciousness can be wholly explained by neuroscience through the workings of the brain and its neurons, thus adhering to biological naturalism.\n\nOn the other hand, some scientists, like Andrei Linde, have considered that consciousness, like spacetime, might have its own intrinsic degrees of freedom, and that one's perceptions may be as real as (or even more real than) material objects. Hypotheses of consciousness and spacetime explain consciousness in describing a \"space of conscious elements\", often encompassing a number of extra dimensions. Electromagnetic theories of consciousness solve the binding problem of consciousness in saying that the electromagnetic field generated by the brain is the actual carrier of conscious experience, there is however disagreement about the implementations of such a theory relating to other workings of the mind. Quantum mind theories use quantum theory in explaining certain properties of the mind. Explaining the process of free will through quantum phenomena is a popular alternative to determinism.\n\nBased on the premises of non-materialistic explanations of the mind, some have suggested the existence of a cosmic consciousness, asserting that consciousness is actually the \"ground of all being\". Proponents of this view cite accounts of paranormal phenomena, primarily extrasensory perceptions and psychic powers, as evidence for an incorporeal higher consciousness. In hopes of proving the existence of these phenomena, parapsychologists have orchestrated various experiments, but successful results might be due to poor experimental controls and might have alternative explanations.\n\nThe most common definitions of meaning in life involve three components. First, Reker and Wong define personal meaning as the \"cognizance of order, coherence and purpose in one's existence, the pursuit and attainment of worthwhile goals, and an accompanying sense of fulfillment\" (p. 221). In 2016 Martela and Steger defined meaning as coherence, purpose, and significance. In contrast, Wong has proposed a four-component solution to the question of meaning in life, with the four components purpose, understanding, responsibility, and enjoyment (PURE):\n\nThus, a sense of significance permeates every dimension of meaning, rather than stands as a separate factor.\n\nAlthough most psychology researchers consider meaning in life as a subjective feeling or judgment, most philosophers (e.g., Thaddeus Metz, Daniel Haybron) propose that there are also objective, concrete criteria for what constitutes meaning in life.\nWong has proposed that whether life is meaningful depends not only on subjective feelings but, more importantly, on whether a person's goal-striving and life as a whole is meaningful according to some objective normative standard.\n\nThe philosophical perspectives on the meaning of life are those ideologies which explain life in terms of ideals or abstractions defined by humans.\n\nPlato, a pupil of Socrates, was one of the earliest, most influential philosophers. His reputation comes from his idealism of believing in the existence of universals. His Theory of Forms proposes that universals do not physically exist, like objects, but as heavenly forms. In the dialogue of \"The Republic\", the character of Socrates describes the Form of the Good. His theory on justice in the soul relates to the idea of happiness relevant to the question of the meaning of life.\n\nIn Platonism, the meaning of life is in attaining the highest form of knowledge, which is the Idea (Form) of the Good, from which all good and just things derive utility and value.\n\nAristotle, an apprentice of Plato, was another early and influential philosopher, who argued that ethical knowledge is not \"certain\" knowledge (such as metaphysics and epistemology), but is \"general\" knowledge. Because it is not a theoretical discipline, a person had to study and practice in order to become \"good\"; thus if the person were to become virtuous, he could not simply study what virtue \"is\", he had to \"be\" virtuous, via virtuous activities. To do this, Aristotle established what is virtuous:\nYet, if action A is done towards achieving goal B, then goal B also would have a goal, goal C, and goal C also would have a goal, and so would continue this pattern, until something stopped its infinite regression. Aristotle's solution is the \"Highest Good\", which is desirable for its own sake. It is its own goal. The Highest Good is not desirable for the sake of achieving some other good, and all other \"goods\" desirable for its sake. This involves achieving \"eudaemonia\", usually translated as \"happiness\", \"well-being\", \"flourishing\", and \"excellence\".\n\nAntisthenes, a pupil of Socrates, first outlined the themes of Cynicism, stating that the purpose of life is living a life of Virtue which agrees with Nature. Happiness depends upon being self-sufficient and master of one's mental attitude; suffering is the consequence of false judgments of value, which cause negative emotions and a concomitant vicious character.\n\nThe Cynical life rejects conventional desires for wealth, power, health, and fame, by being free of the possessions acquired in pursuing the conventional. As reasoning creatures, people could achieve happiness via rigorous training, by living in a way natural to human beings. The world equally belongs to everyone, so suffering is caused by false judgments of what is valuable and what is worthless per the customs and conventions of society.\n\nAristippus of Cyrene, a pupil of Socrates, founded an early Socratic school that emphasized only one side of Socrates's teachings—that happiness is one of the ends of moral action and that pleasure is the supreme good; thus a hedonistic world view, wherein bodily gratification is more intense than mental pleasure. Cyrenaics prefer immediate gratification to the long-term gain of delayed gratification; denial is unpleasant unhappiness.\n\nEpicurus, a pupil of the Platonist Pamphilus of Samos, taught that the greatest good is in seeking modest pleasures, to attain tranquility and freedom from fear (ataraxia) via knowledge, friendship, and virtuous, temperate living; bodily pain (aponia) is absent through one's knowledge of the workings of the world and of the limits of one's desires. Combined, freedom from pain and freedom from fear are happiness in its highest form. Epicurus' lauded enjoyment of simple pleasures is quasi-ascetic \"abstention\" from sex and the appetites:\n\"When we say ... that pleasure is the end and aim, we do not mean the pleasures of the prodigal or the pleasures of sensuality, as we are understood to do, by some, through ignorance, prejudice or wilful misrepresentation. By pleasure we mean the absence of pain in the body and of trouble in the soul. It is not by an unbroken succession of drinking bouts and of revelry, not by sexual lust, nor the enjoyment of fish, and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; it is sober reasoning, searching out the grounds of every choice and avoidance, and banishing those beliefs through which the greatest tumults take possession of the soul.\"\n\nThe Epicurean meaning of life rejects immortality and mysticism; there is a soul, but it is as mortal as the body. There is no afterlife, yet, one need not fear death, because \"Death is nothing to us; for that which is dissolved, is without sensation, and that which lacks sensation is nothing to us.\"\n\nZeno of Citium, a pupil of Crates of Thebes, established the school which teaches that living according to reason and virtue is to be in harmony with the universe's divine order, entailed by one's recognition of the universal \"logos\", or reason, an essential value of all people. The meaning of life is \"freedom from suffering\" through \"apatheia\" (Gr: απαθεια), that is, being objective and having \"clear judgement\", \"not\" indifference.\n\nStoicism's prime directives are virtue, reason, and natural law, abided to develop personal self-control and mental fortitude as means of overcoming destructive emotions. The Stoic does not seek to extinguish emotions, only to avoid emotional troubles, by developing clear judgement and inner calm through diligently practiced logic, reflection, and concentration.\n\nThe Stoic ethical foundation is that \"good lies in the state of the soul\", itself, exemplified in wisdom and self-control, thus improving one's spiritual well-being: \"\"Virtue\" consists in a \"will\" which is in agreement with Nature.\" The principle applies to one's personal relations thus: \"to be free from anger, envy, and jealousy\".\n\nThe Enlightenment and the colonial era both changed the nature of European philosophy and exported it worldwide. Devotion and subservience to God were largely replaced by notions of inalienable natural rights and the potentialities of reason, and universal ideals of love and compassion gave way to civic notions of freedom, equality, and citizenship. The meaning of life changed as well, focusing less on humankind's relationship to God and more on the relationship between individuals and their society. This era is filled with theories that equate meaningful existence with the social order.\n\nClassical liberalism is a set of ideas that arose in the 17th and 18th centuries, out of conflicts between a growing, wealthy, propertied class and the established aristocratic and religious orders that dominated Europe. Liberalism cast humans as beings with inalienable natural rights (including the right to retain the wealth generated by one's own work), and sought out means to balance rights across society. Broadly speaking, it considers individual liberty to be the most important goal, because only through ensured liberty are the other inherent rights protected.\n\nThere are many forms and derivations of liberalism, but their central conceptions of the meaning of life trace back to three main ideas. Early thinkers such as John Locke, Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Adam Smith saw humankind beginning in the state of nature, then finding meaning for existence through labor and property, and using social contracts to create an environment that supports those efforts.\n\nKantianism is a philosophy based on the ethical, epistemological, and metaphysical works of Immanuel Kant. Kant is known for his deontological theory where there is a single moral obligation, the \"Categorical Imperative\", derived from the concept of duty. Kantians believe all actions are performed in accordance with some underlying maxim or principle, and for actions to be ethical, they must adhere to the categorical imperative.\n\nSimply put, the test is that one must universalize the maxim (imagine that all people acted in this way) and then see if it would still be possible to perform the maxim in the world without contradiction. In \"Groundwork\", Kant gives the example of a person who seeks to borrow money without intending to pay it back. This is a contradiction because if it were a universal action, no person would lend money anymore as he knows that he will never be paid back. The maxim of this action, says Kant, results in a contradiction in conceivability (and thus contradicts perfect duty).\n\nKant also denied that the consequences of an act in any way contribute to the moral worth of that act, his reasoning being that the physical world is outside one's full control and thus one cannot be held accountable for the events that occur in it.\n\nThe origins of utilitarianism can be traced back as far as Epicurus, but, as a school of thought, it is credited to Jeremy Bentham, who found that \"nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters, pain and pleasure\", then, from that moral insight, deriving the \"Rule of Utility\": \"that the good is whatever brings the greatest happiness to the greatest number of people\". He defined the meaning of life as the \"greatest happiness principle\".\n\nJeremy Bentham's foremost proponent was James Mill, a significant philosopher in his day, and father of John Stuart Mill. The younger Mill was educated per Bentham's principles, including transcribing and summarizing much of his father's work.\n\nNihilism suggests that life is without objective meaning.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche characterized nihilism as emptying the world, and especially human existence, of meaning, purpose, comprehensible truth, and essential value; succinctly, nihilism is the process of \"the devaluing of the highest values\". Seeing the nihilist as a natural result of the idea that God is dead, and insisting it was something to overcome, his questioning of the nihilist's life-negating values returned meaning to the Earth.\nTo Martin Heidegger, nihilism is the movement whereby \"being\" is forgotten, and is transformed into value, in other words, the reduction of being to exchange value. Heidegger, in accordance with Nietzsche, saw in the so-called \"death of God\" a potential source for nihilism:\n\"If God, as the supra-sensory ground and goal, of all reality, is dead; if the supra-sensory world of the Ideas has suffered the loss of its obligatory, and above it, its vitalizing and up-building power, then nothing more remains to which Man can cling, and by which he can orient himself.\"\n\nThe French philosopher Albert Camus asserts that the absurdity of the human condition is that people search for external values and meaning in a world which has none, and is indifferent to them. Camus writes of value-nihilists such as Meursault, but also of values in a nihilistic world, that people can instead strive to be \"heroic nihilists\", living with dignity in the face of absurdity, living with \"secular saintliness\", fraternal solidarity, and rebelling against and transcending the world's indifference.\n\nThe current era has seen radical changes in both formal and popular conceptions of human nature. The knowledge disclosed by modern science has effectively rewritten the relationship of humankind to the natural world. Advances in medicine and technology have freed humans from significant limitations and ailments of previous eras; and philosophy—particularly following the linguistic turn—has altered how the relationships people have with themselves and each other are conceived. Questions about the meaning of life have also seen radical changes, from attempts to reevaluate human existence in biological and scientific terms (as in pragmatism and logical positivism) to efforts to meta-theorize about meaning-making as a personal, individual-driven activity (existentialism, secular humanism).\n\nPragmatism originated in the late-19th-century US, concerning itself (mostly) with truth, and positing that \"only in struggling with the environment\" do data, and derived theories, have meaning, and that \"consequences\", like utility and practicality, are also components of truth. Moreover, pragmatism posits that \"anything\" useful and practical is not always true, arguing that what most contributes to the most human good in the long course is true. In practice, theoretical claims must be \"practically verifiable\", i.e. one should be able to predict and test claims, and, that, ultimately, the needs of humankind should guide human intellectual inquiry.\n\nPragmatic philosophers suggest that the practical, useful understanding of life is more important than searching for an impractical abstract truth about life. William James argued that truth could be made, but not sought. To a pragmatist, the meaning of life is discoverable only via experience.\n\nTheists believe God created the universe and that God had a purpose in doing so. Theists also hold the view that humans find their meaning and purpose for life in God's purpose in creating. Theists further hold that if there were no God to give life ultimate meaning, value and purpose, then life would be absurd.\n\nAccording to existentialism, each man and each woman creates the essence (meaning) of their life; life is not determined by a supernatural god or an earthly authority, one is free. As such, one's ethical prime directives are \"action\", \"freedom\", and \"decision\", thus, existentialism opposes rationalism and positivism. In seeking meaning to life, the existentialist looks to where people find meaning in life, in course of which using only reason as a source of meaning is insufficient; this gives rise to the emotions of anxiety and dread, felt in considering one's free will, and the concomitant awareness of death. According to Jean-Paul Sartre, existence precedes essence; the (essence) of one's life arises \"only\" after one comes to existence.\n\nSøren Kierkegaard spoke about a \"\", arguing that life is full of absurdity, and one must make his and her own values in an indifferent world. One can live meaningfully (free of despair and anxiety) in an unconditional commitment to something finite, and devotes that meaningful life to the commitment, despite the vulnerability inherent to doing so.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer answered: \"What is the meaning of life?\" by stating that one's life reflects one's will, and that the will (life) is an aimless, irrational, and painful drive. Salvation, deliverance, and escape from suffering are in aesthetic contemplation, sympathy for others, and asceticism.\n\nFor Friedrich Nietzsche, life is worth living only if there are goals inspiring one to live. Accordingly, he saw nihilism (\"all that happens is meaningless\") as without goals. He stated that asceticism denies one's living in the world; stated that values are not objective facts, that are rationally necessary, universally binding commitments: our evaluations are interpretations, and not reflections of the world, as it is, in itself, and, therefore, all ideations take place from a particular perspective.\n\nIn absurdist philosophy, the Absurd arises out of the fundamental disharmony between the individual's search for meaning and the apparent meaninglessness of the universe. As beings looking for meaning in a meaningless world, humans have three ways of resolving the dilemma. Kierkegaard and Camus describe the solutions in their works, \"The Sickness Unto Death\" (1849) and \"The Myth of Sisyphus\" (1942):\n\nPer secular humanism, the human species came to be by reproducing successive generations in a progression of unguided evolution as an integral expression of nature, which is self-existing. Human knowledge comes from human observation, experimentation, and rational analysis (the scientific method), and not from supernatural sources; the nature of the universe is what people discern it to be. Likewise, \"values and realities\" are determined \"by means of intelligent inquiry\" and \"are derived from human need and interest as tested by experience\", that is, by critical intelligence. \"As far as we know, the total personality is [a function] of the biological organism transacting in a social and cultural context.\"\n\nPeople determine human purpose without supernatural influence; it is the human personality (general sense) that is the purpose of a human being's life. Humanism seeks to develop and fulfill: \"Humanism affirms our ability and responsibility to lead ethical lives of personal fulfillment that aspire to the greater good of humanity\". Humanism aims to promote enlightened self-interest and the common good for all people. It is based on the premises that the happiness of the individual person is inextricably linked to the well-being of all humanity, in part because humans are social animals who find meaning in personal relations and because cultural progress benefits everybody living in the culture.\n\nThe philosophical subgenres posthumanism and transhumanism (sometimes used synonymously) are extensions of humanistic values. One should seek the advancement of humanity and of all life to the greatest degree feasible and seek to reconcile Renaissance humanism with the 21st century's technoscientific culture. In this light, every living creature has the right to determine its personal and social \"meaning of life\".\n\nFrom a humanism-psychotherapeutic point of view, the question of the meaning of life could be reinterpreted as \"What is the meaning of \"my\" life?\" This approach emphasizes that the question is personal—and avoids focusing on cosmic or religious questions about overarching purpose. There are many therapeutic responses to this question. For example, Viktor Frankl argues for \"Dereflection\", which translates largely as: cease endlessly reflecting on the self; instead, engage in life. On the whole, the therapeutic response is that the question itself—what is the meaning of life?—evaporates when one is fully engaged in life. (The question then morphs into more specific worries such as \"What delusions am I under?\"; \"What is blocking my ability to enjoy things?\"; \"Why do I neglect loved-ones?\".) \"See also: Existential Therapy and Irvin Yalom\"\n\nLogical positivists ask: \"What is the meaning of life?\", \"What is the meaning in asking?\" and \"If there are no objective values, then, is life meaningless?\" Ludwig Wittgenstein and the logical positivists said: \"Expressed in language, the question is meaningless\"; because, \"in\" life the statement the \"meaning of x\", usually denotes the \"consequences\" of x, or the \"significance\" of x, or \"what is notable\" about x, etc., thus, when the meaning of life concept equals \"x\", in the statement the \"meaning of x\", the statement becomes recursive, and, therefore, nonsensical, or it might refer to the fact that biological life is essential to having a meaning in life.\n\nThe things (people, events) in the life of a person can have meaning (importance) as parts of a whole, but a discrete meaning of (the) life, itself, aside from those things, cannot be discerned. A person's life has meaning (for themselves, others) as the life events resulting from their achievements, legacy, family, etc., but, to say that life, itself, has meaning, is a misuse of language, since any note of significance, or of consequence, is relevant only \"in\" life (to the living), so rendering the statement erroneous. Bertrand Russell wrote that although he found that his distaste for torture was not like his distaste for broccoli, he found no satisfactory, empirical method of proving this:\nWhen we try to be definite, as to what we mean when we say that this or that is \"the Good,\" we find ourselves involved in very great difficulties. Bentham's creed, that pleasure is the Good, roused furious opposition, and was said to be a pig's philosophy. Neither he nor his opponents could advance any argument. In a scientific question, evidence can be adduced on both sides, and, in the end, one side is seen to have the better case—or, if this does not happen, the question is left undecided. But in a question, as to whether this, or that, is the ultimate Good, there is no evidence, either way; each disputant can only appeal to his own emotions, and employ such rhetorical devices as shall rouse similar emotions in others ... Questions as to \"values\"—that is to say, as to what is good or bad on its own account, independently of its effects—lie outside the domain of science, as the defenders of religion emphatically assert. I think that, in this, they are right, but, I draw the further conclusion, which they do not draw, that questions as to \"values\" lie wholly outside the domain of knowledge. That is to say, when we assert that this, or that, has \"value\", we are giving expression to our own emotions, not to a fact, which would still be true if our personal feelings were different.\n\nPostmodernist thought—broadly speaking—sees human nature as constructed by language, or by structures and institutions of human society. Unlike other forms of philosophy, postmodernism rarely seeks out \"a priori\" or innate meanings in human existence, but instead focuses on analyzing or critiquing \"given\" meanings in order to rationalize or reconstruct them. Anything resembling a \"meaning of life\", in postmodernist terms, can only be understood within a social and linguistic framework, and must be pursued as an escape from the power structures that are already embedded in all forms of speech and interaction. As a rule, postmodernists see awareness of the constraints of language as necessary to escaping those constraints, but different theorists take different views on the nature of this process: from radical reconstruction of meaning by individuals (as in deconstructionism) to theories in which individuals are primarily extensions of language and society, without real autonomy (as in poststructuralism).\n\nAccording to naturalistic pantheism, the meaning of life is to care for and look after nature and the environment.\n\nEmbodied cognition uses the neurological basis of emotion, speech, and cognition to understand the nature of thought. Cognitive neuropsychology has identified brain areas necessary for these abilities, and genetic studies show that the gene FOXP2 affects neuroplasticity which underlies language fluency. \nGeorge Lakoff, a professor of cognitive linguistics and philosophy, advances the view that metaphors are the usual basis of meaning, not the logic of verbal symbol manipulation. Computers use logic programming to effectively query databases but humans rely on a trained biological neural network. Post modern philosophies that use the indeterminacy of symbolic language to deny definite meaning ignore those who feel they know what they mean and feel that their interlocutors know what they mean. Choosing the correct metaphor results in enough common understanding to pursue questions such as the meaning of life. Improved knowledge of brain function should result in better treatments producing healthier brains. When combined with more effective training, a sound personal assessment as to the meaning of one’s life should be straightforward.\n\nThe Mohist philosophers believed that the purpose of life was universal, impartial love. Mohism promoted a philosophy of impartial caring—a person should care equally for all other individuals, regardless of their actual relationship to him or her. The expression of this indiscriminate caring is what makes man a righteous being in Mohist thought. This advocacy of impartiality was a target of attack by the other Chinese philosophical schools, most notably the Confucians who believed that while love should be unconditional, it should not be indiscriminate. For example, children should hold a greater love for their parents than for random strangers.\n\nConfucianism recognizes human nature in accordance with the need for discipline and education. Because humankind is driven by both positive and negative influences, Confucianists see a goal in achieving virtue through strong relationships and reasoning as well as minimizing the negative. This emphasis on normal living is seen in the Confucianist scholar Tu Wei-Ming's quote, \"we can realize the ultimate meaning of life in ordinary human existence.\"\n\nThe Legalists believed that finding the purpose of life was a meaningless effort. To the Legalists, only practical knowledge was valuable, especially as it related to the function and performance of the state.\n\nThe religious perspectives on the meaning of life are those ideologies which explain life in terms of an implicit purpose not defined by humans. According to the Charter for Compassion signed by many of the world's leading religious and secular organizations, the core of religion is the golden rule of `treat others as you would have them treat you'. The Charter's founder, Karen Armstrong, quotes the ancient Rabbi Hillel who suggested that `the rest is commentary'. This is not to reduce the commentary's importance, and Armstrong considers that its study, interpretation and ritual are the means by which religious people internalize and live the golden rule.\n\nZoroastrianism is the religion and philosophy named after its prophet Zoroaster, which is believed to have influenced the beliefs of Judaism and its descendant religions. Zoroastrians believe in a universe created by a transcendental God, Ahura Mazda, to whom all worship is ultimately directed. Ahura Mazda's creation is \"asha\", truth and order, and it is in conflict with its antithesis, \"druj\", falsehood and disorder. (See also Zoroastrian eschatology).\n\nSince humanity possesses free will, people must be responsible for their moral choices. By using free will, people must take an active role in the universal conflict, with good thoughts, good words and good deeds to ensure happiness and to keep chaos at bay.\n\nIn Islam, humanity's ultimate purpose is to discover their creator Allah () through His signs, and be grateful to Him through sincere love and devotion. This is practically shown by following the Divine guidelines revealed in the Qur'an and the Tradition of the Prophet. Earthly life is a test, determining one's position of closeness to Allah in the hereafter. A person will either be close to Him and His Love in \"Jannah\" (Paradise) or far away in \"Jahannam\" (Hell).\n\nFor Allah's satisfaction, via the Qur'an, all Muslims must believe in God, his revelations, his angels, his messengers, and in the \"Day of Judgment\". The Qur'an describes the purpose of creation as follows: \"Blessed be he in whose hand is the kingdom, he is powerful over all things, who created death and life that he might examine which of you is best in deeds, and he is the almighty, the forgiving\" (Qur'an 67:1–2) and \"And I (Allâh) created not the jinn and mankind except that they should be obedient (to Allah).\" (Qur'an 51:56). Obedience testifies to the oneness of God in his lordship, his names, and his attributes. Terrenal life is a test; how one \"acts\" (behaves) determines whether one's soul goes to Jannat (Heaven) or to Jahannam (Hell). However, on the day of Judgement the final decision is of Allah alone.\n\nThe Five Pillars of Islam are duties incumbent to every Muslim; they are: Shahadah (profession of faith); salat (ritual prayer); Zakah (charity); Sawm (fasting during Ramadan), and Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca). They derive from the Hadith works, notably of Sahih Al-Bukhari and Sahih Muslim. The five pillars are not mentioned directly in the Quran.\n\nBeliefs differ among the Kalam. The Sunni and the Ahmadiyya concept of pre-destination is divine decree; likewise, the Shi'a concept of pre-destination is divine justice; in the esoteric view of the Sufis, the universe exists only for God's pleasure; Creation is a grand game, wherein Allah is the greatest prize.\n\nThe Sufi view of the meaning of life stems from the hadith qudsi that states \"I (God) was a Hidden Treasure and loved to be known. Therefore I created the Creation that I might be known.\" One possible interpretation of this view is that the meaning of life for an individual is to know the nature of God, and the purpose of all of creation is to reveal that nature, and to prove its value as the ultimate treasure, that is God. However, this hadith is stated in various forms and interpreted in various ways by people, such, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá of the Bahá'í Faith, and in Ibn'Arabī's Fuṣūṣ al-Ḥikam.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith emphasizes the unity of humanity. To Bahá'ís, the purpose of life is focused on spiritual growth and service to humanity. Human beings are viewed as intrinsically spiritual beings. People's lives in this material world provide extended opportunities to grow, to develop divine qualities and virtues, and the prophets were sent by God to facilitate this.\n\nIn the Judaic world view, the meaning of life is to elevate the physical world ('Olam HaZeh') and prepare it for the world to come ('Olam HaBa'), the messianic era. This is called Tikkun Olam (\"Fixing the World\"). Olam HaBa can also mean the spiritual afterlife, and there is debate concerning the eschatological order. However, Judaism is not focused on personal salvation, but on communal (between man and man) and individual (between man and God) spiritualised actions in this world.\n\nJudaism's most important feature is the worship of a single, incomprehensible, transcendent, one, indivisible, absolute Being, who created and governs the universe. Closeness with the God of Israel is through study of His Torah, and adherence to its mitzvot (divine laws). In traditional Judaism, God established a special covenant with a people, the people of Israel, at Mount Sinai, giving the Jewish commandments. Torah comprises the written Pentateuch and the transcribed oral tradition, further developed through the generations. The Jewish people are intended as \"a kingdom of priests and a holy nation\" and a \"light to the Nations\", influencing the other peoples to keep their own religio-ethical Seven Laws of Noah. The messianic era is seen as the perfection of this dual path to God.\n\nJewish observances involve ethical and ritual, affirmative and prohibitive injunctions. Modern Jewish denominations differ over the nature, relevance and emphases of mitzvot. Jewish philosophy emphasises that God is not affected or benefited, but the individual and society benefit by drawing close to God. The rationalist Maimonides sees the ethical and ritual divine commandments as a necessary, but insufficient preparation for philosophical understanding of God, with its love and awe. Among fundamental values in the Torah are pursuit of justice, compassion, peace, kindness, hard work, prosperity, humility, and education. The world to come, prepared in the present, elevates man to an everlasting connection with God. Simeon the Righteous says, \"the world stands on three things: on Torah, on worship, and on acts of loving kindness.\" The prayer book relates, \"blessed is our God who created us for his honor...and planted within us everlasting life.\" Of this context, the Talmud states, \"everything that God does is for the good,\" including suffering.\n\nThe Jewish mystical Kabbalah gives complimentary esoteric meanings of life. As well as Judaism providing an immanent relationship with God (personal theism), in Kabbalah the spiritual and physical creation is a paradoxical manifestation of the immanent aspects of God's Being (panentheism), related to the Shekhinah (Divine feminine). Jewish observance unites the sephirot (Divine attributes) on high, restoring harmony to creation. In Lurianic Kabbalah, the meaning of life is the messianic rectification of the shattered sparks of God's persona, exiled in physical existence (the Kelipot shells), through the actions of Jewish observance. Through this, in Hasidic Judaism the ultimate essential \"desire\" of God is the revelation of the Omnipresent Divine essence through materiality, achieved by man from within his limited physical realm, when the body will give life to the soul.\n\nChristianity has its roots in Judaism, and shares much of the latter faith's ontology. Its central beliefs derive from the teachings of Jesus Christ as presented in the New Testament. Life's purpose in Christianity is to seek divine salvation through the grace of God and intercession of Christ (John 11:26). The New Testament speaks of God wanting to have a relationship with humans both in this life and the life to come, which can happen only if one's sins are forgiven (John 3:16–21; 2 Peter 3:9).\n\nIn the Christian view, humankind was made in the Image of God and perfect, but the Fall of Man caused the progeny of the first Parents to inherit Original Sin and its consequences. Christ's passion, death and resurrection provide the means for transcending that impure state (Romans 6:23). The good news that this restoration from sin is now possible is called the gospel. The specific process of appropriating salvation through Christ and maintaining a relationship with God varies between different denominations of Christians, but all rely on faith in Christ and the gospel as the fundamental starting point. Salvation through faith in God is found in Ephesians 2:8–9 – \"For by grace you have been saved through faith; and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God; not as a result of works, that no one should boast\" (NASB; 1973). The gospel maintains that through this belief, the barrier that sin has created between man and God is destroyed, thereby allowing God to regenerate (change) the believer and instill in them a new heart after God's own will with the ability to live righteously before him. This is what the terms \"Born again\" or \"saved\" almost always refer to.\n\nIn the \"Westminster Shorter Catechism\", the first question is: \"What is the chief end of Man?\" (that is, \"What is Man's main purpose?\"). The answer is: \"Man's chief end is to glorify God, and enjoy him forever\". God requires one to obey the revealed moral law, saying: \"love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbour as yourself\". The \"Baltimore Catechism\" answers the question \"Why did God make you?\" by saying \"God made me to know Him, to love Him, and to serve Him in this world, and to be happy with Him forever in heaven.\"\n\nThe Apostle Paul also answers this question in his speech on the Areopagus in Athens: \"And He has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and has determined their preappointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings, so that they should seek the Lord, in the hope that they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us.\"\n\nCatholicism's way of thinking is better expressed through the Principle and Foundation of St. Ignatius of Loyola: \"The human person is created to praise, reverence, and serve God Our Lord, and by doing so, to save his or her soul. All other things on the face of the earth are created for human beings in order to help them pursue the end for which they are created. It follows from this that one must use other created things, in so far as they help towards one's end, and free oneself from them, in so far as they are obstacles to one's end. To do this, we need to make ourselves indifferent to all created things, provided the matter is subject to our free choice and there is no other prohibition. Thus, as far as we are concerned, we should not want health more than illness, wealth more than poverty, fame more than disgrace, a long life more than a short one, and similarly for all the rest, but we should desire and choose only what helps us more towards the end for which we are created.\"\n\nMormonism teaches that the purpose of life on Earth is to gain knowledge and experience and to have joy. Mormons believe that humans are literally the spirit children of God the Father, and thus have the potential to progress to become like Him. Mormons teach that God provided his children the choice to come to Earth, which is considered a crucial stage in their development—wherein a mortal body, coupled with the freedom to choose, makes for an environment to learn and grow. The Fall of Adam is not viewed as an unfortunate or unplanned cancellation of God's original plan for a paradise; rather, the opposition found in mortality is an essential element of God's plan because the process of enduring and overcoming challenges, difficulties, and temptations provides opportunities to gain wisdom and strength, thereby learning to appreciate and choose good and reject evil. Because God is just, he allows those who were not taught the gospel during mortality to receive it after death in the spirit world, so that all of his children have the opportunity to return to live with God, and reach their full potential.\n\nA recent alternative Christian theological discourse interprets Jesus as revealing that the purpose of life is to elevate our compassionate response to human suffering; nonetheless, the conventional Christian position is that people are justified by belief in the propitiatory sacrifice of Jesus' death on the cross.\n\nHinduism is a religious category including many beliefs and traditions. Since Hinduism was the way of expressing meaningful living for a long time, before there was a need for naming it as a separate religion, Hindu doctrines are supplementary and complementary in nature, generally non-exclusive, suggestive and tolerant in content. Most believe that the ātman (spirit, soul)—the person's true \"self\"—is eternal. In part, this stems from Hindu beliefs that spiritual development occurs across many lifetimes, and goals should match the state of development of the individual. There are four possible aims to human life, known as the \"purusharthas\" (ordered from least to greatest): (i)\"Kāma\" (wish, desire, love and sensual pleasure), (ii)\"Artha\" (wealth, prosperity, glory), (iii)\"Dharma\" (righteousness, duty, morality, virtue, ethics), encompassing notions such as \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) and satya (truth) and (iv)\"Moksha\" (liberation, i.e. liberation from Saṃsāra, the cycle of reincarnation).\n\nIn all schools of Hinduism, the meaning of life is tied up in the concepts of karma (causal action), sansara (the cycle of birth and rebirth), and moksha (liberation). Existence is conceived as the progression of the ātman (similar to the western concept of a soul) across numerous lifetimes, and its ultimate progression towards liberation from karma. Particular goals for life are generally subsumed under broader yogas (practices) or dharma (correct living) which are intended to create more favorable reincarnations, though they are generally positive acts in this life as well. Traditional schools of Hinduism often worship Devas which are manifestations of Ishvara (a personal or chosen God); these Devas are taken as ideal forms to be identified with, as a form of spiritual improvement.\n\nIn short, the goal is to realize the fundamental truth about oneself. This thought is conveyed in the Mahāvākyas (\"Tat Tvam Asi\" (thou art that), \"Aham Brahmāsmi\", \"Prajñānam Brahma\" and \"Ayam Ātmā Brahma\" (the soul and the world are one)).\n\nLater schools reinterpreted the vedas to focus on Brahman, \"The One Without a Second\", as a central God-like figure.\n\nIn monist Advaita Vedanta, ātman is ultimately indistinguishable from Brahman, and the goal of life is to know or realize that one's ātman (soul) is identical to Brahman. To the Upanishads, whoever becomes fully aware of the ātman, as one's core of self, realizes identity with Brahman, and, thereby, achieves Moksha (liberation, freedom).\n\nDvaita Vedanta and other bhakti schools have a dualist interpretation. Brahman is seen as a supreme being with a personality and manifest qualities. The ātman depends upon Brahman for its existence; the meaning of life is achieving Moksha through love of God and upon His grace.\n\nVaishnavism is a branch of Hinduism in which the principal belief is the identification of Vishnu or Narayana as the one supreme God. This belief contrasts with the Krishna-centered traditions, such as Vallabha, Nimbaraka and Gaudiya, in which Krishna is considered to be the One and only Supreme God and the source of all avataras.\n\nVaishnava theology includes the central beliefs of Hinduism such as monotheism, reincarnation, samsara, karma, and the various Yoga systems, but with a particular emphasis on devotion (bhakti) to Vishnu through the process of Bhakti yoga, often including singing Vishnu's name's (bhajan), meditating upon his form (dharana) and performing deity worship (puja). The practices of deity worship are primarily based on texts such as Pañcaratra and various Samhitas.\n\nOne popular school of thought, Gaudiya Vaishnavism, teaches the concept of Achintya Bheda Abheda. In this, Krishna is worshipped as the single true God, and all living entities are eternal parts and the Supreme Personality of the Godhead Krishna. Thus the constitutional position of a living entity is to serve the Lord with love and devotion. The purpose of human life especially is to think beyond the animalistic way of eating, sleeping, mating and defending and engage the higher intelligence to revive the lost relationship with Krishna.\n\nJainism is a religion originating in ancient India, its ethical system promotes self-discipline above all else. Through following the ascetic teachings of Jina, a human achieves enlightenment (perfect knowledge). Jainism divides the universe into living and non-living beings. Only when the living become attached to the non-living does suffering result. Therefore, happiness is the result of self-conquest and freedom from external objects. The meaning of life may then be said to be to use the physical body to achieve self-realization and bliss.\n\nJains believe that every human is responsible for his or her actions and all living beings have an eternal soul, \"jiva\". Jains believe all souls are equal because they all possess the potential of being liberated and attaining Moksha. The Jain view of karma is that every action, every word, every thought produces, besides its visible, an invisible, transcendental effect on the soul.\n\nJainism includes strict adherence to ahimsa (or \"ahinsā\"), a form of nonviolence that goes far beyond vegetarianism. Jains refuse food obtained with unnecessary cruelty. Many practice a lifestyle similar to veganism due to the violence of modern dairy farms, and others exclude root vegetables from their diets in order to preserve the lives of the plants from which they eat.\n\nBuddhists practice to embrace with mindfulness the ill-being (suffering) and well-being that is present in life. Buddhists practice to see the causes of ill-being and well-being in life. For example, one of the causes of suffering is unhealthy attachment to objects material or non-material. The Buddhist sūtras and tantras do not speak about \"the meaning of life\" or \"the purpose of life\", but about the potential of human life to end suffering, for example through embracing (not suppressing or denying) cravings and conceptual attachments. Attaining and perfecting dispassion is a process of many levels that ultimately results in the state of Nirvana. Nirvana means freedom from both suffering and rebirth.\nTheravada Buddhism is generally considered to be close to the early Buddhist practice. It promotes the concept of Vibhajjavada (Pali), literally \"Teaching of Analysis\", which says that insight must come from the aspirant's experience, critical investigation, and reasoning instead of by blind faith. However, the Theravadin tradition also emphasizes heeding the advice of the wise, considering such advice and evaluation of one's own experiences to be the two tests by which practices should be judged. The Theravadin goal is liberation (or freedom) from suffering, according to the Four Noble Truths. This is attained in the achievement of Nirvana, or Unbinding which also ends the repeated cycle of birth, old age, sickness and death. The way to attain Nirvana is by following and practicing the Noble Eightfold Path.\n\nMahayana Buddhist schools de-emphasize the traditional view (still practiced in Theravada) of the release from individual Suffering (Dukkha) and attainment of Awakening (Nirvana). In Mahayana, the Buddha is seen as an eternal, immutable, inconceivable, omnipresent being. The fundamental principles of Mahayana doctrine are based on the possibility of universal liberation from suffering for all beings, and the existence of the transcendent Buddha-nature, which is the eternal Buddha essence present, but hidden and unrecognised, in all living beings.\n\nPhilosophical schools of Mahayana Buddhism, such as Chan/Zen and the vajrayana Tibetan and Shingon schools, explicitly teach that bodhisattvas should refrain from full liberation, allowing themselves to be reincarnated into the world until all beings achieve enlightenment. Devotional schools such as Pure Land Buddhism seek the aid of celestial buddhas—individuals who have spent lifetimes accumulating positive karma, and use that accumulation to aid all.\n\nThe monotheistic Sikh religion was founded by Guru Nanak Dev, the term \"Sikh\" means student, which denotes that followers will lead their lives forever learning. This system of religious philosophy and expression has been traditionally known as the Gurmat (literally \"the counsel of the gurus\") or the Sikh Dharma. The followers of Sikhism are ordained to follow the teachings of the ten Sikh Gurus, or enlightened leaders, as well as the holy scripture entitled the \"Gurū Granth Sāhib\", which includes selected works of many philosophers from diverse socio-economic and religious backgrounds.\n\nThe Sikh Gurus say that salvation can be obtained by following various spiritual paths, so Sikhs do not have a monopoly on salvation: \"The Lord dwells in every heart, and every heart has its own way to reach Him.\" Sikhs believe that all people are equally important before God. Sikhs balance their moral and spiritual values with the quest for knowledge, and they aim to promote a life of peace and equality but also of positive action.\n\nA key distinctive feature of Sikhism is a non-anthropomorphic concept of God, to the extent that one can interpret God as the Universe itself (pantheism). Sikhism thus sees life as an opportunity to understand this God as well as to discover the divinity which lies in each individual. While a full understanding of God is beyond human beings, Nanak described God as not wholly unknowable, and stressed that God must be seen from \"the inward eye\", or the \"heart\", of a human being: devotees must meditate to progress towards enlightenment and the ultimate destination of a Sikh is to lose the ego completely in the love of the lord and finally merge into the almighty creator. Nanak emphasized the revelation through meditation, as its rigorous application permits the existence of communication between God and human beings.\n\nTaoist cosmogony emphasizes the need for all sentient beings and all man to return to the \"primordial\" or to rejoin with the \"Oneness\" of the Universe by way of self-cultivation and self-realization. All adherents should understand and be in tune with the ultimate truth.\n\nTaoists believe all things were originally from Taiji and Tao, and the meaning in life for the adherents is to realize the temporal nature of the existence. \"Only introspection can then help us to find our innermost reasons for living ... the simple answer is here within ourselves.\"\n\nShinto is the native religion of Japan. Shinto means \"the path of the kami\", but more specifically, it can be taken to mean \"the divine crossroad where the kami chooses his way\". The \"divine\" crossroad signifies that all the universe is divine spirit. This foundation of free will, choosing one's way, means that life is a creative process.\n\nShinto wants life to live, not to die. Shinto sees death as pollution and regards life as the realm where the divine spirit seeks to purify itself by rightful self-development. Shinto wants individual human life to be prolonged forever on earth as a victory of the divine spirit in preserving its objective personality in its highest forms. The presence of evil in the world, as conceived by Shinto, does not stultify the divine nature by imposing on divinity responsibility for being able to relieve human suffering while refusing to do so. The sufferings of life are the sufferings of the divine spirit in search of progress in the objective world.\n\nThere are many new religious movements in East Asia, and some with millions of followers: Chondogyo, Tenrikyo, Cao Đài, and Seicho-No-Ie. New religions typically have unique explanations for the meaning of life. For example, in Tenrikyo, one is expected to live a Joyous Life by participating in practices that create happiness for oneself and others.\n\nThe mystery of life and its true meaning is an often recurring subject in popular culture, featured in entertainment media and various forms of art.\n\nIn \"Monty Python's The Meaning of Life\", there are several allusions to the meaning of life. At the end of the film, a character played by Michael Palin is handed an envelope containing \"the meaning of life\", which she opens and reads out to the audience: \"Well, it's nothing very special. Uh, try to be nice to people, avoid eating fat, read a good book every now and then, get some walking in, and try to live together in peace and harmony with people of all creeds and nations.\"\n\nMany other Python sketches and songs are also existential in nature, questioning the importance we place on life (\"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\") and other meaning-of-life related questioning. John Cleese also had his sit-com character Basil Fawlty contemplating the futility of his own existence in Fawlty Towers.\n\nIn Douglas Adams' popular comedy book, movie, television, and radio series \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", the Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything is given the numeric solution \"42\", after seven and a half million years of calculation by a giant supercomputer called Deep Thought. When this answer is met with confusion and anger from its constructors, Deep Thought explains that \"I think the problem such as it was, was too broadly based. You never actually stated what the question was.\". Deep Thought then constructs another computer—the Earth—to calculate what the Ultimate Question actually is. \nLater Ford and Arthur manage to extract the question as the Earth computer would have rendered it. That question turns out to be \"what do you get if you multiply six by nine\", and it is realised that the program was ruined by the unexpected arrival of the Golgafrinchans on Earth, and so the actual Ultimate Question Of Life, The Universe, And Everything remains unknown. While 6 x 9 would be written as 42 in the tridecimal numeral system, author Douglas Adams claimed that this was mere coincidence and completely serendipitous.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Homer the Heretic\", a representation of God agrees to tell Homer what the meaning of life is, but the show's credits begin to roll just as he starts to say what it is.\n\nIn \"Red vs. Blue\" season 1 episode 1 the character Simmons asks Grif the question \"Why are we here?\" and is a major line in the series.\n\nIn \"Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure\", the characters are asked how we should live our lives, and reply with a version of the golden rule `be excellent to each other' followed by 'party on, dudes!'.\n\nIn \"Person of Interest\" season 5 episode 13, an artificial intelligence referred to as The Machine tells Harold Finch that the secret of life is \"Everyone dies alone. But if you mean something to someone, if you help someone, or love someone. If even a single person remembers you then maybe you never really die at all.\" This phrase is then repeated at the very end of the show to add emphasis to the finale.\n\n\"What is the meaning of life?\" is a question many people ask themselves at some point during their lives, most in the context \"What is the purpose of life?\". Some popular answers include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43402296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43402296", "title": "Newton County John Does", "text": "Newton County John Does\n\nThe Newton County John Does, also dubbed Adam and Brad, or simply as Victims A and B or Victims 3 and 4, are two young unidentified males whose remains were discovered with those of two other men on October 18, 1983 in Lake Village, Newton County, Indiana by mushroom foragers. Their nicknames were given by Newton County coroner Scott McCord, elected in 2008, to remember that they were people. He learned that the \"victims had never been identified, returned to any family or buried\". He renewed the investigation, recruiting Stephen Nawrocki, a noted forensic anthropologist at the University of Indianapolis, to examine the remains and help develop descriptions of the victims. Nawrocki also gained the assistance of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, whose experts drew portraits of the young men.\n\nAll four of the victims were murdered by Larry Eyler, a serial killer of young men in the 1980s who maintained residences in Terre Haute and Chicago. The Newton County victims had each been bound, drugged, and stabbed more than twenty-four times. Their remains were buried lying face up near an abandoned barn. Two of the four victims found at the scene have since been identified by dental records as Michael Bauer and John Bartlett.\n\nA major reason why neither Adam nor Brad has been identified is because Eyler did not know who they were, unlike the rest of his victims. In addition, he was known to dispose of any identification that he would find on his victims. Hoping to make a plea bargain, Eyler had made a list of his victims while awaiting execution in the 1990s for a 1984 murder in Chicago. He died of AIDS before his execution date. \n\nThe two young men found in Newton County are possibly native to the Midwestern states of Indiana, Wisconsin or Illinois. However, it is possible that they could have been from anywhere in the United States, as Eyler also confessed to some killings in Kentucky. As of January 2014, neither has been buried, as the investigation is still being conducted. Their dental records and DNA are being stored in national databases.\n\nEyler usually knew his murder victims to be gay. Adam and Brad may have been hitchhikers or male prostitutes who had been disowned by their families, if, in fact, they were gay. Besides these two, the Jasper County John Doe, also unidentified in Indiana, is another victim of Eyler.\n\nThe two victims' faces were reconstructed several times, twice by sketching and once digitally, by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. The facial reconstructions by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children reportedly took approximately eighteen months to complete.\n\nIn 2016, a public funeral for the victims was held with an additional unidentified victim in the county. The remains were interred inside of a mausoleum in Riverside Cemetery in Brook, Indiana.\n\nVictim A, or Adam, a black male, was around fifteen to eighteen years of age, but may have been as old as twenty. His hair was cut short and was black. Fillings were also observed in his teeth. He had a distinct red and black belt, inscribed with the word \"devil\" multiple times. The buckle contained the word \"jeans\". A pair of jeans and pajama bottoms were found on his remains, along with a pair of boots. The boots were made in the Hush Puppies design and had metal buckles to fasten them on each side. He was between five feet eight inches to six feet two inches and is believed to have been a hitchhiker.\n\nEyler described the boy to be between fifteen and twenty years old and confirmed the suspicion that he had been picked up near Terre Haute, Indiana in July 1983. Eyler had previously targeted hitchhikers after he had relationship troubles with his partner. Investigator Scott McCord believes that Adam was likely native to the region, perhaps from around Chicago or St. Louis. He was also previously known as Victim 3, as he was one of four to be found at the burial site. \n\nMcCord stated that he preferred to use names instead of numbers when he referred to the victims. Like most of Larry Eyler's other victims, Adam had his pants pulled down to his ankles. \n\nIn a confession letter released by Larry Eyler's defense attorney Kathleen Zellner, Eyler said that after an argument with his boyfriend, he drove toward Terre Haute, Indiana in the third week of July 1983. While traveling through the town, he met a hitchhiker who matched Adam's description. Further in the document, it was described that the young man was offered seventy-five dollars to allow Eyler to \"perform a sexual act\" with him. After Eyler drugged the young man with alcohol and an unspecified drug, he took him to the barn; the young man's body was later found buried nearby. Subsequently, he was bound, blindfolded and was eventually stabbed multiple times in his upper and lower midsection. According to Eyler, his last words to the victim were, \"Okay, make your peace with God, nigger.\" \n\nEyler wrote that he buried Adam separately from the three other victims he had previously murdered. He said it was \"not proper\" to bury an African American with European Americans.\n\nVictim B, or Brad, was determined to have been a white male and, like Adam, could have been a hitchhiker. He was between seventeen and twenty-three years old, and may have been a smoker, due to staining on his teeth. He had two known tattoos on his forearm, which were later photographed after his body was cleaned and re-hydrated. One was a cross with two circular marks, located on the underside of his arm, near his wrist. The other was a rectangular, or possibly a \"U\" shape, containing one circular mark, which was found on the other side of his arm.\n\nHe wore mismatched socks and jockey undershorts, along with brown slacks, which were partially removed, as was typical of other victims. Brad wore boots, which were ankle-high, hiking-style, with brown fleece interior. Metal eyelets were used to fasten them. Brad's boots are no longer available for examination. Because of the type of tattoos he had, he may have served time in jail or a juvenile detention center.\n\nHe was likely shorter than Adam, approximately five feet two inches to five feet ten inches tall; weighing around 130 to 160 pounds. Some reports said that he could have been as old as twenty-eight and may have been as tall as six feet one inch. He had wavy reddish hair, and some dental fillings. His death was estimated as between 1981 and 1983, although his tattoos were still preserved and recognizable. He had at one time fractured his nose and ankle, breaks described as somewhat severe. His body was found buried in the same grave as Bartlett and Bauer. Like Adam, he was given a more generic name in the past, as Victim 4. \n\nBrad and Adam may have been from as far away as Canada, which is another reason why they remain unidentified. DNA was obtained from one of Brad's bones, intended for testing in comparison to a family who could have been related to him. Larry Eyler did not remember where or when he met Brad.\n\n"}
{"id": "26105230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26105230", "title": "Nonkilling Global Political Science", "text": "Nonkilling Global Political Science\n\nNonkilling Global Political Science is a 2002 book written by political scientist Glenn D. Paige. In his book, Paige challenges the violence-accepting assumptions of the discipline of political science as a whole. Paige introduces the concept of Nonkilling, which refers to the absence of killing, threats to kill, and conditions conducive to killing in human society.\n\nBy 2009 the book was being translated into 34 languages and had led to convening the First Global Nonkilling Leadership Forum in Honolulu, Hawai‘i, 1–4 November 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47729170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47729170", "title": "Outrage porn", "text": "Outrage porn\n\nOutrage porn refers to any type of media that is designed to evoke outrage for the purpose getting traffic or attention online. The term \"outrage porn\" was coined by political cartoonist and essayist Tim Kreider of The \"New York Times\". Coined in 2009, the term was later popularized by author and \"Observer\" media critic Ryan Holiday.\n\nOutrage porn is a term used to explain media that is created not in order to generate sympathy, but rather to cause anger or outrage among its consumers. It is characterized by insincere rage, umbrage and indignation. Media outlets are often incentivized to feign outrage because it specifically triggers many of the most lucrative online behaviors, including leaving comments, repeat pageviews and social sharing, which the outlets capitalize on. Salon, Gawker and affiliated websites Valleywag and Jezebel have been noted for abusing the tactic.\n\nJonah Berger, a professor of marketing at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania conducted a study on the spreadability of emotions via social media and concluded that, \"Anger is a high-arousal emotion, which drives people to take action...It makes you feel fired up, which makes you more likely to pass things on.” Additionally, online audiences may be susceptible to outrage porn in part because of their feeling of powerlessness to managers, politicians, creditors and celebrities.\n\nTim Kreider makes a distinction between authentic outrage and outrage porn by stating, \"I’m not saying that all outrage is inherently irrational, that we should all just calm down, that It’s All Good. All is not good...Outrage is healthy to the extent that it causes us to act against injustice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28714383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28714383", "title": "Petz: Crazy Monkeyz", "text": "Petz: Crazy Monkeyz\n\nPetz: Crazy Monkeyz (sometimes called simply Crazy Monkeyz) is a sim game developed and published by Ubisoft and released for the Wii on February 13, 2009.\n\n\"Crazy Monkeyz\" is a sim game designed for 1 player and revolving around caring for a monkey.\n\nTo start you can choose from two species of monkey (others can be unlocked later), each has three coat types to choose from but you will be unable to see the other two. From there you can feed your monkey, play with it, dress it up, breed it, or turn on the TV for it (plays a non-stop commercial for the game).\n\nThe game has received largely negative reviews. There is little to do in the game besides feeding and dressing up the monkey. Balls and other toys will fall through the monkeys hands and in the backyard area of the game you cannot interact with your monkey. Also, in the adoption center when you go to choose your monkey, you get the choice to choose a color, but it does not tell you what you are choosing.\n\n"}
{"id": "17034271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17034271", "title": "Posthuman", "text": "Posthuman\n\nPosthuman or post-human is a concept originating in the fields of science fiction, futurology, contemporary art, and philosophy that literally means a person or entity that exists in a state beyond being human. The concept addresses questions of ethics and justice, language and trans-species communication, social systems, and the intellectual aspirations of interdisciplinarity.\n\nPosthumanism is not to be confused with transhumanism (the nanobiotechnological enhancement of human beings) and narrow definitions of the posthuman as the hoped-for transcendence of materiality. The notion of the posthuman comes up both in posthumanism as well as transhumanism, but it has a special meaning in each tradition. In 2017, Penn State University Press in cooperation with Stefan Lorenz Sorgner and James Hughes (sociologist) established the \"Journal of Posthuman Studies\" in which all aspects of the concept \"posthuman\" can be analysed.\n\nIn critical theory, the posthuman is a speculative being that represents or seeks to re-conceive the human. It is the object of posthumanist criticism, which critically questions humanism, a branch of humanist philosophy which claims that human nature is a universal state from which the human being emerges; human nature is autonomous, rational, capable of free will, and unified in itself as the apex of existence. Thus, the posthuman position recognizes imperfectability and disunity within him or herself, and understands the world through heterogeneous perspectives while seeking to maintain intellectual rigour and a dedication to objective observations. Key to this posthuman practice is the ability to fluidly change perspectives and manifest oneself through different identities. The posthuman, for critical theorists of the subject, has an emergent ontology rather than a stable one; in other words, the posthuman is not a singular, defined individual, but rather one who can \"become\" or embody different identities and understand the world from multiple, heterogeneous perspectives.\n\nCritical discourses surrounding posthumanism are not homogeneous, but in fact present a series of often contradictory ideas, and the term itself is contested, with one of the foremost authors associated with posthumanism, Manuel de Landa, decrying the term as \"very silly.\" Covering the ideas of, for example, Robert Pepperell's \"The Posthuman Condition\", and Hayles's \"How We Became Posthuman\" under a single term is distinctly problematic due to these contradictions.\n\nThe posthuman is roughly synonymous with the \"cyborg\" of \"A Cyborg Manifesto\" by Donna Haraway. Haraway's conception of the cyborg is an ironic take on traditional conceptions of the cyborg that inverts the traditional trope of the cyborg whose presence questions the salient line between humans and robots. Haraway's cyborg is in many ways the \"beta\" version of the posthuman, as her cyborg theory prompted the issue to be taken up in critical theory. Following Haraway, Hayles, whose work grounds much of the critical posthuman discourse, asserts that liberal humanism—which separates the mind from the body and thus portrays the body as a \"shell\" or vehicle for the mind—becomes increasingly complicated in the late 20th and 21st centuries because information technology puts the human body in question. Hayles maintains that we must be conscious of information technology advancements while understanding information as \"disembodied,\" that is, something which cannot fundamentally replace the human body but can only be incorporated into it and human life practices.\n\nThe idea of post-posthumanism (post-cyborgism) has recently been introduced.\nThis body of work outlines the after-effects of long-term adaptation to cyborg technologies and their subsequent removal, e.g., what happens after 20 years of constantly wearing computer-mediating eyeglass technologies and subsequently removing them, and of long-term adaptation to virtual worlds followed by return to \"reality.\" and the associated post-cyborg ethics (e.g. the ethics of forced removal of cyborg technologies by authorities, etc.).\n\nPosthuman political and natural rights have been framed on a spectrum with animal rights and human rights. Posthumanism broadens the scope of what it means to be a valued life form and to be treated as such (in contrast to certain life forms being seen as less-than and being taken advantage of or killed off); it “calls for a more inclusive definition of life, and a greater moral-ethical response, and responsibility, to non-human life forms in the age of species blurring and species mixing. … [I]t interrogates the hierarchic ordering – and subsequently exploitation and even eradication – of life forms.” \n\nAccording to transhumanist thinkers, a posthuman is a hypothetical future being \"whose basic capacities so radically exceed those of present humans as to be no longer unambiguously human by our current standards.\" Posthumans primarily focus on cybernetics, the posthuman consequent and the relationship to digital technology. The emphasis is on systems. Transhumanism does not focus on either of these. Instead, transhumanism focuses on the modification of the human species via any kind of emerging science, including genetic engineering, digital technology, and bioengineering.\n\nPosthumans could be completely synthetic artificial intelligences, or a symbiosis of human and artificial intelligence, or uploaded consciousnesses, or the result of making many smaller but cumulatively profound technological augmentations to a biological human, i.e. a cyborg. Some examples of the latter are redesigning the human organism using advanced nanotechnology or radical enhancement using some combination of technologies such as genetic engineering, psychopharmacology, life extension therapies, neural interfaces, advanced information management tools, memory enhancing drugs, wearable or implanted computers, and cognitive techniques.\n\nAs used in this article, \"posthuman\" does not necessarily refer to a conjectured future where humans are extinct or otherwise absent from the Earth. As with other species who speciate from one another, both humans and posthumans could continue to exist. However, the apocalyptic scenario appears to be a viewpoint shared among a minority of transhumanists such as Marvin Minsky and Hans Moravec, who could be considered misanthropes, at least in regard to humanity in its current state. Alternatively, others such as Kevin Warwick argue for the likelihood that both humans and posthumans will continue to exist but the latter will predominate in society over the former because of their abilities. Recently, scholars have begun to speculate that posthumanism provides an alternative analysis of apocalyptic cinema and fiction, often casting vampires, werewolves and even zombies as potential evolutions of the human form and being.\n\nMany science fiction authors, such as Greg Egan, H. G. Wells, Isaac Asimov, Bruce Sterling, Frederik Pohl, Greg Bear, Charles Stross, Neal Asher, Ken MacLeod, Peter F. Hamilton and authors of the Orion's Arm Universe, have written works set in posthuman futures.\n\nA variation on the posthuman theme is the notion of a \"posthuman god\"; the idea that posthumans, being no longer confined to the parameters of human nature, might grow physically and mentally so powerful as to appear possibly god-like by present-day human standards. This notion should not be interpreted as being related to the idea portrayed in some science fiction that a sufficiently advanced species may \"ascend\" to a higher plane of existence—rather, it merely means that some posthuman beings may become so exceedingly intelligent and technologically sophisticated that their behaviour would not possibly be comprehensible to modern humans, purely by reason of their limited intelligence and imagination.\n"}
{"id": "1100944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1100944", "title": "Princess Marie Louise of Bourbon-Parma", "text": "Princess Marie Louise of Bourbon-Parma\n\nPrincess Maria Luisa of Bourbon-Parma (Marie Louise Pia Theresa Anna Ferdinanda Francisca Antonia Margaret Josepha Carolina Blanche Lucia Apollonia;17 January 1870 – 31 January 1899) was the eldest daughter of Robert I, the last reigning Duke of Parma. She became Princess-consort of Bulgaria upon her marriage to Ferdinand of Bulgaria, the then prince-regnant (who became Tsar after her death). She was the mother of Tsar Boris III of Bulgaria.\n\nMarie Louise was born in Rome in 1870 as \"Maria Luisa Pia Teresa Anna Ferdinanda Francesca Antonietta Margherita Giuseppina Carolina Bianca Lucia Apollonia di Borbone-Parma\", the eldest daughter of Robert I, Duke of Parma and his first wife, Princess Maria Pia of Bourbon-Two Sicilies. The couple produced eleven more children before Maria Pia died in childbirth in 1882. Several of these twelve were born with severe mental retardation. Later, Duke Roberto remarried Infanta Maria Antonia of Portugal and had twelve more children. Marie Louise, who was twelve at the time of her mother's death, was brought up in Biarritz and Switzerland under the care of English governesses. Fluent in five languages, she liked painting and music. Her talents playing the guitar and the piano were judged to be well above the average. She was also well read and knew a lot of Dante and Leopardi by heart.\n\nIn 1892, her father arranged her marriage to the then reigning Prince of Bulgaria, Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. The negotiations were conducted between Duke Robert and Ferdinand's mother, Princess Clémentine of Orléans. The engagement was celebrated at the Castle of Schwartzau, the residence of the Bourbon-Parma family in Austria. Marie-Louise and Ferdinand had never met prior to that day. Princess Clémentine, who was present on that occasion, described her future daughter-in-law in a letter to Queen Victoria as \"Unhappily not very pretty, it is the only thing which is lacking, since she is charming, good, very witty, intelligent and very likable\". The wedding took place on 20 April 1893 at the Villa Pianore in Lucca, Italy, the residence of Duke Roberto in Italy. Marie Louise was twenty three, nine years younger than Ferdinand. The couple wasted no time producing an heir, with son Boris born nine months and ten days later. \n\nMarie Louise was not loved by her husband. However, he made sure that in order to secure his lineage on the Bulgarian throne, she would bear him children. Under pressure from his subjects and looking to be recognized as Bulgaria's sovereign by the Russian emperor, Ferdinand wanted to have their eldest son, Boris, converted to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the summer of 1895. Marie Louise, pregnant, argued bitterly against her husband's actions, with the support of her father and her mother-in-law.\n\nThe second child received baptism with Roman Catholic rites. However, unable to avoid Boris's conversion, Marie Louise, who had threatened to leave the country, left Sofia that same day for Beaulieu. In May 1896 Marie Louise returned to Bulgaria. In the summer, she went to London with her husband for Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee, giving birth the following January to Princess Eudoxia. In July 1898 with her husband and their four-year-old, Boris, they visited St Petersburg at the invitation of Nicholas II of Russia, and Marie Louise made a success of the visit. \n\nDisillusionment in her private life and bearing four children in five years affected her frail health. Suffering from pneumonia, Marie Louise died in Sofia, twenty four hours after giving birth to her fourth child. Aged just 29, she was buried in the Roman Catholic Cathedral of St Louis of France in Plovdiv. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162393", "title": "Rin Tin Tin", "text": "Rin Tin Tin\n\nRin Tin Tin (often hyphenated as Rin-Tin-Tin; September 1918 – August 10, 1932) was a male German Shepherd that was an international star in motion pictures. He was rescued from a World War I battlefield by an American soldier, Lee Duncan, who nicknamed him \"Rinty\". Duncan trained Rin Tin Tin and obtained silent film work for the dog. Rin Tin Tin was an immediate box-office success and went on to appear in 27 Hollywood films, gaining worldwide fame. Along with the earlier canine film star Strongheart, Rin Tin Tin was responsible for greatly increasing the popularity of German Shepherd dogs as family pets. The immense profitability of his films contributed to the success of Warner Bros. studios and helped advance the career of Darryl F. Zanuck. \n\nAfter Rin Tin Tin died in 1932, the name was given to several related German Shepherd dogs featured in fictional stories on film, radio, and television. Rin Tin Tin Jr. appeared in some serialized films, but was not as talented as his father. Rin Tin Tin III, said to be Rin Tin Tin's grandson, but probably only distantly related, helped promote the military use of dogs during World War II. Rin Tin Tin III also appeared in a film with child actor Robert Blake in 1947. \n\nDuncan groomed Rin Tin Tin IV for the 1950s television series \"The Adventures of Rin Tin Tin\", but the dog performed poorly in a screen test and was replaced in the TV show by trainer Frank Barnes's dogs, primarily one named Flame Jr., called JR, with the public led to believe otherwise. Instead of shooting episodes, Rin Tin Tin IV stayed at home in Riverside, California. The TV show \"Rin Tin Tin\" was nominated for a PATSY Award in 1958 and in 1959, but did not win.\n\nAfter Duncan died in 1960, the screen property of Rin Tin Tin passed to TV producer Herbert B. \"Bert\" Leonard, who worked on further adaptations such as the 1988–1993 Canadian-made TV show \"Katts and Dog\" which was called \"Rin Tin Tin: K-9 Cop\" in the US and \"Rintintin Junior\" in France. After Leonard died in 2006, Leonard's lawyer James Tierney made the 2007 children's film \"Finding Rin Tin Tin\", an American–Bulgarian production based on Duncan's discovery of the dog in France. Meanwhile, a Rin Tin Tin memorabilia collection was being amassed by Texas resident Jannettia Propps Brodsgaard, who had purchased several direct descendant dogs from Duncan beginning with Rinty Tin Tin Brodsgaard in 1957. Brodsgaard bred the dogs to keep the bloodline. Brodsgaard's granddaughter, Daphne Hereford, continued to build on the tradition and bloodline of Rin Tin Tin from 1988 to 2011; she was the first to trademark the name Rin Tin Tin in 1993 (Duncan had never done so) and she bought the domain names rintintin.com and rintintin.net to establish a website. Hereford also opened a short-lived Rin Tin Tin museum in Latexo, Texas. Hereford passed the tradition to her daughter, Dorothy Yanchak, in 2011. The current Rin Tin Tin XII dog owned by Yanchak takes part in public events to represent the Rin Tin Tin legacy.\n\nFollowing advances made by American forces during the Battle of Saint-Mihiel, Corporal Lee Duncan, an aerial gunner of the U.S. Army Air Service, was sent forward on September 15, 1918, to the small French village of Flirey to see if it would make a suitable flying field for his unit, the 135th Aero Squadron. The area had been subject to bombs and artillery, and Duncan found a severely damaged kennel which had once supplied the Imperial German Army with German Shepherd dogs. The only dogs left alive in the kennel were a starving mother with a litter of five nursing puppies, their eyes still shut because they were less than a week old. Duncan rescued the dogs and brought them back to his unit. \n\nWhen the puppies were weaned, he gave the mother to an officer and three of the litter to other soldiers, but he kept a male and a female. He felt that these two dogs were symbols of his good luck. He called them Rin Tin Tin and Nanette after a pair of good luck charms called Rintintin and Nénette that French children often gave to the American soldiers. Duncan sensed that Nanette was the smarter of the two puppies. (The soldiers were usually told that Rintintin and Nénette were lucky lovers which had survived a bombing attack, but the original dolls had been designed by Francisque Poulbot before the war in late 1913 to look like Paris street urchins. Contrary to popular usage, Poulbot said that Rintintin was the girl doll.)\n\nIn July 1919, Duncan managed to bundle the dogs aboard a ship taking him back to the US at the end of the war. When he got to Long Island, New York, for re-entry processing, he put his dogs in the care of a Hempstead breeder named Mrs. Leo Wanner, who raised police dogs. Nanette was diagnosed with pneumonia; as a replacement, the breeder gave Duncan another female German Shepherd puppy. Duncan headed to California by rail with his dogs. While Duncan was traveling by train, Nanette died in Hempstead. As a memorial, Duncan named his new puppy Nanette II, but he called her Nanette. Duncan, Rin Tin Tin, and Nanette II settled at his home in Los Angeles. Rin Tin Tin was a dark sable color and had very dark eyes. Nanette II was much lighter in color.\n\nAn athletic silent film actor named Eugene Pallette was one of Duncan's friends. The two men enjoyed the outdoors; they took the dogs to the Sierras, where Pallette liked to hunt while Duncan taught Rin Tin Tin various tricks. Duncan thought that his dog might win a few awards at dog shows and thus be a valuable source of puppy sales, bred with Nanette. In 1922, Duncan was a founding member of the Shepherd Dog Club of California, based in Los Angeles. At the club's first show, Rin Tin Tin showed his agility, but also demonstrated an aggressive temper, growling, barking and snapping. It was a very poor performance, but the worst moment came afterward when Duncan was walking home. A heavy bundle of newspapers was thrown off of a delivery truck and it landed on the dog, breaking his left front leg. Duncan had the injured limb set in plaster and he nursed the dog back to health for nine months.\n\nTen months after the break, the leg was healed and Rin Tin Tin was entered in a show for German Shepherd dogs in Los Angeles. Rin Tin Tin had learned to leap great heights. At the dog show while making a winning leap of , he was filmed by Duncan's acquaintance Charley Jones, who had just developed a slow-motion camera. Seeing his dog being filmed, Duncan became convinced Rin Tin Tin could become the next Strongheart, a successful film dog that lived in his own full-sized stucco bungalow with its own street address in the Hollywood Hills, separate from the mansion of his owners, who lived a block away next to Roy Rogers. Duncan later wrote, \"I was so excited over the motion-picture idea that I found myself thinking of it night and day.\"\n\nDuncan walked his dog up and down Poverty Row, talking to anyone in a position to put Rin Tin Tin in film, however modest the role. The dog's first break came when he was asked to replace a camera-shy wolf in \"The Man from Hell's River\" (1922) featuring Wallace Beery. The wolf was not performing properly for the director, but under the guidance of Duncan's voice commands, Rin Tin Tin was very easy to work with. When the film was completed, the dog was billed as \"Rin Tan\". Rin Tin Tin would be cast as a wolf or wolf-hybrid many times in his career because it was much more convenient for filmmakers to work with a trained dog. In another 1922 film titled \"My Dad\", Rin Tin Tin picked up a small part as a household dog. The credits read: \"Rin Tin Tin – Played by himself\".\n\nRin Tin Tin's first starring role was in \"Where the North Begins\" (1923), playing alongside silent screen actress Claire Adams. This film was a huge success and has often been credited with saving Warner Bros. from bankruptcy. It was followed by 24 more screen appearances. Each of these films was very popular, making such a profit for Warner Bros. that Rin Tin Tin was called \"the mortgage lifter\" by studio insiders. A young screenwriter named Darryl F. Zanuck was involved in creating stories for Rin Tin Tin; the success of the films raised him to the position of respected film producer. In New York City, Mayor Jimmy Walker gave Rin Tin Tin a key to the city.\n\nRin Tin Tin was much sought after and was signed for endorsement deals. He was featured in ads for Ken-L Ration, Ken-L-Biskit, and Pup-E-Crumbles. Warner Bros. got thousands of requests for publicity photographs of Rinty, which were signed with a paw print and a line written by Duncan: \"Most faithfully, Rin Tin Tin.\" In the 1920s, Rin Tin Tin's success for Warner Bros. inspired several imitations from other studios looking to cash in on his popularity, notably RKO's Ace the Wonder Dog, also a German Shepherd dog. Around the world, Rin Tin Tin was extremely popular, because as a dog, he was equally well understood by all viewers. At the time, silent films were easily adapted for various countries by simply changing the language of the intertitles. Rin Tin Tin's films were widely distributed. By 1927, Rin Tin Tin was the most popular actor with the very sophisticated film audience in Berlin.\n\nAuthor Susan Orlean investigated the Hollywood legend that Rin Tin Tin received the most votes for Best Actor at the first Academy Award competition in 1929. Orlean says that the Academy wished to appear more serious, that they determined to have a human actor win the award. Rin Tin Tin was removed as a choice and the votes were cast once more: German actor Emil Jannings won the Best Actor award.\n\nAlthough primarily a star of silent films, Rin Tin Tin did appear in four sound features, including the 12-part Mascot Studios chapter-play \"The Lightning Warrior\" (1931), co-starring with Frankie Darro. In these films, vocal commands would have been picked up by the microphones, so Duncan likely guided Rin Tin Tin by hand signals. Rin Tin Tin and the rest of the crew filmed much of the outdoor action footage for \"The Lightning Warrior\" on the Iverson Movie Ranch in Chatsworth, Los Angeles, California, known for its huge sandstone boulders and widely recognized as the most heavily filmed outdoor shooting location in the history of the movies.\n\nRin Tin Tin and Nanette produced at least 48 puppies; Duncan kept two of them, selling the rest or giving them as gifts. Greta Garbo, W.K. Kellogg, and Jean Harlow each owned one of Rin Tin Tin's descendants.\n\nOn August 10, 1932, Rin Tin Tin died at Duncan's home on Club View Drive in Los Angeles. Duncan wrote about the death in his unpublished memoir: He heard Rin Tin Tin bark in a peculiar fashion so he went to see what was wrong. He found the dog lying on the ground, moments away from death. Newspapers across the nation carried obituaries. Magazine articles were written about his life, and a special Movietone News feature was shown to movie audiences. In the press, the death was given a wide variety of fabrications such as Rin Tin Tin dying on the set of the film \"Pride of the Legion\" (where Rin Tin Tin Jr. was working), dying at night, and dying at home on the front lawn in the arms of actress Jean Harlow, who lived on the same street. In a private ceremony, Duncan buried Rin Tin Tin in a bronze casket in his own backyard with a plain wooden cross to mark the location. Duncan was suffering the financial effects of the Great Depression and could not afford a finer burial, nor even his own expensive house. He sold his house and quietly arranged to have the dog's body returned to his country of birth for reburial in the Cimetière des Chiens et Autres Animaux Domestiques, the famous pet cemetery in the Parisian suburb of Asnières-sur-Seine.\n\nIn the United States, his death set off a national response. Regular programming was interrupted by a news bulletin. An hour-long program about Rin Tin Tin played the next day. In a ceremony February 8, 1960, Rin Tin Tin was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1627 Vine Street.\n\nRin Tin Tin Jr. was sired by Rin Tin Tin, and his mother was Champion Asta of Linwood, also owned by Lee Duncan. Junior appeared in several films in the 1930s. He starred with Rex the Wild Horse in the Mascot Pictures serials, \"The Law of the Wild\" (1934) and \"The Adventures of Rex and Rinty\" (1935). He voiced the part of Rinty in the radio shows produced during that era, as well. \n\nRin Tin Tin Jr. died in December 1941, of pneumonia.\n\n! Year\n! Title\n! Role\n! scope=\"col\" class=\"unsortable\" | Notes\n"}
{"id": "32759801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32759801", "title": "Russell H. Adams", "text": "Russell H. Adams\n\nRussell Hartley Adams (April 22, 1899 – March 19, 1956) was an American attorney who served as Allegheny County District Attorney, including metropolitan Pittsburgh, from January 1942 until December 17, 1945. He was a member of the Republican Party.\n\nAdams was born in Duquesne, Pennsylvania, to Harry H. Adams and Gwendolyn Davis. He died of coronary occlusion in Mt. Lebanon, Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "6984635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6984635", "title": "Seed predation", "text": "Seed predation\n\nSeed predation, often referred to as granivory, is a type of plant-animal interaction in which granivores (seed predators) feed on the seeds of plants as a main or exclusive food source, in many cases leaving the seeds damaged and not viable. Granivores are found across many families of vertebrates (especially mammals and birds) as well as invertebrates (mainly insects); thus, seed predation occurs in virtually all terrestrial ecosystems. Seed predation is commonly divided into two distinctive temporal categories, pre-dispersal and post-dispersal predation, which may involve different strategies and requirements and have different implications at the individual and population level. Nevertheless, regardless of timing, seed predation has great implications for plant population dynamics. To counterbalance effects of predation, plants have evolved defenses such as seed morphology (size, shape, toughness) and chemical defenses (secondary compounds such as tannins and alkaloids) to defend against their seed predators. However, as plants have adapted defenses to seed predation (e.g., chemical compounds), so have seed predators adapted to plant defenses (e.g., ability to detoxify chemical compounds). Thus, many interesting examples of coevolution arise from this dynamic relationship.\n\nPlant seeds are important sources of nutrition for animals across most ecosystems. Seeds contain food storage organs (e.g., endosperm) that provide nutrients to the developing plant embryo (cotyledon). This makes seeds an attractive food source for animals because they are a highly concentrated and localized nutrient source in relation to other plant parts. \n\nSeeds of many plants have evolved a variety of defenses to deter predation from seed predators. Plants may allocate resources toward physical or chemical defenses. Seeds are often contained inside protective structures or fruit pulp that encapsulate seeds until they are ripe. Other physical defenses include spines, hairs, fibrous seed coats and hard endosperm. Seeds, especially in arid areas, may have a mucilaginous seed coat that can glue soil to seed hiding it from granivores.\n\nSome seeds have evolved strong anti-herbivore chemical compounds. In contrast to physical defenses, chemical defenses in seeds to deter consumption by seed predators by using chemicals that are toxic to granivores or inhibit the digestibility of the seed. These chemicals include toxic non-protein amino acids, cyanogenic glycosides, protease and amylase inhibitors, and phytohemaglutinins. Seeds face trade-offs between allocation toward defenses and the size and number of seeds produced. Additionally plants have trade-offs in seed defense allocation between deterring seed predators and attracting seed dispersers.\n\nPlants may reduce the severity of seed predation by making seeds spatially or temporally scarce to granivores. Seed dispersal away from the parent plant is hypothesized to reduce the severity of seed predation. Seed masting is an example of how plant populations are able to temporally regulate the severity of seed predation. Masting refers to a concerted abundance of seed production followed by a period of paucity. This strategy has the potential to regulate the size of the population of seed predators.\n\nSeed predation can occur both before and after seed dispersal. \n\nPre-dispersal seed predation takes place when seeds are removed from the parent plant before dispersal, and it has been most often reported in invertebrates, birds, and in granivorous rodents that clip fruits directly from trees and herbaceous plants. Post-dispersal seed predation arises once seeds have been released from the parent plant. Birds, rodents, and ants are known to be among the most pervasive postdispersal seed predators. Furthermore, postdispersal seed predation can take place at two contrasting stages: predation on the \"seed rain\" and predation on the \"seed bank\". Whereas predation on the seed rain occurs when animals prey on released seeds usually flush with the ground surface, predation on the seed bank takes place after seeds have been incorporated deeply into the soil. Nevertheless, there are important vertebrate pre-dispersal predators, especially birds and small mammals.\n\nPost-dispersal seed predation is extremely common in virtually all ecosystems. Given the heterogeneity in both resource type (seeds from different species), quality (seeds of different ages and/or different status of integrity or decomposition) and location (seeds are scattered and hidden in the environment), most post-dispersal predators have generalist habits. These predators belong to a diverse array of animals, such as ants, beetles, crabs, fish, rodents and birds. The assemblage of post-dispersal seed predators varies considerably among ecosystems.\n\nBoth pre- and post-dispersal seed predation are common. Pre-dispersal predators differ from post-dispersal predators in most often being specialists, adapted to clustered resources (on the plant). They use specific cues like plant chemistry (volatile compounds), color, and size to locate seeds, and their short life cycles often match the production of seeds by the host plant. Insect groups containing many pre-dispersal seed predators are Coleoptera, Hemiptera, Hymenoptera and Lepidoptera.\n\nThe complex relationship between seed predation and plant demography is an important topic of plant-animal interactive studies. Plant population structure and size over time is closely associated with the effectiveness at which seed predators locate, consume, and disperse seeds. In many cases this relationship is dependent upon the type of seed predator (specialist vs. generalist) or the particular habitat in which the interaction is taking place. The role of seed predation on plant demography may be either detrimental or in particular cases actually beneficial to plant populations. \n\nThe Janzen-Connell model concerns how seed density and survival respond to distance from the parent tree and differential rates of seed predation. Seed density is hypothesized to decrease as distance from the parent tree increases. Where seeds are most abundant under the parent tree, seed predation is predicted to be at its highest. As distance from the parent tree increases, seed abundance and thus seed predation are predicted to decrease as seed survival increases.\n\nThe degree to which seed predation influences plant populations may vary by whether a plant species is safe site limited or seed limited. If a population is safe site limited it is likely that seed predation will have little impact to the success of the population. In safe site limited populations increased seed abundance does not translate into increased seedling recruitment. However, if a population is seed limited, seed predation has a better chance of negatively affecting the plant population by decreasing seedling recruitment. Maron and Simms found both safe site limited and seed limited populations depending on the habitat in which the seed predation was taking place. In dune habitats seed predators (deer mice) were limiting seedling recruitment in the population, thus negatively affecting the population. However, in grassland habitat the seed predator had little effect on the plant population because it was safe site limited. \n\nIn many cases seed predators support plant populations by dispersing seeds away from the parent plant, in effect supporting gene flow between populations. Other seed predators collect seeds and then store or cache them for later consumption. In the case that the seed predator is unable to locate the buried or hidden seed there is a chance that it will later germinate and grow, supporting the species dispersal. Generalist (vertebrate) seed predators may also aid the plant in other indirect ways, for instance by inducing top-down control on host-specific seed predators (termed \"intra-guild predation\"), and as such negating Janzen-Connell type effects and so benefiting the plant in competition with other plant species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55669746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55669746", "title": "Simulation governance", "text": "Simulation governance\n\nSimulation governance is a managerial function concerned with assurance of reliability of information generated by numerical simulation. The term was introduced in 2011 and specific technical requirements were addressed from the perspective of mechanical design in 2012 . Its strategic importance was addressed in 2015 . At the 2017 NAFEMS World Congress in Stockholm simulation governance was identified as the first of eight “big issues” in numerical simulation.\n\nSimulation governance is concerned with (a) selection and adoption of the best available simulation technology, (b) formulation of mathematical models, (c) management of experimental data, (d) data and solution verification procedures, and (e) revision of mathematical models in the light of new information collected from physical experiments and field observations . \n\nA plan for simulation governance has to be tailored to fit the mission of each organization or department within an organization: If that mission is to apply established rules of design and certification then emphasis is on solution verification and standardization. If, on the other hand, that mission is to formulate design rules, or make condition-based maintenance decisions, then verification, validation and uncertainty quantification must be part of the plan.\n"}
{"id": "1121130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1121130", "title": "Vaughn Meader", "text": "Vaughn Meader\n\nAbbott Vaughn Meader (March 20, 1936 – October 29, 2004) was an American comedian, impersonator, musician, and film actor.\n\nMeader began his career as a musician but later found fame in the early 1960s after the release of the 1962 comedy record \"The First Family\". The album spoofed President John F. Kennedy – who was played by Meader – and became the fastest selling album in history and went on to win the Grammy Award for Album of the Year in 1963. At the peak of his popularity, he performed his Kennedy impersonation on variety shows and in nightclubs around the country and was profiled in several magazines.\n\nMeader's career success came to an abrupt end after President Kennedy was assassinated in November 1963. \"The First Family\" was quickly pulled from stores and Meader’s bookings were canceled. He attempted to take his career in a different direction by performing non-Kennedy related comedy and released a new comedy album, \"Have Some Nuts!!!\", in early 1964. However, sales for the album were low \nas public interest in Meader had waned. His career never rebounded as he was too closely associated with President Kennedy. Meader eventually returned to his native Maine where he resumed performing music and managed a pub.\n\nMeader was born in Waterville, Maine during one of the worst floods ever to hit New England: he often said he was born on \"the night the West Bridge washed out\". He was the only child of Charles Vaughn Meader, a millworker, and Mary Ellen Abbott. After his father broke his neck and drowned in a diving accident when Meader was only eighteen months old, his mother moved to Boston to work as a cocktail waitress, leaving Meader behind with relatives. A sometimes unruly and troubled child, Meader was sent to live with his mother in Boston at the age of five but she had become an alcoholic, and placed him in a children's home.\n\nAfter shuttling among several schools in Massachusetts and Maine, Meader eventually graduated from Brookline High School in 1953. He enlisted in the United States Army, and while stationed in Mannheim, West Germany as a laboratory technician formed a country music band – the Rhine Rangers – with fellow soldiers, later adding impressions of popular singers to his repertoire. Meader married the German-born Vera Heller in 1955.\n\nMeader began his career in entertainment as a singer and piano player. Upon his return from Germany, he began a comedy act in New York City, where he discovered his skill at impersonating Kennedy. With his New England accent naturally close to Kennedy's familiar, and often parodied, Harvard accent, he needed to adjust his voice only slightly to sound like the President. Meader also mastered the facial expressions that allowed him to bear a passable resemblance to Kennedy.\n\nOn October 22, 1962, Meader joined writers Bob Booker and Earle Doud and a small cast of entertainers to record \"The First Family\". The album poked fun at Kennedy's PT-109 history; the rocking chairs he used for his back pain; the Kennedy family's well-known athleticism, football games and family togetherness; children in the White House; and Jackie Kennedy's soft-spoken nature and her redecoration of the White House. \"The First Family\" became the fastest-selling record in the history of the United States. It sold 1.2 million copies during the first two weeks of its release, and ultimately sold 7.5 million copies.\n\nKennedy himself was said to have given copies of the album as Christmas gifts, and once greeted a Democratic National Committee group by saying, \"Vaughn Meader was busy tonight, so I came myself.\" At one press conference, Kennedy was asked if the album had produced \"annoyment or enjoyment.\" He jokingly responded, \"I listened to Mr. Meader's record and, frankly, I thought it sounded more like Teddy than it did me. So, now \"he's\" annoyed.\" Kennedy told Benjamin Bradlee that \"parts of it were amusing.\" Other sources, such as Thomas C. Reeves' \"A Question of Character: A Life of John F. Kennedy\", state that President Kennedy was upset with the parodies, and that First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy was furious, even demanding that the President keep Meader off radio and television.\n\nStill in his 20s, Meader was suddenly famous, rich, and in constant demand. He was profiled in \"Time\" and \"Life\" magazines, appeared on network television variety shows such as \"The Ed Sullivan Show,\" \"The Jack Paar Program\", \"The Andy Williams Show\" and \"Hootenanny\". Though a series of tour dates in early 1963 were notably unsuccessful (\"Billboard \" reported that he \"bombed\" in Pittsburgh, and only 742 people showed up in Philadelphia), he still played to packed houses in Las Vegas. \"The First Family\" won the Grammy Award for Album of the Year in 1963. That March, Meader recorded a follow-up album, \"The First Family Volume Two\", a combination of spoken comedy and songs performed by actors and comedians portraying members of the President's family and White House staff. The sequel was released in the spring of 1963, and while not as successful as the first volume, still sold hundreds of thousands of copies.\n\nIn July 1963, Meader left Cadence Records and Booker/Dowd to sign with MGM Records. Meader planned to record general satire and abandon his JFK impersonations.\n\nIn November 1963, Meader was busy recording a new comedy record, written by a different group of writers and not involving his Kennedy impersonation. On November 22, 1963, President Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, and Kennedy's death effectively ended Meader's career. Copies of \"The First Family\" were pulled from stores and a JFK-related Christmas single by Meader that had been released by MGM's Verve Records shortly before the assassination was quickly withdrawn. Appearances that were already booked were canceled, including one for the Grammy Awards ceremony. An episode of \"The Joey Bishop Show\" was also pulled, which Meader filmed one week before the assassination. The episode was never aired and was reportedly destroyed.\n\nMeader reportedly first learned of President Kennedy's assassination after hailing a taxicab in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The driver, recognizing his celebrity passenger, asked \"Did you hear about Kennedy?\" Meader thought the driver was telling a joke and responded \"No, how does it go?\" The driver then informed him of the sad news, and from the taxi's radio Meader heard the breaking news bulletins for the first time.\n\nAccording to several sources, standup comedian Lenny Bruce went on with his November 22 nightclub show as scheduled. Just hours after Kennedy's death, Bruce walked onstage, stood silently for several moments, then said sadly, \"Boy, is Vaughn Meader fucked.\" The joke proved true. Meader discovered that he was so completely typecast as a Kennedy impersonator that he could not find anyone willing to hire him for any of his other talents.\n\nHis non-Kennedy album for Verve Records, \"Have Some Nuts!!!\", came out to minimal attention in early 1964. A similar follow-up \"If The Shoe Fits...\" was released in late 1964, and included sketches on almost everything except the Kennedys, but sales were meager at best. Meader's income evaporated, new-found friends and associates stopped calling, and by 1965 Meader was virtually broke. Sinking into depression, he became addicted to alcohol and drugs, and was forced to take whatever work he could find.\n\nHe reunited with Earle Doud in 1971 for an album called \"The Second Coming\", a comedic look at what life would be like for Jesus if he had returned to earth around the time of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\", but airplay and sales were virtually nonexistent.\n\nMeader tried several times to revive his career, but achieved only moderate success, and then mostly outside of show business. He appeared briefly in the 1975 movie \"Linda Lovelace for President\" and has a very brief cameo on the 1981 Rich Little comedy album, \"The First Family Rides Again\", which both parodied Ronald Reagan and paid homage to the original \"The First Family\" album. Both the Kennedy and Reagan \"First Family\" albums were produced by Earle Doud.\n\nEventually, Meader resumed a career in bluegrass and country music, becoming a popular local performer in his native Maine. During the mid-1970s, he performed in Louisville, Kentucky, mostly at a small tavern known as the Storefront Congregation, under the name \"Abbott Meader and the Honky-Tonk Angels.\" Meader sang and played piano.\n\nMeader was married four times. He married his fourth wife, Sheila Colbath, in 1984. They remained married until his death.\n\nOn October 29, 2004, Meader died of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at the age of 68.\n\nAfter Meader's death, he has been credited for having broken new ground in the area of political humor, particularly in impersonations of the President of the United States.\n\nIn July 2006, nearly two years after Meader's death, the independent documentary \"First Impersonator\" premiered at the Maine International Film Festival in Waterville, Maine, Meader's birth town. The film chronicled Meader's life and death, his rise to fame and equally famous fall, and his influence on today's political impersonators.\n\n"}
{"id": "254469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254469", "title": "Walter de la Mare", "text": "Walter de la Mare\n\nWalter John de la Mare (; 25 April 1873 – 22 June 1956) was a British poet, short story writer and novelist. He is probably best remembered for his works for children, for his poem \"The Listeners\", and for a highly acclaimed selection of subtle psychological horror stories, amongst them \"Seaton's Aunt\" and \"All Hallows\".\n\nIn 1921, his novel \"Memoirs of a Midget\" won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for fiction, and his post-war \"Collected Stories for Children\" won the 1947 Carnegie Medal for British children's books.\n\nDe la Mare was born in Kent at 83 Maryon Road, Charlton (now part of the Royal Borough of Greenwich), partly descended from a family of French Huguenots, and was educated at St Paul's Cathedral School. He was born to James Edward de la Mare, a principal at the Bank of England, and Lucy Sophia Browning (James's second wife), daughter of Scottish naval surgeon and author Dr Colin Arrott Browning. The suggestion that Lucy was related to poet Robert Browning has been found to be incorrect. He had two brothers, Francis Arthur Edward and James Herbert, and four sisters Florence Mary, Constance Eliza, Ethel (who died in infancy), and Ada Mary. De la Mare preferred to be known as 'Jack' by his family and friends as he disliked the name Walter.\n\nHe worked from 1890 in the statistics department of the London office of Standard Oil for eighteen years to support his family, but nevertheless found time to write. In 1908, through the efforts of Sir Henry Newbolt he received a Civil List pension which enabled him to concentrate on writing.\n\nIn 1892, de la Mare joined the Esperanza Amateur Dramatics Club, where he met and fell in love with Elfrida Ingpen, the leading lady, who was ten years older than he. They were married on 4 August 1899, and they went on to have four children: Richard Herbert Ingpen, Colin, Florence and Lucy Elfrida de la Mare. The new family lived in Beckenham and Anerley from 1899 till 1924. It was in Beckenham at Mackenzie Road that the children were born; his first book of poems, \"Songs of Childhood\", published (under the name Walter Ramal); and \"Henry Brocken\" written. Their house at Anerley in south London was the scene of many parties, notable for imaginative games of charades.\n\nIn 1940, his wife Elfrida was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and spent the rest of her life as an invalid, eventually dying in 1943. From 1940 until his death, de la Mare lived in South End House, Montpelier Row, Twickenham, the same street on which Alfred, Lord Tennyson had lived a century earlier. For the \"Collected Stories for Children\" (Faber & Faber, 1947), he won the annual Carnegie Medal from the Library Association, recognising the year's best children's book by a British subject. It was the first collection to win the award.\n\nDe la Mare suffered from a coronary thrombosis in 1947 and died of another in 1956. He spent his final year mostly bed-ridden, being cared for by a nurse whom he loved but never had a physical relationship with. His ashes are buried in the crypt of St Paul's Cathedral, where he had once been a choirboy.\n\nDe la Mare described two distinct \"types\" of imagination – although \"aspects\" might be a better term: the childlike and the boylike. It was at the border between the two that Shakespeare, Dante, and the rest of the great poets lay.\n\nDe la Mare claimed that all children fall into the category of having a childlike imagination at first, which is usually replaced at some point in their lives. He explained in the lecture \"Rupert Brooke and the Intellectual Imagination\" that children \"are not bound in by their groping senses. Facts to them are the liveliest of chameleons. ... They are contemplatives, solitaries, fakirs, who sink again and again out of the noise and fever of existence and into a waking vision.\" His biographer Doris Ross McCrosson summarises this passage, \"Children are, in short, visionaries.\" This visionary view of life can be seen as either vital creativity and ingenuity, or fatal disconnection from reality (or, in a limited sense, both).\n\nThe increasing intrusions of the external world upon the mind, however, frighten the childlike imagination, which \"retires like a shocked snail into its shell\". From then onward the boyish imagination flourishes, the \"intellectual, analytical type\".\n\nBy adulthood (de la Mare proposed), the childlike imagination has either retreated for ever or grown bold enough to face the real world. Thus emerge the two extremes of the spectrum of adult minds: the mind moulded by the boylike is \"logical\" and \"deductive\". That shaped by the childlike becomes \"intuitive, inductive\". For de la Mare, \"The one knows that beauty is truth, the other reveals that truth is beauty.\" Yet another way he puts it is that the visionary's source of poetry is within, while the intellectual's sources are without – external – in \"action, knowledge of things, and experience\" (McCrosson's terms). De la Mare hastens to add that this does not make the intellectual's poetry any less good, but it is clear where his own preference lies.\n\n\"Come Hither\" was an anthology, edited by de la Mare, mostly of poetry with some prose. It has a frame story, and can be read on several levels. It was first published in 1923, and was a success; further editions followed. Alongside children's literature it includes a selection of the leading Georgian poets (from de la Mare's perspective).\n\nWalter de la Mare was also a notable writer of ghost stories. His collections \"Eight Tales\", \"The Riddle and Other Stories\", \"The Connoisseur and Other Stories\", \"On the Edge\" and \"The Wind Blows Over\" contain several ghost stories each.\n\nDe la Mare's supernatural horror writings were a favourite of H. P. Lovecraft, who in his classic study \"Supernatural Horror in Literature\" remarked that \"he is able to put into his occasional fear-studies a keen potency which only a rare master can achieve\", especially praising de la Mare's novel \"The Return\" and his stories \"Seaton's Aunt\", \"The Tree\", \"Out of the Deep\", \"Mr Kempe\", \"A Recluse\" and \"All Hallows\". Gary William Crawford has described de la Mare's supernatural fiction for adults as being \"among the finest to appear in the first half of this century\", whilst noting the disparity between the high quality and low quantity of de la Mare's mature horror stories. Other notable de la Mare ghost stories are \"A:B:O\", \"Crewe\", \"The Green Room\", \"Winter\", \"The House\", \"Strangers & Pilgrims\" and \"An Anniversary\".\n\nSeveral later writers of supernatural fiction, including Robert Aickman, Ramsey Campbell, David A. McIntee and Reggie Oliver, have cited de la Mare's ghost stories as highly inspirational. The horror scholar S. T. Joshi has said that de la Mare's supernatural fiction \"should always have an audience that will shudder apprehensively at its horror and be moved to somber reflection by its pensive philosophy\".\n\nFor children, de la Mare wrote the fairy tale \"The Three Mulla Mulgars\" (1910, AKA \"The Three Royal Monkeys\"), praised by the literary historian Julia Briggs as a \"neglected masterpiece\" and by the critic Brian Stableford as a \"classic animal fantasy\". Richard Adams said it was his favorite novel.\n\nWriter Joan Aiken cited some of his short stories, such as \"The Almond Tree\" and \"Sambo and the Snow Mountains\", for their sometimes unexplained quality, which she also employed in her own work.\n\nDe la Mare also wrote two supernatural novels, \"Henry Brocken\" (1904) and \"The Return\" (1910). His poem \"The Ghost Chase\" appeared in \"Punch\" magazine for 26 March 1941 and was illustrated by Rowland Emett.\n\n\n\nFive poems were published by Faber and Faber as the Ariel Poems.\n\n\n\n\nDe la Mare's play \"Crossings\" has an important role in Robertson Davies' novel \"The Manticore\". In 1944, when the protagonist David Staunton is sixteen, de la Mare's play is produced by the pupils of his sister's school in Toronto, Canada. Staunton falls deeply in love with the girl playing the main role – a first love which would have a profound effect on the rest of his life.\n\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "4901255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4901255", "title": "William Craven, 4th Earl of Craven", "text": "William Craven, 4th Earl of Craven\n\nWilliam George Robert Craven, 4th Earl of Craven OBE (16 December 1868 – 10 July 1921), styled Viscount Uffington from 1868 to 1883, was a British peer and Liberal politician.\n\nCraven was the eldest son of the George Craven, 3rd Earl of Craven (1841–1883), who served as Lord Lieutenant of Berkshire between 1881 and 1883, and his wife Hon. Evelyn Laura Barrington (1848–1924).\n\nHis father was the second son of nine children born to William Craven, 2nd Earl of Craven and Lady Emily Mary Grimston, herself the daughter of James Grimston, 1st Earl of Verulam. His grandfather also served as Lord Lieutenant of Warwickshire from 1853 to 1856. His paternal aunt, Lady Elizabeth Craven, married Arthur Egerton, 3rd Earl of Wilton, and another, Lady Blanche Craven, married George Coventry, 9th Earl of Coventry, and another, Lady Beatrix Jane Craven, married George Cadogan, 5th Earl Cadogan. His mother was the second daughter of George Barrington, 7th Viscount Barrington, who was a Member of Parliament for Eye and served as Captain of the Honourable Corps of Gentlemen-at-Arms and Captain of the Yeomen of the Guard under Queen Victoria in the 1880s. His maternal aunt, Constance Mary Barrington, was married to Lawrence Palk, 2nd Baron Haldon.\n\nIn 1883, at the age of fourteen, he succeeded his father as fourth Earl of Craven, the 4th Viscount Uffington, and the 10th Baron Craven of Hampsted Marshall. He was educated between 1882 and 1884 at Eton College in Eton near Windsor, England. He later took his seat on the Liberal benches in the House of Lords, and from 1890 and 1892, he served as aide-de-camp to the Viceroy of Ireland.\n\nIn 1911, he was appointed Captain of the Yeomen of the Guard in the Liberal administration of Prime Minister H. H. Asquith, a post he held until 1915. He was awarded the Order of the Crown of Belgium, the Chevalier, Ordre national de la Légion d'honneur, and in 1919, he was appointed Officer, Order of the British Empire.\n\nFrom 1913 until his death in 1921, he was also Lord Lieutenant of Warwickshire.\n\nOn 18 April 1893, Lord Craven, then twenty-four years old, married sixteen year-old Cornelia Martin (1877–1961) at Grace Church, New York City. Cornelia, who was the only daughter of Bradley Martin, a wealthy American banker, and his wife, Cornelia Sherman Martin, met Craven while her family was renting a Scottish highland estate, Balmacaan. The marriage brought him property in Mayfair and paid for the renovation of Coombe Abbey, his family estate in Warwickshire which got a new roof, structural repairs, and its first electric lights. Together, they were the parents of:\n\n\nIn 1921, whilst racing at Cowes Week, and although a strong swimmer, Lord Craven fell overboard and drowned at age 52. His body was washed ashore on 12 July 1921. He was succeeded in his titles by his son, William, Viscount Uffington upon his death in 1921.\n\nAfter his death, his widow sold Coombe Abbey to a builder named John Grey in 1923, and died in 1961.\n\n"}
