{"id": "24238010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24238010", "title": "Any-angle path planning", "text": "Any-angle path planning\n\nAny-angle path planning algorithms are a subset of pathfinding algorithms that search for a path between two points in space and allow the turns in the path to have any angle. The result is a path that goes directly toward the goal and has relatively few turns. Other pathfinding algorithms such as A* constrain the paths to a grid, which produces jagged, indirect paths. Any-angle algorithms are able to find optimal or near-optimal paths by incorporating the any-angle search into the algorithm itself. Algorithms such as A* Post Smoothing that smooth a path found by a grid constrained algorithm are unable to reliably find optimal paths since they cannot change what side of a blocked cell is traversed.\n\nAny-angle path planning algorithms are necessary in order to quickly find an optimal path. For a world represented by a grid of blocked and unblocked cells, the brute-force way to find an any-angle path is to search the corresponding visibility graph. This is problematic since the number of edges in a graph with formula_1 vertices is formula_2. Searching the discrete grid graph can be done quickly since the number of edges grows linearly with the number of vertices, but the paths are not optimal since the angle of the turns are constrained to 45° or 90°, which will add turns and increase the overall length of the path. Smoothing a grid-constrained path after does not fix this problem since the algorithm that found that path did not look at all possible paths. Any-angle path planning algorithms find shorter paths than the grid-constrained algorithms while taking roughly same amount of time to compute.\n\nSo far, four main any-angle path planning algorithms that are based on the heuristic search algorithm A* have been developed, all of which propagate information along grid edges:\n\n\n\n\nBesides, for search in high-dimensional search spaces, such as when the configuration space of the system involves many degrees of freedom that need to be considered (see Motion planning), and/or momentum needs to be considered (which could effectively double the number of dimensions of the search space; this larger space including momentum is known as the phase space), variants of the rapidly-exploring random tree (RRT) have been developed that (almost surely) converge to the optimal path by increasingly finding shorter and shorter paths:\n\n\nHybrid A* was created by Stanford Racing as part of the navigation system for Junior, their entry to the DARPA Urban Challenge. Hybrid A* is continuous and tracks the vehicle's position and orientation. This ensures that the path generated can be followed by the vehicle, unlike the paths generated by A* for Field D*, which both produce sharp turns, and do not consider the geometry or movement constraints of the vehicle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26917289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26917289", "title": "Armande de La Tour d'Auvergne", "text": "Armande de La Tour d'Auvergne\n\nArmande de La Tour d'Auvergne (28 August 1697 – 13 April 1717) was a French noblewoman and Princess of Epinoy by marriage. She died without issue.\n\nArmande was the eldest of seven children born to Emmanuel Théodose de La Tour d'Auvergne - sovereign Duke of Bouillon - and his first wife Marie Armande Victoire de La Trémouille. Her mother died in 1717 and her father married three more times and had three more children. \n\nShe married Louis de Melun, Duke of Joyeuse and Prince of Epinoy on 23 February 1716. His parents were Louis de Melun and Élisabeth Thérèse de Lorraine.\n\nArmande died in 1717 a month after her mother. Her husband was later the secret spouse of Marie Anne de Bourbon (1697–1741), daughter of Monsieur le Duc and Madame la Duchesse, daughter of Madame de Montespan. Louis de Melun later disappeared in 1724 under mysterious circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "5389390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5389390", "title": "Autonomic networking", "text": "Autonomic networking\n\nAutonomic Networking follows the concept of Autonomic Computing, an initiative started by IBM in 2001. Its ultimate aim is to create self-managing networks to overcome the rapidly growing complexity of the Internet and other networks and to enable their further growth, far beyond the size of today.\n\nThe ever-growing management complexity of the Internet caused by its rapid growth is seen by some experts as a major problem that limits its usability in the future.\n\nWhat's more, increasingly popular smartphones, PDAs, networked audio and video equipment, and game consoles need to be interconnected. Pervasive Computing not only adds features, but also burdens existing networking infrastructure with more and more tasks that sooner or later will not be manageable by human intervention alone.\n\nAnother important aspect is the price of manually controlling huge numbers of vitally important devices of current network infrastructures.\n\nThe autonomic nervous system (ANS) is the part of the nervous system of the higher life forms that is not consciously controlled. It regulates bodily functions and the activity of specific organs. As proposed by IBM, future communication systems might be designed in a similar way to the ANS. \n\nAs autonomics conceptually derives from biological entities such as the human autonomic nervous system, each of the areas can be metaphorically related to functional and structural aspects of a living being. In the human body, the autonomic system facilitates and regulates a variety of functions including respiration, blood pressure and circulation, and emotive response. The autonomic nervous system is the interconnecting fabric that supports feedback loops between internal states and various sources by which internal and external conditions are monitored.\n\nAutognostics includes a range of self-discovery, awareness, and analysis capabilities that provide the autonomic system with a view on high-level state. In metaphor, this represents the perceptual sub-systems that gather, analyze, and report on internal and external states and conditions – for example, this might be viewed as the eyes, visual cortex and perceptual organs of the system. Autognostics, or literally \"self-knowledge\", provides the autonomic system with a basis for response and validation.\n\nA rich autognostic capability may include many different \"perceptual senses\". For example, the human body gathers information via the usual five senses, the so-called sixth sense of proprioception (sense of body position and orientation), and through emotive states that represent the gross wellness of the body. As conditions and states change, they are detected by the sensory monitors and provide the basis for adaptation of related systems. Implicit in such a system are imbedded models of both internal and external environments such that relative value can be assigned to any perceived state - perceived physical threat (e.g. a snake) can result in rapid shallow breathing related to fight-flight response, a phylogenetically effective model of interaction with recognizable threats.\n\nIn the case of autonomic networking, the state of the network may be defined by inputs from:\n\nMost of these sources represent relatively raw and unprocessed views that have limited relevance. Post-processing and various forms of analysis must be applied to generate meaningful measurements and assessments against which current state can be derived.\n\nThe autognostic system interoperates with:\n\nConfiguration management is responsible for the interaction with network elements and interfaces. It includes an accounting capability with historical perspective that provides for the tracking of configurations over time, with respect to various circumstances. In the biological metaphor, these are the hands and, to some degree, the memory of the autonomic system.\n\nOn a network, remediation and provisioning are applied via configuration setting of specific devices. Implementation affecting access and selective performance with respect to role and relationship are also applied. Almost all the \"actions\" that are currently taken by human engineers fall under this area. With only a few exceptions, interfaces are set by hand, or by extension of the hand, through automated scripts.\n\nImplicit in the configuration process is the maintenance of a dynamic population of devices under management, a historical record of changes and the directives which invoked change. Typical to many accounting functions, configuration management should be capable of operating on devices and then rolling back changes to recover previous configurations. Where change may lead to unrecoverable states, the sub-system should be able to qualify the consequences of changes prior to issuing them.\n\nAs directives for change must originate from other sub-systems, the shared language for such directives must be abstracted from the details of the devices involved. The configuration management sub-system must be able to translate unambiguously between directives and hard actions or to be able to signal the need for further detail on a directive. An inferential capacity may be appropriate to support sufficient flexibility (i.e. configuration never takes place because there is no unique one-to-one mapping between directive and configuration settings). Where standards are not sufficient, a learning capacity may also be required to acquire new knowledge of devices and their configuration.\n\nConfiguration management interoperates with all of the other sub-systems including:\n\nPolicy management includes policy specification, deployment, reasoning over policies, updating and maintaining policies, and enforcement. Policy-based management is required for:\n\nIt provides the models of environment and behavior that represent effective interaction according to specific goals. In the human nervous system metaphor, these models are implicit in the evolutionary \"design\" of biological entities and specific to the goals of survival and procreation. Definition of what constitutes a policy is necessary to consider what is involved in managing it. A relatively flexible and abstract framework of values, relationships, roles, interactions, resources, and other components of the network environment is required. This sub-system extends far beyond the physical network to the applications in use and the processes and end-users that employ the network to achieve specific goals. It must express the relative values of various resources, outcomes, and processes and include a basis for assessing states and conditions.\n\nUnless embodied in some system outside the autonomic network or implicit to the specific policy implementation, the framework must also accommodate the definition of process, objectives and goals. Business process definitions and descriptions are then an integral part of the policy implementation. Further, as policy management represents the ultimate basis for the operation of the autonomic system, it must be able to report on its operation with respect to the details of its implementation.\n\nThe policy management sub-system interoperates (at least) indirectly with all other sub-systems but primarily interacts with:\n\nAutodefense represents a dynamic and adaptive mechanism that responds to malicious and intentional attacks on the network infrastructure, or use of the network infrastructure to attack IT resources. As defensive measures tend to impede the operation of IT, it is optimally capable of balancing performance objectives with typically over-riding threat management actions. In the biological metaphor, this sub-system offers mechanisms comparable to the immune system.\n\nThis sub-system must proactively assess network and application infrastructure for risks, detect and identify threats, and define effective both proactive and reactive defensive responses. It has the role of the warrior and the security guard insofar as it has roles for both maintenance and corrective activities. Its relationship with security is close but not identical – security is more concerned with appropriately defined and implemented access and authorization controls to maintain legitimate roles and process. Autodefense deals with forces and processes, typically malicious, outside the normal operation of the system that offer some risk to successful execution.\n\nAutodefense requires high-level and detailed knowledge of the entire network as well as imbedded models of risk that allow it to analyze dynamically the current status. Corrections to decrease risk must be considered in balance with performance objectives and value of process goals – an overzealous defensive response can immobilize the system (like the immune system inappropriately invoking an allergic reaction). The detection of network or application behaviors that signal possible attack or abuse is followed by the generation of an appropriate response – for example, ports might be temporarily closed or packets with a specific source or destination might be filtered out. Further assessment generates subsequent changes either relaxing the defensive measures or strengthening them.\n\nAutodefense interoperates closely with:\n\nIt also may receive definition of relative value of various resources and processes from policy management in order to develop responses consistent with policy.\n\nSecurity provides the structure that defines and enforces the relationships between roles, content, and resources, particularly with respect to access. It includes the framework for definitions as well as the means to implement them. In metaphor, security parallels the complex mechanisms underlying social interactions, defining friends, foes, mates and allies and offering access to limited resources on the basis of assessed benefit.\n\nSeveral key means are employed by security – they include the well-known 3 As of authentication, authorization, and access (control). The basis for applying these means requires the definition of roles and their relationships to resources, processes and each other. High-level concepts like privacy, anonymity and verification are likely imbedded in the form of the role definitions and derive from policy. Successful security reliably supports and enforces roles and relationships.\n\nAutodefense has a close association with security – maintaining the assigned roles in balance with performance exposes the system to potential violations in security. In those cases, the system must compensate by making changes that may sacrifice balance on a temporary basis and indeed may violate the operational terms of security itself. Typically the two are viewed as inextricably intertwined – effective security somewhat hopefully negating any need for a defensive response. Security’s revised role is to mediate between the competing demands from policy for maximized performance and minimized risk with auto defense recovering the balance when inevitable risk translates to threat. Federation represents one of the key challenges to be solved by effective security.\n\nThe security sub-system interoperates directly with:\n\nThe connection fabric supports the interaction with all the elements and sub-systems of the autonomic system. It may be composed of a variety of means and mechanisms, or may be a single central framework. The biological equivalent is the central nervous system itself – although referred to as the autonomic system, it actually is only the communication conduit between the human body’s faculties.\n\nConsequently, it is currently under research by many research projects, how principles and paradigms of mother nature might be applied to networking.\n\nInstead of a layering approach, autonomic networking targets a more flexible structure termed compartmentalization.\n\nThe goal is to produce an architectural design that enables flexible, dynamic, and fully autonomic formation of large-scale networks in which the functionalities of each constituent network node are also composed in an autonomic fashion\n\nFunctions should be divided into atomic units to allow for maximal re-composition freedom.\n\nA fundamental concept of Control theory, the closed control loop, is among the fundamental principles of autonomic networking. A closed control loop maintains the properties of the controlled system within desired bounds by constantly monitoring target parameters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50957134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50957134", "title": "Biosatellite 2", "text": "Biosatellite 2\n\nBiosatellite 2, also known as abbreviated as Biosat 2 and as Biosatellite B, was a second artificial satellite unmanned U.S. belonging to Biosatellite program for biological research. It was released on September 7, 1967 by a rocket Delta G from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, USA.\n\nBiosatellite 2 carried 13 Biological experiments involving insects, frog eggs, plants and microorganisms. The capsule returned ahead of time because of the tropical storm threat in the recovery area and communication problems between the capsule and ground stations. The main objective of the mission was to determine if the level of radiation sensitivity of living organisms in space is greater, or less than on land, for which disposed of a radiation source in front of the capsule.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77357", "title": "Charles II of Navarre", "text": "Charles II of Navarre\n\nCharles II (10 October 1332 – 1 January 1387), called Charles the Bad, was King of Navarre 1349–1387 and Count of Évreux 1343–1387.\n\nBesides the Pyrenean Kingdom of Navarre, he had extensive lands in Normandy, inherited from his father, Count Philip of Évreux, and his mother, Queen Joan II of Navarre, who had received them as compensation for resigning her claims to France, Champagne, and Brie in 1328. Thus, in Northern France, Charles possessed Évreux, Mortain, parts of Vexin, and a portion of Cotentin. He was a major player at a critical juncture in the Hundred Years' War between France and England, repeatedly switching sides in order to further his own agenda. His horrific death by burning was widely considered God's justice upon him.\n\nCharles was born in Évreux. Since his father was first cousin to King Philip VI of France, and his mother, Joan II of Navarre, was the only child of King Louis X, Charles of Navarre was 'born of the \"fleur de lys\" on both sides', as he liked to point out, but he succeeded to a shrunken inheritance as far as his French lands were concerned. Charles was raised in France during childhood and up to the moment he was declared king at 17, so he probably had no command of the Romance language of Navarre at the moment of his coronation.\n\nIn October 1349, he assumed the crown of Navarre. In order to take his coronation oath and be anointed, Charles II visited his kingdom in summer 1350. For the first time, the oath was taken in a language other than Latin or Occitan as it was customary, i.e. Navarro-Aragonese. Apart from short visits paid the first 12 years of his reign, he spent his time almost entirely in France; he regarded Navarre principally as a source of manpower with which to advance his designs to become a major power in France. He hoped for a long time for recognition of his claim to the crown of France (as the heir-general of Philip IV through his mother, and a Capetian through his father). However, he was unable to wrest the throne from his Valois cousins, who were senior to him by agnatic primogeniture.\n\nCharles II served as Royal Lieutenant in Languedoc in 1351 and commanded the army which captured Port-Sainte-Marie on the Garonne in 1352. The same year he married Joan of Valois, the daughter of King John II of France. He soon became jealous of the Constable of France, Charles de La Cerda, who was to be a beneficiary of the fiefdoms of Champagne, Brie, and Angoulême. Charles of Navarre felt he was entitled to these territories as they had belonged to his mother, the Queen of Navarre, but they had been taken from her by the French kings for a paltry sum in compensation.\n\nAfter publicly quarrelling with Charles de la Cerda in Paris at Christmas 1353, Charles arranged the assassination of the Constable, which took place at the village of l'Aigle (8 January 1354), his brother Philip, Count of Longueville leading the murderers. Charles made no secret of his role in the murder, and within a few days was intriguing with the English for military support against his father-in-law King John II, whose favourite the Constable had been. John II was preparing to attack his son-in-law's territories, but Charles's overtures of alliance to King Edward III of England led John instead to make peace with the King of Navarre by the Treaty of Mantes of 22 February 1354, by which Charles enlarged his possessions and was outwardly reconciled with John II. The English, who had been preparing to invade France for a joint campaign with Charles against the French, felt they had been double-crossed: not for the last time, Charles had used the threat of an English alliance to wrest concessions out of the French king.\nRelations between Charles and John II deteriorated afresh and John invaded Charles's territories in Normandy in late 1354 while Charles intrigued with Edward III's emissary, Henry of Grosmont, 1st Duke of Lancaster at the fruitless peace negotiations between England and France held at Avignon in the winter of 1354–55. Once again Charles changed sides: the threat of a renewed English invasion forced John II to make a new agreement of reconciliation with him, sealed by the Treaty of Valognes on 10 September 1355.\n\nThis agreement, too, did not last. Charles befriended and was thought to be trying to influence the Dauphin, and was apparently involved in a botched coup d'état in December 1355 whose purpose appears to have been to replace John II with the Dauphin. John amended matters by making his son Duke of Normandy, but Charles of Navarre continued to advise the Dauphin how to govern that province.\n\nThere were also continued rumours of his plots against the king, and on 5 April 1356 John II and a group of supporters burst unannounced into the Dauphin's castle at Rouen, arrested Charles of Navarre and imprisoned him. Four of his principal supporters (two of whom had been among the assassins of Charles de la Cerda) were beheaded and their bodies suspended from chains. Charles was taken to Paris and then moved from prison to prison for greater security.\n\nCharles remained in prison after John II was defeated and captured by the English at the Battle of Poitiers. But many of his partisans were active in the Estates General which endeavoured to govern and reform France in the power-vacuum created by the King's imprisonment while much of the country degenerated into anarchy. They continually pressed the Dauphin to release him. Meanwhile his brother Philip of Navarre threw in his lot with the invading English army of the Duke of Lancaster and made war on the Dauphin's forces throughout Normandy. Eventually on 9 November 1357 Charles was sprung from his prison in the castle of Arleux by a band of 30 men from Amiens led by Jean de Picquigny. Greeted as a hero when he entered Amiens, he was invited to enter Paris by the Estates General, which he did with a large retinue and was 'received like a newly-crowned monarch'.\n\nHe addressed the populace on 30 November listing his grievances against those who had imprisoned him. Étienne Marcel led a 'demand for justice for the King of Navarre' which the Dauphin was unable to resist. Charles demanded an indemnity for all damage done to his territories while he had been imprisoned, free pardon for all his crimes and those of his supporters, and honourable burial for his associates executed by John II at Rouen. He also demanded the Dauphin's own Duchy of Normandy and the county of Champagne, which would have made him effectively ruler of northern France.\n\nThe Dauphin was virtually powerless, but he and Charles were still in negotiations when news reached them that Edward III and John II had reached a peace agreement at Windsor. Knowing this could only be to his disadvantage, Charles had all the prisons in Paris opened to create anarchy and left Paris to build up his strength in Normandy. In his absence the Dauphin tried to assemble a military force of his own, but Charles meanwhile gave his executed followers a solemn state funeral in Rouen Cathedral on 10 January 1358 and effectively declared civil war, leading a combined Anglo-Navarrese force against the Dauphin's garrisons.\n\nMeanwhile Paris was in the throes of revolution. On 22 February the Dauphin's chief military officers, the marshals Jean de Conflans and Robert de Clermont were murdered before his eyes by a mob led by Etienne Marcel, who made the Dauphin a virtual prisoner and invited Charles of Navarre to return to the city, which he did on 26 February with a large armed retinue. The Dauphin was forced to agree to many of Charles's territorial demands and to promise to finance for him a standing army of 1,000 men for his personal use. However illness prevented Charles from escorting the Dauphin to meetings demanded by the nobility at Senlis and Provins, and the Dauphin was thus able to escape his Parisian and Navarrese guardians and open a campaign from the east against Charles and against revolutionary Paris.\n\nEtienne Marcel implored Charles to intercede with the Dauphin but he achieved nothing and the land around Paris began to be plundered both by Charles's forces and by the Dauphin's. In the last days of May the peasant rebellion of the Jacquerie erupted to the north of Paris as a spontaneous expression of hatred for the nobility that had brought France so low. Etienne Marcel publicly declared Parisian support for the Jacquerie. Unable to get help from the Dauphin, the knights of northern France appealed to Charles of Navarre to lead them against the peasants.\n\nAlthough he was allied with the Parisians, Charles was no lover of the peasantry and felt Marcel had made a fatal mistake. He could not resist the chance to appear as a leader of the French aristocracy and led the suppression of the Jacquerie at the Battle of Mello, 10 June 1358 and the subsequent massacres of rebels. He then returned to Paris and made an open bid for power urging the populace to elect him as 'Captain of Paris'.\n\nThis move lost Charles the support of many of the nobles who had supported him against the Jacquerie, and they began to abandon him for the Dauphin while he recruited soldiers – mainly English mercenaries – for the 'defence' of Paris, though his men, picketed outside the city, raided and plundered far and wide. Realizing the Dauphin's forces were much stronger than his, Charles opened negotiations with the Dauphin, who made him substantial offers of cash and land if he could induce the Parisians to surrender. They, however, distrusted this deal between princes and refused the terms outright; Charles agreed to fight on as their captain but demanded that his troops be billetted in the city.\n\nBefore long there were anti-English riots in the city and Charles, with Etienne Marcel, was forced by the mob to lead them against the marauding garrisons to the north and west of the city – against his own men. He led them (no doubt deliberately) into an English ambush in the woods near the bridge of Saint-Cloud and about 600 Parisians were killed.\n\nAfter this debacle Charles stayed outside Paris at the Abbey of St Denis and left the city to its fate while the revolution burned itself out, Etienne Marcel was killed, and the Dauphin regained control of Paris. Meanwhile he opened negotiations with the English King, proposing that Edward III and he should divide France between themselves: if Edward would invade France and help him defeat the Dauphin, he would recognize Edward as King of France and do homage to him for the territories of Normandy, Picardy, Champagne and Brie. But the English king no longer trusted Charles and both he and the captive John II regarded him as an obstacle to peace. On 24 March 1359 Edward and John concluded a new treaty in London whereby John would be released back to France on payment of a huge ransom and would make over to Edward III large tracts of French territory – including all of Charles of Navarre's French lands. Unless Charles submitted and accept suitable (undefined) compensation elsewhere, the Kings of England and France would jointly make war on him. However the Estates General refused to accept the treaty, urging the Dauphin to continue the war. At this Edward III lost patience and decided to invade France himself. Charles of Navarre's military position in Northern France had deteriorated under attacks from the Dauphin's forces throughout the spring, and with the news of Edward's impending invasion Charles decided he must reach an accommodation with the Dauphin. After protracted haggling the two leaders met near Pontoise on 19 August 1359; on the second day Charles of Navarre publicly renounced all his demands for territory and money, saying he wanted nothing more than what he had at the beginning of hostilities and 'wanted nothing more than to do his duty to his country'. It is unclear whether he was actuated by patriotism in the face of an imminent English invasion, or had decided to bide his time until a more favourable juncture to renew his campaign. After the comparative failure of Edward's campaign in the winter of 1359–60 (the Dauphin did not offer battle and pursued a 'scorched earth' policy with the populace seeking shelter in the walled towns while the English endured terrible weather) a final peace treaty was agreed between Edward III and John II at Brétigny, while John II concluded a separate peace with Charles of Navarre at Calais. Charles was forgiven his crimes against France and restored to all his rights and properties; 300 of his followers received a royal pardon. In return he renewed his homage to the French crown and promised to help clear the French provinces of the marauding companies of Anglo-Navarrese mercenaries, many of which he was responsible for releasing in the first place.\n\nIn 1361, after the premature death of his second cousin, Philip I, Duke of Burgundy, Charles claimed the Duchy of Burgundy by primogeniture. He was the grandson of Margaret of Burgundy, eldest daughter of Robert II, Duke of Burgundy (d. 1306). However, the duchy was taken by King John II, who was son of Joan of Burgundy, second daughter of Duke Robert II, who claimed it in proximity of blood, and made provision that after his death it would pass to his favourite son Philip the Bold.\n\nTo have become Duke of Burgundy would have given Charles the position at the centre of French politics that he had always craved, and the abrupt dismissal of his claim provoked fresh bitterness. After the failure of an attempt to win the Pope to his claim, Charles returned to his kingdom of Navarre in November 1361. He was soon plotting afresh to become a power in France. A planned rising of his supporters in Normandy in May 1362 was an abject failure, but in 1363 he evolved an ambitious plan to form two armies in 1364, one of which would go by sea to Normandy and the other, under his brother Louis, would join forces with the Gascons operating with the Great Company in Central France and invade Burgundy, thus threatening the French King from both sides of his realm. In January 1364 Charles met Edward, the Black Prince at Agen in order to negotiate the passage of his troops through the English-held duchy of Aquitaine, to which the Prince agreed perhaps because of his friendship with Charles's new military adviser Jean III de Grailly, captal de Buch, who had been betrothed to Charles sister and was to lead his army to Normandy. In March 1364 the Captal marched towards Normandy to secure Charles's domains.\n\nJohn II of France had returned to London to negotiate with Edward III, and the defence of France was once more in the hands of the Dauphin. There was already a royal army in Normandy besieging the town of Rolleboise, nominally commanded by the Count of Auxerre but actually generalled by Bertrand du Guesclin. Charles's designs were well known in advance and in early April 1364 this force seized many of Charles's remaining strongholds before the Captal de Buch could reach Normandy. When he arrived he started concentrating his forces around Évreux, which still held out for Charles. He then led his army against the royal forces to the east. On 16 May 1364 he was defeated by du Guesclin at the Battle of Cocherel. John II had died in England in April, and news of the victory of Cocherel reached the Dauphin on 18 May at Rheims, where on the following day he was crowned Charles V of France. He immediately confirmed his brother Philip as Duke of Burgundy.\n\nUndeterred by this resounding defeat, Charles of Navarre persisted in his grand design. In August 1364 his men began a fight back in Normandy while a small Navarrese army under Rodrigo de Uriz sailed from Bayonne to Cherbourg. Meanwhile Charles's brother Louis of Navarre led an army augmented by contingents pledged by the captains of the Great Company and the freebooter Seguin de Badefol through the Black Prince's territories and across France, evading the French royal forces sent to intercept him and arrived in Normandy on 23 September. Hearing of the collapse of the civil war in Brittany after the Battle of Auray (29 September), Louis abandoned his design to invade Burgundy and instead set about reconquering the Cotentin for Charles. Meanwhile Séguin de Badefol and his fellow-captains captured the town of Anse on the Burgundian border, but only to use it as a centre for raiding and plundering far and wide. They did Charles of Navarre's cause no discernible good, and Pope Urban V excommunicated Séguin. Although Charles offered Bernard-Aiz V, Lord of Albret huge sums to take over the command of his forces around Burgundy, he finally realized he could not prevail against the King of France and must come to an accommodation with him. In May 1365, in Pamplona, he agreed to a treaty by which there was to be a general amnesty for his supporters, the remains of Navarrese executed and displayed for treason were to be returned to their families, prisoners would be mutually released without ransom. Charles was allowed to keep his conquests of 1364, except for the citadel of Meulan, which was to be razed to the ground. In compensation Charles received Montpellier in Bas-Languedoc. His claim to Burgundy was to be referred to the arbitration of the Pope. The Pope never in fact pronounced on the matter. It was an ignominious end to Charles's 15 years of struggle to create a major territory for himself and his line in France. Henceforth he resided mainly in his kingdom.\n\nAt the end of 1365 Séguin de Badefol arrived in Navarre to claim the considerable sums Charles had pledged to pay him for his services in Burgundy, even though he had achieved nothing of substance. Charles was not pleased to see him, received him in private and poisoned him with a crystallised pear.\n\nThe cessation of war in France left vast numbers of French, English, Gascon and Navarrese soldiers and freebooters in search of mercenary employment, and many of these soon became involved in the wars of Castille and Aragon, both of which bordered Navarre. Charles typically tried to exploit the situation by making agreements with both sides that would enlarge his territory while leaving Navarre itself relatively untouched. Officially he was ally of Peter of Castile, but at the end of 1365 he concluded a secret agreement with Peter IV of Aragon to allow the marauding army led by Bertrand du Guesclin and Hugh Calveley invade Castile through southern Navarre in order to depose Pedro I and supplant him with his half-brother Henry of Trastámara. He then reneged on his agreements to both sides and attempted to hold the Navarrese borders intact, but was unable to do so and instead paid the invaders a large sum to keep their plundering to a minimum.\n\nAfter Henry of Trastámara successfully seized the throne of Castile, Pedro I fled to the court of the Black Prince in Aquitaine, who began to plot his restoration by sending an army across the Pyrenees. In July 1366 Charles himself came to Bordeaux to consult with Pedro I and the Prince and agreed to keep the mountain passes of Navarre open for the passage of the army, for which he would be rewarded with the Castilian provinces of Guipúzcoa and Álava as well as additional fortresses and a large cash payment. Then in December he met Henry of Trastámara on the Navarrese border and promised instead to hold the passes closed, in return for the border town of Logroño and more cash. Hearing of this the Black Prince ordered Hugh Calveley to invade Navarre from northern Castile and enforce the original agreement. Charles at once capitulated, claiming he had never been sincere in his dealings with Henry, and opened the passes to the Prince's army. Charles accompanied them on their journey but, not wanting to take part in the campaign personally, got Olivier de Mauny to stage an ambush in which Charles was 'captured' and held until the reconquest of Castile was over. The ruse was so transparent it made Charles a laughing-stock in Western Europe.\n\nWith the resumption of war between France and England in 1369 Charles saw fresh opportunities to increase his status in France. He left Navarre and met John V, Duke of Brittany in Nantes, where they agreed to come to each other's aid if either was attacked by France. Basing himself in Cherbourg, the principal town in what remained of his territories in Northern Normandy, he then sent ambassadors to Charles V of France and Edward III of England. He offered to aid the French King if he would restore his former territories in Normandy, recognize his claim to Burgundy and bestow the promised lordship of Montpellier. To the English King he offered an alliance against France whereby Edward III could use his territories in Normandy as a base to attack the French. As on previous occasions, Charles did not really want an English army on his lands; he wanted the threat of one to put pressure on Charles V. But Charles V refused his demands outright. On the strength of Charles of Navarre's offers Edward III despatched an expeditionary force to the Seine estuary under Sir Robert Knolles in July 1370. He invited Charles to come to England in person – which he did during that same month. Charles of Navarre entered into secret negotiations with Edward III at Clarendon Palace, but committed himself to very little. Simultaneously he continued to negotiate with Charles V, who feared the King of Navarre would throw in his lot with Knolles's army now operating in Northern France. Though Edward III sealed a draft treaty with Navarre on 2 December 1370 it was a dead letter after the destruction of Knolles's army at the Battle of Pontvallain a few days later. In March 1371, seeing no option left, Charles of Navarre had a series of meetings with Charles V and did homage to him.\n\nHaving gained little or nothing from these activities, he returned to Navarre in early 1372. He was subsequently involved in at least two attempts to have Charles V poisoned and encouraged various plots by others against the French King. He next entered into negotiations with John of Gaunt, who was aiming to make himself King of Castile by virtue of his marriage to Pedro I's daughter Constanza. But in 1373 Henry of Trastámara, now firmly installed as King of Castile and victorious in war against England's ally Portugal, forced Charles of Navarre to agree to a marriage alliance, to surrender the disputed border fortresses he had held on to since the Castilian civil war, and to close his borders to any army of John of Gaunt. Nevertheless in March 1374 Charles met John of Gaunt in Dax in Gascony and agreed to let him use Navarre as a base for invading Castile on condition he recapture the towns surrendered to Henry. Gaunt's sudden decision only a few days later to abandon his plans and return to England Charles took as a personal betrayal. In order to placate the Castilian King he now agreed for his eldest son, the future Charles III of Navarre, to marry Henry of Trastámara's daughter Leonora in May 1375.\n\nIn 1377 he proposed to the English that he would return to Normandy and put the harbours and castles he still controlled there at their disposal for a joint attack on France; he also proposed that his daughter should be married to the new English King, the young Richard II. But the threat of an attack by Castile forced Charles to remain in Navarre. Instead he sent off his eldest son to Normandy, with a number of officials, including his chamberlain Jacques de Rue, who were to prepare his castles to receive the English, as well as a servant whose mission was to insinuate himself into the royal kitchens in Paris and poison the King of France. Meanwhile he urgently appealed for the English to send him reinforcements from Gascony to help him fight the Castilians. But in March 1378 all his plots finally unravelled. On their way to Normandy the Navarrese delegation were arrested at Nemours. The draft treaties and correspondence with the English found in their baggage, along with Jacques de Rue's confessions under interrogation, were all that Charles V needed to send an army into northern Normandy to capture all the King of Navarre's remaining domains there (April–June 1378). Only Cherbourg held out: Charles of Navarre begged the English to send him reinforcements there but instead they seized it for themselves and garrisoned it against the French. Charles's son submitted to the French King and became a protégé of the Duke of Burgundy, fighting in the French armies. Jacques de la Rue and other prominent Navarrese officials in France were executed.\n\nFrom June–July 1378 the armies of Castile, commanded by John of Trastámara, invaded Navarre and laid the country waste. Charles II retreated over the Pyrenees to Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port and in October he made his way to Bordeaux to plead for military aid from Sir John Neville, the Lieutenant of Gascony. Neville despatched a small force to Navarre under the knight Sir Thomas Trivet, but the English achieved little over the winter and in February Henry of Trastámara announced his son would re-invade Navarre in the spring. Having no options or allies left Charles II asked for a truce, and by the Treaty of Briones on 31 March 1379 agreed to Henry's demands that he agree to be bound in perpetual military alliance with Castile and France against the English, and to surrender 20 fortresses of southern Navarre, including the city of Tudela to Castilian garrisons.\n\nCharles of Navarre's remarkably slippery and devious political career was at an end. He retained his crown and his country but he was effectively a humiliated client of his enemies, he had lost his French territories and his Pyrenean realm was devastated and impoverished by war. Though he continued to scheme and even still to consider himself the rightful King of France, he was essentially neutralized and impotent for the years that remained until his gruesome death.\n\nHe married Joan of France (1343–1373), daughter of king John II of France. He had the following children by Joan:\n\nCharles died in Pamplona, aged 54. His horrific death became famous all over Europe, and was often cited by moralists, and sometimes illustrated in illuminated manuscript chronicles. There are various contemporary versions that vary in detail. This is Francis Blagdon's English account, of 1801:\n\nAnother version states: \"He was now sixty years of age, and a mass of disease, from the viciousness of his habits. To maintain his warmth, his physician ordered him to be swathed in linen steeped in spirits of wine, and his bed to be warmed by a pan of hot coals. He had enjoyed the benefit of this singular prescription some time in safety, but now, as he was perpetrating his barbarities on the representatives of his kingdom, \"by the pleasure of God, or of the devil,\" says Froissart, \"the fire caught to his sheets, and from that to his person, swathed as it was in matter highly inflammable.\" He was fearfully burnt, but lingered nearly a fortnight in the most terrible agonies.\"\n\nSource: \"Cassell's Illustrated History of England\" volume I. p. 406\n\n"}
{"id": "19008923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19008923", "title": "Darth Maul", "text": "Darth Maul\n\nDarth Maul is a fictional character in the \"Star Wars\" franchise. Trained as Darth Sidious's first apprentice, he serves as a Sith Lord and a master of wielding a double-bladed lightsaber. He first appears in \"\" (portrayed by Ray Park and voiced by Peter Serafinowicz). Despite his apparent demise in that film at the hands of Obi-Wan Kenobi, he would later return in the \"\" animated television series, and would go on to make further appearances in the \"Star Wars Rebels\" series and the 2018 film \"\", all voiced by Sam Witwer.\n\nAfter getting frustrated with a drawing of production designer Gavin Bocquet, Iain McCaig started covering it in tape. Both he and Lucas liked the result, described as \"a kind of Rorschach pattern\". The final drawing had McCaig's own face, with the skin removed, and some Rorschach experimentation (dropping ink onto paper, folding it in half then opening).\n\nDarth Maul's head originally had feathers, based on prayer totems, but the Creature Effects crew led by Nick Dudman interpreted those feathers as horns, modifying his features into those common in popular depictions of the devil.\n\nHis clothing was also modified, from a tight body suit with a muscle pattern to the Sith robe based on samurai pleats, because the lightsaber battles involved much jumping, spinning, running, and rolling. Another concept had Maul a masked figure, something that could rival Darth Vader, while the senatorial characters would sport painted and tattooed faces. It was later decided to apply the painted and tattooed faces to Maul rather than the senator.\n\nDarth Maul was physically portrayed by actor and martial artist Ray Park in \"The Phantom Menace\". The character was voiced by comedian/voice actor/director Peter Serafinowicz in \"The Phantom Menace\" and ; while Samuel Witwer performed the character's voice in the animated series \"The Clone Wars\", \"Rebels\", and in the live action movie \"\". Actors Gregg Berger, Jess Harnell, Stephen Stanton, Clint Bajakian, and David W. Collins have all voiced him in \"Legends\" adaptations and minor appearances.\n\nIntroduced in \"\", Darth Maul is ordered by his new master Darth Sidious to capture Queen Padmé Amidala. On Tatooine, Maul fights Qui-Gon Jinn while approaching the Queen's starship. While the future Darth Vader gets on board, Qui-Gon engages Maul in a lightsaber duel, but the Jedi Master escapes. Eventually, Maul fights Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan Kenobi simultaneously. Maul duels Qui-Gon and eventually kills him. Although Obi-Wan is almost knocked down into a shaft, he uses the Force to propel himself out of the pit, and equips himself with Qui-Gon's lightsaber to bisect Maul, after which the two separated pieces of Maul's body fall into the shaft.\n\nRay Park reprises his role from \"\" as Darth Maul, with Sam Witwer providing the voice, reprising his role from the animated series, \"\" and \"Star Wars Rebels\". Maul is revealed to be the master of the crime syndicate Crimson Dawn, to which crime lord Dryden Vos answers. Qi'ra tells Maul that Vos and his men were killed by Tobias Beckett and his accomplices, but neglects to name Han Solo and Chewbacca. Maul commands her to meet with him on Dathomir and tells her that they will work more closely from now on, igniting his lightsaber.\n\nDarth Maul appears in the fourth and fifth seasons of the animated series \"\", which takes place between \"Attack of the Clones\" and \"Revenge of the Sith\". \n\nIn the third season, Darth Maul's origins are elaborated upon: he is portrayed as a warrior of the Nightbrother clan on the planet Dathomir inhabited by the dominant Nightsister witchcraft society led by Mother Talzin. Maul's tattoos are described as the markings of a warrior (in contrast to earlier sources which identify his body art as Sith markings). Talzin has Savage Opress find his long-lost brother.\n\nIn the fourth season, Darth Maul is revealed to be alive, having survived his presumed death at Obi-Wan Kenobi's hands. Having ended up on the junkyard planet Lotho Minor via a dumpster craft, Maul has suffered from amnesia since Obi-Wan defeated him. Opress finds Maul and brings him to the devastated Dathomir, where Talzin restores Maul's mind and gives him robotic legs. Maul and Opress set about a plan to exact revenge on Obi-Wan. Maul proceeds to attack a village on planet Raydonia as his first attempt on Obi-Wan's life, only to be thwarted due to Asajj Ventress's unexpected appearance to collect a bounty on Opress. Maul and Opress overpower Obi-Wan and Ventress, but Maul lets them go upon realizing that the Jedi know of his existence, deciding to await another opportunity.\n\nIn the fifth season, Maul takes Opress as his apprentice, and begins building a criminal empire. Needing followers, they travel to Florrum and manage to convince Weequay pirate Jiro and his crew to join them and betray their leader Hondo Ohnaka. Maul's pirates attack Hondo's loyal forces, and Maul once again duels Obi-Wan while Opress fights and kills Jedi Master Adi Gallia. Obi-Wan and Hondo forces retreat and regroup inside Hondo's compound. Maul's forces eventually break in and Obi-Wan draws the two brothers away from the pirates, engaging them in a two-on-one duel while the pirate factions fight elsewhere in the compound. Obi-Wan, though outnumbered, cuts off Opress's arm and forces the Sith Lords to retreat. Meanwhile, Honda wins back his crew by \"persuading\" them under threat of heavy artillery. Obi-Wan blows off one of Maul's robotic legs and badly damages Maul's ship. Maul and Opress manage to escape, but get stuck in dead space due to the damage to their ship. After several days, they are found close to death by the Death Watch Mandalorian warriors, led by Pre Vizsla, who gives Maul a new set of legs and Opress a new mechanical arm. Maul offers Vizsla the chance to reclaim Mandalore by recruiting the Black Sun and Pyke crime families and Jabba the Hutt's minions to create the criminal syndicate named The Shadow Collective.\n\nFrom there, Maul engineers Vizsla's rise to power: he orders his henchmen to attack Mandalore so the Death Watch can arrest them and appear as heroes to the denizens who have long lived under Duchess Satine Kryze's pacifist rule. Vizsla betrays Maul, imprisoning both Savage and him. Easily breaking free, Maul challenges Vizsla to a duel to take over the Death Watch and Mandalore; he succeeds in killing Vizsla and then claims his former co-conspirator's darksaber. He wins the loyalty of most Death Watch members, but Bo Katan retreats along with those loyal to their previous leader. Maul then puts the disgraced former prime minister Almec, whom Satine had imprisoned for corruption, in power as a puppet leader, solidifying his control over Mandalore. Maul then anticipates Satine being broken out of prison and her attempt to contact the Jedi Council as part of his plan to get Obi-Wan to Mandalore. Once Obi-Wan arrives and attempts to rescue Satine, Maul captures him and exacts revenge on the Jedi by murdering Satine right in front of him, hoping to make the Jedi suffer as much as he once did. Obi-Wan is later freed by the Night Owl rebels (Bo Katan's Death Watch faction) who request Republic aid.\n\nMaul senses Darth Sidious arriving on Mandalore. Although impressed with his former apprentice's survival, Sidious declares Maul a rival and uses the Force to push and choke him and Opress. He then engages them both in lightsaber combat, fatally injuring Opress. After Opress dies from his wounds, Sidious reminds Maul of the , and tells him that he has been replaced. Enraged, Maul pulls out both his lightsaber and darksaber and proceeds to fight Sidious on equal ground, but Sidious ultimately defeats him. Maul pleads for mercy, but Sidious ignores him and tortures him with blasts of Force lightning. Sidious reveals that he has no intention of killing Maul, remarking that he has other uses for his former apprentice.\n\nAn older Maul appears in the season 2 finale of \"Star Wars Rebels,\" which takes place in between and . Tracked by an Inquisitor named the Eighth Brother, Maul is stranded on the ancient Sith world of Malachor, where he is discovered by series protagonist Ezra Bridger among the ruins. Introducing himself as \"Old Master\" and seeking revenge against Sidious, Maul leads Ezra into an ancient Sith temple, where they discover a holocron that Maul claims can give them the knowledge needed to defeat the Sith. After recovering it, the two find Ezra's master Kanan Jarrus and former Jedi Ahsoka Tano locked in battle with the Eighth Brother. They also find the Fifth Brother and the Seventh Sister, who have been pursuing the Rebels for some time. Maul – having cast aside the title of Darth – then reveals a new lightsaber disguised as a walking stick and joins the Jedi in battling their enemies.\n\nAfter the Inquisitors retreat, Maul wins the Jedi's trust by denouncing the Sith, and tells them that he cannot defeat Darth Vader on his own. Working together, he and the Jedi ascend towards the top of the Sith temple and successfully kill all three Inquisitors. It is then that Maul reveals his intention to take Ezra as his apprentice, having already tricked him into activating the temple. After blinding Kanan, Maul briefly duels Ahsoka before facing Kanan again, only to be knocked off the temple's edge. However, he survives the fall and escapes Malachor in the Eighth Brother's TIE Fighter.\n\nMonths after the events on Malachor, Maul once again reveals himself to the Jedi as he takes the \"Ghost\"s crew hostage. He threatens to kill them unless Kanan and Ezra bring both the Sith and Jedi holocrons to him. Despite an attempt by the Rebels to escape, Maul successfully recaptures them and takes them to a remote base in the Outer Rim where he awaits the arrival of the Jedi. After they arrive, the holocrons are hazardously united allowing Ezra and Maul to see visions of their desires: Ezra sees images of a way to destroy the Sith, images including \"twin suns\", while Maul sees a vision of his own. Kanan begs Ezra to look away before he sees something he doesn't want to while Maul tells him to ignore Kanan and keep looking. Ezra heeds his master's words and breaks off the connection, which causes a great explosion. Maul escapes in the confusion, uttering, \"He lives.\"\n\nMaul reappears after finding the Rebellion's secret base. He tells Ezra that because the connection was severed, they got bits and pieces of each other's visions. With the holocrons destroyed from the events of their previous meeting, Maul discovered another way to get the information he needed. With Ezra he travels to Dathomir, former home of the Night Sisters, and recreates one of their spells to temporarily meld his and Ezra's minds. After the spell is completed Ezra, who was still looking for a way to destroy the Sith, and Maul realize they are both looking for Obi-Wan Kenobi.\n\nIn the episode \"Twin Suns\", Maul is shown lost on Tatooine. He decides to use Ezra to lure Obi-Wan out of hiding. During their confrontation, Maul deduces that Obi-Wan is not only hiding, but is protecting someone. In a swift duel, Obi-Wan fatally wounds Maul. As he lies dying in Obi-Wan's arms, Maul asks if the person he is protecting is the Chosen One, and Obi-Wan replies \"he is\". Maul declares that this \"Chosen One\" will avenge them, and dies.\n\nIn 2017, Marvel released \"Star Wars: Darth Maul\" a 5-issue prequel series centered on Darth Maul before the events of \"The Phantom Menace\".\n\nDark Horse Comics produced \"\" based on the scripts and storyboards of an unproduced 4-episode story arc intended for \"The Clone Wars\" Season 6. After killing Savage Opress, Darth Sidious takes Maul to a Separatist prison, where Count Dooku tortures him for information about the Shadow Collective. Prime Minister Almec arranges Maul's escape and the latter then heads back to Zanbar to command the Death Watch army. However, he is followed there by General Grievous and his droids, who then battle with Maul and the Mandalorians. While they put up a fierce fight, Maul and his minions are ultimately overwhelmed by the droids. During the battle, Maul tears through the droid ranks and attacks Grievous, but is overpowered and forced to retreat. Afterwards, Maul confers with Mother Talzin (revealed to be his biological mother) and plots to draw out Sidious by capturing Dooku and General Grievous. The scheme works, and Talzin is able to restore herself to her physical form, but she sacrifices herself to save Maul. Although Maul escapes with a company of loyal Mandalorians, the Shadow Collective has fallen apart due to the conflict with Sidious, as the Hutts, Pykes, and Black Sun have all abandoned Maul.\n\nIn flashbacks during the novel \"\", it is revealed that during the final days of the Clone Wars, Maul and his forces were besieged on Mandalore by an army of clone troopers led by Ahsoka Tano and Captain Rex. During the siege, Maul confronts and duels Ahsoka, and though he proves to be the stronger fighter, the former Jedi outwits him and traps him in a ray shield. However, before Maul can be taken into official custody, Order 66 is enacted and the clone troopers following Ahsoka turn on her, with the exception of Rex. With Rex's life in peril, Ahsoka abandons the chance of killing Maul, allowing the former Sith to escape once again. This battle was originally intended to be depicted in the series finale of \"The Clone Wars\" had the series not been prematurely cancelled – Anakin and Obi-Wan were dispatched to Mandalore with Ahsoka, but were immediately called back to Coruscant to rescue Chancellor Palpatine, thus leading into the opening sequence of \"Revenge of the Sith\".\n\nWith the 2012 acquisition of Lucasfilm by The Walt Disney Company, most of the licensed \"Star Wars\" novels and comics produced since the originating 1977 film \"Star Wars\" were rebranded as \"Star Wars Legends\" and declared non-canon to the franchise in April 2014.\n\nAs portrayed in the novel \"Darth Plagueis\", the titular Sith Lord sends his apprentice, Darth Sidious, to the Force-rich world of Dathomir. A Dathomiri witch, or Night-sister, senses Sidious' power in the Force and approaches him. She assumes he is a Jedi and begs him to take her Zabrak infant son. She realizes Sidious is not a Jedi, and explains how she is trying to save her son from a Nightsister named Talzin, who killed Maul's father. It is implied that Maul has a twin brother and that Talzin is only aware of one child. Sidious realizes the infant is strong in the Force, and would become a threat if found by the Jedi. Concealing the existence of his own master, Sidious raises Maul to believe that he is a Sith apprentice, but he actually intends him to be an expendable—albeit useful—minion rather than an heir. Maul himself acknowledges his shortcomings, such as his limited understanding of politics, even as he tries to become a true Sith.\n\nAs portrayed in the novel \"\", Maul was raised by Sidious for as long as he can remember. He then trains Maul as a Sith, marking his body with Sith tattoos. Maul initially goes on several missions of terror for his master, killing politicians, crime bosses, merchants and warlords.\n\nSeveral sources depict Maul returning from the dead in several different forms. The story \"Resurrection\" from \"Star Wars Tales 9\" depicts a cult creating a duplicate of Maul as a replacement for Darth Vader, only for Vader to kill him. The story \"Phantom Menaces\" in \"Star Wars Tales\" #17 (set after \"Return of the Jedi\") depicts Luke Skywalker visiting Maul's home planet of Iridonia in an ambassadorial capacity, where he faces a \"solid state hologram\" of Maul projected from Maul's salvaged brain as part of a scientist's attempt to recreate Maul as Iridonia's \"champion\". Luke recognizes the disruption that Maul's existence is causing in the Force, and shuts down the life-support systems keeping the brain alive.\n\nIn 2005, Dark Horse Comics published \"\", a compilation of comic art short stories. One story \"Old Wounds\", considered to be non-canonical to \"Star Wars\" lore, depicts Maul, now with longer horns on his head, surviving his bisection at Obi-Wan's hands, replacing his missing bottom half with cybernetic legs, similar to those of General Grievous. He then follows Obi-Wan throughout the galaxy, finally tracking him down on Tatooine a few years after the events of \"\". Maul taunts Obi-Wan, saying that after he kills him, he will take a toddler-aged Luke Skywalker to his master, Emperor Palpatine. Maul plans to kill Darth Vader, and resume his rightful place at Palpatine's side as his apprentice. He ignites his new double-bladed lightsaber, and engages Obi-Wan in a lightsaber duel, but Obi-Wan again bests him in combat, cutting off his opponent's horns. The Sith Lord is killed, unexpectedly, by a blaster bolt to the head from Owen Lars. Obi-Wan thanks Owen, and says he will take Maul's body into the desert and burn it so he can never come back.\n\nIn early 2012, a young adult novel entitled \"\" was released by Scholastic. In the 2014 novel, \"\", set before \"The Phantom Menace\", Darth Maul is sent into an infamous galactic prison. Maul is also featured prominently in comic series starting in this period, \"Star Wars: The Clone Wars: The Sith Hunters\" & \"Darth Maul: Death Sentence\". Set in the period of the Clone Wars around the various episodes that featured Maul, \"Sith Hunters\" and \"Death Sentence\" detail his and Savage Opress' journey across the galaxy as they seek vengeance on the Jedi.\n\nSince the release of \"The Phantom Menace\", Darth Maul has proven to be a popular character. IGN named Darth Maul the 16th greatest \"Star Wars\" character, noting, \"Of the countless characters to walk in and out of the \"Star Wars\" saga, none looks or acts more badass than Darth Maul.\"\n\nDarth Maul-related merchandise was popular among Hasbro \"Star Wars\" toy lines, with plastic recreations of his double bladed lightsaber and various action figures in his likeness developed. Darth Maul was the focal point of the toy marketing campaign surrounding the 2012 re-release of \"The Phantom Menace\", being featured on the packaging for the toy line.\n\nIn December 2017, an 8-year-old Ontario boy went viral on the Internet with a video of him pretending to be Darth Maul and displaying his martial arts skills.\n\n"}
{"id": "37075612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37075612", "title": "Disappearance of Peter Wilson", "text": "Disappearance of Peter Wilson\n\nPeter Wilson (1952 – 1 August 1973) was a man from Northern Ireland who was abducted and killed by the Provisional Irish Republican Army. The IRA never gave any explanation for his abduction and murder. His body was not found for 37 years, and he was listed as one of the Disappeared by the Independent Commission for the Location of Victims' Remains.\n\nWilson, a native of West Belfast, with five siblings, was described as \"a vulnerable man with learning difficulties\". He was abducted by the IRA in the summer of 1973, somewhere in the St. James area of Belfast, and killed. Only in 2009 was he added to the list of Northern Ireland's 'Disappeared'. His body was located at the beach in Waterfoot, County Antrim on 2 November 2010, the day after excavations began following the receipt of \"reliable and high quality\" information. His family had often walked on the beach, unaware that he was buried there. Wilson was the ninth of the known \"Disappeared\" to be located since 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44813579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44813579", "title": "Edgar J. Adams", "text": "Edgar J. Adams\n\nEdgar J. Adams was a Republican member of the Michigan House of Representatives from 1897 through 1900. He served as Speaker of the House during the 40th Legislature.\n\nAdams was born in August 1866 to George and Margaret Adams. At age 6, the family moved to a farm in Monroe County, where he attended school, and again, six years later, the family moved to a farm in Gratiot County. Adams' father was a distant relative of John and John Quincy Adams. He taught one term of school at age 17, later becoming employed by Hopkins & Lyon in Mt. Pleasant. Adams taught himself in the law and, after moving to Grand Rapids in 1892, was admitted to the bar in 1894.\n\nAdams' re-election in 1898 was not without controversy as he was opposed by Governor Hazen S. Pingree and members of his own political party. His election as Speaker in 1899 was similarly fraught, and described as \"one of the most bitter and determined fights ever witnessed.\"\n\nAdams served as a delegate to the convention which drafted the 1908 Michigan Constitution. He was a member of the Knights of Pythias.\n"}
{"id": "6835293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6835293", "title": "Final Exit Network", "text": "Final Exit Network\n\nFinal Exit Network, Inc. (FEN) is an American 501(c)(3) nonprofit right to die and pro-assisted suicide organization incorporated in Tallahassee, Florida. It holds that \nmentally competent adults who suffer from terminal illnesses, intractable pain, or irreversible physical (though not necessarily terminal) conditions have a right to voluntarily end their lives and, if they desire, to seek assistance to that end. In cases deemed valid, the Final Exit Network arranges what it refers to as \"self-deliverances\". Typically, the network assigns two \"exit guides\" to a client and are present when they die, but the network insists that they do not take an active role in the \"death event\"; rather, their role is that of compassionate advisors and witnesses.\n\nFinal Exit Network was founded in 2004 by former members of the Hemlock Society, including that organization's co-founders, Derek Humphry and Dr. Faye Girsh. It was named after Humphry's 1991 book of the same name. It is a member of the World Federation of Right to Die Societies.\n\nThe organization has occasionally been the subject of controversy and criticism due to its methodology, It favors the inhalation of inert gasses such as helium or nitrogen in conjunction with an \"exit hood\".\n\nFinal Exit Network and individual members have been defendants in notable legal cases in Arizona, Georgia, and Minnesota. The defenses have largely centered around what constitutes aiding or assisting in suicides. The defendants conceded that while volunteer exit guides were present at the deaths of their clients, they did not physically take part in the suicides, and they alleged that prohibitions against informing clients how to take their lives is a violation of the free speech clause in the First Amendment to the Bill of Rights. The Minnesota case resulted in the first conviction of the Final Exit Network; they were ordered to pay in excess of $30,000 in fines and restitution. In October 2017, the United States Supreme Court declined to hear the case.\n\nThe Final Exit Network traces its history to the Hemlock Society. It was founded in 1980 primarily by British-born American journalist and author Derek Humphry, his late wife Ann Wickett Humphry, Canadian former Presbyterian minister-turned-skeptic Gerald A. Larue, and psychologist Dr. Faye Girsh. However, in the early 2000's, a faction decided they did not like the Hemlock name. In 2003, the national organization renamed itself End of Life Choices. They later merged with the Compassion in Dying Federation to become Compassion & Choices. (.PDF) Before the merger, Derek Humphry, Faye Girsh, and others founded the Final Exit Network. Where Compassion & Choices' focus is on legislative reform and advocating for and ensuring access to end-of-life options, the Final Exit Network concerns itself with what it believes to be the immediate issue of self-deliverance.\n\nTypically, clients' only person-to-person contact with the Final Exit Network is through \"exit guides\", who are volunteers assigned by case coordinators to meet with clients and are witnesses to the death events.\n\n, the Network had about 30 guides. Guides provide services including companionship during death, education, advice regarding the discovery of remains and facilitation of conversations with friends and family. Before an applicant is approved for the Final Exit Network's services, a guide visits the applicant's home and conduct an interview with them and any family involved to assess if a voluntary and informed choice has been made by the applicant regarding self-deliverance.\n\nIn the case of Doreen Dunn, the attendant exit guides were determined by the state to have removed the equipment with which she had ended her life.\n\nThe Final Exit Network and several members have been defendants in three notable prosecutions: the April 12, 2007 death of Jana Van Voorhis of Phoenix, Arizona; the May 30, 2007 death of Doreen Dunn of Apple Valley, Minnesota; and the June 20, 2008 death of John Celmer of Cumming, Georgia.\n\nJana Van Voorhis was a 58-year-old Phoenix, Arizona woman with a history of mental illness whose suicide was allegedly assisted by the Final Exit Network in 2007. She falsely claimed to have a myriad of physical diseases and expressed a belief that she may have had breast cancer. Two members of the Final Exit Network were charged with aiding in a suicide (which is considered manslaughter under Arizona law) and conspiracy to commit manslaughter. Two others were charged only with conspiracy.\n\nIn plea bargains, two of the defendants, senior exit guide Wye Hale-Rowe and case coordinator Roberta Massey, each pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor charge of facilitation to commit manslaughter. Both women were elderly; the pleas ensured they would not run any risk of prison sentences. The trial of the other two began on April 4, 2011. After a two-week trial, Final Exit Network's medical director, Dr. Lawrence Egbert, was acquitted. The jury was unable to reach a verdict on the case against exit guide Frank Langsner. Before his retrial, scheduled for August 4, 2011, Langsner accepted a plea bargain on one misdemeanor count of endangerment and was sentenced to one year probation, following which his record would be expunged.\n\nOn February 25, 2009, four members of the Final Exit Network were arrested on charges of assisting the suicide of a cancer patient, John Celmer, of Cumming, Georgia. Those arrested were Ted Goodwin, Claire Blehr, Dr. Lawrence Egbert, and Nicholas Alec Sheridan. Goodwin and Blehr were arrested in a \"sting\" operation by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI); Egbert and Sheridan, who were residents of Baltimore, Maryland, were later arrested. They and the organization were also indicted on a charge of racketeering. On April 1, 2010, the five defendants pleaded not guilty.\n\nThe defendants moved to dismiss the indictment on grounds that the Georgia statute on aiding in a suicide was facially unconstitutional under the First Amendment. In early 2011, the trial court judge entered an order denying the defendants' motion to dismiss the indictment. The judge entered an order authorizing the defendants to appeal this decision before trial and suspending the prosecution until the appeals court's ruling.\n\nOn February 6, 2012, the Supreme Court of Georgia unanimously found the Georgia statute against assisting in a suicide unconstitutional in violation of First Amendment free speech provisions, and struck down the statute in its entirety. All the charges against Goodwin, Blehr, Egbert, and Sheridan were therefore dismissed.\n\nMinnesota authorities were tipped off by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation when Doreen Dunn's name was found among physical evidence. Dunn was a 57-year-old Apple Valley, Minnesota woman who suffered from intense pain since 1996 following a botched medical procedure. Her husband Mark found her dead at home on May 30, 2007. An autopsy concluded that Dunn died of coronary artery disease.\n\nIn May 2012, Final Exit Network was indicted of assisting in the May 30, 2007 death of Doreen Nan Dunn (née Gunderson; born May 6, 1950) of Apple Valley, Minnesota. Four members: Dr. Lawrence Egbert, then-case coordinator Roberta Massey, and exit guides Ted Goodwin and Jerry Dincin (Goodwin's successor as president) were also charged individually in the 17-count indictment, which included felony counts of assisting in a suicide and gross misdemeanors of interfering with a death scene.\n\nDistrict Court Judge Karen Asphaug dismissed charges against Ted Goodwin on March 22, 2013 on grounds that the state law prohibiting advising a suicide is unconstitutional because the language is too broad; she also dismissed a charge of interfering with a death scene. Jerry Dincin died of prostate cancer four days later. On the eve of trial in 2015, the state filed a motion to sever Lawrence Egbert's trial from that of Final Exit Network, Inc. He was granted immunity over his objection.\n\nDr. Lawrence Egbert testified that he and Jerry Dincin had gone to Dunn's home to be present with her as she terminated her life, then removed the equipment in order to make it appear as if Dunn had died of natural causes. Final Exit Network's attorney, Robert Rivas, acknowledged that Egbert and Dincin were in Dunn's presence when she died, but he asserted that the state (represented by prosecutor Phil Prokopowicz) had no proof that the men physically assisted in her death.\n\nAlthough there was a Minnesota statute in effect at the time of Dunn's death which prohibited \"advising, encouraging, or assisting\" in a \"suicide\", the state Court of Appeals found the statute to be unconstitutional because it violated the defendants' First Amendment-protected right to freedom of speech. The court ruled that the statute's prohibitions against \"advising\" and \"encouraging\" a suicide had to be stricken, but it allowed the state to prosecute Final Exit Network for \"assisting\" in a suicide. In an unrelated case before the trial, the Supreme Court of Minnesota ruled that \"speech\" can constitute \"assisting\" suicide if the message gives specific instructions on how to carry it out.\n\nOn May 14, 2015, a jury convicted Final Exit Network Inc. of assisting Doreen Dunn's suicide and interfering with the death scene. It marked the first felony conviction against the organization or its personnel and the first time a jury had ever rendered a guilty verdict of any type against the organization or its personnel. It was fined $30,000 by Judge Christian Wilton on the charge of assisting in a suicide and was also required to pay $3,000 in restitution to Dunn's family for funeral expenses. The United States Supreme Court refused to hear the appeal.\n\nIn early 2018, after exhausting its appeals from the Minnesota conviction, Final Exit Network, Inc. filed a civil action in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota seeking a ruling that the Minnesota law under which the corporation was convicted is facially unconstitutional under the First Amendment. A hearing on the Minnesota attorney general's motion to dismiss the complaint was scheduled to take place in late July 2018.\n\nThe organization and its activities were the subject of a November 13, 2012 episode of the public affairs series \"Frontline\" entitled \"The Suicide Plan\". It was written and directed by Miri Navasky and Karen O'Connor.\n\nIt includes interviews with clients, exit guides, and both proponents and opponents of assisted suicide. The Final Exit Network allowed the filmmakers to film part of an exit guide training session. Interviewees include organization founder Derek Humphry, Dr. Timothy E. Quill, and Barbara Coombs Lee of Compassion & Choices. It also features Bruce Brodigan of Massachusetts and Hunt Williams of Connecticut, two men who were charged with assisting in suicides. Brodigan assisted his father George's suicide; charges were later dismissed. He died on April 7, 2012 in Ogunquit, Maine after slipping on rocks and falling into the ocean. Williams assisted his friend John Welles to fatally shoot himself; he was sentenced to one year's probation and accelerated rehabilitation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1219975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219975", "title": "Frederic Brooks Dugdale", "text": "Frederic Brooks Dugdale\n\nLieutenant Frederic Brooks Dugdale VC (21 October 1877 – 13 November 1902) was an English recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces.\n\nHe was 23 years old, and a lieutenant in the 5th Lancers (Royal Irish), British Army during the Second Boer War when the following deed took place on 3 March 1901 near Derby, South Africa for which he was awarded the VC.\nHe stayed with his regiment in South Africa until the war ended in May 1902, and left for the United Kingdom on the \"SS Briton\" two months later. Shortly after his return, he was killed in a horse riding accident whilst riding with the North Cotswold Hunt, near Charingworth, Gloucestershire, England, on 13 November 1902.\n\nHis Victoria Cross is displayed at The Queen's Royal Lancers and Nottinghamshire Yeomanry Museum, Thoresby Park, Nottinghamshire, England.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11587714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11587714", "title": "George L. Kinnard", "text": "George L. Kinnard\n\nGeorge L. Kinnard (1803–1836) was a Representative from Indiana; born in Pennsylvania in 1803; moved with his widowed mother to Tennessee and completed preparatory studies; moved to Indianapolis, Ind., in 1823; studied law; was admitted to the bar and practised in Marion County, Indiana; assessor for Marion County in 1826 and 1827; member of the State house of representatives 1827–1830; county surveyor 1831–1835; colonel of the State militia; elected as a Jacksonian to the Twenty-third and Twenty-fourth Congresses and served from March 4, 1833, until his death from injuries received in an explosion on the steamer Flora on the Ohio River November 26, 1836; interment probably in Presbyterian Burying Ground (now Washington Park), Cincinnati, Ohio.\n\nKinnard was serving in the Indiana General Assembly when legislation was passed on January 29, 1830, providing for the organization of Boone County, Indiana (to be effective on April 1, 1830) Colonel Kinnard was \"in on the ground floor\" to further developments. Knowing that the new county would need a county seat which would probably be located in or near the unit's geographical center, Kinnard and business partner James Perry Drake busied themselves looking over surveys and records, and found that there were three parcels of land yet available in the very center of the county.\n\nAccordingly, Kinnard and Drake made entry on the three tracts at the Federal land office in Crawfordsville, on March 1, 1830, receiving their \"patents\" or deeds from the U. S. Government on February 8, 1831. It is assumed that they paid $l.25 an acre for the land, which was then the usual price. One of these tracts contained 62.32 acres, and lay between what is now Fordice and South Streets, and extended east from the meridian line to Park Street. Eighty acres in a second tract lay immediately west of the meridian line, and was bounded on the south by South street, and on the north by Royal and Fordice Streets. Just southwest of this acreage was another eighty which ran from South street to Noble street, and almost to Patterson street on the west.\n\nWith the land acquired, it is reasonable to believe that the two set to work at once platting a town on a portion of their holdings. This area, as platted, roughly was bounded on the north by Royal and Fordice streets, on the east by Park Street, on the south by South Street, and on the west by Clark Street. The plat consisted of 12 outlots, 19 blocks exclusive of the public square, and five partial blocks, with the full and partial blocks forming what is known as the \"Original Plat\" of Lebanon. Each of the 19 blocks was divided into eight lots, each lot being approximately 60 by 120 feet in size. This \"Original Plat\" extended from a line some thirty feet south of South Street, north to Williams Street, and from a line midway between East and Park streets west to Clark Street.\n\nDespite the assertion made in a letter written many years afterward by a former resident of Boone County that the Indianapolis and Lafayette Road was surveyed and located in 1829, there is good evidence that this was not so. Apparently, the actual surveying was not done until some time in 1831, and after Kinnard and Drake had mapped out the town site which they hoped would become the county seat.\n\nKinnard, as Marion County's surveyor, surveyed the highway through the wilderness, working northwest from Indianapolis toward Lafayette. When he reached the town plat that he and Drake had set up, he made certain that travelers would not miss the place by the simple expedient of jogging the road west down Main street a distance of some eight blocks, to angle out Lafayette avenue and on northwest toward Lafayette. He did not however foresee the day when a great highway, Interstate 65, would nullify his careful planning by going around his \"dream city\". \nFrom: Birth Certificates of Boone County, Indiana, by Ralph W. Stark, 1979\n\n"}
{"id": "22225536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22225536", "title": "Ghulam Mohammed Abdul Khader", "text": "Ghulam Mohammed Abdul Khader\n\nGhulam Mohammed Abdul Khader (died 1993) was the seventh prince of the House of Arcot. He was the son of Ghulam Mohiuddin Khan, the sixth Nawab of Arcot and held the title from 1969 until his death 1993. He was succeeded by the Muhammed Abdul Ali who inherited the title.\n\nBecause the Nawabs of Arcot had a special treaty with the government, this title was not abolished along with all other noble titles of India in 1972.\n"}
{"id": "3393222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3393222", "title": "Hans Clarin", "text": "Hans Clarin\n\nHans Clarin (14 September 1929 – 28 August 2005) was a German actor. He became a well-known voice actor of characters in children audio plays, particularly the kobold \"Pumuckl\" (including its TV and cinematic film adaptations), the German voice of René Goscinny and Albert Uderzo's diminutive Gaulish hero Asterix (in circa 30 German audioplay adaptations of the \"Asterix\" comic books, produced and published 1986-1992 under the Europa label), and the ghost \"\".\n\nClarin was born Hans-Joachim Schmid in Wilhelmshaven, and grew up in Frankfurt am Main. After graduation he studied acting in Munich from 1948 to 1950. He made his début appearance in 1950 in Franz Grillparzer's play \"Weh dem, der lügt\" (\"Woe to him who lies\"). From 1952 until 1967 he was employed by the Bavarian State Theatre in Munich, where he appeared in plays such as \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", \"Leonce and Lena\", \"Woyzeck\" and \"The Blue Angel\", and gained a reputation as a character actor who excelled in both comic and dramatic roles, as well as musicals and opera.\n\nHe made his first appearance on film in 1952, playing the title role in \"Zwerg Nase\", based on a fairy tale by Wilhelm Hauff. He went on to appear in over 100 television and feature films, including \"The Haunted Castle\" (1960), \"The Indian Scarf\" (1963) and \"Pippi Longstocking\" (1969).\n\nOn television, he gained popularity through roles in the series \"Weißblaue Geschichten\" (1985), \"Fest im Sattel\" (1988), \"Rivalen der Rennbahn\" (1989), \"Peter und Paul\" (1992), \"Titus, der Satansbraten\" (1997), as well as making appearances in the long running crime series \"Ein Fall für zwei\", \"Der Alte\" and \"Tatort\". Between 1995 and 2000 he appeared in five productions by the Chiemgauer Volkstheater.\n\nClarin was also a voice artist, dubbing the voice for \"Kookie\" Kookson in the US series \"77 Sunset Strip\", and playing the title role in the children's audio series \"Hui Buh\" and \"Pumuckl\".\n\nOn 28 August 2005 Clarin died aged 75, in his adopted hometown of Aschau im Chiemgau, of heart failure.\n\nClarin was made a Bavarian \"Staatsschauspieler\" (\"State Actor\") in 1961, and was awarded the Federal Order of Merit in 1994 and the Bavarian Order of Merit in 1997. In May 2006 the \"Bahnhofsplatz\" in Aschau im Chiemgau was renamed \"Hans-Clarin-Platz\" in his honour.\n\nClarin was married three times; first to Irene Reiter, with whom he had three daughters. With his second wife, Margarethe, Freiin von Cramer-Klett, he had a son Philip and a daughter Anne. In 1995 Clarin married his third wife Christa Maria, Gräfin von Hardenberg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6724915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6724915", "title": "Hybrot", "text": "Hybrot\n\nA hybrot (short for \"hybrid robot\") is a cybernetic organism in the form of a robot controlled by a computer consisting of both electronic and biological elements. The biological elements are typically rat neurons connected to a computer chip.\n\nThis feat was first accomplished by Dr. Steve Potter, a professor of biomedical engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology:\n\nWhat separates a hybrot from a cyborg is that the latter term is commonly used to refer to a cybernetically enhanced human or animal; while a hybrot is an entirely new type of creature constructed from organic and artificial materials. It is perhaps helpful to think of the hybrot as \"semi-living\", a term also used by the hybrot's inventors.\n\nAnother interesting feature of the hybrot is its longevity. Neurons separated from a living brain usually die after only a couple of months. However, due to a specially designed incubator built around a gas-tight culture chamber selectively permeable to carbon dioxide, but impermeable to water vapor, reduces the risk of contamination and evaporation, and may extend the life of the hybrot to one to two years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "182970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182970", "title": "Immorality", "text": "Immorality\n\nImmorality is the violation of moral laws, norms or standards. Immorality is normally applied to people or actions, or in a broader sense, it can be applied to groups or corporate bodies, beliefs, religions, and works of art.\n\nAristotle saw many vices as excesses or deficits in relation to some virtue, as cowardice and rashness relate to courage. Some attitudes and actionssuch as envy, murder, and thefthe saw as wrong in themselves, with no question of a deficit/excess in relation to the mean.\n\nImmorality is often closely linked with both religion and sexuality. Max Weber saw rational articulated religions as engaged in a long-term struggle with more physical forms of religious experience linked to dance, intoxication and sexual activity. Durkheim pointed out how many primitive rites culminated in abandoning the distinction between licit and immoral behavior.\n\nFreud's dour conclusion was that \"In every age immorality has found no less support in religion than morality has\".\n\nCoding of sexual behavior has historically been a feature of all human societies, as too; has been the policing of breaches of its moressexual immoralityby means of formal and informal social control. Interdictions and taboos among primitive societies were arguably no less severe than in traditional agrarian societies. In the latter, the degree of control might vary from time to time and region to region, being least in urban settlements; however, only the last three centuries of intense urbanisation, commercialisation and modernisation have broken with the restrictions of the pre-modern world, in favor of a successor society of fractured and competing sexual codes and subcultures, where sexual expression is integrated into the workings of the commercial world.\n\nNevertheless, while the meaning of sexual immorality has been drastically redefined in recent times, arguably the boundaries of what is acceptable remain publicly policed and as highly charged as ever, as the decades-long debates in the US over reproductive rights after \"Roe v. Wade\", or 21st-century controversy over child images on Wikipedia and Amazon would tend to suggest.\n\nMichel Foucault considered that the modern world was unable to put forward a coherent moralityan inability underpinned philosophically by emotivism. Nevertheless, modernism has often been accompanied by a cult of immorality, as for example when John Ciardi acclaimed Naked Lunch as \"a monumentally moral descent into the hell of narcotic addiction\".\n\nPsychoanalysis received much early criticism for being the unsavory product of an immoral townVienna; psychoanalysts for being both unscrupulous and dirty-minded.\n\nFreud himself however was of the opinion that \"anyone who has succeeded in educating himself to truth about himself is permanently defended against the danger of immorality, even though his standard of morality may differ\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2683875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2683875", "title": "Intersubjective verifiability", "text": "Intersubjective verifiability\n\nIntersubjective verifiability is the capacity of a concept to be readily and accurately communicated between different individuals (\"intersubjectively\"), and to be reproduced under varying circumstances for the purposes of verification. It is a core principle of empirical, scientific investigation.\n\nAlthough there are areas of belief that do not consistently employ intersubjective verifiability (e.g., many religious claims), intersubjective verifiability is a near-universal way of arbitrating truth claims used by people everywhere. In its basic form, it can be found in colloquial expressions, e.g., \"I'm from Missouri. Show me!\" or \"Seeing is believing\". The scientific principle of replication of findings by investigators other than those that first reported the phenomenon is simply a more highly structured form of the universal principle of intersubjective verifiability.\n\nEach individual is a subject, and must subjectively experience the physical world. Each subject has a different perspective and point of view on various aspects of the world. However, by sharing their comparable experiences intersubjectively, individuals may gain an increasingly similar understanding of the world. In this way, many different subjective experiences can come together to form intersubjective ones that are less likely to be prone to individual bias or gaps in knowledge.\n\nWhile specific internal experiences are not intersubjectively verifiable, the existence of thematic patterns of internal experience can be intersubjectively verified. For example, whether or not people are telling what they believe to be the truth when they make claims can only be known by the claimants. However, we can intersubjectively verify that people almost universally experience discomfort (hunger) when they haven't had enough to eat. We generally have only a crude ability to compare (measure) internal experiences.\n\nWhen an external, public phenomenon is experienced and carefully described (in words or measurements) by one individual, other individuals can see if their experiences of the phenomenon \"fit\" the description. If they do, a sense of congruence between one subject and another occurs. This is the basis for a definition of what is true that is agreed upon by the involved parties. If the description does not fit the experience of one or more of the parties involved, incongruence occurs instead.\n\nIncongruent contradictions between the experience and descriptions of different individuals can be caused by a number of factors. One common source of incongruence is the inconsistent use of language in the descriptions people use, such as the same words being used differently. Such semantic problems require more careful development and use of language.\n\nIncongruence also arises from a failure to describe the phenomena well. In these cases, further development of the description, model, or theory used to refer to the phenomena is required.\n\nA third form of incongruence arises when the descriptions do not conform to consensual (i.e., intersubjectively verifiable) experience, such as when the descriptions are faulty, incorrect, wrong, or inaccurate, and need to be replaced by more accurate descriptions, models, or theories.\n\nThe contradiction between the truths derived from intersubjective verification and beliefs based on faith or on appeal to authority (e.g., many religious beliefs) forms the basis for the conflict between religion and science. There have been attempts to bring the two into congruence, and the modern, cutting edge of science, especially in physics, seems to many observers to lend itself to a melding of religious experience and intersubjective verification of beliefs. Some scientists have described religious worldviews—generally of a mystical nature—consistent with their understanding of science:\n\nThere are two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle ...\n\nScience without religion is lame, religion without science is blind ...\n\nThe religion of the future will be a cosmic religion. The religion which is based on experience, which refuses dogmatism ...\n\nThere remains something subtle, intangible and inexplicable. Veneration for this force beyond anything that we can comprehend is my religion. (Albert Einstein)\n\nOther scientists, who are committed to basing belief on intersubjective verification, have called for or predicted the development of a religion consistent with science.\n\nA religion old or new, that stressed the magnificence of the universe as revealed by modern science, might be able to draw forth reserves of reverence and awe hardly tapped by the conventional faiths. Sooner or later, such a religion will emerge. (Carl Sagan, Pale Blue Dot)\n\nThe evolutionary epic is probably the best myth we will ever have ...\nThe true evolutionary epic, retold as poetry, is as intrinsically ennobling as any religious epic. (Edward O. Wilson)\n\nResponding to this apparent overlap between cutting edge science and mystical experience, in recent years, there have been overt efforts to formulate religious belief systems that are built on truth claims based upon intersubjective verifiability, e.g. Anthroposophy, Yoism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13617751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13617751", "title": "Jai Abberton", "text": "Jai Abberton\n\nJai Abberton (born \"ca\" 1973 in Maroubra, New South Wales), an Australian former professional surfer, is a member of the Australian surf group, the Bra Boys. He rose to local prominence in 2005, when he was charged but found not guilty of the 2003 murder of stand-over man, Anthony 'Tony' Hines. Despite Abberton admitting to shooting Hines, Abberton claimed that he had no choice as Hines was going to rape the girlfriend of Abberton, and kill them both. Abberton's defence was able to establish reasonable doubt of murder and that Hines was a violent man that employed standover tactics and was a rapist. It was alleged that the motivation for Hines' actions was a mistaken belief that Abberton had slept with Hines' wife, Rachel Gibbons.\n\nAbberton was convicted \"in absentia\" by Magistrate Linden and fined $533; prosecutors allege that Abberton was tasered three times in the course of the incident, which occurred at the Byron Bay police station, following Abberton handing himself to police following damage to a caravan and a domestic incident. The Court was also advised that Abberton was admitted to a mental health unit after this incident but has only recently been kicked out of a north coast NSW drug rehabilitation centre, Bennelong's Haven, after testing positive to having the narcotic, opiate, in his system.\n\nTogether with his brothers, Koby, Sunny, and Dakota, Jai Abberton achieved national and international attention in 2007 with the release of a feature-length documentary entitled \"\", written and directed by members of the Bra Boys.\n"}
{"id": "12343260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12343260", "title": "Janadesh 2007", "text": "Janadesh 2007\n\nJanadesh is the name of a national campaign on land rights in India launched by the movement Ekta Parishad. The word \"Janadesh\" means \"The Verdict of the People\" in Hindi. The campaign was launched in 2005 and culminated in 2007, in the form of a 350 km foot march involving 25,000 people. According to the organizers, the majority of the marchers were landless Adivasi and Dalit.\n\nAccording to Ekta Parishad the lack of secure land rights is a major contributor to rural poverty in India, and the government of India needs to undertake major land reforms to address this issue. The aim of the Janadesh campaign is to put pressure on the Indian government to undertake specific land reforms aimed at securing land rights for the poorest groups in India.\n\nAccording to a recent World Bank report poverty remains a significant problem in India, with India’s progress in reducing poverty compared with some of its Asian neighbors described as ‘modest’. According to the same report, poverty in India is most widespread in rural areas (where almost three out of four Indians live), and the highest incidence of poverty of all is found among the rural landless, 68% of whom are classed as living below the poverty line.\nThese findings are echoed in other reports on the subject. For example, Sundaram and Tendulkar found in a 2003 study of poverty in India that the highest levels of poverty were found among assetless (i.e. landless) rural households dependent on agricultural wage labor. Levels of poverty were found to be even higher among members of this group if they also belonged to either a Scheduled Tribe or Scheduled Caste.\nFurthermore, although at an overall percentage level rural poverty is decreasing in India, due to population growth the absolute number of people in rural areas below the poverty line is not decreasing.\n\nObviously there are differing viewpoints on what measures would be most effective to alleviate poverty among these groups. According to Ekta Parishad, the single most important measure that could be taken to reduce these levels of poverty would be to grant secure land rights to small pieces of land to landless peasants, reducing their dependence on casual wage labor and providing a measure of food security.\n\nThese views are supported by research in the area. For example, Hanstad, Brown, and Prosterman suggest based on research in Karnataka and West Bengal that providing amply-sized plots of land (these can be as small as 0.05-0.15 acres in size) gives substantial benefits to landless families at relatively low costs. These benefits include increased income, increased access to credit, and increased social status. They also note that based on the land costs in their Karnataka study, the cost of a program to distribute packages of land like this to the ten million poorest families in India would be approximately 3,330 million rupees spread over ten years. By contrast, the central government’s rural housing scheme has cost 15,360 million rupees per year over the past five years, whilst producing housing viewed as being of very low quality by the participants in this study. Hanstad, Brown and Prosterman also cite numerous other studies from around the world which have shown results similar to their own.\n\nIn Ekta Parishad's experience of campaigning across eight states in India they found that even having a land entitlement did not necessarily equate to possessing land. In fact they found that in around 50% of cases having a land entitlement had not led to possession of the land itself.\n\nThere are a number factors involved in creating this situation.\n\nFirstly, land records, which provide the basis for land ownership, are out of date in India. The Indian government is currently working to computerize land records to improve efficiency. However, a recent report by the Asian Development Bank pointed out that, more than computerizing records, correcting them should be the priority. They note that: \"It is a common observation in villages that the person in whose name land is recorded is either deceased or does not possess the land\".\n\nSecondly, according to a recent discussion paper produced by PACS, even if land records are up to date, they do not ensure security of possession. If the poor are dispossessed of their land the record of their possession itself is of little use – instead they have to go to court to establish their title. The process for establishing title is such that a wealthy opponent is able to prolong the process for years through higher courts of appeal, which the poor can ill afford. Thus the land record system is fundamentally anti-poor, and provides little protection against land grabs by wealthier land-owners. These land grabs take a variety of forms, from simple violent expulsion through to bribery of government or bank officials. It is often more than a simple question of the economic value of the land. R Srivastava argues that the landed are often not in favor of giving land to the landless since it increases their autonomy and ability to demand better wages. He also notes the wealthy landed often have substantial influence over politician and administrators at the state level.\n\nFinally, the national government has reserved for itself substantial powers of land acquisition through the ‘Land Acquisition Act’ of 1984. This permits the central government to acquire any area of land that it chooses if is in the ‘public interest’ to do so. However, the term ‘public interest’ is left undefined in this legislation, giving the government exceptionally broad powers to acquire land as and when it chooses.\n\nTaken all together, these factors combine to create a system of land ownership which provides little security for the rural poor.\n\nBased on this view of current land legislation Ekta Parishad argue that it is only through legislative action at a national level that lasting change can be achieved. Although campaigns at state level have resulted in a number of successes in terms of distributing land to the landless, there need to be major changes at the national level to create a system of land rights that protects the rights of the poor and ensures that they can actually benefit from their land.\n\nThe Janadesh campaign is seen as a means of connecting the numerous local campaigns which they are involved in into a single national campaign large enough to pressure the government into taking action.\n\nThe Janadesh 2007 campaign will culminate with a foot march by 25,000 people, mainly landless Adivasis and Dalits. The route of the march will be from Gwalior to Delhi in northern India, following the main highway (a distance of approximately 350 km). The march will set out from Gwalior on 2 October 2007 and will arrive in Delhi on 28 October 2007. This will be an act of mass non-violent civil disobedience in the tradition of Gandhi. According to Ekta Parishad, it will be the largest such action since the struggle for Indian independence.\n\nThe campaign has three specific demands around land reform. These are:\n\n\nThe Janadesh 2007 campaign is being organized by Ekta Parishad, an organization that was formally established in 1990. According to its founder, Puthan Veetil Rajagopal, Ekta Parishad is not an NGO or a political party. It is instead a people’s movement, which works at the grass-roots level to mobilize people to challenge corruption and exploitation.\nQuoted in the book \"Truth Force\" Rajagopal states this aim: \"What I am trying to do, through Ekta Parishad, is to help people to understand that they can be leaders of the country\". Ekta Parishad are particularly focused on land and livelihood issues amongst marginalized communities (such as Dalits and Adivasis) in rural India and are active in eight Indian states (Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala), and in direct contact with around 4000 villages.\n\nThere are two main components to Ekta Parishad’s work – the struggle component and constructive work.\n\nThe struggle component involves mobilizing people to take part in various forms of non-violent resistance such as Padyatras (foot marches), Dharnas (sit-ins), Gheraos (preventing unjust incidents from taking place by encircling people who wield power), and Chakka jam (road blockades) to press for their land rights. This is based on the Gandhian tradition of non-violent resistance.\n\nThe constructive work focuses on running economic and development activities alongside the land rights struggle, with the intention of allowing villages that have gained land to become economically self-sufficient. These activities include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34274080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34274080", "title": "Joann Aalfs", "text": "Joann Aalfs\n\nJoann Aalfs (born March 29, 1923) is an American women's rights and LGBT rights activist.\n\nJoann Aalfs was born in 1923 in St. Paul, Minnesota. She graduated from Bennington College in 1945, before studying at Union Theological Seminary in New York City. There, she served alongside her then husband in various Presbyterian ministries, in areas such as Salem, New York and Kasur, Pakistan in 1951–1952. Aalfs began, in 1963, organizing political rallies and social events with women in New Bedford, Massachusetts. At a local YWCA they founded the Women's Awareness Group, alongside a newsletter called \"Rough Draft,\" which told the stories of the women within the organization. She would proceed to work with the New Bedford Women's Center in 1972, Women and Violence from 1976 to 1977, and the Southeastern Massachusetts University Women's Center from 1972 to 1978.\n\nIn 1980, Aalfs left her abusive marriage and sought shelter at the Battered Women's Shelter in Springfield, Massachusetts. She has four children, including activist Janet Aalfs.\n\nBy 2004, Aalfs had come out of the closet as a lesbian and had begun organising to help other lesbians in New Bedford, Massachusetts and Northampton, Massachusetts. Her personal archives are in the collection of the Sophia Smith Collection at Smith College.\n"}
{"id": "9625641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9625641", "title": "Joshua Perper", "text": "Joshua Perper\n\nJoshua Perper (born December 17, 1932 in Romania) is a noted forensic pathologist and toxicologist. He served as the Chief Medical Examiner of Broward County, Florida for seventeen years, during which time he conducted autopsies on a number of famous individuals, including Anna Nicole Smith. Prior to his appointment to that position, he served as Allegheny County's Coroner serving metro Pittsburgh.\n\nPerper was born in Bacău, Romania and he escaped the Nazis during World War II and, following the war, the Russians. At the age of 18, moved to Israel, graduating from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem Faculty of Medicine (medical school) in 1960 and Faculty of Law (law school) in 1966. In 1969, he finished post graduate studies in forensic pathology at Johns Hopkins University. He served as Associate Medical Examiner, Senior Research Fellow and then Chief Medical Examiner in Baltimore, Maryland from 1969 to 1971. Between 1971 and 1994, while living in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Perper was a toxicologist and then Chief Forensic Pathologist in the Allegheny County Coroner's Office (now called the Medical Examiner's Office), serving under Cyril Wecht.\n\nIn 1980, Wecht was elected to the Allegheny County Board of Commissioners. Wecht did not resign as Coroner until January 9, two days after his swearing-in as Commissioner, as the law did not prohibit him from holding both the offices of Coroner and Commissioner. He resigned under pressure from a variety of sources, including his predecessor as coroner, Ralph Stalter, a Republican, and the administration of Governor Dick Thornburgh, also a Republican. Wecht initially recommended that Perper succeed him, and indeed Perper held the title of Acting Coroner until Thornburgh appointed Sanford Edburg to succeed Wecht. While Perper initially rejected the appointment as unconstitutional, the State Supreme Court upheld Thornburgh's right to appoint Edberg, who duly took over the office of Coroner on March 2, 1981. The transition was not met without a brief physical altercation between the two men. Perper would return to the Coroner's office in January 1982, after he defeated Edberg in the fall 1981 general election.\n\nIn February 1991, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to name Perper the County's new Chief Medical Examiner. While Perper initially accepted the posting, he backed-out of the job two months before he was to begin his duties. Perper cited a variety of reasons behind his decision, including the economic–media reports indicated Perper and his wife, a real estate agent, believed they could not afford the kind of home to which they had become accustomed–and the emotional–Perper's wife also did not want to leave behind the couple's friends.\n\nHe would therefore remain Allegheny County Coroner for another three years.\n\nPerper did resign as Allegheny County Coroner in 1994, after he was appointed Chief Medical Examiner of Broward County, Florida by Governor Lawton Chiles.\n\nPerper performed the autopsy on Krissy Taylor, the 17-year-old model who died of bronchial asthma in 1995, after collapsing in her parents' home. Krissy was the younger sister of model Niki Taylor.\n\nPerper performed the autopsy of Steve Bechler after the pitcher's death on February 17, 2003. According to Perper:\n\"It is my professional opinion that the toxicity of ephedra played a significant role in the death of Mr. Bechler, although it's impossible to define mathematically the contribution of each one of the factors in his unfortunate death due to heatstroke.\"\n\nDuring the investigation Perper interviewed Bechler's family. He found that Bechler was overweight, out of shape, was not yet accustomed to the warm and humid weather in South Florida, was on a primarily liquid or semi-liquid diet, did not feel well or eat the night before he collapsed and had high blood pressure, was using Xenadrine and had abnormal liver functions.\n\nPepper oversaw as Gertrude M. Juste and Stephen Cina examined and autopsied the body of Anna Nicole Smith. He also had significant involvement in the hearing deciding the fate of her body and has made numerous TV appearances on Nancy Grace and various other shows in relation to this. He revealed his findings that her death was due to an accidental lethal combination of therapeutic levels of 3 benzodiazepines and chloral hydrate. Chloral hydrate was believed to be the major contributing factor. An infection in her left buttock was also a contributory factor. After reviewing evidence in collaboration with legal authorities, he judged the death \"accidental\" and not suicide or homicide, or death by natural causes.\n\nIn September 2011, Governor Rick Scott announced he would not reappoint Perper to another three-year term as Chief Medical Examiner. Perper expressed surprise at the decision, and subsequently announced his intention to resign at the end of October of that year, and enter retirement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17339278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17339278", "title": "Karel Aalbers", "text": "Karel Aalbers\n\nKarel Aalbers (born June 28, 1949, Velp) was the President of the football club Vitesse Arnhem (Arnhem, the Netherlands) from 1984 until February 2000.\n\nAalbers' goal was to bring Vitesse from the bottom of the Second League (Eerste divisie, now Keuken Kampioen Divisie), where the club was when he\nstarted, to the top 40 soccer clubs of Europe.\n\nHe developed the basic idea for the ‘Gelredome’, a stadium with a sliding pitch that can be moved out of the building. Later, the same system was applied in Gelsenkirchen (Schalke 04) and in Japan. Events such as pop concerts can be held without damaging the grass. Gelredome opened in 1998. It has a roof that can be opened and closed. It is fully climate controlled as well. In the first season after the opening, Gelredome's attendance rose to 20,000, (from less than 8,000 in the old stadium.)\n\nHe financed the ambitions by making solid profits on the transfer market. Players such as Roy Makaay, Sander Westerveld, Nikos Machlas, Glenn Helder and Philip Cocu were sold for large sums of money. Others came to occupy empty player positions, such as Mahamadou Diarra and Pierre van Hooijdonk.\n\nVitesse ranked top 4 positions, made profit and showed a solid balance sheet in the final years of his presidency.\n\nAalbers resigned on February 15, 2000, after the main sponsor, Nuon, threatened to pull the plug if he did not. Nuon, as a public utility\ncompany, owned by local authorities, had trouble explaining why it invested heavily in Aalbers' ambitious plans.\n\nHis successor was Jan Koning (former chief of Sara Lee/DE who resigned after 4 month). In a short period of time, Vitesse began to show negative financial results, due to poor deals on the transfer market. The club survived numerous financial crises, such as the last one in 2008, when debts were bought of, under the threat of bankruptcy.\n\nAalbers is currently a marketing expert and consultant in city and stadium development. He acts as a matchmaker in international projects. He and his wife live in Eerbeek.\n"}
{"id": "39611536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39611536", "title": "Lesley Cantwell", "text": "Lesley Cantwell\n\nLesley Judith Cantwell (22 February 1987 – 7 June 2013) was a New Zealand racewalker. Cantwell won the gold medal in the women's 5000 m road walk at the 2013 Oceania Athletics Championships in Tahiti on 4 June 2013. While waiting for the medal ceremony, she felt unwell and collapsed. She was taken to a local hospital where she died three days later.\n\nShe died on 7 June 2013, aged 26, from a suspected subarachnoid hemorrhage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2837809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2837809", "title": "Life Against Death", "text": "Life Against Death\n\nLife Against Death: The Psychoanalytical Meaning of History (1959; second edition 1985) is a book by the American classicist Norman O. Brown, in which the author offers a radical analysis and critique of the work of Sigmund Freud, tries to provide a theoretical rationale for a nonrepressive civilization, explores parallels between psychoanalysis and Martin Luther's theology, and draws on revolutionary themes in western religious thought, especially the body mysticism of Jakob Böhme and William Blake. It was the result of an interest in psychoanalysis that began when the philosopher Herbert Marcuse suggested to Brown that he should read Freud.\n\nThe book became famous when Norman Podhoretz recommended it to the critic Lionel Trilling, and over fifty-thousand copies had been sold by 1966. It has been compared to works such as Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\" (1955) and the philosopher Michel Foucault's \"Madness and Civilization\" (1961), and Brown's objectives have been seen as being the same as Foucault's. Though \"Life Against Death\" has been called one of the great nonfiction works of the 20th century, some critics have found it of lesser weight than \"Eros and Civilization\", and Brown has been criticized for misinterpreting Freud's theories. It has been suggested that, despite his objectives, Brown's arguments imply that sexual repression is biologically inevitable. Brown later called parts of \"Life Against Death\" \"quite immature\" and wrote of his \"Love's Body\" (1966) that it was written to confuse any followers he acquired due to the book and destroy its positions.\n\nBrown, whose background was in classical studies, became interested in psychoanalysis because of Herbert Marcuse, a philosopher associated with the Institute for Social Research based in Frankfurt. Marcuse had little direct concern with Freud while in Frankfurt, but devoted more attention to psychoanalysis in the 1950s, and in 1953 suggested to Brown that he should read Freud.\n\nSeeking a passage to a \"post-Marxist world\", Brown began his turn to psychoanalysis partly because he had become disenchanted with politics after the failure of Henry Wallace's 1948 Presidential candidacy. In \"Life Against Death\", Brown wrote that he had begun a careful study of Freud in 1953, because he felt the need to reconsider both human nature and the human race's future prospects. Commenting that he had inherited from Protestantism a conscience which dictated that intellectual work should be directed toward ending or minimizing human suffering, Brown addressed the book to everyone ready to consider new ideas and possibilities. Brown proposed a synthesis of psychoanalysis, anthropology, and history, calling the analyst Géza Róheim's efforts in that direction pioneer work of significance second only to Freud's. Brown also commended Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\" (1955) as, \"the first book, after Wilhelm Reich's ill-fated adventures, to reopen the possibility of the abolition of repression.\"\n\nRadicals such as Reich and Róheim represented a minority current of opinion within psychoanalysis, which by the 1940s was viewed as fundamentally conservative by the European and American intellectual community. Critics outside the psychoanalytic movement agreed in seeing Freud as a conservative. The left-wing writer Erich Fromm had argued that several aspects of psychoanalytic theory served the interests of political reaction in his \"The Fear of Freedom\" (1942), an assessment confirmed by sympathetic writers on the right. Philip Rieff, in \"\" (1959), portrayed Freud as a man who admirably urged men to make the best of an inevitably unhappy fate.\n\nIn the 1950s, Marcuse and Brown, along with Trilling in \"Freud and the Crisis of Our Culture\" (1955), challenged this interpretation of Freud. They believed that Freud showed that a high price has been paid for civilization, and that Freud's critical element was to be found in his late metahistorical studies, works considered unscientific by orthodox analysts and reactionary by the neo-Freudians. Marcuse and Brown shared a similar general outlook and devoted the most attention to the same Freudian concepts. They saw Freud's greatness in his metahistorical analysis of \"the general neurosis of mankind\", argued that modern man is sick with the burdens of sexual repression and uncontrolled aggression, attempted to make explicit the hidden critical trend in psychoanalysis that promised a nonrepressive civilization as a solution to the dilemma of modern unhappiness, and accepted the most radical and discouraging of Freud's psychological assumptions: the pervasive role of sexuality and the existence of the death instinct. Brown, unlike Marcuse, had strong mystical inclinations and drew on revolutionary themes in western religious thought, especially the body mysticism of Böhme and Blake.\n\nBrown offers an analysis of the problems associated with sexuality and human mortality, and solutions to them. Brown expounded \"the underlying ambivalence of Freud's late instinctual dualism\", in which \"Eros and Death were seen as antagonistic psychological principles which constantly threatened to collapse into one another.\" However, Brown stressed their underlying unity, since this approach suggested a way of escaping Freud's conclusion that aggression was inevitable. Brown argued that Freud did not consider aggression a basic psychological fact, but rather a secondary manifestation of a more fundamental instinctual force, the death instinct: it was \"the external expression of an impulse originally directed against the self\". In Brown's interpretation of Freud, aggression becomes a problem \"because Eros could carry out its project of creating life only when the death instinct was frustrated in its original enterprise. In order that men might live (and love), they were inevitably forced to destroy, to direct the energies of the death instinct away from themselves onto their fellowmen.\"\n\nFreud's analysis of the dynamics of Life and Death was mistaken, according to Brown, since Freud's discovery of the ultimate identity of the two instincts implied that there is no necessary antagonism between Eros and Thanatos: they exist in harmony at a deeper level of psychic life and aggression was therefore not inevitable. Brown believed that the death instinct need not be externalized in the form of aggression if \"men could recapture the original undifferentiated harmony of Life and Death.\" Brown therefore called for an end to the \"repression of death\" that perpetuated aggression. People had to learn \"how to die\" or, more concretely, to learn \"how to grow old.\" Brown's argument is a psychological solution that involved adopting a new attitude toward death and did not involve political or economic revolution. Brown criticized Reich for \"misrepresenting the problem of repression as one of genital sexuality\" and advocated polymorphous perversity instead.\nBrown concluded that if undifferentiated sexuality is the ultimate measure of human happiness, then any form of sexual organization is already repressive. Brown maintained that the pregenital organizations were \"just as tyrannical as adult sexuality\" and that the earlier organization of libidinal energy into oral, anal, phallic syndromes was \"as foreign to the undifferentiated eroticism of early infancy\" as genital sexuality. In a truly nonrepressive civilization, \"sexuality would be completely undifferentiated\" and even the distinction between the sexes would become insignificant.\n\nBrown did not accept Freud's theory of an innate biological dynamic leading from undifferentiated sexuality to adult genitality, and suggested instead that the explanation of how mankind abandoned the \"primeval happiness\" of polymorphous perversity was to be found through an analysis of social history. Brown explained repressive differentiation in terms of Freud's revised theory of anxiety, according to which anxiety produces repression rather than the reverse. Brown, like Róheim, saw the basic form of anxiety as separation anxiety, and also identified separation with death, a breakdown of the union of mother and child that he saw as \"the essence of life.\" Brown maintained that anxiety can be identified with separation, and that separation causes anxiety because the union between mother and child had been so long and lovingly indulged.\n\nChildren respond to the anxiety caused by separation through various projects to reestablish the original unity, projects Brown identified as \"flights from death\". These projects involve various organizations of the libido that Brown characterizes as repressive and which required abandoning the polymorphous perversity of earliest infancy. Examples are the oral project, in which children try to overcome separation through \"the hypercathexis of the act of sucking\", reuniting themselves with their mothers through the mouth (and in fantasy, ingesting them entirely), the anal project, in which children engage in \"symbolic manipulation of feces as a magic instrument for restoring communion with the mother\", and the phallic project, which is the attempt to reunite with the mother through the penis, identified with the entire body. These projects all involve reorganization of the libidinal economy, transferring sexual energy from the entire body to particular organs, and in all of them repression is self-imposed. The differentiation of sexuality occurs not because of an external force such as social or economic exigency, but because of \"self-repression.\"\n\nBrown praised \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" (1899) as one of the great applications and extensions of the Socratic axiom \"know thyself\", but criticized \"Totem and Taboo\" (1913), writing that in that work Freud correlates psycho-sexual stages of development with stages of history, thereby seeing history as a \"process of growing up\". Brown saw that view as a \"residue of eighteenth-century optimism and rationalism\" and considered it inadequate as both history and psychoanalysis. He credited the philosopher Stuart Hampshire with providing an acute comparison between Freud and the philosopher Baruch Spinoza in \"Spinoza\" (1951), but wrote that Hampshire fails to recognize important differences between the two, such as Freud's dualism. Brown argues that Luther's personality was based partly upon anal fantasies and that Luther achieved some of his spiritual breakthroughs while defecating. Brown suggests numerous similarities between Lutheran Protestantism and psychoanalysis. He also provides a study of Jonathan Swift, in which he denounces attempts to conceal Swift's interest in scatology and \"housebreak this tiger of English literature.\" He criticizes Aldous Huxley and John Middleton Murry for their treatment of Swift. While giving them credit for calling attention to Swift's \"hatred of the bowels\", he deplores their reduction of the theme to Swift's personal psychopathology and failure to see that Swift was calling attention to something significant. Brown advocates \"dialectical consciousness\" as a step toward the creation of a \"Dionysian ego\".\n\n\"Life Against Death\" was first published in the United States by Wesleyan University Press in 1959. In 1959, the book was published in the United Kingdom by Routledge and Kegan Paul. Sphere Books published editions in 1968 and 1970. In 1985, the book was published in a second edition with an introduction by the historian Christopher Lasch.\n\n\"Life Against Death\" received a positive review from Susan Sontag in \"The Supplement\" to the \"Columbia Spectator\", and was also reviewed by the philosopher Frank Meyer in \"National Review\", and discussed by Loren Baritz in \"The Nation\", the sociologist Edgar Z. Friedenberg in \"The New York Times Book Review\", Ralph Flores in \"Library Journal\", the political scientist Alan Wolfe in \"The New Republic\", Charles Peck in \"Across the Board\", the art critic Roger Kimball in \"The New Criterion\", the critic Camille Paglia in \"Salon\", the critic George Scialabba in \"Bookforum\", and in \"Time\" magazine and \"Yale - Theatre\".\n\nSontag, in a 1961 review later republished in \"Against Interpretation\" (1966), wrote that \"Life Against Death\" and \"Eros and Civilization\" represented a \"new seriousness about Freudian ideas\" and exposed most previous writing on Freud in the United States as irrelevant or superficial. She praised Brown for his boldness in discussing fundamental problems \"about the hypocrisy of our culture, about art, money, religion, work, about sex and the motives of the body\", and considered his work an advance in understanding \"the revolutionary implications of sexuality in contemporary society.\" She credited Brown with showing that Freud's \"psychological categories\" are \"political categories\" and that \"psychological categories are also bodily categories\", with carefully pointing out the limits of Freud's thought, and with providing \"an analysis of the whole range of Freudian theory, a theory of instinct and culture, and a set of historical case studies.\" Though she considered Brown's \"commitment to Protestantism as the herald of a culture which has transcended sublimation ... historically dubious\", she wrote that by placing his ideas in the framework of Christian eschatology Brown raised issues of great importance and opened the possibility of a \"psychoanalytic theory of history which does not simply reduce cultural history to the psychology of individuals\", working out an original point of view that was simultaneously historical and psychological, and forcing a reconsideration of the meaning of eschatology. She concluded that, \"The highest praise one can give to Brown's book is that, apart from its all-important attempt to penetrate and further the insights of Freud, it is the first major attempt to forumulate an eschatology of immanence in the seventy years since Nietzsche.\" \n\nBaritz described \"Life Against Death\" as a good example of \"metahistory\". Friedenberg, reviewing Michel Foucault's \"Madness and Civilization\" (1961), noted that it shared a \"kinship in mood if not in tone or method\" to \"Life Against Death\" and its \"strident paean to the primal id.\" Flores credited John O. King with showing that \"Life Against Death\", \"in its very recommendation of play (as an article of faith), fits into the ascetic schema it would deny.\" Peck described \"Life Against Death\" as \"arguably one of the significant books of the second half of the century.\" Kimball described the book as a \"dense, learned academic tract that blends Freud, Marx, idealist philosophy, and mysticism East and West in a preposterous but intoxicating brew.\" He wrote that Brown had a gift for \"infusing mystic pronouncements with a radical, anti-bourgeois animus and a febrile erotic charge\" and that his work was \"tremendous hit on American campuses, where the homeless radicalism of irresponsible affluence made all manner of utopian schemes seem attractive.\" Kimball wrote that Brown's views parallel those of Marcuse, despite the difference of tone between the two thinkers. He dismissed the ideas of both Brown and Marcuse as false and harmful.\n\nPaglia, discussing her intellectual development, observed that Marshall McLuhan's \"\" (1964) was published the year she entered college, while Brown's \"Life Against Death\" and the critic Leslie Fiedler's \"Love and Death in the American Novel\" had been published five years earlier. Paglia wrote of Brown, McLuhan and Fiedler, that, \"They understood the creative imagination, and they extended their insights into speculation about history and society. Their influence was positive and fruitful: They did not impose their system on acolytes but liberated a whole generation of students to think freely and to discover their own voices.\" Paglia proposed their work as an alternative to that of the philosophers Jacques Derrida and Foucault, and the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan, which she dismissed as irrelevant to American culture. She called \"Life Against Death\" \"one of the great nonfiction works of the 20th century\" and \"what Michel Foucault longed to achieve but never did.\" Scialabba called the book \"rewardingly adventurous\".\n\n\"Time\" wrote that \"Life Against Death\" was \"largely ignored by both critics and the public\". However, it added that following the publication of \"Love's Body\" (1966), some important critics belatedly reviewed \"Life Against Death\" and \"The Observer\" placed it \"on two outstanding-books lists.\" According to \"Time\", there were more than fifty-thousand copies of \"Life Against Death\" in print as of 1966, and the book, like the sociologist David Riesman's \"The Lonely Crowd\" (1950) and the fantasy writer J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" (1954–1955), had become \"one of the underground books that undergraduates feel they must read to be with it\". \"Time\" also described the book as \"an undergraduate's delight\".\n\nIn 1959, \"Life Against Death\" received notices in \"The Journal of Analytical Psychology\" and the \"American Journal of Sociology\". In \"The Journal of Social Psychology\", the book received a notice in 1959 and another notice in 1960. The book was also discussed by the sociologist Robert Neelly Bellah in \"Sociological Inquiry\", the psychoanalyst Nancy Chodorow in \"Theory & Society\", Alan W. Dyer in the \"Journal of Economic Issues\", Michael Beard in \"Edebiyat: Journal of Middle Eastern Literatures\", Christopher Shultis in \"Perspectives of New Music\", Matthew Day in \"Method & Theory in the Study of Religion\", Basit Kareem Iqbal in \"Islam & Science\", Nigel Dodd in the \"Journal of Classical Sociology\", and R. R. Reno in \"First Things\".\n\nChodorow credited Brown and Marcuse with providing the most important expression of a view that accepts drive theory and maintains that theories such as Neo-Freudianism and ego psychology undermine \"psychoanalytic insight into the drives, repression, and the unconscious.\" Though she found their views \"powerful and at times attractive\", she questioned their interpretations of Freud. She argued that their social theories are a \"radical individualist\" view that sees social relations an unnecessary form of constraint, that they failed to explain how social bonds and political activity are possible, that their theories involve a \"problematic view of women, gender relations, and generation\", that their use of primary narcissism as a model for union with others \"maintains a focus on individual gratification and denies gratification and selfhood to the other\", and that they both \"conflate the clinical as a source of evidence for theory with the therapeutic as a goal of psychoanalysis\", with Brown being less guilty of this than Marcuse. However, she maintained that the work of Marcuse and Brown nevertheless helped suggest \"a more consistent and persuasive psychoanalytic social theory and vision of social possibility.\" Addressing the specific problems of Brown's work, she argued that there are internal contradictions within \"Life Against Death\", as well as contradictions between that work and \"Love's Body\", that Brown's assertion that the infant's desire to avoid separation is a refusal to face death is a metaphorical claim that \"brings irrelevant instinctual considerations into a clearly object-related and ego experience\", and that despite giving theoretical primacy to drives Brown \"can often be read as starting from a theory of relationship, with instincts tacked on.\" Though she credited Brown with providing a dual account of drives and object relations, she wrote that he \"consistently underplays this component of his work\" in \"Life Against Death\".\n\nBeard wrote that \"Life Against Death\", with its \"apocalyptic companion\" \"Eros and Civilization\", \"provided one of the most influential blueprints for radical thinking in the decade which followed.\" Though considering Brown's discussion of \"the psychoanalytic dimensions of the Reformation\" important, he wrote that \"it was never clear how to follow up on them\". He suggested that while Brown had influenced many students, he had no true successor, and described the methods Brown used in \"Life Against Death\" as unpromising for the study of the Middle East. Shultis and Iqbal both described the book as \"famous\". Dodd credited Brown with making a distinctive and original contribution to \"the sociological and philosophical understanding of money, credit and debt\".\n\nReno described \"Life Against Death\" as an \"ambitious\" and \"speculative\" work that, along with \"Love's Body\" (1966), \"gave theoretical expression to the counterculture of the 1960s\". He called Brown's \"decision to make desire his redemptive principle was a stroke of genius.\" Though he considered Brown \"easy to make fun of\", and wrote that Brown's appeals to the \"dialectical metaphysics of hope\" can sound \"hopelessly jejune\" and that his \"Dionysian ecstasies\" were overwrought, he credited Brown with a \"mobile metaphysical imagination\" that \"allowed him to recognize the larger implications of modern, naturalistic conceptions of culture\" and drawing the \"obvious conclusions in bold, prophetic strokes\". Though Reno doubted that Foucault read Brown, he wrote that Foucault's \"intellectual life was devoted to detailed studies of cultural norms oriented toward the very same goal\".\n\nThe Situationist writer Raoul Vaneigem, writing in \"The Revolution of Everyday Life\" (1967), credited Brown with showing how Eros, understood as essentially narcissistic, can lead to union with beings in the world. The journalist Raymond de Becker, noting that Brown was carrying Freud's ideas to the extreme, dismissed his theories as speculation.\n\nPaul Robinson credited Brown and Marcuse with systematically analyzing psychoanalytic theory in order to reveal its critical implications and of going beyond Reich and Róheim in probing the dialectical subtleties of Freud's thought, thereby reaching conclusions more extreme and utopian than theirs. He found Trilling's work on Freud of lesser value. Robinson saw Brown's exploration of the radical implications of psychoanalysis as in some ways more rigorous and systematic than that of Marcuse. He noted that \"Life Against Death\" and \"Eros and Civilization\" have often been compared, but found Brown's book more elegantly written, attributing this to Brown having a background in literature and the classics rather than philosophy and political theory. Yet while admiring the rigor and imagination of Brown's arguments, he believed that his analysis of the genesis of sexual differentiation unwittingly subverts its purpose of showing that a nonrepressive organization of sexual life is possible. Robinson argued that if tyrannical sexual organizations result from inability to accept separation or death, and if this flight from separation is in turn based on the fact of prolonged infantile dependence, then sexual repression is a biological inevitability. Brown thus, despite his objectives, offers \"a counsel of despair\", since his analysis of sexual repression fails to offer a theoretical rationale for a nonrepressive civilization. Brown was unable to either explain the historical rise of repressive civilization or to provide a solution to the problems of modern living. Robinson believed that while Brown's work is psychologically more radical than that of Marcuse, it is politically more timid, and failed to transform psychoanalytic theory into historical and political categories. He deemed Marcuse a finer theorist who provided a more substantial treatment of Freud. He also found the subtitle of \"Life Against Death\", \"the Psychoanalytical Meaning of History\", to be \"pompous and misleading\".\n\nThe gay rights activist Dennis Altman, although influenced by \"Life Against Death\", criticized aspects of the book, writing that, \"There is a danger in Brown of the realities of the body dissolving into metaphysical flights, so that his concept of polymorphous perversity becomes ultimately an asexual one and he seems to envisage this not as a move to expand sexuality from its obsessive genitality but rather as the total supplanting of that genitality.\" The social psychologist Liam Hudson described \"Life Against Death\" as a \"strange, fertile work\" that presaged a collapse of the popular \"infatuation with hard science\". Writing in 1972, Hudson commented that while Brown's book was neglected when first published, it was \"now being read by psychologists with close attention\". He suggested that the book was neglected by radicals because its publication coincided with that of \"Eros and Civilization\". Comparing the two works, he found \"Eros and Civilization\" more reductively political and therefore less stimulating than \"Life Against Death\". The critic Frederick Crews wrote that Brown's work was \"a disservice to the important cause of applied psychoanalysis\" and that Brown had become the center of a \"cult\" among literary humanists that needed to be challenged. He maintained that, despite Trilling's praise of \"Life Against Death\", Brown was an unreliable interpreter of psychoanalysis. The journalist Jerry Hopkins and the music manager Danny Sugerman, writing in \"No One Here Gets Out Alive\" (1980), identified \"Life Against Death\" as an influence on singer Jim Morrison.\n\nThe psychoanalyst Joel Kovel found \"Life Against Death\" similar to \"Eros and Civilization\", but considered it less successful.\n\nThe historian Russell Jacoby called \"Life Against Death\" one of the boldest efforts to revitalize psychoanalysis, but believed that the work failed to \"disturb its theoretical sleep.\" The psychotherapist Myron Sharaf criticized Brown for misinterpreting Reich, writing that while Brown presents Reich's view as being that the pregenital stages would disappear if full genitality were established, Reich actually believed that society represses both pregenital and genital sexuality, leading to the failure of some persons to reach the genital level and the vulnerability of others to regress to pregenital levels. Reich's view, according to Sharaf, was that given full genital expression, pregenital impulses and conflicts do not disappear but simply lose their significance and their power to disrupt healthy genitality. The critic Edward W. Said wrote that \"Life Against Death\" was a vanguard book at the time of its publication. Lasch, in his introduction to the second edition of \"Life Against Death\", described the book as \"important and valuable\". He considered Brown's chapter on Swift the strongest part of the book, calling it \"tough, learned, witty, and inventive\". He endorsed Brown's criticism of psychoanalytic critics of Swift such as Huxley and Murry, and suggested that Brown's work was in some ways superior to that of Marcuse. He credited Brown with having grasped the importance of Freud's concept of the death instinct. However, he found Brown's proposed solutions to human problems unconvincing, writing that, \"We would do better to see our subjection to time as a source of moral insight as well as a limitation.\" He argued that Brown sometimes confused Eros with Thanatos, or \"simply inverts them\", and should have identified Freud's \"Nirvana principle\" with Thanatos rather than Eros.\n\nThe philosopher José Guilherme Merquior, writing in \"Foucault\" (1985), compared \"Life Against Death\" to Foucault's \"Madness and Civilization\", describing them as similar calls \"for the liberation of the Dionysian id.\" However, he suggested that Foucault probably would not have acknowledged a resemblance between his views and Brown's. The political scientist Jeffrey B. Abramson credited Brown with providing the only account of preambivalence that highlights \"the Freudian concept of identification and its significance as a desire to be at one with another person.\" However, he criticizes Brown for \"seeking to achieve a final state of satisfaction that would end the self to be satisfied\", a conclusion that he considers \"nihilistic\" and close to the views of Spinoza. Abramson attempted to follow Brown's reading of Freud, while avoiding Brown's eschatological approach. He grouped Brown's work with Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\", Rieff's \"Freud: The Mind of the Moralist\", Paul Ricœur's \"Freud and Philosophy\" (1965), and Jürgen Habermas's \"Knowledge and Human Interests\" (1968), arguing that they jointly placed Freud at the center of moral and philosophical inquiry.\n\nThe philosopher Roger Scruton, writing in \"Sexual Desire\" (1986), criticized Brown, describing his proposals for sexual liberation, like those of Marcuse in \"Eros and Civilization\", as \"another expression of the alienation\" he condemned and an attempt to \"dress up the outlook of the alienated individual in the attributes of virtue.\" Stephen Frosh found \"Life Against Death\" and \"Eros and Civilization\" to be among the most important advances towards a psychoanalytic theory of art and culture, although he finds the way these works turn the internal psychological process of repression into a model for social existence as a whole to be disputable. The poet and cultural critic Wayne Koestenbaum criticized Brown for affirming the anus as \"a bodily and symbolic zone\" while ignoring its connection to sodomy and homosexual desire. Koestenbaum, unlike Brown, believes that to privilege the anus is to \"admit the desirability of male homosexual relations.\" Kovel identified \"Life Against Death\", along with \"Eros and Civilization\", as models for his \"History and Spirit\" (1991), noting that he encountered them at a time when his ambitions as a psychoanalyst and his political hopes were in conflict. Kovel believed that Marcuse and Brown's place in history is uncertain, but nevertheless writes that they gave him the hope that psychoanalysis could be turned away from a narrow clinical orthodoxy and toward emancipatory purposes. He saw the main difference between Marcuse and Brown as being that the former remained a historical materialist with a political emphasis, while Brown became an apolitical idealist.\n\nPaglia identified \"Life Against Death\" as an influence on her work of literary criticism \"Sexual Personae\" (1990), writing that Brown's work, along with that of Allen Ginsberg, Leslie Fiedler, and Harold Bloom, provided her with an alternative to the New Criticism, which she sees as insupportable because of its exclusion of history and psychoanalysis. Paglia believed that in \"Life Against Death\" and \"Love's Body\", \"the deeply learned and classically trained Brown made an unsurpassed fusion of literature, philosophy, psychoanalysis, history, and politics.\" Paglia credited Brown's books with making a major impact on American culture in the 1960s, writing that along with Arnold Hauser's \"The Social History of Art\" (1951) they helped her to see Foucault as foolish. Paglia lamented, however, that, \"my generation was condemned to live out what was only imagined by the older Norman O. Brown\", noting that the excesses of the 1960s lead many people to disaster.\n\nThe critic Diana Trilling, writing in 1993, commented that while \"Life Against Death\" was a \"central document of the unruly sixties\", it was \"now little remembered\". According to her, Lionel Trilling, though considering Brown's work important, never agreed with Brown's criticisms of traditional moral ideas or advocacy of polymorphous perversity, and their psychoanalyst friends ignored Brown's critique of civilization. Richard Webster, writing in \"Why Freud Was Wrong\" (1995), found \"Life Against Death\" to resemble the psychoanalyst Erik Erikson's \"Young Man Luther\" (1958) in the similarities it suggests between Lutheran Protestantism and classical psychoanalysis. Though agreeing that there are similarities between the two, he wrote that while Protestants may be comforted by the discovery that the revealed truths perceived by Luther are in harmony with Freud's hypotheses, others may regard such a \"congruence of ancient faith and modern reason\" with scepticism and \"ask to what extent we should regard psychoanalysis not as a scientific approach to human nature but as a disguised continuation of the Judaeo-Christian tradition.\" Webster described Brown's work, like that of Marcuse, Lacan, and several other modern thinkers, as \"a doomed and tragic attempt to reconstruct at the level of the intellect a sensual identity which has been crucified at the level of the spontaneous and vital body.\"\n\nThe historian Arthur Marwick dismissed \"Life Against Death\" as, \"a curious ragbag of quotations\". Norman Podhoretz wrote that the book became famous partly because Podhoretz recommended it to Trilling, who produced \"a favorable review of this central text of the nascent cultural radicalism toward which he was in general antagonistic and which - with Mailer, Brown, and me in mind - he would dryly characterize as 'the Norman invasion.'\" The philosopher Todd Dufresne compared \"Life Against Death\" to Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\" and Paul Goodman's \"Growing Up Absurd\" (1960) and noted that its sales figures reflected its influence: over fifty-thousand copies had been sold by 1966. Dufresne described the book as idiosyncratic and questionable. He questioned to what extent its readers actually understood the work, suggesting that many student activists might have shared the view of Morris Dickstein, to whom it meant, \"not some ontological breakthrough for human nature, but probably just plain fucking, lots of it\". The essayist Jay Cantor described \"Life Against Death\" and \"Eros and Civilization\" as \"equally profound\".\n\nBrown later expressed dissatisfaction with \"Life Against Death\", referring to its chapter on \"Language and Eros\" as \"quite immature.\" He observed that the book, \"records the first revision of my historical identity, from Marx to Marx and Freud\", a process which occurred because his first \"historical identity\", Marxism, had been \"wrecked in the frozen landscapes of the Cold War, the defeat of the simplistic hopes for a better world that inspired the Henry Wallace campaign for the Presidency in 1948.\" Brown, who saw Louis Zukofsky's poetry as anticipating the ideas of both \"Life Against Death\" and \"Love's Body\" (1966), has called \"Life Against Death\" \"my first exuberant surge of premature post-Marxist energy\", writing that in it he had wagered his \"intellectual life on the idea of finding in Freud what was missing in Marx.\" Brown \"found in Freud's analysis of the pathological dimension of human desires the basis for a post-Marxist critique of capitalism.\" Commenting on his intellectual development, Brown noted that, \"My Marxist background had given me a healthy prejudice against moneymaking. Imagine my excitement when I discovered Sandor Ferenczi's article 'The Ontogenesis of the Interest in Money'; with its immortal conclusion, 'After what has been said money is seen to be nothing other than deodorized, dehydrated shit that has been made to shine.'\"\n\nThat this shift of Brown's interests toward psychoanalysis led to the writing of \"Love's Body\", which concluded that \"there is only poetry\", showed, according to Brown, that pursuing the implications of Freud's ideas consistently led to the breakdown of \"categories of traditional 'rationality' still accepted as authoritative by both Marx and Freud; that massive breakdown...which Nietzsche baptized with the name of Dionysus.\" Brown wrote that he now realized that he did not really know what he was saying when he called for \"Dionysian consciousness\" in the last chapter of \"Life Against Death\". Brown added that it was clear to him in that work \"that at that deep level which can only be expressed in myth or metaphor, Freud's 'instinct theory' needed to be remythologized in terms of Dionysus, that is to say in terms of instinctual dialectics rather than instinctual dualism. Or, to use another metaphor, in terms of Heraclitus rather than Empedocles.\" Brown concluded that the last chapter of \"Life Against Death\" was disfigured by the misleading idea that the world could be 'a pastoral scene of peace and pleasure, \"luxe calme et volupté\", Baudelaire's utopian image invoked by Marcuse in \"Eros and Civilization\"'.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3716296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3716296", "title": "List of Monster Rancher episodes", "text": "List of Monster Rancher episodes\n\nThis is a list of episodes for the anime\" Monster Rancher\". The show is based on the \"Monster Rancher\" video game series made by Tecmo. The episodes are directed by Hiroyuki Yano, who also directed Daigunder and co-directed a Lupin III television special. The Japanese animation studio TMS Entertainment produced the show. The original run was from April 17, 1999 to September 30, 2000 on the Tokyo Broadcasting System in Japan, and was later adapted to English.\n\n"}
{"id": "7218862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7218862", "title": "List of human spaceflights, 1981–1990", "text": "List of human spaceflights, 1981–1990\n\nThis is a detailed listing of human spaceflights from 1981 to 1990, spanning the end of the Soviet Union's Salyut space station program, the beginning of Mir, and the start of the US Space Shuttle program.\n"}
{"id": "48029507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48029507", "title": "List of school massacres by death toll", "text": "List of school massacres by death toll\n\nThis list of school massacres by death toll contains those cases that occurred at kindergartens, schools and universities, as well as their affiliated buildings. If the perpetrator was a member of the school staff and the victims primarily his colleagues the case is not included here but added to the . School massacres are counted as incidents involving at least two deaths, excluding the potential death of the perpetrator.\n\nAll abbreviations used in the table are explained below.\n\nThe W-column gives a basic description of the weapons used in the murders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5059693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5059693", "title": "Lugius", "text": "Lugius\n\nLugius was a co-leader of the Cimbri tribe during the Cimbrian War, in which the Cimbri won a spectacular victory against the Romans at the Battle of Arausio in 105 BC. He was later defeated and slain along with Boiorix at the Battle of Vercellae in 101 BC. The other Cimbrian chiefs Claodicus and Caesorix were captured.\n"}
{"id": "5136969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5136969", "title": "Luis Collazo", "text": "Luis Collazo\n\nLuis Collazo (born April 22, 1981) is an American professional boxer. He held the WBA (Regular) welterweight title from 2005 to 2006, and has challenged twice for a world title in 2009 and 2015.\n\nCollazo is of Puerto Rican descent, and grew up in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nCollazo won the WBA Welterweight title on April 2, 2005 with a 12-round split decision victory over defending champion Jose Antonio Rivera. However, the WBA had elevated Cory Spinks to \"Undisputed Champion\" status before he had lost his titles to Zab Judah, so Collazo was not yet the definitive champion of that organization. On January 7, 2006, Judah lost a 12-round decision to Carlos Baldomir in New York. Baldomir had chosen to pay the sanctioning fee of the WBC only; as a result Judah's WBA undisputed title was vacated. With Judah's loss, Collazo then attained recognition as the WBA's sole welterweight champion. On May 13, 2006, he lost the title to Ricky Hatton in a very tight and controversial affair which went the distance.\n\nOn February 10, 2007 he lost a 12-round unanimous decision versus Sugar Shane Mosley in which he injured his hand early in the fight and continued on till the end. After working back from the injury through rehab and aggressive training, by long-time trainer Nirmal Lorick, Luis fought on the Roy Jones Jr vs. Félix Trinidad card, January 19, 2008 at Madison Square Gardens. He won a one-sided victory against Edvan Dos Santos Barros (9-5-1, 7 KOs), winning 100-90 on 2 judges' scorecards and 99-91 on the other.\n\nOn September 28, 2008 on the Mosley vs. Mayorga undercard, Collazo stopped Russell Jordan (now 15-6) in the eighth and final round of their bout.\n\nOn January 17, 2009, Collazo fought the undefeated Andre Berto for the WBC Welterweight. Collazo lost a very close fight and a controversial unanimous decision after 12 rounds. Collazo appeared to be ahead most of the fight. The scores were 113-114, 113-114 and the third judge Bill Clancy scored the bout 111-116 which was found by some to be controversial.\n\nOn January 30, 2014, Collazo defeated Victor Ortiz in the first match up for Ortiz since his jaw was broken. Collazo landed a right hook to Ortiz in the last second of the second round which ended the match after the 10 count.\n\nLuis Collazo also faced Amir Khan in 2014, Khan dominated all rounds and scored three knockdowns during the fight.\n\n"}
{"id": "30526821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30526821", "title": "MASON (Java)", "text": "MASON (Java)\n\nMASON is a multi-agent simulation environment developed in Java.\n\nMASON is developed at George Mason University's Evolutionary Computation Laboratory in conjunction with the GMU Center for Social Complexity. First released in 2003, the environment continues to be maintained and kept up to date. The name, as well as referring to the parent institution, derives from the acronym Multi-Agent Simulator Of Neighborhoods (or Networks).\n\nMASON development started within the Java.net environment, then moved to Google Code and is now at GitHub.\n\nWhilst MASON is less extensive than other similar libraries it is designed with simplicity and execution speed as a priority.\n\nApplets developed using MASON include Craig Reynolds' Boids algorithm, \"Balls and Bands\", a simulation of Hooke's Law, an L-system generator, Conway's Game of Life, Sugarscape and autonomous multi-robot systems.\n\nMASON may be used with the Eclipse Integrated development environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "937333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=937333", "title": "Marbled lungfish", "text": "Marbled lungfish\n\nThe marbled lungfish (\"Protopterus aethiopicus\") is a lungfish of the family Protopteridae. Also known as the leopard lungfish, it is found in Africa. At 133 billion base pairs it has the largest known genome of any vertebrate and one of the largest of any organism on Earth, along with \"Polychaos dubium\" and \"Paris japonica\" at 670 billion and 150 billion, respectively.\n\nThe marbled lungfish is smooth, elongated, and cylindrical with deeply embedded scales. The tail is very long and has tapers at the end. They can reach a length of up to . The pectoral and pelvic fins are also very long and thin, almost spaghetti-like, used for gliding through the water. The newly hatched young have branched external gills much like those of newts. After two to three months, the young metamorphose into the adult form, losing their external gills for gill openings. These fish have a yellowish gray or pinkish-toned ground color with dark slate-gray splotches, creating a marbling or leopard effect over their bodies and fins. The color pattern is darker along the top and lighter below. It was once believed that marbled lungfish are obligate air breathers, however, this new research study conducted by CM Mlewa suggests that the marbled lungfish primarily relies on aquatic respiration unless restricted by certain ecological or physiological conditions.\n\n\"Protopterus aethiopicus\" is found in the African countries of Tanzania, Ethiopia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Uganda, and the Sudan. Specifically, it lives in the Nile River and in lakes such as Albert, Edward, Tanganyika, Victoria, Nabugabo, No, and Kyoga. Different subspecies are found in different areas: \"P. a. aethiopicus\" lives in the Nile and lakes Victoria and Tanganyika, \"P. a. congicus\" in the middle and upper Congo River, and \"P. a. mesmaekersi\" in the lower Congo.\n\nAdult marbled lungfish live in swamps, riverbeds, floodplains, and river deltas throughout its range. The juvenile members of the species often live in between the roots of papyrus plants. Despite being aquatic, adult marbled lungfish can live in riverbeds and other areas that have no rain for portions of the year due to their ability to estivate or burrow in the ground to form an air bubble and breathe out of a hole in the cocoon thus formed.\n\nBreeding generally occurs during flood season, during which time males prepare a pit nest. One or more females may use the same pit nest, into which they lay their eggs. The female(s) then leaves the nest and the male guards the nest from attack for the next 8 weeks; in addition, he regularly fills the nest with air to ensure that the newly-laid eggs survive. Research experiments conducted on marbled lungfish in Lake Baringo, Kenya, Africa reveal that the marbled lungfish actually reproduce regularly throughout the year as observed by the presence of lungfish in all maturity stages in all monthly samples. Additionally, based on the growth trajectories from R. Dunbarck’s experiments suggests that overall, the marbled lungfish have a low reproductive effort and reach maturity around the age of 3 years.\n\nThe diet of adults consists largely of mollusks, such as \"Mutela\" \"bourguignati.\" They also eat small fish and insects at times; the diet of juveniles consists almost entirely of insects.\n"}
{"id": "56743462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56743462", "title": "Moral enhancement", "text": "Moral enhancement\n\nMoral enhancement (abbreviated ME), also called moral bioenhancement (abbreviated MBE), is the use of biomedical technology to morally improve people. MBE is a recent topic in neuroethics, involving the ethics of neuroscience as well as the neuroscience of ethics. After Thomas Douglas introduced the concept in 2008, its merits have been widely debated in academic bioethics literature. Since then, Ingmar Persson and Julian Savulescu have been the most vocal MBE supporters. Much of the debate over MBE has focused on their 2012 book supporting it, \"Unfit for the Future? The Need for Moral Enhancement.\"\n\nMoral enhancement in general is sometimes distinguished from MBE specifically, such that ME includes any means of moral improvement while MBE only involves biomedical interventions. For example, Persson and Savulescu have cited moral education as an example of socially accepted non-biomedical moral enhancement.\n\nSome also distinguish invasive from non-invasive, intended from resultant, treatment-focused from enhancement-focused, capability-improving from behavior-improving, and passive from active ME interventions. Vojin Rakić has distinguished voluntary from compulsory MBE, claiming that the former is justifiable even if the latter is not.\n\nDouglas originally suggested MBE as a counter-example to what he called the \"bioconservative thesis,\" which claims that human enhancement is immoral even if it is feasible. He argued that enhancements to reduce \"counter-moral\" racist and aggressive emotional reactions would at least be morally permissible.\n\nMark Alan Walker proposed a \"Genetic Virtue Project\" to genetically enhance moral traits. Given that personality traits are heritable, and some traits are moral while others are immoral, he suggested increasing moral traits while reducing immoral ones through genetic engineering.\n\nBased on the fact that human technological progress has advanced faster than human moral psychology can adapt through evolution, Persson & Savulescu point out that humans' capability to cause large-scale destruction has increased exponentially. However, given that humans tend to care only about their immediate acquaintances and circumstances instead of thinking on a larger scale, they are vulnerable to tragedies of the commons like climate change and to technologies like nuclear weapons which pose an existential threat to humanity. Given that moral education and liberal democracy are insufficient, MBE is needed at least as a supplementary method to solve these problems.\n\nCentral issues debated in the MBE literature include whether there is an urgent need for MBE, a sufficient consensus on the definition of morality, some technically feasible and ethically permissible interventions to carry out MBE, no violation of consent in those interventions, and no harmful social side-effects that they produce.\n\nTerri Murray disputed the claim by Persson & Savulescu that political will and moral education are insufficient to address the major problems facing humanity, claiming that Persson & Savulescu unjustly reify moral dispositions in biology.\n\nSince the nature of morality has historically caused wide disagreements, several authors have questioned whether it is possible to come up with a sufficiently widely accepted ethical basis for MBE, especially with respect to what qualities should be enhanced.\n\nMBE proponents have been accused of being too speculative, overstating the capabilities of future interventions and describing unrealistic scenarios like enhancing \"all of humanity.\" One literature review assessed the evidence on seven interventions cited by MBE proponents, finding all of them ineffective.\n\nOther authors have suggested that unless MBE is based on an individual's choice, it cannot truly be called \"moral\" enhancement because personal choice is the basis of ethics.\n\nIf MBE is more effective for enhancing people that are already moral, then it could increase the gap between moral and immoral people, increasing social inequality. Also, if MBE makes some people morally better, it could unfairly raise the moral standards for everyone else.\n"}
{"id": "32613583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32613583", "title": "Museum informatics", "text": "Museum informatics\n\nMuseum informatics is an interdisciplinary field of study that refers to the theory and application of informatics by museums. It is in essence a sub-field of cultural informatics at the intersection of culture, digital technology, and information science. In the context of the digital age facilitating growing commonalities across museums, libraries and archives, its place in academe has grown substantially and also has connections with digital humanities.\n\nThe earliest references to museum informatics in English are from \"Archives and Museum Informatics\" a newsletter and journal published on the subject from 1987–1996. In the early 1990s, museum informatics projects and services developed at numerous American universities. Cultural informatics was introduced into library and information science education in 2000 at the Pratt Institute School of Library and Information Science in New York. Graduate courses devoted to museum informatics were offered from at least 2001. PhD theses were using \"museum informatics\" in the title by 2004. By 2007, an academic reader, \"Museum Informatics: People, Information, and Technology in Museums\", edited by Paul F. Marty and Katherine Burton Jones, was published as part of the Routledge Studies in Library and Information Science.\n\nMuseum informatics is an emerging field of academic study focused on the intersection between information technologies, museums and their staff members, and online museum data and services. The more general cultural informatics deals with, for example, information design and interaction, digital curation, cultural heritage description and access, social media, and the application of digital tools. Museums have embraced the application of museum informatics which has been supported by US federal grants and in particular by the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). The older term \"museum studies\" refers more to traditional curatorial perspectives rather than relating to the use of information science and information technology.\n\n\"Archives and Museum Informatics\" is a leading journal in the field of museum informatics. University courses relating to museology include a component on museum informatics.\nThe Museum Computer Network (MCN) in the United States holds an annual conference and runs the MCN-L electronic mailing list. The Museums Computer Group (MCG) in the United Kingdom also holds meetings relevant to museum informatics.\nThe ICHIM conference series in Europe and the Museums and the Web conference series in North America cover aspects of museum informatics. \nOther relevant conferences include the EVA Conferences.\nBooks are available on the subject.\n\nThere have been a number of collaborative projects in the field of museum informatics such as AMICO, Artstor, the Museum Informatics Project (MIP), and steve.museum.\nThe International Council of Museums (ICOM), through Cary Karp, was instrumental in initiating the \".museum\" top-level domain for museums on the Internet.\nCompanies such as Archives & Museum Informatics in Canada and Cogapp in the United Kingdom help museums in using information technology effectively.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18454852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18454852", "title": "My Aquarium", "text": "My Aquarium\n\nMy Aquarium (Blue Oasis in Japan) is a virtual pet video game by Hudson Soft for WiiWare and PlayStation Network. It was released in Japan on June 24, 2008, in Europe on August 15, 2008 and in North America on September 1, 2008 for the WiiWare and on September 8, 2010 in Japan for the PlayStation Network.\n\nThe game is a virtual aquarium that sees players caring for fish in up to six aquariums of their own design. The player can choose from 49 species of fish (most of which must be unlocked as only 13 are available at the beginning) to populate an aquarium that can be customized with a choice of decorations, backgrounds, lighting and plant life.\n\nThe game also utilizes data from the Forecast Channel, changing lighting and conditions based on the weather. However, there is no emphasis on realism; for example salt water and fresh water fish can be placed together and water temperature is not taken into consideration. While no cheats are available for the game itself, it has been noted that the game runs off of the various aspects of the Wii system and with that in mind, the date from the system settings can be changed repeatedly to unlock new or hidden items.\n\nPlayers can also send their own aquariums to other players with the game through WiiConnect24.\n\nA sequel entitled My Aquarium 2 was released in Japan on August 3, 2010, in North America on August 9, 2010 and in the PAL region on September 10, 2010 for the WiiWare.\n\nIGN gave it a 6/10, likening it to a screensaver and calling time spent with it a \"boot and watch\" experience, ultimately leaving readers to decide if \"My Aquarium\" appeals to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "5498841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5498841", "title": "Nosferatu (word)", "text": "Nosferatu (word)\n\nThe name \"Nosferatu\" has been presented as possibly an archaic Hungarian-Romanian word, synonymous with \"vampire\". However, it was largely popularized in the late 19th and early 20th centuries by Western fiction such as \"Dracula\", and the film \"Nosferatu\".\nA few of the many suggested etymologies of the term are that it is derived from the Romanian \"Nesuferitu\" (\"the insufferable/repugnant one\") or \"Necuratu\" (\"unclean spirit\"), terms typically used in vernacular Romanian to designate Satan (the Devil).\n\nThe etymological origins of the word \"nosferatu\" are difficult to determine. There is no doubt that it achieved popular currency through Bram Stoker's 1897 novel \"Dracula\" and its unauthorised cinematic adaptation, \"Nosferatu\" (1922). Stoker identified his source for the term as 19th-century British author and speaker Emily Gerard. It is commonly thought that Gerard introduced the word into print in an 1885 magazine article, \"Transylvanian Superstitions\", and in her travelogue \"The Land Beyond the Forest\" (\"Transylvania\" is Latin for \"beyond the forest\", literally \"across/through the forest\"). She merely refers to it as the Romanian word for vampire: \n\nHowever, the word had already appeared in an 1865 German-language article by Wilhelm Schmidt. Schmidt's article discusses Transylvanian customs and appeared in an Austro-Hungarian magazine, which Gerard could have encountered as a reviewer of German literature living in Austria-Hungary. Schmidt's article also mentions the legendary Scholomance by name, which parallels Gerard's \"Transylvanian Superstitions\". Schmidt does not identify the language explicitly, but he puts the word \"nosferatu\" in a typeface which indicates it to be a language other than German.\n\nSchmidt's description is unambiguous in identifying \"nosferatu\" as a \"Vampyr\". \n\nSchmidt expanded on his 1865 article in an 1866 monograph, adding the observation that the vampire was the \"uncanniest spawn of national-slavic fantasy\" and that his description was the Romanian perception.\n\nHowever, \"nosferatu\" in that form does not appear to be a standard word in any known historical phase of Romanian (aside from that introduced by the novel and the films). Internal evidence in \"Dracula\" suggests that Stoker believed the term meant \"not dead\" in Romanian, and thus he may have intended the word \"undead\" to be its calque.\n\nPeter Haining identifies an earlier source for \"nosferatu\" as \"Roumanian Superstitions\" (1861) by . However, Wlislocki seems only to have written in German, and according to the \"Magyar Néprajzi Lexikon\", Wlislocki was born in 1856 (d. 1907), which makes his authorship of an English-titled 1861 source doubtful. Certain details of Haining's citation also conflict with David J. Skal, so this citation seems unreliable. Skal identifies a similar reference to the word \"nosferat\" in an article by Wlislocki dating from 1896. Since this postdates Gerard and has a number of parallels to Gerard's work, Skal considers it likely that Wlislocki is derivative from Gerard. There is also evidence to suggest that Haining derived his citation for \"Roumanian Superstitions\" from a confused reading of an extract in Ernest Jones's 1931 book, \"On the Nightmare\".\n\nWlislocki's later description of \"der Nosferat\" is more extensive than either Schmidt's or Gerard's. The former two German-language sources particularly emphasize the dual role of the creature as both blood-drinker and incubus/succubus. Wlislocki's \"nosferat\" is said to drink the blood of older people, while seeking to have sexual intercourse with young people and especially newlyweds, often being blamed for illegitimate children (who become \"moroi\"), impotence, and infertility. From the description by Wlislocki, who was a half-Saxon native of Kronstadt (Hungarian Brassó, Romanian Brașov, one of Saxon Transylvania's \"seven cities\"), it is difficult not to get the impression that both the term and the idea must have been quite well known in his community, which makes the inability to confirm its existence in Romanian literature rather puzzling.\n\nOne proposed etymology of \"nosferatu\" is that the term originally came from the Greek \"nosophoros\" (νοσοφόρος), meaning \"disease-bearing\". F. W. Murnau's classic film \"Nosferatu\" strongly emphasizes this theme of disease, and Murnau's creative direction in the film may have been influenced by this etymology (or \"vice versa\"). However, several difficulties with this etymology should be noted. Schmidt, Gerard, and Wlislocki, all three sometime residents of Transylvania, identified the word as Romanian, and even proponents of the \"nosophoros\" etymology (as well as most other commentators) seem to have little doubt that this is correct; Wlislocki particularly was regarded as an expert in Transylvanian languages and folklore and was a prolific author on the subjects. Curiously, in Wlislocki's 1896 article, he presents a parenthetical analysis of the related Romanian term \"solomonar\" but has nothing to say regarding the origin and connections of the term \"nosferat\", despite having normalized the spelling of both relative to Schmidt's earlier account. If this Romanian identification is taken to be correct, the first objection to the \"nosophoros\" etymology is that Romanian is a Romance language. While Romanian does have some words borrowed from Greek, as do most European languages, Greek is generally considered to be only a minor contributor to the Romanian vocabulary—absent any other information, any given Romanian word is much more likely to be of Latin origin than Greek. Second, the word appears to be quite rare in Greek. One instance of a Greek word similar to νοσοφόρος, νοσηφόρος (\"nosēphoros\"), is attested in fragments from a 2nd-century AD work by Marcellus Sidetes on medicine plus another of the Ionic dialect variant νουσοφόρος (\"nousophoros\") from the \"Palatine Anthology\". These two variant forms are subsumed as examples of the main νοσοφόρος lemma in the definitive Liddel-Scott \"Greek–English Lexicon\" but examples of the normalized form itself seem to be lacking. In any event, supporting evidence for a relationship between this rare and obscure Greek term and \"nosferatu\" appears weak.\n\nIn some versions of the \"nosophoros\" etymology, an intermediate form \"*nesufur-atu\", or sometimes \"*nosufur-atu\" is presented but both the original source for this and the justification for it are unclear. This form is often indicated to be Slavonic or Slavic. It is likely that either Old Church Slavonic or the protolanguage Proto-Slavic is intended. As with νοσοφόρος, this supposed Slavonic word does not \nappear to be attested in primary sources, which severely undermines the credibility of the argument.\n\nAnother common etymology suggests that the word meant \"not breathing\", which appears to be attempting to read a derivative of the Latin verb \"spirare\" (\"to breathe\") as a second morpheme in \"nosferatu\". Skal notes that this is \"without basis in lexicography\", viewing all these etymologies (including the widely repeated nosophoros etymology) with skepticism.\n\nA final possibility is that the form given by Gerard and the German folklorists is a well-known Romanian term without the benefit of normalized spelling, or possibly a misinterpretation of the sounds of the word due to Gerard's limited familiarity with the language, or possibly a dialectical variant of the word. The standardization of Romanian was rather incomplete in the 19th century, as can be seen in \"Dictionariulu Limbei Romane\" of 1871, which in a highly Latinized orthography defines \"incubu\" (\"incubus\") as \"\"unu spiritu necuratu\" compared to the modern standard \"un spirit necurat\"\". Three candidate words that have been put forth are \"necurat\" (\"unclean\", usually associated with the occult, compare \"a avea un spirit necurat\", to have an evil spirit, be possessed), \"nesuferit\" (\"insufferable\"). and \"nefârtat\" (\"enemy\", lit. \"unbrothered\"). The nominative masculine definite form of a Romanian noun in the declension to which these words belong takes the ending \"-ul\" or even the shortened \"u\", as in Romanian \"l\" is usually lost in the process of speaking, so the definite forms \"necuratu\", \"nesuferitu\" and \"nefârtatu\" are commonly encountered (translatable as \"the unclean\", \"the insufferable one\", and \"the Devil\", respectively). \"Nesuferitu\" is perhaps the most phonetically satisfactory of the three, considering that the pre-reform Romanian writing accepted the circumflex diacritic \"â\" as a variant of \"î\" (\"România\" → \"Romînia\"), so that the word might have been transcribed as \"nesuferatu\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20755448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20755448", "title": "Offences Against the Person Act 1828", "text": "Offences Against the Person Act 1828\n\nThe Offences Against the Person Act 1828 (9 Geo. 4 c. 31) (also known as Lord Lansdowne's Act) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. It consolidated provisions in the law related to offences against the person (an expression which, in particular, includes offences of violence) from a number of earlier statutes into a single Act. It was part of the criminal law reforms known collectively as \"Peel's Acts\", passed with the objective of simplifying the law. Among the laws it replaced was clause XXXVI of the Magna Carta, the first time any part of the Magna Carta was repealed, and the Buggery Act 1533. It also abolished the crime of petty treason.\n\nThe Act only applied to England and Wales (then described as England). A similar statute was passed for Ireland the following year (10 Geo. 4 c. 34).\n\nA number of the Act's provisions were repealed and replaced by the Offences against the Person Act 1837. The death penalty for shooting, stabbing, cutting or wounding with intent (s.12), and for post-quickening abortions (s.13) under this Act was abolished by repeal of those sections by section 1 of the 1837 Act (sections 12 and 13 of this act were replaced by sections 4 and 6 of the 1837 Act, respectively).\n\nThe death penalty for rape (s.16) and carnal knowledge of a girl under ten (s.17) was abolished by amendment of those sections by section 3 of the Substitution of Punishments of Death Act 1841. Section 18 made provision in relation to proof of carnal knowledge.\n\nThe Act was wholly replaced by the Offences against the Person Act 1861.\n\nUnder the Offences Against the Person Act of 1828, several sections pertained to the crime of rape. The penalty for being convicted of rape was still death, and remained so until 1841. The Act also made it a felony punishable by death to carnally know a girl under the age of ten. Carnally knowing a girl over the age of ten and under the age of twelve was a misdemeanor punishable with imprisonment with the option of hard labor for a term to be determined by the court. \n\nThe Act also affirmed that proof of penetration was sufficient to reach the conclusion that one person had had carnal knowledge of another; before the 1828 statute, victims of rape had to prove that the perpetrator ejaculated. Historian Anna Clark has argued that medical experts used ejaculation as proof of rape because it was tangible evidence that reduced the need for a victim's testimony. Clark also contends that requiring proof of ejaculation allowed judges and magistrates to ask victims humiliating and explicit questions. By changing the definition of carnal knowledge from ejaculation to proof of penetration, the 1828 act made it a little easier for victims to prosecute their rapists. Records show that from 1828 to 1841, 63 defendants accused of rape were tried at the Old Bailey. Of those 63 defendants, 16 were found guilty and 12 were sentenced to death. Three had their sentenced reduced to imprisonment, and one had his judgment respited altogether.\n\nThe Act and its focus on interpersonal violence also had the effect of increasing formal accusations of domestic violence, by reducing the stigma surrounding such activity and diminishing judicial delays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38481828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38481828", "title": "Outline of death", "text": "Outline of death\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to death:\n\nDeath – termination of all biological functions that sustain a living organism.\n\nDeath can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDeath and culture\n\n\n\n\n\nDeath care industry – companies and organizations that provide services related to death (i.e., funerals, cremation or burial, and memorials).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47619978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47619978", "title": "Paul Béranger", "text": "Paul Béranger\n\nPaul Béranger was a French discus thrower. He competed at the 1924 Summer Olympics and finished in 14th place.\n"}
{"id": "4176373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4176373", "title": "Peloridiidae", "text": "Peloridiidae\n\nThe Peloridiidae or moss bugs are a family of true bugs, comprising eighteen genera and thirty-four species. They are small, ranging in length from 2 to 4 mm, rarely seen, peculiarly lumpy, flattened bugs found in Patagonia (Argentina and Chile), New Zealand, eastern Australia, Lord Howe Island, and New Caledonia. All the Peloridiidae species are flightless, except one (Peloridium hammoniorum). Their present distribution suggests they have existed before the breakup of Gondwana, and their relation to Heteroptera (true bugs) dates back to at least the upper Permian, more than 230 Mya ago. Peloridiids are found amongst mosses and liverworts, commonly in association with southern beech forests. They have become known as moss bugs for their habit of feeding on mosses.\n\nPeloridiidae are the only extant family in the suborder Coleorrhyncha. Historically the Peloridiidae and their fossil kin were assigned to a variety of orders. In 1929 Myers and China placed them in the Homoptera, in 1962 China placed them in the Auchenorrhyncha, and in 1963 Evans placed them in the Cicadomorpha. This was followed by Bourgoin in 1997 who placed the Peloridiidae in Fulgoromorpha. However, following Bekker-Migdisova's 1952 suggestion, and Popov and Wootton's 1977 review, there is consensus that the Peloridiidae belong in Coleorrhyncha and that Coleorrhyncha is a sister group to the Heteroptera. Schlee (1969), Wheeler \"et al.\" (1993), Schuh & Slater (1995), Campbell \"et al.\" (1995), Ouvrard \"et al.\" (2000) and Brozç (2007).\n\nThe question remains whether this affinity between the Coleorrhyncha and the Heteroptera necessitates the imposition of a suborder between them and the order Hemiptera. In 1995 Sorensen proposed the name Prosorrhyncha for such suborder. (See the Heteroptera and Prosorrhyncha pages for a discussion).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "901457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=901457", "title": "Pernell Whitaker", "text": "Pernell Whitaker\n\nPernell Whitaker (born January 2, 1964) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1984 to 2001, and has since worked as a boxing trainer. He is a four-weight world champion, having won titles at lightweight, light welterweight, welterweight, and light middleweight; the undisputed lightweight title; and the lineal lightweight and welterweight titles. In 1989, Whitaker was named Fighter of the Year by \"The Ring\" magazine and the Boxing Writers Association of America. From 1993 to 1997, \"The Ring\" ranked him as the best active boxer in the world, pound for pound. He currently holds the longest unified lightweight championship reign in boxing history at 6 title defenses.\n\nAs an amateur, Whitaker won a silver medal in the lightweight division at the 1982 World Championships, followed by gold at the 1983 Pan American Games and 1984 Olympics. After his retirement in 2001, Whitaker returned to the sport as a trainer. In 2002, \"The Ring\" ranked him tenth in their list of \"The 100 Greatest Fighters of the Last 80 Years\". In 2006, Whitaker was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame, in his first year of eligibility.\n\nWhitaker had an extensive amateur boxing career, having started at the age of nine. He had 214 amateur fights, winning 201, 91 of them by knockouts, though he says that he has had up to 500 amateur fights. He lost to two-time Olympic Gold medalist Ángel Herrera Vera at the final of the World Championships 1982 but beat him four other times, notably in the final of the Pan American Games 1983 in Caracas. He crowned his amateur career with an Olympic Gold Medal in 1984.\n\nIn just his eleventh and twelfth pro bouts, Whitaker defeated Alfredo Layne on December 20, 1986 and former WBA Super Featherweight title holder Roger Mayweather on March 28, 1987. Whitaker won both bouts before hometown crowds at the Norfolk Scope, less than a mile from where he lived as a child in a Norfolk housing project. Whitaker would fight nine times in the Scope arena during his career.\n\nOn March 12, 1988, he challenged José Luis Ramírez for the WBC Lightweight title in Levallois, France. He suffered his first pro defeat when the judges awarded a split decision to Ramirez. The decision was highly controversial, with most feeling that Whitaker had won the fight with something to spare. In his 1999 edition of the 'World Encyclopedia of Boxing,' Harry Mullan stated that the decision in this bout was \"generally considered to be a disgrace.\" To date, the decision is rated at or near the top of many boxing observers' lists of the worst decisions in boxing history.\n\nWhitaker trudged on, winning a decision over Greg Haugen for the IBF Lightweight title on February 18, 1989, becoming the first boxer to knock Haugen down by dropping him in the sixth round. He then added the vacant WBC & \"The Ring\" belts by avenging his loss to Ramirez on August 20.\n\nNow a champion, Whitaker proceeded to dominate boxing's middle divisions over the first half of the 1990s. In 1990, he defended his Lightweight title against future champion Freddie Pendleton and Super Featherweight Champion Azumah Nelson of Ghana. On August 11, 1990, he knocked out Juan Nazario in one round to win the WBA and vacant lineal lightweight titles, becoming the first Undisputed Lightweight Champion since Roberto Durán. His highlight of 1991 was a win over Jorge Páez and a fight against European Champion Poli Díaz that ended in another win.\n\nIn 1992, he began his ascent in weight, winning the IBF light welterweight title from Colombian puncher Rafael Pineda on July 18.\n\nOn March 6, 1993, he decisioned James (Buddy) McGirt to become the Lineal and WBC Welterweight Champion.\n\nWhitaker was gaining momentum and boxing experts and fans felt that he needed to win against the pound for pound best boxer in the world: Julio César Chávez. The two met in a welterweight superfight simply named \"The Fight\" on September 10, 1993 in San Antonio, Texas. In the eyes of many of the spectators, Whitaker outboxed the Mexican legend. However, 2 of the 3 judges saw an even bout with the other judge scoring in favor of Whitaker, resulting in a majority draw. Sports Illustrated featured a cover titled \"ROBBED!\" after the conclusion of this fight and believed that Whitaker had won 9 of the 12 rounds in the fight. The now defunct \"Boxing Illustrated\" magazine, whose editor-in-chief was boxing historian Bert Sugar, had a heading on the cover of its post-fight edition telling readers not to buy the issue if they really believed \"The Fight\" was a draw.\n\nWhitaker continued on to dominate for the next few years, defending his welterweight title in a rematch against McGirt on October 1, 1994.\n\nIn his next fight on March 4, 1995, Whitaker added Julio César Vásquez's WBA super welterweight title to his collection. Although Whitaker suffered a \"flash\" knockdown early on in the fight, he basically faced no real trouble against Vásquez in route to the win. This was a history making fight for Whitaker, as he became only the fourth fighter in history - joining Thomas Hearns, Sugar Ray Leonard, and Roberto Duran - to have won a legitimate world title in four different weight classes. However, he chose to move back to welterweight.\n\nWhitaker successfully defended his WBC belt against Scotland's Gary Jacobs on August 26, 1995. In January, 1997, Whitaker put his title on the line against Cuban fighter Diosbelys Hurtado. Hurtado gave Whitaker all he could handle and then some. Hurtado had Whitaker down on all the judges scorecards going into the 11th round: Hurtado scored flash knockdowns against Whitaker in rounds 1 and 6, and Whitaker had a point deducted in the 9th round for hitting Hurtado behind the head. But midway in the 11th round, Whitaker landed a left hook that hurt Hurtado and, in a rare display of aggression & power, unleashed a barrage of left-handed power shots, pummeling Hurtado into the ropes, knocking Hurtado out and almost completely out of the ring before referee Arthur Mercante Jr. stopped the fight at the 1:52 mark, giving Whitaker the come-from-behind TKO win. The win set up a showdown with undefeated 1992 Olympic gold medalist Oscar De La Hoya.\n\nHe met Oscar De La Hoya on April 12, 1997, in Las Vegas, Nevada. Whitaker, defending his WBC championship and the mythical status as the best boxer in the world, pound for pound, succeeded in making De La Hoya look bad through his crafty defense, but he was unable to mount a sufficient offense to convince the judges. Whitaker was awarded an official knockdown in the 9th round and, according to CompuBox stats, outlanded De La Hoya in overall punches and connect percentage, using the jab as his primary weapon; but De La Hoya threw and landed almost twice as many power punches & had a slightly higher power punch connect percentage than Whitaker, which may have been the key factor in De La Hoya winning by a disputed unanimous decision. At the end of the fight, the judges' scores were 111-115, 110-116, 110-116. The fight was a whole lot closer than what the final scorecards showed, and there were many boxing analysts and sportswriters at ringside who felt that Whitaker actually won the fight. It was another controversial decision against Whitaker, but it wasn't seen as a blatant robbery like the Ramirez or Chavez fights.\n\nFor his part, De La Hoya wasn't too pleased with his own performance against Whitaker and had hinted at a possible rematch to prove that he could do better against him. But Bob Arum, De La Hoya's promoter at that time, decided against it.\nWhitaker's next bout was against Russian-born fighter Andrey Pestryaev in a world title elimination fight, where the winner would earn an automatic #1 contender spot for the WBA Welterweight crown, held at the time by Ike Quartey. Whitaker originally won the fight, but the win was nullified & changed to a No Decision after he failed a post-fight drug test. Whitaker was suspended for six months, but the commission lifted the suspension after he agreed to random testing and his title bout with Quartey was to proceed as scheduled, however, the bout was cancelled after Whitaker tested positive for a second time.\n\nOn February 20, 1999, Whitaker suffered his first convincing defeat against the much bigger, much fresher Félix Trinidad, gamely taking the Puerto Rican the distance in an attempt to win Trinidad's IBF welterweight title. The fight began with both boxers displaying aggressive styles, which included excessive pushing. In the following rounds, both boxers used their jabs most of the time, with Trinidad gaining an advantage when Whitaker attempted to attack inside, eventually scoring a knockdown in round two. In the fourth, fifth and sixth rounds the fighters exchanged combinations. Later in the fight, both boxers fell to the canvas in what were ruled as \"accidental slips.\" On the seventh round, Whitaker displayed more offense, trading power punches with Trinidad, but the champion retained control in the fight's tempo during the eight, ninth and tenth rounds. In the last round, Whitaker, with a badly swollen right eye, displayed a purely defensive stance, avoiding his opponent throughout the round while Trinidad continued on the offensive until the fight concluded. The judges gave the champion scores of 117–111, 118–109 and 118–109.\n\nHis last fight came on April 27, 2001, against journeyman Carlos Bojorquez. Whitaker, the former lightweight, entered the ring at 155 pounds. He broke his clavicle in round four and was forced to retire; at the time of the stoppage Whitaker was trailing in all the judges' scorecards by 28-29. Following this fight, Whitaker officially announced his retirement. He finished his professional career with an official record of 40-4-1 (17 knockouts).\n\nIn 2002, \"The Ring\" ranked Whitaker as the 10th Greatest Fighter of the Last 80 Years.\n\nOn December 7, 2006, Whitaker was inducted in the International Boxing Hall of Fame along with contemporaries Roberto Durán and Ricardo López. They were all elected in their first year of eligibility.\n\nA southpaw, Whitaker was known for his outstanding defensive skills and for being a strong counterpuncher. He was not a particularly hard puncher or knockout artist, but applied a consistent offense while being extremely elusive and difficult for his opponents to hit with a solid punch.\n\nAs a youngster, Whitaker was known to friends and family as \"Pete\" and when he began to emerge as a top amateur, fans in his hometown of Norfolk used to serenade him with chants of \"Sweet Pete.\" This was misinterpreted by a local sportswriter as \"Sweet Pea.\" When this erroneous report came out in the local newspaper, the new nickname stuck.\n\nAs of December 2005, Whitaker became a trainer in his home state of Virginia. While the decline of speed and agility pushed him into retirement, his knowledge of the ring and components led him to seek out up-and-coming boxers and train them to fight the way he did.\n\nHis first fighter, Dorin Spivey, had several matches scheduled for 2006. He trained young prospect Joel Julio.\n\nPernell Whitaker was also the trainer for heavyweight Calvin Brock who, as recently as November 2006, fought for the IBF and IBO titles against Wladimir Klitschko, where Brock was knocked out in the 7th round.\n\nIn 2010, Whitaker was inducted into the Hampton Roads Sports Hall of Fame, honoring those who have contributed to sports in southeastern Virginia.\n\nWhitaker also became the head trainer of former undisputed welterweight champion Zab Judah, who defeated Kaizer Mabuza in March 2011 to win the vacant IBF welterweight title.\n\nPernell married Rovanda Anthony on December 21, 1985 in the boxing ring at the Virginia Beach Pavilion Convention Center. The couple later divorced. They had four children together: Dominique, the late Pernell Jr., Dantavious, and Devon. Whitaker also had a daughter, Tiara, from a prior relationship.\n\nIn June 2002, Whitaker was convicted of cocaine possession after a judge found he violated the terms of a previous sentence by overdosing on cocaine in March.\n\nIn February 2014, Whitaker made national headlines after he evicted his mother, Novella Whitaker, out of the house he purchased for her shortly after he turned pro. Apparently, back taxes were owed on the house and Pernell said that neither his mother nor his siblings, who also stayed in the house, were doing anything to help keep the house afloat financially. Pernell's lawyers said that he is not making the same kind of money as a trainer that he was as a boxer, and needed to sell off the home to satisfy the tax debt owed in order to prevent the property from being seized and put into foreclosure. Outside of the Virginia courtroom where the eviction proceedings took place, Whitaker called the ruling in his favor \"a beautiful moment.\"\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "715838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715838", "title": "Persecution and the Art of Writing", "text": "Persecution and the Art of Writing\n\nPersecution and the Art of Writing, published in 1952 by the Free Press, is a book of collected articles written by Leo Strauss. The book contains five previously published essays, many of which were significantly altered by Strauss from their original publication. The general theme of the book is the relationship between politics and philosophy. The thesis of the book is that many ancient and early modern political philosophers, in order to avoid persecution, hid their most heterodox ideas within their texts.\n\nStrauss's general argument—rearticulated throughout his subsequent writings (most notably in \"The City and Man\" – 1964)—is that prior to the 19th century, Western scholars commonly understood that philosophical writing is not at home in any polity, no matter how liberal. Insofar as it questions conventional wisdom at its roots, philosophy must guard itself especially against those readers who believe themselves authoritative, wise, and liberal defenders of the status quo. In questioning established opinions, or in investigating the principles of morality, philosophers of old found it necessary to convey their messages in an oblique manner. Their \"art of writing\" was the art of \"exoteric\" communication. This is all the more apparent in medieval times, when heterodox political thinkers wrote under the threat of the Inquisition or comparably intransigent tribunals.\n\nStrauss's argument is not that the medieval writers he studies reserved one exoteric meaning for the many (\"hoi polloi\") and an esoteric or hidden one for the few (\"hoi aristoi\", literally \"the best\") but rather that their writings' respective core meanings extended beyond and were irreducible to their texts' literal and/or historical dimension.\n\nExplicitly following Gotthold Ephraim Lessing's lead, Strauss indicates that medieval political philosophers, no less than their ancient counterparts, in writing, carefully adapted their wording to the dominant moral views of their time, lest their writings be condemned as heretical or unjust, not by \"the many\" (who did not read), but by those \"few\" whom the many regarded as the most righteous guardians of morality: precisely those few righteous personalities would be most inclined to persecute or ostracize anyone who is in the business of exposing the \"noble\" or \"great lie\" upon which stands or falls the authority of the few over the many.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5598842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5598842", "title": "Peter Dawson (golfer)", "text": "Peter Dawson (golfer)\n\nPeter Dawson (born 9 May 1950) is an English professional golfer.\n\nDawson was born in Doncaster. He was a member of the European Tour in the 1970s and won his sole European Tour title at the 1975 Double Diamond Strokeplay. However his most consistent season by far was 1977, when he finished seventh on the European Tour Order of Merit, that being the only time he made the top thirty. He played in the 1977 Ryder Cup, becoming the first left-handed European to play in the competition. He also represented England in the World Cup that year partnering with Nick Faldo.\n\nSince leaving the European Tour in 1981 he has worked as a golf director and club professional in Hardelot France, and then Penina and Sao Lorenzo, Portugal. He was also to coach the national teams in Denmark (where his students included Thomas Bjørn), Switzerland and Morocco. After turning 50, he played several seasons on the European Seniors Tour, with his best finish of 2nd after a playoff at the Tournament Players Championship at the Belfry.\n\n\"Note: Dawson only played in The Open Championship.\"<br>\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut (3rd round cut in 1979 and 1982 Open Championships)<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n"}
{"id": "25086227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25086227", "title": "Pokémon Jet", "text": "Pokémon Jet\n\nAfter the appearance of Pokémon in 1996, and the resultant Pokémon-related craze, All Nippon Airways unveiled the first Pokémon Jets on 1 July 1998, timed with the release of \"\". The first two to be unveiled were a Boeing 747-400D (JA8965) and a Boeing 767-300 (JA8569), and each displayed a number of the then 151 Pokémon characters, including Pikachu. Due to the popularity of the aircraft, a second 767 was unveiled a matter of weeks later. The three aircraft were introduced on numerous domestic flights in Japan. A fourth aircraft, a Boeing 747-400, was painted in a Pokémon livery in February 1999, and was called the \"US version\" by the airline, as it was put into service on the airline's North American network. The aircraft was identical to the previous three aircraft, except the letters \"ANA\" were kept on the vertical stabiliser, and operated its first flight to New York City's JFK International Airport on 24 February 1999.\n\nAll Nippon Airways announced in March 1999 that a fifth aircraft would be painted in a Pokémon scheme, and a contest was held which saw children between the ages of six and twelve submitting entries. The announcement was timed to coincide with the release of \"\" in Japan in the summer of 1999. The winning design was rolled out at Osaka on 20 June 1999 on a Boeing 747-400D (JA8964), with the same design appearing shortly thereafter on two Boeing 767-300s (JA8288 and JA8357).\n\nIn 2011, a Boeing 777-300 (JA754A) was painted in a Pokémon livery featuring characters from the \"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\" video games. All Nippon Airways had originally intended to allow children to vote on the livery design for this Pokémon Jet, but the voting event was cancelled as a result of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. The aircraft has been dubbed the \"Peace Jet\", as the selected livery design is intended to express the wish for a world filled with peace. This Pokémon Jet was placed into service on the airline's domestic network on 18 July 2011, just two days after \"\" and \"\" were released at movie theaters in Japan.\n\nOctober 8, 2013, JA8956 and JA8957 simultaneously retired as the part of the airline's plan to retire all Boeing 747s, leaving JA754A the only Pokémon Jet in service currently.\n\nOn April 14, 2016, the Pokémon theming of JA754A was removed, thus no Pokémon jets are in operation.\n\nPassengers on the Pokémon Jets receive a complete Pokémania experience. The aircraft and flight crews are decked out in Pokémon themes, including headrests, flight attendant uniforms, food containers, inflight entertainment, and souvenir bags. All Nippon Airways reported that it has experienced an increase in the number of passengers carried as a result of operating the Pokémon Jets.\n\n"}
{"id": "25391053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25391053", "title": "Regulatory feedback network", "text": "Regulatory feedback network\n\nRegulatory feedback networks are neural networks that perform inference using Negative feedback. The feedback is not used to find optimal learning or training weights but to find the optimal activation of nodes. In effect this approach is most similar to a non-parametric method but is different from K-nearest neighbors in that it can be shown to mathematically emulate feedforward neural networks.\n\nRegulatory feedback networks started as a model to explain brain phenomena found during recognition including network-wide bursting and difficulty with similarity found universally in sensory recognition. This approach can also perform mathematically equivalent classification as feedforward methods and is used as a tool to create and modify networks.\n\n"}
{"id": "14770475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14770475", "title": "SS City of Pretoria", "text": "SS City of Pretoria\n\nSS \"City of Pretoria\" was a British cargo steamship. She was torpedoed and sunk in the Second World War with heavy loss of life.\n\nShe was built by Cammell Laird & Co Ltd, at their yards in Birkenhead in 1937. She was operated by Ellerman & Bucknall Steamship Co. Ltd and registered in London. She continued to be operated by Ellerman Lines in the Second World War, making at least one voyage early in the war carrying materiel from New York to France.\n\nHer Chief Officer from 6 August 1939 to 16 August 1939 was Captain Alfred George Freeman who went on to captain several Ellerman Lines ships including SS City of Singapore and a newer SS City of Pretoria from 29 November 1950 to 26 November 1960.\n\nHer final voyage took her from New York, which she departed on 27 February 1943, bound for Liverpool \"via\" Holyhead. She was carrying 7,032 tons of general cargo and 145 passengers and crew. Her master was Frank Deighton. Her high speed meant that it was deemed an acceptable risk to sail unescorted rather than in a convoy.\n\nShe was travelling unescorted through the Atlantic Ocean, when she was sighted on 4 March at 0609 hours by the . The U-boat torpedoed the \"City of Pretoria\", causing her to explode and sink northwest of the Azores. All aboard her, including her master, 108 crew, 24 DEMS gunners, five apprentices and seven passengers were lost with her. The passengers were \"Distressed British Seamen\" (DBS) being repatriated to the UK because their former ships had been sunk.\n\nOne of the passengers was James Allistair Whyte, previously third officer of , who had survived 51 days in a lifeboat after she had been torpedoed and sunk by on 6 November 1942.\n\n"}
{"id": "29553990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29553990", "title": "Sir Thomas Alston, 3rd Baronet", "text": "Sir Thomas Alston, 3rd Baronet\n\nSir Thomas Alston, 3rd Baronet (c. 1676 – December 1714) was an English Member of Parliament.\n\nThomas Alston was the eldest son of Sir Rowland Alston, 2nd Baronet of Odell, Bedfordshire and Temperance Crew; the family included Puritans on both sides. He was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\nAlston succeeded his father as Baronet in 1697. From 1698 to 1701 he was MP for Bedford: it is unclear with which of the Parliamentary groupings his sympathies lay. He died unmarried, probably in London, in December 1714. \"The story that he had wasted his estate and at the time of his death was a prisoner in the Fleet is not borne out by his will, in which the Odell estate and other property in Bedfordshire was left intact and charged with numerous bequests\".\n"}
{"id": "14505071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14505071", "title": "Splenogonadal fusion", "text": "Splenogonadal fusion\n\nSplenogonadal fusion is a rare congenital malformation that results from an abnormal connection between the primitive spleen and gonad during gestation. A portion of the splenic tissue then descends with the gonad. Splenogonadal fusion has been classified into two types: continuous, where there remains a connection between the main spleen and gonad; and discontinuous, where ectopic splenic tissue is attached to the gonad, but there is no connection to the orthotopic spleen. Patients with continuous splenogonadal fusion frequently have additional congenital abnormalities, most commonly cryptorchidism.\n\nThe anomaly was first described in 1883 by Bostroem. Since then more than 150 cases of splenogonadal fusion have been documented. The condition is considered benign. A few cases of testicular neoplasm have been reported in association with splenogonadal fusion. The reported cases have occurred in patients with a history of cryptorchidism, which is associated with an elevated risk of neoplasm.\n\nSplenogonadal fusion occurs with a male-to-female ratio of 16:1, and is seen nearly exclusively on the left side. The condition remains a diagnostic challenge, but preoperative consideration of the diagnosis may help avoid unnecessary orchiectomy. On scrotal ultrasound, ectopic splenic tissue may appear as an encapsulated homogeneous extratesticular mass, isoechoic with the normal testis. Subtle hypoechoic nodules may be present in the mass. The presence of splenic tissue may be confirmed with a technetium-99m sulfur colloid scan.\n"}
{"id": "352481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352481", "title": "Thurman Munson", "text": "Thurman Munson\n\nThurman Lee Munson (June 7, 1947 – August 2, 1979) was an American professional baseball catcher who played 11 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Yankees (1969–1979). A seven-time All-Star, Munson had a career batting average of .292 with 113 home runs and 701 runs batted in (RBIs). Known for his outstanding fielding, he won the Gold Glove Award in three consecutive years (1973–75).\n\nBorn in Akron, Ohio, Munson was selected as the fourth pick of the 1968 MLB draft and was named as the catcher on the 1968 College Baseball All-American Team. Munson hit over .300 in his two seasons in the minor leagues, establishing himself as a top prospect. He became the Yankees' starting catcher late in the 1969 season, and after his first complete season in 1970, in which he batted .302, he was voted American League (AL) Rookie of the Year. Considered the \"heart and soul\" of the Yankees, Munson was named captain of the Yankees in 1976, the team's first since Lou Gehrig. That same year, he won the AL Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award, making him the only Yankee to win the Rookie of the Year and MVP Awards.\n\nMunson led the Yankees to three consecutive World Series appearances from 1976 to 1978, winning championships in the latter two years. He is the first player in baseball history to be named a College Baseball All-American and then in MLB win a Rookie of the Year Award, MVP Award, Gold Glove Award, and World Series championship. He is also the only catcher in MLB postseason history to record at least a .300+ batting average (.357), 20 RBIs (22), and 20 defensive caught stealings (24).\n\nDuring an off day in the summer of 1979, Munson died at age 32 while practicing landing his Cessna Citation aircraft at He suffered a broken neck as result of the crash, and his cause of death was asphyxiation. The Yankees honored him by immediately retiring his and dedicating a plaque to him in Monument Park.\n\nMunson was born in Akron, Ohio to Darrell Vernon Munson and Ruth Myrna Smylie, the youngest of four children. His father was a World War II veteran who became a truck driver while his mother was a homemaker. When he turned eight, the Munson family moved to nearby Canton. He was taught how to play baseball by his older brother Duane, and usually played baseball with kids Duane's age, who were four years older. His brother left to join the United States Air Force while Thurman was a freshman in high school.\n\nMunson attended Lehman High School, where he was captain of the football, basketball, and baseball teams and was all-city and -state in all three sports. He played halfback in football, guard in basketball, and mostly shortstop in baseball. Munson switched to catcher in his senior year in order to handle the pitching prowess of his teammate, Jerome Pruett (a fifth-round draft pick of the St. Louis Cardinals in 1965 who never reached the majors). He attracted scholarship offers from various colleges, and opted to attend nearby Kent State University on scholarship, where he was a teammate of pitcher and broadcaster Steve Stone.\n\nIn the summer of , Munson joined the Cape Cod Baseball League, where he led the Chatham A's to their first league title with a prodigious .420 batting average. In recognition of this achievement and his subsequent professional achievements, the \"Thurman Munson Batting Award\" is given each season to the league's \n\nMunson was selected by the Yankees with the fourth overall pick in the 1968 Major League Baseball draft. In his only full minor league season, he batted .301 with six home runs and 37 runs batted in for the Binghamton Triplets in their final season (), and made his first appearance in Yankee Stadium in August 1968, when the Triplets came to play an exhibition game against the Yankees. He was batting .363 for the Syracuse Chiefs in when he earned a promotion to the New York Yankees.\n\nMunson made his major league debut on August 8, 1969, in the second game of a doubleheader against the Oakland Athletics. Munson went two for three with a walk, one RBI and two runs scored. Two days later, his first major league home run was the second of three consecutive home runs hit by the Yankees off Lew Krausse in a 5-1 Yankee victory over the A's. For the season, Munson batted .256 with one home run and nine RBI. He made 97 plate appearances, but drew ten walks and had one sacrifice fly, which gave him 86 official at bats, and allowed him to go into the season still technically a rookie.\n\nThe Yankees used the pair of Jake Gibbs and Frank Fernández at catcher for most of 1969. During the off season, the Yankees dealt Fernández to the A's. Munson responded by batting .302 with seven home runs and 57 RBI, and making 80 assists en route to receiving the 1970 American League Rookie of the Year award.\n\nMunson received his first of seven All-Star nods in , catching the last two innings without an at-bat. An outstanding fielder, Munson committed only one error all season. It occurred on June 18 against the Baltimore Orioles when opposing catcher Andy Etchebarren knocked Munson unconscious on a play at the plate, dislodging the ball. He also only allowed nine passed balls all season and caught 36 of a potential 59 base stealers for a 61% caught stealing percentage.\n\nMunson was known for his longstanding feud with Boston Red Sox counterpart Carlton Fisk. One particular incident that typified their feud, and the Yankees – Red Sox rivalry in general, occurred on August 1, at Fenway Park. With the score tied at 2–2 in the top of the ninth and runners on first and third, Munson attempted to score from third on Gene Michael's missed bunt attempt.\n\nAs Red Sox pitcher John Curtis let his first pitch go, Munson broke for the plate. Michael tried to bunt, and missed. With Munson coming, Fisk elbowed the Yankee shortstop out of the way and braced for Munson, who barreled into Fisk. Fisk held onto the ball, but Munson remained tangled with Fisk as Felipe Alou, who was on first, attempted to advance. The confrontation at the plate triggered a ten-minute bench-clearing brawl in which both catchers were ejected.\n\nMunson made his second All-Star team and won his first of three straight Gold Glove Awards in 1973. He also emerged as more of a slugger for the Yankees, batting .300 for the first time since 1970, and hitting a career high twenty home runs. In , Munson was elected to start his first of three consecutive All-Star games, going one for three with a walk and a run scored.\n\nMunson batted a career high .318 in , which was third in the league behind Rod Carew and Fred Lynn. For the start of the season, Munson was named the first Yankees team captain since Lou Gehrig retired in . He responded by batting .302 with 17 home runs and 105 RBI to receive the American League MVP Award and lead the Yankees to their first World Series appearance since . He batted .435 with three RBI and three runs scored in the American League Championship Series against the Kansas City Royals, and batted .529 with two RBI and two runs scored in the World Series against the Cincinnati Reds. Already down three games to none, Munson went four for four in the final game of the Series at Yankee Stadium, but New York was swept by the \"Big Red Machine.\" Combined with the hits he got in his final two at bats in game three, his six consecutive hits tied a World Series record set by Goose Goslin of the Washington Senators in .\n\nReds catcher Johnny Bench was named the World Series MVP in 1976. A fairly obvious comparison of opposing backstops was made to Reds manager Sparky Anderson during the post-World Series press conference, to which, Anderson responded, \"Munson is an outstanding ballplayer and he would hit .300 in the National League, but you don't ever compare anybody to Johnny Bench. Don't never embarrass nobody by comparing them to Johnny Bench.\" Munson was visibly upset by these comments when he got on the mic shortly afterwards.\n\nMunson batted .308 with 100 RBI in 1977, giving him three consecutive seasons batting .300 or better with 100 or more RBI each year. He was the first catcher to accomplish the feat in three consecutive years since Yankee Hall of Famer Bill Dickey's four straight seasons from -1939, matched only by Mike Piazza since (–). The Yankees repeated as American League Champions, and faced the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series. Munson batted .320 with a home run and three RBI in the Yankees four games to two victory over the Dodgers. The Dodgers had stolen 114 bases during the regular season, yet Munson caught four of six potential base stealers in the first four games of the series to keep the speedy Dodgers grounded in the final two.\n\nIn 1978, the Yankees and Royals faced each other for the third consecutive time in the ALCS. Tied at a game apiece, and trailing in the bottom of the eighth inning of game three, Munson hit the longest home run of his career, a shot off Doug Bird over Yankee Stadium's Monument Park in left-center field, to give the Yankees a They won the pennant the next day, and went on to beat the Dodgers again in the World Series in six games, winning the final four. Munson batted .320 (8-for-25) with 7 RBI's in this Series and also caught Ron Cey's foul pop-up for the final out.\n\nMunson's World Series championships in 1977 and 1978 made him only the second catcher in baseball history, at the time, to win a Rookie of the Year Award, an MVP Award, a Gold Glove Award, and a World Series title during his career. Johnny Bench had become the first catcher to win all four of these awards when he won his own World Series titles with the Reds in 1975 and 1976. Subsequently, and more recently, when Buster Posey won his first Gold Glove Award in 2016 he also joined this list of three catchers in all of baseball history to win all four awards. But as a further point on unique contributions to the game, since Posey and Munson both were named as College Baseball All-Americans based upon their collegiate baseball careers, they now share the additional distinction of being the only two Catchers in history named to an All-American Team who also own a ROY, MVP, GG, and World Series Title.\n\nThe Yankees had lost three in a row, and were in fourth place, eleven games behind the Baltimore Orioles in the American League East heading into the All-Star break in 1979. Despite a .288 average, the wear-and-tear of catching was beginning to take its toll on Munson, and he was overlooked for the American League All-Star team. Frequently homesick, he had a well-known desire to play for the Cleveland Indians in order to be closer to his family in Canton, and was also considering retiring at the end of the season. At the end of July, the Yankees were still in fourth place at , fourteen games behind \n\nMunson had been flying for over a year and purchased a Cessna Citation I/SP jet so he could fly home to his family in Canton on off-days. On the afternoon of Thursday, August 2, 1979, he was practicing takeoffs and landings at the with friend Jerry Anderson and flight instructor Dave Hall. Shortly after Munson had received clearance for takeoff and three touch-and-go landings on runway 23, which were \n\nWhile on approach for the fourth and final landing on a different runway (19), Munson did not extend the flaps and allowed the aircraft to sink too low before increasing engine power, causing the jet to clip a tree and fall short of the runway. The plane then hit a tree stump and burst into flames, on Greensburg Road, short of runway 19.\n\nHall and Anderson both survived the accident. Hall received burns on his arms and hands, and Anderson received burns on his face, arm and neck. Munson suffered a broken neck and would have most likely suffered from quadriplegia had he lived. Munson died of asphyxiation due to the inhalation of superheated air and toxic \n\nThe National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) investigation into the crash stated that the probable cause was \"...the pilot's failure to recognize the need for, and to take action to maintain, sufficient airspeed to prevent a stall into the ground during an attempted landing. The pilot also failed to recognize the need for timely and sufficient power application to prevent the stall during an approach conducted inadvertently without flaps extended. Contributing to the pilot's inability to recognize the problem and to take proper action was his failure to use the appropriate checklist and his nonstandard pattern procedures which resulted in an abnormal approach profile.\" Munson was not wearing the available shoulder harness restraint, only a lap belt, which contributed to the severity of his injuries.\n\nThe day after his death, before the start of the Yankees' four-game set with the Baltimore Orioles in the Bronx, the team paid tribute to their deceased captain in a pre-game ceremony in which the starters stood at their defensive positions, save for the catcher's box, which remained empty. Following a prayer by Cardinal Terence Cooke, a moment of silence and \"America the Beautiful\" by Robert Merrill, the fans (announced attendance 51,151) burst into an eight-minute standing ovation. Catcher Jerry Narron, who replaced Munson behind the plate that night, remained in the dugout and did not enter the field until stadium announcer Bob Sheppard said, \"And now it is time to play ball. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your co-operation.\"\n\nOn August 6, the entire Yankee team attended Munson's funeral in Canton. Teammates Lou Piniella and Bobby Murcer, who were Munson's best friends, gave eulogies at the gathering of 700 at the Canton Memorial Civic Center. That night before a national viewing audience on ABC's \"Monday Night Baseball\", the Yankees beat the Orioles 5-4 in New York, with Murcer driving in all five runs with a three-run home run in the seventh inning and a two-run single in the bottom of the ninth.\n\nYankee owner George Steinbrenner retired Munson's number 15 immediately upon his catcher's death. On September 20, , a plaque dedicated to Munson's memory was placed in Monument Park. The plaque bears excerpts from an inscription composed by Steinbrenner and flashed on the stadium scoreboard the day after his death:\nThe locker that Munson used, along with a bronzed set of his catching equipment, was donated to the Baseball Hall of Fame. Despite a packed clubhouse, Munson's final locker position was never reassigned. The empty locker next to Yankee team captain Derek Jeter's, with Munson's number 15 on it, remained as a tribute to the Yankees' lost catcher in the original Yankee Stadium until the Stadium closed in 2008. Munson's locker was moved in one piece to the New Yankee Stadium. It is located in the New York Yankees Museum. Visitors can view the Yankees Museum on game days from when the gates open to the end of the eighth inning and during Yankee Stadium tours. Munson's number 15 is also displayed on the center-field wall at Thurman Munson Stadium, a minor-league ballpark in Canton. Munson is buried at Canton's Sunset Hills Burial Park.\n\nA modest, one-block street at Concourse Village East and 156th Street in The Bronx was named Thurman Munson Way in 1979. Two school buildings, which house several schools including Henry Lou Gehrig Junior High School, have since been built on the street.\n\nOn August 1, , the day before the first anniversary of the accident, the Yankees filed a $4.5-million lawsuit against Cessna Aircraft Co. and Flight Safety International, Inc. (the company who was training Munson to fly), with team spokesman John J. McCarty saying \"we asked for $4.5 million because that is what Munson would be worth if the Yankees traded him.\" Munson's widow, Diana, also filed a $42.2 million wrongful death lawsuit against the two companies. Cessna offered Munson a special deal on flying lessons if he would take them from FlightSafety International. Rather than requiring Munson to take a two-week safety class in Kansas, FlightSafety assigned a \"traveling instructor\" to go on the road with him, and train him between ballgames. The suit was eventually settled out of court.\n\nIn September 1968, Munson married Diana Dominick at St. John's Church in Canton. He is survived by Diana and their three children: daughter Tracy, daughter Kelly and son Michael. Diana Munson threw out the ceremonial first pitch at Game 3 of the 1997 World Series in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nMunson had a career .357 batting average in the postseason with three home runs, 22 RBI and 19 runs scored. His batting average in the World Series was .373. Munson threw out 44.48% of base runners who tried stealing a base on him, ranking him 11th on the all-time list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3026531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3026531", "title": "Yonassan Gershom", "text": "Yonassan Gershom\n\nYonassan Gershom is a Rabbi and writer who was ordained in the Jewish Renewal movement during the 1980s and is now a follower of Breslov Hasidism. He was associated with the early days of the B'nai Or movement, a forerunner of Jewish Renewal, in which he was ordained by Rabbi Zalman Schachter-Shalomi in 1986, although he is not in agreement with the direction that the movement has taken in more recent years\n\nGershom lives on a farm in rural Minnesota, where he writes and conducts himself as a \"cyber-rabbi\" on the Internet. In 1997 he made a pilgrimage to the grave of Rabbi Nachman of Breslov in Uman, Ukraine, a trip that has strongly influenced his later writings. Until this point, \"he wasn't aware how much the rural experience shaped Hasidism. It gave him a deeper understanding of Hasidic stories and the Torah.\" He has served on the Advisory Board of the Jewish Vegetarians of North America (JVNA) and is active in the vegetarian and animal welfare movements. In 2013 he was widely quoted as opposing the use of live chickens for Kapparot ceremonies.\n\nGershom is best known for having written several books on the topic of the Holocaust and reincarnation. \"Beyond the Ashes\" and \"From Ashes to Healing\" recount stories of people who claim to have died in the Holocaust and are now reincarnated, while \"Jewish Tales of Reincarnation\" deals with Jewish accounts of reincarnation, including a few from the Holocaust but mostly others from classical Jewish texts and oral tradition.\n\nIn his books on reincarnation, he discusses theories concerning whether Jews who died in the Holocaust did so as punishment for their sins in their previous lives. He argues that in the Jewish conception of evil and reincarnation (as opposed to the conception found in some other religions), suffering in this life is not necessarily punishment for wrongdoing in a previous life. Rather, he argues, undeserved suffering in this life can be purely due to the wrongdoing of the perpetrators and not some punishment for the victims. He does, however, argue that, according to the Jewish concept, wickedness can be accumulated over a succession of reincarnations. Thus, he argues, it is possible that the Nazis committed the Holocaust due to the evil they had accumulated through many lifetimes of persecuting and killing Jews throughout the preceding centuries. He cites that Adolf Hitler might have been a reincarnation of the biblical Amalek.\n\nGershom has appeared on several TV programs in connection with his reincarnation work, including Sightings and Unexplained Mysteries. The Duluth, Minnesota PBS station, WDSE, also featured him on their \"Venture North\" news magazine show in connection with his philosophy on gardening and Jewish spirituality. He appears in the 2007 documentary film, \"A Sacred Duty: Applying Jewish Values to Help Heal the World\", directed by Lionel Friedberg for the Jewish Vegetarians of North America (JVNA).\n\nAlthough he is best known for his books on reincarnation, Gershom is also a lifelong pacifist and peace activist, who has written many articles on Judaism and nonviolence, later collected into an anthology entitled \"Eight Candles of Consciousness.\" He was active in the peace movement in Minneapolis during the 1980s, and publicly protested against the policies of Meir Kahane. He is also a supporter of gay rights, basing his stance on equal rights under the law rather than theology. He graduated from Mankato State University in 1975 with a Bachelor of Science degree in German language and Native American Studies.\n\nOn reincarnation:\n\n\nOn other topics\n\n\n\n"}
