{"id": "29775334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29775334", "title": "2010 Rio de Janeiro security crisis", "text": "2010 Rio de Janeiro security crisis\n\nIn November 2010, there was a major security crisis in the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro and some of its neighboring cities. The city's criminal drug trafficking factions initiated a series of attacks in response to the government placing permanent police forces into Rio's slums.\n\nIn response to the attacks, the local police forces with the aid of the Brazilian Army and Marine Corps initiated a large scale offensive against two of the largest drug trafficking headquarters in the city, located in the Vila Cruzeiro and the neighboring Complexo do Alemão. The operation is considered a success by the government and local media and a large quantity of illegal drugs, weapons and money were confiscated.\n\nViolent acts by drug dealers consisted of incinerating cars, buses and trucks on the streets (over 181 motor vehicles were incinerated), and armed conflicts between the police and the drug dealers at different places of those cities. Being an elevated emergency situation, the local police, along with the BOPE, the Brazilian Army, and the Brazilian Marine Corps had been summoned in order to restore the peace in the city and counter-attack the drug traffickers by taking control of their headquarters in the favelas, located at the group of slums named Complexo do Alemão, which was finally taken by the police around 10:00 am of November, 28.\n\nBy the end of the favela violence, over 40 people (almost all of them criminals) had been killed in the conflict and over 200 people arrested. Though the attacks ended, the police and military forces still occupy the Complexo do Alemão, the largest favela in the city of Rio de Janeiro.\n\n\nJust after the occupation of the Complexo do Alemão and Vila Cruzeiro by the Army, the attacks on vehicles stopped and crisis came to an end. The police managed to apprehend around 40 tonnes of marijuana and 250 kilos of cocaine along with many other illicit drugs, dozens of weapons including pistols, assault rifles, explosives, machine guns, hundreds of stolen motorcycles and more than 30 stolen cars. The drugs were destroyed while the police were charged with the task of returning the stolen vehicles to their rightful owners. The losses suffered by the criminals are stated to surpass 200 million reais (around 120 million US dollars), not including the confiscated houses belonged to the faction's main leaders, fully equipped with many luxury items including multiple pools, jacuzzis and high level electronic hardware.\n\nThrough a deal between the State government and the Federal government, the troops will remain stationed in the occupied area until a permanent police force is installed to maintain security. Despite the fact that most of the criminals managed to escape, the operation is considered by the local media as a major victory against crime in Rio de Janeiro and a turning point in the war against drug trafficking in Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "51506404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51506404", "title": "2016 clown sightings", "text": "2016 clown sightings\n\nThe 2016 clown sightings were reports of people disguised as armed evil clowns in incongruous settings, such as near forests and schools. The incidents were reported in the United States, Canada, and subsequently in other countries and territories from August 2016. The sightings were first reported in South Carolina when a 9-year-old boy told his mother that two suspicious males dressed as clowns tried to lure him into the nearby woods. By mid-October 2016, clown sightings and attacks had been reported in nearly all U.S. states, 9 out of 13 provinces and territories of Canada, and 18 other countries.\n\nPrior to the spate of incidents in 2016, numerous sightings of people dressed as clowns in odd or incongruous settings have occurred throughout the world since 2013. The proliferation of videos and images of these precursor sightings spread through social media posts and viral sharing of the content, most notably from DM Pranks, a YouTube user from Perugia, Italy.\n\nWhile most of the 2016 incidents appeared to be wholly unsubstantiated or lacked evidence of criminal activity (with many incidents being deemed practical jokes), a few led to arrests. Some people were cited or arrested for making violent threats to schools, and some incidents involved robberies and assaults on children and adults.\n\nBy mid-October 2016, in the wake of hundreds of \"clown sightings\" in the United States and Canada, the phenomenon had spread from North America to Europe, Israel, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, and South America.\n\nOne possible precursor event was the 2013 sightings of a \"creepy clown\" in Northampton, England. The Northampton clown sightings, which were in the town during September and October 2013, were the work of three local filmmakers Alex Powell, Elliot Simpson, and Luke Ubanski. The clown shared similar looks to Pennywise the Dancing Clown from Stephen King's book \"It\". The trio started a Facebook page for the so-called \"Northampton clown\" and were using the appearances to drive traffic to the page.\n\nIn March 2014, Matteo Moroni from Perugia, Italy, owner of the YouTube channel DM Pranks, began dressing up as an evil clown and terrifying unsuspecting passersby, with his videos racking up hundreds of millions of views. A rash of sightings appeared in California in October 2014, which centered around the \"Wasco clown\", and primarily occurred in the Wasco, California area with photos appearing on social media.\n\nA person in clown attire was spotted in a cemetery in Chicago, Illinois in July 2015. This occurrence involved two residents who spotted the \"creepy clown\" scaling the gate at the Rosehill Cemetery late at night. After the clown entered the cemetery, they turned to face the residents and began waving slowly as they made a video recording. After waving for a few seconds, the clown ran into a dark wooded area and was not seen again. Police investigation of the sighting did not lead to any arrests.\n\nThe 2016 clown phenomenon began in Greenville, South Carolina in early August, followed by incidents in Canada shortly afterward. It later spread around the U.S.\n\nIn early October 2016, further incidents were reported in Canada and the first occurrences in the United Kingdom and Australia. British communities were described as \"horrified\" and pressure had been placed on police resources.\n\nThroughout this time, Internet social media sites received numerous postings related to the phenomenon. The World Clown Association president Randy Christensen took a stance against the current trend of people dressing up as clowns to frighten people. \nCircuses and other clown-related businesses were affected. In October 2016, McDonald's decided that Ronald McDonald would keep a lower profile as a result of the incidents. A sociologist has called 2016 \"a bad time to be a professional clown\". The killer clown craze has been linked to a significant increase in sales of clown suits in and near Glasgow, Scotland. During Halloween, some Floridians decided to go armed while trick-or-treating.\n\nOn October 12, the Russian Embassy in London issued a warning for Russian and British citizens because of the clown scare.\n\nOn October 13, Fijian police warned people against involvement in the events.\n\nSeveral New Zealand shops have withdrawn clown costumes from their shelves. The East Side Union High School District, the West Milford school district, Ohio school district, and Springboro Community Schools, issued a blanket ban on all clown costumes and clown masks in addition to previously existing policies and restrictions. Target has pulled clown masks from its website and stores as a result of the scare, as has Canadian Tire. The village of Memramcook, New Brunswick asked residents not to dress up as clowns on Halloween. Employees of theme parks were instructed to remove any horror costumes and make-up before leaving work.\n\nBy October 25, 2016, several news outlets reported on an alleged clown-initiated \"purge\" or \"attack\", which supposedly was to take place on Halloween Eve of 2016. While there were no widespread \"purge\" attacks as threatened, a family from Florida were attacked on October 31, 2016 by a group of approximately 20 people in clown masks (and masks styled after \"The Purge\" movie). No arrests were made.\n\nThe sightings inspired the upcoming horror film titled \"Behind the Sightings\", directed by Tony Cadwell.\n\nOn October 7, several of these sightings were reported in Campbelltown, New South Wales. Four images of sightings in the city were uploaded onto the Internet and one showed a clown being knocked to the ground. Since October 7, there have been multiple sightings across major Australian cities, which include Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, and Perth.\n\nOn October 8, at around 9:30 PM, two 12-year-old girls were with one of their fathers buying ice cream when suddenly, they were attacked by a creepy clown in Adelaide's CBD (Central Business District) near the intersection of Pultney Street and Rundle Street. While attacking the girls, the clown tried to steal one of the girls' phone.\n\nIn October, a sighting was recorded in Curitiba.\n\nThe incidents in Brazil and worldwide led to professional clowns protesting in Rio Grande do Sul in late October.\n\nOn October 5, in Edmonton, Harry Ainlay High School was put into lock down due to clown scares on social media. The following day, other incidents in the city were reported at a Catholic school and junior high schools. As well, two incidents of sightings occurred in Fort Saskatchewan, a city direct northeast of Edmonton. Later, a 15-year-old youth admitted dressing up as one of the clowns to RCMP in Fort Saskatchewan.\n\nElsewhere in the province, the Calgary Police Service received messages from several Calgarians regarding images depicting people dressed as clowns in the city.\n\nOn October 6, two teenaged boys dressed as clowns were placed under arrest, following a threat which made schools in the Prince George area be locked down. The teenagers, aged 16 and 17, were arrested at a high school in the area.\n\nPolice are investigating several encounters with creepy clowns in New Brunswick communities. A person dressed as a clown was seen trying to jump out in front of cars in Ripples.\n\nA complaint about a \"creepy clown\" sighting was received by local authorities, prompting an investigation in Gander, central Newfoundland.\n\nIn early October, people dressed as clowns were sighted in Halifax, Hammonds Plains, and Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.\n\nPolice responded to a sighting at Halifax West High School. People dressed as clowns in Glace Bay have also interfered with traffic.\nPolice in Clark's Harbour arrested a 24-year-old man wearing a clown mask. Witnesses reported that he grabbed at the clothing of a young boy.\n\nIn the first half of October, there were several reports of people dressed as clowns in the hamlet of Rankin Inlet, Nunavut.\n\nIn early October, people dressed as clowns were spotted chasing children during dismissal at Pope Francis Catholic School, an elementary school in Toronto. Police detained two 15-year-olds in connection with the incident. It is believed they are former students of the school and they were filming their activities for a YouTube video. Police have said that the suspects did not touch the students.\nIn addition, the Toronto Catholic District School Board spokesperson John Yan said that a group named \"Clowns in the 6\" have specifically named different high schools in Toronto as targets for potential clown attacks.\n\nOn October 6, 2016, a group of people dressed as clowns made a message on an Instagram account saying: \"We are coming to London, Ontario's high schools and surrounding areas. We are going to kidnap students and behead teachers, we're not clowning around.\" The account gained attention in the city of London as well as Saint Thomas and surrounding towns and municipalities. A few days later, a student at Mother Teresa Catholic Secondary School in North London was approached by a man wearing a clown costume. The man sprinted at her, coming close to the school itself. Numerous students captured photos on the social media application Snapchat, as the man ran from the property. Clarke Road Secondary School and H.B. Beal Secondary School were both put under lock-downs during the following days. During the height of this \"clown epidemic\", London District Catholic School Board banned students from wearing clown costumes during Halloween celebrations that year.\n\nOn August 9, people dressed as clowns were reported to have been chasing children in Gatineau, Quebec.\n\nOn October 2, a video surfaced of a person dressed as a clown in the middle of a dirt road in Quebec, with a chainsaw that chased after a car on foot. On October 14, in Montreal, a teenager was chased by a clown with a baseball bat; he called the police, but the culprit was never found.\n\nIn October, a male dressed as a clown was filmed walking around with a baseball bat in Rancagua, Cachapoal Province, pursuing the recorder and his group of friends.\n\nSightings in Croatia begun on October 16 in Osijek, then followed in other cities, such as Karlovac and Trilj. Some teenagers allegedly beat a person dressed as a clown in Osijek and on October 21, the first three people dressed as clowns were arrested in Karlovac. On October 22, another person dressed as a clown was arrested in Varaždin. Croatian minister of interior affairs Vlaho Orepić said in an interview for RTL TV that Croatian police would deal with that issue and ensure safety of citizens.\n\nPolice districts across the country have received 22 reports of sightings in total by October 17, 2016.\n\nOn October 12, 2016, a man was driving home from a football match when he spotted an axe-wielding male dressed as a clown standing in the middle of the road. The man nearly hit the clown, who was later revealed to be a 13-year-old boy.\n\nOn October 14, a man in Holbæk was followed by a male dressed as a clown. He managed to punch the clown in the face. Police stated that both parties risked prosecution.\n\nOn October 18, there were two sightings of people dressed as clowns in Tuusula. First, around 10 people dressed as clowns jumped out of a grey van at the playyard of school. They started to hunt down three kids who escaped to an underpass, where another clown was waiting with a chainsaw. Later, two adults with white overalls and pig masks were running behind at least one child and scared teenagers. On the evening of 22 October in the Kallio district of Helsinki, two clowns jumped in front of a 30-year-old man, who was jogging with his dog. The dog bit one and the man punched another of the clowns. However, the clowns managed to escape. The man made a police report of the incident, and the police did not find the suspects. There were also sightings of people dressed as clowns in Turku, Luvia, Vaasa, Rovaniemi, Porvoo, Espoo, Vantaa, Nurmijärvi, Kotka, Rauma, Riihimäki, Savonlinna, Oulu, Kerimäki, Pieksämäki, Varkaus and Leppävirta.\n\nOn October 15, at 2:00 AM in Wesel, two men reported a man in a clown mask carrying a knife and gun.\n\nOn October 21, people dressed as clowns were reported in two northern German towns. One wielding a baseball bat in the city of Rostock attacked a man, leaving him with bruises. Another in the same town threatened a 15-year-old with a knife. In nearby Greifswald, two separate reports involved a clown wielding a chain saw. Two other incidents in Greifswald involved young children being scared by someone dressed as a clown.\n\nOn October 25, a 16-year-old masked as a clown was stabbed with a knife by a 14-year-old in Berlin. The 16-year-old had to undergo surgery.\n\nOn October 29, the German Interior Ministry announced a \"zero-tolerance policy\" against creepy clown attire ahead of Halloween. It was reported that over the past several weeks in Germany, there had been 30 reports of incidents involving attacks, robberies, or assaults.\n\nThere were many reports of incidents regarding people dressed as clowns, but no arrests were made.\n\nOn 10 October 2016, organizers of a Halloween haunted house attraction apologised after three people dressed as evil clowns and carrying imitation chainsaws frightened students in the grounds of Newpark Comprehensive School in Blackrock, Dublin. The clowns were said to be publicising the attraction and unaware that the grounds were private property. The attraction's spokesperson said it was \"'in no way linked' to the 'creepy clown' craze sweeping across the UK and US\". After the incident police said they are taking the clown craze seriously and reports will be investigated. After the statement it was reported that a clown with an axe broke into a home in County Kildare, and scared a child. There were reports of clowns jumping out of bushes to scare schoolchildren. In mid October Dundalk police issued a warning saying \"A number of people have been hurt as part of this craze and we are advising people not to take part in it\" and that \"It could be considered a breach of the Public Order Act or the Offences Against the Person Act.\"\n\nOn October 5, residents of Monterrey, Nuevo León made warnings on Facebook that thieves dressing as clowns were present in the area. The Facebook group's alert said that the clowns assaulted a passersby, who were walking home.\n\nOn the early morning of October 7, several news sources reported that two males dressed as clowns were found dead in Ecatepec, a suburb of Mexico City, possibly due to being beaten to death by a group of people after the clowns were scaring people. This turned out to be false. The news sites reporting the incident used a photo of two clowns murdered in Guatemala in March 2015.\n\nSightings were reported in several New Zealand cities, such as in Auckland where a creepy clown was caught on camera at the University of Auckland library.\n\nA man dressed as a clown was arrested in Dunedin for scaring passersby. Four people dressed as clowns stood outside a teenager's home, threatening to kill her.\n\nIn the first half of October, a woman was attacked by two people dressed as clowns.\n\nIn the second half of October, a person dressed as a clown stole a box of beer and handed it to a bicycling accomplice.\n\nA woman's three sons were playing basketball at Discovery School in Porirua and one of the sons was approached by a person dressed as a clown. The mother then called the police. A police spokesperson urged for the community to be calm.\n\nIn mid-October 2016, a male wearing a clown mask was a tyre-slashing suspect in Timaru.\n\nOn October 10, various incidents were reported of a person dressed as a clown wielding a knife chasing and scaring children in Almere Buiten. The police have started an official investigation to find the person responsible and have publicly requested that they identify themselves and to stop causing public unrest.\n\nA person dressed as a clown was sighted in Ruwaard on October 10 and 11.\n\nOn October 14, a 17-year-old boy dressed as a clown was arrested in Roermond, Limburg for jumping towards drivers and scaring them.\n\nOn October 11, in Bodø, two youths wearing clown masks were wielding bats and sticks and scaring people. The two turned themselves in to authorities later that night.\n\nIn Eidsvåg, a sighting was reported at a petrol station.\n\nOn October 29, a 19-year-old man filmed himself dressed up as a creepy clown and jumping out towards people. The next day, the man was detained by Singapore Police at his home and taken to a police station for questioning for several hours. It was the first known and only reported clown scare incident in Asia.\n\nIn mid-October, a person dressed as a creepy clown was filmed standing near a road in Lleida.\n\nAlso, some sightings were reported in Paterna (Valencian Community). The City Council called for calm and issued guidelines for neighbors to know how to act.\n\nOn October 28, a case was reported in Madrid Metro, in Loranca Station (Fuenlabrada), when a young girl was\nassailed by two people dressed as clowns.\n\nSince the week starting October 10, sightings have been reported in numerous cities: Stockholm, Malmö, Timrå, Ronneby, Linköping, Mjölby, and Falun.\n\nOn October 12, a person in the clown mask stabbed a 19-year-old boy with a knife in his shoulder in Tvååker.\n\nOn October 13, a woman in Skänninge reported that she was threatened by a pair of clowns armed with knives. The following day, a man in Varberg was injured by a knifeman wearing a clown mask.\n\nBy mid-October, Swedish police were reportedly \"overwhelmed\" as a result of emergency calls due to clown sightings and incidents taking place across the country. On October 13, Swedish Interior Minister, Anders Ygeman, urged Swedes not to join in the clown craze.\n\nIn the third week of October, at least three sightings were reported in Zürich. One was reported to be violent, in which a person wearing a clown mask punched a person in the stomach.\n\nNorthumbria Police stated that 6 reports have been made about clown incidents since the beginning of October. Although nobody was attacked during those incidents, some of the reports involve clowns in Newcastle upon Tyne jumping out of bushes to frighten children with other reports of clowns chasing people. On October 4, a teenage boy in Blakelaw, Newcastle upon Tyne, was placed under arrest as a suspect in a clown-themed \"prank\".\n\nOn October 7, a masked man with a painted face and carrying a knife, jumped out and chased two students, aged 11 and 12, who were on their way to Hermitage Academy in Chester-le-Street, County Durham, leaving the two students distressed, but unhurt. Durham Constabulary said it was investigating the incident. That same night, a man in Plymouth, South West England, was confronted by a clown with a hammer while walking home from a Tesco supermarket. The clown stood in front of the man, blocking his path and then refused to move when asked, before the man chased the clown away. Devon and Cornwall Police were investigating the incident.\n\nOn October 9, a 30-year-old man dressed as a clown was arrested after chasing a woman through Eaton Park in Norwich, East Anglia.\n\nOn October 10, a gang of three people dressed as clowns were spotted in Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire. Kent Police reported there had been 59 clown-related incidents between October 7 and 10. On 11 October a teenage boy was hospitalized for a cut to his head after a clown threw a log at him in an alleyway in Dinnington, South Yorkshire, near Rotherham. South Yorkshire Police launched an investigation into the attack.\n\nOn October 12, a tradesman in Blackburn, Lancashire apparently tackled a knife-wielding man dressed as a clown and suffered serious hand injuries. The clown was said to have had a green wig and was wearing a \"silky green tracksuit with yellow lines down the sleeves and long, Gothic black boots.\" It was later revealed to be a hoax – the man had simply fallen on broken glass and fabricated the clown attack. He was prosecuted for wasting the time of Lancashire Police.\n\nOver a weekend, in mid-October, the Thames Valley Police were called to 14 incidents in less than 24 hours.\n\nAccording to Police Scotland, there have been several reports about people dressed as clowns intimidating the public.\n\nA former \"X Factor\" contestant claimed to be chased by a \"killer clown\" in possession of a baseball bat outside a nightclub in Aberdeen.\n\n\"Killer clowns\" sightings in Dunbar caused traffic jams and were apparently chasing after children. A clown was spotted and filmed crossing a road near the town's Asda supermarket.\n\n\"Killer clowns\" have been jumping out of bushes to scare pedestrians in Perth and Dundee.\n\nA man walking his dog spotted a \"killer clown\" near a primary school in Motherwell. The clown ran away after it was revealed that he is scared of dogs, as it is clear in the video that the man filmed.\n\n10 year old children living in Inverness reported seeing a \"killer clown\" at a play park who was armed with an unknown weapon. One of the children ran home, leaving her scooter behind. Her older sister, along with her boyfriend, went back to the play park to get the scooter but it was gone, realising that the clown had stolen it.\n\nOn 27 October 2016, \"killer clowns\" were spotted at two schools in Livingston and one school in Bathgate. Pupils at schools in Livingston were locked into classrooms, fearing a break-in from the clowns.\n\nOn October 5, a boy filmed a person dressed as a clown scaring passing drivers in Caernarfon.\n\nOn October 7, a 10-year-old schoolboy in Tredegar, South Wales was left with a large bruise after a stone was thrown at him by someone dressed in a clown costume.\nA person dressed as a clown who was seen frightening people in the street in Rhyl, who was stopped by police, was revealed to be a wanted man, and another person dressed as a clown was also seen in Merthyr.\n\nOn October 10, a girl aged 10 in Bridgend was left scared when four people, wearing clown masks and carrying a \"sledgehammer\", approached her in a park. That same night, Chief Inspector Paul Staniforth of Gwent Police said: \"We've now received 18 reports of people dressed up as clowns throughout Gwent. Some of the reports have included clowns running through gardens and peering through windows, lurking around shopping centres, parks and schools and jumping from trees.\"\n\nOn October 5, a number of people dressed as clowns were spotted in Belfast. On October 7, a school in Coleraine had closed its doors for a short time because of fears that people dressed as clowns were on their way to the school. On 7 October a clown threatened children with a knife in Riverside Park, Ballymoney, County Antrim. On Instagram an account called 'killerclownsballymoney' said a clown would be \"waiting at Ballymoney High school gates at 3:55 and on Mondays it'll be Dalriada at 2:40\". On social media, an image appeared of a clown stood outside Cullybackey College in the village of Cullybackey The police released a video in which they urged people not to participate in the craze and said they faced the possibility of being arrested. On October 12, Holy Trinity College, Cookstown, County Tyrone was locked down after a threat on social media, police officers were deployed to the school and the front gate was closed. UUP politician Trevor Wilson condemned the threat. By mid October 10 children had received NSPCC counselling over fears of the clowns. A school in Ballycastle, County Antrim banned the wearing of clown costumes to a Halloween party taking place during school. Three people dressed as clowns were arrested by police after they scared people in Mullacreevie Park, County Armagh.\n\nAfter originally occurring in South Carolina, the sightings and threats spread to more than four-fifths of the country's states, the District of Columbia, and the territory of Puerto Rico.\n\nIn the second and third weeks of September, a total of 9 people were arrested across Alabama for threats. Seven of them faced felony charges. A 14-year-old was arrested for a misdemeanor charge for threatening Rainbow Middle School in Rainbow City. Two teenage juveniles were arrested in Calhoun County, one for making threats to shoot up a Saks middle school, and the other for a charge of \"child in need of supervision.\" In Escambia County, a 22-year-old woman and two juveniles were arrested on terroristic threat charges for a September 15 threat against a school.\n\nOn October 8 and 9, a woman posted on Facebook that her daughter saw a clown near Floyd Dryden Middle School in Juneau and that on the night of October 10, her co-worker was chased while in her car by two clowns who were holding metal objects.\n\nTwo 17-year-olds robbed a Phoenix Taco Bell and Domino's Pizza while wearing clown masks. Both of the alleged robbers were armed with weapons, and a gun was fired once during one of the robberies, but no one was injured. The two were arrested for robbery.\n\nPeople dressed as clowns were reported in Lowell near the elementary schools. A person dressed as a clown was arrested in Downtown Bentonville, Arkansas on October 5, 2016.\n\nOn October 4, people dressed as clowns threatened Fairfield, Sacramento, and Vallejo public school campuses. A clown sighting was reported in Temecula.\n\nOn October 5, a person dressed as a clown was accused of trying to kidnap a 1-year-old child from his mother in Concord. No arrests have been made.\n\nThat same night, in the Los Angeles County city of Lancaster, three incidents of groups of people wearing clown masks and possibly armed with kitchen knives were reported to the police. In San Pedro, Los Angeles, two clowns were spotted by employees at Taper Avenue Elementary School & Technology Magnet. One clown allegedly had the writing \"killer\" printed on his mask. In Northridge, Los Angeles, at California State University, Northridge, two students were chased down by a lone clown in the campus.\n\nA 14-year-old from Fontana was arrested for making clown-related threats towards schools.\n\nOn October 6, people dressed as clowns were spotted at multiple schools including ones in Moreno Valley, Sacramento, and Beaumont. One clown allegedly walked around the school campus with a sign that read \"WEARECOMINGTOCALI.\" The Huntington Beach Police Department received reports of two separate clown sightings in Huntington Beach: one near a community park and two near a shopping center.\n\nOn the same day, the Rohnert Park Department of Public Safety launched an investigation in response to nine clown sightings being reported in the city in the past few days. In nearby Santa Rosa, the Santa Rosa City Schools worked with the Santa Rosa Police Department to investigate clown-related threats made to the district's schools, which were apparently hoaxes. Social media reports of potential clown-related activity in the Bay Area's Antioch and Oakland schools lead to investigations by city police investigations. Schools in Pittsburg banned students from wearing any makeup for Halloween due to the clown scare.\n\nThe Marysville police arrested a juvenile on a felony charge for making clown-related threats of shooting people at Yuba County schools.\n\nAn 11-year-old boy from Salinas was cited for cyberbullying on October 8 for making clown threats towards Alisal Elementary School District schools.\n\nOn October 10, a \"creepy clown\" was spotted and photographed on a MUNI bus in San Francisco; the clown flipped off the photographer after she took the photo.\n\nOn October 16, a person dressed as a clown holding a knife approached a man sitting on his porch outside his house in Santa Clarita, and the home owner fired a gun in the air, scaring the clown. A person dressed as a clown was arrested by Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department deputies for possession of burglary tools, although the department speculated that the clown arrested was not connected to the one who was holding the knife. The home owner was taken into custody after deputies found drugs and firearms in his home.\n\nOn October 23, three men were initially reported to be wearing clown masks and carrying a gun inside the Westfield San Francisco Centre, although it was later reported that the three men were carrying the masks. Mall security reported that the clowns fled the scene after seeing them.\n\nOn October 23, sightings of a suspect dressed as a clown in UC Davis's West Village Apartment complex were reported to the police. Media coverage and police bulletins publicized the suspect as wielding an unidentifiable weapon and harassing residents.\n\nOn September 30, in Denver, a student reported to the police that a person dressed as a clown grabbed her.\n\nIn late September, clown-related threats of violence were made to Jefferson County School District, Poudre High School, Palisade High School, Grand Junction High School, Northridge High School.\n\nOn October 6, an altercation occurred between a clown and a man at the Pikes Peak Greenway Trail in Colorado Springs. The man allegedly asked the clown to identify himself, who refused to do so, and the man punched the clown in the face. The clown then allegedly hit a bottle of whiskey over the man's head, resulting in him bleeding. No arrests have been made in the case.\n\nNew Haven High schools, such as Eli Whitney, Wilbur Cross, Co-Op, and James Hillhouse, were threatened by \"Jackson the Clown\" on social media. Two girls were later arrested for the threats.\n\nOn October 13, New Britain High School was placed on lock down following a clown-related incident at the school. A 35-year-old woman and a 39-year-old man were arrested for a breach of peace, and were driving in a car with clown masks and blaring loud music.\n\nIn October 2016, 2 juvenile girls in Naugatuck were charged in connection with making online threats involving \"scary clowns\".\n\nAlso in October 2016, Meriden saw a rash of scary clown sightings and incidents.\n\nThe Delaware State Police and University of Delaware Police received reports of clown sightings.\n\nTwo high school students in Smyrna were arrested and charged with felony terroristic threatening and conspiracy after making threats of clowns committing violence against other students on Instagram. The high school was evacuated and an explosive detection K9 team swept and cleared the building.\n\nNumerous reports of sightings have been received by the Indian River County Sheriff's Office. In Indian River County, on September 28, while walking her dog, a woman reported seeing a person in a clown costume come out from behind a tree. The person was dressed in a white clown costume, wore a mask, and had red hair.\n\nOn September 28, a group of classmates in the Vero Lake Estates area were chased by someone in a clown mask after getting off a bus.\n\nA woman near Victoria Park reported sighting two people dressed as clowns staring at her. Police alerted agencies in the surrounding area. They also conducted a search of railroad tracks and forest areas near U.S. highway 1, but were unable to find them.\n\nNumerous Floridian schools were also put under lock down due to the scare. Additionally, threats arose on social media from people masquerading as clowns, where they threaten to cause a school shooting. One of these \"killer clowns\" was discovered to be a 12-year-old boy, who said he was going to kill students at Pasco County schools and was subsequently arrested.\n\nOn October 15, two men, ages 18 and 20, were involved in two incidents in Melbourne where they dressed as clowns and chased people while carrying an ax and a baseball bat. They were also involved with a third incident on October 20. In one of the incidents, one of the clowns was reported to have jumped in front of a person and threaten to kill him or her. On October 27, they were arrested and one was charged with assault and the other was charged with principal in the first degree.\n\nOn October 23, a 26-year-old Mount Dora man was arrested for illegally possessing a rifle with a scratched out serial number. The man had a clown mask, and ran from Lake County deputies, which resulted in a physical altercation.\n\nSome parents said they would be arming themselves on Halloween night to protect their children.\n\nOn Halloween night, a group of about 20 people in clown masks and masks from the movie \"The Purge\", allegedly attacked two people who were checking their cars in Orange County. One man was stabbed and injured, and another was assaulted with a hockey stick.\n\nThe LaGrange Police Department received reports of people dressed as clowns in a van luring children on September 12. Two people were later arrested for falsely reporting a clown sighting, and four were arrested for making a \"terroristic threat\" involving clown costumes. Dublin Police Chief Tim Chatman stated that an individual involved in a car accident reported seeing a clown and swerved to avoid the clown, although no one saw a clown at the time of the incident.\n\nOn October 6, an Instagram post by a group of people dressed as clowns threatened violence to Wai'anae Intermediate, a school in Wai'anae. The U.S. Army Garrison-Hawaii was also involved.\n\nIn early October, reports of people dressed as clowns walking around school campuses and around streets, some armed with metal weapons, were made in eastern Idaho, including Blackfoot.\n\nOn October 4, multiple students at Greenwood Elementary School reported that three people dressed as clowns, one with a briefcase, one with a handgun, and one with a knife, stood on the edge of the school's property and threatened the students. The people dressed as clowns reportedly made threats to the students, and fled in an SUV. The incident is being investigated by the Waukegan Police Department. A call to the Waukegan Police Department responded in a report that the children were found out to have made it up.\n\nOn October 5, a 20-year-old man in Altamont, Illinois was arrested for disorderly conduct allegedly wearing a clown mask and holding a chainsaw, scaring a woman and child.\n\nOn October 11, an 18-year-old man with a clown mask was arrested for allegedly chasing two people with a metal baseball bat in Urbandale.\n\nOn September 27, 2016, a person dressed as a clown was spotted creeping in the bushes near the intersection of 85th Street and Parallel Parkway in Kansas City, Kansas.\n\nOn October 1, 2016, in Topeka, a clown was spotted near the intersection of Southeast 37th Street and Southeast Adams Street. Again in Topeka, a few days later on the morning of October 4, 2016, children waiting at a bus stop in the 2400 block of Southeast Colonial Drive witnessed a clown with a knife chasing a 13-year-old girl; however, by the time police arrived, the clown disappeared and was not seen again.\n\nDuring the day of October 4, in nearby Lawrence several people reported seeing clowns lurking around the University of Kansas campus, with many witnesses posting photos to social media. The clown sightings caused one sorority to go into lockdown. People dressed as clowns were also spotted in Lawrence near Free State High School, however upon investigation, those clowns were found to be harmless and were merely waving at passing cars.\nReports of clowns have also been made in the Kansas cities of Chanute, Pittsburg, and Parsons; however the Parsons report was later revealed to be a hoax.\n\nOn September 23, 20-year-old Jonathan Martin was arrested for wearing a hood or mask in a public place, disorderly conduct and two outstanding warrants for non-payment of fines and failure to appear in court. Martin was found in a full clown costume, lurking in wooded area near a Kentucky apartment block.\n\nOn October 1, a woman reported that while she was walking on a trail at night, a clown came out of the woods, assaulted her and attempted to drag her into the woods. Officials reported that the woman was able to fight the clown off and escape, while also stating that this is the first clown sighting in Clark County.\n\nOn the same day, a man in Bardstown mistook a woman wearing a white afghan out walking her dog for a clown and fired a warning shot with an AR-15 to scare her.\n\nThroughout the month of September police received multiple reports of \"creepy clown\" in both Bowling Green and Glasgow.\n\nIn late September in Louisville there were multiple reports to police stating that 5 to 6 people wearing clown costumes were sighted cruising around the downtown area at night in a white van.\n\nOn October 15, a 21-year-old man was arrested after an incident in Rosepine of him wearing a clown mask and brandishing a gun at drivers, while he was driving his car.\n\nOn October 4, a person dressed as a clown was reported to have stood in an Orono neighborhood for approximately 15 minutes. There have also been sightings in Standish, Bangor, Kennebunk, Gorham Porter, Portland, Saco, Waterboro and Wells.\n\nIn October, clown-themed accounts through different social media outlets began sending out threats to shoot PGCPS county schools.\n\nOn October 3, Monday night, students at Merrimack College were briefly told to shelter in place and a residence hall was evacuated after someone reported an armed clown on campus. Police at Emmanuel College received an “inundation of calls” of sightings on campus shortly after midnight Tuesday. A similar incident was reported at UMass Amherst the same Monday night, as well as additional reports in Lowell and other various localities.\n\nAt 2:11 AM, on September 22, a person dressed as a clown was reported to police by a Vermontville man. The clown was seen walking on M-79 highway in Nashville.\nAt 6:30 am on October 4 Middle School Students waiting at a bus stop in Allegan County, MI saw a clown emerge from a woods, run towards some other students, then disappear into the woods.\nAt 3 am in the early morning of October 2, 2016, 17-year-old Chris Henckel spotted a clown standing at a car wash in Clinton Township, a suburb of Detroit, while driving through the area with friends. While Henckel was not approached or harmed by the clown, he says that it attempted to follow his car. Henckel posted a video of the encounter on Twitter, where it went viral. Clinton Township police declined to investigate the incident, as Henckel was unharmed and they have not received any reports or complaints of strange clowns in the area. Henckel said he drove by the carwash multiple times afterwards in an attempt to find the clown again, but it has not reappeared.\n\nTwo days later, on October 4, 2016, two attacks were reported in Sterling Heights, another Detroit suburb in close vicinity to Clinton Township. In the first incident, a 7-year-old boy was approached outside of his home at 6:50 pm by a person of an unspecified gender with \"red hair, a red nose and red facial features\" wielding a sharp object; the clown scratched the boy's arm with the object then fled, the boy only suffering a minor injury. Later that night at 8:30 pm, two women walking reported being approached by three adult males in clown masks, one of which was wielding a baseball bat, who screamed obscenities, hit the bat against an adjacent fence and then ran away. Sterling Heights police are investigating both incidents and are seeking help from the public. On the same day, the police department of the Detroit suburb of Troy, which borders Sterling Heights, issued a notice that any clowns spotted trespassing at schools or on any private property will be automatically arrested and detained. The notice came after reports of clowns being spotted at area schools during classroom hours, as well as clown-related threats being made to area schools on Twitter. They also stated concern for the safety of the clowns, who they fear could be harmed by frightened civilians who may attempt to defend themselves.\n\nAlso on October 6, two 14-year-old girls were terrorized by two teenage women dressed as clowns, who jumped out of a car and chased them. In a press release after their arrest, the Roseville police chief referred to them as \"morons\" and \"idiots\".\n\nA 15-year-old girl from Bloomington created a \"Kroacky Klown\" Facebook profile and made threats to \"kill\" in Bloomington and other cities. After police interviewed the girl, she explained she created the profile on her younger sister's phone to scare her boyfriend but \"the situation got out of control and went viral,\" police said.\n\nOn September 21, in Tchula, Police Chief reported seeing a clown wearing a multi-colored wig, overalls, and a mask carrying what appeared to be a machete. Upon seeing the police car, the clown fled. His or her whereabouts remain unknown.\n\nOne driver reported seeing a person dressed as a clown lurking around by Republic High School during the night in Republic, Missouri.\n\nPeople dressed as clowns have also been sighted in Platte City, Joplin and Neosho, Missouri. Clown related threats were also made in Blue Springs, Missouri. Clown sightings have also been reported in Clinton, Versailles and University of Missouri campus.\n\nOn October 12, a 15-year-old boy was cited for disorderly conduct for an alleged October 5 threat posted on Facebook. The threat was about a clown killing students at Missoula schools.\n\nIn early October, people dressed as clowns were spotted in Lincoln and Grand Island. On October 5, four teenage clowns were arrested for terroristic threats in Grand Island. One was in possession of a BB gun.\n\nIn Sparks, three men were chased by a suspicious man, dressed like a clown wielding a machete near the Shadow Mountain Sports Complex. But then turned out to be fake and set up by the same three men who supposedly saw the clown.\n\nIn Durham, New Hampshire, UNH College Students (University of New Hampshire) reported to the police that a person dressed as a creepy clown was roaming the campus. Police followed up the report claiming that the clown was found with no weapons except a megaphone. It is unknown why the clown had a megaphone.\n\nOn Monday, October 4, at around 10pm, a male in a clown mask carrying a plastic machete scared a woman at a Quick Chek convenience store in Parsippany. A second eyewitness also was scared by the same individual who then ran away through a hole in the fence at the rear of the building. Police officials were unable to locate the suspect initially, however they later identified the individual as a juvenile. Police officials stated that this was a misguided prank and was ultimately harmless.\n\nIn Phillipsburg, New Jersey, a boy claimed to have been chased by a clown with a sword. The boy says that he heard the clown say \"I'm gonna get cha\".\n\nPeople dressed as clowns were also spotted in Bound Brook, Hunterdon, Monroe, North Plainfield, Trenton, and Spotswood.\nA middle school student from Cinnaminson was detained for harassing students in a clown costume.\n\nIn the first week of October, police in Hobbs received multiple reports of clown sightings. No arrests have yet been made.\nIn the second week of October, there were reports of clowns armed with baseball bats walking around Roswell.\n\nOn October 9, three juveniles with clown masks were arrested outside a children's clothing store in Albuquerque. They were found in possession of a firearm.\n\nOn September 28 and 29, sightings were reported in Brentwood and North Babylon on Long Island. The North Babylon School District and Shenendehowa School District went on \"lockout\" the following day, and the Lindenhurst School District employed precautions. A \"lockout\" means that nobody is allowed to enter or leave during class hours. A Twitter account called \"Suffolk Clowns\" (@LIClowns) emerged, making (possibly joking) threats to numerous school districts and posting pictures of clowns. However, the account has since been suspended.\n\nOn October 5, a man in clown clothing intimidated a 16-year-old boy with a knife on a Manhattan subway and tried to block him from walking through the doorway as the subway was about to enter the 96th Street station. The boy ran out of the station, and the man fled. On October 13, a 53-year-old man was arrested and charged with menacing.\nOn October 8, a clown was sighted on the campus of SUNY Rockland.\nOn October 9, a clown was seen trying to lure people into the woods in Sloatsburg.\nOn October 10, a clown chased down a girl who was walking her dog at Harriman State Park \n\nAfter a sighting at St. Bonaventure University, school officials issued a statement on October 5 requesting that students not take matters into their own hands when confronting potentially dangerous situations. Reports say that students had created a sign-up sheet for an \"Anti-Clown Army\" and students were later seen roaming the campus armed with baseball bats.\n\nOn September 4, children in a Winston-Salem neighborhood reported to the police about a person dressed as a clown trying to lure them into some woods. They described him as wearing white overalls and gloves, red shoes, and bushy, red hair. His face was described as white with a red nose. They claim that he offered them treats if they would go with him. According to police, an adult heard, but did not see, the clown.\n\nOn September 7, a witness reported seeing a person wearing a scary clown mask, red curly wig, yellow dotted shirt, blue clown pants and clown shoes exited the woods by an apartment complex around 10 a.m. in Greensboro, although the clown disappeared after another witness attempted to chase down the clown with a machete.\n\nOn October 10, police in Rolla received reports of a person dressed as a clown armed with a machete.\n\nOn September 27, at about 2 am, a woman called Lancaster police and reported that she had seen a clown with a large kitchen knife in its hand. Witnesses at the location told police that they had seen two clowns, one wearing a gold suit with balloon and the other wearing all black. Police failed to find them.\n\nOn September 29, a woman was attacked while on her porch while she was smoking. She claimed that a man dressed as a clown grabbed her throat and said \"I should just kill you now...\" The victim also stated that he said that \"some students and teachers would wish they were never born at the junior and senior high school today.\" That prompted Reading school superintendent Chuck LaFata to cancel Friday classes in the area, prompting local private school Mount Notre Dame to close as well.\nAlso, a junior high student was arrested after making a clown-related threat using the Internet.\n\nOn Sunday, October 2, a total of seven people were arrested in Cincinnati over clown-related threats. These students were charged with inciting panic for allegedly suggesting a \"Clown Clan\" descend on their schools.\nOn October 4, a Speedway gas station in Dayton was robbed by three individuals, one wearing a surgical mask, one a Guy Fawkes mask and one a clown mask.\n\nIn response to the various incidents, the sheriff of Darke County, Toby Spencer, posted a challenge to those who might consider pulling a clown prank, that \"...as of today we have issued 6,125 (concealed carry) permits in Darke County alone. You might also ask yourself how your luck will be today.\"\n\nIt was thought that clowns would visit a school in Lowellville which prompted a police investigation.\n\nThere have been sightings in Oklahoma City, Moore, McAlester, Tulsa, and Chickasha, as well as Miami.\n\nDuring the evening of October 7, 2016, several residents of a Moore, Oklahoma neighborhood confronted two individuals clad in clown clothing, warning them of the serious consequences they could face if they persisted in their activities. The two individuals had apparently been loitering at a neighborhood playground, lurking around suspiciously and scaring children. During the confrontation one clown fled, but the other clown stayed for the duration of the lecture, eventually coming to see the truth in what the residents were saying – and removing his clown costume.\n\nOn October 16, 2016 just outside the city limits of Pryor, Oklahoma a female motorist was reportedly attacked by two clowns after being flagged down by a woman posing as a motorist in need of assistance. She said the clowns forcibly dragged the motorist from her vehicle, choked her, extinguished a cigarette on her face, and wrote the words \"clown posse\" on her forehead. She later confessed to having made up the story and said she was responsible for her injuries.\n\nA woman reported on September 30 that a clown tried to break into her car near the O'Bryant Square in Portland.\nA man was arrested in Central Point on October 5 after posting pictures of himself dressed as a clown and trespassing at various local high schools. He was booked into the Jackson County Jail and faces charges of disorderly conduct and second-degree trespassing.\n\nOn October 6, a 55-year-old man in a clown mask was arrested for menacing at Floyd Light Middle School in Portland. An assistant principal confronted the man, who then allegedly threatened to hurt him. The suspect is facing charges of menacing and disorderly conduct. There has been at least eight \"scary clown\" sightings, and police responding in some cases, in Douglas County since October 1, 2016.\n\nOn September 18, 2016, in State College, a person dressed as a clown was seen acting strangely at the parking lot of a YMCA early in the morning. In late September, reports stated that an individual dressed as an angry clown was seen with a knife around the wooded areas behind Kistler Elementary School. Rumors of a clown threatening the Cumberland Valley school district have also been reported. York College students have reported numerous sightings on and off the campus. Both the Erie Police Department and the Pennsylvania State Police confirmed that in the city of Erie, there has been multiple clown sightings during the month of September.\n\nOn September 25, 2016, 16-year-old Christian Torres was found stabbed to death on the front porch following a scuffle during a party in Reading when a man wearing a clown mask showed up at the party. The assailant, 29-year-old Avery Valentin-Bair was later arrested & charged with first degree murder.\n\nIn October, a clown was arrested after threatening kids on their way to school in Whitehall, Allegheny County. On October 3, 2016, the Pennsylvania State Police issued a \"Community Awareness Bulletin\" which specifically addressed the reports that have been appearing in news and social media around the country. The general tone of the bulletin was cautionary, yet at the same time it reinforced the notion that many of the threats specific to clowns attacking schools had \"not been validated\". The bulletin also recalls the 1980s clown sightings in various US cities, as well as providing a phone number, email address and information about a smartphone app that citizens can use to report suspicious behavior to authorities.\nThat same day the \"Bucks County Courier Times\" interviewed Joyce Meder, also known as \"Bubbles the Clown\" regarding the \"creepy clown\" phenomenon. Meder is an Abington, PA-based professional clown who provides entertainment for children. Describing herself as a \"happy\" and \"fun\" clown, Meder expressed disappointment over the recent clown scare, citing her newfound fears of possible run-ins with law enforcement when she is in public dressed as a clown. Meder goes on to say in the interview that she plans to turn to her colleagues in the professional clown community to \"find out how they are being affected and what they're doing about this epidemic\".\n\nAfter an alleged sighting at University Park, on October 3, Penn State students gathered together for a \"clown hunt\". Reports say that the number of students attended this hunt ranged from 500 to 1,000. Following the riot/hunt, the police stated that they did not believe that there were any actual clown sightings, but also stated that there was no property damage, no injury and no violence.\n\nAt least ten cases of sightings were reported in Puerto Rico, including a clown being reported lurking around a Guaynabo home.\n\nOn October 12, in Rio Piedras, a trio of clowns robbed a couple on a street. In the following week, a man reported in Rio Piedras that he was robbed at gunpoint by a clown and had his phone and cash stolen.\n\nOn October 4, 2016, the Providence Journal reported that social media threats were made against Tolman High School and Goff Junior High in Pawtucket that prompted rumors of clown sightings. There was also reports of a clown with a machete chasing people out of Slater Park on three separate occasion and that a clown was seen hanging around schools in the same city. A teenage boy was arrested soon after for making threats against schools on social media involving clown masks.\nIn Coventry, elementary school students had to spend their recess indoors after a social media post stated that a clown was going to appear at Hopkins Hill School.\n\nAn overweight clown was spotted in Roger Williams Park.\n\nAlthough sightings were initially reported in South Carolina in mid-August, the phenomenon began to spread north from late August through the end of September.\n\nOn August 21, 2016, there was an alleged clown sighting in Greenville at the Fleetwood Manor Apartment complex. Children in the complex reportedly witnessed clowns or a group of clowns attempting to whisper or talk to the children. The children told their parents that the clowns, equipped with \"flashing green laser lights\", said they lived in an abandoned house in the woods near a small lake. Greenville police came to the complex to investigate, and did find a trail in the woods leading to a house and a small lake, but no evidence of clowns or clown paraphernalia was found.\nWhile some of these reports have been harmless, others reports have been more suspicious. In one instance, a woman reported a person in a clown costume was standing in her backyard and ran away as she took a picture. In one case, an individual had heard clanging chains and a banging noise at his front door. While other cases report a clown offering money or candy to children to follow the clown into the woods.\n\nOn October 4, a 19-year-old man in a clown costume was arrested on the campus of South Dakota State University in Brookings for disorderly conduct. He was allegedly scaring students.\n\nOn September 19, in Summitville, a 15-year-old boy was cut with a knife by a man in a clown mask.\n\nOn September 28, at Carson-Newman University in Jefferson City, there were reportedly clown sightings on campus.\n\nOn September 30, 2016 clown-themed threats were made against the high school in Temple.\n\nOn October 3, 2016, a person dressed as a clown attacked a person at a housing complex at Texas State University. The victim said the alleged clown tried to grab her before she could pull away. The suspect then left in an unknown direction, according to University police.\n\nOn October 5, 2016, the Tuloso-Midway Independent School District, which has about 4,000 students in its five schools, ordered a lockdown about 9 a.m. Wednesday after a bus driver and a monitor on the bus said they saw a clown sitting inside a vehicle near one of the schools, superintendent Sue Nelson said.\n\nOn the morning of October 6, residents reported that a clown was knocking on doors of homes in a Manor neighborhood. An 18-year-old man was arrested, and police found a clown mask that belonged to the suspect.\n\nHouston Independent School District schools were placed on lockdown following clown-related threats posted on social media.\nOn October 11, a Gainesville home was broken into by three clown-masked teenagers, and the homeowner was shot in the face and arm with a BB gun. A 13-year-old male and two 14-year-old males were arrested.\n\nOn October 3, 2016, in St. George, Utah, a woman reported to police that while she was walking, someone dressed as a clown had exited a vehicle and chased her, though in follow-up interviews she clarified that the individual had merely stared at her without saying or doing anything to her.\n\nAlso on October 3, 2016, near midnight in Provo, Utah, a woman reported to police that someone dressed as a clown ran across her suburban yard.\n\nOn October 5, in Williston, a 15-year-old boy was arrested after being accused of wearing a clown mask and banging the classroom windows of Jean Garvin Youth and Family Services School. He faced charges of disorderly conduct and inducing panic.\n\nOn September 25, 2016, the Augusta County Sheriff's Office was notified about sightings in the 100 block of River Bend Road in Fort Defiance. The call came from a resident who was fishing in the area with his two boys. According to the resident, he was approached by people fleeing the area after spotting several clowns in the nearby woods. As of October 27, 2016, no arrests have been made in this case.\n\nOn October 6, 2016, a clown was reported on the campus of James Madison University. Students armed with pepper spray and baseball bats formed posses to hunt the clown down, although the sighting was later revealed to be a hoax.\n\nVirginia law prohibits anyone over 16 from wearing a mask to conceal one's identity.\n\nOn October 3, several students at Rogers High School in Puyallup received text messages of a person dressed as a clown threatening to kill students at the school. A person reported that a person dressed as a clown was seen wielding a knife near the school campus on the following morning. On October 4, the school was put on lock down and police found two clown masks in the woods adjacent to the school. Two other Pierce County schools Emerald Ridge High School and Glacier View Junior High were closed down on October 4 due to threats. The case is being investigated by both the Pierce County Sheriff's Office and the FBI.\n\nIn early October, a 14-year-old girl was arrested for phoning a clown-related threat to McKinley Middle School.\n\nIn early October, in Fairmont, a 34-year-old man was arrested on a charge of assault after an incident was reported in which a man was wearing a clown mask, carrying a baseball bat, and chased four children, ages 6 to 11.\n\nOn August 1, 2016, near the beginning of this spate of sightings, Wisconsin residents reported seeing Gags the Green Bay Clown. There has been speculation that this clown is related to an independent horror film due to premiere around Halloween.\n\nOn October 7, 2016, a Menasha couple dressed up as clowns were arrested for child negligence for leaving their 4-year-old child alone at home while they were outside scaring people.\n\nIn early October, creepy clowns were reported by citizens to be walking around mazes and taking selfies in Natrona County.\n\nIn one example, threats of violence and the same image of a clown referred to a minimum of 24 schools in Arizona Valley's Phoenix Union and Glendale school districts.\n\nOn Monday, September 26, around 1,500 of Marydale High School's students (nearly half of all students) did not attend after the first threats appeared on the Internet.\n\nOn October 1, schools in Hamburg, Pennsylvania were locked down because of a clown threat on Facebook and Twitter by a group with the name \"Aint Clownin Around.\" The message read \"We will be at all High schools this friday to either students or kill teachers going to they cars ...#WeNotClowninAround.\"\n\nIn Philadelphia, threats against students and schools have been posted at social media sites, prompting the FBI and a terrorism task force to help police investigate. The exact nature of these threats has not been made public.\n\nSuch threats on social media have also affected two grade schools in Alabama, Auburn University, Fairborn High School, Columbus, Ohio, some Las Vegas area schools, and many more around the country.\n\nExplanations include that some clown sightings were promotional stunts for Rob Zombie's \"31\" or Andrés Muschietti's 2017 film adaptation of Stephen King's novel \"It\", both of which feature one or more characters dressed as clowns.\n\nAuthor and folklorist Benjamin Radford, who wrote the non-fiction book \"Bad Clowns\", said that the craze could be an example of the \"snowball effect\", where rumor and legitimate concerns mix with the human penchant for a good story.\n\n\"The Verge\" dismissed the sightings as a case of mass hysteria, stating that a fear of clowns (which is common in children and adults) may be an underlying cause. \"Vox\" likewise claimed that \"The Great Clown Panic of 2016 has been perpetuated by pretty much everyone except actual clowns.\"\n\nThe of anthology horror series \"American Horror Story\" seems to have capitalised on this craze, where the main protagonists are members of a cult which terrorise and murder their victims whilst disguised as clowns.\n\n"}
{"id": "85298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85298", "title": "652 BC", "text": "652 BC\n\nThe year 652 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 102 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 652 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44016741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44016741", "title": "Anne de Bretagne (rock opera)", "text": "Anne de Bretagne (rock opera)\n\nAnne de Bretagne is a rock opera by Alan Simon, based on the life of Anne of Brittany. The story follows the historical events that made her the last Duchess of independent Brittany and twice-crowned queen of France.\n\nIn 2007, Alan Simon visited an exhibition about Anne of Brittany at the Château des ducs de Bretagne. He got the idea to write an opera about Anne after seeing the reliquary of her heart; he then spent months researching her life. He wanted to write an opera connected to Brittany, and decided on Anne because \"in spite of the hundreds of streets, hotels and schools that carried her name, no one knew her story\". He wrote the opera based on Renaissance music, classical music and folk rock.\n\nThe recording for the studio album took place between August 2007 and February 2009, with more than 200 musicians participating. The first two performances took place on 29 and 30 June 2009, at Nantes, in the courtyard of the castle of the Dukes of Brittany. On this occasion, the show was played in front of nearly 6000 people. The live show was recorded and later released on CD and DVD. Costumes for the show were designed by Jeanine Lérin-Cagnet and Elise Bossard.\n\nOn 5–11 November 2010, a folk rock version of \"Anne de Bretagne\" was performed in Ploemeur, Nantes, Quimper and Rennes. This version had some changes compared to the original show—it was more acoustic and did not have the bagad or symphony orchestra. There was also a new narrator, as Jean-Claude Dreyfus could not participate in the tour. For this tour, the narrator was Jean-Louis Jossic, who also played the role of Louis XII.\n\nIn April 2012, the folk rock version was performed in Bouvron, Romorantin-Lanthenay, Rennes and Plougastel-Daoulas. There were some changes to the original cast, and the title role was played by Bleunwenn Mevel of Tri Yann. On 22 September 2012, a Renaissance version was performed in Redon.\n\nOn 19 September 2014, the show was performed in Vannes as part of Celti'Vannes, a Breton cultural festival. The festival coincided with the 500th anniversary of Anne of Brittany's death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000393", "title": "Anti-prom", "text": "Anti-prom\n\nAnti-prom, also known as morp (\"prom\" spelled in reverse), is a social event often staged by high school students as a protest against, or boycott of, their school's official prom, as an alternative celebration. Other times, it may be an unofficial prom, planned by the students themselves so that it is not under the control of the school. \n\nSome of the more common reasons for the creation of an anti-prom include the desire to curb the large cost of a traditional prom, to listen to music other than that expected to be played at the official prom, to have a smaller, more personal get-together, ones that cannot find a date or have been rejected for a prom date, don't like the food, or have looser and less strict rules than the school's (often relating to dress rules or alcohol consumption). Another common anti-prom is an unofficial dance set up by freshmen and sophomores as they cannot go to prom without a junior or senior. \n\nThe attendees of an anti-prom usually disagree with the values of the high school in-crowd who, stereotypically, organize the prom from the preparatory stages to the after-parties. In particular, anti-prom attendees protest what they regard as the vanity, excess, and conformity that the prom culture expects from students. Anti-proms do not follow any prescribed format, catering instead to the varied tastes of the large spectrum of students who feel dissociated from prom culture. Nevertheless, anti-prom participants are generally concerned with arranging social activities that are not only fun and enjoyable, but which also serve as an assertion of solidarity and of the legitimacy of social difference. \n\nSexual orientation and gender identity sometimes plays a role in leading students to form and attend an anti-prom (sometimes referred to as a gay prom or queer prom): lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQQ) students who feel that attending their school's traditional prom with a same-sex partner or not identifying in traditional gender identity fashion would be problematic might choose to hold their own gathering. Gay proms began to form in the 1990s, with one of the longest running and oldest being the Hayward Gay Prom, which was first held in 1995.\n"}
{"id": "34061944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34061944", "title": "Arrest of Ali Hasan", "text": "Arrest of Ali Hasan\n\nAli Hasan Alqudaihi () is an 11-year-old Bahraini boy who was arrested for allegedly participating in an \"illegal\" protest during his country's national uprising. Alqudaishi was arrested on 14 May 2012 and released without bail during a trial about one month later. On 5 July the court handed verdict allowing him to stay home while a social worker monitored him for a year. However, charges were not dropped.\n\nAlqudaishi is one of the youngest detainees in Bahrain since the uprising began in February 2011.\n\nAli Hasan is a student in the sixth grade. He has three sisters and a brother. While his family, lawyers, news agencies, the \"BBC\" and \"Al Jazeera\", newspapers, \"The Independent\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\", rights groups Bahrain Centre for Human Rights (BCHR) and Amnesty International gave his age as eleven; however, a government statement said he was twelve.\n\nBeginning in February 2011, Bahrain saw sustained pro-democracy protests, centered at Pearl Roundabout in the capital of Manama, as part of the wider Arab Spring. Authorities responded with a night raid on 17 February (later referred to by protesters as Bloody Thursday), which left four protesters dead and more than 300 injured. Protests continued for a month reaching over 100,000 participants in a nation of about 500,000 citizens, until more than a thousand troops and police from the Gulf Cooperation Council arrived at the request of government and a three-month state of emergency was declared. Authorities then launched a \"brutal\" crackdown on protesters, including doctors and bloggers. They carried out midnight house raids in Shia neighbourhoods, beatings at checkpoints, and denial of medical care in a \"campaign of intimidation\". However, smaller-scale protests and clashes have continued to occur almost daily, mostly in areas outside Manama's business districts, with some rare marches in the center of the capital city. More than 80 people had died since the start of the uprising.\n\nIn 2011, BCHR said it had documented 188 cases of child arrests which they described as \"unlawful and many cases fall under kidnapping or abduction\". According to the rights group almost all of them reported mistreatment while in detention and some were transported to hospitals after being detained and had torture marks. The government, however denies such reports. In a statement it said the average number of children held in juvenile detention in the first half of 2012 is about fifteen and that most of them are released within weeks. Opposition activists deny government accusations that they are \"exploiting children by encouraging them to protest and clash with police\".\n\nBCHR said Alqudaishi was arrested on 13 May by plainclothes policemen near his house in Bilad Al Qadeem, a neighbourhood of Manama. However, Noura Al-Khalifa the chief prosecutor for juveniles said the arrest happened on 14 May when Alqudaishi was \"blocking a street outside Manama with garbage containers and wood planks\".\n\n\"It was Saturday, and we were playing. They came and blocked the street, and then left, so we went back out and played a game, and then some civilians came and took pictures of us\", Alqudaishi said. He added, on the next day he was \"playing in the street\" with two of his friends at his age when policemen arrested him. According to him, his friends were able to make it away, but he stopped when a policeman threatened to shoot him with a shotgun. A spokesman of Information Affairs Authority said it was \"incorrect\" to think he was just playing adding that Alqudaishi was \"not only in custody for participating in an illegal gathering, but for his involvement in burning tires and road blocks\".\n\nAlqudaishi was first held in Nabih Saleh police station then moved to Isa Town juveniles detention center. Amnesty International said the boy was moved \"between several police stations for a period of about four hours and interrogated... that during that time he was alone, he became hungry and tired and eventually confessed to accusations against him\". However, the government said he only spent six hours in police custody and spent the rest of the month in a juveniles detention center.\n\nMohsin Al-Alawi, Alqudaishi's lawyer, said he visited the boy who then denied participating in an \"illegal gathering\". Shahzalan Khamees, another lawyer defending the boy reported that he was abused during arrest. She also said \"[h]e is very sad all the time\" and that \"All he says is 'I want to go home. I want my mother'. He is frightened and says they are going to punish him. He is only a child\". However, a statement by the government said that Alqudaishi \"is receiving social care and tutoring at the [detention] centre\". While in custody, Alqudaishi was allowed to attend his final school exams.\n\nAfter his release, Alqudaishi said he was not mistreated in detention and that \"treatment was good\". He said he spent most of his time doing sport or cleaning the place.\n\nAlqudaishi's first trial was in a juvenile criminal court on 4 June 2012 and the second on 11 June. He was charged with \"joining an illegal gathering\" with nearly a dozen of people as well as other protest-related charges. On 11 June, three lawyers defended Alqudaishi in the trial which lasted for ten minutes and resulted in releasing him without bail.\n\nAccording to chief prosecutor, Alqudaishi pleaded guilty of the charges saying it was on his third attempt to block the street when he was arrested. She further claimed that Alqudaishi said he along with his friends were given three Bahraini Dinars (about $8) by \"a man accused of stirring trouble\".\n\nKhamees suggested that the accusations made against her client were not true because it is impossible for Alqudaishi to block a road with a garbage container because it is \"so heavy that you would need two grown men to lift it\". She confirmed Alqudaishi pleaded guilty, but according to her, he then added \"a man told me in the investigation that I would be released immediately if I said I dropped trash in the street.\" Amnesty International stated that the boy \"confessed because police promised to release him if he did\".\n\nThe trial was postponed to 20 June. On 5 July the court handed verdict allowing him to stay home while a social worker monitor him for a year. However, charges were not dropped and his legal status are unclear.\n\nA number of rights groups called for Alqudaishi's immediate release. Among them is the Ireland-based Bahrain Rehabilitation and Anti-Violence Organization which issued a statement regarding the \"growing number of children detained for investigation in security cases\". BCHR expressed its concern for targeting children under fifteen. Human Rights Watch expressed concern that Alqudaishi \"was not accompanied by a lawyer during his questioning\", adding, \"It seems the only evidence used against him is his own confession and the testimony of a police officer\". Amnesty International stated, \"Arresting an 11-year-old boy, interrogating him for hours without a lawyer before trying him on spurious charges shows a jaw-dropping lack of respect for his rights\". The organization criticized the proceedings as \"completely out of step with international standards, or even Bahrain's own penal code\". The spokeswoman further added that \"[t]his case shows the excessive means the Bahraini authorities have resorted to in order to crush protest. I hope they will see sense and drop all the charges against Ali Hassan\".\n\nKhamees said \"[a]uthorities should be more than satisfied with the time Hasan has spent in jail and the damage they have caused to the boy by imprisoning him\" and that the government should \"treat children better\". She also named the boy a political prisoner.\n\nKhadija Habib, Alqudaishi's mother, said he was innocent and the accusations against him \"fabricated\".\n\nThe Bahraini newspaper \"Al Wasat\" wrote that Alqudaishi's case drew \"great sympathy\" on Facebook and Twitter, and that a number of \"former MPs, political society members, human rights activist and citizens\" demanded his immediate release. The BBC Arabic reported that his case \"received considerable attention by the international media\", citing an article in \"The Independent\" as an example.\n"}
{"id": "745855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=745855", "title": "Battle of Pteria", "text": "Battle of Pteria\n\nAt the Battle of Pteria () in 547 BC, the Persian forces of Cyrus the Great fought a drawn battle with the invading Lydian forces of Croesus, forcing Croesus to withdraw back west into his own kingdom.\n\nFormerly, the Lydians and Medes had arranged that the natural boundary between the two empires would be the Halys River. Croesus learned of the sudden Persian uprising and defeat of his longtime rivals, the Medes. He attempted to opportunistically use these set of events to expand his borders upon the eastern frontier of Lydia. He made an alliance with Chaldea, Egypt and several Greek city-states, including Sparta.\n\nCroesus may have intended re-instating his brother-in-law, Astages on the Median throne. It is also possible that he was trying to pre-empt a Persian invasion of Lydia.\n\nCroesus began the campaign with an invasion of Cappadocia, crossing the Halys and capturing Pteria, then capital of the district and formidable as a fortress; The city was sacked, and the inhabitants enslaved. Meanwhile, Cyrus had advanced to halt the Lydian incursion, and the armies met in the vicinity of the fallen city. The battle appears to have been fierce, but indecisive; Both sides sustained considerable casualties; in the aftermath, the outnumbered Croesus withdrew across the Halys. The retreat of Croesus is represented by Herodotus as a strategic decision to suspend operations until their armies were more evenly matched, by arrival of reinforcements from his allies the Babylonians, the Egyptians and particularly the Spartans. Though losses were more or less equal, Croesus apparently thought he had inflicted sufficiently heavy losses on the Persians to cripple Cyrus for the winter, as he disbanded his army shortly after reaching his own territory.\n\nAmong historians, the outcome of the battle remains debatable and unclear. Before all of this, and prior to his invasion, Croesus asked the Oracle of Delphi for advice. The Oracle suggested vaguely that, \"if King Croesus crosses the Halys River, a great empire will be destroyed.\" Croesus received these words with delight, instigating a war that would ironically and eventually end not the Persian Empire but his own. The dispersal of Croesus' army exposed Lydia to the unexpected invasion of Cyrus, who followed almost immediately on Croesus' steps, pursuing him to Sardis. The rival kings fought again at the Battle of Thymbra, before Sardis, which ended in a decisive victory for Cyrus the Great.\n\n"}
{"id": "17224339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17224339", "title": "Bingo (play)", "text": "Bingo (play)\n\nBingo: Scenes of Money and Death is a 1973 play by English Marxist playwright Edward Bond. It depicts an ageing William Shakespeare at his Warwickshire home in 1615 and 1616, suffering pangs of conscience in part because he signed a contract which protected his landholdings, on the condition that he would not interfere with an enclosure of common lands that would hurt the local peasant farmers. Although the play is fictional, this contract has a factual basis. \"Bingo\" is a political drama heavily influenced by Bertolt Brecht and Epic theatre.\n\nIn an interview with the \"Sunday Times\", Bond said, \"Art has very practical consequences. Most 'cultural appreciation' ignores this and is no more relevant than a game of 'bingo' and less honest.\"\n\nBond cites \"William Shakespeare\" by E.K. Chambers as his source for information about the Welcombe enclosure, on which \"Bingo\" is based. In the introduction to \"Bingo\" Bond describes this incident: \"A large part of his income came from rents (or tithes) paid on common fields at Welcombe near Stratford. Some important landowners wanted to enclose these fields... and there was a risk that the enclosure would affect Shakespeare's rents. He could either side with the landowners or with the poor who would lose their land and livelihood. He sided with the landowners. They gave him a guarantee against loss – and this is not a neutral document because it implies that should the people fighting the enclosers come to him for help he would refuse it. Well, the town did write to him for help and he did nothing.\"\n\n\nShakespeare is seated in his garden when the Young Woman arrives to beg. The Old Man takes her into the back garden for sex. The Old Woman tries to sound out Shakespeare's intentions with regards to Combe's land scheme and warns him that it will ruin local families. Combe arrives to convince Shakespeare to sign a contract stating that he will not interfere with the scheme, in exchange for the security of his own lands. Shakespeare hands Combe a paper stating his terms. The Old Man enters, followed by the Son, berating the Old Man for his sexual misconduct with the Young Woman. Combe interrogates her, but disbelieves her story, taking a haughty moralistic attitude. Combe and the Son take the Young Woman to be whipped for vagrancy and prostitution.\n\nSix months later. The Old Woman tells Judith about her husband's condition and his history with the press gang, but Judith takes a moralistic tone, condemning the Old Man for his infidelity and irresponsibility. Later, Shakespeare and the Old Man are in the garden when the Young Woman returns. She is physically decimated, having been living in burned out barns all winter, supported by the Old Man. Shakespeare tells Judith to give the woman food and clothing, but Judith resents her and refuses. The woman hides in the orchard when Combe arrives to give Shakespeare the contract, which he signs. Judith enters and tells Combe that the woman has returned; he sends his men to apprehend her. Judith berates her father for his toleration of their misconduct and his lack of sympathy with the local people: \"You don't notice these things. You must learn that people have feelings. They suffer.\" Judith soon feels guilty at being the cause of the woman's punishment, and regrets turning her in. The Old Man breaks down crying because he knows that the woman will be executed for arson, having burned down several barns. He describes the public spectacle of an execution as a festivity he used to enjoy, but can no longer endure.\n\nThe Young Woman has been executed, and hangs on a gibbet on stage. While Shakespeare sits alone, the Son and several local labourers eat lunch. The Son talks about the woman's sin, also making pointed comments about Shakespeare. The Son and his friend Wally look into the dead woman's face and engage in vehement prayer, jumping and shouting. When they leave, Shakespeare tells Judith about the violent scene of a bear-baiting that took place next to the theatre, saying \"When I go to my theatre I walk under sixteen severed heads on a gate. You hear bears in the pit while my characters talk.\" Shakespeare relates his despair: \"What does it cost to stay alive? I'm stupified by the suffering I've seen.\"\n\nShakespeare and Ben Jonson are drinking in a tavern. Jonson has come to tell Shakespeare that the Globe Theatre has burned down, and to ask Shakespeare what he is writing. Their conversation and their attitude towards literature are unglamorous: \"I hate writing. Fat white fingers excreting dirty black ink. Smudges. Shadows. Shit. Silence\" Jonson says. Jonson recounts a life of violence, compared with Shakespeare's \"serene\" existence. As the two get increasingly inebriated, the Son and the workers enter, having just had an encounter with Combe's men while destroying Combe's ditches and fences. They see themselves as religious soldiers against the \"rich thieves plunderin' the earth.\" Combe confronts them, claiming that he represents progress and realism.\n\nShakespeare is walking home from the tavern through the fresh snow, coming across the Old Man, who is throwing snowballs. Judith enters and scolds Shakespeare; Shakespeare tells her that after temporarily abandoning her mother, he tried to love Judith with money, but ended up making her materialistic and vulgar. She leaves him, and as he sits alone in the snow, several dark figures run by backstage, and a gunshot is heard. The Old Woman comes to bring Shakespeare home.\n\nShakespeare is in bed, half delirious, repeating the phrase \"Was anything done?\" Judith and her mother knock on the door calling for Shakespeare to let them in, gradually becoming hysterical when he does not respond, until finally he slips his will to them under the door and they leave. The Son enters, and tells Shakespeare that in a scuffle with Combe's men he shot his father, the Old Man. Combe enters, and the Son hypocritically accuses him of shooting the Old Man. While Combe and the Son argue, Shakespeare takes poison pills he had taken from Jonson. Combe and the Son leave, unaware that Shakespeare is dying. Judith enters, and paying no care to her dying father, she ransacks the room looking for money or a second will.\n\nBingo was first presented at the Northcott Theatre, Devon on 14 November 1973. It was directed by Jane Howell and John Dove, with the following cast:\nIt was revived at the Young Vic Theatre, opening 16 Feb 2012, directed by Angus Jackson, with a cast led by Patrick Stewart (Shakespeare), John McEnery (Old Man), Catherine Cusack (Judith) and Richard McCabe (Ben Jonson).\n\nLike George Bernard Shaw, Bond generally wrote lengthy prose introductions for his plays. Bond begins the introduction to \"Bingo\" by mentioning the minor historical inaccuracies he introduced into the play for dramatic purposes; for example, the Globe Theatre burned down in 1613 rather than in 1616, and Michael Drayton was also present at Shakespeare's \"last binge.\" The rest of the introduction explains Bond's view of the relationship between \"human values,\" society, and art. Although he finds much suffering and violence in his own and in Shakespeare's time, Bond is not ultimately pessimistic; he attributes this violence not to human nature but to the arrangement of society, which can be reformed. Reflecting his Marxist views, Bond argues that the demands of capitalism force people to act in aggressive, self-interested ways that conflict with their innate human values: \"We're wrong when we assume we're free to use money in human ways,\" Bond writes. He then argues that the proper role of art is to work against this corrupted version of society: \"(Art) always insists on the truth, and tries to express the justice and order that are necessary to sanity but are usually destroyed by society.\" Shakespeare's dilemma in \"Bingo\" is that he is caught between his financially motivated behaviour and his artistic sensibility of the destructiveness of that behaviour: \"Shakespeare's plays show this need for sanity and its political expression, justice. But how did he live? His behavior as a property-owner made him closer to Goneril than Lear. He supported and benefitted from the Goneril-society – with its prisons, workhouses, whipping, starvation, mutiliation, pulpit-hysteria and all the rest of it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24271688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24271688", "title": "Béthanie (Hong Kong)", "text": "Béthanie (Hong Kong)\n\nBéthanie () is a historic building complex located in Pok Fu Lam, in Hong Kong built in 1875 as a sanatorium by the Paris Foreign Missions Society (). It is a Grade II historic building.\n\nBéthanie and the nearby Dairy Farm cowsheds were allocated in 2003 to the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts. After a series of renovations, the complex reopened in 2006 and is now used by the Academy's School of Film and Television. In addition to educational facilities, it includes two performance venues, an exhibition hall, a chapel and a museum.\n\nBéthanie is located at No. 139, Pok Fu Lam Road, on Hong Kong Island. Situated between the pine trees, with the seaview of the coast, Béthanie's geographical site provided an ideal restorative place for the French priests to recover from tropical diseases at that time.\n\nToday, the Chinese Cuisine Training Institute (CCTI) is located adjacent to Béthanie. Drivers can reach Béthanie by following signs leading to the CCTI.\n\nBéthanie was the first sanatorium to be built in Hong Kong. Originally bought from a certain J.J. dos Remedios in June 1873, in 1875, the Missions Étrangères de Paris, led by Pierre-Marie Osouf, finished building Béthanie to serve as a place for priests and missionaries from all over Asia to recover from tropical diseases before returning to their missions. At the same time, the missionaries and priests organized a small-scale printing press in Béthanie to work. The printing press turned out to be a successful operation, publishing religious items of 28 languages. Osouf's assistant, Fr. Charles Edmond Patriat, supervised the construction of the building and became the first Superior of Béthanie upon its opening in 1875. In 1887, Patriat requested a leave of absence and was succeeded by Fr. Holhaan.\n\nDuring its early years, Béthanie suffered many deaths of missionaries due to the immature medicinal technology as well as the spread of incurable tuberculosis. Between 1875 and 1886, 11 fathers had died under the age of 50. However, in its functions throughout a near century, the sanatorium had successfully nursed back to health hundreds of sick missionaries. In 1886, upon the appointment of Fr. Holhaan as Superior, Béthanie had seen an increase from 15 to 20 annual visitors in its initial years, to more than 40 in 1887–1890, and well over 50 in the following years. Due to the increase in volume of visitors, an average of 20 visitors at once were occupying the 14 available rooms in Béthanie. In the years of the 1890s, Fr. Holhaan found supplies to be stretched and rooms to be overcrowded, therefore leading to his first plan of enlargement for Béthanie in 1890s.\n\nDuring this time as well, an internal debate regarding the future of Béthanie was impeding the construction plans. The problem arose of whether or not nuns from the French Convent of St. Paul de Chartres in Hong Kong could be invited to help with patient care in the sanatorium. Of the next five years, the topic was discussed persistently but was eventually decided against. Fr. Holhaan felt that priorities of Béthanie's future lay within the expansion of the building and in 1896 construction began and was completed within the following year. The overall construction and expansion of the building cost the \"Missions Étrangères de Paris\" $15,820, roughly equivalent to the annual running costs of the establishment. The sanatorium continued to run smoothly for the next fifty years.\n\nIt was not until the second day of Japanese occupation in December 1941 that troops forced their way into the building searching each corner, taking material goods as well as ransacking the building. The missionaries were put under two days' house arrest without food or water and were then forced to leave their own premises. In desperation for fuel, the Japanese devastated the 50-year-old coniferous trees that covered the grounds of the sanatorium, leaving it bare. At the end of the war, Japanese surrender led to a prompt return of the \"Missions Étrangères de Paris\" back to Béthanie. In the years of recovery, patients were sent to the French Hospital run by the Sisters of St Paul de Chartres as the new superior of Béthanie since 1946, Fr Vignal, supervised the refurbishment of the house which was re opened in February 1949.\n\nAfter the Communist Revolution of 1949, growing pressures mounted on the expulsion of missionaries and Béthanie felt the mounting pressure of political unrest. In the 2 years that followed, Béthanie was again working well beyond capacity, serving 70 missionaries, totaling 4,950 days of stay.\n\nIn 1974, the Fathers sold Béthanie to Hongkong Land for redevelopment. In time, Hongkong Land determined the site too difficult to develop. In an exchange of land agreement, the Hong Kong government took Béthanie subject to a demolition order. For the next five years the threat of destruction loomed over the sanatorium. In 1978, a group of students studying at the University of Hong Kong occupied the buildings while waiting for an additional accommodation on campus to be constructed. A new appreciation for the heritage site arose and the community began to feel the responsibility of preserving it. In 1981, Béthanie was saved and declared a Grade II listed building. During its hundred years of operation, the death rate was incredibly low: the number of deaths coincidentally equaled with the number of years of operation - 100 in all, or in an average of one a year.\n\nThroughout the time period of 1978 - 1997, Béthanie continued to be used by the University of Hong Kong as a storage warehouse, where it slowly deteriorated due to neglect. In 2000, the Architectural Services Department commissioned a study to investigate the restoration of the Béthanie buildings. It was not until March 2003, when the Legislative Council of Hong Kong (LEGCO) approved funds for the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts to restore Béthanie.\n\nIn 2003, after considering the restoration options and future developments of Béthanie, the Legislative Council decided to support the restoration of the place and its two nearby Dairy Farm cowsheds, by providing funds to the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts (APA). It took roughly three years to complete the project (including renovation and search for missing artefacts) and cost an estimated HK $80 million. The alteration of the cowsheds led to a development of different facilities.\n\nGeorge C. Tso Memorial Chapel\nDesigned with a neo-Gothic structure, the George C. Tso Memorial Chapel has been used since 17 December 2006 for regular religious service by the Emmanuel Church-Pokfulam, a daughter church of St. John's Cathedral (Anglican), which carries on the historical Christian use of the site. Every Sunday, a congregation of worship is held. Also, the chapel is open for public use and admiration, including weddings and guided tours.\nThe heritage building has retained its original charm and appeal from the restoration project. Many of its distinctive features, such as the stained glass windows, paneled doors and altar, have all been preserved or restored.\n\nWellcome Theatre\nTo mark the 120th anniversary of its founding in 1886, Dairy Farm sponsored the transformation of the two historic octagonal cowsheds into a modern theatre. The first octagon is a foyer and exhibition area; the second is an intimate 150 seat performance space equipped with advanced acoustics for music and audio/visual support for seminars, film screenings and corporate events. The adjacent foyer is suitable for exhibitions, cocktail receptions and corporate functions. The original octagonal roof and milking stalls have been retained for visitors’ appreciation.\n\nSchool of Film and Television\nThe School of Film and Television is a branch school of the HKAPA which became functional in September 2006. Most of the facilities and classrooms are now in use but certain facilities such as the TV studio are kept in the academy's Wan Chai campus. The School of Film and Television has its own individual environment, with its own building, garden and roof garden. These settings can provide students with rest areas and place for gatherings.\n\nMuseum of Béthanie\nThe basement of Béthanie, once used as a wine cellar and dry goods storage, has now been converted into a museum displaying historical items of Bethanie and the French missionary’s activities in Asia throughout the past 300 years.\n\nJackie Chan Screening Room\nThe Jackie Chan suite is located on the second floor. It was funded through a donation by the Jackie Chan Charitable Fund. The suite is built with modern facilities for the School of Film and Television such including a 70-seat screening room, an audio/visual room and a product design room.\n\nSir Yuk Pao Studio\nToday, Sir Yuk Pao Studio, sponsored by Dr Helmut Sohmen and Professor Anna Pao Sohmen, serves as a spectacular multi-function room on the second floor of Béthanie. The room was originally a pitched roof with tiles. Due to the limited space, it was later reconstructed with a flat roof. It was not until the restoration project when the distinctive pitch roof was brought back into the design, using double-glazed panels of glass. The studio has a floor area of is equipped with wall mirrors, dance bars, glazed windows and other technical facilities and non-permanent seating.\n\nBéthanie is one of the outstanding European-style historical buildings in Hong Kong. It represents the city's few magnetic examples of French colonial architectures.\n\nThroughout the mid-19th century, the significant penetration of Western culture into Hong Kong led to the emergence of a new culture blend of 'east meets west' which was an influential factor in Hong Kong's architecture. French architecture was seen as a vehicle for cultural interchange and its influence on the formation of this distinctive Hong Kong identity was profound. Some even believe that 'the story of French architecture in Hong Kong was the story of Hong Kong itself'.\n\nThe influence of French architectural style spread as Hong Kong developed during three key phases – Arrival (the second half of the 19th century), Expansion (the early 20th century to the Japanese occupation) and Renewal (post-war to present)\n\nBased on neo-gothic design, Béthanie is a stylish composition of symmetrical cylinders. Apart from that, ogive, tracery, stained glass as well as Gothic arched windows can be found in the building. With a high ceiling and pitched roof, the George C. Tso Memorial Chapel is a typical illustration of neo-gothic architectures in Béthanie, though in a much simpler style and smaller scale. Among its nineteen stained glass windows, nine were originals. The remaining ones, either in disrepair or missing, were reproduced hand-made in the Philippines. Also, only four out of the twelve statues of the apostles, originally standing on corbels above the altar, have been found. Although the genuine ones were unavailable for exhibition, the Academy has replicated the statues with a silicone molding technique. Moreover, many neo-gothic structures within the perimeter have been conserved. One of these examples are the flying buttresses that were used to support the exteriors of buildings in the past. Although no longer functional, they have been restored to maintain authenticity. The Rib vaults, built in to support the ceiling and roof have also been retained in the chapel for decorative purposes.\n\nThe efforts in restoration led Béthanie to receive a UNESCO Asia-Pacific Heritage Award in 2008, for the modernized appearance in the aftermath of the restoration project. The honour is attributed to architect Philip Liao and Hong Kong Academy of Performing Arts associate director of operations, Philip Soden. A citywide search to recover the original furnishings was carried out to restore the site to its historical appearance. According to Soden, the hardest part of the restoration was to equip the building with air conditioning, fire services and lighting without affecting the overall appearance of the building.\n\nBéthanie witnessed the changes of Hong Kong-Franco relation hence contributing to history. Examples are shown below:\n\nIn 1964, on the premises of the Béthanie sanatorium in Pok Fu Lam, the first \"small French-speaking school\" was founded. At first, it could only accommodate 35 students. Over the years, the school has moved its location several times: from the \"Alliance française\" in Wan Chai to the Catholic centre, and then, in 1975, to the former military hospital on Borrett Road. In 1984 the \"Lycée Victor Ségalen\" was founded, with a new constitution and in new buildings at Jardine's Lookout. Once again, the school quickly reached its maximum capacity, and it became necessary to find additional premises in Kowloon to admit new students. In 1999, a new campus was opened on Blue Pool Road. Today, the \"Lycée Ségalen\" is the largest French International School in Asia, with more than 1700 students and 200 employees.\n\nBuildings erected in Hong Kong by the French community since 1848 represent a major non-British contribution to the history of Hong Kong. Among those still surviving today are the Béthanie sanatorium and the St Paul’s church ; and perhaps the most visible, the Court of Final Appeal, an elegant neo-classical three-storey building, with red bricks walls and Doric and Ionic columns.\n\nThe floral emblem of Hong Kong, the bauhinia, (as represented on the flag of the Hong Kong S.A.R. since 1997), was discovered by French people. The plant was first observed in Hong Kong by the Fathers of the French Foreign Missions near Mount Davis and was later studied by the Fathers of the Béthanie sanatorium in Pokfulam from specimens growing in their gardens in the 1880s.\n\nIn 2008, the Consulate General of France celebrated the 160th anniversary of the French presence in the territory. The French Mission building Béthanie in Pokfulam is one of their evident marks on Hong Kong history.\n\nBéthanie has had a long history under the occupancy of French priests and missionaries. Over the last century or so, the complex has served a number of religious purposes. From its roots as a sanatorium for priests to a printing press for HKU, Béthanie's roots were tied in deeply with early French Christianity and continued on throughout the 20th century.\n\nThe Béthanie's chapel is still used for religious purposes. Notably, the Béthanie Chapel has been used since 17 December 2006 for regular Sunday services by the Emmanuel Church - Pokfulam a daughter church of St. John's Cathedral (Anglican), which carries on the historical Christian use of the site. Furthermore, the chapel is also made available to the public for weddings, other religious services and ceremonies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8682800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8682800", "title": "Children of the Century", "text": "Children of the Century\n\nChildren of the Century () is a 1999 French film based on the true tale of the tumultuous love affair between two French literary icons of the 19th century, novelist George Sand (Juliette Binoche) and poet Alfred de Musset (Benoît Magimel).\n\nThe story begins as George Sand quits her marital home and arrives in Paris with her two children. Meanwhile, the young poet and dandy Alfred de Musset is busy making a name for himself both as a womaniser and a talented poet and critic. Sand and Musset first meet at a literary dinner and quickly recognise in each other a like minded love of literature. At first their relationship remains platonic, but soon the pair embark on a tumultuous affair that will lead them to Venice and the creation of their finest works of literature.\n\nThe film was shot on location in Paris, Nohant and Venice from August to December 1998. In an interview with \"The Irish Times\" entitled \"Playing with Sand\", Diane Kurys revealed that she was shooting in the actual rooms Sand and Musset had occupied in the Hotel Danieli, while Juliette Binoche revealed that Sand's estate had loaned the production some of her possessions including a sapphire ring and jewel-encrusted dagger. When asked about her inspiration for the film, Kurys mentioned that Musset's account of the affair in his book \"La Confession d'un Enfant du Siècle\" was her starting point. Binoche said that her attraction to the part was due to \"Sand's combination of strengths and weaknesses\".\n\n\nLes Enfants du Siècle made its world premiere out of competition at the 1999 Cannes Film Festival before being released in French theatres on September 22, 1999.\n\nThe film made its North American debut at the 1999 Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nThe film made its UK debut as part of the \"Martell French Film Tour\" in September and October 2000, followed by a conventional cinematic run starting on April 6, 2001.\n\n\nThe soundtrack album to accompany the film was released by Decca Classics. The original music featured in the film consisting of a guitar and piano score was composed by Luis Bacalov. The film also features music by Ernst Eichner, Robert Schumann, Franz Liszt among others. The score was recorded in January 1999 by the Rome Symphony Orchestra and featuring Fábio Zanon on guitar and Leonid Kuzmin on piano. The album was supervised by Murray Head.\n\nAll tracks composed by Luis Bacalov unless otherwise indicated:\n\nThe film was released in 2 versions with different running times. The long version as released in France on September 22, 1999 has a running time of 135 mins. It begins as Sand abandons her husband and arrives in revolution torn Paris and Musset's father dies of cholera. A shorter version was released in Germany and the UK and other territories which runs at 105mins. It begins at the literary event at which Sand and Musset met and ends with their final meeting. The longer version goes on to show Sand's attempts to see the dying Musset, and ends with her reading her letters to him by his tomb.\n\nLes Enfants du Siècle was released under the English language title Children of the Century in the US by Koch Lorber Films, but retained its French language title while on release in the UK, Canada and Australia. The film was distributed in the UK by Film Four, in Canada by Alliance Atlantis and in Australia by AE Classics.\n\nTwo books were published in conjunction with the film. \"Les Enfants du Siecle\" ( ) is a novelization of the screen play by François-Olivier Rousseau. \"Sand & Musset\" () is a large format coffee-table book exploring the history of Sand and Musset and the production of the film, co-written by Jean-Pierre Guéno, Roselyne de Ayala, and Diane Kurys, with lavish illustrations by Maxime Rebiere.\n\n"}
{"id": "33606349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33606349", "title": "Chris Boneau", "text": "Chris Boneau\n\nChris Boneau is a veteran theatrical publicist.\n\nBoneau formed Boneau/Bryan-Brown, a partnership with Adrian Bryan-Brown, in 1991. The company's credits include \"Angels in America\", \"Art\", \"Assassins\", \"The Book of Mormon\", \"The Boy from Oz\", \"Caroline, or Change\", \"The Color Purple\", \"A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum\", \"Guys and Dolls\", \"Gypsy\", \"The Real Thing\", \"Spamalot\", \"Take Me Out\", \"Urinetown\", \"The Who's Tommy\", the Atlantic Theater Company, Manhattan Theatre Club, the Roundabout Theater Company and Walt Disney Theatrical Productions.\n\nMr. Boneau also serves on the Steering Committee for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS, is an adjunct professor at Columbia University's Oscar Hammerstein II Center for Theatre Studies and serves on the board of the Atlantic Theater Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "8705108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8705108", "title": "Cloudbusting", "text": "Cloudbusting\n\n\"Cloudbusting\" is a song written, produced and performed by British singer Kate Bush. It was the second single released from her number one 1985 album \"Hounds of Love\". \"Cloudbusting\" peaked at No. 20 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe song is about the very close relationship between psychologist and philosopher Wilhelm Reich and his young son, Peter, told from the point of view of the mature Peter. It describes the boy's memories of his life with Reich on their family farm, called Orgonon where the two spent time \"cloudbusting\", a rain-making process which involved using a machine designed and built by Reich - a machine called a cloudbuster - to point at the sky. The lyric further describes the elder Reich's abrupt arrest and imprisonment, the pain of loss the young Peter felt, and his helplessness at being unable to protect his father. The song was inspired by Peter Reich's 1973 memoir, \"A Book of Dreams\", which Bush read and found deeply moving.\n\nIn a retrospective review of the single, Allmusic journalist Amy Hanson praised the song for its \"magnificence\" and \"hypnotic mantric effects\". Hanson wrote: \"Safety and danger are threaded through the song, via both a thoughtful lyric and a compulsive cello-driven melody. Even more startling, but hardly surprising, is the ease with which Bush was able to capture the moment when a child first realizes that adults are fallible.\"\n\nThe music video, directed by Julian Doyle, was conceived by Terry Gilliam and Kate Bush as a short film. The video features Canadian actor Donald Sutherland playing the role of Wilhelm Reich, and Bush in the role of his young son, Peter. The video shows the two on the top of a hill trying to make the cloudbuster work. Reich leaves Peter on the machine and returns to his lab. In flashback, he remembers several times he and Peter enjoyed together as Reich worked on various scientific projects, until he is interrupted by government officials who arrest him and ransack the lab. Peter senses his father's danger and tries to reach him, but is forced to watch helplessly as his father is driven away. Peter finally runs back to the cloudbuster and activates it successfully, to the delight of his father who sees it starting to rain.\n\nFilming took place at The Vale of White Horse in Oxfordshire, England. The hill on which the machine is positioned is Dragon Hill, immediately below the Uffington White Horse, a prehistoric hill carving which can be seen briefly in a couple of the shots. Bush found out in which hotel Sutherland was staying from actress Julie Christie's hairdresser and went to his room to personally ask him to participate in the project. In the UK, the music video was shown at some cinemas as an accompaniment to the main feature. Due to difficulties on obtaining a work visa for Sutherland at short notice, the actor offered to work on the video for free. Although the events depicted in the story took place in Maine, the newspaper clipping in the music video reads \"The Oregon Times,\" likely a reference to Reich's home and laboratory \"Orgonon\".\n\nThe Cloudbusting machine in the video was designed and constructed by people who worked on the Alien creature and bears only a superficial resemblance to the real cloudbusters, which were smaller and with multiple narrow, straight tubes and pipes, and were operated while standing on the ground. In a reference to the source material of the song, Bush pulls a copy of Peter Reich's \"A Book of Dreams\" from Sutherland's coat.\n\nThe full length video features a longer version of the song which is different from the \"Organon Mix\" released on 12 inch.\n\nAround the time of the release Bush sent Peter Reich a VHS copy of the music video. Reich was immediately a fan. He later told \"Dazed\" magazine \"Quite magically, this British musician had tapped precisely into a unique and magical fulfilment of father-son devotion, emotion and understanding. They had captured it all.\"\n\nUtah Saints sampled the song's line \"I just know that something good is going to happen\" for their song \"Something Good\" (1992) as well as scenes from Bush's video for their video. It reached No. 4 on the UK Singles Chart and No. 8 when re-mixed and re-released in 2008 (the latter of which used a different sample from another artist).\n\nItalian metal band Novembre covered this song, as did as American rock band The Twilight Singers. American singer-songwriter Charlotte Martin covered this song in 2007 on her all-covers album \"Reproductions\". Scottish pop act Swimmer One recorded an electro cover version of this song in 2005, released by Dogbox Records. UK punk band P.A.I.N. used a sample in their song \"Eastern Dub (Wilhelm Reich in Hell)\", without the permission of record label EMI.\n\nNeil Halstead covered the track for American Laundromat Records children's charity compilation \"Sing Me to Sleep - Indie Lullabies\" in 2010.\n\nIrish singer Gemma Hayes covered the song in 2009, and performed it on her tours in 2011 and 2012.\n\nWild Nothing covered \"Cloudbusting\" in 2010.\n\nIn 2012, Geographer released a version of the song on their website.\n\nNeil Cicierega's 2014 album of mashups, \"Mouth Silence\", features a mashup between \"Cloudbusting\" and Katy Perry's song \"California Gurls\", called \"Orgonon Gurlz.\" Cicierega has publicly stated that \"Cloudbusting\" is one of his favorite songs, while \"California Gurlz\" is his least.\n\nCanadian alternative rock singer-songwriter Matthew Good covered the song with Holly McNarland on his 2015 album \"Chaotic Neutral\".\n\nIn late 2016 U.S. dance act Just Us released a cover of the song, but titled it \"Everytime It Rains\". In February 2017 they rerecorded the vocals with the vocalist Lucy Pullin and released the track with record label support, and titled it \"Cloudbusting\".\n\nThe B-Side to the single was \"Burning Bridge\", in which a woman desperately pleads with her lover to step up his level of commitment to her. The 12\" featured the additional track \"My Lagan Love\", a traditional Irish melody with lyrics by John Carder Bush, Kate Bush's brother. The 12\" version of \"Cloudbusting\" was a special remix called \"The Organon Re-Mix\" in which the verses were downplayed and the main focus was the development of the song's chorus. In the USA, this mix was issued as \"The Meteorological Mix\", a title used in the UK for 12\" version of Bush's later single \"The Big Sky\".\n\n7\" single (UK)\n12\" single (UK)\nCD single (US)\nIn Australia, \"Cloudbusting\" narrowly missed the Kent Music Report top 100 singles chart in January 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "50263518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50263518", "title": "Commission on Elections data breach", "text": "Commission on Elections data breach\n\nOn March 27, 2016, hackers under the banner, Anonymous Philippines hacked into the website of the Philippine Commission on Elections (COMELEC) and defaced it. The hackers left a message calling for tighter security measures on the vote counting machines (VCM) to be used during the 2016 Philippine general election in May 9. Within the day a separate group of hackers, LulzSec Pilipinas posted an online link to what it claims to be the entire database of COMELEC and updated the post to include three mirror link to the index of the database's downloadable files. The leaked files by LulzSec Pilipinas amounts to 340 gigabytes.\n\nThe website returned to normal at 03:15 (PST) on 28 March 2016. spokesperson, James Jimenez, stated on his Twitter account that, as they continue to scour the site, all databases would remain temporarily off.\n\nThe incident was considered the biggest private leak data in the Philippine history and leaving millions of registered voters at risk.\n\n55 million registered voters are at risk due to the data breach according to security firm, Trend Micro potentially surpassing the Office of Personnel Management data breach which affected 20 million people.\n\nA searchable website, called \"wehaveyourdata\", was set up containing sensitive data on Filipino registered voters was set up as early as April 21. The website was taken down with the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice since the domain of the website was bought from a US-based web hosting company. The website itself was found to be hosted in Russia.\n\nTrend Micro conducted its own investigation on the extent of the data breach. It found that 1.3 million records of Overseas Filipino voters, which included passport numbers and expiry dates were included in the data dumps by the hackers. The security firm found the breach as \"alarming\" since it said that the data are easily accessible to the public were in plain text. It also added that 15.8 million record of fingerprints along with a list of people who have run for office since the 2010 elections were found by the firm's investigation.\nThe firm also found files concerning candidates running in the election with the filename \"VOTESOBTAINED\" which the firm infers to reflect the number of votes received by the particular candidates. It said that the figures of the \"VOTESOBTAINED\" files were set to NULL at the time Trend Micro conducted its investigation.\n\nThe Commission on Elections chairman, Andres Bautista said that he was told that no confidential information was leaked, saying the breach would not affect the election body's preparation for the 2016 elections. The commission also emphasized that the database on its website is accessible to the public and no sensitive information is hosted on the website. It said that the results website that the election body is planning will be hosted in a different website with a different and better set of security measures. It further added that the database might be fake saying that no biometrics date were compromised by the hackers as opposed to Trend Micro's findings. COMELEC also noted that Trend Micro accessed the dumped data by hackers on its investigation and said that it has no capability of validating the data since it had no access to its original database.\n\nOn April 12, COMELEC announced that the National Bureau of Investigation had a \"very good lead\" regarding the hackers behind the breach. The perpetrators are to be charged of violations of the Cybercrime Prevention Act.\n\nOn 20 April, the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) apprehended one of the suspected hackers, later identified as Paul Biteng, the 20-year-old IT graduate student, in his home in Sampaloc, Manila. The authorities took three weeks in order to track down the hacker. The NBI confiscated Biteng's desktop computer, he used for hacking, for forensic examination. Biteng, who is a member of the hacking group \"Anonymous Philippines\", admitted that he defaced the COMELEC website, but denied the contribution in data leak. He also admitted that the hacking was intended to show how vulnerable of the COMELEC website is. Possible cases against him include a violation of the Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012.\n\nAbout eight days later, a second hacker, named Joenel de Asis — also a 23-year-old Computer Science graduate, apprehended by NBI at his house in Muntinlupa. In a press conference held on April 29, COMELEC chairperson Andres D. Bautista identified de Asis as one of the ringleaders of the notorious hacker group, \"Lulzsec Pilipinas\". Bautista said that de Asis admitted hacking the website and leaking the Comelec database. He also admitted that he collaborated with Biteng in the hacking incident. Biteng breached the server of the Comelec website, while De Asis downloaded the 340 gigabyte voter database five days before the website was defaced on March 27. While De Asis leaked the data though the Lulzsec Pilipinas website, he denied that their group created the website, \"wehaveyourdata\". He assured that the data leak will not affect the upcoming elections as they did not hack Vote Counting Machines (VCMs) since it is connected to a different server.\n\nThe third hacker, which is yet to be identified, is still at large.\n\nOn April 21, COMELEC announced that they will be making consultations with Microsoft and other cybersecurity experts based in the United Kingdom, Singapore and the United States. A technical working group tasked to look on the issue of hacking was also formed which is to be led by Director James Jimenez of the Comelec Information and Education Department. The website will be transferred to the Department of Science and Technology's server.\n\nThe National Privacy Commission decided on December 28, 2016 (case no. 16-001) said that the COMELEC found responsible for violating the Data Privacy Act of 2012 and the criminal prosecution of Chairman Andres Bautista is recommended.\n\n"}
{"id": "45272042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45272042", "title": "Crash Override Network", "text": "Crash Override Network\n\nCrash Override Network is a support group for victims of large scale online abuse, including revenge porn and doxing.\n\nCrash Override was founded by game developers Zoë Quinn and Alex Lifschitz, and is staffed exclusively by victims of online abuse whose identities are kept anonymous outside the group. Quinn and Lifschitz were subjected to online abuse during the Gamergate controversy, having both received death threats and doxing attacks.\n\nCrash Override formed a partnership with Feminist Frequency in March 2016, which serves as its fiscal sponsor.\n\nThe founders of Crash Override consider it a conversation starter, a repository for addressing problems that others in and out of the gaming community \"have long hoped would simply go away.\" The organisation's services are divided into three categories: ongoing assistance for victims, crisis centre support, and community outreach. They provide post-crisis counseling services, help seeking shelter, and access to experts in information security, white hat hacking, law enforcement, public relations and threat monitoring. The network tailors a unique plan of action for each victim and works with law enforcement, the media, and social media. They promise to help victims regardless of previous affiliations and ideology, including Gamergate supporters.\n\nThe group has been credited with defusing a swatting attack by advising the target to preemptively contact the police. Quinn said the launch of Crash Override Network led to a renewed and heightened campaign of abuse, and the website underwent daily hack attempts. In May 2015 the organisation became an official Twitter trusted safety resource.\n"}
{"id": "27046954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27046954", "title": "Deepwater Horizon oil spill", "text": "Deepwater Horizon oil spill\n\nThe \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill (also referred to as the BP oil spill/leak, the BP oil disaster, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and the Macondo blowout) is an industrial disaster that began on 20 April 2010, in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP-operated Macondo Prospect, considered to be the largest marine oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry and estimated to be 8% to 31% larger in volume than the previous largest, the Ixtoc I oil spill. The U.S. government estimated the total discharge at . After several failed efforts to contain the flow, the well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010. Reports in early 2012 indicated that the well site was still leaking.\n\nA massive response ensued to protect beaches, wetlands and estuaries from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships, floating booms, controlled burns and of oil dispersant. Due to the months-long spill, along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities, extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats and fishing and tourism industries was reported. In Louisiana, of oily material was removed from the beaches in 2013, over double the amount collected in 2012. Oil cleanup crews worked four days a week on of Louisiana shoreline throughout 2013. Oil continued to be found as far from the Macondo site as the waters off the Florida Panhandle and Tampa Bay, where scientists said the oil and dispersant mixture is embedded in the sand. In April 2013, it was reported that dolphins and other marine life continued to die in record numbers with infant dolphins dying at six times the normal rate. One study released in 2014 reported that tuna and amberjack that were exposed to oil from the spill developed deformities of the heart and other organs that would be expected to be fatal or at least life-shortening and another study found that cardiotoxicity might have been widespread in animal life exposed to the spill.\n\nNumerous investigations explored the causes of the explosion and record-setting spill. The U.S. government September 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the well, faulting mostly BP, but also rig operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton. Earlier in 2011, a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an inadequate safety system, but also concluded that the spill resulted from \"systemic\" root causes and \"absent significant reform in both industry practices and government policies, might well recur\".\n\nIn November 2012, BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal criminal charges with BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter, two misdemeanors, and a felony count of lying to Congress. BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its safety practices and ethics, and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government. BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $4.525 billion in fines and other payments. , criminal and civil settlements and payments to a trust fund had cost the company $42.2 billion.\n\nIn September 2014, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that BP was primarily responsible for the oil spill because of its gross negligence and reckless conduct. In July 2015, BP agreed to pay $18.7 billion in fines, the largest corporate settlement in U.S. history.\n\nHow the misuse of categorical exclusion for National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) compliance relates to this spill is described in Regulatory Capture.\n\nThe \"Deepwater Horizon\" was a 10-year-old semi-submersible, mobile, floating, dynamically positioned drilling rig that could operate in waters up to deep. Built by South Korean company Hyundai Heavy Industries and owned by Transocean, the rig operated under the Marshallese flag of convenience, and was chartered to BP from March 2008 to September 2013. It was drilling a deep exploratory well, below sea level, in approximately of water. The well is situated in the Macondo Prospect in Mississippi Canyon Block 252 (MC252) of the Gulf of Mexico, in the United States' exclusive economic zone. The Macondo well is found roughly off the Louisiana coast. BP was the operator and principal developer of the Macondo Prospect with a 65% share, while 25% was owned by Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, and 10% by MOEX Offshore 2007, a unit of Mitsui.\n\nAt approximately , on 20 April 2010, high-pressure methane gas from the well expanded into the drilling riser and rose into the drilling rig, where it ignited and exploded, engulfing the platform. At the time, 126 crew members were on board: seven BP employees, 79 of Transocean, and employees of various other companies. Eleven missing workers were never found despite a three-day U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) search operation and are believed to have died in the explosion. Ninety-four crew members were rescued by lifeboat or helicopter, 17 of whom were treated for injuries. The Deepwater Horizon sank on the morning of 22 April 2010.\n\nThe oil leak was discovered on the afternoon of 22 April 2010 when a large oil slick began to spread at the former rig site. The oil flowed for 87 days. BP originally estimated a flow rate of . The Flow Rate Technical Group (FRTG) estimated the initial flow rate was . The total estimated volume of leaked oil approximated with plus or minus 10% uncertainty, including oil that was collected, making it the world's largest accidental spill. BP challenged the higher figure, saying that the government overestimated the volume. Internal emails released in 2013 showed that one BP employee had estimates that matched those of the FRTG, and shared the data with supervisors, but BP continued with their lower number. The company argued that government figures do not reflect over of oil that was collected or burned before it could enter the Gulf waters.\n\nAccording to the satellite images, the spill directly affected of ocean, which is comparable to the size of Oklahoma. By early June 2010, oil had washed up on of Louisiana's coast and along the Mississippi, Florida, and Alabama coastlines. Oil sludge appeared in the Intracoastal Waterway and on Pensacola Beach and the Gulf Islands National Seashore. In late June, oil reached Gulf Park Estates, its first appearance in Mississippi. In July, tar balls reached Grand Isle and the shores of Lake Pontchartrain. In September a new wave of oil suddenly coated of Louisiana coastline and marshes west of the Mississippi River in Plaquemines Parish. In October, weathered oil reached Texas. , about of coastline in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida were contaminated by oil and a total of had been oiled since the spill began. , of coastline remain subject to evaluation and/or cleanup operations.\n\nConcerns were raised about the appearance of underwater, horizontally extended plumes of dissolved oil. Researchers concluded that deep plumes of dissolved oil and gas would likely remain confined to the northern Gulf of Mexico and that the peak impact on dissolved oxygen would be delayed and long lasting.\nTwo weeks after the wellhead was capped on 15 July 2010, the surface oil appeared to have dissipated, while an unknown amount of subsurface oil remained. Estimates of the residual ranged from a 2010 NOAA report that claimed about half of the oil remained below the surface to independent estimates of up to 75%.\n\nThat means that over (2.4 million barrels) remained in the Gulf. , tar balls, oil sheen trails, fouled wetlands marsh grass and coastal sands were still evident. Subsurface oil remained offshore and in fine silts. In April 2012, oil was still found along as much as of Louisiana coastline and tar balls continued to wash up on the barrier islands. In 2013, some scientists at the Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill and Ecosystem Science Conference said that as much as one-third of the oil may have mixed with deep ocean sediments, where it risks damage to ecosystems and commercial fisheries.\n\nIn 2013, more than of \"oiled material\" was removed from the Louisiana coast. Although only \"minute\" quantities of oil continued to wash up in 2013, patches of tar balls were still being reported almost every day from Alabama and Florida Panhandle beaches. Regular cleanup patrols were no longer considered justified but cleanup was being conducted on an as-needed basis, in response to public reports.\n\nIt was first thought that oil had not reached as far as Tampa Bay, Florida; however, a study done in 2013 found that one of the plumes of dispersant-treated oil had reached a shelf off the Tampa Bay region. According to researchers, there is \"some evidence it may have caused lesions in fish caught in that area\".\n\nFirst, BP unsuccessfully attempted to close the blowout preventer valves on the wellhead with remotely operated underwater vehicles. Next, it placed a 125-tonne (280,000 lb) containment dome over the largest leak and piped the oil to a storage vessel. While this technique had worked in shallower water, it failed here when gas combined with cold water to form methane hydrate crystals that blocked the opening at the top of the dome. Pumping heavy drilling fluids into the blowout preventer to restrict the flow of oil before sealing it permanently with cement (\"top kill\") also failed.\n\nBP then inserted a riser insertion tube into the pipe and a stopper-like washer around the tube plugged at the end of the riser and diverted the flow into the insertion tube. The collected gas was flared and oil stored on board the drillship \"Discoverer Enterprise\". Before the tube was removed, it collected of oil. On 3 June 2010, BP removed the damaged drilling riser from the top of the blowout preventer and covered the pipe by the cap which connected it to another riser. On 16 June, a second containment system connected directly to the blowout preventer began carrying oil and gas to service vessels, where it was consumed in a clean-burning system. The United States government's estimates suggested the cap and other equipment were capturing less than half of the leaking oil. On 10 July, the containment cap was removed to replace it with a better-fitting cap (\"Top Hat Number 10\"). Mud and cement were later pumped in through the top of the well to reduce the pressure inside it which didn't work either. A final device was created to attach a chamber of larger diameter than the flowing pipe with a flange that bolted to the top of the blowout preventer and a manual valve set to close off the flow once attached. On 15 July, the device was secured and time was taken closing the valves to ensure the attachment under increasing pressure until the valves were closed completing the temporary measures.\n\nIn mid-May, United States Secretary of Energy Steven Chu assembled a team of nuclear physicists, including hydrogen bomb designer Richard Garwin and Sandia National Laboratories director Tom Hunter. Oil expert Matthew Simmons maintained that a nuclear explosion was the only way BP could permanently seal the well and cited successful Soviet attempts to seal off runaway gas wells with nuclear blasts. A spokesperson for the U.S. Energy Department said that \"neither Energy Secretary Steven Chu nor anyone else\" ever considered this option. On 24 May, BP ruled out conventional explosives, claiming that if blasts failed to clog the well, \"we would have denied ourselves all other options.\"\n\nTransocean's \"Development Driller III\" started drilling a first relief well on 2 May 2010. \"GSF Development Driller II\" started drilling a second relief on 16 May 2010. On 3 August 2010, first test oil and then drilling mud was pumped at a slow rate of approximately per minute into the well-head. Pumping continued for eight hours, at the end of which time the well was declared to be \"in a static condition.\" On 4 August 2010, BP began pumping cement from the top, sealing that part of the flow channel permanently.\n\nOn 3 September 2010, the 300-ton failed blowout preventer was removed from the well and a replacement blowout preventer was installed. On 16 September 2010, the relief well reached its destination and pumping of cement to seal the well began. On 19 September 2010, National Incident Commander Thad Allen declared the well \"effectively dead\" and said that it posed no further threat to the Gulf.\n\nIn May 2010, BP admitted they had \"discovered things that were broken in the sub-surface\" during the \"top kill\" effort.\n\nOil slicks were reported in March and August 2011, in March and October 2012, and in January 2013. Repeated scientific analyses confirmed that the sheen was a chemical match for oil from Macondo well.\n\nThe USCG initially said the oil was too dispersed to recover and posed no threat to the coastline, but later warned BP and Transocean that they might be held financially responsible for cleaning up the new oil. USGS director Marcia McNutt stated that the riser pipe could hold at most because it is open on both ends, making it unlikely to hold the amount of oil being observed.\n\nIn October 2012, BP reported that they had found and plugged leaking oil from the failed containment dome, now abandoned about from the main well. In December 2012, the USCG conducted a subsea survey; no oil coming from the wells or the wreckage was found and its source remains unknown. In addition, a white, milky substance was observed seeping from the wreckage. According to BP and the USCG, it is \"not oil and it's not harmful.\"\n\nIn January 2013, BP said that they were continuing to investigate possible sources of the oil sheen. Chemical data implied that the substance might be residual oil leaking from the wreckage. If that proves to be the case, the sheen can be expected to eventually disappear. Another possibility is that it is formation oil escaping from the subsurface, using the Macondo well casing as flow conduit, possibly intersecting a naturally occurring fault, and then following that to escape at the surface some distance from the wellhead. If it proves to be oil from the subsurface, then that could indicate the possibility of an indefinite release of oil. The oil slick was comparable in size to naturally occurring oil seeps and was not large enough to pose an immediate threat to wildlife.\n\nThe fundamental strategies for addressing the spill were containment, dispersal and removal. In summer 2010, approximately 47,000 people and 7,000 vessels were involved in the project. By 3 October 2012, federal response costs amounted to $850 million, mostly reimbursed by BP. , 935 personnel were still involved. By that time cleanup had cost BP over $14 billion.\n\nIt was estimated with plus-or-minus 10% uncertainty that of oil was released from the well; of oil went into the Gulf. The report led by the Department of the Interior and the NOAA said that \"75% [of oil] has been cleaned up by Man or Mother Nature\"; however, only about 25% of released oil was collected or removed while about 75% of oil remained in the environment in one form or another. In 2012, Markus Huettel, a benthic ecologist at Florida State University, maintained that while much of BP's oil was degraded or evaporated, at least 60% remains unaccounted for.\n\nIn May 2010, a local native set up a network for people to volunteer their assistance in cleaning up beaches. Boat captains were given the opportunity to offer the use of their boat to help clean and prevent the oil from further spreading. To assist with the efforts the captains had to register their ships with the Vessels of Opportunity, however an issue arose when more boats registered than actually participated in the clean up efforts - only a third of the registered boats. Many local supporters were disappointed with BP's slow response, prompting the formation of The Florida Key Environmental Coalition. This coalition gained significant influence in the clean up of the oil spill to try and gain some control over the situation.\n\nContainment booms stretching over were deployed, either to corral the oil or as barriers to protect marshes, mangroves, shrimp/crab/oyster ranches or other ecologically sensitive areas. Booms extend above and below the water surface and were effective only in relatively calm and slow-moving waters. Including one-time use sorbent booms, a total of of booms were deployed. Booms were criticized for washing up on the shore with the oil, allowing oil to escape above or below the boom, and for ineffectiveness in more than three to four-foot (90–120 cm) waves.\n\nThe Louisiana barrier island plan was developed to construct barrier islands to protect the coast of Louisiana. The plan was criticised for its expense and poor results. Critics allege that the decision to pursue the project was political with little scientific input. The EPA expressed concern that the booms would threaten wildlife.\n\nFor a time, a group called Matter of Trust, citing insufficient availability of manufactured oil absorption booms, campaigned to encourage hair salons, dog groomers and sheep farmers to donate hair, fur and wool clippings, stuffed in pantyhose or tights, to help contain oil near impacted shores, a technique dating back to the Exxon Valdez disaster.\n\nThe spill was also notable for the volume of Corexit oil dispersant used and for application methods that were \"purely experimental.\" Altogether, of dispersants were used; of this were released at the wellhead. Subsea injection had never previously been tried but due to the spill's unprecedented nature BP together with USCG and EPA decided to use it. Over 400 sorties were flown to release the product. Although usage of dispersants was described as \"the most effective and fast moving tool for minimizing shoreline impact\", the approach continues to be investigated.\n\nA 2011 analysis conducted by Earthjustice and Toxipedia showed that the dispersant could contain cancer-causing agents, hazardous toxins and endocrine-disrupting chemicals. Environmental scientists expressed concerns that the dispersants add to the toxicity of a spill, increasing the threat to sea turtles and bluefin tuna. The dangers are even greater when poured into the source of a spill, because they are picked up by the current and wash through the Gulf. According to BP and federal officials, dispersant use stopped after the cap was in place; however, marine toxicologist Riki Ott wrote in an open letter to the EPA that Corexit use continued after that date and a GAP investigation stated that \"[a] majority of GAP witnesses cited indications that Corexit was used after [July 2010].\"\n\nAccording to a NALCO manual obtained by GAP, Corexit 9527 is an “eye and skin irritant. Repeated or excessive exposure ... may cause injury to red blood cells (hemolysis), kidney or the liver.” The manual adds: “Excessive exposure may cause central nervous system effects, nausea, vomiting, anesthetic or narcotic effects.” It advises, “Do not get in eyes, on skin, on clothing,” and “Wear suitable protective clothing.” For Corexit 9500 the manual advised, “Do not get in eyes, on skin, on clothing,” “Avoid breathing vapor,” and “Wear suitable protective clothing.” According to FOIA requests obtained by GAP, neither the protective gear nor the manual were distributed to Gulf oil spill cleanup workers.\n\nCorexit EC9500A and Corexit EC9527A were the principal variants. The two formulations are neither the least toxic, nor the most effective, among EPA's approved dispersants, but BP said it chose to use Corexit because it was available the week of the rig explosion. On 19 May, the EPA gave BP 24 hours to choose less toxic alternatives to Corexit from the National Contingency Plan Product Schedule, and begin applying them within 72 hours of EPA approval or provide a detailed reasoning why no approved products met the standards. On 20 May, BP determined that none of the alternative products met all three criteria of availability, non-toxicity and effectiveness. On 24 May, EPA Administrator Lisa P. Jackson ordered EPA to conduct its own evaluation of alternatives and ordered BP to reduce dispersant use by 75%. BP reduced Corexit use by per day, a 9% decline. On 2 August 2010, the EPA said dispersants did no more harm to the environment than the oil and that they stopped a large amount of oil from reaching the coast by breaking it down faster. However, some independent scientists and EPA's own experts continue to voice concerns about the approach.\n\nUnderwater injection of Corexit into the leak may have created the oil plumes which were discovered below the surface. Because the dispersants were applied at depth, much of the oil never rose to the surface. One plume was long, more than wide and deep. In a major study on the plume, experts were most concerned about the slow pace at which the oil was breaking down in the cold, water at depths of .\n\nIn late 2012, a study from Georgia Tech and Universidad Autonoma de Aguascalientes in Environmental Pollution journal reported that Corexit used during the BP oil spill had increased the toxicity of the oil by 52 times. The scientists concluded that \"Mixing oil with dispersant increased toxicity to ecosystems\" and made the gulf oil spill worse.\"\n\nThe three basic approaches for removing the oil from the water were: combustion, offshore filtration, and collection for later processing. USCG said of tainted water was recovered, including of oil. BP said had been recovered or flared. It is calculated that about 5% of leaked oil was burned at the surface and 3% was skimmed. On the most demanding day 47,849 people were assigned on the response works.\n\nFrom April to mid-July 2010, 411 controlled \"in-situ\" fires remediated approximately . The fires released small amounts of toxins, including cancer-causing dioxins. According to EPA's report, the released amount is not enough to pose an added cancer risk to workers and coastal residents, while a second research team concluded that there was only a small added risk.\n\nOil was collected from water by using skimmers. In total 2,063 various skimmers were used. For offshore, more than 60 open-water skimmers were deployed, including 12 purpose-built vehicles. EPA regulations prohibited skimmers that left more than 15 parts per million (ppm) of oil in the water. Many large-scale skimmers exceeded the limit. Due to use of Corexit the oil was too dispersed to collect, according to a spokesperson for shipowner TMT. In mid-June 2010, BP ordered 32 machines that separate oil and water, with each machine capable of extracting up to . After one week of testing, BP began to proceed and by 28 June, had removed .\n\nAfter the well was captured, the cleanup of shore became the main task of the response works. Two main types of affected coast were sandy beaches and marshes. On beaches the main techniques were sifting sand, removing tar balls, and digging out tar mats manually or by using mechanical devices. For marshes, techniques such as vacuum and pumping, low-pressure flush, vegetation cutting, and bioremediation were used.\n\nDispersants are said to facilitate the digestion of the oil by microbes. Mixing dispersants with oil at the wellhead would keep some oil below the surface and in theory, allowing microbes to digest the oil before it reached the surface. Various risks were identified and evaluated, in particular that an increase in microbial activity might reduce subsea oxygen levels, threatening fish and other animals.\n\nSeveral studies suggest that microbes successfully consumed part of the oil. By mid-September, other research claimed that microbes mainly digested natural gas rather than oil. David L. Valentine, a professor of microbial geochemistry at UC Santa Barbara, said that the capability of microbes to break down the leaked oil had been greatly exaggerated. However, biogeochemist Chris Reddy, said natural microorganisms are a big reason why the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico was not far worse.\n\nGenetically modified \"Alcanivorax borkumensis\" was added to the waters to speed digestion. The delivery method of microbes to oil patches was proposed by the Russian Research and Development Institute of Ecology and the Sustainable Use of Natural Resources.\n\nOn 18 May 2010, BP was designated the lead \"Responsible Party\" under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which meant that BP had operational authority in coordinating the response.\n\nThe first video images were released on 12 May, and further video images were released by members of Congress who had been given access to them by BP.\n\nDuring the spill response operations, at the request of the Coast Guard, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) implemented a temporary flight restriction zone over the operations area. Restrictions were to prevent civilian air traffic from interfering with aircraft assisting the response effort. All flights in the operations' area were prohibited except flight authorized by air traffic control; routine flights supporting offshore oil operations; federal, state, local and military flight operations supporting spill response; and air ambulance and law enforcement operations. Exceptions for these restrictions were granted on a case-by-case basis dependent on safety issues, operational requirements, weather conditions, and traffic volume. No flights, except aircraft conducting aerial chemical dispersing operations, or for landing and takeoff, were allowed below . Notwithstanding restrictions, there were 800 to 1,000 flights per day during the operations.\n\nLocal and federal authorities citing BP's authority denied access to members of the press attempting to document the spill from the air, from boats, and on the ground, blocking access to areas that were open to the public. In some cases photographers were granted access only with BP officials escorting them on BP-contracted boats and aircraft. In one example, the U.S. Coast Guard stopped Jean-Michel Cousteau's boat and allowed it to proceed only after the Coast Guard was assured that no journalists were on board. In another example, a CBS News crew was denied access to the oil-covered beaches of the spill area. The CBS crew was told by the authorities: \"this is BP's rules, not ours,\" when trying to film the area. Some members of Congress criticized the restrictions placed on access by journalists.\n\nThe FAA denied that BP employees or contractors made decisions on flights and access, saying those decisions were made by the FAA and Coast Guard. The FAA acknowledged that media access was limited to hired planes or helicopters, but was arranged through the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard and BP denied having a policy of restricting journalists; they noted that members of the media had been embedded with the authorities and allowed to cover response efforts since the beginning of the effort, with more than 400 embeds aboard boats and aircraft to date. They also said that they wanted to provide access to the information while maintaining safety.\n\nOn 15 April 2014, BP claimed that cleanup along the coast was substantially complete, but the United States Coast Guard responded by stating that a lot of work remained. Using physical barriers such as floating booms, cleanup workers' objective was to keep the oil from spreading any further. They used skimmer boats to remove a majority of the oil and they used sorbents to absorb any remnant of oil like a sponge. Although that method did not remove the oil completely, chemicals called dispersants are used to hasten the oil's degradation to prevent the oil from doing further damage to the marine habitats below the surface water. For the Deep Horizon oil spill, cleanup workers used of various chemical dispersants to further breakdown the oil.\n\nThe State of Louisiana was funded by BP to do regular testing of fish, shellfish, water, and sand. Initial testing regularly showed detectable levels of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate, a chemical used in the clean up. Testing over the past year reported by GulfSource.org, for the pollutants tested have not produced results.\n\nThe spill area hosts 8,332 species, including more than 1,270 fish, 604 polychaetes, 218 birds, 1,456 mollusks, 1,503 crustaceans, 4 sea turtles and 29 marine mammals. Between May and June 2010, the spill waters contained 40 times more polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) than before the spill. PAHs are often linked to oil spills and include carcinogens and chemicals that pose various health risks to humans and marine life. The PAHs were most concentrated near the Louisiana Coast, but levels also jumped 2–3 fold in areas off Alabama, Mississippi and Florida. PAHs can harm marine species directly and microbes used to consume the oil can reduce marine oxygen levels. The oil contained approximately 40% methane by weight, compared to about 5% found in typical oil deposits. Methane can potentially suffocate marine life and create \"dead zones\" where oxygen is depleted.\n\nA 2014 study of the effects of the oil spill on bluefin tuna funded by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Stanford University, and the Monterey Bay Aquarium and published in the journal \"Science\", found that the toxins from oil spills can cause irregular heartbeats leading to cardiac arrest. Calling the vicinity of the spill \"one of the most productive ocean ecosystems in the world\", the study found that even at very low concentrations \"PAH cardiotoxicity was potentially a common form of injury among a broad range of species in the vicinity of the oil.\" Another peer-reviewed study, released in March 2014 and conducted by 17 scientists from the United States and Australia and published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, found that tuna and amberjack that were exposed to oil from the spill developed deformities of the heart and other organs that would be expected to be fatal or at least life-shortening.\nThe scientists said that their findings would most likely apply to other large predator fish and \"even to humans, whose developing hearts are in many ways similar.\" BP responded that the concentrations of oil in the study were a level rarely seen in the Gulf, but \"The New York Times\" reported that the BP statement was contradicted by the study.\nThe oil dispersant Corexit, previously only used as a surface application, was released underwater in unprecedented amounts, with the intent of making it more easily biodegraded by naturally occurring microbes. Thus, oil that would normally rise to the surface of the water was emulsified into tiny droplets and remained suspended in the water and on the sea floor. The oil and dispersant mixture permeated the food chain through zooplankton. Signs of an oil-and-dispersant mix were found under the shells of tiny blue crab larvae. A study of insect populations in the coastal marshes affected by the spill also found a significant impact. Chemicals from the spill were found in migratory birds as far away as Minnesota. Pelican eggs contained \"petroleum compounds and Corexit\". Dispersant and PAHs from oil are believed to have caused \"disturbing numbers\" of mutated fish that scientists and commercial fishers saw in 2012, including 50% of shrimp found lacking eyes and eye sockets. Fish with oozing sores and lesions were first noted by fishermen in November 2010. Prior to the spill, approximately 0.1% of Gulf fish had lesions or sores. A report from the University of Florida said that many locations showed 20% of fish with lesions, while later estimates reached 50%. In October 2013, Al Jazeera reported that the gulf ecosystem was \"in crisis\", citing a decline in seafood catches, as well as deformities and lesions found in fish.\n\nIn July 2010, it was reported that the spill was \"already having a 'devastating' effect on marine life in the Gulf\". Damage to the ocean floor especially endangered the Louisiana pancake batfish whose range is entirely contained within the spill-affected area. In March 2012, a definitive link was found between the death of a Gulf coral community and the spill. According to NOAA, a cetacean Unusual Mortality Event (UME) has been recognized since before the spill began, NOAA is investigating possible contributing factors to the ongoing UME from the Deepwater Horizon spill, with the possibility of eventual criminal charges being filed if the spill is shown to be connected. Some estimates are that only 2% of the carcasses of killed mammals have been recovered.\nIn the first birthing season for dolphins after the spill, dead baby dolphins washed up along Mississippi and Alabama shorelines at about 10 times the normal number. A peer-reviewed NOAA/BP study disclosed that nearly half the bottlenose dolphins tested in mid-2011 in Barataria Bay, a heavily oiled area, were in “guarded or worse” condition, \"including 17 percent that were not expected to survive\". BP officials deny that the disease conditions are related to the spill, saying that dolphin deaths actually began being reported before the BP oil spill. By 2013, over 650 dolphins had been found stranded in the oil spill area, a four-fold increase over the historical average. The National Wildlife Federation (NWF) reports that sea turtles, mostly endangered Kemp’s ridley sea turtles, have been stranding at a high rate. Before the spill there were an average of 100 strandings per year; since the spill the number has jumped to roughly 500.\nNWF senior scientist Doug Inkley notes that the marine death rates are unprecedented and occurring high in the food chain, strongly suggesting there is \"something amiss with the Gulf ecosystem\". In December 2013, the journal \"Environmental Science & Technology\" published a study finding that of 32 dolphins briefly captured from 24-km stretch near southeastern Louisiana, half were seriously ill or dying. BP said the report was “inconclusive as to any causation associated with the spill”.\nIn 2012, tar balls continued to wash up along the Gulf coast and in 2013, tar balls could still be found in on the Mississippi and Louisiana coasts, along with oil sheens in marshes and signs of severe erosion of coastal islands, brought about by the death of trees and marsh grass from exposure to the oil. In 2013, former NASA physicist Bonny Schumaker noted a \"dearth of marine life\" in a radius around the well, after flying over the area numerous times since May 2010.\n\nIn 2013, researchers found that oil on the bottom of the seafloor did not seem to be degrading, and observed a phenomenon called a \"dirty blizzard\": oil in the water column began clumping around suspended sediments, and falling to the ocean floor in an \"underwater rain of oily particles.\" The result could have long-term effects because oil could remain in the food chain for generations.\n\nA 2014 bluefin tuna study in \"Science\" found that oil already broken down by wave action and chemical dispersants was more toxic than fresh oil. A 2015 study of the relative toxicity of oil and dispersants to coral also found that the dispersants were more toxic than the oil.\n\nA 2015 study by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, published in \"PLOS ONE,\" links the sharp increase in dolphin deaths to the \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill.\n\nOn 12 April 2016, a research team reported that 88 percent of about 360 baby or stillborn dolphins within the spill area \"had abnormal or under-developed lungs\", compared to 15 percent in other areas. The study was published in the April 2016 \" Diseases of Aquatic Organisms\".\n\nBy June 2010, 143 spill-exposure cases had been reported to the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals; 108 of those involved workers in the clean-up efforts, while 35 were reported by residents. Chemicals from the oil and dispersant are believed to be the cause; it is believed that the addition of dispersants made the oil more toxic.\n\nThe United States Department of Health and Human Services set up the GuLF Study in June 2010 in response to these reports. The study is run by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, and will last at least five years.\n\nMike Robicheux, a Louisiana physician, described the situation as \"the biggest public health crisis from a chemical poisoning in the history of this country.\" In July, after testing the blood of BP cleanup workers and residents in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida for volatile organic compounds, environmental scientist Wilma Subra said she was \"finding amounts 5 to 10 times in excess of the 95th percentile\"; she said that \"the presence of these chemicals in the blood indicates exposure.\" Riki Ott, a marine toxicologist with experience of the Exxon Valdez oil spill, advised families to evacuate the Gulf. She said that workers from the Valdez spill had suffered long-term health consequences.\n\nFollowing the 26 May 2010 hospitalization of seven fishermen that were working in the cleanup crew, BP requested that the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health perform a Health Hazard Evaluation. This was to cover all offshore cleanup activities, BP later requested a second NIOSH investigation of onshore cleanup operations. Tests for chemical exposure in the seven fishermen were negative; NIOSH concluded that the hospitalizations were most likely a result of heat, fatigue, and terpenes that were being used to clean the decks. Review of 10 later hospitalizations found that heat exposure and dehydration were consistent findings but could not establish chemical exposure. NIOSH personnel performed air monitoring around cleanup workers at sea, on land, and during the application of Corexit. Air concentrations of volatile organic compounds and PAHs never exceeded permissible exposure levels. A limitation of their methodology was that some VOCs may have already evaporated from the oil before they began their investigation. In their report, they suggest the possibility that respiratory symptoms might have been caused by high levels of ozone or reactive aldehydes in the air, possibly produced from photochemical reactions in the oil. NIOSH did note that many of the personnel involved were not donning personal protective equipment (gloves and impermeable coveralls) as they had been instructed to and emphasized that this was important protection against transdermal absorption of chemicals from the oil. Heat stress was found to be the most pressing safety concern.\n\nWorkers reported that they were not allowed to use respirators, and that their jobs were threatened if they did. OSHA said \"cleanup workers are receiving \"minimal\" exposure to airborne toxins...OSHA will require that BP provide certain protective clothing, but not respirators.\" \"ProPublica\" reported that workers were being photographed while working with no protective clothing. An independent investigation for Newsweek showed that BP did not hand out the legally required safety manual for use with Corexit, and were not provided with safety training or protective gear.\n\nA 2012 survey of the health effects of the spill on cleanup workers reported \"eye, nose and throat irritation; respiratory problems; blood in urine, vomit and rectal bleeding; seizures; nausea and violent vomiting episodes that last for hours; skin irritation, burning and lesions; short-term memory loss and confusion; liver and kidney damage; central nervous system effects and nervous system damage; hypertension; and miscarriages\". Dr. James Diaz, writing for the \"American Journal of Disaster Medicine\", said these ailments appearing in the Gulf reflected those reported after previous oil spills, like the Exxon Valdez. Diaz warned that \"chronic adverse health effects, including cancers, liver and kidney disease, mental health disorders, birth defects and developmental disorders should be anticipated among sensitive populations and those most heavily exposed\". Diaz also believes neurological disorders should be expected.\n\nTwo years after the spill, a study initiated by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health found biomarkers matching the oil from the spill in the bodies of cleanup workers. Other studies have reported a variety of mental health issues, skin problems, breathing issues, coughing, and headaches. In 2013, during the three-day \"Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill & Ecosystem Science Conference\", findings discussed included a '\"significant percentage\" of Gulf residents reporting mental health problems like anxiety, depression and PTSD. These studies also showed that the bodies of former spill cleanup workers carry biomarkers of \"many chemicals contained in the oil\".\n\nA study that investigated the health effects among children in Louisiana and Florida living less than 10 miles from the coast found that more than a third of the parents reported physical or mental health symptoms among their children. The parents reported \"unexplained symptoms among their children, including bleeding ears, nose bleeds, and the early start of menstruation among girls,\" according to David Abramson, director of Columbia University's National Center for Disaster Preparedness.\n\nA cohort study of almost 2,200 Louisiana women found \"high physical/environmental exposure was significantly associated with all 13 of the physical health symptoms surveyed, with the strongest associations for burning in nose, throat or lungs ; sore throat; dizziness and wheezing. Women who suffered a high degree of economic disruption as a result of spill were significantly more likely to report wheezing; headaches; watery, burning, itchy eyes and stuffy, itchy, runny nose.\n\nThe spill had a strong economic impact to BP and also the Gulf Coast's economy sectors such as offshore drilling, fishing and tourism. Estimates of lost tourism dollars were projected to cost the Gulf coastal economy up to 22.7 billion through 2013. In addition, Louisiana reported that lost visitor spending through the end of 2010 totaled $32 million, and losses through 2013 were expected to total $153 million in this state alone. The Gulf of Mexico commercial fishing industry was estimated to have lost $247 million as a result of postspill fisheries closures. One study projects that the overall impact of lost or degraded commercial, recreational, and mariculture fisheries in the Gulf could be $8.7 billion by 2020, with a potential loss of 22,000 jobs over the same time frame. BP's expenditures on the spill included the cost of the spill response, containment, relief well drilling, grants to the Gulf states, claims paid, and federal costs, including fines and penalties. , BP estimated the company's total spill-related expenses do not exceed $37.2 billion. However, by some estimations penalties that BP may be required to pay have reached as high as $90 billion. In addition, in November 2012 the EPA announced that BP will be temporarily banned from seeking new contracts with the US government. Due to the loss of the market value, BP had dropped from the second to the fourth largest of the four major oil companies by 2013. During the crisis, BP gas stations in the United States reported a sales drop of between 10 and 40% due to backlash against the company.\n\nLocal officials in Louisiana expressed concern that the offshore drilling moratorium imposed in response to the spill would further harm the economies of coastal communities as the oil industry directly or indirectly employs about 318,000 Louisiana residents (17% of all jobs in the state). NOAA had closed , or approximately 36% of Federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico, for commercial fishing causing $2.5 billion cost for the fishing industry. The U.S. Travel Association estimated that the economic impact of the oil spill on tourism across the Gulf Coast over a three-year period could exceed approximately $23 billion, in a region that supports over 400,000 travel industry jobs generating $34 billion in revenue annually.\n\nOn 30 April 2010, President Barack Obama ordered the federal government to hold the issuing of new offshore drilling leases and authorized the investigation of 29 oil rigs in the Gulf in an effort to determine the cause of the disaster. Later a six-month offshore drilling (below of water) moratorium was enforced by the United States Department of the Interior. The moratorium suspended work on 33 rigs, and a group of affected companies formed the Back to Work Coalition. On 22 June, a United States federal judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana Martin Leach-Cross Feldman when ruling in the case \"Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar\", lifted the moratorium finding it too broad, arbitrary and not adequately justified. The ban was lifted in October 2010.\n\nOn 28 April 2010, the National Energy Board of Canada, which regulates offshore drilling in the Canadian Arctic and along the British Columbia Coast, issued a letter to oil companies asking them to explain their argument against safety rules which require same-season relief wells. On 3 May California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger withdrew his support for a proposed plan to allow expanded offshore drilling projects in California. On 8 July, Florida Governor Charlie Crist called for a special session of the state legislature to draft an amendment to the state constitution banning offshore drilling in state waters, which the legislature rejected on 20 July.\n\nIn October 2011, the United States Department of the Interior's Minerals Management Service was dissolved after it was determined it had exercised poor oversight over the drilling industry. Three new agencies replaced it, separating the regulation, leasing, and revenue collection responsibilities respectively, among the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, and Office of Natural Resources Revenue.\n\nIn March 2014, BP was again allowed to bid for oil and gas leases.\n\nOn 30 April, President Obama dispatched the Secretaries of the Department of Interior and Homeland Security, as well as the EPA Administrator and NOAA to the Gulf Coast to assess the disaster. In his 15 June speech, Obama said, \"This oil spill is the worst environmental disaster America has ever faced... Make no mistake: we will fight this spill with everything we've got for as long as it takes. We will make BP pay for the damage their company has caused. And we will do whatever's necessary to help the Gulf Coast and its people recover from this tragedy.\" Interior Secretary Ken Salazar stated, \"Our job basically is to keep the boot on the neck of British Petroleum.\" Some observers suggested that the Obama administration was being overly aggressive in its criticisms, which some BP investors saw as an attempt to deflect criticism of his own handling of the crisis. Rand Paul accused President Obama of being anti-business and \"un-American\".\n\nPublic opinion polls in the U.S. were generally critical of the way President Obama and the federal government handled the disaster and they were extremely critical of BPs response. Across the US, thousands participated in dozens of protests at BP gas stations and other locations, reducing sales at some stations by 10% to 40%.\n\nIndustry claimed that disasters are infrequent and that this spill was an isolated incident and rejected claims of a loss of industry credibility. The American Petroleum Institute (API) stated that the offshore drilling industry is important to job creation and economic growth. CEOs from the top five oil companies all agreed to work harder at improving safety. API announced the creation of an offshore safety institute, separate from API's lobbying operation.\nThe Organization for International Investment, a Washington D.C.-based advocate for overseas investment in the United States, warned that the heated rhetoric was potentially damaging the reputation of British companies with operations in the United States and could spark a wave of U.S. protectionism that would restrict British firms from government contracts, political donations and lobbying.\n\nIn July 2010, President Obama issued an executive order, specifically citing the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, that adopted recommendations from the Interagency Ocean Policy Task Force and established the National Ocean Council. The council called together a number of federal committees and departments engaged in ocean issues to work with a newly established committee for conservation and resource management. In June 2018, the executive order establishing the National Ocean Council was revoked by President Trump in an effort to roll back bureaucracy and \"benefit ocean industries employ millions of Americans.\"\n\nIn the UK, there was anger at the American press and news outlets for the misuse of the term \"British Petroleum\" for the company – a name which has not been used since British Petroleum merged with the American company Amoco in 1998 to form BP. It was said that the U.S. was 'dumping' the blame onto the British people and there were calls for British Prime Minister David Cameron to protect British interests in the United States. British pension fund managers (who have large holdings of BP shares and rely upon its dividends) accepted that while BP had to pay compensation for the spill and the environmental damage, they argued that the cost to the company's market value from President Obama's criticism was far outweighing the direct clean-up costs.\n\nInitially, BP downplayed the incident; its CEO Tony Hayward called the amount of oil and dispersant \"relatively tiny\" in comparison with the \"very big ocean.\" Later, he drew an outpouring of criticism when he said that the spill was a disruption to Gulf Coast residents and himself adding, \"You know, I'd like my life back.\" BP's chief operating officer Doug Suttles contradicted the underwater plume discussion noting, \"It may be down to how you define what a plume is here… The oil that has been found is in very minute quantities.\" In June, BP launched a PR campaign and successfully bid for several search terms related to the spill on Google and other search engines so that the first sponsored search result linked directly to the company's website. On 26 July 2010, it was announced that CEO Tony Hayward was to resign and would be replaced by Bob Dudley, who is an American citizen and previously worked for Amoco.\n\nHayward's involvement in Deepwater Horizon has left him a highly controversial public figure. In May 2013, he was honored as a \"distinguished leader\" by the University of Birmingham, but his award ceremony was stopped on multiple occasions by jeers and walk-outs and the focus of a protest from People & Planet members.\n\nIn July 2013, Hayward was awarded an honorary degree from Robert Gordon University. This was described as \"a very serious error of judgement\" by Friends of the Earth Scotland, and \"a sick joke\" by the university's Student President.\n\nThe U.S. government rejected offers of cleanup help from Canada, Croatia, France, Germany, Ireland, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Romania, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United Nations. \nThe U.S. State Department listed 70 assistance offers from 23 countries, all being initially declined, but later, 8 had been accepted. The USCG actively requested skimming boats and equipment from several countries.\n\nIn the United States the \"Deepwater Horizon\" investigation included several investigations and commissions, including reports by the USCG National Incident Commander, Admiral Thad Allen, the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEMRE), National Academy of Engineering, National Research Council, Government Accountability Office, National Oil Spill Commission, and Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. The Republic of the Marshall Islands Maritime Administrator conducted a separate investigation on the marine casualty. BP conducted its internal investigation.\n\nAn investigation of the possible causes of the explosion was launched on 22 April 2010 by the USCG and the Minerals Management Service. On 11 May the United States administration requested the National Academy of Engineering conduct an independent technical investigation. The National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling was established on 22 May to \"consider the root causes of the disaster and offer options on safety and environmental precautions.\" The investigation by United States Attorney General Eric Holder was announced on 1 June 2010. Also the United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce conducted a number of hearings, including hearings of Tony Hayward and heads of Anadarko and Mitsui's exploration unit. According to the US Congressional investigation, the rig's blowout preventer, built by Cameron International Corporation, had a hydraulic leak and a failed battery, and therefore failed.\n\nOn 8 September 2010, BP released a 193-page report on its web site. The report places some of the blame for the accident on BP but also on Halliburton and Transocean. The report found that on 20 April 2010, managers misread pressure data and gave their approval for rig workers to replace drilling fluid in the well with seawater, which was not heavy enough to prevent gas that had been leaking into the well from firing up the pipe to the rig, causing the explosion. The conclusion was that BP was partly to blame, as was Transocean, which owned the rig. Responding to the report, Transocean and Halliburton placed all blame on BP.\n\nOn 9 November 2010, a report by the Oil Spill Commission said that there had been \"a rush to completion\" on the well and criticised poor management decisions. \"There was not a culture of safety on that rig,\" the co-chair said.\n\nThe National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling released a final report on 5 January 2011. The panel found that BP, Halliburton, and Transocean had attempted to work more cheaply and thus helped to trigger the explosion and ensuing leakage. The report stated that \"whether purposeful or not, many of the decisions that BP, Halliburton, and Transocean made that increased the risk of the Macondo blowout clearly saved those companies significant time (and money).\" BP released a statement in response to this, saying, that \"even prior to the conclusion of the commission's investigation, BP instituted significant changes designed to further strengthen safety and risk management.\" Transocean, however, blamed BP for making the decisions before the actual explosion occurred and government officials for permitting those decisions. Halliburton stated that it was acting only upon the orders of BP when it injected the cement into the wall of the well. It criticized BP for its failure to run a cement bond log test. In the report, BP was accused of nine faults. One was that it had not used a diagnostic tool to test the strength of the cement. Another was ignoring a pressure test that had failed. Still another was for not plugging the pipe with cement. The study did not, however, place the blame on any one of these events. Rather, it concluded that \"notwithstanding these inherent risks, the accident of April 20 was avoidable\" and that \"it resulted from clear mistakes made in the first instance by BP, Halliburton and Transocean, and by government officials who, relying too much on industry's assertions of the safety of their operations, failed to create and apply a program of regulatory oversight that would have properly minimized the risk of deepwater drilling.\" The panel also noted that the government regulators did not have sufficient knowledge or authority to notice these cost-cutting decisions.\n\nOn 23 March 2011, BOEMRE (former MMS) and the USCG published a forensic examination report on the blowout preventer, prepared by Det Norske Veritas. The report concluded that the primary cause of failure was that the blind shear rams failed to fully close and seal due to a portion of drill pipe buckling between the shearing blocks.\n\nThe US government report issued in September 2011 stated that BP is ultimately responsible for the spill, and that Halliburton and Transocean share some of the blame. The report states that the main cause was the defective cement job, and Halliburton, BP and Transocean were, in different ways, responsible for the accident. The report stated that, although the events leading to the sinking of Deepwater Horizon were set into motion by the failure to prevent a well blowout, the investigation revealed numerous systems deficiencies, and acts and omissions by Transocean and its \"Deepwater Horizon\" crew, that had an adverse impact on the ability to prevent or limit the magnitude of the disaster. The report also states that a central cause of the blowout was failure of a cement barrier allowing hydrocarbons to flow up the wellbore, through the riser and onto the rig, resulting in the blowout. The loss of life and the subsequent pollution of the Gulf of Mexico were the result of poor risk management, last‐minute changes to plans, failure to observe and respond to critical indicators, inadequate well control response, and insufficient emergency bridge response training by companies and individuals responsible for drilling at the Macondo well and for the operation of the drilling platform.\n\nOn 16 June 2010, after BP executives met with President Obama, BP announced and established the Gulf Coast Claims Facility (GCCF), a $20 billion fund to settle claims arising from the Deepwater Horizon spill. This fund was set aside for natural resource damages, state and local response costs, and individual compensation, but could not be used for fines or penalties. Prior to establishing the GCCF, emergency compensation was paid by BP from an initial facility.\n\nThe GCCF was administrated by attorney Kenneth Feinberg. The facility began accepting claims on 23 August 2010. On 8 March 2012, after BP and a team of plaintiffs' attorneys agreed to a class-action settlement, a court-supervised administrator Patrick Juneau took over administration. Until this more than one million claims of 220,000 individual and business claimants were processed and more than $6.2 billion was paid out from the fund. 97% of payments were made to claimants in the Gulf States. In June 2012, the settlement of claims through the GCCF was replaced by the court supervised settlement program. During this transition period additional $404 million in claims were paid.\n\nThe GCCF and its administrator Feinberg had been criticized about the amount and speed of payments as well as a lack of transparency. An independent audit of the GCCF, announced by Attorney General Eric Holder, was approved by Senate on 21 October 2011. An auditor BDO Consulting found that 7,300 claimants were wrongly denied or underpaid. As a result, about $64 million of additional payments was made.\nThe Mississippi Center for Justice provided pro bono assistance to 10,000 people to help them \"navigate the complex claims process.\" In a \"New York Times\" opinion piece, Stephen Teague, staff attorney at the Mississippi Center for Justice, argued that BP had become \"increasingly brazen\" in \"stonewalling payments.\" \"But tens of thousands of gulf residents still haven't been fully compensated for their losses, and many are struggling to make ends meet. Many low-wage workers in the fishing and service industries, for example, have been seeking compensation for lost wages and jobs for three years.\"\n\nIn July 2013, BP made a motion in court to freeze payments on tens of thousands of claims, arguing inter alia that a staff attorney from the Deepwater Horizon Court-Supervised Settlement Program, the program responsible for evaluating compensation claims, had improperly profited from claims filed by a New Orleans law firm. The attorney is said to have received portions of settlement claims for clients he referred to the firm. The federal judge assigned to the case, Judge Barbier, refused to halt the settlement program, saying he had not seen evidence of widespread fraud, adding that he was \"offended by what he saw as attempts to smear the lawyer administering the claims.\"\n\nBy 26 May 2010, over 130 lawsuits relating to the spill had been filed against one or more of BP, Transocean, Cameron International Corporation, and Halliburton Energy Services, although it was considered likely by observers that these would be combined into one court as a multidistrict litigation. On 21 April 2011, BP issued $40 billion worth of lawsuits against rig owner Transocean, cementer Halliburton and blowout preventer manufacturer Cameron. The oil firm alleged failed safety systems and irresponsible behaviour of contractors had led to the explosion, including claims that Halliburton failed to properly use modelling software to analyze safe drilling conditions. The firms deny the allegations.\n\nOn 2 March 2012, BP and plaintiffs agreed to settle their lawsuits. The deal would settle roughly 100,000 claims filled by individuals and businesses affected by the spill. On 13 August, BP asked US District Judge Carl Barbier to approve the settlement, saying its actions \"did not constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct\". On 13 January 2013, Judge Barbier approved a medical-benefits portion of BP's proposed $7.8 billion partial settlement. People living for at least 60 days along oil-impacted shores or involved in the clean-up who can document one or more specific health conditions caused by the oil or dispersants are eligible for benefits, as are those injured during clean-up. BP also agreed to spend $105 million over five years to set up a Gulf Coast health outreach program and pay for medical examinations. According to a group presenting the plaintiffs, the deal has no specific cap. BP says that it has $9.5 billion in assets set aside in a trust to pay the claims, and the settlement will not increase the $37.2 billion the company budgeted for spill-related expenses. BP originally expected to spend $7.8 billion. By October 2013 it had increased its projection to $9.2 billion, saying it could be \"significantly higher.\"\n\nOn 31 August 2012, the US Department of Justice (DOJ) filed papers in federal court in New Orleans blaming BP for the Gulf oil spill, describing the spill as an example of \"gross negligence and willful misconduct.\" In their statement the DOJ said that some of BP's arguments were \"plainly misleading\" and that the court should ignore BP's\nargument that the Gulf region is \"undergoing a robust recovery\". BP rejected the charges saying \"BP believes it was not grossly negligent and looks forward to presenting evidence on this issue at trial in January.\" The DOJ also said Transocean, the owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon rig, was guilty of gross negligence as well.\n\nOn 14 November 2012, BP and the US Department of Justice reached a settlement. BP will pay $4.5 billion in fines and other payments, the largest of its kind in US history. In addition, the U.S. government temporarily banned BP from new federal contracts over its \"lack of business integrity\". The plea was accepted by Judge Sarah Vance of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana on 31 January 2013. The settlement includes payments of $2.394 billion to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, $1.15 billion to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, $350 million to the National Academy of Sciences for oil spill prevention and response research, $100 million to the North America Wetland Conservation Fund, $6 million to General Treasury and $525 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Oil sector analysts at London-based investment bank Canaccord Genuity noted that a settlement along the lines disclosed would only be a partial resolution of the many claims against BP.\n\nOn 3 January 2013, the US Justice Department announced \"Transocean Deepwater Inc. has agreed to plead guilty to violating the Clean Water Act and to pay a total of $1.4 billion in civil and criminal fines and penalties\". $800 million goes to Gulf Coast restoration Trust Fund, $300 million to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, $150 million to the National Wild Turkey Federation and $150 million to the National Academy of Sciences. MOEX Offshore 2007 agreed to pay $45 million to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, $25 million to five Gulf state and $20 million to supplemental environmental projects.\n\nOn 25 July 2013, Halliburton pleaded guilty to destruction of critical evidence after the oil spill and said it would pay the maximum allowable fine of $200,000 and will be subject to three years of probation.\n\nOn 9 July 2013, Alaska inventor and oil field veteran Chris McIntyre filed suit against BP, alleging that the company used his design to cap the Macondo Well without compensation. McIntyre sent BP the design for the capping device on 14 May 2010. BP subsequently used McIntyre's design (or one very similar) to shut in the well on 15 July 2010. BP maintains that its employees first conceived of the design some days before McIntyre. Both parties agree that the device did not exist prior to 20 April 2010. The case, Christopher McIntyre v. BP Exploration & Production is currently on appeal with the United States Court for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco. McIntyre seeks remand to the District Court of Alaska for a jury trial.\n\nIn January 2014, a panel of the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals rejected an effort by BP to curb payment of what it described as \"fictitious\" and \"absurd\" claims to a settlement fund for businesses and persons affected by the oil spill. BP said administration of the 2012 settlement was marred by the fact that people without actual damages could file a claim. The court ruled that BP hadn't explained \"how this court or the district court should identify or even discern the existence of 'claimants that have suffered no cognizable injury.'\" The Court then went further, calling BP's position \"nonsensical.\" The Supreme Court of the United States later refused to hear BP's appeal after victims and claimants, along with numerous Gulf coast area chambers of commerce, objected to the oil major's efforts to renege on the Settlement Agreement.\n\nIn September 2014, Halliburton agreed to settle a large percentage of legal claims against it by paying $1.1 billion into a trust by way of three installments over two years.\n\nBP and its partners in the oil well, Transocean and Halliburton, went on trial on 25 February 2013 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana in New Orleans to determine payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment. The plaintiffs included the U.S. Justice Department, Gulf states and private individuals. Tens of billions of dollars in liability and fines were at stake. A finding of gross negligence would result in a four-fold increase in the fines BP would have to pay for violating the federal Clean Water Act, and leave the company liable for punitive damages for private claims.\n\nThe trial's first phase was to determine the liability of BP, Transocean, Halliburton, and other companies, and if they acted with gross negligence and willful misconduct. The second phase scheduled in September 2013 focused on the flow rate of the oil and the third phase scheduled in 2014 was to consider damages. According to the plaintiffs' lawyers the major cause of an explosion was the mishandling of a rig safety test, while inadequate training of the staff, poor maintenance of the equipment and substandard cement were also mentioned as things leading to the disaster. According to \"The Wall Street Journal\" the U.S. government and Gulf Coast states had prepared an offer to BP for a $16 billion settlement. However, it was not clear if this deal had been officially proposed to BP and if BP has accepted it.\n\nOn 4 September 2014, U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier ruled BP was guilty of gross negligence and willful misconduct. He described BP's actions as \"reckless.\" He said Transocean's and Halliburton's actions were \"negligent.\" He apportioned 67% of the blame for the spill to BP, 30% to Transocean, and 3% to Halliburton. Fines would be apportioned commensurate with the degree of negligence of the parties, measured against the number of barrels of oil spilled. Under the Clean Water Act fines can be based on a cost per barrel of up to $4,300, at the discretion of the judge. The number of barrels was in dispute at the conclusion of the trial with BP arguing 2.5 million barrels were spilled over the 87 days the spill lasted, while the court contends 4.2 million barrels were spilled. BP issued a statement strongly disagreeing with the finding, and saying the court's decision would be appealed.\n\nBarbier ruled that BP had acted with “conscious disregard of known risks\" and rejected BP's assertion that other parties were equally responsible for the oil spill. His ruling stated that BP \"employees took risks that led to the largest environmental disaster in U.S. history,” that the company was “reckless,” and determined that several crucial BP decisions were “primarily driven by a desire to save time and money, rather than ensuring that the well was secure.” The ruling means that BP, which had already spent more than $28 billion on cleanup costs and damage claims, may be liable for another $18 billion in damages, four times the Clean Water Act maximum penalties and many times more than the $3.5 billion BP had already allotted. BP strongly disagreed with the ruling and filed an immediate appeal. The size of the ruling \"casts a cloud over BP’s future,\" \"The New York Times\" reported.\n\nOn 2 July 2015, BP, the U.S. Justice Department and five gulf states announced that the company agreed to pay a record settlement of $18.7 billion. To date BP's cost for the clean-up, environmental and economic damages and penalties has reached $54 billion.\n\nIn addition to the private lawsuits and civil governmental actions, the federal government charged multiple companies and five individuals with federal crimes.\n\nIn the November 2012 resolution of the federal charges against it, BP agreed to plead guilty to 11 felony counts related to the deaths of the 11 workers and paid a $4 billion fine. Transocean's plead guilty to a misdemeanor charge as part of its $1.4 billion fine.\n\nIn April 2012, the Justice Department filed the first criminal charge against Kurt Mix, a BP engineer, for obstructing justice by deleting messages showing that BP knew the flow rate was three times higher than initial claims by the company, and knew that \"Top Kill\" was unlikely to succeed, but claimed otherwise. Three more BP employees were charged in November 2012. Site managers Donald Vidrine and Robert Kaluza were charged with manslaughter for acting negligently in their supervision of key safety tests performed on the rig prior to the explosion, and failure to alert onshore engineers of problems in the drilling operation. David Rainey, BP's former vice-president for exploration in the Gulf of Mexico, was charged with obstructing Congress by misrepresenting the rate that oil was flowing out of the well. Lastly, Anthony Badalamenti, a Halliburton manager, was charged with instructing two employees to delete data related to Halliburton's cementing job on the oil well.\n\nNone of the charges against individuals resulted in any prison time, and no charges were levied against upper level executives. Anthony Badalementi was sentenced to one year probation, Donald Vidrine paid a $50,000 fine and received 10 months probation, Kurt Mix received 6 months probation, and David Rainey and Robert Kaluza were acquitted.\n\nIn 2012, \"We Just Decided To\", the pilot of the HBO series \"The Newsroom\", featured its characters covering the \"Deepwater Horizon\" story. The 2015 film \"The Runner\", directed by Austin Stark and starring Nicolas Cage, is a fictional story of a politician and his family set in the aftermath of the \"Deepwater Horizon\" disaster. \"Deepwater Horizon\" is a 2016 film based on the explosion, directed by Peter Berg and starring Mark Wahlberg.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23841618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23841618", "title": "Donaldson Awards", "text": "Donaldson Awards\n\nThe Donaldson Awards were a set of theatre awards established in 1944 by the drama critic Robert Francis in honor of W. H. Donaldson (1864–1925), the founder of \"The Billboard\" (now \"Billboard\") magazine.\n\nCategories included \"best new play\", \"best new musical\", \"best performance\", \"best debut\" and \"best costumes and set design\". The winners were chosen by votes of the theatre community at large with no predetermined nominees and the winners were presented with a gold key and a scroll.\n\nAccording to an article in \"Billboard\", \"The Donaldson Awards are the stages' accolades to their own.\"\n\nThe awards were discontinued in 1955 having been overshadowed by the Antoinette Perry Awards (Tony Awards).\n"}
{"id": "14748589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14748589", "title": "Emergency Architects Foundation", "text": "Emergency Architects Foundation\n\nThe Emergency Architects Foundation is a French non-governmental organization,\n\"\". It is organised as a not-for-profit foundation with the French Order of Architects as supporters and is accredited by the United Nations and the European Union.\nThe Emergency Architects Foundation is also present in Australia (Emergency Architects Australia) and in Canada (Emergency Architects Canada).\nThe aim of Emergency Architects is to bring help and technical aid to the victims of natural, technological and human disasters, not only in safety and security evaluations of the populations but also in post-disaster reconstruction programs focused on long-term development and risk mitigation.\n\nThe Emergency Architects Foundation was created in April 2001 by Patrick Coulombel (architect) in Amiens in Picardy, France as a result of the flooding of the River Somme in 2001. A group of architects formed the organisation so as to mobilize technical assistance to the disaster victims and protect the rich cultural heritage of the region.\n\nEmergency Architects Australia (EAA) was started in 2005 in response to the Indonesian tsunami and since that has worked in Indonesia, Pakistan, the Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Timor Leste, Papua New Guinea, Cook Islands, India and Australia. The president of EAA is Andrea Nield. EAA has over 300 members and is supported by the Union of International Architects, Australian Institute of Architects National, the Victorian and NSW RAIA Chapters, and The Council of the City of Sydney. Among the important collaborators are The European Union, UNHCR, UNICEF, NZAID, Australian Red Cross, World Vision, and Caritas.\n\nEmergency Architects Canada was founded in 2007 The president is Bernard Mac Namara.\n\nEmergency Architects has already led 28 actions in 24 countries, made more than 39,600 assessments and about 8,500 buildings.\n\nAt the moment, the foundation is undertaking 12 programs in the following countries: Afghanistan, Solomon Islands, Indonesia, Lebanon, Pakistan, Peru, Sri Lanka Chad, East Timor and Australia.\n\nThe main objectives of the Emergency Architects Foundation are:\n\nThe architects, engineers and planners have used their professional expertise (knowledge of risk prevention and of building) to provide appropriate and sustainable assistance to the populations affected by natural (tsunami, earthquake), technological (chemical factory explosion) or human (civil) disasters.\nThey always work with local populations and use local materials in their buildings.\n\nThe foundation employs 533 persons from 23 countries. Overall, more than 1,200 architects and engineers have been involved in Emergency Architects achievements in 21 countries.\n\nThe foundation takes part in the following operations:\n\n\nRebuilding\nRe-house displaced populations.\nPromote the training of locals, from masons to architects.\n\nFrance\n\nAfrica\n\nAsia\n\nEurope\n\nAmerica\n\nOceania\n\nThe Emergency Architects Foundation has received several awards:\n\n\nTwo international prizes for the Sigli, Indonesia Project:\n\nand:\n\n"}
{"id": "49778373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49778373", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 2017", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 2017\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 2017 was the 62nd edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Kiev, Ukraine, following Jamala's win at the in Stockholm, Sweden with the song \"1944\". This was the second time the contest took place in Kiev, after , as well as the fourth Eurovision event, after the Junior Eurovision Song Contest in and . The contest was held at the International Exhibition Centre and consisted of two semi-finals on 9 and 11 May, and the final on 13 May 2017. All three live shows were hosted by Oleksandr Skichko, Volodymyr Ostapchuk and Timur Miroshnychenko.\n\nForty-two countries participated in the contest. and returned to the contest after a year's absence, while withdrew on financial grounds. had originally planned to participate, but announced their withdrawal on 13 April 2017, after their representative, Julia Samoylova, was banned from entering Ukraine by virtue of having travelled directly from Russia to Crimea in 2015, a region that was annexed by Russia in 2014, to give a performance, which is illegal under Ukrainian law.\n\nThe winner was Portugal with the song \"Amar pelos dois\" (Loving For Both of Us), performed by Salvador Sobral and written by his sister Luísa Sobral. This was Portugal's first win – and first top five placing – in 53 years of participation, the longest winless run by a country in Eurovision history. It was also the first winning song entirely performed in a country's native language since 's \"Molitva\" in , and the first winner written in triple metre since 's \"The Voice\" in . Additionally, this was the second consecutive year in which a returning country won the contest following Ukraine's victory in 2016. The top three countries – Portugal, and – achieved the highest placing in their Eurovision history, while host country Ukraine received its worst placing to date in a Eurovision final. Out of the \"Big Five\" countries, only Italy, the pre-contest favourite, finished in the top ten, coming sixth. The EBU reported that 182 million viewers worldwide watched the contest, 22 million fewer than the 2016 record.\n\nThe contest took place in the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, following Ukraine's victory at the 2016 contest with the song \"1944\", written and performed by Jamala. The International Exhibition Centre has a capacity of approximately 11,000 attendees and is the largest exhibition centre in Kiev. Located in the western part of the Livoberezhna microdistrict, the centre was opened in October 2002, and its head since its construction was Anatoly Tkachenko.\n\nThe Deputy Chief of host broadcaster National Public Broadcasting Company of Ukraine (UA:PBC) and Head of Delegation for Ukraine, Viktoria Romanova, stated on 18 May 2016 that the first organisational meeting for the contest would take place before 8 June, during which the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and UA:PBC would go through the technical requirements for the contest, as well as any training required for the contest to take place in Ukraine. Romanova also announced that the venue for the contest would be announced over the summer.\n\nUA:PBC and the Ukrainian Government formally launched the bidding process for interested cities to apply to host the contest on 23 June. The selection of the host city was scheduled to be conducted in four stages:\n\nThe following criteria were outlined for the selection of the host city:\n\nSix cities submitted applications by the deadline of 8 July: Dnipro, Kharkiv, Kherson, Kiev, Lviv and Odessa. Prior to the opening of the bidding process, the cities of Cherkasy, Irpin, Uzhhorod and Vinnytsia had declared their interest in hosting the contest, but did not submit a formal bid. Ukrainian Culture Minister Yevhen Nyshchuk stated on 30 June that an appropriate venue for the contest does not exist in Ukraine, suggesting that the construction of a new venue in Kiev or Lviv should be considered.\n\nThe six candidate cities were officially presented to the LOC on 20 July in a two-hour live discussion show titled \"City Battle\", broadcast from the UA:Pershyi studios in Kiev and moderated by Timur Miroshnychenko, with radio commentary from Olena Zelinchenko. The show was broadcast on UA:Pershyi, Radio Ukraine and the UA:Pershyi YouTube channel with commentary in English and Ukrainian. During the show, a representative from each candidate city presented its bid in front of a live studio audience:\n\n\nMembers of the LOC, media representatives, Ukrainian musical experts and fans also participated in the discussion.\n\nUA:PBC announced on 22 July that the bids from Dnipro, Kiev and Odessa had been shortlisted for further consideration.\n\nThe EBU announced on 30 July that the host city would be announced \"in due course\", rather than on the previously stated date of 1 August, with Executive Supervisor of the contest Jon Ola Sand stating that the EBU \"really want to take the time it takes to come up with the right decision\". The Deputy General Director of UA:PBC, Oleksandr Kharebin, stated on 10 August that the host city would be announced on Ukrainian Independence Day, 24 August. The announcement was later scheduled to take place on 25 August; however, it was postponed at 14:00 EEST, one hour before it was due to take place, with NTU citing the need to further consider some fine details regarding the decision.\n\nAfter several delays in announcing the host city, UA:PBC announced on 8 September that they would be meeting with the Ukrainian Government and the LOC on 9 September and that a press conference to announce the host city was scheduled to take place at 13:00 EEST on the same day from the Government Press Centre in Kiev. Kiev was announced as the host city for the contest with the International Exhibition Centre selected as the venue.\n\nKey\n\nThe preliminary dates for the contest were announced on 14 March 2016 at a meeting of Heads of Delegation in Stockholm, with the semi-finals expected to take place on 16 and 18 May and the final on 20 May 2017. These preliminary dates were chosen by the EBU to avoid the contest coinciding with any major television and sporting events scheduled to take place around that time.\n\nHowever, the EBU announced on 24 June that the preliminary dates for the contest had been brought forward a week, with the semi-finals scheduled for 9 and 11 May and the final on 13 May. This was reportedly due to a request from UA:PBC, as the initial preliminary dates coincided with the Remembrance Day for the victims of the Deportation of the Crimean Tatars on 18 May. However, the current dates coincide with the second leg of the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League semi-finals.\n\nThe draw to determine the allocation of the participating countries into their respective semi-finals took place at Column Hall on 31 January 2017, hosted by Timur Miroshnychenko and Nika Konstantinova. The thirty-seven semi-finalists had been allocated into six pots, based on historical voting patterns as calculated by the contest's official televoting partner Digame. Drawing from different pots helps to reduce the chance of so-called \"bloc voting\" and increase suspense in the semi-finals.\n\nThe theme for the contest, \"Celebrate Diversity\", was unveiled on 30 January. Executive Supervisor for the contest, Jon Ola Sand, explained that \"[t]he notion of celebrating diversity is at the heart of Eurovision values From EAMV Recording Label: it is all-inclusive and all about countries around Europe, and beyond, joining together to celebrate both our common ground and our unique differences, as well as some great music.\" The logo and visual design of the contest incorporates imagery of stylized beads, with the main logo using the beads to form a traditional neck amulet.\n\nIt was announced on 27 February that the presenters for the contest would be Oleksandr Skichko and Volodymyr Ostapchuk, with Timur Miroshnychenko hosting the green room. It was the first time that the contest was presented by a male trio, and the second time that the contest did not feature a female presenter, after 1956. Miroshnychenko has previously co-hosted the Junior Eurovision Song Contest in and .\n\nIt was announced on 30 April that the creative teams from both the Eurovision network and Twitter had worked together to create three emoji that would accompany specific promotional hashtags for the duration of the contest. The heart emoji would appear alongside \"#ESC2017\" and \"#Eurovision\", while the winners' trophy emoji would be used for \"#12Points\" and \"#douzepoints\". The final emoji is the logo for the contest, which would appear alongside the hashtag \"#CelebrateDiversity\", the theme for the contest.\n\nThe EBU released details regarding the opening and interval acts for each of the live shows on 20 April. As the interval act of the first semi-final, Jamala performed a revamped version of \"1944\" as well as \"Zamanyly\" (). The second semi-final was opened with a medley of Eurovision songs by two of the presenters, Oleksandr Skichko and Volodymyr Ostapchuk, while the interval of the semi-final was a dance performance by Apache CREW called \"The Children's Courtyard\". In the final, Jamala again performed with her latest single \"I Believe in U\". ONUKA and Ukraine's National Academic Orchestra of Folk Instruments also performed.\n\nThe European Broadcasting Union announced on 31 October 2016 that forty-three countries would participate in the contest, equalling the record set in and . and returned after a year's absence, while withdrew on financial grounds. had originally planned to participate but announced their withdrawal on 13 April 2017, after their representative, Julia Samoylova, was banned from entering Ukraine by virtue of travelling directly from Russia to Crimea, a region that was annexed by Russia in 2014, to give a performance, which is illegal under Ukrainian law. This subsequently reduced the number of participating countries to forty-two.\n\nThe contest featured five representatives who also previously performed as lead vocalists for the same countries. Valentina Monetta, who performed in a duet this time, represented San Marino in three consecutive editions: , , and . The duo of Koit Toome and Laura Põldvere have both represented Estonia in different years: Toome in as a solo artist, finishing 12th place with the song \"Mere lapsed\", and Põldvere in as part of Suntribe, finishing 20th in the semi-final with the song \"Let's Get Loud\". Omar Naber represented Slovenia in , finishing 12th in the semi-final with the song \"Stop\". The SunStroke Project represented Moldova in alongside Olia Tira, finishing 22nd with the song \"Run Away\".\n\nThe contest also featured the group O'G3NE which previously represented the Netherlands at another Eurovision event, the Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2007, as Lisa, Amy and Shelley, with the song \"Adem in, Adem Uit\". In addition, the contest featured three lead singers previously participating as backing vocalists for the same countries. Israel's representative Imri Ziv who backed Nadav Guedj in and Hovi Star in , Serbia's representative Tijana Bogićević who backed Nina in and Azerbaijan's representative Dihaj who backed Samra, the representative for Azerbaijan in \n\nEighteen countries participated in the first semi-final. , and voted in this semi-final. The highlighted countries qualified for the final.\n\nEighteen countries participated in the second semi-final. , and voted in this semi-final. was originally planned to perform in position three, but withdrew from the contest after the artist they selected was banned from entering Ukraine, resulting in countries originally planned to perform fourth and later, to do so one place earlier. The highlighted countries qualified for the final.\nTwenty-six countries participated in the final, with all 42 participating countries eligible to vote. The running order for the final was revealed after the second semi-final qualifiers' press conference on 11 May.\n\nCountries in bold gave the maximum 24 points (12 points apiece from professional jury and televoting) to the specified entrant.\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points awarded by each country's professional jury in the first semi-final:\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points awarded by each country's televote in the first semi-final:\n\nCountries in bold gave the maximum 24 points (12 points apiece from professional jury and televoting) to the specified entrant.\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points awarded by each country's professional jury in the second semi-final:\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points awarded by each country's televote in the second semi-final:\n\nCountries in bold gave the maximum 24 points (12 points apiece from professional jury and televoting) to the specified entrant.\n\nEligibility for potential participation in the Eurovision Song Contest requires a national broadcaster with active EBU membership that would be able to broadcast the contest via the Eurovision network. The EBU issued an invitation of participation in the contest to all fifty-six active members and associate member Australia, with forty-two countries confirming their participation. , and five other countries did not publish their reasons for declining, however the following countries declined to participate, stating their reasons as shown below.\n\n\n\n\n\nIt was reported by the EBU that the contest was viewed by a worldwide television audience of approximately 182 million viewers, which was 22 million less than the 2016 record which was viewed by 204 million. The EBU stated that this decrease in viewing figures was likely a result of the withdrawal of Russia and its decision not to broadcast any of the three shows.\n\nThe spokespersons announced the 12-point score from their respective country's national jury in the following order:\n\nMost countries sent commentators to Kiev or commentated from their own country, in order to add insight to the participants and, if necessary, the provision of voting information. The EBU announced on 9 May, that all three shows would also be streamed live via YouTube.\n\n\n\n\nIn December 2016 Grytsak was appointed as a new head of the organizing committee. In February 2017, 21 team members resigned claiming that the new appointment effectively stopped the work for two months.\n\nFrance 2 announced on 9 February 2017 that they would participate at the contest with the song \"Requiem\", performed by Alma. However, it was discovered during the week of 17 February \"Requiem\" had been recorded and performed prior to 1 September 2016, the submission deadline set by the EBU, potentially violating the rules of the contest. Further investigation shows that \"Requiem\" had been performed at the end of January 2015. While France 2 had claimed not to be in breach of the rules of the contest, no ultimate decision had been made regarding their potential disqualification. No further reports were made regarding Alma's participation, and she was able to partake in the competition in May.\n\nChannel One Russia (C1R) announced on 12 March 2017 that they would participate at the contest with \"Flame Is Burning\", performed by Julia Samoylova. However, Samoylova was issued a three-year travel ban on entering Ukraine by the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) on 22 March, by virtue of illegally travelling directly from Russia to Crimea, a region that was annexed by Russia in 2014, in 2015 to give a performance. Entry to Crimea by non-Ukrainian citizens via Russia is illegal under Ukrainian law; however, Samoylova confirmed that she performed in Crimea in 2015.\n\nThe EBU responded by stating its commitment to ensuring that all participating countries would be able to perform in Kiev, while expressing their disappointment at the lack of compromise from C1R and UA:PBC. C1R were offered the opportunity to allow Samoylova to perform via satellite from a venue of their choice, but such a compromise was rejected by both C1R and the Ukrainian Government.\n\nThe Director General of the EBU, Ingrid Deltenre, condemned Ukraine's actions, describing them as \"abusing the Contest for political reasons\" and \"absolutely unacceptable\" C1R announced their withdrawal from the contest on 13 April, stating that they also might not broadcast the contest. C1R had not organised accommodation before their artist announcement, as is typically the case, and refused to attend the meeting of Heads of Delegation. By announcing their artist just before the deadline for entry submission to the contest and not booking a hotel, it was speculated that C1R had not intended to go due to audiences booing Russian artists in previous contests.\n\nAs part of the Russian Victory Day celebrations on 9 May, Samoylova gave another performance in Crimea, including the song which was intended to represent Russia at the contest.\n\nUnder a proposal by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Finance Minister Moshe Kahlon, the Israeli Broadcasting Authority (IBA) was reorganised into two separate entities: the Israel Public Broadcasting Corporation (IPBC), with responsibility for \"general programming\" such as entertainment, and another with responsibility for news and current affairs programming. The IPBC is also branded as \"KAN\" (). The EBU informed the IPBC executive board on 7 April that such a compromise would render them unable to remain a member without an outlet for news and current events programming. It has been reported that the IBA may cease to be a member of the EBU.\n\nThe IBA was expected to close down on 15 May 2017 before the IPBC was expected to launch. However, on 9 and 10 May 2017 the IBA unexpectedly closed down most of their operations in news and current affair programs. This Eurovision was the last program that Channel 1 aired under the IBA, where minimal staff of twenty people remained to ensure a smooth transmission on Channel 1. After the Eurovision the station displayed a slide about its closure. During the voting portion of the live telecast of the final Ofer Nachshon, Israeli voting spokesperson since 2009, bid farewell on behalf of the IBA before revealing their jury points. This was incorrectly reported by several British media outlets and in other countries as Israel leaving the Contest.\n\nIPBC applied for EBU membership later that year and was accepted, thus Israel continued to participate. They went on to win the contest the next year. The government passed a law splitting new corporation into two entities - one in charge for entertainment programs and the second is for news, which may create an obstacle for either entity joining EBU. However, the High Court of Justice issued a temporary injunction, blocking the split. If the split is cancelled permanently, the new Israel Public Broadcasting Corporation meets all requirements for joining EBU.\n\nNorsk rikskringkasting (NRK) had discussions with the EBU regarding the abolition of the rule prohibiting pre-recorded vocals during live performances at the contest. Such a rule is intended to guarantee the authenticity of live performances. The discussion stems from when Norwegian representative JOWST stated his displeasure at the rule in an interview on 24 March, in reference to the sampling technique of chopped vocals in his song \"Grab the Moment\" which cannot be attributed in the live performance.\n\nSuch discussions were also in place in , when pre-recorded vocals during the Croatian entry, \"Marija Magdalena\", performed by Doris Dragović, led to objections by the Norwegian delegation — led at the time by Jon Ola Sand. Such objections led the EBU to consider deducting a third of Croatia's final score, reducing it from 118 points to 79. However, such a deduction never occurred. The possible abolition of the rule, alongside the abolition of the live orchestra in 1999, has led some fans and critics of the contest to argue that the contest has become too commercialised and the authenticity of live performances has been compromised.\n\nAfter discussing the matter with the EBU, NRK were granted an exception to the rule. JOWST stated that \"[the Norwegian delegation] have now been allowed to use the recorded vocal tracks, [...]. But [they] have also practiced a plan B with the backing vocalists, if there are big protests from others in Kiev.\" Both JOWST and Aleksander Walmann think that had \"Grab the Moment\" been in the semi-final of the 2018 contest following an abolition of the rule, they would have had an advantage. NRK stated on 2 May that JOWST are aiming to perform the song acoustically as a back-up, bringing with them two additional backing vocalists who will perform the pre-recorded vocals live using a filter applied by the sound engineering team so as not to compromise on sound quality.\n\nNorwegian jury member Per Sundnes made comments on NRK preview show \"Adresse Kiev\" on 17 April 2017 against Irish representative Brendan Murray, saying: \"It's been a long time since they've gotten up and I do not think they'll do it again. They try the same formula year after year.\" The comments were not welcomed by the Irish delegation, who subsequently reported the matter to the EBU.\n\nThe Irish Independent reported on 8 May that Sundnes had been replaced due to an alleged breach in jury rules. Commenting on the decision, the Head of Delegation for Ireland, Michael Kealy, said: \"I'm glad that the European Broadcasting Union have reacted swiftly to this situation and that all jury members are impartial. It's only fair that each song in the Eurovision Song Contest is judged on its individual merits on the night.\" Sundnes was subsequently replaced by Erland Bakke.\n\nSundnes stated in an interview with Verdens Gang on 9 May: \"I do not know anything about the jury stuff, just that I'm not [in it]. It was not really surprising. The same thing happened in Sweden last year with the Swedish professional jury.\"\n\nNRK admits that they made a mistake by letting Sundnes sit in both the professional jury and the judging panel of \"Adresse Kiev\". However, when they were informed by the EBU that this was against the rules, they rectified the situation quickly. Project manager for Melodi Grand Prix, Stig Karlsen, stated: \"We have received some concerns from several teams that Per has been in the jury, while at the same time he has been meaningful in the program. Therefore, we took a new assessment.\".\n\nOn 11 May 2017, during the transmission of the second semi-final, the microphone of the Estonian representative seemed to have malfunctioned as singer Laura Põldvere could not be heard for approximately two seconds by viewers at home. It was later revealed that the Estonian delegation considered appealing to the EBU to allow Laura and Koit Toome to perform their entry \"Verona\" again as a result of the error, but later decided against it. Mart Normet, the Head of Delegation for Estonia, explained \"If there has been such a powerful performance for three minutes and given an absolute maximum, then this energy again does not come back when you go on stage again\". The EBU responded to the situation, reportedly describing the error as purely technical, as the microphone was supposed to automatically come on. Instead, a sound technician was forced to respond by manually switching on the microphone via the sound desk. The country ultimately failed to reach the grand final, with Põldvere expressing her annoyance, however stating \"I do not think it’s so tremendously influenced when a few words remain unheard\".\n\nPortugal's representative, Salvador Sobral drew attention to the European migrant crisis by turning up to the first semi-final winners' press conference in an \"S.O.S. Refugees\" shirt. \"If I'm here and I have European exposure, the least thing I can do is a humanitarian message\", Sobral said. \"People come to Europe in plastic boats and are being asked to show their birth certificates in order to enter a country. These people are not immigrants, they're refugees running from death. Make no mistake. There is so much bureaucratic stuff happening in the refugee camps in Greece, Turkey and Italy and we should help create legal and safe pathways from these countries to their destiny countries\", he added, earning a round of applause. Later on, EBU ordered a ban so that he could not wear it for the remainder of the contest. The EBU explained that Sobral's jumper was used as a means of \"political message,\" which violates the rules of the contest. However, Sobral argued in his winning press conference that it was not political, but a message of humanitarianism.\n\nA performance by Jamala during the voting interval of the final was disrupted by a man draped in an Australian flag who invaded the stage and briefly mooned the audience before being removed by security. He was later identified as Ukrainian prankster Vitalii Sediuk. Following the incident the EBU released a statement reading: \"A person took to the stage at the beginning of Jamala's performance of I Believe in U at tonight's Eurovision Song Contest in Kyiv. He was quickly removed from the stage by security and out of the arena. He is currently being held and questioned by the police at the venue police office.\" The last time an unauthorised person gained access to the stage was in 2010 when the Spanish performance was disrupted by Jimmy Jump.\n\nAfter getting his trophy, Salvador Sobral began a speech talking the quality of music and stated \"We live in a world of disposable music – fast-food music without any content,\" and \"I think this could be a victory for music that actually means something. Music is not fireworks. Music is feeling\", prompting angry reactions from across Europe, including Swedish contestant, Robin Bengtsson.\n\nThe Marcel Bezençon Awards, the OGAE voting poll and the Barbara Dex Awards are awards that will be contested by the entries competing at the Eurovision Song Contest 2017, in addition to the main winner's trophy.\n\nThe Marcel Bezençon Awards were first handed out during the Eurovision Song Contest 2002 in Tallinn, Estonia, honouring the best competing songs in the final. Founded by Christer Björkman (Sweden's representative in the Eurovision Song Contest 1992 and the current Head of Delegation for Sweden) and Richard Herrey (a member of the Herreys and the Eurovision Song Contest 1984 winner from Sweden), the awards are named after the creator of the annual competition, Marcel Bezençon. The awards are divided into three categories: Press Award, Artistic Award, and Composer Award. The winners were revealed shortly before the final on 13 May.\n\nOrganisation Générale des Amateurs de l'Eurovision (more commonly known as OGAE) is an international organisation that was founded in 1984 in Savonlinna, Finland by Jari-Pekka Koikkalainen. The organisation consists of a network of over 40 Eurovision Song Contest fan clubs across Europe and beyond, and is a non-governmental, non-political, and non-profit company. In what has become an annual tradition for the OGAE fan clubs, a voting poll will run prior to the main Eurovision Song Contest allowing members from over 40 clubs to vote for their favourite songs of the contest. The OGAE Poll 2017 ran from 1 to 30 April 2017, and published daily by the official OGAE International website. Italy won the poll receiving a total of four-hundred and ninety-seven points, from forty-four OGAE member clubs.\n\nThe Barbara Dex Award is a fan award originally awarded by House of Eurovision from 1997 to 2016, and since 2017 by songfestival.be. This is a humorous award given to the worst dressed artist each year in the contest, and was named after the Belgian artist, Barbara Dex, who came last in the , in which she wore her own self designed dress. This was the first year that songfestival.be awarded the Barbara Dex Award.\n\nEurovision Song Contest: Kyiv 2017 is the official compilation album of the contest, put together by the European Broadcasting Union and was released by Universal Music Group digitally on 21 April and physically on 28 April 2017. The album features all 42 participating entries, including the semi-finalists that failed to qualify for the final, and the Russian entry which withdrew from the contest on 13 April 2017. This is the second consecutive year that the official album featured a song which had withdrawn before the contest. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4314005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4314005", "title": "Evropesma", "text": "Evropesma\n\nEvropesma (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Европесма\"; Serbia's version of the name) or Europjesma (\"Еуропјесма\"; Montenegro's version of the name) was a pop song contest in Serbia and Montenegro which ran from 2004 to 2006. The winning song represented the country in the Eurovision Song Contest. It was organized by the Serbia and Montenegro union of broadcasters UJRT (consisting of RTS and RTCG).\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, Beovizija and Montevizija served as Serbia's and Montenegro's semi-finals for Evrop(j)esma (respectively). After the dissolution of the state union between Serbia and Montenegro, the semifinal contests took over the role of this festival.\n\nRTCG argued that fairly anonymous representatives from Montenegro have little chance against a number of big music stars that generally take part on behalf of RTS, and who are usually famous in Montenegro itself. RTCG failed to engage any of the big Montenegro stars that could actually gain televotes to take part in Montevizija. Because of this, RTCG demanded that televoting should only be a part of the decision on who is going to win the competition. As a result, there are four judges appointed by RTCG, four by RTS and televoting was the ninth jury member. Points are allocated as follows: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 or 12 (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 in 2004).\n\n\nThe first \"Evrop(j)esma\", held February 21, 2004, in Belgrade, Serbia, featured 24 performers, 19 from Serbia and only 5 from Montenegro. Four of the songs that represented RTS were selected in Beovizija 2004, which was in part a semifinal for Evrop(j)esma. The representatives for RTCG were selected internally, and the others were selected by UJRT. Željko Joksimović won the 2004 Evropesma with \"Lane moje\", going on to reach second place in the Eurovision Song Contest 2004 in Istanbul, Turkey. The members of the Serbian jury didn't give a single point to the songs that represented Montenegro and member of Montenegrin jury didn't give points to winner and the runner up of Beovizija, which caused some controversy.\n\n\"Europjesma 2005\" was held on March 4, 2005, in Podgorica, Montenegro. Even before the contest started there were some controversies. RTCG said that RTS was favoring their entrants Ogi Radivojević and Jelena Tomašević, runner up and winner, respectively, of Beovizija 2005. Željko Joksimović, author of the song \"Jutro\" performed by Jelena Tomašević, even arranged a winning party for Jelena, before the show. RTCG judges voted by awarding few points to any of the Serbian performers, while giving the maximum points the band No Name (who also won the televote).\n\nBefore allowing \"Zauvijek moja\" to be confirmed as Serbia and Montenegro's entry, the EBU launched an investigation into a number of formal complaints, which also related to hotly disputed allegations of plagiarism. However, after prolonged deliberations, the song was given the green light.\n\nThere were rumors that the televote, which only lasted for 10 minutes, was free of charge in Montenegro and not in Serbia, but it was proven false.\n\nIn the table above, shaded columns correspond to jurors from Montenegro and italicized rows correspond to songs from Serbia.\n\n\"2006 Evropesma\", held in Belgrade, Serbia, on March 11, 2006, saw the same voting pattern from the judges from both republics: this year's favorites, once again winners and the runner up of Beovizija 2006, Flamingosi (Serbian-Montenegrin duo) feat. Louis and Ana Nikolić, respectively, received no points from the RTCG judges. The judges appointed by RTS in turn awarded eight points to No Name and four points to Stevan Faddy, enough for No Name to score another win. The Beovizija favorites Flamingosi finished second. The televote placed Beovizija favorites first and second and No Name third.\n\nThe stir began during the voting, as the audience started leaving the event in the midst of it, after realizing that their favourites were not going to win. The remaining audience booed No Name off the stage, and threw objects (such as bottles) at the stage, as they came out to accept the award and perform their song again, in the Eurovision Song Contest tradition. The audience then wooed Flamingosi on stage and they performed their song with the other finalists from Beovizija present on stage.\n\nAs a result, the Executive Board of UJRT did not accept the victory of No Name, stating that voting violated the merits of the competition, albeit not being found irregular. Source: UJRT statement\n\nThe Director General of the RTS and the head of UJRT, Aleksandar Tijanić, wrote a letter to his counterpart at the RTCG, Radovan Miljanić, suggesting that a new contest be held, featuring five songs from both semi-finals that got the most points. The winner would be selected solely through televoting. At the same time, RTCG requested from the European Broadcasting Union that they intervene in accepting the voting results from the controversial contest. The European Broadcasting Union responded on March 18, 2006, two days before the deadline for the submission of the national entry to the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest, by suggesting that the broadcasters find a solution on their own. This was to no avail, and finally, on March 20, 2006, Serbia and Montenegro officially withdrew from the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest. As the UJRT broadcast the semifinal and final, the viewers were able to vote, but only those in Serbia.\n\nAs the withdrawal left an empty slot in the final, Croatia and their representative Severina took it. The 2005 Eurovision Song Contest Croatian representative Boris Novković won 11th place, one place below the cutoff for the direct entry into the final.\n\nIn this table, red color denotes songs and jurors from Montenegro, blue those from Serbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46253221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46253221", "title": "Fahrettin Güneş", "text": "Fahrettin Güneş\n\nFahrettin Güneş (born 1966) is a German singer, who is most notable for competing in the Türkvizyon Song Contest 2014 with the song \"Sevdiğim\".\n\nIn 1974 he moved to Germany. In 1990 at the age of 23 he opened his own studio in Düsseldorf, Germany, he has gone on to produce two albums from that studio, \"Yandım, Tövbe ettim Sevmeye\" (1994) and \"Terekeme\" (2006). He currently performs at a number of events each year involving Turkic music.\n\nIn 2014 Fahrettin Güneş was selected to represent Germany on their debut in the Türkvizyon Song Contest. Fahrettin represented Germany in Kazan, Tatarstan with the song \"Sevdiğim\", he was joined on stage by NART a Cologne based dance group. He finished 21st in the semi final and did not qualify for the final.\n\n"}
{"id": "25773260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25773260", "title": "Freaknik: The Musical", "text": "Freaknik: The Musical\n\nFreaknik: The Musical is an American musical television special produced by T-Pain. It features the voice of T-Pain as the Ghost of Freaknik, as well as the voices of entertainers such as Lil Wayne, Young Cash, Snoop Dogg, Sophia Fresh, and Rick Ross, and comedians such as Andy Samberg and Charlie Murphy who provide additional voices. It was scheduled to air on Cartoon Network's late night programming block Adult Swim sometime in 2009, but after several push-backs, it premiered on March 7, 2010. The musical is based on the actual music festival of the same name that used to take place in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nA soundtrack was released by Jive and Nappy Boy on April 20, 2010. The 50-minute uncut version of \"Freaknik: The Musical\" has been released on DVD and other forms of home media.\n\nThe movie starts at a party that a group of young adults (Christopher \"Kid\" Reid and Affion Crockett) claims is the best party they have ever attended. An elderly man (Lil Jon) joins the party and explains the history of Freaknik. He tells them that Freaknik threw the biggest party of all time, until it was broken up by the police in 1998; he claims the police \"killed\" Freaknik. Kid n' Play tried to convince that Freaknik is an urban legend like Candyman, but as Play looks in the mirror, they were eaten by a swarm of wasps. The group is then led by the old man in summoning Freaknik, who appears as the Ghost of Freaknik Past (T-Pain).\n\nThe scene changes to a radio announcer named Mr. Thanksgiving (DJ Drama), who is interviewing Freaknik. Mr. Thanksgiving and Freaknik explain that a rapping contest will be held, the victory of which will get \"a lifetime supply of money, clothes, and hoes\". The scene changes once more to the bedroom of Virgil (Young Cash), Big Uzi (Rick Ross), and Light Skin (CeeLo Green), collectively known as the Sweet Tea Mobsters, a group of young adult rappers from Sweet Tea, Florida, who hope to achieve fame. The group decides to drive to Atlanta to participate in the aforementioned contest, along with their weed-smoking (and supplying) friend Doela Man (DJ Pooh).\n\nDuring their journey, Light Skin tells of a secret society of African Americans called the Boule, fraternity parlance for \"a council of noblemen\", that seeks to guide the course of black culture. The members of this organization are parodies of Oprah Winfrey, Al Sharpton (Charlie Murphy), Bill Cosby (Kel Mitchell), Russell Simmons (Affion Crockett), O. J. Simpson, and Jesse Jackson. They wear medallions inscribed \"10%\", an allusion to the W. E. B. Du Bois essay The Talented Tenth, which says that a class of exceptional members of the black race will rise to lead it.\n\nThe Sweet Tea Mobsters make a number of pit stops, including a detour at a college fraternity party where they meet two alcoholic fraternity members (Bill Hader and Andy Samberg). While Virgil is fueling the gas tank, A car, inhabited by four sexy-looking women (Sophia Fresh) named Leacosia (Crystal), Toprameneesha (Skye), Obamaniqua (Cole Rose), and Suzie (Crystal), arrives. He tried to refuse, but the girls beg in song, besides Leacosia giving Virgil a kiss in the form of a gun. He accepts.\n\nMeanwhile, Freaknik meets Rev. Sharpton, who tried to force him to work for the Boule. The plan fails as Freaknik says that he will \"never, ever turn his back on his own people\", so he escorts Sharpton out via trapdoor.\n\nAt the party, the group meets the Fruit Bowl Boys (Kel Mitchell, Affion Crockett, and Denzel Whitaker), who later become the group’s biggest competition and are from the mostly white suburbs of Sweet Tea, Florida (although they resemble the Sweet Tea Mobsters). On their long, winding road trip, the Sweet Tea Mob gets lost in New Orleans and are confronted by a gangster (Snoop Dogg) who makes them visit his boss, Trap Jesus (Lil Wayne). Upon meeting Trap Jesus, the group loses hope, thinking it is the end, but instead he inspires them to compete and gives them one of his many Lamborghinis to use to get to Atlanta. However, they crash the Lamborghini when Big Uzi becomes enraged after hearing the Fruit Bowl Boys talking about his jail experience. The group gives up except Virgil, who believes that winning the contest is their destiny. The rest of the group still doesn't believe him until they are given a ride in an airplane by the \"Flying Malcolms.\"\n\nMeanwhile, the Freaknik character is elected the \"ghost mayor of Atlanta\" and dubs the city \"Freaknation.\" Soon after, President Barack Obama hands the presidency over to the ghost of Freaknik, a move that greatly angers Oprah, which wants to see Freaknik destroyed. She devises a plan to send a giant robotic monster called the \"Perminator\" (a robotic version of Al Sharpton, rebuilt from Sharpton's corpse after he got hit by lightning while blowing out his hair) to Atlanta to destroy Freaknik. Meanwhile, at the party, the Fruit Bowl Boys begin singing \"Shank Ya in the Shower.\" The Sweet Tea Mobsters arrive at Atlanta at the same time as the Perminator begins its attack; it kills the Fruit Bowl Boys almost immediately. He seems to have Freaknik down for the count, but mass love from the crowd empowers Freaknik as the Mob performs, giving him the ability to grow to a monstrous size. Using the love of his fans, Freaknik is able to destroy the Perminator.\n\nAfter the fight, Freaknik declares the Sweet Tea Mobsters the winners of the contest, but Virgil refuses the prize and tears the check in half. He tells Freaknik that he doesn't need it as long as Freaknik comes back every year, but before he can finish speaking, a golden lion statue-shaped ship comes right in, inhabited by the members of the Boule. But as Freaknik is about to disqualify them, a dog-shaped spacecraft called the \"Mothership Connection\" arrives, killing the Boule and their ship (Note: This scene can only be seen on the uncut version of the special). It is inhabited by three brightly colored aliens who are actually George Clinton, Bootsy Collins, and Gene \"King Poo Poo Man\" Anderson. They say they have come to take Freaknik because \"there are other galaxies that need his powers of positivity\", saying that maybe someday he will return and they can \"funk it up\" once again. Freaknik gives Virgil his gold chain and says that Atlanta will always be his home. Suzie approaches Freaknik, telling him her baby (which looks like Freaknik) needs a father. Freaknik then rushes on board the ship with Clinton, Collins, and Anderson. Mr. Thanksgiving, the radio DJ from the beginning of the show, then speaks, saying how crazy that was and they'll see us next time; Freaknik is seen dancing on the Mothership as it leaves Earth. And after the end credits, we see Sweet Tea taping the check back together.\n\nAdditional voices are provided by: Gerald \"Slink\" Johnson, Heather Lawless, Jason Van Veen, and Jason Walden.\n\n\"Freaknik: The Musical\" originally evolved from a failed pilot entitled \"That Crook'd 'Sipp\" which was created by Mike Weiss, Jacob Escobedo, and Nick Weidenfeld. The pilot premiered on television on May 13, 2007. Originally, the pilot was to receive six additional episodes scheduled to air sometime after 2007, but the episodes never surfaced and the show's status remained up in the air until mid-2009 when the series was scrapped for good in order to create this special. Characters including Big Uzi, Suzy and Virgil all appeared in \"That Crook'd Sipp\".\n\nIn its original American broadcast on March 7, 2010, \"Freaknik: The Musical\" was watched by 797,000 viewers 18-34, making it the second most watched Adult Swim program of that night, behind a rerun of \"Family Guy\".\n\nIGN gave this episode a 6.1 out of 10, which is considered \"Passable\", and received comments both positive and negative.\n\nOn March 8, 2010, the animated special was released for purchase on the iTunes Store. The uncut 49-minute-long version of \"Freaknik: The Musical\" was released on one-disc DVD set in the United States on October 26, 2010, from Warner Home Video and included the soundtrack.\n\nIt was announced by T-Pain that a soundtrack would be released through Jive Records, Konvict Muzik and Nappy Boy on April 20, 2010. The track \"Ghetto Commandments\", the credits outro song, was released on iTunes as a single on March 23 and it features rappers Snoop Dogg & Mack Maine who also play in the movie; it was released the same day as the release of T-Pain's promo single for his album \"rEVOLVEr\" \"Reverse Cowgirl\". The Rick Ross song \"Grab Yo Beltloop\" didn't make the final cut for the album.\n\n"}
{"id": "7957056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7957056", "title": "Hugh Falkus", "text": "Hugh Falkus\n\nHugh Falkus (15 May 1917 – 30 March 1996) was a British writer, filmmaker and presenter, World War II pilot and angler. In an extremely varied career, he is perhaps best known for his seminal books on angling, particularly salmon and sea trout fishing; however, he was also a noted filmmaker and broadcaster for the BBC.\n\nHugh Edward Lance Falkus was born to James Falkus, a Surrey bank manager, and his wife Alice Maud. James retired early to a boat, first on the Essex marshes and then in Devon, upon which Hugh was sent to the East Anglian School, in Suffolk. According to his entry in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Hugh caught his first fish when he was four, learned to shoot when he was six, and was an expert helmsman by the age of fifteen. By eighteen he had learned to fly, and at twenty he became a pilot in the RAF.\n\nOn 11 July 1939 he married Doris Marjorie Walter, and they had two sets of twins (three sons and a daughter). The youngest son, Anthony, born in 1952, died in infancy. The older twins, Christopher and Malcolm, born in 1940, had successful careers, Christopher becoming a prominent publisher while Malcolm's career has been in economic history. Falkus' only daughter, Rowena Mary, is a Benedictine nun.\n\nIn June 1940 Falkus' Spitfire was shot down over France and he spent the rest of the war in German prison camps, including Stalag Luft III the Great Escape camp. After the war he left Doris and in 1950 he married Diana Vaughan, the young editor of \"Argosy\" magazine, but on 12 May 1951 Diana was drowned, along with Charles Osborne, Bill Brendon and Sam Lee, in a boating accident off the coast of Achill Island in County Mayo, Ireland, while they were making a film about the local shark hunting industry. Filming near the Daisy Rocks, a huge wave estimated to be 27 feet high capsized and sank the lifeboat being used for the filming. Falkus, a powerful swimmer, took command and ensure other members of the party including his wife were equipped with flotation devices; roping them together into a raft, and then set out for help. He collapsed unconscious having narrowly survived after swimming over a mile to the shore, before being able to tell his rescuers the location of the accident and its survivors. As efforts were made to revive him, rescue parties went to the wrong location, Achill Head, based on guesswork. Falkus immediately upon recovering consciousness told the correct location but by then it was too late and the others had died from cold. His wife's remains and one other person's were recovered. Docunentary \"Shark Island\" by David Mullins RTE Documentaries September 2017\n\nIn 1952 Falkus married Lady Margaret Vane-Tempest-Stewart, second daughter of the 7th Marquess of Londonderry, but the marriage was short-lived. By 1955 Falkus had settled in Eskdale, Cumberland, which he had come to know and love through his friendship with Bill Fowler, a bomber pilot from Long Yocking, Eskdale, who he had met in a prisoner of war camp. In 1958 Falkus married Kathleen Armstrong, daughter of a local farming family. He lived with her at Cragg Cottage, Eskdale, for most of the rest of his life, writing about fishing and natural history and making television films on related subjects. He wrote, produced and presented a series of \"The World About Us\" films for the BBC, and with the Nobel Prize-winning zoologist Professor Niko Tinbergen he made a film about gull behaviour called \"Signals for Survival\" which won the Italia prize in 1969, and first prize for the BBC at the 1969 Montreux Film Festival. He was reportedly and according to his biographer, Chris Newton, a sexual predator, gaining the punning nickname \"Huge Phallus\" at the BBC. He was still having affairs in his late sixties, upsetting his friends by deserting Kathleen, his wife of 25 years for a woman named Romille.\n\nFalkus' masterwork \"Sea Trout Fishing, A Practical Guide\" (HF & G Witherby 1962, enlarged edition 1975) became a best-seller and has never been out of print; it \"established his reputation as the father of modern sea-trout fishing\" according to his biographer, Chris Newton. It was followed in 1984 by \"Salmon Fishing, a Practical Guide\", also a best-seller which remains in print.\n\nFalkus was a controversial and outspoken figure, insisting on being right and bullying people.\n\nHe was awarded the Royal Geographical Society's Cherry Kearton Medal and Award in 1982.\nHugh Falkus died of cancer and bronchopneumonia at Cragg Cottage on 30 March 1996. His son Christopher had predeceased him, dying in 1995 of heart disease.\n\nFalkus's works include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41931267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41931267", "title": "Ibn Fuladh", "text": "Ibn Fuladh\n\nIbn Fuladh, also known as Ibn Puladh, was a Daylamite military officer who is known for revolting against his Buyid overlords. He was the son of Fuladh ibn Manadhar, a prominent Buyid officer who was son of Manadhar, an Justanid king.\n\nIbn Fuladh, in order to gain Qazvin as his fief, revolted against the Buyid ruler Majd al-Dawla in 1016. Majd al-Dawla, however, refused to make him governor of Qazvin, which made Ibn Fuladh threaten him around the countryside of his capital in Ray. Majd al-Dawla then requested the aid of his vassal, the Bavandid ruler Abu Ja'far Muhammad, who managed to defeat Ibn Fuladh and repel him from Ray. Ibn Fuladh then requested aid from the Ziyarid ruler Manuchihr, who was a rival of the Buyids. Ibn Fuladh agreed to become Manuchihr's vassal in return for his aid. The following year, a combined army of Ibn Fuladh and Manuchihr besieged Ray, which forced Majd al-Dawla to make Fuladh the governor of Isfahan. However, the Kakuyid ruler Muhammad ibn Rustam Dushmanziyar, who was the original ruler of Isfahan, defeated Ibn Fuladh, and possibly killing him during the battle.\n\n"}
{"id": "19800325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19800325", "title": "Joe the Plumber", "text": "Joe the Plumber\n\nSamuel Joseph Wurzelbacher (; born December 3, 1973), known as Joe the Plumber, is an American conservative activist and commentator. He gained national attention during the 2008 U.S. presidential election when, during a videotaped campaign stop in Ohio by then Democratic nominee Senator Barack Obama, Wurzelbacher asked Obama about his small business tax policy. Obama's response included the statement, \"when you spread the wealth around, it's good for everybody.\" Obama's response was seized upon by conservative media, and by Obama's rival, Republican nominee Senator John McCain, as an indication that Obama was interested in the redistribution of wealth and had a socialist view of the economy. Wurzelbacher is a member of the Republican Party.\n\nSince he expressed to then-Senator Obama that he was interested in purchasing a small plumbing business, Wurzelbacher was given the moniker \"Joe the Plumber\" by the McCain–Palin campaign. The campaign brought him in to make several appearances in campaign events in Ohio and McCain often referenced \"Joe the Plumber\" in campaign speeches and in the final presidential debate, as a metaphor for middle-class Americans.\n\nWurzelbacher became a prominent conservative activist, commentator, author and motivational speaker. In 2012, he ran on the Republican ticket to represent Ohio's 9th congressional district in the House of Representatives, losing to Democratic incumbent Marcy Kaptur.\n\nWurzelbacher was born in Toledo, Ohio, to Kay and Frank Wurzelbacher. The family moved to Florida when he was young, then returned to Toledo when he was in the middle of high school. After high school, Wurzelbacher enlisted in the United States Air Force, and was stationed in Alaska and North Dakota. Wurzelbacher left the Air Force in 1996 and worked as a plumber's assistant, but then switched careers and started working for the telecommunications company Global Crossing. He also married, had a son, and then divorced during this time.\n\nOn October 12, 2008, during a campaign break before the final presidential debate at Hofstra University, Obama visited a working class Toledo, Ohio neighborhood. Wurzelbacher watched as the candidate engaged numerous residents in conversation. He made his way through the crowd to ask Obama about his tax plan. Wurzelbacher suggested that Obama's tax plan would be at odds with \"the American dream.\" Wurzelbacher said, \"I'm getting ready to buy a company that makes 250 to 280 thousand dollars a year. Your new tax plan's going to tax me more, isn't it?\"\n\nObama responded with an explanation of how his tax plan would affect a small business in this bracket. Obama said, \"If you're a small business, which you would qualify, first of all, you would get a 50 percent tax credit so you'd get a cut in taxes for your health care costs. So you would actually get a tax cut on that part. If your revenue is above 250, then from 250 down, your taxes are going to stay the same. It is true that, say for 250 up — from 250 to 300 or so, so for that additional amount, you'd go from 36 to 39 percent, which is what it was under Bill Clinton.\"\n\nObama also said, \"It's not that I want to punish your success. I just want to make sure that everybody who is behind you, that they've got a chance at success, too... My attitude is that if the economy's good for folks from the bottom up, it's gonna be good for everybody. If you've got a plumbing business, you're gonna be better off [...] if you've got a whole bunch of customers who can afford to hire you, and right now everybody's so pinched that business is bad for everybody and I think when you spread the wealth around, it's good for everybody.\"\n\nDuring the third and final Presidential debate on October 15, 2008, at Hofstra University, many references were made to \"Joe the Plumber.\" In the debate, McCain repeatedly brought up \"Joe the Plumber\" and Obama and McCain then made statements aimed directly at Wurzelbacher. As a result, subsequent media attention was directed at Wurzelbacher.\n\nAfter the debate, Wurzelbacher did not declare his vote for either candidate. He expressed concern that Obama's plans were \"one step closer to socialism.\" Obama's running mate Joe Biden argued that 98% of small businesses take in less than $250,000 a year in income and thus wouldn't be subject to higher taxes under Obama's plan. McCain stated that Wurzelbacher would see higher taxes under Obama's plan.\n\nWurzelbacher spoke to Katie Couric of \"CBS Evening News\" on October 15, shortly after the conclusion of the final debate. Asked whether Obama's proposed $250,000 tax threshold would affect him, Wurzelbacher replied: \"Not right now at presently, but (...) he's going to do that now for people who make $250,000 a year. When's he going to decide that $100,000 is too much? (...) You're on a slippery slope here. You vote on somebody who decides that $250,000 and you're rich? And $100,000 and you're rich? (...) Where does it end?\" He also said: \"I asked the question but I still got a tap dance ...almost as good as Sammy Davis, Jr.\"\n\nWurzelbacher held a press conference at his home on the morning of October 16, following the debates, where he refused to express support for either candidate. \"I'm not telling anybody anything\" about which candidate he prefers, he said, adding, \"It's a private booth. I want the American people to vote for who they want to vote for.\"\n\nOn October 16, Wurzelbacher appeared on \"Your World with Neil Cavuto\" on Fox News. Neil Cavuto asked if Wurzelbacher was persuaded by Obama's plan. Wurzelbacher said that he was not and that he was more frightened upon hearing it. Wurzelbacher suggested that Obama's plan was socialist in nature.\n\nThat same day, Wurzelbacher also appeared on \"Good Morning America\". Diane Sawyer asked him if he was taking home $250,000 now, Wurzelbacher said with a laugh \"No, not even close.\" Sawyer asked Wurzelbacher, \"And the McCain camp, some people have said did they contact you and tell you that you were going to be a major part of this, and had they contacted you before that encounter with Senator Obama?\" Wurzelbacher answered, \"Oh no, no, no one's contacted me as far as if I was going to be on the debate or as far as my name being used. No. I have been contacted by them and asked to show up at a rally. But, other than that, no. I just happened to be here and Barack Obama happened to show up.\"\n\nOn November 2, Wurzelbacher appeared again on \"Your World with Neil Cavuto\", where he expressed concern that Barack Obama's tax plans would go down \"a slippery slope\" and eventually raise his taxes. Wurzelbacher also questioned Obama's patriotism saying \"there's too many questions with Barack Obama, and his loyalty to our country.\"\n\nOn October 18, McCain told a campaign rally in Melbourne, Florida that he had phoned Wurzelbacher for the first time on October 17. McCain said, \"He's a great guy, proud of his grandfather who served in the US Marine Corps. We're going to fight for Joe, my friends, we are going to fight for him. The question Joe asked about our economy is important, because Senator Obama's plan would raise taxes on small businesses that employ 16 million Americans. Senator Obama's plan will kill those jobs at just the time when we need to be creating more jobs. My plan will create jobs, and that's what America needs.\"\n\nThe McCain-Palin campaign's senior strategist Steve Schmidt said that John McCain's strategy in the final weeks of the presidential campaign was based primarily on his differences with Obama on economic issues, which they would continue to highlight through the story of Joe the Plumber.\n\nAfter the final presidential debate, McCain and his running mate Sarah Palin frequently repeated the charge in campaign speeches that \"Joe the Plumber\" would pay higher taxes under Obama and Biden's plan, although according to tax analysts neither Wurzelbacher nor the company he works for would actually be subject to higher taxes under Obama's tax plan. Obama's \"spread the wealth around\" quote was later used by the McCain campaign, comparing the Democratic policies to socialism. McCain said, \"[Obama] wants government to take Joe's money and give it to somebody else.\" Obama said in a campaign rally on October 24 that McCain was \"not fighting for Joe the Plumber. He's fighting for Joe the Hedge Fund Manager... He likes to talk about Joe the Plumber but he's in cahoots with Joe the CEO.\" Obama then promoted a plan for middle-class tax cuts and \"asked for a show of hands at the rally in the Richmond Coliseum from those making less than $250,000. Nearly all of the 13,000 people raised their hands.\"\n\nAides to the McCain-Palin campaign said on October 24 that they would \"spend heavily\" on a new TV advertisement invoking Wurzelbacher's nickname. The ad would feature \"several different people looking into the camera and saying, 'I'm Joe the Plumber.' One man accuses Obama of wanting to use the man's 'sweat to pay for his trillion dollars in new spending. McCain also ran several other commercials with this theme.\n\nOn October 30, Wurzelbacher made appearances with John McCain during Ohio campaign stops in Sandusky, Elyria, and Mentor. In Sandusky, McCain accused the Obama campaign of attacking Wurzelbacher, and in Mentor, Wurzelbacher was allowed to address the crowd, saying, \"Once you find out the facts, they become quite obvious,\" while pointing at McCain.\n\nEarlier in the day, at a rally in Defiance, Ohio, McCain thought that Wurzelbacher was supposed to be in the crowd and called for him to stand up. When it became clear that Joe wasn't in attendance, McCain ended the silence by telling the whole crowd instead to stand up, stating, \"You're all Joe the Plumber.\"\n\nIn 2008, Wurzelbacher signed with a publicity management agent regarding media relationships, including \"a possible record deal with a major label, personal appearances and corporate sponsorships.\"\n\nIn November 2008, Wurzelbacher was hired for a series of commercials reminding people to convert analog television to digital. Wurzelbacher was hired to help consumers understand the DTV transition in the United States through a series of videos designed to explain the changeover.\n\nIn November 2008, Wurzelbacher began promoting his book \"Joe the Plumber: Fighting for the American Dream\". Co-written with novelist Thomas Tabback and published by PearlGate Publishing of Austin, Texas, the book addresses Wurzelbacher's ideas concerning American values. In particular, Wurzelbacher criticizes John McCain and states that he did not want him as the Republican presidential nominee. Wurzelbacher criticized McCain as a candidate, saying that the election was \"the lesser of two evils.\" On December 10, 2008, it was reported that Wurzelbacher also criticized McCain for voting for the $700 billion Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, also known as the bank bailout.\nOn the issue of taxation, he does not consider himself to be a supporter of either party.\n\nIn January 2009, Wurzelbacher became a war correspondent for PJ Media. His first assignment involved visiting Israel for ten days during the Gaza War, with his reporting focusing on the Israeli experience of the conflict.\n\nIn May 2009, \"Time\" magazine reported that Wurzelbacher was quitting the Republican Party.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, Wurzelbacher spoke at an event called \"Pints and Politics\" in Wausau, Wisconsin. During his speech, Wurzelbacher questioned why Chris Dodd hadn't been \"strung up\" yet. He stated that the Founding Fathers \"knew socialism doesn't work. They knew communism doesn't work.\"\n\nOn February 13, 2010, Wurzelbacher attended a political event for Pennsylvania gubernatorial candidate Sam Rohrer. Speaking to a reporter afterwards, Wurzelbacher said that \"McCain was trying to use [him]\", and accused McCain of having \"really screwed [his] life up\".\n\nIn Wisconsin, on February 2011, he spoke at a counter-demonstration during protests against Governor Scott Walker's attempts to abolish collective bargaining rights of some public employees. In 2012, Wurzelbacher started the news site \"Joe For America\".\n\nIn February 2014, Wurzelbacher took a job at a Jeep plant which required him to be a member of the United Auto Workers. He complained that his colleagues have called him a \"Tea-bagger\". The \"Washington Post\", citing Sean McAlinden, who has studied the auto-bailout as the Chief Economist for the non-profit Center for Automotive Research, commented that an \"irony\" is \"that Joe the Plumber may not have gotten this auto job if it weren't for the hated bailout of the auto industry\" which was \"first championed by Bush\" but attacked by conservatives when implemented by Obama. McAliden is quoted saying \"He wouldn't have gotten a job in Toledo if Chrysler hadn't been bailed out..Chrysler would have shut down immediately. No production; no jobs; no pension payments; no nothing.\" For his part, Joe indicated he has no problem with unions per se, stating \"Private unions, such as the UAW, is a choice between employees and employers. If that is what they want, then who am I to say you can't have it?\".\n\nWurzelbacher voted for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election.\n\nAfter his meeting with Barack Obama, a campaign to draft Wurzelbacher to run for the United States House of Representatives in the 2010 election started with the website joewurzelbacher2010.com. The \"Washington Times\" and the \"Boston Herald\" reported that the campaign's goal was to draft Wurzelbacher to run against Rep. Marcy Kaptur of , although the possibility also existed for Kaptur to choose to run for the Senate seat being vacated by George Voinovich. The website was created by Trevor Lair (then-chairman of the Massachusetts College Republicans), Derek Khanna, and the Massachusetts Alliance of College Republicans. It encouraged visitors to sign an online petition that supported Wurzelbacher's run for office. Laura Ingraham asked Wurzelbacher, on October 24, 2008, if he would run against Kaptur. Wurzelbacher responded that he had considered the run and would be \"up for it\".\n\nOn October 7, 2011, Wurzelbacher filed paperwork with the Federal Election Commission to challenge Democratic Representative Marcy Kaptur in the 2012 race for Ohio's 9th congressional seat.\n\nIn the March 6, 2012 primary, Wurzelbacher gained the nomination as the Republican candidate in the race, defeating challenger Steven Kraus. He ran in the November 2012 general election against Kaptur, who had won the Democratic primary against Dennis Kucinich after the two incumbents' respective Congressional districts were collapsed into one as a result of post-2010 Census redistricting by the state's Republican-controlled legislature. He lost the election, with Kaptur, who had been the heavy favorite, receiving over 70% of the vote.\n\nRegarding his statement to Barack Obama about intending to buy the plumbing firm that employed him, Wurzelbacher later said that the idea of buying the company was discussed during his job interview six years prior. Court records show that Wurzelbacher made $40,000 in 2006.\n\nAs part of the background on McCain's use of \"Joe the Plumber\" during the 2008 campaign, several media outlets researched his professional plumbing credentials. One \"Toledo Blade\" article stated: \"Mr. Wurzelbacher said he works under Al Newell's license, but according to Ohio building regulations, he must maintain his own license to do plumbing work. He is also not registered to operate as a plumber in Ohio, which means he's not a plumber.\" \"Mr. Joseph [business manager of the local union] said Mr. Wurzelbacher could only legally work in the townships, but not in any municipality in Lucas County or elsewhere in the country.\" Wurzelbacher later stated that he was no longer employed at Newell.\n\nWurzelbacher was not a member of the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters (the national plumbers' union) and never served an apprenticeship.\n\nABC News reported on October 16, 2008, that there was a judgment lien against Wurzelbacher for non-payment of $1,182 in owed Ohio state income taxes dating to January 2007, but \"no action has been taken against him outside of filing the lien.\" Barb Losie, deputy clerk of the Lucas County Court of Common Pleas, said that \"there is a 99 percent chance [Wurzelbacher] doesn't know about the lien, unless he did a credit report or was ready to pay his taxes.\" While on \"Hannity & Colmes\", Wurzelbacher stated that he was unaware of the tax lien prior to it being reported in the press. The taxes were paid on November 6.\n\nPrior to the 2008 election, Vanessa Niekamp, an employee of Ohio's Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS), at the behest of its director, Helen Jones-Kelley, used state computers to search for information on Joe Wurzelbacher. On November 20, 2008, Niekamp reported the violation to the State Inspector General. State and local officials completed an investigation into Jones-Kelley's order, concluding that the searches were improper. On December 17, 2008, Jones-Kelley resigned. In response to the event, Republican Ohio state representative Shannon Jones sponsored House Bill 648, which mandates civil and criminal penalties for improper access of personal information on state databases. On January 6, 2009, Governor Ted Strickland signed the legislation, which became effective after 90 days.\n\nOn March 5, 2009, on behalf of Joe Wurzelbacher, Judicial Watch filed a lawsuit in a U.S. District Court in Columbus charging that Jones-Kelley and fellow ODJFS employees Fred Williams and Doug Thompson improperly searched \"confidential state databases\" in an attempt to retaliate against Wurzelbacher's criticism of then-presidential candidate Barack Obama. The lawsuit claims that \"officials of the State of Ohio violated Mr. Wurzelbacher's constitutional rights,\" and that \"Wurzelbacher suffered emotional distress, harassment, and embarrassment as a result of the search.\" Tom Fitton, the president of Judicial Watch, stated that \"no American should be investigated for simply asking a question of a public official.\" The lawsuit seeks unspecified punitive damages. On August 4, 2010, the U.S District Court in Columbus dismissed the lawsuit on the grounds that the state database search didn't amount to a constitutional violation to the right to privacy. On March 25, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the dismissal.\n\nOn October 14, 2009, the \"Columbus Dispatch\" reported that, \"A former contractor for the Ohio Association of Chiefs of Police has been charged with rummaging through state computers to retrieve confidential information about 'Joe the Plumber.'\" The State Highway Patrol has stated that, \"this individual has also used a law-enforcement computer network on Oct. 16, 2008 to access personal information about Samuel Joseph Wurzelbacher.\"\n\nIn June 2012, Wurzelbacher's election campaign released a video in which he claimed that the implementation of gun control resulted in Europe's Jews being unable to defend themselves during the Holocaust, explaining that \"In 1939, Germany established gun control. From 1939 to 1945, six million Jews and seven million others unable to defend themselves were exterminated.\" In the same video, Wurzelbacher stated that the implementation of gun control by the Ottoman Empire in 1911 resulted in Armenians being unable to defend themselves against the Armenian Genocide.\n\nThe video drew sharp criticism from the National Jewish Democratic Council (NJDC) and Ohio Democratic Party Chairman Chris Redfern.\n\nWurzelbacher subsequently defended the video, stating that \"Different countries around the world have tried to disarm their citizens, and then have tried to exterminate their own now-unarmed citizens. If people are looking to be offended by this video, they are probably serving a political agenda. Unfortunately there are a lot of whiners out there.\" Wurzelbacher's spokesman, Phil Christofanelli, also defended the video, stating that Wurzelbacher was a \"student of history\" who knows that the Founding Fathers \"understood that the 2nd Amendment was always the people's last defense against tyrannical government.\"\n\nIn August 2012, Wurzelbacher drew criticism for a comment he made about illegal immigration. During a campaign rally for Arizona State Senator Lori Klein, Wurzelbacher said, \"For years I've said, you know, put a damn fence on the border, going to Mexico and start shooting.\"\n\nWhen asked about the comment later, he said that he didn't care about being \"politically incorrect.\" Klein defended Wurzelbacher, telling reporters his comments were just a joke.\n\nIn an open letter to the parents of victims who died in the 2014 Isla Vista killings, Wurzelbacher wrote of his right to \"protect my family\"\nstating, \"As harsh as this sounds—your dead kids don't trump my Constitutional rights ... We still have the Right to Bear Arms ... Any feelings you have toward my rights being taken away from me, lose those.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326687", "title": "Legal observer", "text": "Legal observer\n\nLegal observers are individuals, usually representatives of civilian human rights agencies, who attend public demonstrations, protests and other activities where there is a potential for conflict between the public or activists and the police, security guards, or other law enforcement personnel. The purpose of legal observers is to monitor, record, and report on any unlawful or improper behaviour. Legal or human rights observers act as an independent third party within a conflictual civil protest context, observing police behaviour in order to keep police accountable for their actions. Legal observers can write incident reports describing police violence and misbehaviour and compile reports after the event. The use of video and still cameras, incident reports and audio recorders is common.\n\nIt is thought that the concept of using legal observers first emerged during protests in the 1930s in the East End of London, where police agents provocateur were used during protests by the British Union of Fascists (BUF). There were large counter-protests and it was alleged that the police sided with the BUF. Another case of legal observing was that carried out by the Black Panthers in the United States.\n\nLegal observers were used by Liberty (then known as the National Council for Civil Liberties) in Wapping, London, during the mid-1980s. The Wapping demonstration was in response to large protests by labour unions against the industrial relations policies of media magnate Rupert Murdoch.\n\nIn the United States, the National Lawyers Guild (NLG) holds registered trademarks for the words \"legal observer\" alone, as well as the words \"legal observer\" on a green background. The National Lawyers Guild Legal Observer certification program was established in 1968 in New York City in response to protests at Columbia University and citywide antiwar and civil rights demonstrations. That same year, guild students organized for the defense of people swept up in mass arrests at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. The NLG Legal Observer certification program requires legal observers to take a training course and is part of a comprehensive system of legal support designed to enable people to express their political views as fully as possible without unconstitutional disruption or interference by the police and with the fewest possible consequences from the criminal justice system. Legal observers are trained and directed by National Lawyer Guild attorneys. The presence of legal observers may serve as a deterrent to unconstitutional behavior by law enforcement during a demonstration. \n\nNLG worked with the Bureau des Avocats Internationaux, the Institute for Justice & Democracy in Haiti, and the International Association of Democratic Lawyers to debut legal observers in Haiti during May Day protests of 2018.\n\nIn other countries, legal observers are associated with such groups as Liberty (UK), Green and Black Cross (UK), the G8 Legal Collective (Scotland), and others. In Australia in the 1970s, priests acted as legal observers during the large Moratorium Marches against the Vietnam War. In September 2000, Pt'chang Nonviolent Community Safety Group organised a large legal observer team for the S11 protest against the World Economic Forum in Melbourne. In Sydney, the Legal Observers Project, formally based at the Community Law Centre at the University of Technology, Sydney, and renamed Human Rights Monitors, was established in April 2001. This group reformed as Sydney Copwatch in 2009. Human rights organizations such as Amnesty International sometimes dispatch human rights observers who serve similar roles to legal observers.\n\n"}
{"id": "37796369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37796369", "title": "List of near-Equatorial tropical cyclones", "text": "List of near-Equatorial tropical cyclones\n\nThis is a list of all tropical cyclones that have existed between 3°N and 3°S of the equator. Tropical cyclones are relatively rare in this region, particularly outside of the Northwestern Pacific Ocean. This is primarily due to a weak Coriolis effect within the region, and only seventeen known storms have formed since records began.\n\n"}
{"id": "13455665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13455665", "title": "Louisiana Purchase Historic State Park", "text": "Louisiana Purchase Historic State Park\n\nThe Louisiana Purchase Historic State Park commemorates the initial point from which the lands acquired through the Louisiana Purchase (1803) were subsequently surveyed. The protected area encompasses of forested wetlands, a landform which is regionally in decline due to agricultural development practices that include draining such areas. In the center of the park is a marker erected in 1926 on the survey point by the L'Anguille Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. The site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places (1972) and designated as a National Historic Landmark (1993).\n\nThe historic state park is located at the eastern end of Arkansas Highway 362, southeast of Blackton, Arkansas, at the tripoint junction of Lee, Monroe, and Phillips counties. It is a parcel of swamp, or forested wetlands, which is remarkably unchanged from the time when surveyors came here in 1815. This type of wetlands is becoming increasingly rare because of the practice of draining and clearing such land for agricultural use. The boardwalk, long, leads to the site of the marker, with occasional interpretive signs describing the ecology of the area and the significance of the national historic landmark.\n\nThe Louisiana Purchase Survey Marker is in height and is about wide at the base. It typically stands in about of swamp water. The inscription reads: \n\"This stone marks the base established November 10, 1815, from which the lands of the Louisiana Purchase were surveyed by United States engineers. The first survey from this point was made to satisfy the claims of the soldiers of the War of 1812 with land bounties\".\n\nOn April 30, 1803, negotiators for the United States and the First French Empire, signed the Louisiana Purchase agreement, by which the United States acquired of land west of the Mississippi River, doubling its size. President Thomas Jefferson commissioned the Lewis and Clark Expedition, which traveled west along the Missouri and associated rivers, eventually reaching the Pacific Coast, from 1804 to 1806.\n\nPresident James Monroe ordered a survey of the territory in 1815, in order to permit the orderly award of land in the territory to military veterans of the War of 1812. Prospect K. Robbins and Joseph C. Brown were commissioned to identify a starting point for the survey work in what is now eastern Arkansas. The team led by Robbins traveled north from the mouth of the Arkansas River, while that of Brown traveled west from the mouth of the St. Francis River. On October 27, 1815, Robbins' party crossed the east-west line laid down by Brown's party at this point, formally establishing the Fifth Principal Meridian. The of land Robbins traversed is even today some of the most difficult terrain in the state to negotiate. Brown's party traversed of land alternately described as \"good for farming\" and containing \"briers and thickets in abundance\". Brown's party eventually surveyed as far west as present-day Little Rock, while Robbins continued north to the Missouri River. Two trees near the site were blazed to mark the meeting point of the two survey lines.\n\nAlthough survey work based on this point continued in subsequent years, covering most of Arkansas, Missouri, Minnesota, Iowa, and North and South Dakota, the initial point was forgotten. It was rediscovered in 1921 by surveyors working the line between Phillips and Lee counties, who found the blazed trees. The Marianna, Arkansas chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution began a campaign to memorialize the spot, culminating in the placement of the stone marker and a dedication ceremony on October 27, 1926, the 111th anniversary of the point's establishment.\n\nOne forgotten feature of the dedication ceremony was that four local landowners each gave deeds for of land surrounding the point, which would have created an eight-acre park. Arkansas designated the area as a state park in 1961, but appropriated no funds for land purchases or development. The Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission, recognizing the swamp's natural significance, provided funds to purchase the 37.5 acres which now make up the park. The Commission holds a conservation easement on the property to limit development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6518155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6518155", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1985", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1985\n\nMelodifestivalen 1985 was the selection for the 25th song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 24th time that this system of picking a song had been used. 90 songs were submitted to SVT for the competition. The final was broadcast on TV1 but was not broadcast on radio. The presenter, Eva Andersson, was the 1980 Miss Sweden. No orchestra was used, as all songs were performed to backing track. There have been claims that this was because SVT could not afford to hire the orchestra for two shows, as they were hosting the Eurovision Song Contest in 1985.\n\nSeventeen-year-old Pernilla Wahlgren, singing \"Piccadilly Circus\", was the favourite to win. However, she finished 4th and the following day Lasse Anrell from Swedish newspaper \"Expressen\" was \"angry\". 85% of the \"Expressen\" readers who phoned afterwards said that \"the wrong song\" won.\n\nKikki Danielsson won with the song \"Bra vibrationer\", which throughout the years has become something of a signature song. This was the fourth victory in a row for Bert Karlsson's label Mariann Grammofon AB. Five of the songs were, alone or not, written by Ingela 'Pling' Forsman and Monica Forsberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13505068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13505068", "title": "Minnesota Renaissance Festival", "text": "Minnesota Renaissance Festival\n\nThe Minnesota Renaissance Festival is a Renaissance fair, an interactive outdoor event which focuses on recreating the look and feel of a fictional 16th Century \"England-like\" fantasy kingdom. It operates during weekends from mid-August until the final week in September on a site near the Minnesota River in Shakopee, a suburb of the Twin Cities.\n\nThe Minnesota Renaissance Festival began in September 1971 on a field in Jonathan, Minnesota. More than 25,000 people visited the two weekend grand opening of the festival then named “A Celebration of Nature, Art, and Life!” It was later moved to its current site in Shakopee where it continues as one of the oldest and largest Renaissance fairs in the United States. It has played host to the early careers of such national acts as the magicians Penn & Teller and The Flying Karamazov Brothers juggling troupe, and it currently hosts acts such as Zilch the Torysteller, Twig the Fairy, Puke and Snot, Johnny Phoenix, The Tortuga Twins, The Danger Committee and Vilification Tennis. On August 19, 1975, Penn & Teller did their first show together at the Minnesota Renaissance Festival. Jason Mraz also worked as a pickle boy early in his performance career.\n\nThe festival features over 700 entertainers, 275 crafters, and 120 food booths.\n\nThe Minnesota Renaissance Festival is one of several such events in the United States owned and operated by Mid-America Festivals.\n\nBecause the land on which the festival was built is leased, in 2014 Mid-America Festivals announced that 2016 would likely be the last season in its current location. The lease contained a clause in which the owners could terminate the lease at any time. In 2016 Mid America Festivals announced the lease term would expire in 2019. Currently, several sites are under consideration, including properties in other parts of Scott County and near Belle Plaine, Minnesota.\n\nThe Minnesota Renaissance Festival provides free parking at its site in Shakopee and directions from its website. Parking is available in two parking lots accessible by a single dirt road crossing active train tracks onto its 400 acre campus Limited access to and from the festival site has led to significant transportation issues including delays as long as two hours either entering or leaving the fairgrounds. Traffic problems have created significant backups and delays along Minnesota Highway 169 with traffic being identified as the number one issue.\n\nIn the 1980s, the Minnesota Transportation Museum provided train trips to the Renaissance Festival using Northern Pacific 328. These trains used Chicago & North Western Railway tracks between Minneapolis and Merriam Junction, which is located next to the Renaissance Festival grounds. The rail line was severed between Hopkins and Chaska in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3751633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3751633", "title": "National Theatre (Oslo)", "text": "National Theatre (Oslo)\n\nThe National Theatre in Oslo () is one of Norway's largest and most prominent venues for performance of dramatic arts.\n\nThe theatre had its first performance on 1 September 1899 but can trace its origins to Christiania Theatre, which was founded in 1829. There were three official opening performances, on subsequent days in September: first, selected pieces by Ludvig Holberg, then \"An Enemy of the People\" by Henrik Ibsen, and on the third day \"Sigurd Jorsalfar\" by Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson.\n\nThe National Theatre was founded as a private institution and weathered several financial crises until 1929, when the Norwegian government started providing modest support. A number of famous Norwegians have served as artistic directors for the theatre, but Vilhelm Krag who took over in 1911, is credited as having brought the theatre into its \"golden age.\"\n\nThe theatre is often considered the home for Ibsen's plays, and most of his works have been performed here. Notable is also the children's Christmas play, \"The Journey to the Christmas Star\" (), written by the then theatre's finance director Sverre Brandt and performed for the first time in 1924.\n\nThe main building is centrally located between the Royal Palace, Oslo and the Parliament of Norway. It is served by National Theatre Station and National Theatre metro stations. It was designed by architect Henrik Bull.\nThe theatre organisation manages four stages: the main stage (), the amphitheatre () and Painting Parlour () within the main building. The fourth is the Torshov Theatre () in the Torshov district of Oslo.\n, the theatre's artistic director was Hanne Tømta.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6170183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6170183", "title": "Nordic Challenge Cup", "text": "Nordic Challenge Cup\n\nNordic Challenge Cup (NCC) was the predecessor of the popular and long-running sports car racing series Interserie, which is known as the \"European Can-Am\" and still exists today. NCC consisted of only three races in 1969 and was replaced by Interserie in 1970. It is now mostly remembered for the large number of Formula One drivers competing in it. Among these drivers were Jochen Rindt, who won the F1 World Drivers' Championship posthumously in 1970, and Jackie Oliver. The series also launched the career of Leo Kinnunen who went on to win the World Sportscar Championship the next year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2070801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2070801", "title": "Operation Ke", "text": "Operation Ke\n\nThe Japanese decided to withdraw and concede Guadalcanal to Allied forces for several reasons. All attempts by the Japanese army to recapture Henderson Field, the airfield on Guadalcanal in use by Allied aircraft, had been repulsed with heavy losses. Japanese ground forces on the island had been reduced from 36,000 to 11,000 through starvation, disease, and battle casualties. Japanese naval forces in the area were also suffering heavy losses attempting to reinforce and resupply the ground forces on the island. These losses, plus the projected resources needed for further attempts to recapture Guadalcanal, were affecting strategic security and operations in other areas of the Japanese Empire. The decision to withdraw was endorsed by Emperor Hirohito on 31 December 1942.\n\nThe operation began on 14 January 1943 with the delivery of a battalion of infantry troops to Guadalcanal to act as rearguard for the evacuation. Around the same time, Japanese army and navy air forces began an air superiority campaign around the Solomon Islands and New Guinea. During the air campaign, a US cruiser was sunk in the Battle of Rennell Island. Two days later, Japanese aircraft sank a US destroyer near Guadalcanal. The withdrawal was carried out on the nights of 1, 4, and 7 February by destroyers.\n\nAt a cost of one destroyer sunk and three damaged, the Japanese evacuated 10,652 men from Guadalcanal. During the evacuation 600 died and 3,000 more required extensive hospital care. On 9 February, Allied forces realized that the Japanese were gone and declared Guadalcanal secure, ending the six-month campaign for control of the island.\n\nOn 7 August 1942, the US 1st Marine Division landed on Guadalcanal, Tulagi, and Florida Islands in the Solomon Islands. The landings on the islands were meant to deny their use by the Japanese as bases for threatening the supply routes between the US and Australia, and to secure the islands as starting points for a campaign with the eventual goal of capturing or neutralizing the major Japanese base at Rabaul while also supporting the Allied New Guinea campaign. The landings initiated the six-month-long Guadalcanal campaign.\n\nTaking the Japanese by surprise, by nightfall on 8 August the Allied troops (mainly United States Marine Corps) secured Tulagi and nearby small islands as well as the Japanese airfield under construction at Lunga Point on Guadalcanal. The Allies later renamed it \"Henderson Field\". Allied aircraft operating out of Henderson were called the \"Cactus Air Force\" (CAF) after the Allied code name for Guadalcanal.\n\nIn response to the Allied landings on Guadalcanal, the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters (IGH) assigned the Imperial Japanese Army's (IJA) 17th Army, a corps-sized command headquartered at Rabaul under the command of Lieutenant General Harukichi Hyakutake, the task of retaking Guadalcanal. Because of the threat by CAF aircraft, the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) was unable to use large, slow transport ships to deliver troops and supplies to the island. Instead, warships based at Rabaul and the Shortland Islands were used to carry forces to Guadalcanal. The Japanese warships, mainly light cruisers and destroyers from the Eighth Fleet under the command of Vice Admiral Gunichi Mikawa, were usually able to make the round trip down \"The Slot\" to Guadalcanal and back in a single night, thereby minimizing their exposure to CAF air attack. These high speed warship runs to Guadalcanal occurred throughout the campaign and were later called the \"Tokyo Express\" by Allied forces and \"Rat Transportation\" by the Japanese.\n\nUsing forces delivered to Guadalcanal in this manner, the Japanese army tried three times to retake Henderson Field, but was defeated each time. After the third failure, an attempt by the IJN to deliver the rest of the IJA 38th Infantry Division and its heavy equipment failed during the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal from 12–15 November. Because of this failure, the Japanese canceled their next planned attempt to recapture Henderson Field.\n\nIn mid-November, Allied forces attacked the Japanese at Buna-Gona in New Guinea. Japanese Combined Fleet naval leaders, headquartered at Truk and under the overall command of Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, felt Allied advances in New Guinea posed a greater threat to the security of the Japanese Empire than an Allied military presence in the southern Solomons. Therefore, Combined Fleet naval staff officers began to prepare plans for abandoning Guadalcanal and shifting priorities and resources to operations around New Guinea. At this time, the navy did not inform the army of their intentions in this regard.\n\nAs December began, the Japanese experienced considerable difficulty in keeping their troops on Guadalcanal resupplied because of Allied air and naval attacks on the Japanese supply chain of ships and bases. The few supplies delivered to the island were not enough to sustain Japanese troops who, by 7 December, were losing about 50 men each day to malnutrition, disease, and Allied ground or air attacks. The Japanese had delivered almost 30,000 army troops to Guadalcanal since the campaign began, but by December only about 20,000 of that number were still alive; of those, only around 12,000 remained more or less fit for combat duty, with the rest incapacitated by battle wounds, disease, or malnutrition.\n\nThe IJN continued to suffer losses and damage to its ships in attempting to keep the Japanese on Guadalcanal resupplied. One destroyer was sunk by American warships at the Battle of Tassafaronga on 30 November. Another destroyer plus a submarine were sunk and two destroyers damaged by American PT boat and CAF air attacks during subsequent resupply missions from 3–12 December. Compounding the navy's frustration, very few of the supplies carried on these missions reached Japanese army forces on the island. Combined Fleet leaders began telling their army counterparts the losses and damage to warships engaged in the resupply effort threatened future strategic plans for protecting the Japanese Empire.\n\nThroughout November, Japan's top military leaders at the IGH in Tokyo continued to openly support further efforts to retake Guadalcanal from Allied forces. At the same time, lower-ranking staff officers began to discreetly discuss abandoning the island. Takushiro Hattori and Masanobu Tsuji, each of whom had recently visited Guadalcanal, told their colleagues on the staff that any further attempt to retake the island was a lost cause. Ryūzō Sejima reported that the attrition of IJA troop-strength on Guadalcanal was so unexpectedly severe that future operations would be untenable. On 11 December two staff officers, IJN Commander Yuji Yamamoto and IJA Major Takahiko Hayashi, returned to Tokyo from Rabaul and confirmed Hattori's, Tsuji's, and Sejima's reports. They further reported that most of the IJN and IJA officers at Rabaul appeared to support abandoning Guadalcanal. Around this time, Japan's War Ministry informed the IGH that there was insufficient shipping to support both the effort to retake Guadalcanal and transport strategic resources to maintain Japan's economy and military forces.\n\nOn 19 December, a delegation of IGH staff officers led by IJA Colonel Joichiro Sanada, chief of the IGH's operations section, arrived at Rabaul for discussions about future plans concerning New Guinea and Guadalcanal. Hitoshi Imamura, commander of the 8th Area Army in charge of IJA operations in New Guinea and the Solomons, did not directly recommend a withdrawal from Guadalcanal but openly and clearly described the current difficulties involved with any further attempts to retake the island. Imamura also stated that any decision to withdraw should include plans to evacuate as many of the soldiers from Guadalcanal as possible.\n\nSanada returned to Tokyo on 25 December and recommended to the IGH that Guadalcanal be abandoned immediately and all priority given to the campaign in New Guinea. The IGH's top leaders agreed with Sanada's recommendation on 26 December and ordered their staffs to begin drafting plans for the withdrawal from Guadalcanal and establishment of a new defense line in the central Solomons.\n\nOn 28 December, General Hajime Sugiyama and Admiral Osami Nagano personally informed Emperor Hirohito of the decision to withdraw from Guadalcanal. On 31 December, the Emperor formally endorsed the decision.\n\nOn 3 January, IGH informed the 8th Area Army and the Combined Fleet of the decision to withdraw from Guadalcanal. By 9 January, the Combined Fleet and 8th Area Army staffs together completed the plan, officially called Operation \"Ke\" after a mora in Japanese Kana vocabulary, to execute the evacuation.\n\nThe plan called for a battalion of army infantry to land by destroyer on Guadalcanal around 14 January to act as a rear guard during the evacuation. The 17th Army was to begin withdrawing to the western end of the island about 25 or 26 January. An air superiority campaign around the southern Solomons would begin on 28 January. The 17th Army would be picked up in three lifts by destroyers the first week of February with a target completion date of 10 February. At the same time, Japanese air and naval forces would conduct conspicuous maneuvers and minor attacks around New Guinea and the Marshall Islands along with deceptive radio traffic to try to confuse the Allies as to their intentions.\nYamamoto detailed aircraft carriers and , battleships and – with four heavy cruisers and a destroyer as the screening force – under Nobutake Kondō to provide distant cover for \"Ke\" around Ontong Java in the northern Solomons. The evacuation runs were to be carried out by Mikawa's 8th Fleet, consisting of heavy cruisers and , light cruiser , and 21 destroyers. Mikawa's destroyers were charged with conducting the evacuation. Yamamoto expected that at least half of Mikawa's destroyers would be sunk during the operation.\n\nSupporting the air superiority portion of the operation were the IJN's 11th Air Fleet and the IJA's 6th Air Division, based at Rabaul with 212 and 100 aircraft, respectively. 64 aircraft from carrier s air group were also temporarily assigned to Rabaul. An additional 60 floatplanes from the IJN's \"R\" Area Air Force, based at Rabaul, Bougainville, and the Shortland Islands, brought the total number of Japanese aircraft involved in the operation to 436. The combined Japanese warship and naval air units in the area formed the Southeast Area Fleet, commanded by Jinichi Kusaka at Rabaul.\n\nOpposing the Japanese and under the command of United States Navy Admiral William Halsey, Jr., commander of Allied forces in the South Pacific, were fleet carriers and , six escort carriers, three fast battleships, four old battleships, 13 cruisers, and 45 destroyers. In the air, the 13th Air Force numbered 92 fighters and bombers under United States Army Brigadier General Nathan F. Twining and the CAF on Guadalcanal counted 81 aircraft under US Marine Brigadier General Francis P. Mulcahy. Rear Admiral Aubrey Fitch was overall commander of Aircraft South Pacific. The air units of the fleet and escort carriers added another 339 aircraft. In addition, 30 heavy bombers were stationed in New Guinea with sufficient range to conduct missions over the Solomon Islands. In total, the Allies possessed around 539 aircraft available to oppose the \"Ke\" operation.\n\nBy the first week of January, disease, starvation, and battle had reduced Hyakutake's command to about 14,000 troops, with many of them too sick and malnourished to fight. The 17th Army possessed three operable field cannon, with very little ammunition. In contrast, the Allied commander on the island, US Army Major General Alexander Patch, fielded a combined force of US Army and US Marines, designated the XIV Corps, totaling 50,666 men. At Patch's disposal were 167 artillery weapons, including , , and howitzers, and plentiful stocks of shells.\n\nOn 1 January, the Japanese military changed their radio communication codes, making it more difficult for Allied intelligence, which had previously partially broken Japanese radio ciphers, to divine Japanese intentions and movement. As January progressed, Allied reconnaissance and radio traffic analysis noted the buildup of ships and aircraft at Truk, Rabaul, and the Shortland Islands. Allied analysts determined that the increased radio traffic in the Marshalls was a deception meant to divert attention from an operation about to take place in either New Guinea or the Solomons. Allied intelligence personnel misinterpreted the nature of the operation; on 26 January, the Allied Pacific Command's intelligence section informed Allied forces in the Pacific that the Japanese were preparing for a new offensive, called \"Ke\", in either the Solomons or New Guinea.\n\nOn 14 January, an Express mission of nine destroyers delivered the Yano Battalion, designated as the rear guard for the \"Ke\" evacuation, to Guadalcanal. The battalion, commanded by Major Keiji Yano, consisted of 750 infantry and a battery of mountain guns crewed by another 100 men. Accompanying the battalion was Lieutenant Colonel Kumao Imoto, representing the 8th Area Army, who was to deliver the evacuation order and plan to Hyakutake. The 17th Army had not yet been informed of the decision to withdraw. CAF and 13th Air Force air attacks on the nine destroyers during their return trip damaged destroyers and and destroyed eight Japanese fighters escorting the convoy. Five American aircraft were shot down.\n\nLate on 15 January, Imoto reached 17th Army's headquarters at Kokumbona and informed Hyakutake and his staff of the decision to withdraw from the island. Grudgingly accepting the order on the 16th, the 17th Army staff communicated the \"Ke\" evacuation plan to their forces on the 18th. The plan directed the 38th Division, which was currently defending against an American offensive on ridges and hills in the interior of the island, to disengage and withdraw towards Cape Esperance on the western end of Guadalcanal beginning on the 20th. The 38th's retirement would be covered by the 2nd Infantry Division, in place on Guadalcanal since October 1942, and the Yano Battalion, both of which would then follow the 38th westward. Any troops unable to move were encouraged to kill themselves to \"uphold the honor of the Imperial Army\".\n\nPatch initiated a new offensive just as the 38th Division began to withdraw from the inland ridges and hills that it had occupied. On 20 January, the 25th Infantry Division, under Major General J. Lawton Collins, attacked several hills, designated Hills 87, 88, and 89 by the Americans, that formed a ridge that dominated Kokumbona. Encountering much lighter resistance than anticipated, the Americans seized the three hills by the morning of 22 January. Shifting forces to exploit the unexpected breakthrough, Collins quickly continued the advance and captured the next two hills, 90 and 91, by nightfall, placing the Americans in position to isolate and capture Kokumbona and trap the Japanese 2nd Division.\nReacting quickly to the situation, the Japanese hurriedly evacuated Kokumbona and ordered the 2nd Division to retire westward immediately. The Americans captured Kokumbona on 23 January. Although some Japanese units were trapped between the American forces and destroyed, most of the 2nd Division's survivors escaped.\n\nStill fearing a renewed and reinforced Japanese offensive, Patch committed the equivalent of only one regiment at a time to attack the Japanese forces west of Kokumbona, keeping the rest near Lunga Point to protect the airfield. The terrain west of Kokumbona favored the Japanese efforts to delay the Americans as the rest of the 17th Army continued its withdrawal towards Cape Esperance. The American advance was hemmed into a corridor only wide between the ocean and the thick, inland jungle and steep coral ridges. The ridges, running perpendicular to the coast, paralleled numerous streams and creeks that crossed the corridor with \"washboard regularity.\"\n\nOn 26 January, a combined U.S. Army and Marine unit called the Composite Army-Marine (CAM) Division advancing westward encountered the Yano Battalion at the Marmura River. Yano's troops temporarily halted the CAM's advance and then slowly withdrew westward over the next three days. On 29 January, the Yano retreated across the Bonegi River, where soldiers from the 2nd Division had constructed another defensive position.\n\nThe Japanese defenses at the Bonegi held up the American advance for almost three days. On 1 February, with help from a shore bombardment by the destroyers and , the Americans successfully crossed the river but did not immediately press the advance westward.\n\nThe \"Ke\" air superiority campaign began in mid-January with nightly harassment attacks on Henderson Field by 3–10 aircraft, causing little damage. On 20 January, a lone Kawanishi H8K bombed Espiritu Santo. On 25 January, the IJN sent 58 Zero fighters on a daylight raid to Guadalcanal. In response, the CAF sent aloft eight Wildcat and six P-38 fighters, which shot down four Zeros without loss.\n\nA second large raid was conducted on 27 January by nine Kawasaki Ki-48 \"Lily\" light bombers escorted by 74 Nakajima Ki-43 \"Oscar\" fighters from the IJA's 6th Air Division from Rabaul. Twelve Wildcats, six P-38s, and 10 P-40s from Henderson met the raid over Guadalcanal. In the resulting action, the Japanese lost six fighters while the CAF lost one Wildcat, four P-40s, and two P-38s. The \"Lily\"s dropped their bombs on American positions around the Matanikau River, causing little damage.\n\nBelieving that the Japanese were beginning a major offensive in the southern Solomons aimed at Henderson Field, Halsey responded by sending, beginning on 29 January, a resupply convoy to Guadalcanal supported by most of his warship forces, separated into five task forces. These five task forces included two fleet carriers, two escort carriers, three battleships, 12 cruisers, and 25 destroyers.\nScreening the approach of the transport convoy was Task Force 18 (TF 18), under Rear Admiral Robert C. Giffen, with three heavy and three light cruisers, two escort carriers, and eight destroyers. A fleet carrier task force, centered on carrier , steamed about behind TF 18.\n\nIn addition to protecting the supply convoy, TF 18 was charged with rendezvousing with a force of four U.S. destroyers, stationed at Tulagi, at 21:00 on 29 January in order to conduct a sweep up \"The Slot\" north of Guadalcanal the next day to screen the unloading of the transports at Guadalcanal. As the escort carriers were too slow to allow Giffen's force to make the scheduled rendezvous, Giffen left the carriers behind with two destroyers at 14:00 on 29 January and steamed ahead.\n\nGiffen's force was being tracked by Japanese submarines, who reported on Giffen's location and movement to their naval headquarters units. Around mid-afternoon, based on the submarine's reports, 16 Mitsubishi G4M \"Betty\" from the 705 Air Group and 16 Mitsubishi G3M \"Nell\" bombers from the 701 Air Group took off from Rabaul carrying torpedoes to attack Giffen's force, now located between Rennell Island and Guadalcanal.\n\nThe torpedo bombers attacked Giffen's ships in two waves between 19:00 and 20:00. Two torpedoes hit the heavy cruiser , causing heavy damage and bringing her to a dead stop. Three of the Japanese aircraft were shot down by anti-aircraft fire from Giffen's ships. In response, Halsey sent a tug to take \"Chicago\" under tow and ordered Giffen's task force to return to base the next day. Six destroyers were left behind to escort \"Chicago\" and the tugboat.\n\nAt 16:00 on 30 January, a flight of 11 Mitsubishi torpedo bombers from the 751 Air Group, based at Kavieng and staging through Buka, attacked the force towing \"Chicago\". Fighter aircraft from \"Enterprise\" shot down eight of them, but most of the Japanese aircraft were able to release their torpedoes before crashing. One torpedo hit the destroyer , causing heavy damage. Four more torpedoes hit \"Chicago\", sinking her.\n\nThe transport convoy reached Guadalcanal and successfully unloaded its cargo on 30–31 January. The rest of Halsey's warships took station in the Coral Sea south of the Solomons to wait for the approach of any Japanese warship forces supporting what the Allies believed to be an imminent offensive. The departure of TF 18 from the Guadalcanal area removed a significant potential threat to the \"Ke\" operation.\n\nAt 18:30 on 29 January, two corvettes from the Royal New Zealand Navy, and , intercepted the Japanese submarine , which was attempting a supply run, off of Kamimbo on Guadalcanal. The two corvettes rammed and sank \"I-1\" after a 90-minute battle ().\n\nLeaving his cruisers at Kavieng, Mikawa gathered all 21 of his destroyers at the Japanese naval base in the Shortlands on 31 January to begin the evacuation runs. Rear Admiral Shintaro Hashimoto was placed in charge of this group of destroyers, titled the Reinforcement Unit. The \"R\" Area Air Force's 60 floatplanes were tasked with scouting for the Reinforcement Unit and helping defend against Allied PT boat attacks during the nighttime evacuation runs. Allied B-17 bombers attacked the Shortlands anchorage on the morning of 1 February, causing no damage and losing four aircraft to Japanese fighters. This same day, the IJA's 6th Air Division raided Henderson Field with 23 \"Oscar\"s and six \"Lily\"s but caused no damage and suffered the loss of one fighter.\nBelieving that the Japanese might be retreating to the south coast of Guadalcanal, on the morning of 1 February Patch landed a reinforced battalion of army and Marine troops, about 1,500 men under the command of Colonel Alexander George, at Verahue on Guadalcanal's south coast. The U.S. troops were delivered to the landing location by a naval transport force of six landing craft tanks and one transport destroyer (), escorted by four other destroyers (the same destroyers that were to have joined TF 18 three days earlier). A Japanese reconnaissance aircraft spotted the naval landing force. Believing that the force posed a threat to that night's scheduled evacuation run, an airstrike of 13 Aichi D3A2 \"Val\" dive bombers escorted by 40 Zeros departed Buin, Bougainville to attack the ships.\n\nMistaking the Japanese strike aircraft as friendly, the U.S. destroyers withheld fire until the \"Val\"s began their attack. Beginning at 14:53, destroyer was rapidly hit by three bombs and sank almost immediately south of Savo Island with the loss of 167 of her crew, including her captain. Destroyer was damaged by several near-misses. Five \"Val\"s and three Zeros were lost to anti-aircraft fire and CAF fighters. The CAF lost three Wildcats in the engagement.\n\nHashimoto departed the Shortlands at 11:30 on 1 February with 20 destroyers for the first evacuation run. Eleven destroyers were designated as transports screened by the other nine. The destroyers were attacked in the late afternoon near Vangunu by 92 CAF aircraft in two waves. , Hashimoto's flagship, was heavily damaged by a near miss. Four CAF aircraft were shot down. Hashimoto transferred to and detached to tow \"Makinami\" back to base.\n\nEleven U.S. PT boats awaited Hashimoto's destroyers between Guadalcanal and Savo Island. Beginning at 22:45, Hashimoto's warships and the PT boats engaged in a series of running battles over the next three hours. Hashimoto's destroyers, with help from \"R\" Area aircraft, sank three of the PT boats.\n\nIn the meantime, the transport destroyers arrived off of two pick-up locations at Cape Esperance and Kamimbo at 22:40 and 24:00 respectively. Japanese naval personnel ferried the waiting troops out to the destroyers in barges and landing craft. Rear Admiral Tomiji Koyanagi, second-in-command of the Reinforcement Unit, described the evacuees: \"They wore only the remains of clothes that were so soiled their physical deterioration was extreme. Probably they were happy but they showed no expression. Their digestive organs were so completely destroyed, we couldn't give them good food, only porridge.\" Another officer added that, \"Their buttocks were so emaciated that their anuses were completely exposed, and on the destroyers that picked them up they suffered from constant and uncontrolled diarrhea.\"\n\nAfter embarking 4,935 soldiers, mainly from the 38th Division, the transport destroyers ceased loading at 01:58 and prepared to depart for the return trip to the Shortlands. About this time, , one of the screening destroyers, was suddenly wracked by a large explosion, caused by either a PT boat torpedo or a naval mine. Informed that \"Makigumo\" was immobilized, Hashimoto ordered her abandoned and scuttled (). During the return trip, the Reinforcement Unit was attacked by CAF aircraft at 08:00, but sustained no damage and arrived at the Shortlands without further incident at 12:00 on 2 February.\n\nOn 4 February, Patch ordered the 161st Infantry Regiment to replace the 147th at the front and resume the advance westward. The Yano battalion retreated to new positions at the Segilau River and troops were sent to block the advance of George's force along the south coast. Meanwhile, Halsey's carrier and battleship task forces remained just beyond Japanese air attack range about south of Guadalcanal.\nKondō sent two of his force's destroyers, and , to the Shortlands to replace the two destroyers lost in the first evacuation run. Hashimoto led the second evacuation mission with 20 destroyers south toward Guadalcanal at 11:30 on 4 February. The CAF attacked Hashimoto in two waves beginning at 15:50 with a total of 74 aircraft. Bomb near-misses heavily damaged , and Hashimoto detached to tow her back to Shortland. The CAF lost 11 aircraft in the attack while the Japanese lost one Zero.\n\nThe U.S. PT boats did not sortie to attack Hashimoto's force this night and the loading went uneventfully. The Reinforcement Force embarked Hyakutake, his staff, and 3,921 men, mainly from the 2nd Division, and reached Bougainville without incident by 12:50 on 5 February. A CAF airstrike launched that morning failed to locate Hashimoto's force.\n\nBelieving that the Japanese operations on 1 and 4 February had been reinforcement, not evacuation missions, the American forces on Guadalcanal proceeded slowly and cautiously, advancing only about each day. George's force halted on 6 February after advancing to Titi on the south coast. On the north coast, the 161st finally began their attack westward at 10:00 on 6 February and reached the Umasani River the same day. At the same time, the Japanese were withdrawing their remaining 2,000 troops to Kamimbo.\n\nOn 7 February, the 161st crossed the Umasani and reached Bunina, about from Cape Esperance. George's force, now commanded by George F. Ferry, advanced from Titi to Marovovo and dug in for the night about north of the village.\n\nAware of the presence of Halsey's carriers and other large warships near Guadalcanal, the Japanese considered canceling the third evacuation run, but decided to go ahead as planned. Kondō's force closed to within of Guadalcanal from the north to be ready in case Halsey's warships attempted to intervene. Hashimoto departed the Shortlands with 18 destroyers midday of 7 February, this time taking a course south of the Solomons instead of down the Slot. A CAF strike force of 36 aircraft attacked Hashimoto at 17:55, heavily damaging with a bomb near miss. \"Isokaze\" retired escorted by \"Kawakaze\". The Allies and the Japanese each lost one aircraft in the attack.\n\nArriving off Kamimbo, Hashimoto's force loaded 1,972 soldiers by 00:03 on 8 February, unhindered by the U.S. Navy. For an additional 90 minutes, destroyer crewmen rowed their boats along the shore calling out again and again to make sure no one was left behind. At 01:32, the Reinforcement Group left Guadalcanal in its wake and reached Bougainville without incident at 10:00, completing the operation.\n\nAt dawn on 8 February, the U.S. Army forces on both coasts resumed their advances, encountering only a few sick and dying Japanese soldiers. Patch now realized that the Tokyo Express runs over the last week were evacuation, not reinforcement missions. At 16:50 on 9 February, the two American forces met on the west coast at the village of Tenaro. Patch sent a message to Halsey stating, \"Total and complete defeat of Japanese forces on Guadalcanal effected 16:25 today...the Tokyo Express no longer has a terminus on Guadalcanal.\"\n\nThe Japanese had successfully evacuated a total of 10,652 men from Guadalcanal, about all that remained of the 36,000 total troops sent to the island during the campaign. Six hundred of the evacuees succumbed to their injuries or illnesses before they could receive sufficient medical care. Three thousand more required lengthy hospitalization or recuperation. After receiving word of the completion of the operation, Yamamoto commended all the units involved and ordered Kondō to return to Truk with his warships. The 2nd and 38th Divisions were shipped to Rabaul and partially reconstituted with replacements. The 2nd Division was relocated to the Philippines in March 1943 while the 38th was assigned to defend Rabaul and New Ireland. The 8th Area Army and Southeast Area Fleet reoriented their forces to defend the central Solomons at Kolombangara and New Georgia and prepared to send the reinforcements, mainly consisting of the 51st Infantry Division, originally detailed for Guadalcanal to New Guinea. The 17th Army was rebuilt around the 6th Infantry Division and headquartered on Bougainville. A few Japanese stragglers remained on Guadalcanal, many of whom were killed or captured by Allied patrols. The last known Japanese holdout surrendered in October 1947.\n\nIn hindsight, historians have faulted the Americans, especially Patch and Halsey, for not taking advantage of their ground, aerial, and naval superiority to prevent the successful Japanese evacuation of most of their surviving forces from Guadalcanal. Said Chester Nimitz, commander of Allied forces in the Pacific, of the success of Operation Ke, \"Until the last moment it appeared that the Japanese were attempting a major reinforcement effort. Only the skill in keeping their plans disguised and bold celerity in carrying them out enabled the Japanese to withdraw the remnants of the Guadalcanal garrison. Not until all organized forces had been evacuated on 8 February did we realize the purpose of their air and naval dispositions.\"\n\nNevertheless, the successful campaign to recapture Guadalcanal from the Japanese was an important strategic victory for the U.S. and its allies. Building on their success at Guadalcanal and elsewhere, the Allies continued their campaign against Japan, ultimately culminating in Japan's defeat and the end of World .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10705851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10705851", "title": "Paris Fashion Week", "text": "Paris Fashion Week\n\nParis Fashion Week () is a series of designer presentations held semiannually in Paris, France with spring/summer and autumn/winter events held each year. Dates are determined by the French Fashion Federation. Paris Fashion Week is held at venues throughout the city. It is widely considered the most prestigious of the Big Four Fashion Weeks. \n\nIn addition to ready-to-wear shows, there are men's and haute couture shows, which are held semiannually for the spring/summer and autumn/winter seasons. Also, every year, famous brands like Dior, Chanel, Louis Vuitton, Givenchy, and Céline host their shows in historical places such as the Carrousel du Louvre and the Grand Palais.\n\nParis Fashion Week is part of the global \"Big 4\" fashion weeks, the others being London Fashion Week, Milan Fashion Week and New York Fashion Week. The schedule begins with New York, followed by London, and then Milan and ends in Paris.\n\nAlthough the first fashion week was held in New York, the event itself derives from \"salon shows\" (\"défilés de mode\" in French, literally \"fashion parades\") in Paris couture salons.\n\nA fashion week consists of a week of organized events of multiple designer’s collections. Before this organized event was recognized in New York City, fashion showings were being held in Paris as early as the 1700s. These early showings were only to clients purchasing items and were shown on mannequins. In the 1800s, showings began to change. Charles Frederick Worth, noted for haute couture, began showing multiple pieces together and of a higher design. Jeanne Paquin is the first designer to make her showings public and Paul Poiret is the first to host parties after his events.\n\nIn the mid 1800s Mme Pauline von Metternich, an Austrian Princess and wife to the Ambassador of Paris, saw one of Worth’s sketches and employed him to make her a gown. He gained much recognition through his powerful clients and opened his own haute couture house in Paris in 1858, which sold luxury fashion to upper class women.\n\nIn 1868 the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture was created to set the specifications to determine what constituted a ‘couture house’. The group decided that to be defined a piece of haute couture the clothing must have been; custom-made to fit the wearer, hand-sewn by multiple skilled artisans in the separate fields of embroidery, stitching, and beading, and only the most high quality of materials may be used.\n\nFifty-three years after the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture was created, in 1921 the French press created L’Association de Protection des Industries Artistiques Saisonnieres, or PAIS to protect couture designs from being copied. To ensure the copyright of the designers, their creations were photographed on a model or mannequin from the front, back, and sides to catalog the design.\n\nIn 1945 the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture established another set of rules to regulate and determine Haute Couture houses. In order to meet the criteria, the house had to ensure they followed the updated rules with one of them being that in each season, a couture house must present a collection of at least 35 runs with both daytime and evening wear to the Paris press. Others included having at least 20 members on staff, and that every design must include fittings and be made-to-order for the clientele. The following biannual events of Haute Couture houses in accordance with the new guidelines set by the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture have been seen as the first pair of fashion weeks in Paris.\n\nThe first recognized Paris Fashion Week was held in 1973 and organized Haute Couture, Ready-to-Wear, and Men’s Fashion into one grouped showing by the Fédération Française de la Couture.\n\nThe event was a fundraiser held at the Palace of Versailles to restore the palace. The amount aimed to reach to repair the palace was estimated at $60 million USD which converts to 53,026,956 Euros. The fundraiser was started because the French government had stated they could not handle the cost of the renovations. It was overseen by the founder of New York Press Week, now known as New York Fashion Week, Eleanor Lambert, in accordance with, the at the time Versailles curator, Gereld van der Kemp. The restorations and renovations included Marie Antoinette’s dressing room, Louis XV’s children’s play room, and a staircase which began construction in 1722 but was never finished.\n\nBoth American and Parisian designers attended the event including; Anne Klein, Bill Blass, Stephen Burrows, Oscar de la Renta, Hubert de Givenchy, and Yves Saint Laurent. The French designer’s each held their own showing set to various themes whose pieces included; a rocket ship, pumpkin coach and a rhinoceros pulling a gypsy caravan.\n\nThe American designers, due to errors in measurement conversion, collectively held one showing under the common theme of Paris using both Caucasian and African-American models. The American designers’ use of diversity in models marked the event as the first time African-American models had walked a French runway.\n\nThe event gained much publicity because of the designers involved and is given the nickname \"The Battle of Versailles\" because of its location and the tension between the American and Parisian designers during the run of the show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199615", "title": "Preparations for 2003 invasion of Iraq", "text": "Preparations for 2003 invasion of Iraq\n\nThe 2003 invasion of Iraq began on March 20. On March 18, US President George W. Bush had set a deadline for the ruler of Iraq, Saddam Hussein, and his two sons, Uday and Qusay, to leave the country or face military action. By the time of the ultimatum, political and military preparations for the invasion were well advanced. \n\nPlans for securing Iraqi cities following the invasion, infrastructure reconstruction, and transitioning the country into a post-war government – plans to \"win the peace\" — were either nonexistent or woefully inadequate. The lack of a post-invasion security plan allowed widespread looting and the violent insurgency that immediately followed the invasion. The looting \"caused far more damage to Iraq's infrastructure than the bombing campaign\" and suggested to the insurgents that the US military was vulnerable. The Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction wrote, \"There was insufficient systematic planning for human capital management in Iraq before and during the U.S.-directed stabilization and reconstruction operations.\" \n\nFormer UK Minister of Defence Geoff Hoon commented on this issue in 2007 and said, \"There was an enormous amount of post-war planning. It's one of the things that the newspapers have never troubled to look at. I accept, and I've said so publicly, that we perhaps did not anticipate quite the kinds of trouble that we would have. I think we thought that because the population of Iraq hated Saddam Hussein, they would simply come out on the streets and everything would be fine... I don't think we quite estimated the degree of control that Saddam's people had in Iraqi society... So the kind of things we were planning for, with the benefit of hindsight, perhaps weren't quite the right things. But they were the right things in terms of the problems that we anticipated, which was the lack of food, water. We probably didn't quite appreciate, as I say, the ruthlessness of some of Saddam's [followers].\"\n\nPolitical preparation for war began in earnest during the period of weapons inspections in Iraq over the winter of 2002–2003, carried out by a team led by Hans Blix with the authority of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1441. The U.S. and its principal allies, the United Kingdom, Spain and Portugal, maintained a skeptical position on the results of the inspections procedure. Under pressure from his Secretary of State, Colin Powell, and his main ally, the UK, President Bush decided to try to obtain UN backing for an invasion. The so-called \"second resolution\" (the first being 1441) was eventually drafted and presented to the UN Security Council. It was a tough resolution, calling for immediate compliance with the previous resolutions requiring disarmament, and setting a 10-day deadline for compliance. Critics saw it as an unrealistic ultimatum designed to provide the U.S. with a cause for war, and it met considerable opposition in the security council, with opponents including the permanent members France, China, and Germany. After a period of intense diplomacy, President Bush met with his British, Spanish and Portuguese counterparts, Prime Minister Tony Blair, Prime Minister José María Aznar and Prime Minister José Manuel Barroso in the Azores, Portugal on March 15 and 16. Declaring that \"diplomacy had failed,\" he announced the intention to drop the proposed resolution. Subsequently, both the U.S. and the UK accused France of effectively blocking the negotiations by threatening to veto the proposed resolution \"whatever the circumstances\", but France maintained that its position had been intentionally misconstrued. Lacking the \"second resolution\", the U.S. announced its intention to attack Iraq regardless if Saddam Hussein did not abdicate.\n\nThe U.S.'s rationale for war depended on several contentions. First, it contended that Iraq was in possession of weapons of mass destruction, which it claimed he might be willing to supply to terrorists. Second, it accused Iraq of supporting terrorism, notably through payments to families of Palestinian suicide bombers. In this way, the U.S. contended, Iraq presented a threat that it would be justified in removing, placing this as a new interpretation of the doctrine of self-defence. Third, it stated that the U.S. was legally justified in taking military action by previous UN resolutions, most notably 1441, which stated that \"serious consequences\" would result from a failure to disarm on Iraq's part.\n\"Continued at:\" 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1686010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1686010", "title": "Procession", "text": "Procession\n\nA procession (French \"procession\" via Middle English, derived from Latin, \"processio\", from \"procedere\", to go forth, advance, proceed) is an organized body of people walking in a formal or ceremonial manner.\n\nProcessions have in all peoples and at all times been a natural form of public celebration, as forming an orderly and impressive ceremony. Religious and triumphal processions are abundantly illustrated by ancient monuments, e.g. the religious processions of Egypt, those illustrated by the rock-carvings of Boghaz-Keui, the many representations of processions in Greek art, culminating in the great Panathenaic procession of the Parthenon Frieze, and Roman triumphal reliefs, such as those of the arch of Titus.\n\nProcessions played a prominent part in the great festivals of Greece, where they were always religious in character. The games were either opened or accompanied by more or less elaborate processions and sacrifices, while processions from the earliest times formed part of the worship of the old nature gods, as those connected with the cult of Dionysus and the Phallic processions, and later formed an essential part of the celebration of the great religious festivals (e.g. the processions of the Thesmophoria, and that of the Great Dionysia), and of the mysteries (e.g. the great procession from Athens to Eleusis, in connection with the Eleusinia).\n\nOf the Roman processions, the most prominent was that of the Triumph, which had its origin in the return of the victorious army headed by the general, who proceeded in great pomp from the Campus to the Capitol to offer sacrifice, accompanied by the army, captives, spoils, the chief magistrate, priests bearing the images of the gods, amidst strewing of flowers, burning of incense and the like (Ovid, \"Trist.\" iv. 2, 3 and 6). Connected with the triumph was the \"pompa circensis\", or solemn procession that preceded the games in the circus. It first came into use at the \"Ludi Romani\", when the games were preceded by a great procession from the Capitol to the Circus. The praetor or consul who appeared in the ponipa circensis wore the robes of a triumphing general (see Mommsen, Staatsrec/zt I. 397 for the connection of the triumph with the \"ludi\"). Thus, when it became customary for the consul to celebrate games at the opening of the consular year, he came, under the empire, to appear in triumphal robes in the processus consularis, or procession of the consul to the Capitol to sacrifice to Jupiter.\n\nAfter the ascendency of Christianity in the Roman Empire, the consular processions in Constantinople retained their religious character, now proceeding to Hagia Sophia, where prayers and offerings were made; but in Rome, where Christianity was not so widely spread among the upper classes, at first the tendency was to convert the procession into a purely civil function, omitting the pagan rites and prayers, without substituting Christian ones Only after Theodosius did the processions become a religious event, replete with icons, crosses, and banners. There were other local processions connected with the primitive worship of the country people, which remained unchanged, but they were eventually overshadowed by the popular piety of the Church. Such were those of the Ambarvalia, Robigalia, which were essentially rustic festivals, lustrations of the fields, consisting in a procession round the spot to be purified, leading the sacrificial victims with prayers, hymns, and ceremonies to protect the young crops from evil influence.\n\nTertullian (2nd century) uses \"processio\" and \"procedere\" in the sense of to go out, appear in public, and, as applied to a church function, \"processio\" was first used in the same way as \"collecta\", i.e. for the assembly of the people in a church. In this sense it appears to be used by Pope Leo I, while in the version by Dionysius Exiguus of the 17th canon of the Council of Laodicea (about 363–364) , is translated by \"processionibus\".\n\nFor the processions that formed part of the ritual of the Eucharist, those of the introit, the gospel and the oblation, the earliest records date from the 6th century and even later, but they evidently were established at a much earlier date. As to public processions, these seem to have come into rapid vogue after the recognition of Christianity as the religion of the empire. Those at Jerusalem would seem to have been long established when described by the author of the \"Peregrinatio Sylviae\" towards the end of the 4th century.\n\nVery early were the processions accompanied by hymns and prayers, known as \"litaniae\", \"rogationes\" or \"supplicationes\". It is to such a procession that reference appears to be made in a letter of St Basil, which would thus be the first recorded mention of a public Christian procession. The first mention for the Western Church occurs in St Ambrose. In both these cases the litanies are stated to have been long in use. There is also mention of a procession accompanied by hymns, organized at Constantinople by St John Chrysostom (c. 390-400) in opposition to a procession of Arians, in Sozomen. In times of calamity litanies were held, in which the people walked in robes of penitence, fasting, barefooted, and, in later times, frequently dressed in black (\"litaniae nigrae\"). The cross was carried at the head of the procession and often the gospel and the relics of the saint were carried. Gregory of Tours gives numerous instances of such litanies in time of calamity; thus he describes a procession of the clergy and people round the city, in which relics of St Remigius were carried and litanies chanted in order to avert the plague. So, too, Gregory the Great writes to the Sicilian bishops to hold processions to prevent a threatened invasion of Sicily. A famous instance of these penitential litanies is the \"litania septiformis\" ordered by Gregory the Great in the year 590, when Rome had been inundated and pestilence had followed.\n\nIn this litany seven processions, of clergy, laymen, monks, nuns, matrons, the poor, and children respectively, starting from seven different churches, proceeding to hear mass at St. Maria Maggiore. This litany has often been confused with the \"litania major\", introduced at Rome in 598 (vide supra), but is quite distinct from it. Funeral processions, accompanied with singing and the carrying of lighted tapers, were very early customary (see ceremonial use of lights), and akin to these, also very early, were the processions connected with the translation of the relics of martyrs from their original burying place to the church where they were to be enshrined. From the time of the emperor Constantine I these processions were of great magnificence.\n\nSome liturgists maintain that the early Church in its processions followed Old Testament precedents, quoting such cases as the procession of the ark round the walls of Jericho, the procession of David with the ark, the processions of thanksgiving on the return from captivity, &c. The liturgy of the early Church as Duchesne shows was influenced by that of the Jewish synagogue, but the theory that the Church's processions were directly related to the Old Testament ritual is of late origin.\n\nFestivals involving processions were adopted by the Christian Church from the pagan calendar of Rome. The \"litaniae majores et minores\", which are stated by Hermann Usener to have been first instituted by Pope Liberius (352-366). It is generally acknowledged that they are the equivalent of the Christian Church of the Roman lustrations of the crops in spring, the Ambarvalia, &c. The \"litania major\", or great procession on St Mark's day (April 25) is shown to coincide both in date and ritual with the Roman Robigalia, which took place ad. vii. Kal. Mai., and consisted in a procession leaving Rome by the Flaminian gate, and proceeding by way of the Milvian bridge to a sanctuary at the 5th milestone of the Via Claudia, where the flamen quirinalis sacrificed a dog and a sheep to avert blight (robigo) from the crops. The litania major followed the same route as far as the Milvian bridge, when it turned off and returned to St Peter's, where mass was celebrated. This was already established as an annual festival by 598, as is shown by a document of Gregory the Great that inculcates the duty of celebrating litaniam, quae major ab omnibus appellatur. The \"litaniae minores\" or rogations, held on the three days preceding Ascension Day, were first introduced into Gaul by Bishop Mamertus of Vienne (c. 470), and made binding for all Gaul by the First Council of Orleans (511). The litaniae minores were also adopted for these three days in Rome by Pope Leo III (c. 800).\n\nA description of the institution and character of the Ascensiontide rogations is given by Sidonius Apollinaris. The solemnity of these, he says, was first established by Mamertus. Hitherto they had been erratic, lukewarm, and poorly attended (vagae, tepentes, infrequentesque). Those he instituted were characterized by fasting, prayers, psalms, and tears. In the Ambrosian rite the rogations take place after Ascension, and in the Spanish on the Thursday to Saturday after Whitsuntide, and in November (Synod of Girona, 517).\n\nThe Story of the Stone, written in the 18th century, contains a description of the procession accompanying an Imperial Concubine:\n\nMany elements may be used to make a procession more significant than just \"people walking in the same direction\":\n\n\nEdo-period documenters enjoyed drawing the processions of pleasure district beauties, such as \"Courtesan Parading With Attendants\" by Suzuki Harunobu. Similar parading courtesans feature in \"Cherry Blossom in the Evening on the Nakanomachi in Yoshiwara\" by Utagawa Hiroshige and \"True Scenery of the Gay Quarter of Minatozakimachi Shinminato\" by Utagawa Sadahide. The Lord Mayor's Show in London has long featured displays by the city's official trade guilds. Parades were at one time important advertisement when a traveling circus arrived in a new town. Today, many parades in the United States are sponsored by department stores, such as Macy's, which expect the public spectacle to lure shoppers to the store.\n\nThe \"Reception of the Ambassadors From Siam at the Château de Fontainebleau\" was one such example, documented by Jean-Léon Gérôme in 1864. The signing of surrender by Japanese diplomats and soldiers aboard an American battle ship at the end of World War II involved a strictly codified procession on and off the ship. Processions play an important role in coronations, such as that of Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom in 1953, the Shah of Iran in 1967, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II of the Ashanti in 1999, and Norodom Sihamoni of Cambodia in 2004.\n\nSuch as ancient Roman triumphs, the durbar processions of India, and modern reviewing of the troops by generals and heads of state. \"Return From Vienna\", a painting by Jozef Brandt, shows war booty taken from the Turks being escorted into eastern Europe by soldiers.\n\nSome processions are arranged for entertainment, purely for fun, such as those of community organizations and friendly societies, so popular in Great Britain and the United States of America.\n\nReligious ceremonies have since prehistory employed the procession of holy objects to inspire solidarity of belief. The Doges of Venice once staged elaborate barge processions to bless the waters on which Venice's tightly controlled maritime economy depended. Symbolic processions were an important tool in the non-violent protest of Mahatma Gandhi. Marches on political capitals often include formal processions. Gay Pride parades also started with this basis in New York City.\n\nProcessions used to mark the beginning or end of an event, such as parades at the beginning of county fairs or at the Olympic Games, or processions that begin and end funerals, graduations, and weddings.\n\nProcessions are found in almost every form of religious worship, such as Holy Week processions. Some biblical examples were the processions with the Ark of Covenant and the procession of Jesus on a donkey into Jerusalem.\n\nIn a narrower sense of going forth, proceeding, the term is used in the technical language of theology in the phrase Procession of the Holy Ghost, expressing the relation of the Third Person in the Triune Godhead to the Father and the Son.\n\nIt is impossible to describe in detail the vast development of processions during the Middle Ages. The most important and characteristic of these still have a place in the ritual of the Catholic Church, as well as those of the Church of England and the Orthodox Church.\n\nThe Procession Path (Lat. \"ambitus templi\") is the route taken by processions on solemn days in large churches—up the north aisle, round behind the high altar, down the south aisle, and then up the centre of the nave.\n\nTypically the procession commences with the phanarion (a lantern) followed by the cross, flanked by processional banners and icons, then choir and clergy, the deacons with censers, the priests with icons, and then the faithful. Hymns particular to the event are sung. Typically the outside of the church is circled thrice; however, some processions proceed to a designated place where a ceremony, \"e.g.\", a baptism or burial, is performed.\n\n\n\n\n\nFor the Roman Catholic Church, the rules governing them are laid down in the Rituale Romanum (Tit. ix.), and they are classified in the following way:\n\n\nThere are also processions of honor, for instance to meet a royal personage, or the bishop on his first entry into his diocese (Pontif. Tom. iii.).\n\nThose taking part in processions are to walk bare-headed (weather permitting), two and two, in decent costume, and with reverent mien; clergy and laity, men and women, are to walk separately. The cross is carried at the head of the procession, and banners embroidered with sacred pictures in places where this is customary; these banners must not be of military or triangular shape. Violet is the prescribed colour for processions, except on Corpus Christi, or on a day when some other colour is mandated. The officiating priest wears a cope, or at least a surplice with a violet stole, while other priests and clergy wear surplices.\n\nWhere the Host is carried in procession (often encased in a monstrance), it is covered always by a canopy, and accompanied by lights. At the \"litaniae majores\" and \"minores\" and other penitential processions, joyful hymns are not allowed, but the litanies are sung, and, if the length of the procession requires, the penitential and gradual psalms. As to the discipline regarding processions the bishop, according to the Council of Trent (Sess. 25 de reg. cap. 6), appoints and regulates processions and public prayers outside the churches.\n\nThe observance or variation of the discipline belongs to the Congregation of Rites; in pontifical processions, which are regulated by the masters of the ceremonies (\"magistri ceremoniarum pontificalium\"), these points are decided by the chief cardinal deacon. As to processions within the churches, some difference of opinion having arisen as to the regulating authority, the Congregation of Rites has decided that the bishop must ask, though not necessarily follow, the advice of the chapter in their regulation.\n\n\nThe Reformation abolished in all Protestant countries those processions associated with the doctrine of transubstantiation (Corpus Christi); the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, according to the 28th Article of Religion of the Church of England was not by Christ's ordinance reserved, carried about, lifted up, or worshiped. It also abolished those associated with the cult of the Blessed Virgin and the saints. The stern simplicity of Calvinism, indeed, would not tolerate religious processions of any kind, and from the Reformed Churches they vanished altogether. The more conservative temper of the Anglican and Lutheran communions, however, suffered the retention of such processions as did not conflict with the reformed doctrines, though even in these Churches they met with opposition and tended after a while to fall into disuse.\n\nLiturgical processions were revived in the Church of England by the members of the Oxford Movement during the 19th century. In \"Ritual Notes\", an Anglo-Catholic liturgical manual, it is stated that \"A solemn procession as part of the ceremony proper to the occasion, is ordered to be held respectively at Candlemas; on Palm Sunday; at the Rogations (i.e. on April 25th and the three days preceding Ascension); and on Corpus Christi ...\" \"A procession is a distinct act of worship in itself, though it is desirable (and accords with ancient practice) that it should have a definite purpose, such as to commemorate some notable event, or to honour the Blessed Sacrament\".\n\nThe Lutheran practice has varied at different times and in different countries. Thus, according to the Württemberg Kirchenordnung of 1553, a funeral procession was prescribed, the bier being followed by the congregation singing hymns; the Brandenburg Kirchenordnung (1540) directed a cross-bearer to precede the procession and lighted candles to be carried, and this was prescribed also by the Waldeck Kirchenordnung of 1556. At present funeral processions survive in general only in the country districts; the processional cross or crucifix is still carried. In some provinces also the Lutheran Church has retained the ancient rogation processions in the week before Whitsuntide and, in some cases, in the month of May or on special occasions (e.g. days of humiliation, Busstage), processions about the fields to ask a blessing on the crops. On these occasions the ancient litanies are still used.\n\nThe wealth of display associated with processions makes them a rich subject for literary and visual art. Some examples include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23864", "title": "Production car racing", "text": "Production car racing\n\nProduction car racing, showroom stock racing, street Stock, pure stock, and U-car racing are all categories of auto racing where unmodified (or very lightly modified) production cars race each other, outright and also in classes. \n\nCars usually have a protective roll cage and run race tires (either slicks or radials). Some freedoms are allowed, like gearbox coolers, giving the cars increased performance and components longevity. Production car racing, known in the US as \"showroom stock\", is an economical and rules restricted version of touring car racing.\n\nMany production racing categories are based on particular makes of cars. There are many Porsche and Audi racing series around the world. These are also called \"one make series\". Some series use a handicapped start, where the smaller cars are released up to 45 seconds ahead of the larger cars, and are slowly caught, the idea being that all the cars are together at the finish of the race. Many series follow the group N regulation with a few exceptions. There are several different series that have run all over the world, most notably, Japan's Super Taikyu and IMSA's Firehawk Series which ran between the 1980s to 1990s all over the United States.\n\nMajor races include the Bathurst 6 Hour, Bahrain 24 Hour, Dubai 24 Hour and Malaysian 12 Hour and sanctioned by organisations such as the FIA and SCCA. Normally using an entry level formula, it has grown into a stand-alone series, with national, state and club events and championships. The first NASCAR \"strictly stock\" race was held at Charlotte Speedway, on June 19, 1949. Where a racing class requires that the cars raced be production vehicles only slightly adapted for racing, manufacturers typically produce a limited run of such vehicles for public sale so that they can legitimately race them in the class. These cars are commonly called \"homologation specials\".\n\nIn British oval racing, the term \"production car racing\" has been used as an alternative for hot rods, as run in the West Country during the late 1960s to the mid-1970s, and a production car world championship race was held twice in the 1970s, won by Spence Morgan in 1974 and Ralph Sanders in 1975, both driving Ford Anglias. The West Country production cars were later reclassified as hot rods to come in line with the country's other promoters although this causes some confusion with the history of the West country racing as there was another class called hot rods that ran on those tracks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26707550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26707550", "title": "ROKS Cheonan sinking", "text": "ROKS Cheonan sinking\n\nThe ROKS \"Cheonan\" sinking occurred on 26 March 2010, when , a of the Republic of Korea Navy, carrying 104 personnel, sank off the country's west coast near Baengnyeong Island in the Yellow Sea, killing 46 seamen. The cause of the sinking remains in dispute, although overwhelming evidence points to North Korea.\n\nA South Korean-led official investigation carried out by a team of international experts from South Korea, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and Sweden presented a summary of its investigation on 20 May 2010, concluding that the warship had been sunk by a North Korean torpedo fired by a midget submarine. The conclusions of the report resulted in significant controversy within South Korea.\n\nNorth Korea denied that it was responsible for the sinking. North Korea's further offer to aid an open investigation was disregarded. China dismissed the official scenario presented by South Korea and the United States as not credible. An investigation by the Russian Navy also did not concur with the report. The United Nations Security Council made a Presidential Statement condemning the attack but without identifying the attacker.<ref name=\"UN-S/PRST/2010/13\"></ref>\n\nBaengnyeong Island is a South Korean island in the Yellow Sea, off the Ongjin peninsula in North Korea. It lies less than from the North Korean coast, and is over from the South Korean mainland. The island is to the south and west of the Northern Limit Line, the \"de facto\" maritime boundary dividing South Korea (ROK) from North Korea (DPRK).\n\nThe area is the site of considerable tension between the two states; although it was provided in the armistice agreement for the stalemate of the Korean war that the islands themselves belonged to the South, the sea boundary was not covered by the armistice, and the sea is claimed by the North.\n\nThe situation is further complicated by the presence of a rich fishing ground used by DPRK and Chinese fishing vessels, and there have been numerous clashes over the years between naval vessels from both sides attempting to police what both sides regard as their territorial waters. These have been referred to as \"crab wars\".\n\nIn late May 2010, Bruce Cumings, a University of Chicago expert on Korean affairs, commented that the sinking should be regarded as part of long-running tensions in a naval no-man's land. He noted a confrontation in November 2009 in which several North Korean sailors died, and an incident in 1999 when 30 North Koreans were killed and 70 wounded when their ship sank.\n\nIn both incidents, the North Koreans were the first to open fire. In the 1999 incident the South Koreans escalated matters by initiating a campaign of boat 'bumping' in order to stop what the South saw as a violation of its maritime borders. Considering these previous incidents, Cumings said that the \"Cheonan\" sinking was \"ripped out of context, the context of a continuing war that has never ended.\"\n\nGeneral Walter Sharp, Commander of the South Korea-U.S. Combined Forces Command at the time had, on 24 March, testified before the US House Appropriations Committee, in part, on the need to strengthen the ROK-U.S. alliance, the need for on-site advanced training of the Air Force, the need to improve the quality of life and provide tour normalization for troops serving one-year tours, planned relocation of bases, and the scheduled 2012 transition of Operational Control (OPCON) to ROK hands. He also warned of the possibility that North Korea could \"even launch an attack on the ROK.\"\n\nOn the night of the sinking, the U.S. and South Korean navies were engaged in joint anti-submarine warfare exercises 75 miles (121 km) away. This was part of the annual \"Key Resolve/Foal Eagle\" war exercise, described as \"one of the world's largest simulated exercises\", involving many U.S. and South Korean warships.\n\nOn Friday, 26 March 2010, an explosion was reported to have occurred near , a , near the stern of the ship at 9:22 pm local time (12:22 pm GMT/UTC). This caused the ship to break in half five minutes afterward, sinking at approximately 9:30 pm about off the south-west coast of Baengnyeong Island.\n\nSome initial reports suggested that the ship was hit by a North Korean torpedo, and that the South Korean vessel had returned fire. However, the South Korean Ministry of Defense stressed in the first press briefings after the sinking that there was \"no indication of North Korean involvement\". \"Cheonan\" was operating its active sonar at the time, which did not detect any nearby submarine. Several theories have subsequently been put forth by various agencies as to the cause of the sinking. Early reports also suggested that South Korean navy units had shot at an unidentified ship heading towards North Korea, but a defense official later said that this target may have been a flock of birds misidentified on radar.\n\nThe ship had a crew of 104 men at the time of sinking, and 58 crewmembers were rescued by 11:13 pm local time. The remaining 46 crew died.\n\nThe stern of \"Cheonan\" settled on its left side in deep water close to the site of the sinking, but the bow section took longer to sink and settled overturned in of water away with a small part of the hull visible above the water.\n\nInitially six South Korean navy and two South Korean coast guard ships assisted in the rescue as well as aircraft from the Republic of Korea Air Force. It was reported on March 27 that hopes of finding the 46 missing crew alive were fading. Survival time in the water was estimated at about two hours and large waves were hampering rescue attempts. After the sinking, President Lee said that recovery of survivors was the main priority. Air was pumped into the ship to keep any survivors alive.\n\nOver 24 military vessels were involved over course of the search-and-rescue effort, including four U.S. Navy vessels: , , , and .\n\nOn 30 March 2010 it was reported that one South Korean naval diver (ROKN UDT/SEAL CWO Han Ju-ho) had died after losing consciousness while searching for survivors, and another had been hospitalised.\n\nOn 3 April 2010, South Korean officials said that a private fishing boat involved in the rescue operations had collided with a Cambodian freighter, sinking the fishing boat and killing at least two people, with seven reported missing. The same day, the Joint Chiefs of Staff of South Korea said that the body of one of the 46 missing sailors had been found.\n\nLater on 3 April 2010 South Korea called off the rescue operation for the missing sailors, after families of the sailors asked for the operation to be suspended for fear of further casualties among the rescue divers. The military's focus then shifted towards salvage operations, which were predicted to take up to a month to complete.\n\nOn 15 April 2010, the stern section of the ship was winched from the seabed by a large floating crane, drained of water and placed on a barge for transportation to the Pyongtaek navy base. On 23 April 2010, the stack was recovered, and on 24 April the bow portion was raised. The salvaged parts were taken to Pyongtaek navy base for an investigation into the cause of the sinking by both South Korean and foreign experts.\n\nThe bodies of 40 personnel out of 46 who went down with the ship were recovered.\n\nAfter raising the ship, South Korea and the United States formed a joint investigative team to discover the cause of the sinking. Later South Korea announced that it intended to form an international group to investigate the sinking including Canada, Britain, Sweden and Australia.\n\nOn 16 April 2010, Yoon Duk-yong, co-chairman of the investigation team, said \"In an initial examination of \"Cheonan\"s stern, South Korean and U.S. investigators found no traces showing that the hull had been hit directly by a torpedo. Instead, we've found traces proving that a powerful explosion caused possibly by a torpedo had occurred underwater. The explosion might have created a bubble jet that eventually generated an enormous shock wave and caused the ship to break in two.\" Traces of an explosive chemical substance used in torpedoes, RDX, were later found in May 2010.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported on 19 May 2010, that a team of investigators from Sweden, Australia, Britain, and the United States had concluded that a North Korean torpedo sank the ship. The team found that the torpedo used was identical to a North Korean torpedo previously captured by South Korea. On 25 April 2010, the investigative team announced that the cause of the sinking was a non-contact underwater explosion.\n\nOn 7 May 2010, a government official said that a team of South Korean civilian and military experts had found traces of RDX, a high explosive more powerful than TNT and used in torpedoes. On 19 May 2010, the discovery of a fragment of metal containing a serial number similar to one on a North Korean torpedo salvaged by South Korea in 2003 was announced.\n\nIn their summary for the United Nations Security Council, the investigation group was described as the \"Joint Civilian-Military Investigation Group of the Republic of Korea with the participation of international experts from Australia, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States, and the Multinational Combined Intelligence Task Force, comprising the Republic of Korea, Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States,\" which consisted of \"25 experts from 10 top Korean expert agencies, 22 military experts, 3 experts recommended by the National Assembly, and 24 foreign experts constituting 4 support teams\".\n\nOn 20 May the South Korean-led investigation group released a summary of their report in which they concluded that the sinking of the warship was the result of a North Korean torpedo attack, commenting that \"The evidence points overwhelmingly to the conclusion that the torpedo was fired by a North Korean submarine.\" The inquiry also alleged that a group of small submarines, escorted by a support ship, departed from a North Korean naval base a few days before the sinking. The specific weapon used was alleged to be a North Korean manufactured CHT-02D torpedo, of which substantial parts were recovered.\n\nAccording to the \"Chosun Ilbo\", South Korean investigators told their journalists that they believe that one or two North Korean submarines, a and the other a , departed a naval base at Cape Bipagot accompanied by a support ship on 23 March 2010. One of the subs, according to the report, detoured around to the west side of Baengnyeong Island, arriving on 25 March 2010. There, it waited about under the ocean's surface in waters deep for \"Cheonan\" to pass by.\n\nInvestigators believe that the submarine fired the torpedo from about 3 km away. The attack appears to have been timed for a period when tidal forces in the area were slow. The North Korean vessels returned to port on 28 March 2010. Such detailed information on the North Korean submarine movements, and attack position, was not in the official summary or final report.\nThe torpedo parts recovered at the site of the explosion by a dredging ship on 15 May which include the 5×5 bladed contra-rotating propellers, propulsion motor and a steering section, was claimed to match the schematics of the CHT-02D torpedo included in introductory brochures provided to foreign countries by North Korea for export purposes. An incorrect, though similar, torpedo schematic had by mistake been shown at the televised RIG briefing for comparison with the recovered parts.\n\nThe correct schematic has never been made public. The markings in Hangul, which reads \"1번\" (or No. 1 in English), found inside the end of the propulsion section, is consistent with the marking of a previously obtained North Korean torpedo, but inconsistent with one found seven years ago, which is marked \"4호.\" Critics have pointed out that '호\" is the term used most often in the North, rather than \"번.\" Russian and Chinese torpedoes are marked in their respective languages. The CHT-02D torpedo manufactured by North Korea utilizes acoustic/wake homing and passive acoustic tracking methods.\n\nSimulations indicated that of TNT equivalent explosive at depth, to the port of the center line, would result in the damage seen to \"Cheonan\".\n\nThe full report had not been released to the public at this time, though the South Korean legislature was provided with a five-page synopsis of the report.\n\nA draft copy of the report was obtained by \"Time\" magazine in early August 2010, before the final report was released. According to \"Time\", the report assessed in detail ten possible alternative scenarios, with extensive discussion and explanation of why those ten were not possible. It finally settled on the eleventh explanation, which was a North Korean attack, which it said was a \"high possibility.\"\n\nIn support of this conclusion, the report says that witnesses had reported seeing flashes of light or sounds of an explosion, as well as that the US Navy analysis of the wreck concluded that a torpedo containing 250 kilograms of explosives had collided with \"Cheonan\" six to nine meters below the waterline. Damage to the hull supported this conclusion, while inconsistent with what would be expected if the ship had run aground or had been hit with a missile.\n\nOn 13 September 2010, the full report was released. It concluded that \"Cheonan\" had been sunk due to a torpedo explosion, which, while not having contacted the ship, exploded several meters from the hull of the ship and caused a shockwave and bubble effect of sufficient strength to severely damage and sink the ship.\nAccording to a survey conducted by Seoul National University's Institute for Peace and Unification Studies, less than one third of South Koreans trust the findings of the multinational panel. A later survey by the JoongAng Ilbo newspaper in 2011 found that 68 percent of South Koreans trusted the government's report that \"Cheonan\" was sunk by a North Korean submersible.\n\nLee Jung Hee, a lawmaker with the opposition Democratic Labor Party, was sued for defamation by seven people at South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff. Lee said during a speech in the national assembly that while the Defense Ministry had said there was no feed from a thermal observation device showing the moment the warship's stern and bow split apart, such a video did exist. Prosecutors then questioned Shin Sang-cheol, who served on the panel that investigated the incident and also runs Seoprise, over his assertion that \"Cheonan\" sank in an accident and that the evidence linking the North to the torpedo was tampered with.\n\nThe Defense Ministry asked the National Assembly to eject Shin from the panel for \"arousing public mistrust.\" Shin stated that he doubted the official conclusion on the sinking, saying that when he looked at the dead sailors' bodies, they bore no signs of an explosion. Shin wrote a letter addressed to US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton showing the evidence for his contention that the ship ran aground and then collided with another vessel.\n\nNear the end of May a team of Russian Navy submarine and torpedo experts visited South Korea to conduct an assessment of the South Korean led investigation. The team returned to Russia with samples for further physical-chemical analysis. No official statement on the assessment has been made. It was claimed that the assessment concluded \"Cheonan\" was not sunk by a North Korean bubble jet torpedo, but did not come to any firm conclusion about the cause of the sinking. \"The Hindu\" quoted a Russian Navy source stating that \"after examining the available evidence and the ship wreckage Russian experts came to the conclusion that a number of arguments produced by the international investigation in favour of the DPRK's involvement in the corvette sinking were not weighty enough”.\n\nOn 27 July 2010, \"The Hankyoreh\" published what it claimed was a detailed summary of the Russian Navy expert team's analysis. According to \"The Hankyoreh\", the Russian investigators concluded that \"Cheonan\" touched the sea floor and damaged one of its propellers prior to a non-contact explosion, possibly caused by setting off a mine while the ship was trying to maneuver into deeper water. Visual examination of the torpedo parts South Korea found purportedly indicated that it had been in the water for more than 6 months. On the following day South Korean officials responded with \"a full-scale refutation\".\n\nOn 3 August 2010 Russian UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin stated that his country's investigative report's conclusions into the sinking would not be made public. Withholding the investigation results was seen as insensitive by South Korea, but avoided political damage to a number of states.\n\nDuring talks between the American and Chinese governments in late May 2010, Chinese officials were reported by Yoichi Shimatsu, a commentator for the Chinese state-run CCTV-9, to have claimed that the sinking of \"Cheonan\" had been as a result of an American rising mine, which was moored to the seabed and propels itself into a ship detected by sound or magnetics, planted during anti-submarine exercises that were conducted by the South Korean and US navies shortly before the sinking. To back up their claims, the Chinese said that North Korean submarines such as the one believed to have sunk \"Cheonan\" were incapable of moving undetected within South Korean waters, and a rising mine would have damaged the ship by splitting the hull, as was done to \"Cheonan\", rather than simply holing the vessel as a conventional torpedo does. A conventional torpedo traveling at would also be completely destroyed upon impact, which was claimed to contradict the torpedo parts found later. (The original report, however, did not assert that a conventional torpedo strike had occurred, but rather that the torpedo had exploded underneath the ship, thus breaking its back. See above under Investigation.) \n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" journalist Peter Foster in a blog post noted that while not everyone (including Russia and China) was convinced of the truth of the international inquiry into the ROKS \"Cheonan\" sinking, some conspiracy theories and unanswered questions on the sinking, including one ascribing responsibility of the sinking to a rising mine deployed during a joint US-South Korean Foal Eagle anti-submarine exercises, ought to be read \"with a large pinch of salt.\"\n\nA separate investigation conducted by scientists at the University of Manitoba yielded results that conflict with the official investigation's findings. According to the leader of the investigation, residue on the hull of the ship that was claimed to have been aluminum oxide, which is a byproduct of explosions such as that of a torpedo, had a far higher ratio of oxygen to aluminum, leading the researchers to conclude that \"we cannot say that the substance adhering to the \"Cheonan\" was the explosion byproduct of aluminum oxide.\" The South Korean Ministry of Defense issued a rebuttal to the findings, saying, \"The detonation of explosives containing aluminum occurs within hundreds of thousandths of a second under high temperatures of more than 3,000 degrees Celsius and high pressures of more than 200,000 atm, and most of it becomes noncrystalline aluminum oxide.\"\n\nA report published online by \"Nature\" on 8 July 2010 noted several instances of groups or individuals disagreeing with the official report. The article also notes the rebuttal of those disagreements by analysts and government officials, with one analyst arguing that the sinking was \"consistent with North Korea's behaviour in the past.\"\n\nIn 2013, an academic paper was published analysing the available seismic data. It calculated that the sesmic data recorded would be accounted for by a TNT-equivalent charge, similar to the explosive yield of land control mines which had been abandoned in the vicinity.\nIn 2014, an academic paper was published analysing the spectra of the seismic signals and hydroacoustic reverberation waves generated. The paper found it doubtful that the vibrations of the water column were caused by an underwater explosion, instead finding that the recorded seismic spectra were consistent with the natural vibration frequencies of a large submarine with a length of around . This raised the possibility that the sinking was caused by a collision with a large submarine, rather than an explosion.\n\nSouth Korean President Lee Myung-bak convened an emergency meeting of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Orders were given to the military to concentrate on rescuing the survivors. In Seoul, police were put on alert. At the time, a spokesman for the South Korean military stated that there was no evidence that North Korea had been involved in the incident. A large group of relatives of the missing sailors protested outside the navy base at Pyeongtaek over the lack of information provided to them.\n\nOn 28 March relatives were taken to the site of the sunken vessel. Some relatives stated that survivors had claimed that the \"Cheonan\" had been in a poor state of repair. The Korean media have raised the issue of why the sister ship , which was operating nearby, did not come to the rescue of the sinking ship but instead fired shots at radar images which were later confirmed to be migratory birds.\n\nOn 5 April 2010, President Lee Myung-bak visited Baengnyeong Island. He reiterated that it was risky to speculate over the cause, and the joint military and civilian investigation team would determine the cause. He said, \"We have to find the cause in a way that satisfies not only our people but also the international community\". The president of South Korea has mourned the victims and said that he will respond \"resolutely\" to the sinking without yet laying blame for its cause.\n\nOn 24 May Lee Myung-bak said the South would \"resort to measures of self-defense in case of further military provocation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.\" He also supported readopting the official description of the North as the \"main enemy.\"\n\nSouth Korea pursued measures from the United Nations Security Council after the incident, although the language used in the country's statements towards such measures became progressively weaker. In announcements made soon after the sinking, the government said that any draft presented by South Korea would explicitly state that North Korea was responsible for the incident, but by early July, the language had been reduced to only referring to \"those responsible,\" in response to concerns from Russia.\n\nSince the incident, the South Korean government has been reluctant to engage in further diplomacy with North Korea over disputes such as North Korea's nuclear weapons program. In response to a request by China, in April 2011 South Korea agreed to talks, but South Korean government officials commented that an apology from North Korea for the sinking would probably be necessary to facilitate any significant progress in the dialogues.\n\nOn 2 May it was reported that South Korea's naval minister vowed \"retaliation\" against those responsible. Admiral Kim Sung-chan, at a publicly televised funeral for \"Cheonan\"s dead crew members in Pyeongtaek, stated that, \"We will not sit back and watch whoever caused this pain for our people. We will hunt them down and make them pay a bigger price.\"\n\nOn 4 May President Lee proposed \"extensive reformations\" for the South Korean military regarding the sinking incident. After the official report was released South Korea has said that it will take strong countermeasures against the North.\n\nOn 24 May 2010, South Korea announced it would stop nearly all its trade with North Korea as a result of the official report blaming North Korea for the sinking. South Korea also announced it would prohibit North Korean vessels from using its shipping channels. According to the \"New York Times\", the trade embargoes were \"the most serious action\" South Korea could take short of military action. The United States openly supported South Korea's decision. The embargo is expected to cost the North Korean economy roughly $200 million a year. The decision to cease trade was followed up with the United States and South Korea announcing they would conduct joint naval exercises in response to the sinking.\n\nThe South Korean military announced that it would resume psychological warfare directed at North Korea. This would include both loudspeaker and FM radio propaganda broadcasts across the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). Meanwhile, a North Korean military commander stated, “If South Korea establishes new psychological warfare services, we will fire against them in order to eliminate them,” according to a report carried by the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA).\n\nSouth Korea began propaganda broadcasts into North Korea by radio on 25 May. North Korea responded by putting its troops on high alert, and severed most remaining ties and communications with South Korea in response to what it called a \"smear campaign\" by Seoul. South Korean military propaganda FM broadcasts were resumed at 18:00 (local time) starting with the song \"HuH\" by K-pop band 4minute.\n\nAs part of the propaganda broadcasts, South Korea reinstalled loudspeakers at eleven places along the DMZ. There was originally a plan to also use electronic signs, although due to cost, the plan was reportedly being reconsidered. On 13 June, South Korean media announced that the South Korean Defense Minister, Kim Tae-young, had said that anti-North Korea broadcasts were planned to resume after the United Nations Security Council took action against North Korea in response to the sinking of \"Cheonan\".\n\nDiscourse over the events leading to the sinking of \"Cheonan\" was tightly controlled by the South Korean government in the months after the incident. On 8 May 2010, a former senior presidential secretary who served under Roh Moo-hyun, Park Seon-won, was charged with libel by South Korea's Defense Minister, Kim Tae-young, over comments he made during a 22 April interview on MBC radio asking for greater disclosure from the military and government. Park Seon-won's response to the charge was: \"I asked for the disclosure of information for a transparent and impartial investigation into the cause of the \"Cheonan\" sinking;\" he added that \"the libel suit seeks to silence public suspicion over the incident.\"\n\nSouth Korea's Minister of Public Administration and Security, Maeng Hyung-kyu, announced on 20 May 2010 that the government was stepping up efforts to prosecute people who spread \"groundless rumors\" over the internet: \"Anyone who makes false reports or articles about the incident could seriously damage national security. We will not let these be the basis of any risks the nation faces.\" Moreover, he announced the government would step up efforts to prevent \"illegal gatherings\" regarding the sinking of \"Cheonan\".\n\nA South Korean military oversight board, the Board of Inspection and Audit, has accused senior South Korean naval leaders of lying and hiding information. Said the board, \"Military officers deliberately left out or distorted key information in their report to senior officials and the public because they wanted to avoid being held to account for being unprepared.\"\n\nIn 2013, a documentary film named \"Project Cheonan Ship\" was released in South Korea about the sinking, including a number of possible alternative causes for the sinking. Members and relatives of the South Korean navy sought a court injunction to block the film’s release on the basis that the film distorted the facts. The injunction was denied in court, however, a major cimema chain, Megabox, withdrew the film after warnings from conservative groups that they planned to picket showings the film.\n\nNorth Korea's Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) released an official response to the investigation on 28 May 2010, asserting, amongst other things, that it is unbelievable that part of a torpedo doing so much damage to a ship would survive: \nBesides, the assertion that the screw shaft and engine remained undamaged and unchanged in shape is also a laughing shock. Even U.S. and British members of the international investigation team, which had blindly backed the South Korean regime in its 'investigation', were perplexed at the exhibit in a glass box.\n\nOn 17 April 2010, it was reported that North Korea officially denied having had anything to do with the sinking, responding to what it referred to as \"The puppet military warmongers, right-wing conservative politicians and the group of other traitors in South Korea\". An article from KCNA entitled \"Military Commentator Denies Involvement in Ship Sinking\" stated that the event was an accident.\n\n... we have so far regarded the accident as a regretful accident that should not happen in the light of the fact that many missing persons and most of rescued members of the crew are fellow countrymen forced to live a tiresome life in the puppet army.\n\nOn 21 May 2010, North Korea offered to send their own investigative team to review the evidence compiled by South Korea, and the Hankyoreh quoted Kim Yeon-chul, professor of unification studies at Inje University, commenting on the offer: \"It is unprecedented in the history of inter-Korean relations for North Korea to propose sending an investigation team in response to an issue that has been deemed a 'military provocation by North Korea,'\"and thus \"The \"Cheonan\" situation has entered a new phase.\"\n\nNorth Korea also warned of a wide range of hostile reactions to any move by South Korea to hold it accountable for the sinking.\n\nIf the South puppet group comes out with 'response' and 'retaliation', we will respond strongly with ruthless punishment including the total shutdown of North-South ties, abrogation of the North-South agreement on non-aggression and abolition of all North-South cooperation projects.\n\nOn 24 May, new reports indicated Kim Jong-il had ordered the armed forces of North Korea to be ready for combat a week before. The next day, North Korea released a list of measures that it will take in response to South Korea's sanctions. This would include the cutting of all ties and communications, except for the Kaesong industrial complex. They would revert to a wartime footing in regard to South Korea and disallow any South Korean ships or aircraft to enter the territory of North Korea.\n\nOn 27 May, North Korea announced that it would scrap an agreement aimed at preventing accidental naval clashes with South Korea. It also announced that any South Korean vessel found crossing the disputed maritime border would be immediately attacked.\n\nOn 28 May, KCNA stated that \"it is the United States that is behind the case of \"Cheonan\". The investigation was steered by the U.S. from its very outset.\" It also accused the United States of manipulating the investigation and named the administration of US President Barack Obama directly of using the case for \"escalating instability in the Asia-Pacific region, containing big powers and emerging unchallenged in the region.\"\n\nOn 29 May, North Korea warned the United Nations to be wary of evidence presented in the international investigation, likening the case to the claims of weapons of mass destruction that the United States used to justify its war against Iraq in 2003 and stated that \"the U.S. is seriously mistaken if it thinks it can occupy the Korean Peninsula just as it did Iraq with sheer lies.\" The North Korea foreign minister warned the United Nations Security Council of risks of being \"misused\". It also accused the United States of joining South Korea in putting \"China into an awkward position and keep hold on Japan and South Korea as its servants.\"\n\nHigh ranking North Korean military officials denounced the international investigation and said North Korea does not have the type of submarines that supposedly carried out the attack. They also dismissed claims regarding writings on the torpedo and clarified that \"when we put serial numbers on weapons, we engrave them with machines.\" South Korea's Yonhap News Agency quoted South Korean officials as saying that North Korea has about ten of the .\n\nOn 2 November, KCNA published a detailed rebuttal of the South Korean joint investigative team report.\n\nThe \"Rodong Sinmun\" claimed that the \"probability of a torpedo attack on (the) Cheonan Warship\" was 0%.\n\nWhen the official report on the sinking was released on 20 May there was widespread international condemnation of North Korea's actions. China was one of few exceptions, simply terming the incident \"unfortunate\" and \"urged stability on the peninsula\". This was speculated to be China's concern for instability in the Korean Peninsula.\n\nOn 14 June 2010, South Korea presented the results of its investigation to United Nations Security Council members.<ref name=\"UN-S/2010/281\"></ref> In a subsequent meeting with council members North Korea stated that it had nothing to do with the incident.<ref name=\"UN-S/2010/294\"></ref> On 9 July 2010 the United Nations Security Council made a Presidential Statement condemning the attack but without identifying the attacker. China had resisted U.S. calls for a tougher line against North Korea.\n\nA member of the North Korean cabinet who defected to the south in 2011 said on 7 December 2012 that the crew of the North Korean submarine which sank \"Cheonan\" had been honored by the North Korean military and government. The defector, known by the alias \"Ahn Cheol-nam\", stated that the captain, co-captain, engineer, and boatswain of the mini-sub which sank \"Cheonan\" had been awarded \"Hero of the DPRK\" in October 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3204006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3204006", "title": "Silver Spring monkeys", "text": "Silver Spring monkeys\n\n\"Not to be confused with the feral monkeys in Silver Springs, Florida.\"\n\nThe Silver Spring monkeys were 17 wild-born macaque monkeys from the Philippines who were kept in the Institute for Behavioral Research in Silver Spring, Maryland. From 1981 until 1991, they became what one writer called the most famous lab animals in history, as a result of a battle between animal researchers, animal advocates, politicians, and the courts over whether to use them in research or release them to a sanctuary. Within the scientific community, the monkeys became known for their use in experiments into neuroplasticity—the ability of the adult primate brain to reorganize itself.\n\nThe monkeys had been used as research subjects by Edward Taub, a psychologist, who had cut afferent ganglia that supplied sensation to the brain from their arms, then used arm slings to restrain either the good or deafferented arm to train them to use the limbs they could not feel. In May 1981, Alex Pacheco of the animal-rights group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) began working undercover in the lab, and alerted police to what PETA viewed as unacceptable living conditions for the monkeys. In what was the first police raid in the U.S. against an animal researcher, police entered the Institute and removed the monkeys, charging Taub with 17 counts of animal cruelty and failing to provide adequate veterinary care. He was convicted on six counts; five were overturned during a second trial, and the final conviction was overturned on appeal in 1983, when the court ruled that Maryland's animal cruelty legislation did not apply to federally funded laboratories.\n\nThe ensuing battle over the monkeys' custody saw celebrities and politicians campaign for the monkeys' release, an amendment in 1985 to the Animal Welfare Act, the transformation of PETA from a group of friends into a national movement, the creation of the first North American Animal Liberation Front cell, and the first animal research case to reach the United States Supreme Court. In July 1991, PETA's application to the Supreme Court for custody was rejected. Days later, the last two monkeys were killed after veterinarians determined they were suffering and should be euthanized.\n\nDuring the subsequent dissection of the monkeys, it was discovered that significant cortical remapping had occurred, suggesting that being forced to use limbs with no sensory input had triggered changes in their brains' organization. This evidence of the brain's plasticity helped overturn the widely held view that the adult brain cannot reorganize itself in response to its environment. After five years of receiving death threats and being unable to find a research position, Taub was offered a grant by the University of Alabama, where he developed a new form of therapy, based on the concept of neuroplasticity, for people disabled as a result of brain damage. Known as constraint-induced movement therapy, it has helped stroke survivors regain the use of limbs paralysed for many years, and has been hailed by the American Stroke Association as at the forefront of a revolution.\n\nEdward Taub (born 1931) is a behavioral neuroscientist currently based at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. He became interested in behaviorism while studying philosophy at Columbia University, and went on to study under Fred Keller and Wiliam N. Schoenfeld, the experimental psychologists. He took a job as a research assistant in a neurology lab to gain more understanding of the nervous system, and became involved in deafferentation experiments with monkeys.\n\nAn \"afferent nerve\" is a sensory nerve that conveys impulses from the skin and other sensory organs to the spine and the brain. \"Deafferentation\" is a surgical procedure in which the spinal cord is opened up and the sensory nerves cut so that these impulses do not reach the brain. A monkey whose limbs have been deafferented will not feel them, or even be able to sense where they are in space. At his trial in 1981, Taub told the court that deafferented monkeys are notoriously difficult to look after, because they regard their deafferented limbs as foreign objects, mutilating them and trying to chew them off. Taub continued working with deafferented monkeys at New York University, where he obtained his Ph.D. in 1970. Engaged in what he saw at first as pure research, he conducted several kinds of deafferentation experiments. He deafferented monkeys' entire bodies, so that they could feel no part of themselves. He deafferented them at birth. He removed monkey fetuses from the uterus, deafferented them, then returned them to be born with no sense of their own bodies.\n\nWhen Taub began his research in the neurology lab, the prevalent view was that monkeys would not be able to use limbs they could not feel. Norman Doidge writes that Taub wondered whether the reason the monkeys abandoned use of the deafferented limbs was simply that they were still able to use their good ones. He tested his idea by deafferenting one arm of a monkey and restraining the good arm in a sling. The monkey subsequently used its deafferented arm to feed and move itself around. He reasoned that, if a monkey refused to use a deafferented arm because it could rely on its good arm, then deafferenting both arms would force the monkey to use them, a finding that seemed paradoxical, but which his experiments confirmed. He even deafferented the entire spinal cord, so that the monkey received no sensory input from any of its limbs, but it still used them. Doidge writes that Taub had an epiphany, guessing that the reason the monkeys would not use their deafferented limbs was simply because they had learned not to, an idea he called \"learned non-use.\"\n\nAlex Pacheco (born 1958) was a graduate student at George Washington University when he volunteered in May 1981 to work as a research assistant in Taub's lab. \"The Washington Post\" writes that he was raised in Mexico, the son of a doctor, and wanted to become a priest. He took a tour of a slaughterhouse in the 1970s and said it changed his life; he read Peter Singer's \"Animal Liberation\" (1975), stopped eating meat, and became an animal rights activist. He worked on the anti-whaling ship, the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, joined the Hunt Saboteurs Association in England, and when he returned to the United States to study political science at George Washington, he teamed up with Ingrid Newkirk, a local poundmaster, to form People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals in March 1980. The point of taking the research position in Taub's lab was to gain firsthand experience of what happens in animal research laboratories, so he looked through a list of government-funded labs and chose the one nearest his home in Takoma Park. Taub offered him an unpaid position and put him to work with a student, Georgette Yakalis.\n\nInside the Institute for Behavioral Research, Taub was conducting deafferentation experiments on 16 male crab-eating macaques (\"Macaca fascicularis\"), and one female rhesus macaque (\"Macaca mulatta\"), each about 14 inches tall, all born wild in the Philippines. Each monkey lived alone in a wire cage measuring 18  x 18 inches, with no bedding, no food bowl, and no environmental enrichment, the cages kept in a windowless room measuring 15 ft square. Pacheco writes that 12 of the 17 monkeys had had one or both arms deafferented, while according to the \"Laboratory Primate Newsletter\" 10 had undergone deafferentation, the seven others acting as the control group.\n\nThe researchers had named the monkeys Chester, Paul, Billy, Hard Times, Domitian, Nero, Titus, Big Boy, Augustus, Allen, Montaigne, Sisyphus, Charlie, Brooks, Hayden, Adidas, and Sarah. Sarah, the lone female, was a control subject, which meant she had been left intact. She had been purchased from a dealer, Litton Laboratories, when she was one day old, and had lived since then, for eight years, in the Institute. Paul was the eldest. He had had one arm deafferented. He had chewed off all the fingers on that hand and pulled the skin and flesh off the palm, exposing the bone. Billy had undergone surgery to deafferent both arms, and used his feet to pick up food pellets.\n\nPacheco wrote that he found the monkeys living in filthy conditions. He found frozen monkey corpses in a refrigerator, and others floating in formaldehyde. He alleged that, in the surgery room, human and monkey records were scattered everywhere, including under the operating table, while soiled clothes, old shoes, rat droppings, and urine covered the floor, with cockroaches in the drawers, on the floor, and around the scrub sink. He said the wires of the cages were caked in filth, with feces piled in the bottom of the cages, and urine and rust on every surface, with the 17 monkeys picking at scraps of food that had fallen through the wire floor of the cages into the waste tray below. He alleged that the cages had not been cleaned for months, that there were no dishes to keep the food away from the feces, and that there was nothing for the monkeys to sit on but the cages' wire bottoms. He wrote that 12 of the monkeys had deafferented limbs, with 39 of their fingers deformed or missing. He described them as neurotic, attacking their deafferented limbs as though they were foreign objects:\n\nPacheco decided to document the conditions in the lab. He told Taub he wanted to work at night, and took photographs that showed the monkeys' living conditions. He showed them in July to animal rights activists, including Cleveland Amory, who gave him money for a better camera and some walkie-talkies, so that a look-out outside could alert him if visitors arrived unexpectedly. He also asked Peter Hamilton of the Vancouver-based Lifeforce Foundation to assist with the investigation. In August, Pacheco began inviting veterinarians and scientists into the lab to witness the conditions. According to \"The Washington Post\", Geza Teleki, a primatologist at George Washington University, wrote that he had never seen a lab so poorly maintained, and psychologist Donald Barnes, a former primate researcher, wrote that it was a \"miserable and unhealthful environment for the primates\" and a health hazard for humans. One local veterinarian, Richard Weitzman, agreed that the lab was very dirty, but said the monkeys seemed well fed and \"in pretty good health\".\n\nPacheco reported the situation to the Montgomery County police, who raided the laboratory on September 11, 1981 under Maryland's Prevention of Cruelty to Animals law. PETA tipped off the media beforehand, so that the raid was witnessed by several reporters and a camera crew, to the irritation of the police. The officers later testified that the monkeys were living in filthy conditions. Richard Swain, who led the raid, told \"The Washington Post\" in 1991: \"It was absolutely filthy, just incredibly dirty, like nothing I've ever been in. I've executed lots and lots of search warrants. I've worked in murder, in narcotics, in vice, but this was the first time I went into a room and I felt legitimately concerned for my health just being there.\" Taub was charged with 17 counts of animal cruelty and failing to provide adequate veterinary care.\n\nThe police removed the monkeys from the lab to the basement of a house in Rockville owned by Lori Kenealy of the local humane society. Peter Carlson writes in \"The Washington Post\" that they were given toys, groomed with toothbrushes by the activists, watched 24 hours a day, and allowed to watch daytime soap operas. In the meantime, Taub's lawyers went to court and demanded their return, and ten days after the raid a judge granted the request. And suddenly, Carlson writes, the monkeys disappeared. Kenealy was not at home when it happened, and insisted she knew nothing about it. Richard Swain, who had led the police raid, arrested her and put her in the local jail overnight. PETA was told there could be no legal action against Taub without the monkeys as evidence. Carlson writes that, just as suddenly as they had disappeared, they were returned five days later, this time with Spanish moss in their cages after a holiday in Florida, according to the activists. After another brief stand-off, the monkeys were returned to Taub.\n\nTaub said he had been set up. He said his laboratory had been clean when he left on vacation, but that Pacheco had failed to clean the cages, had neglected the animals, then subjected the laboratory to false reports of cruelty. During Taub's vacation that August, which lasted over two weeks, on seven different days in which the animals were supposed to have been fed and the cage area cleaned, the two caretakers failed to show up for work. Taub estimated the probability of seven absences in that 2.5 week period at seven in a trillion based on the previous 14 months of attendance records from the workers. On three of those absentee days, Pacheco brought people in to look at the monkeys. Taub's research assistant, John Kunz, a graduate student, said it was simply that the caretakers took advantage of Taub's absence to have a holiday of their own.\n\nDuring the trial in October and November 1981 of Taub and Kunz, Taub told the court—as reported by \"The Baltimore Sun\"—that the monkeys had been given \"gentle\" treatment, and had what he called a \"remarkable record of health.\" He acknowledged that they had not been seen by a veterinarian in the previous two years, because he was an expert himself in the treatment of deafferented monkeys. Responding to the images of the monkeys with open sores and decaying bandages, he said that using salves, ointments, and bandages is more dangerous than leaving the conditions untreated; monkeys feel no pain from the deafferented limbs and learn to ignore them, he said, whereas drawing attention to the wounds with salves or bandages would cause the animals to bite or claw at them. Bandages might be necessary where the wounds had grown out of control, or where there was massive infection, and it was sometimes better to let the bandages deteriorate, he said. Taub also testified that some of the photographs Pacheco took had been staged for dramatic effect. Norman Doidge wrote in 2007 that, according to Taub, the monkeys in the photographs had been placed in positions that were not part of the laboratory procedure, a claim Pacheco denied. As for the dirt, Taub said \"monkey rooms are dirty places,\" and that it was normal in laboratories for fecal matter to lie on the floor and food to drop through the cage bottoms into waste trays. He said employees had used brooms and mops on the floor, and had emptied the waste trays nearly every day. He said the monkeys had been given fresh fruit twice a week, and that he disagreed with the veterinarians who testified for the prosecution that the female monkey, Sarah, was underweight.\n\nThe National Institutes of Health (NIH), which had financed Taub's research, suspended his $115,000 research grant. It initiated its own investigation, and sent the Office for the Protection from Research Risks (OPRR) to assess Taub's lab. OPRR found that the lab's animal care failed in significant ways, and concluded that it was grossly unsanitary. Based on the OPRR investigation, NIH suspended the remaining funding for the experiments, over $200,000, because of violations of its animal care guidelines. William Raub and Joe Held, officials at NIH, wrote in the \"Neuroscience Newsletter\" in April 1983 that deafferented monkeys kept at NIH since May 1981, and subjected to the same surgical procedures, had not developed lesions comparable to those in five of the deafferented monkeys from Taub's lab. \"Based on these observations,\" they wrote, \"it would appear that fractures, dislocations, lacerations, punctures, contusions, and abrasions with accompanying infection, acute and chronic inflammation, and necrosis are not the inevitable consequences of deafferentation.\" After the appeal, according to Doidge writing in 2007, 67 professional societies made representations on Taub's behalf, and the NIH reversed its decision not to fund his research. In 1991 neuroscientist David Hubel, referring to both the Silver Spring monkeys case and a PETA film about the University of Pennsylvania's head injury clinic in 1984, said the science was sound, that the people involved were not cruel, and that at the time there was a \"laxness of standards\" in animal care that, he wrote, would hardly be conceivable today.\n\nAccording to Peter Carlson, every aspect of the case was disputed by experts on both sides during the first trial in October 1981. The prosecution said that Taub's lab was filthy and unhealthy, and federal inspection reports and witnesses supported the charge. Taub said the lab was no dirtier than any other, and he also produced federal inspection reports and witnesses to support his position. Veterinarians speaking for the prosecution said Taub's failure to bandage the monkeys' wounds was a threat to their health; veterinarians for the defense, including two who had worked with monkeys whose limbs had been deafferented, said bandaging them would cause the animals to attack the limbs. Carlson writes that the prosecution produced 70 photographs of dirty conditions and injured monkeys, while researchers who had worked in the lab testified for the defense that they had never seen the lab looking like that. The judge—District Court Judge Stanley Klavan—found Taub guilty of six counts of cruelty to animals for failing to provide adequate veterinary care in respect of six of the monkeys, and acquitted him of the other 11 charges against him. He fined Taub $3,000. The laboratory assistant, John Kunz, was acquitted of all 17 charges.\n\nTaub managed to secure a second trial in June 1982. After three weeks at the Montgomery County Circuit Court, a jury acquitted him of five of the convictions, and upheld the sixth charge of inadequate veterinary care of Nero, whose wounds were such that an NIH veterinarian later amputated his deafferented arm. Taub was fined $500. The sixth charge was set aside on appeal, when the court ruled that Maryland's Prevention of Cruelty to Animals law did not apply to federally funded laboratories.\n\nAfter the monkeys were returned to Taub's custody, they were transferred to an NIH facility. They were later removed to the Tulane Regional Primate Research Center in Covington, Louisiana, still under the care and control of the NIH. Two primate sanctuaries, Moorpark College in California and Primarily Primates in Texas, offered them a permanent home, but the NIH refused to release them.\n\nThey were moved by the NIH to the Delta Primate Center in June 1986, where animal rights activists, who had been able to visit and groom the animals at the previous center, were told they could no longer see them. In 1987, the custodians of 14 of the remaining monkeys recommended that eight of them be euthanized, because they were judged to be beyond hope of resocialization. A lawsuit filed by PETA and others sought to block euthanasia and transfer the animals to a facility under their control. The New England Anti-Vivisection Society and PETA ran ads in \"The New York Times\" on December 26, 1989, \"The Washington Post\" on December 27, and in \"The Washington Times\" on January 3, 1990, asking President Bush to save the monkeys, and concerned citizens to petition the White House. After the court denied custody to PETA, two of the monkeys, Titus and Allen, were kept for the National Institutes of Health at a Tulane University primate center, where they were later euthanized.\n\nThe NIH had said in 1987 that no further invasive research would be conducted on the monkeys, but in fact further experiments were performed on them in 1990. NIH presented the experiments in the lawsuit for custody of the animals in 1989. It proposed to perform deep surgical anesthesia during all procedures followed by euthanasia. After euthanasia, tissue examination would continue. The court allowed a group of researchers from the NIH to conduct a terminal experiment on January 14, 1990 on one of the monkeys who had become ill. Under anesthesia, electrodes were placed in his brain and hundreds of recordings taken. The \"Laboratory Primate Newsletter\" said it revealed an \"unprecedented degree of reorganization of the sensory cortex. An 8–10-millimeter-wide area that would normally receive input from the hand was found to have completely filled in with input from the face.\" Brainmapping studies were conducted on the remaining monkeys on July 6, 1990, three days after PETA's application for custody was rejected. The monkeys were subsequently euthanized. During these experiments, scientists discovered an unpredicted change in thalamus structure apparently caused by progressive nerve degeneration through the dorsal root ganglia (which were severed) and the dorsal columns all the way to the thalamus (a second order synaptic target).\n\nBased in part on his work with the Silver Spring monkeys, Taub went on to develop novel physical therapy techniques to help stroke victims, and those with other forms of brain injury, regain the use of affected limbs. The American Stroke Association regards Taub's therapy, known as constraint-induced movement therapy (CI), as \"at the forefront of a revolution\" in the treatment of stroke survivors. With CI therapy, the patient is forced to use the affected limb, to whatever minimal extent he can, by having the unaffected one restrained. The affected limb is then used intensively for three to six hours each day for at least two weeks. As a result of engaging in repetitive movements with the affected limb, the brain grows new neural pathways that control the limb's use, as a result of which stroke victims who were seriously disabled for many years have reportedly regained the use of limbs that were almost completely paralysed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57789419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57789419", "title": "Sugarloaf Fire", "text": "Sugarloaf Fire\n\nThe Sugarloaf Fire is a wildfire currently burning near Silverthorne, Colorado in Grand County in the United States. The fire has burned a total of 1,280 acres as of August 14, 2018. It is currently 35% contained.\n\nThe Sugarloaf Fire started near Ute Pass.\n\nOn June 28, 2018, at around 12:00 A.M, the fire started 13 miles southwest of Fraser, CO. Through June, the Sugarloaf Fire continued to spread.\nThe fire reached its peak at at around July 3, 2018 and was at 35% contained.\n\nOn July 12, 2018, Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper signed an executive order sentencing the Sugarloaf Fire to death.\n\nThe fire stopped its spread and stayed the same.\n\nThere are no evacuations currently in effect due to the wildfire.\n"}
{"id": "4266246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4266246", "title": "Teatro Argentina", "text": "Teatro Argentina\n\nThe Teatro Argentina is an opera house and theatre located in Largo di Torre Argentina, a square in Rome, Italy. One of the oldest theatres in Rome, it was constructed in 1731 and inaugurated on 31 January 1732 with \"Berenice\" by Domenico Sarro. It is built over part of the curia section of the Theatre of Pompey. This curia was the location of the assassination of Julius Caesar.\n\nThe house was commissioned by the Sforza-Cesarini family and designed by the architect Gerolamo Theodoli with the auditorium laid out in the traditional horseshoe shape. Duke Francesco Sforza-Cesarini, who ran the Argentina Theatre from 1807 to 1815, was a \"theatre fanatic\" who continued until his death to run up debts. Rossini's \"The Barber of Seville\" was given its premiere on 20 February 1816, just after Duke Francesco's death and, in the 19th century, the premieres of many notable operas took place in the theatre, including Verdi's \"I due Foscari\" on 3 November 1844 and \"La battaglia di Legnano\" on 27 January 1849.\n\nFrom 1919 to 1944, more musical offerings than dramatic ones were presented, although the theatre premiered works by Luigi Pirandello, Henrik Ibsen and Maxim Gorky during this time. As well, a series of operas was presented in the winter of 1944-45 in honor of the American and British troops.\n\nThe venue was used for classical-music recordings by the Santa Cecilia orchestra in the 1950s. \n\nIn 1994, the theatre became the home of the Teatro Stabile company of Rome, currently directed by Mario Martone. It offers a variety of programmes, some being large-scale productions, although more plays than music or opera are presented today.\n\nThe inside of the theatre is constructed of wood with six levels of boxes characterizing the design, and has been restored many times. It seats 696 people, including 344 in the stalls and with 40 boxes on five levels seating an additional 352.\n\nPlantamura notes that the theatre's acoustics were regarded as being excellent and that the architect who designed the La Fenice opera house in Venice, Gianantonio Selva, modeled his design after the Argentina.\nIn the novel \"The Count of Monte Cristo\" by Alexandre Dumas, the Teatro Argentina was the setting for an important scene during a performance of \"Parisina\" by Gaetano Donizetti.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "24725574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24725574", "title": "The Face of Jizo", "text": "The Face of Jizo\n\n\nThe play Chichi to Kuraseba \"(Living with my Father)\" is published by Shinchosha in 2001.\n\nThe play was transferred into three languages and published by Komatsuza.\n\nThe play is recorded for a CD with starring Tomoko Saito and Kei Masu, published by Shinchosha, on April 25, 2003.\n\nThe play is adapted for a film \"Chichi to Kuraseba\" directed by Kazuo Kuroki, starring by Rie Miyazawa, Yoshio Harada and Tadanobu Asano, in 2004. It was filmed as the 3rd and concluding volume of Kazuo Kuroki's \"Trilogy works for War Requiem\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24912635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24912635", "title": "The Star (Bangladesh)", "text": "The Star (Bangladesh)\n\nThe Star is a weekly current affairs magazine published as a supplement to \"The Daily Star\", Bangladesh's largest circulated English newspaper. The magazine is increasingly seen to promote liberal, progressive and secular values in the country, keeping line with the ideals of the Bangladesh Liberation War. Aasha Mehreen Amin serves as editor of the magazine, Ahmede Hussain is its Assistant Editor.\n\n"}
{"id": "50082413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50082413", "title": "Tristan Foison", "text": "Tristan Foison\n\nTristan Foison (born 6 November 1961) is a French musician and composer. He is most famous for attempting to claim a composition by Alfred Desenclos as his own, but actually fabricated many details about his life.\n\nFoison was born and raised in France. He was adopted by Michele Foison, a professional musician and student of Olivier Messiaen. He learned to play the Ondes Martenot and later tried to study it at the Conservatoire de Paris, but was rejected. Tristan Foison then studied first at the Conservatoire à Rayonnement Régional de Boulogne-Billancourt and from 1985 at the Conservatoire Saint-Maur-des-Fossés. He now lives near Paris.\n\nHe claimed to have won the Peabody Mason International Piano Competition, the Geneva International Music Competition and the Georges Bizet Competition, as well as conducted orchestras including London Symphony Orchestra, the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra, the Prague Symphony Orchestra or the Orchestre de Paris. He also claimed to have been chosen by Vladimir Ashkenazy to perform with him the \"Concerto for 2 Pianos\" by Mozart with the Paris Orchestra in 1987. Later that year, he emigrated to the US and settled in Atlanta. He made his living as a musician, worked at the Peggy Still School of Music and was music director of the Rome Symphony Orchestra in Rome, Georgia. He performed in concerts on the piano and the Ondes Martenot and composed classical music.\n\n\nOn 18 May 1999 the \"Requiem\" by Tristan Foison was performed by the Capitol Hill Chorale of Washington, D.C. and was marked as the world premiere of the composition, which Tristan Foison claimed to have written. The \"Requiem\" was recognised immediately in the concert as plagiarism, because a person from the audience had sung the work a year earlier with his chorus and knew that it was composed by French composer Alfred Desenclos. After verification, Foison was confronted by the choral director. Shortly after this talk he vanished from the classical music scene. All known biographical information comes from his curriculum vitae.\n\nAfter the discovery of the Desenclos fraud, journalists checked his CV. They found that the following other claims were false:\n\n"}
{"id": "527703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=527703", "title": "USS Maddox (DD-731)", "text": "USS Maddox (DD-731)\n\nUSS \"Maddox\" (DD-731), an was named for Captain William A. T. Maddox, of the United States Marine Corps. She was laid down by the Bath Iron Works Corporation at Bath in Maine on 28 October 1943, launched on 19 March 1944 by Mrs. Harry H. Wilhoit, granddaughter of Captain Maddox, and commissioned on 2 June 1944.\n\n\"Maddox\" screened the ships of the Fast Carrier Task Force during strikes against enemy targets in the western Pacific where she was struck by an enemy Japanese \"kamikaze\" aircraft off Formosa on 21 January 1945. She also covered the Marine landings at Okinawa, and operated with the 7th Fleet in support of United Nations Forces during the Korean War. \"Maddox\" participated in the Blockade of Wonsan, an 861-day siege bombardment of the city.\n\nAfter 1953, she alternated operations along the west coast of the United States and in Hawaiian waters, with regular deployments to the western Pacific with the Seventh Fleet. \"Maddox\" departed Long Beach 13 March 1964. At first steaming with fast carrier groups in the Sea of Japan and the East China Sea, she headed south 18 May and established patrol off the coast of South Vietnam. During August she was involved in a skirmish with North Vietnamese torpedo boats, the \"Maddox\" incident, which led to the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution and increased U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War.\n\nFollowing shakedown and antisubmarine exercises, \"Maddox\" departed Boston on 27 August for Norfolk, Virginia en route to the Pacific. Arriving at Ulithi 21 October 1944, she was assigned to Fast Carrier TG 38.1 of the 3d Fleet. As a member of this task group, \"Maddox\" took part in the preparation and the covering operations for the Mindoro and Luzon invasions, 4 November 1944 to 21 January 1945. During this period she served in the screen and on picket station in the South and East China Seas, while carrier-based planes struck air and naval bases from Saigon to Formosa. Hit by a \"kamikaze\" off Formosa on 21 January 1945, \"Maddox\" headed for Ulithi for repairs. Departing on 14 March, the destroyer steamed off the Japanese home islands where she was on picket station during the air strikes on Kyushu and southern Honshu. She proceeded to Okinawa on 23 March to provide support for preinvasion strikes, remaining on duty there after the invasion date of 1 April. For almost three months, until 13 June 1945, \"Maddox\" continued to provide support for this campaign in the form of shore bombardment and carrier screening for raids on Kyushu and Shikoku.\n\nOn 8 July, \"Maddox\" sailed from Leyte to participate in the operations of the third Fleet off the islands of Honshu and Hokkaido. From 10 July until the cessation of offensive action 15 August, she provided screening, picket, and shore bombardment services.\n\nFollowing the Japanese surrender, \"Maddox\" continued to patrol off Japan until departing Tokyo Bay 20 September with military passengers for the United States. Delivering her passengers to San Francisco on 5 October, she proceeded to San Diego, arriving on the 14th. She operated there until 1 February 1946, when she returned to the Far East to support the movement of naval occupation forces between Shanghai, Tsingtao, and Taku in China, and the ports of Pusan and Jinsen in Korea.\n\nReturning to San Diego 24 March 1947, she operated for the next three years off the west coast conducting reserve training cruises, serving as a training ship in antisubmarine warfare and gunnery and participating in maneuvers with the 1st Task Fleet.\n\nOn 1 May 1950, \"Maddox\" departed San Diego for the Far East, arriving Hong Kong 26 June, the day after the commencement of hostilities in Korea. Departing for South Korea the next day, she acted as plane guard and antisubmarine screen for the aircraft carriers and . She operated there until August, when she departed for Formosa. On 4 May, she helped form the initial Formosa (later Taiwan) Patrol Force to prevent Communist Chinese invasion of Taiwan.\n\n\"Maddox\" returned to Korea 7 September and assumed coastal blockade and bombardment duties. She continued this assignment, which included a diversionary bombardment of Samchok coordinated with the Inchon landings on 15 September, until departing for the United States early in January 1951. Arriving at San Diego on 31 January 1951, she served as a training ship and underwent overhaul before departing 1 December 1951 for her second Korean duty. Through February 1952, she screened carriers off the east coast of Korea and provided shore bombardment support for the U.N. land forces. During March she operated with the Taiwan Patrol Force, returning to Korea in April. From 16 April through 17 May she participated in the siege of Wonsan, following which she resumed screening duties for fast carriers.\n\nIn June \"Maddox\" returned to San Diego, arriving on 26 June, to stay only one month before departing for her new home port of Long Beach. After local operations and overhaul, \"Maddox\" again sailed for the Far East on 2 February 1953. As on her second Korean deployment, the destroyer again guarded the fast carriers along the eastern coast of Korea; participated in shore bombardments, this time as far north as Hungnam, and served, for a two-week period, in the Taiwan Patrol Force. After completing her 1953 Korean tour on 12 August she departed for Long Beach, arriving on 30 August.\n\n\"Maddox\" operated off the west coast until the next spring. (\"Maddox\" is featured in the Hollywood film \"Return from the Sea\", released by Allied Artists in 1954.) On 4 May 1954, she sailed for duty with the 7th Fleet. On this tour, which lasted until 5 December, she took part in antisubmarine warfare tactics and attack carrier exercises off Kyushu, Korea, and Luzon as well as operating with the Taiwan Patrol Force.\n\nFrom 14 June 1955 through 2 March 1962, \"Maddox\" completed six additional cruises to the Far East. These cruises included combined defense exercises with the forces of other SEATO nations and training operations with South Korean, Nationalist Chinese, and Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Forces.\n\nHaving operated off the west coast for two years, from March 1962, \"Maddox\" departed Long Beach 13 March 1964 for another tour with the 7th Fleet. At first steaming with fast carrier groups in the Sea of Japan and the East China Sea, she headed south 18 May and established patrol off the coast of South Vietnam.\n\nOn 31 July 1964 she commenced her first leg of a DESOTO patrol in the Tonkin Gulf. Initially a routine patrol, it later developed into a naval action with global repercussions. On 2 August 1964, \"Maddox\", cruising in international waters 28 miles off the coast of North Vietnam, engaged three North Vietnamese Navy (NVN) P4 motor torpedo boats, from Torpedo Squadron 135. The P4s, long aluminum-hulled torpedo boats each armed with two torpedoes which mounted a TNT warhead and capable of exceeding , approached at high speeds from several miles away. The commander of the 7th Fleet's Destroyer Division 192, Captain John J. Herrick, who was aboard \"Maddox\" in charge of the mission, ordered the ship's captain (Commander Herbert Ogier) to have gun crews fire upon the torpedo boats if they came within . When they did, the American sailors fired three rounds to warn off the North Vietnamese boats. The NVN torpedo boats were commanded by three brothers: Van Bot commanded boat \"T-333\", Van Tu commanded \"T-336\", and \"T-339\" was commanded by Van Gian. The torpedo boats initially conducted their attack in numerical order, with \"T-333\" spearheading the assault. Maximum effective range for their torpedoes was , but \"Maddox\"s 5-inch gun's range was . As the boats pressed home their attack and came within , \"T-333\" attempted to run abeam of \"Maddox\" for a side shot, while the remaining two boats continued their stern chase. The two chasers, \"T-336\" and \"T-339\", fired first, but due to \"Maddox\"s heavy fire of 5-inch shells, the torpedo boats had discharged their torpedoes at excessive range, all four underwater missiles missing their mark. \"T-333\" fired its torpedoes, without effect, but dueled \"Maddox\"s 5-inch guns with its twin machine gun, achieving one hit on the destroyer. The ship altered her course to avoid the torpedoes, which were observed passing on the starboard side. Soon, four F-8 Crusaders from an aircraft carrier in the region, , arrived on the scene and attacked the three torpedo boats. The combination of fire from \"Maddox\" and the F-8s severely damaged all three boats, and forced them to retreat to the bases from which they came. Several NVN sailors were wounded, and four were killed. No US sailors were killed or wounded, and \"Maddox\" did not sustain serious damage; one of the four Crusaders sustained some 14.5 mm machine gun fire hits, as a large portion of its left wing was \"missing\", but managed to return to \"Ticonderoga\".\n\nOn 4 August, another DESOTO patrol off the North Vietnamese coast was launched by \"Maddox\" and , in order to \"show the flag\" after the first incident. This time their orders indicated that the ships were to close to no more than from the coast of North Vietnam. During an evening and early morning of rough weather and heavy seas, the destroyers received radar, sonar, and radio signals that they believed signaled another attack by the North Vietnamese navy. For some two hours the ships fired on radar targets and maneuvered vigorously amid electronic and visual reports of enemies. At 0127 Washington time, Herrick sent a cable in which he admitted that the attack may never have happened and that there may actually have been no North Vietnamese craft in the area: \"Review of action makes many reported contacts and torpedoes fired appear doubtful. Freak weather effects on radar and overeager sonarmen may have accounted for many reports. No actual visual sightings by \"Maddox\". Suggest complete evaluation before any further action taken.\" Since then, numerous accounts have supported the theory that there was no attack on 4 August at all, including North Vietnamese military commander Võ Nguyên Giáp, who in 1995 admitted 2 August attack but asserted that the 4 August attack had never occurred.\n\nAfter arrival at Long Beach, \"Maddox\" remained in a leave and upkeep status until mid‑January 1965, then conducted training exercises and repairs in preparation for her next WestPac deployment. She departed Long Beach on 10 July and commenced operating with the fast carriers in the Gulf of Tonkin in early August. For the next four months, \"Maddox\" alternated duty with the carriers with gunfire support missions off the coast of South Vietnam. At the end of November she sailed for home, arriving at Long Beach 16 December.\n\nAfter conducting upkeep and local exercises off the California coast, summer 1966 saw her engaged in a training cruise for midshipmen which included a trip to Pearl Harbor. \"Maddox\" departed California 20 November for another deployment with the 7th Fleet, sailing by way of Pearl Harbor, Midway, Guam, and Taiwan.\n\nAfter a successful tour consisting primarily of providing gunfire support, interrupted by a visit to Singapore and a crossing of the Equator on 8 February 1967, \"Maddox\" departed Subic Bay, Philippine Islands, for home by way of Australia, New Zealand, and Pearl Harbor. She arrived at Long Beach 7 June 1967 and conducted local exercises until entering Long Beach Naval Shipyard 13 October for overhaul. She remained in overhaul until February 1968; then, after refresher training off the west coast, departed for WestPac 5 July. After completion of overhaul and type training, \"Maddox\" once again deployed to the Far East in July 1968, returning in December 1968 to her home port, Long Beach, for overhaul and upkeep. \"Maddox\" was decommissioned in 1969 and assigned to the Naval Reserve Force. She was stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 2 July 1972.\n\n\"Maddox\" received four battle stars for World War II service, and six for Korean service.\n\nOn 6 July 1972 she was transferred to Taiwan, commissioned into the Republic of China Navy, and renamed \"Bo Yang\" and served with the Naval Weapons school. The ship was decommissioned and scrapped in 1985.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4204718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4204718", "title": "Unnecessary Fuss", "text": "Unnecessary Fuss\n\nUnnecessary Fuss is a film produced by Ingrid Newkirk and Alex Pacheco of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), showing footage shot inside the University of Pennsylvania's Head Injury Clinic in Philadelphia.\n\nThe footage was shot in 1983–1984 by the researchers themselves as they inflicted brain damage on baboons with a hydraulic device. The experiments were conducted as part of a research project into head injuries caused by vehicle and sports accidents. The footage shows the researchers laughing at the baboons as the brain damage is inflicted.\n\nSixty hours of audio- and videotape were removed from the laboratory during a raid in May 1984 by the Animal Liberation Front, who handed it over to PETA. It was subsequently edited down to 26 minutes with a voice-over commentary by Newkirk, before being distributed to the media and Congress. Charles McCarthy, director of the Office for Protection from Research Risks (OPRR) wrote that the film had overstated the deficiencies in the clinic, but that the OPRR had found serious violations of the Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. As a result of the publicity, the lab was closed, the chief veterinarian fired, and the university placed on probation.\n\nThe title of the film comes from a statement made to \"The Globe and Mail\" by the head of the clinic, neurosurgeon Thomas Gennarelli before the raid. He declined to describe his research to the newspaper because, he said, it had \"the potential to stir up all sorts of unnecessary fuss ...\"\n\nDeborah Blum writes that \"it is difficult to put into words just how ugly [this] brief movie is.\" The film shows at least one sedated but not anesthetized baboon with his wrists and ankles tied, strapped to an operating table, his shaved head secured with dental cement inside a helmet. A hydraulic device known as Penn 2 slams the baboon's head from behind, pushing it forward at a 60-degree angle with a force of what the researchers said was up to 1000 \"\"g\"\", apparently intended to simulate whiplash.\n\nAfter the injury is sustained, the baboon's head is dislodged from the helmet using a hammer and screwdriver. One sequence shows part of the baboon's ear being torn off along with the helmet. After pulling the baboon's head from the helmet, the researcher is heard to laugh, saying: \"It's a boy,\" then, \"Looks like I left a little ear behind.\"\n\nThe footage shows the researchers laughing at injured baboons, performing electrocautery on an apparently conscious baboon, smoking cigarettes and pipes during surgery, and playing loud music as the animals are injured. A researcher is seen holding a seriously injured baboon up to the camera, while others speak to the animal: \"Don't be shy now, sir, nothing to be afraid of,\" followed by laughter, and \"He says, 'you're gonna rescue me from this, aren't you? Aren't you?',\" followed by more laughter.\n\nWhile one baboon was being injured on the operating table by the hydraulic device, the camera panned to a brain-damaged, drooling monkey strapped into a high chair in a corner of the room, with the words \"Cheerleading in the corner, we have B-10. B-10 wishes his counterpart well. As you can see, B-10 is still alive. B-10 is hoping for a good result,\" followed by laughter. In another sequence, one researcher is heard to say: \"You better hope the ... anti-vivisection people don't get a hold of this film.\" \n\nAn investigation was conducted by 18 veterinarians from the American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine, commissioned by the Office for Protection from Research Risks (OPRR). Charles R. McCarthy, director of the OPRR at the time, wrote that \"[d]espite the fact that \"Unnecessary Fuss\" grossly overstated the deficiencies in the Head Injury Clinic, OPRR found many extraordinarily serious violations of the Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals ... Furthermore, OPRR found deficiencies in the procedures for care of animals in many other laboratories operated under the auspices of the university.\"\n\nThe violations included that the depth of anaesthetic coma was questionable; that most of the animals were not seen by a veterinarian either before or after surgery, survival surgical techniques were not carried out in the required aseptic manner; that the operating theater was not properly cleaned; and that smoking was allowed in the operating theater despite the presence of oxygen tanks.\n\nWhen PETA made its 26-minute film available, the OPRR initially refused to investigate because the film had been edited from 60 hours of videotape. For over a year PETA refused to release the original footage. When they eventually handed over the unedited material, the OPRR discovered that the footage of the brain damage being inflicted involved just one baboon out of the 150 who had received the Penn 2 injuries. The film gave the impression that the brain-damage scenes involved several animals.\n\nThe OPRR identified 25 errors in Newkirk's voice-over commentary. One example was where an accidental water spill over a conscious baboon during a surgical procedure was identified, incorrectly, by one of the Head Injury Clinic's researchers, and subsequently by Newkirk, as \"perhaps acid.\"\n\nAnimal-rights activists held a three-day sit-in at the National Institutes of Health. Margaret Heckler, then Health and Human Services secretary, supported closing the clinic. The government concluded that the violations seen on the footage were sufficient to justify the clinic's closure. The OPRR also found deficiencies in other laboratories operated by the university. The university's chief veterinarian was fired, new training programs were initiated, and the university was placed on probation, with quarterly progress reports to OPRR required.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "64393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64393", "title": "Video game crash of 1983", "text": "Video game crash of 1983\n\nThe video game crash of 1983 (known as the Atari shock in Japan) was a large-scale recession in the video game industry that occurred from 1983 to 1985, primarily in North America. The crash was attributed to several factors, including market saturation in the number of game consoles and available games, and waning interest in console games in favor of personal computers. Revenues peaked at around $3.2 billion in 1983, then fell to around $100 million by 1985 (a drop of almost 97 percent). The crash was a serious event that brought an abrupt end to what is retrospectively considered the second generation of console video gaming in North America.\n\nThe crash shook the then-booming industry, and led to the bankruptcy of several companies producing home computers and video game consoles in the region. It lasted about two years. Analysts of the time expressed doubts about the long-term viability of video game consoles and software. The North American video game console industry recovered a few years later, mostly due to the widespread success of the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) in ; Nintendo designed the NES as the Western branding for its Famicom console originally released in 1983 to avoid the missteps that caused the 1983 crash and avoid the stigma that video games had at that time.\n\nPrior to 1982, the most significant home console was the Atari 2600, along with numerous dedicated single-game consoles such as variants of \"Pong\". The Atari 2600 was launched in 1977, but in its first few years, had modest sales. In 1980, Atari created a licensed version of \"Space Invaders\" from Taito, which became known as the killer application for the console; sales of the Atari 2600 quadrupled, and the game was the first title to sell more than a million copies.\n\nSpurred by Atari's success, there were many consoles introduced on the market, including the Atari 2600, Atari 5200, ColecoVision, Odyssey² and the Intellivision. In addition to this, Mattel and Coleco created devices that allowed them to play Atari 2600 games on their consoles, and others created Atari 2600/Intellivision clones such as the Coleco Gemini, the Sears Tele-Games systems (private-labeled versions of the Atari 2600 and Intellivision), and Tandyvision (an Intellivision clone for Radio Shack).\n\nEach of these consoles had its own library of games produced by the console maker, and many had large libraries of games produced by third-party developers. In 1982, analysts noticed trends of saturation, mentioning that the amount of new software coming in will only allow a few big hits, that retailers had too much floor space for systems, along with price drops for home computers could result in an industry shakeup.\n\nIn addition, the rapid growth of the video game industry led to an increased demand for video games, but which the manufacturers over-projected. An analyst for Goldman Sachs had stated in 1983 that the demand for video games was up 100% from 1982, but the manufacturing output increased by 175%, creating a surplus in the market. Raymond Kassar, the CEO of Atari, had recognized in 1982 that there would become a point of saturation for the industry, but did not expect this to occur until about half of American households had a video game console; at the time, only about 15 million machines had been sold, far below this expected point.\n\nThe first microcomputers such as the Altair 8800 and Apple I were marketed to a niche of electronics hobbyists as most required assembly from a kit. In 1977, factory-assembled machines with BASIC in ROM became available, including the \"Trio of '77\": the Apple II, Commodore PET, and TRS-80 Model I. The latter two retailed for under $1,000, but lacked game joysticks and high-resolution color video. Third-party developers created games for all of these platforms. The TRS-80 benefited from Radio Shack's retail stores, which displayed computers and accessories locally in an era where many personal computers were mail-ordered from manufacturers.\n\nIn 1979, Atari unveiled the Atari 400 and 800 computers, built around a chipset originally meant for use in a game console, and which retailed for the same price as their respective names. In 1981, IBM introduced the IBM 5150 PC with a $1,565 base price (), while Sinclair Research introduced its low-end ZX81 microcomputer for £70 (). By , new desktop computer designs were commonly providing better color graphics and sound than game consoles and personal computer sales were booming. The TI 99/4A and the Atari 400 were both at $349 (), Radio Shack's Color Computer sold at $379 (), and Commodore International had just reduced the price of the VIC-20 to $199 () and the 64 to $499 ().\n\nBy 1983, consumers found that most predicted uses of home computers were unrealistic, except for games. Children used most home computers—Coleco planned to market its Adam home computer to \"boys age 8 to 16 and their fathers ... the two groups that really fuel computer purchases\"—so games dominated home computers' software libraries. A 1984 compendium of reviews of Atari 8-bit software used 198 pages for games compared to 167 for all other software types. Because computers generally had more memory and faster processors than a console, they permitted more sophisticated games. They could also be used for tasks such as word processing and home accounting. Games were easier to duplicate, since they could be packaged as floppy disks or cassette tapes instead of ROM modules (though some cassette-based systems retained ROM modules as an \"instant-on\" option). This opened the field to a cottage industry of third-party software developers. Writeable storage media allowed players to save games in progress, a useful feature for increasingly complex games which was not available on the consoles of the era.\n\nIn 1982, a price war began between Commodore and Texas Instruments, and home computers became as inexpensive as video-game consoles; after Commodore cut the retail price of the 64 to $300 in June 1983 some stores began selling it for as little as $199. Dan Gutman, founder in 1982 of \"Video Games Player\" magazine, recalled in 1987 that \"As the first wave of the personal computer boom started, the video games market began to taper off. People asked themselves, 'Why should I buy a video game system when I can buy a computer that will play games and do so much more?'\" \"The Boston Phoenix\" stated in September 1983 about the cancellation of the Intellivision III, \"Who was going to pay $200-plus for a machine that could only play games?\" Commodore explicitly targeted video game players. Spokesman William Shatner asked in VIC-20 commercials \"Why buy just a video game from Atari or Intellivision?\", stating that \"unlike games, it has a real computer keyboard\" yet \"plays great games too\". The company offered competitive upgrades, where rival systems could be traded for a discount toward the purchase of a Commodore 64. Commodore's ownership of chip fabricator MOS Technology allowed manufacture of integrated circuits in-house, so the VIC-20 and C64 sold for much lower prices than competing home computers.\n\n\"I've been in retailing 30 years and I have never seen any category of goods get on a self-destruct pattern like this\", a Service Merchandise executive told \"The New York Times\" in June 1983. The price war was so severe that in September Coleco CEO Arnold Greenberg welcomed rumors of an IBM 'Peanut' home computer because \"IBM is a company that knows how to make money\". \"I look back a year or two in the videogame field, or the home-computer field\", Greenberg added, \"how much better everyone was, when most people were making money, rather than very few\". Companies reduced production in the middle of the year because of weak demand even as prices remained low, causing shortages as sales suddenly rose during the Christmas season; only the Commodore 64 was widely available, with an estimated more than 500,000 computers sold during Christmas. The 99/4A was such a disaster for TI, that the company's stock immediately rose by 25% after the company discontinued it and exited the home-computer market in late 1983. JC Penney announced in December 1983 that it would soon no longer sell home computers, because of the combination of low supply and low prices.\n\nBy that year, Gutman wrote, \"Video games were officially dead and computers were hot\". He renamed his magazine \"Computer Games\" in October 1983, but \"I noticed that the word \"games\" became a dirty word in the press. We started replacing it with \"simulations\" as often as possible\". Soon \"The computer slump began ... Suddenly, everyone was saying that the home computer was a fad, just another hula hoop\". \"Computer Games\" published its last issue in late 1984. In 1988, \"Computer Gaming World\" founder Russell Sipe noted that \"the arcade game crash of 1984 took down the majority of the computer game magazines with it.\" He stated that, by \"the winter of 1984, only a few computer game magazines remained,\" and by the summer of 1985, \"Computer Gaming World\" \"was the only 4-color computer game magazine left.\"\n\nThe U.S. game industry lobbied in Washington, D.C. for a smaller $1 coin, closer to the size of a quarter, arguing that inflation (which had reduced the quarter's spending power by a third in the early 1980s) was making it difficult to prosper. During the 1970s, the dollar coin in use was the Eisenhower dollar, a large coin impractical for vending machines. The Susan B. Anthony dollar was introduced in 1979, and its size fit the video game manufacturers' demands, but it was a failure with the general public. Ironically, the new coin's similarity to the quarter was one of the most common complaints. In Canada, existing dollar bills were removed from circulation and replaced with coins in 1987.\n\nArcade machines in Japan had standardized the use of ¥100 coins, worth roughly $1, which industry veteran Mark Cerny proposed as a reason for the stability of the game industry in Japan, where the crash was known as the \"Atari shock\".\n\nIn , Activision became the industry's first third-party developer. It was founded by Atari programmers who left the company because Atari did not allow credits to appear on their games and did not pay employees a royalty based on sales. At the time, Atari was owned by Warner Communications, and the developers felt that they should receive the same recognition that musicians, directors, and actors got from Warner's other divisions. After Activision went into business, Atari quickly sued to block sales of Activision's products, but failed to secure a restraining order and ultimately settled the case in . This court case legitimized third-party development, encouraging companies such as Quaker Oats (with their US Games division) to rush to open video-game divisions, hoping to impress both stockholders and consumers.\n\nUntil 1982, few third-party console games existed other than Activision's. Imagic and Games by Apollo demonstrated their own 2600 cartridges in January 1982, and Coleco announced several 2600 and Intellivision games. Parker Brothers, CBS Video Games, and Mattel also announced 2600 cartridges at the February Toy Fair, and Coleco announced the ColecoVision. At the Summer 1982 Consumer Electronics Show, 17 companies including MCA Inc. and Fox Video Games announced 90 new Atari games. By 1983, an estimated 100 companies were vying to get a foothold in the video game market.\n\nThe new companies reduced Atari's share of the cartridge-game market from 75% in 1981 to less than 40% in 1982. David Crane, one of the founders of Activision after leaving Atari, recalled that during the six months between two consecutive Consumer Electronic Shows, the number of third-party developers jumped from 3 to 30. Attempting to imitate Activision, the new companies attempted to use programmers unfamiliar with game development to produce, Crane said, \"the worst games you can imagine\". Companies lured away each other's programmers or used reverse engineering to learn how to make games for proprietary systems. Atari even hired several programmers from Mattel's Intellivision development studio, prompting a lawsuit by Mattel against Atari that included charges of industrial espionage.\n\nDespite the lessons learned by Atari in the loss of its programmers to Activision, Mattel continued to try to avoid crediting game designers. Rather than reveal the names of Intellivision game designers, in a 1981 \"TV Guide\" interview, Mattel instead required that they change their names to protect their collective identities.\n\nIn the second half of 1982 the number of cartridges grew from 100 in June to more than 400 in December. Experts predicted a glut in 1983, with 10% of games producing 75% of sales. \"BYTE\" stated in December that \"in 1982 few games broke new ground in either design or format ... If the public really likes an idea, it is milked for all it's worth, and numerous clones of a different color soon crowd the shelves. That is, until the public stops buying or something better comes along. Companies who believe that microcomputer games are the hula hoop of the 1980s only want to play Quick Profit.\" Bill Kunkel said in January 1983 that companies had \"licensed everything that moves, walks, crawls, or tunnels beneath the earth. You have to wonder how tenuous the connection will be between the game and the movie \"Marathon Man\". What are you going to do, present a video game root canal?\"\n\nBy September 1983 the \"Phoenix\" stated that 2600 cartridges \"is no longer a growth industry\". Activision, Atari, and Mattel all had experienced programmers, but many of the new companies rushing to join the market did not have the expertise or talent to create quality games. Titles such as \"Chase the Chuck Wagon\" (about dogs eating food, funded by the dog food company Purina), \"Skeet Shoot\", and \"Lost Luggage\" were examples of games made in the hopes of taking advantage of the video-game boom.\n\nThe release of so many new games in flooded the market. Most stores had insufficient space to carry new games and consoles. As stores tried to return the surplus games to the new publishers, the publishers had neither new products nor cash to issue refunds to the retailers. Many publishers, including Games by Apollo and US Games, quickly folded. Unable to return the unsold games to defunct publishers, stores marked down the titles and placed them in discount bins and sale tables. Recently released games which initially sold for US $35 (equivalent to $92 in 2018) were in bins for $5 ($13 in 2018). Crane said that \"those awful games flooded the market at huge discounts, and ruined the video game business\". By June , the market for the more expensive games had shrunk dramatically and was replaced by a new market of rushed-to-market, low-budget games.\n\nA massive industry shakeout resulted. Magnavox abandoned the video game business entirely. Imagic withdrew its IPO the day before its stock was to go public; the company later collapsed.\nOne of the more predominant effects of the 1983 crash was on Atari. In 1982, it had published large volumes of Atari 2600 games that they had expected to sell well, including a port of \"Pac-Man\" and game adaption of the film \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\". However, due to the quality of these games and other market factors, much of Atari's production did not get sold. In September 1983, Atari discreetly buried much of this excess stock, as well as unsold stock of earlier games, in a landfill near Alamogordo, New Mexico, though Atari did not comment about their activity at the time. Misinformation related to sales of \"Pac-Man\" and \"E.T.\" led to an urban legend of the Atari video game burial that millions of unsold cartridges were buried there. Gaming historians received permission to dig up the landfill as part of a documentary in 2014, during which former Atari executives clarified that only about 700,000 cartridges had been buried in 1982, backed by estimates made during the excavation, and disproving the scale of the urban legend. Despite this, Atari's burial remains an iconic representation of the 1983 video game crash.\n\nAs a result, while some stores sold new games and machines, most retailers stopped selling video game consoles or reduced their stock significantly, reserving floor or shelf space for other products. This was the most formidable barrier that confronted Nintendo, as it tried to market its Famicom system in the United States. Retailer opposition to video games was directly responsible for causing Nintendo to brand its product an \"Entertainment System\" rather than a \"console\", using terms such as \"control deck\" and \"Game Pak\", as well as producing a toy robot called \"R.O.B.\" to convince toy retailers to allow it in their stores. Furthermore, the design for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) used a front-loading cartridge slot to mimic how video cassette recorders, popular at that time, were loaded, further pulling the NES away from previous console designs.\n\nThe crash also affected video game arcades. While the number of arcades in the United States had doubled to 10,000 from 1980 to 1982, the crash lead to a closure of around 1,500 arcades, and revenues of those that remained open had fallen by 40%.\n\nThe full effects of the industry crash would not be felt until 1985. Despite Atari's claim of 1 million in sales of its 2600 game system that year, recovery was slow. The sales of home video games had dropped from $3.2 billion in 1982 to $100 million in 1985. Analysts doubted the long-term viability of the video game industry, but following the release of the Nintendo Entertainment System, the industry began recovering, with annual sales exceeding $2.3 billion by 1988, with 70% of the market dominated by Nintendo. In 1986, Nintendo president Hiroshi Yamauchi noted that \"Atari collapsed because they gave too much freedom to third-party developers and the market was swamped with rubbish games\". In response, Nintendo limited the number of titles that third-party developers could release for their system each year, and promoted its \"Seal of Quality\", which it allowed to be used on games and peripherals by publishers that met Nintendo's quality standards.\n\nThe end of the crash allowed Commodore to raise the price of the C64 for the first time upon the June 1986 introduction of the Commodore 64c—a Commodore 64 redesigned for lower cost of manufacture—which \"Compute!\" cited as the end of the home-computer price war, one of the causes of the crash.\n\nThe North American video game crash had two long-lasting results. The first result was that dominance in the home console market shifted from the United States to Japan. By , three years after its introduction, 6.5 million Japanese homes—19% of the population—owned a Family Computer, and Nintendo began exporting it to the U.S.; by the Nintendo Entertainment System was very popular in North America. When the U.S. video game market recovered in the late 1980s the NES was by far the dominant console, leaving only a fraction of the market to a resurgent Atari. By 1989, home video game sales in the United States had reached $5 billion, surpassing the 1982 peak of $3 billion during the previous generation. A large majority of the market was controlled by Nintendo; it sold more than 35 million units in the United States, exceeding the sales of other consoles and personal computers by a considerable margin. Other Japanese companies also rivaled Nintendo's success in the United States, with Sega's Mega Drive/Genesis in 1989 and NEC's PC Engine/TurboGrafx 16 released the same year.\n\nA second, highly visible result of the crash was the advancement of measures to control third-party development of software. Using secrecy to combat industrial espionage had failed to stop rival companies from reverse engineering the Mattel and Atari systems and hiring away their trained game programmers. While Mattel and Coleco implemented lockout measures to control third-party development (the ColecoVision BIOS checked for a copyright string on power-up), the Atari 2600 was completely unprotected and once information on its hardware became available, little prevented anyone from making games for the system. Nintendo thus instituted a strict licensing policy for the NES that included equipping the cartridge and console with lockout chips, which were region-specific, and had to match in order for a game to work. In addition to preventing the use of unlicensed games, it also was designed to combat software piracy, rarely a problem in the United States or Western Europe, but rampant in East Asia.\n\nAccolade achieved a technical victory in one court case against Sega, challenging this control, even though it ultimately yielded and signed the Sega licensing agreement. Several publishers, notably Tengen (Atari), Color Dreams, and Camerica, challenged Nintendo's control system during the 8-bit era by producing unlicensed NES games. The concepts of such a control system remain in use on every major video game console produced today, even with fewer \"cartridge-based\" consoles on the market than in the 8/16-bit era. Replacing the security chips in most modern consoles are specially encoded optical discs that cannot be copied by most users and can only be read by a particular console under normal circumstances.\nNintendo reserved a large part of NES game revenue for itself by limiting most third-party publishers to only five games per year on its systems (some companies tried to get around this by creating additional company labels like Konami's Ultra Games label); Nintendo would ultimately drop this rule by 1993 with the release of the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. It also required all cartridges to be manufactured by Nintendo, and to be paid for in full before they were manufactured. Cartridges could not be returned to Nintendo, so publishers assumed all the financial risk of selling all units ordered. As a result, some publishers lost more money due to distress sales of remaining inventory at the end of the NES era than they ever earned in profits from sales of the games.\n\nNintendo portrayed these measures as intended to protect the public against poor-quality games, and placed a golden seal of approval on all licensed games released for the system. Further, Nintendo implemented its proprietary 10NES, a lockout chip which was designed to prevent cartridges made without the chip from being played on the NES. The 10NES lockout was not perfect, as later in the NES's lifecycle methods were found to bypass it, but it did sufficiently allow Nintendo to strengthen its publishing control to avoid the mistakes Atari had made. These strict licensing measures backfired somewhat after Nintendo was accused of trust behavior. In the long run, this pushed many western third-party publishers such as Electronic Arts away from Nintendo consoles, and would actively support competing consoles such as the Sega Genesis or Sony PlayStation. Most of the Nintendo platform-control measures were adopted by later console manufacturers such as Sega, Sony, Microsoft, and Intellivision Entertainment although not as stringently.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27565121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27565121", "title": "Warren County Farmers' Fair Balloon Festival", "text": "Warren County Farmers' Fair Balloon Festival\n\nThe Warren County Farmers' Fair Balloon Festival was started in 2001 and takes place during the week of the County Fair in Warren County, New Jersey. The Fair itself was established in 1937 by the Warren County Farmers' Fair Association. The event is a non-profit 501(c)6, agriculture in nature.\n\nThe balloon festival was started by pilot Fred Grotenhuis, who has flown hot air balloons since the mid 80's. The festival began with approximately 15 balloons and to date has grown to about 30 balloons. The event features some balloon races, including the typical hare and hound races, in addition to the Bicycle Balloon Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "47720874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47720874", "title": "West African Ebola virus epidemic timeline of reported cases and deaths", "text": "West African Ebola virus epidemic timeline of reported cases and deaths\n\nIn March 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) \"reported\" a major Ebola outbreak in Guinea, a western African nation, the disease then rapidly spread to the neighboring countries of Liberia and Sierra Leone with smaller outbreaks occurring in Senegal, Nigeria, and Mali; the resulting West African Ebola virus epidemic is the largest Ebola outbreak (cases and deaths) ever documented.\n\nResearchers believe that a 2-year-old boy who lived in the village of Meliandou, Guéckédou Prefecture, Guinea was the index case of the current Ebola virus disease epidemic. The boy died in December 2013. His mother, sister, and grandmother then became ill with similar symptoms and also died. Although Ebola represents a significant public health problem in sub-Saharan Africa and was documented in Tai Forest chimpanzees, only one case had been reported in humans in West Africa. With this background and in the context of poor public health systems, the early cases were mis-diagnosed as diseases more common to the area. Thus Ebola virus disease spread for several months before it was recognized as such. In late October 2014, the boy was later identified as Emile Ouamouno. In a Tuesday, December 30, 2014 online world news story article by Richard Ingham from the Agence France-Presse (AFP) that was featured on the MSN homepage, it was revealed that a tree in the area where children had played at, playing with insect-eating free-tailed bats and hunting and grilling them to eat (they are a cousin of another well-known Ebola reservoir, the fruit bat, whose role in this outbreak is not as clear), is believed to be the point where human infection – likely by the bats – with Ebola in this current outbreak occurred, the 'ground zero' of the epidemic. This is not yet known decisively, but scientists have enough knowledge to go public with the story.\n\nData comes from reports by the World Health Organization Global Alert and Response Unit and the WHO's Regional Office for Africa. All numbers are correlated with United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), if available. The reports are sourced from official information from the affected countries' health ministries. The WHO has stated the reported numbers \"vastly underestimate the magnitude of the outbreak\", estimating there may be 3 times as many cases as officially reported.\n\nEach row of the table represents the best available information cross-checked from multiple sources on the day it was reported. The data may be inaccurate for the following reasons: \n\n\nNotes:\n\n"}
{"id": "43775858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43775858", "title": "Wien Modern", "text": "Wien Modern\n\nWien Modern is a modern music festival in Vienna, Austria that was founded by Claudio Abbado in 1988. It was created with the intent of revitalizing the traditional music scene of Vienna. Friedrich Cerha, Johannes Maria Staud, Mark Andre, Wolfgang Mitterer, Olga Neuwirth, Peter Eötvös, and Georg Friedrich Haas have been featured at the festival since its inception.\n\n"}
