{"id": "50017117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50017117", "title": "28th National Geographic Bee", "text": "28th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 28th annual National Geographic Bee was held between May 22–25, 2016 in Washington, D.C. It was moderated by the American humorist, journalist and actor Mo Rocca and featured a grand prize of a $50,000 college scholarship. The champion was Rishi Nair of Williams Magnet Middle School in Tampa, Florida, who won the $50,000 scholarship, lifetime membership to the National Geographic Society, and a Lindblad expedition to southeast Alaska. The 2nd-place winner was Saketh Jonnalagadda of Stony Brook Middle School in Westford, Massachusetts, who won a $25,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner was Kapil Nathan of Brock's Gap Intermediate School in Hoover, Alabama, who won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\nTen preliminary rounds held on May 23, 2016. Each State Champion had to answer ten oral questions, and prior to their arrival in Washington, D.C., had to submit a video related to a topic. The video was worth up to six points, hence the highest possible amount of points was 16. One 16 and 4 15s were scored. A 9 way tie for 14 pts was broken with 4 exiting the competition. The ten finalists were announced around 11:30. The top ten finalists were as follows:\n\nThe finals consisted of questions regarding the U.S. through Rounds 1-5, with 4 eliminated once Round 5 was over. A tie existed between Rishi Kumar and Lucas Eggers, with the latter exiting the competition. After that, questions regarding the world appeared. A three way tie existed between Grace Rembert, Rishi Kumar again, and Kapil Nathan with the latter entering the final three. After Nathan was eliminated, the final two moved on to the Championships - Jonnalagadda and Nair. The latter won the competition.\n"}
{"id": "39941592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39941592", "title": "American Orff-Schulwerk Association", "text": "American Orff-Schulwerk Association\n\nThe American Orff-Schulwerk Association (AOSA) is an organization of American music educators dedicated to utilizing, advancing and preserving Orff-Schulwerk, a developmental learning approach to music education which was created by composer Carl Orff and his colleague Gunild Keetman. It is an affiliate of the National Association for Music Education, the National Music Council, and the Orff-Schulwerk Forum in Salzburg, Austria. With approximately 4,500 members, it is one of the larger professional organizations for music educators in the United States.\n\nAOSA offers several opportunities for professional development, including an annual national conference and the quarterly academic journal \"The Orff Echo\". The organization has 96 local chapters throughout the United States which also provide workshops locally to their members. AOSA is also responsible for accrediting and organizing graduate level certifications in Orff-Schulwerk at numerous universities throughout the United States. A certificate in Orff-Schulwerk requires the successful completion of three graduate level courses in Orff-Schulwerk.\n\nAOSA was founded in 1968 in Muncie, Indiana by ten music teachers. Its founding members were: \n\nThe following is a list of universities that offer AOSA accredited graduate music studies in Orff-Schulwerk:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34443939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34443939", "title": "Arab Image Foundation", "text": "Arab Image Foundation\n\nThe Arab Image Foundation (; / ALA-LC: \"al-Muʾassasah al-ʿArabiyyah lil-Ṣūrah\") is a non-profit organization established in Beirut in 1997. It aims to track down, collect, preserve and study photographs from the Middle East, North Africa and the Arab diaspora. Its expanding collection includes more than 600,000 from Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, Jordan, Egypt, Morocco, Iraq, Iran, Mexico, Argentina, and Senegal.\n\nArab Image Foundation was created in 1997 by photographers Fouad Elkoury and Samer Mohdad, and artist Akram Zaatari as a reaction to the lack of photographic archives in the region and the rapid disappearance of the few that remained. The collections reveal a large aspect of the social history of the Arab World, including the picture that Arabs have constructed of themselves since the creation of photography.\n\nThe Foundation has become internationally and regionally recognized as the leading photographic institution in the Middle East. In addition to housing and conserving hundreds of thousands of photographs, the Foundation has spearheaded conservations and preservation projects in the Middle East, co-sponsoring workshops to disseminate the knowledge and skills needed to identify, restore, and conserve the Arab world's large photographic archive.\n\nIn addition to on site facilities including a public space, a library, a research center and a laboratory, the AIF has organized multiple gallery and museum exhibits, and produced book publications, monographs, films, and collectible merchandise, such as postcards and posterbook publications and films. The foundation also runs a prestigious residency program for artists and scholars.\n\nThe Foundation is governed by a Board of Directors and a General Assembly. \nThe current (March 2018) status of the Board is unknown. \n\nThe General Assembly includes all associate members of the AIF. These are Zeina Arida, Vartan Avakian, Negar Azimi, Lara Baladi, Karl Bassil, Nigol Bezjian,Yasmine Eid-Sabbagh, Khaled Malas, Hrair Sarkissian, Akram Zaatari, Jean-Pierre Zahar. \n\n\n(Arab Image Foundation, 2004)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28329847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28329847", "title": "Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization", "text": "Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization\n\nThe Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization (ALECSO) is a Tunis-based institution of the Arab League, established in accordance with article 3 of the Arab Cultural Unity Charter by an announcement made in Cairo, Egypt, on 25 July 1970. ALECSO works to coordinate cultural and educational activities in the Arab world.\n\nAmong its various activities, subsidiary ALECSO institutions have been established across the Arab world:\n\nArticle 1 of ALECSO's constitution states that ALECSO seeks to achieve unity of thought in the Arab world through education, culture and science and to enhance the level of culture in the region, in order to keep up with and contribute to universal civilisation.\n\nThe \"Arab Centre for Arabization, Translation, Authorship and Publication\" (ACATAP) is a Damascus-based institution, established in 1990 by an agreement between Syria and ALECSO. In pursuit of the goals of the Arabic Cultural Unity Charter and the ALECSO constitution, ACATAP aims to Arabize higher education in the Arab world, enrich Arab culture through the translation of works of foreign origin and share Arab achievements through the translation of Arabic works in the fields of science, art and literature into widely spoken foreign languages. The current director of ACATAP is Zaid Ibraheem Al Assaf.\n\nThe \"Institute of Arab Research and Studies\" (IARS) () is a Cairo-based research institute administered by ALECSO. Established as an institution of the Arab League by resolution of the Council of the Arab League on 23 September 1952, the IARS started work on 1 November 1953. Following the creation of ALECSO in 1970, the IARS was brought under ALECSO's administrative control by resolution of the secretary-general dated 10 September 1970. The IARS was admitted to membership of the Federation of Arab Universities in 1994.\n\nThere are 22 member-states of ALECSO, listed below by date of membership:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56122568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56122568", "title": "Bioscopia", "text": "Bioscopia\n\nBioscopia: Where Science Conquers Evil (aka Biolab) is a 2001 educational adventure video game. It is a sister game to \"Physicus\" and \"Chemicus\".\n\nGameplay is similar to 1993 video game \"Myst\".\n\nThe game received positive reviews from critics, praising its puzzles, educational content, and graphics.\n\n"}
{"id": "30796487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30796487", "title": "Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development", "text": "Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development\n\nThe Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development (until 2015: Digital Development) was established in May 2010 as a joint initiative by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to promote Internet access, in particular, broadband networks in order to help achieve United Nations development goals, such as the Millennium Development Goals (until 2015). The Commission was renamed the Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development, following the adoption of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals in September 2015.\nThe commission is jointly chaired by H.E. Paul Kagame President of Rwanda and America Movil owner Carlos Slim, and jointly vice-chaired by the heads to the two founding UN agencies, the Secretary-General of the International Telecommunication Union Houlin Zhao, and UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay.\n\nMembers of the commission include, policy-makers and government representatives, international agencies, academia and organizations concerned with development. In addition to its chairs and vice-chairs, 51 commissioners included Jeff Sachs, Muhammad Yunus, Hans Vestberg, Mo Ibrahim and Martin Sorrell.\n\nThe Broadband Commission engages in high-level advocacy to promote broadband in developing countries and underserved communities. One of the Commission's stated goals is to advocate that broadband infrastructure be given the highest priority level in future development policy and city planning frameworks. \n\nTo date, the Commission's output has included several major reports, including “A 2010 Leadership Imperative: The Future Built on Broadband” presented to then United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in September 2010, before the 2010 United Nations MDGs Summit in New York. The document constitutes a concise, high-level report that directly reflects inputs from the Commission's community of high-level business executives and policy-makers and contains a number of policy recommendations and \"Declaration of Broadband Inclusion for All\".\n\nAs part of its advocacy work, in 2011 the commission established a framework of four \"ambitious but achievable\" targets that countries should strive to meet by 2015 in order to help achieve the MDGs through digital development.\n\n\nWith the fifth target being added in 2013, designed to spur female access to the power of information and communication technologies (ICTs).\n\nIn 2018, the commission launched a framework of now seven \"ambitious but achievable\" targets, that countries should strive to meet by the year 2025.\n\nThe Broadband Commission targets were developed at ITU, and launched at the World Economic Forum 2018 in Davos.\n\nSince 2012 the Commission has published an annual State of Broadband report, positioned as a snapshot of the global broadband industry. The reports are issued every year during a high-level meeting on the side of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, and are specifically targeted at government policy-makers, as well as those engaged with setting the UN's Post 2015 development agenda. Each report includes a country ranking based on key indicators for Internet-user penetration and Internet access affordability.\nIn addition to its annual reports, the Broadband Commission employs working groups to address specific action items or focus areas. Working groups examine such issues as Science, Health, Climate Change, Youth, Education, Gender and Finance and Investment; and reflect the wide-ranging impact of broadband technologies across multiple sectors. Past outputs from working groups include reports, consultations and workshops.\n\nDuring the countdown to 2015 and the due date for the MDGs, the Commission's advocacy and policy outreach has increasingly been directed towards actors responsible for setting the Post-2015 Development Agenda, to recognize the importance of ICT/broadband infrastructure, networks, applications and services for sustainable economic, social and environmental development. In April 2013 the, group issued an Open Letter to United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon's Panel of Eminent Persons, as well as a broadband manifesto in September at the 69th session of the General Assembly.\n\nDonors include Grupo Carso, Digicel Group, Bharti Enterprises, Intel, Ooredoo, Ericsson, Cisco and the Mo Ibrahim Foundation.\n\nIn September 2015, the Broadband Commission released a report on \"cyber violence\" against women, which addressed online harassment targeted at women. The report has been criticised by some for being anti free speech and advocating internet censorship. Others have criticised the report for providing questionable information that has been poorly cited, which included non-existent sources and a source linking to a file on the author's computer hard drive.\n\n"}
{"id": "12832865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12832865", "title": "Bryan A. Garner", "text": "Bryan A. Garner\n\nBryan A. Garner (born November 17, 1958) is an American lawyer, lexicographer, and teacher who has written more than two dozen books about English usage and style as well as advocacy. He also wrote two books with Justice Antonin Scalia: \"Making Your Case: The Art of Persuading Judges\" (2008) and \"Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts\" (2012).\n\nThe founder and president of LawProse Inc., he serves as Distinguished Research Professor of Law at Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law.\n\nGarner was born in Lubbock, Texas. and raised in Canyon, Texas. He attended the University of Texas at Austin, where he published excerpts from his senior thesis, notably \"Shakespeare's Latinate Neologisms\" and \"Latin-Saxon Hybrids in Shakespeare and the Bible.\"\n\nAfter receiving his B.A. degree, Garner entered the University of Texas School of Law, where he served as an associate editor of the \"Texas Law Review\".\n\nAfter receiving his J.D. degree in 1984, he clerked for Judge Thomas M. Reavley of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit before he joined the Dallas firm of Carrington, Coleman, Sloman & Blumenthal. He then returned to the University of Texas School of Law and was named director of the Texas/Oxford Center for Legal Lexicography.\n\nIn 1990, he left the university to found LawProse Inc., which provides seminars on clear writing, briefing and editing for lawyers and judges.\n\nGarner has taught at the University of Texas School of Law, the University of California at Berkeley (Boalt Hall), Texas Tech University School of Law, and Texas A&M University School of Law. He has been awarded three honorary doctorates (Stetson, La Verne, and Thomas M. Cooley Law School). He serves on the Board of Advisers of The Green Bag.\n\nAs a student at the University of Texas School of Law in 1981, Garner began noticing odd usages in lawbooks, many of them dating back to Shakespeare. They became the source material for his first book, \"A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage\" (1987). Since 1990, his work has focused on teaching the legal profession clear writing techniques.\n\nIn books, articles,\n\nGarner says that one of the main reasons for the reform is to make legal writing more comprehensible to readers who lack a legal education. That has attracted opposition, most notably from Judge Richard A. Posner of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, and from his co-author, Justice Antonin Scalia.\n\nSince 1992, Garner has contributed numerous revisions to the field of procedural rules, when he began revising all amendments to the sets of Federal Rules (Civil, Appellate, Evidence, Bankruptcy, and Criminal) for the Judicial Conference of the United States.\n\nGarner and Justice Scalia wrote \"Making Your Case: The Art of Persuading Judges\" (2008). Garner maintains a legal consulting practice, focusing on issues in statutory construction and contractual interpretation.\n\nGarner's books on English usage include \"Garner's Modern English Usage\". In 2003, he contributed a chapter on grammar and usage to the 15th edition of the \"Chicago Manual of Style\", and later editions have retained it.\n\nIn 1995, Garner became the editor in chief of \"Black's Law Dictionary\". He created a panel of international legal experts to improve the specialized vocabulary in the book. Garner and the panel rewrote and expanded the dictionary's lexicographic information.\n\nOnly current editions are shown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40868240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40868240", "title": "CIUTI", "text": "CIUTI\n\nConférence Internationale Permanente d'Instituts Universitaires de Traducteurs et Interprètes (French for \"International Standing Conference of University Institutes of Translators and Interpreters\"), abbreviated as CIUTI, is an international academy associating translation and interpretation institutes affiliated to universities. Founded in the 1960s, the institution aims at promoting international T&I cooperation in both professional training and academic research.\n\nThe establishment of CIUTI was proposed by the universities of Geneva, Heidelberg, Mainz/Germersheim, Paris-Sorbonne, Saarbrücken and Trieste, in response to the high demand for competent translators and interpreters after World War II.\n\nThe CIUTI membership is open to institutions at the level of tertiary education only, and restricted to those who offer programs in translation, interpreting and multilingual communication. A set of high quality standards is attached to membership applications, which involves strict requirements on curriculum structure, research, academic infrastructure and resources of applicant institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "6129481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6129481", "title": "California Department of Education", "text": "California Department of Education\n\nThe California Department of Education is an agency within the Government of California that oversees public education. Its headquarters are located in the U.S. state of California's capital city, Sacramento.\n\nThe department oversees funding and testing, and holds local educational agencies accountable for student achievement. Its stated mission is to provide leadership, assistance, oversight, and resources (via teaching and teaching material) so that every Californian has access to a good education.\n\nThe State Board of Education is the governing and policy-making body, and the State Superintendent of Public Instruction is the nonpartisan (originally partisan) elected executive officer. Superintendents serve four-year terms. The current Superintendent of Public Instruction is Tom Torlakson. The Superintendent serves as the state's chief spokesperson for public schools, and provides education policy and direction to local school districts. He also serves as an ex officio member of governing boards of the state's higher education system.\n\nIn 1920, the California State Legislature's Special Legislative Committee on Education conducted a comprehensive investigation of California's educational system. The Committee's final report, drafted by Ellwood Patterson Cubberley, explained that the system's chaotic \"ad hoc\" development had resulted in the division of jurisdiction over education at the state level between 23 separate boards and commissions, with a total of about 160 members. The report recommended the consolidation and centralization of all these entities under the jurisdiction of a single California Department of Education, and also to clarify the exact relationship between the existing State Board of Education and the State Superintendent of Public Instruction. Therefore, on May 31, 1921, the legislature enacted a bill creating such a department, to be headed by a Director of Education, and which also concurrently made the State Superintendent of Public Instruction the \"ex officio\" director of the new department.\n\nAmong the various entities thus integrated were the State Normal Schools, which lost their boards of trustees, were made subordinate to the department's deputy director for the Division of Normal and Special Schools, and were renamed State Teachers Colleges. This created a rather bizarre administrative situation from 1921 to 1960. On the one hand, the department's actual supervision of the presidents of the State Teachers Colleges was rather minimal, which translated into substantial autonomy when it came to day-to-day operations. On the other hand, the State Teachers Colleges were treated under state law as ordinary state agencies, which meant their budgets were subject to the same stifling bureaucratic financial controls as all other state agencies (except the University of California). At least one president would depart his state college because of his express frustration over that issue (J. Paul Leonard, president of San Francisco State, in 1957). The State Teachers Colleges were renamed State Colleges in 1935, but retained the same legal status. They finally regained full administrative autonomy after the recommendations of the California Master Plan for Higher Education were signed into law as the Donahoe Higher Education Act of 1960, which created the California State Colleges (now the California State University) and authorized the appointment of a board of trustees and systemwide chancellor who would be independent of the department. In 1967, the state's junior colleges (which had largely developed as extensions of existing high school districts at the local level) were renamed community colleges and organized into the California Community College System, and that system was in turn authorized to have its own board of governors and systemwide chancellor who would also be independent of the department. \n\nSince then, the department has been focused on regulating and supporting local school districts which directly provide the bulk of K-12 primary and secondary education throughout the state, as well as operating the state's three special schools and three diagnostic centers in support of special education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4613264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4613264", "title": "Centre for South Estonian Language and Cultural Studies", "text": "Centre for South Estonian Language and Cultural Studies\n\nThe Centre for South Estonian Language and Cultural Studies is an interdisciplinary unit at the Faculty of Philosophy of Tartu University. The centre coordinates and organizes linguistic and cultural studies in the historical South Estonian (Võro, Seto, Mulgi and Tartu) area. The centre also publishes books and organizes events connected with South Estonian language and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "477197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477197", "title": "Charles Lisner", "text": "Charles Lisner\n\nCharles Maurice Lisner OBE (1928 - 1988) was the founder and first artistic director of the Queensland Ballet. Born in Paris, France, Lisner emigrated to Australia with his parents in 1937. He started dancing late in life, in his early twenties, and traveled to London where he spent time with the Sadler's Wells Ballet. He later joined the Royal Ballet, Covent Garden.\n\nIn 1953, Lisner returned to Queensland after the death of his father, and established the Lisner Ballet Academy with virtually no money. From that academy grew Lisner's privately owned company, the Lisner Ballet, which was established in 1960. In 1962, the name was changed to the Queensland Ballet. Lisner stepped down as Artistic Director and Chief Executive Officer of the company in 1974.\n\nLisner married Valerie, one of his dancers. He was an uncredited dancer in \"The Red Shoes\" (1948) \n\nQueensland Ballet studio seasons are performed in \"The Charles Lisner Studio Theatre\" of the \"Thomas Dixon Centre\"\n\nHe was appointed OBE in the 1976 New Year Honours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "825754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=825754", "title": "College English Test", "text": "College English Test\n\nThe College English Test (), better known as CET, is a national English as a foreign language test in the People's Republic of China. It examines the English proficiency of undergraduate and postgraduate students in China. It is meant to ensure that Chinese undergraduates and postgraduates reach the required English levels specified in the National College English Teaching Syllabuses (NCETS). This test has existed in China for 26 years and now 18 million people take it annually. It includes two levels — CET4 (非专业四级) and CET6 (非专业六级).\n\nAnother kind of national English as a foreign language test is Test for English Majors (Chinese: 高校英语专业考试), better known as TEM. It includes two levels — TEM4 (英语专业四级) and TEM8 (英语专业八级).\n\nGenerally, College English Test allows all non-English-major university students to attend.\n\nBefore the 2005 reform, the maximum score was 100 points. A test score higher than 85 is graded as \"Excellent\", and a test score higher than 60 but below 85 is graded as \"Pass\" in the certificate. This test was held nationally twice a year in summer and winter. The CET consisted of the non-English-specialized \"Band 4\" (CET4), in which certificate-holders have reached the English level of non-English major undergraduate students, and \"Band 6\" (CET6), in which the certificate-holders have reached the English level of non-English major postgraduates. The test included listening, reading and writing sections. The spoken test was optional.\n\nThe CET was reformed in 2005. Several changes were made, including:\n\n\nThe CET-4 is mandatory for university students in China who are not English majors. It is also a prerequisite for a bachelor's degree. Many employers in China prefer applicants with CET-4 or even CET-6 certification.\n\nPassing the CET is important for Chinese college students. Graduates may only be able to get a degree or a good job if they can pass the CET with a high score.\n\nWhile the CET tests reading, writing and listening, it does have a separate test for speaking. The speaking test is held twice a year and only students with a CET Band-4 score higher than 550 or a CET Band-6 higher than 485 are eligible for the test.\n\nA similar but more rigorous test, the Test for English Majors (TEM), is mandatory for English majors, and it is generally only for English majors. For these students, passing the TEM-4 is a graduation requirement. The test should be taken by the end of the second academic or sophomore year. TEM-8 (\"Band 8\") is the highest level for English major students; it should be taken during the end of the last academic or senior year.\n\nIf an English-major student fails to pass the TEM-4 during his or her sophomore year, they may attempt to pass the TEM-8 during their senior year. Those failing the TEM-8 are only allowed one re-test (during the following year after they have graduated from college). A second failure results in disqualification lifelong.\n\nBoth TEM4 and TEM8 are only two qualifications for any students lifelong.\n\n\n\nSome Chinese researchers point out the positive social consequences of the CET as it has promoted the role of English teaching and learning at the tertiary level in China over its 20-year history. At the same time, other researchers challenge the CET by pointing out that the test does not assess communicative competence as the teaching syllabus requires. Before the recent reform of the CET, the large proportion of multiple choice questions made this test an efficient one, but possible sacrifices in accurately measuring English language ability remained a concern. Since the CET certificates had been one of the graduation requirements of undergraduates in the majority of Chinese universities for almost 20 years, test-oriented teaching was another severe problem. However, there have been changes made in the CET test content, format, and scoring systems are evidence of the endeavors to bring about positive washback of the test on English teaching and learning in China. It is the expectation of the CET committee that the test can reflect and catch up with the needs of rapid economic reform and the new open-door policy.\n\nAnswering all questions incorrectly will result in 330, the lowest score a test taker can get in CET4. By contrast, receiving a score higher than 600 is usually regarded as \"perfect\" and that means the test taker has not only answered most multiple choice questions correctly but received a positive feedback on his performance in the writing section.\n"}
{"id": "353942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353942", "title": "Desegregation busing", "text": "Desegregation busing\n\nDesegregation busing in the United States (also known as forced busing or simply busing) is the practice of assigning and transporting students to schools so as to redress prior racial segregation of schools, or to overcome the effects of residential segregation on local school demographics.\n\nIn 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court landmark decision in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" declared racial segregation in public schools unconstitutional. The process of integrating public schools met fierce resistance in the South where segregation laws took hold after the American Civil War and the Reconstruction Era of the United States. In Northern and Western states, \"de facto\" segregation was the customary practice. Due to patterns of residential segregation, a principal tool for racial integration was the use of busing. In the 1971 \"Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\" ruling, the Supreme Court ruled that the federal courts had the discretion to include busing as a desegregation tool to achieve racial balance. While the \"Swann\" decision addressed \"de jure\" segregation in the South, it failed to address \"de facto\" segregation which persisted elsewhere in the country. In Georgia, Governor Jimmy Carter saw that \"Swann\" was \"clearly a one-sided decision; the Court is still talking about the South, the North is still going free\". In the 1974 \"Milliken v. Bradley\" decision, the U.S. Supreme Court placed an important limitation on \"Swann\" when they ruled that students could be bused across district lines only when evidence of \"de jure\" segregation across multiple school districts existed.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, under federal court supervision, many school districts implemented mandatory busing plans within their district. A few of these plans are still in use today. An example of stiff resistance to desegregation busing was the Restore Our Alienated Rights movement in Boston.\n\nSince the 1980s, desegregation busing has been in decline. Even though school districts provided zero-fare bus transportation to and from students' assigned schools, those schools were in some cases many miles away from students' homes, which often presented problems to them and their families. In addition, many families were angry about having to send their children miles to another school in an unfamiliar neighborhood when there was an available school a short distance away. The movement of large numbers of white families to suburbs of large cities, so-called white flight, reduced the effectiveness of the policy. Many whites who stayed moved their children into private or parochial schools; these effects combined to make many urban school districts predominantly nonwhite, reducing any effectiveness mandatory busing may have had. In addition, school districts started using magnet schools, new school construction, and more detailed computer-generated information to refine their school assignment plans.\n\nPrior to World War  II, most public schools in the country were \"de jure\" or \"de facto\" segregated. All Southern states had Jim Crow laws mandating racial segregation of schools. Northern states and some border states were primarily white (as of 1940, populations of Detroit and Chicago were more than 90% white) and, furthermore, existing black populations were concentrated in urban ghettos partly as the result of restrictive covenants.\n\nThe origins of desegregation busing can be traced back to two major developments that occurred in the United States during the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nStarting in 1940, the Second Great Migration brought five million blacks from the agrarian South to the urban and manufacturing centers in Northern and Western cities to fill in the labor shortages during the industrial buildup of World War II and for better opportunities during the post-war economic boom. \"Shelley v. Kraemer\" (1948) allowed them to settle in formerly white neighborhoods, contributing to racial tension. Meanwhile, the post-war housing boom and the rise of suburbia allowed whites to migrate into the suburbs. By 1960, all major Northern and Western cities had sizable black populations (e.g., 23% in Chicago, 29% in Detroit, and 32% in Los Angeles). Blacks tended to be concentrated in inner cities, whereas newer suburbs of most cities were almost exclusively white.\n\nAt the same time, the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Brown vs Board of Education\" (1954) overturned racial segregation laws for public schools that had been in place in a number of states since the late 19th century, and ruled that separate but equal schools were \"inherently unequal\". Although the \"Brown\" decision affirmed principles of equality and justice, it did not specify how its ruling would promote equality in education. Thurgood Marshall and the NAACP wanted a speedy process for desegregating the school districts, but the Court waited until the following year to make its recommendations. Reasons for delaying had to do with the changes in the Court and with Chief Justice Earl Warren steering a careful course given the expected opposition from Southern states. In May 1955, the Court ruled in \"Brown  II\" that the school districts desegregate \"with all deliberate speed\". Public school administrators had to begin the process of desegregating the schools through the development of policies that would promote racial mixing. A backlash of resistance and violence ensued. Even members of Congress refused to abide by the decision. In 1956 over a hundred congressmen signed the Southern Manifesto, promising to use all legal means to undermine and reverse the Court's ruling.\n\nThe momentum continued with two additional Supreme Court decisions aimed at implementation. In 1968, the Warren Court in \"Green v. County School Board of New Kent County\", rejected a freedom of choice plan. The Court ordered the county to desegregate immediately and eliminate racial discrimination \"root and branch\". Then in 1971, the Burger Court in \"Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\" ruled that the school district must achieve racial balance even if it meant redrawing school boundaries and the use of busing as a legal tool. The impact of \"Green\" and \"Swann\" served to end all remnants of \"de jure\" segregation in the South. However, the consequence of the \"Swann\" decision ushered in new forms of resistance in subsequent decades. The decision failed to address \"de facto\" segregation.\n\nConsequently, despite being found \"inherently unequal\" in \"Brown v. Board of Education\", by the late 1960s public schools remained \"de facto\" segregated in many cities because of demographic patterns, school district lines being intentionally drawn to segregate the schools racially, and, in some cases, due to conscious efforts to send black children to inferior schools. Thus, for example, by 1969, more than nine of every ten black students in Nashville still attended all-black schools. Evidence of such de facto segregation motivated early proponents of plans to engage in conscious \"integration\" of public schools, by busing schoolchildren to schools other than their neighborhood schools, with an objective to equalize racial imbalances. Proponents of such plans argued that with the schools integrated, minority students would have equal access to equipment, facilities, and resources that the cities' white students had, thus giving all students in the city equal educational opportunities.\n\nA federal court found that in Boston, schools were constructed and school district lines drawn intentionally to segregate the schools racially. In the early 1970s, a series of court decisions found that the racially imbalanced schools trampled the rights of minority students. As a remedy, courts ordered the racial integration of school districts within individual cities, sometimes requiring the racial composition of each individual school in the district to reflect the composition of the district as a whole. This was generally achieved by transporting children by school bus to a school in a different area of the district.\n\nThe judge who instituted the Detroit busing plan said that busing \"is a considerably safer, more reliable, healthful and efficient means of getting children to school than either carpools or walking, and this is especially true for younger children\". He, therefore, included kindergarten children in the busing scheme: \"Transportation of kindergarten children for upwards of forty-five minutes, one-way, does not appear unreasonable, harmful, or unsafe in any way.\" The resultant Supreme Court case, \"Milliken v. Bradley\", imposed limits on busing. The key issue was whether a district court could order a metropolitan-wide desegregation plan between urban Detroit and suburban school districts. Busing would play a key role in the implementation phase. The Court essentially declared that federal courts did not have the authority to order inter-district desegregation unless it could be proven that suburban school districts intentionally mandated segregation policies. The implication of the decision was that suburban school districts in the North were not affected by the principles established by \"Brown\". \"De facto\" segregation was allowed to persist in the North. The courts could order desegregation where segregation patterns existed, but only within municipalities, not suburban areas. The lasting consequence of the \"Milliken\" decision is that it opened the door for whites to flee to the suburbs and not be concerned about compliance with mandatory integration policies.\n\nWith waning public support, the courts began relaxing judicial supervision of school districts during the 1990s and 2000s, calling for voluntary efforts to achieve racial balance. In the early 1990s, the Rehnquist Court ruled in three cases coming from Oklahoma City, Kansas City, and DeKalb County in Georgia that federal judges could ease their supervision of school districts \"once legally enforced segregation had been eliminated to the extent practicable\". With these decisions, the Rehnquist Court opened the door for school districts throughout the country to get away from under judicial supervision once they had achieved unitary status. Unitary Status meant that a school district had successfully eliminated segregation in dual school systems and thus was no longer bound to court-ordered desegregation policies.\n\nThen in 2002, the Supreme Court upheld a lower court decision in \"Belk v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\" which declared that the school system had achieved desegregation status and that the method to achieve integration, like busing, was unnecessary. The refusal of the Court to hear the challenges to the lower court decision effectively overturned the earlier 1971 \"Swann\" ruling.\n\nFinally, in 2007, the Roberts Court produced a contentious 5–4 ruling in \"Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1\" (PICS). The decision prohibited the use of racial classifications in student assignment plans to maintain racial balance. Whereas the Brown case ruled that racial segregation violated the Constitution, now the use of racial classifications violated the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. However, Justice Kennedy's concurrence did hold that “avoiding racial isolation” and addressing “the problem of de facto resegregation in schooling” remain compelling state interests which can be addressed by narrowly tailored programs. Writing for the minority, Justice Breyer said the \"ruling contradicted previous decisions upholding race-conscious pupil assignments and would hamper local school boards' efforts to prevent 'resegregation' in individual schools\".\n\nThe struggle to desegregate the schools received impetus from the Civil Rights Movement, whose goal was to dismantle legal segregation in all public places. The movement's efforts culminated in Congress passing the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Signed by President Lyndon Johnson, the two laws signaled the end of discriminatory voting practices and segregation of public accommodations. The importance of these two laws was the injection of both the legislative and executive branches joining the judiciary to promote racial integration. In addition, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 authorized the federal government to cut off funding if Southern school districts did not comply and also to bring lawsuits against school officials who resisted.\n\nOne argument against the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that opponents of the proposed legislation found particularly compelling was that the bill would require forced busing to achieve certain racial quotas in schools. Proponents of the bill, such as Emanuel Celler and Jacob Javits, said that the bill would not authorize such measures. Leading sponsor Sen. Hubert Humphrey wrote two amendments specifically designed to outlaw busing. Humphrey said \"if the bill were to compel it, it would be a violation [of the Constitution], because it would be handling the matter on the basis of race and we would be transporting children because of race\". While Javits said any government official who sought to use the bill for busing purposes \"would be making a fool of himself\", two years later the Department of Health, Education and Welfare said that Southern school districts would be required to meet mathematical ratios of students by busing.\n\nAnother catalyst for the development of busing was an influential sociological report on educational equality commissioned by the U.S. government in the 1960s. It was one of the largest studies in history, with more than 150,000 students in the sample. The result was a massive report of over 700 pages. That 1966 report—titled \"Equality of Educational Opportunity\" (or often simply called the \"Coleman Report\" after its author James Coleman)—contained many controversial findings. One conclusion from the study was that, while black schools in the South were not significantly underfunded as compared to white schools, and while per-pupil funding did not contribute significantly to differences in educational outcomes, socially disadvantaged black children still benefited significantly from learning in mixed-race classrooms. Thus, it was argued that busing (as opposed to simply increasing funding to segregated schools) was necessary for achieving racial equality.\n\nThe impact of the \"Brown v. Board of Education\" ruling was limited because whites and blacks tended to live in all-white or all-black communities. Initial integration in the South tended to be symbolic: for example, the integration of Clinton High School, the first public school in Tennessee to be integrated, amounted to the admission of twelve black students to a formerly all-white school.\n\n\"Forced busing\" was a term used by many to describe the mandates that generally came from the courts. Court-ordered busing to achieve school desegregation was used mainly in large, ethnically segregated school systems, including Boston, Massachusetts; Cleveland and Columbus, Ohio; Kansas City, Missouri; Pasadena and San Francisco, California; Richmond, Virginia; Detroit, Michigan; and Wilmington, Delaware. From 1972 to 1980, despite busing, the percentage of blacks attending mostly-black schools barely changed, moving from 63.6 percent to 63.3 percent.\n\nIn some southern states in the 1960s and 1970s, parents opposed to busing created new private schools. The schools, called segregation academies, were sometimes organized with the support of the local White Citizen's Council.\n\nFor the 1975–76 school year, the Louisville, Kentucky school district, which was not integrated due to whites largely moving to the suburbs, was forced to start a busing program. The first day, 1,000 protestors rallied against the busing, and a few days into the process, 8,000 to 10,000 whites from Jefferson County, Kentucky, many teenagers, rallied at the district's high schools and fought with police trying to break up the crowds. Police cars were vandalized, 200 were arrested, and people were hurt in the melee, but despite further rallies being banned the next day by Louisville's mayor, demonstrators showed up to the schools the following day. Kentucky Governor Julian Carroll sent 1,800 members of the Kentucky National Guard and stationed them on every bus. On September 26, 1975, 400 protestors held a rally at Southern High School, which was broken up by police tear gas, followed by a rally of 8,000 the next day, who marched led by a woman in a wheelchair to prevent police reprisals while cameras were running. Despite the protests, Louisville's busing program continued.\n\nCivil rights advocates see the 2007 ruling of the Roberts court as the inevitable consequence of gradual court decisions dating back to the early 1970s to ease judicial supervision and limit important tools to achieve integrated schools. Even those school districts that voluntarily created race-conscious programs are under pressure to abandon these efforts as the white parents are refusing to participate in any pupil assignment programs. In some cases, white parents filed reverse discrimination lawsuits in court. Wherever the courts have backed away from mandating school districts to implement desegregation plans, resegregation of Blacks and Latinos has increased dramatically. In 1988, 44 percent of southern black students were attending majority-white schools. In 2005, 27 percent of black students were attending majority white schools. By restricting the tools by which schools can address school segregation, many fear that the PICS decision will continue to accelerate this trend. The ruling reflects the culmination of the conservatives' central message on education that \"race should be ignored, inequalities should be blamed on individuals and schools, and existing civil rights remedies should be dismantled\". In 2001 Congress passed the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) which was promptly signed by President George W. Bush. The law put a premium on student testing, not integration, to measure academic progress. Financial penalties were incurred on schools if students did not demonstrate adequate academic performance. While initially supported by Democrats, critics say, the law has failed to adequately address the achievement gap between whites and minorities and that there are problems with implementation and inflexible provisions.\n\nIn a Gallup poll taken in the early 1970s, very low percentages of whites (4 percent) and blacks (9 percent) supported busing outside of local neighborhoods. A 1978 study by the RAND Corporation set out to find why whites were opposed to busing and concluded that it was not because they held racist attitudes, but because they believed it destroyed neighborhood schools and camaraderie and increased discipline problems. It is said that busing eroded the community pride and support that neighborhoods had for their local schools. After busing, 60 percent of Boston parents, both black and white, reported more discipline problems in schools. In the 1968, 1972, and 1976 presidential elections, candidates opposed to busing were elected each time, and Congress voted repeatedly to end court-mandated busing.\n\nCritics point out that children in the Northeast were often bused from integrated schools to less integrated schools. The percentage of Northeastern black children who attended a predominantly black school increased from 67 percent in 1968 to 80 percent in 1980 (a higher percentage than in 1954).\n\nBusing is claimed to have accelerated a trend of middle-class relocation to the suburbs of metropolitan areas. Many opponents of busing claimed the existence of \"white flight\" based on the court decisions to integrate schools. Such stresses led white middle-class families in many communities to desert the public schools and create a network of private schools.\n\nUltimately, many black leaders, from Wisconsin State Rep. Annette Polly Williams, a Milwaukee Democrat, to Cleveland Mayor Michael R. White, have come to the conclusion that it is patronizing to think that minority students need to sit next to a white student to learn, and as such led efforts to end busing.\n\nIn 1978, a proponent of busing, Nancy St. John, studied 100 cases of urban busing from the North and did not find what she had been looking for; she found no cases in which significant black academic improvement occurred, but many cases where race relations suffered due to busing, as those in forced-integrated schools had worse relations with those of the opposite race than those in non-integrated schools. Researcher David Armour, also looking for hopeful signs, found that busing \"heightens racial identity\" and \"reduces opportunities for actual contact between the races\".\nA 1992 study led by Harvard University Professor Gary Orfield, who supports busing, found black and Hispanic students lacked \"even modest overall improvement\" as a result of court-ordered busing.\n\nAnother mystery was why Asian students, segregated in some school systems, nevertheless thrived academically.\n\nDuring the 1970s, \"60 Minutes\" reported that some members of Congress, government, and the press who supported busing most vociferously sent their own children to private schools, including Senator Edward Kennedy, George McGovern, Thurgood Marshall, Phil Hart, Ben Bradlee, Senator Birch Bayh, Tom Wicker, Philip Geyelin, and Donald Fraser. Many of the judges who ordered busing also sent their children to private schools.\n\nBusing integrated school age ethnic minorities with the larger community. The \"Milliken v. Bradley\" Supreme Court decision that busing children across districts is unconstitutional limited the extent of busing to within metropolitan areas. This decision made suburbs attractive to those who wished to evade busing.\n\nSome metropolitan areas in which land values and property-tax structures were less favorable to relocation saw significant declines in enrollment of whites in public schools as white parents chose to enroll their children in private schools. Currently, most segregation occurs across school districts as large cities have moved significantly toward racial balance among their schools.\n\nRecent research by Eric Hanushek, John Kain, and Steven Rivkin has shown that the level of achievement by black students is adversely affected by higher concentrations of black students in their schools. Additionally, the impact of racial concentration appears to be greatest for high-achieving black students.\n\nIn 1965 Massachusetts passed into law the Racial Imbalance Act, which ordered school districts to desegregate or risk losing state educational funding. The first law of its kind in the nation, it was opposed by many in Boston, especially less-well-off white ethnic areas, such as the Irish-American neighborhoods of South Boston & Charlestown, Boston.\n\nUnlike Boston, which experienced a large degree of racial violence following Judge Arthur Garrity's decision to desegregate the city's public schools in 1974, Springfield quietly enacted its own desegregation busing plans. Although not as well-documented as Boston's crisis, Springfield's situation centered on the city's elementary schools. Much of the primary evidence for Springfield's busing plans stemmed from a March 1976 report by a committee for the Massachusetts Commission on Civil Rights (MCCR). According to the report, 30 of the city's 36 elementary schools were grouped into six separate districts during the 1974–75 school year, and each district contained at least one racially imbalanced school. The basic idea behind the \"six-district\" plan was to preserve a neighborhood feeling for school children while busing them locally to improve not only racial imbalances, but also educational opportunities in the school system.\n\nIn 1985, a federal court took partial control of the Kansas City, Missouri School District (KCMSD). Since the district and the state had been found severally liable for the lack of integration, the state was responsible for making sure that money was available for the program. It was one of the most expensive desegregation efforts attempted and included busing, a magnet school program, and an extensive plan to improve the quality of inner city schools. The entire program was built on the premise that extremely good schools in the inner-city area combined with paid busing would be enough to achieve integration.\n\nIn May 1968, the Southern Nevada chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) filed a lawsuit against the Clark County School District (CCSD). The NAACP wanted the CCSD to acknowledge publicly, and likewise, act against the \"de facto\" segregation that existed in six elementary schools located on the city's Westside. This area of Las Vegas had traditionally been a black neighborhood. Therefore, the CCSD did not see the need to desegregate the schools, as the cause of segregation appeared to result from factors outside of its immediate control.\n\nThe case initially entered the Eighth Judicial District Court of Nevada, but quickly found its way to the Nevada Supreme Court. According to Brown II, all school desegregation cases had to be heard at the federal level if they reached a state's highest court. As a result, the Las Vegas case, which became known as \"Kelly v. Clark County School District\", was eventually heard by the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On May 10, 1972, the Ninth Circuit handed down its decision in favor of the NAACP, which therefore required the CCSD to implement a plan for integration. The CCSD then instituted its \"Sixth Grade Center Plan\", which converted the Westside's six elementary schools into sixth-grade classrooms where nearly all of the school district's sixth graders (black and white alike) would be bused for the 1972–73 school year.\n\nIn 1963, a lawsuit, \"Crawford v. Board of Education of the City of Los Angeles\", was filed to end segregation in the Los Angeles Unified School District. The California Supreme Court required the district to come up with a plan in 1977. The board returned to court with what the court of appeal years later would describe as \"one of if not the most drastic plan of mandatory student reassignment in the nation\". A desegregation busing plan was developed, to be implemented in the 1978 school year. Two suits to stop the enforced busing plan, both titled \"Bustop, Inc. v. Los Angeles Board of Education\", were filed by the group Bustop Inc., and were petitioned to the United States Supreme Court. The petitions to stop the busing plan were subsequently denied by Justice Rehnquist and Justice Powell. California Constitutional Proposition 1, which mandated that busing follow the Equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution, passed in 1979 with 70 percent of the vote. The \"Crawford v. Board of Education of the City of Los Angeles\" lawsuit was heard in the Supreme Court in 1982. The Supreme Court upheld the decision that Proposition 1 was constitutional, and that, therefore, mandatory busing was not permissible.\n\nIn comparison with many other cities in the nation, Nashville was not a hotbed of racial violence or massive protest during the civil rights era. In fact, the city was a leader of school desegregation in the South, even housing a few small schools that were minimally integrated before the \"Brown v. Board of Education\" decision in 1954. Despite this initial breakthrough, however, full desegregation of the schools was a far cry from reality in Nashville in the mid-1950s, and thus 22 plaintiffs, including black student Robert Kelley, filed suit against the Nashville Board of Education in 1955.\n\nThe result of that lawsuit was what came to be known as the \"Nashville Plan\", an attempt to integrate the public schools of Nashville (and later all of Davidson County when the district was consolidated in 1963). The plan, beginning in 1957, involved the gradual integration of schools by working up through the grades each year starting in the fall of 1957 with first graders. Very few black children who had been zoned for white schools showed up at their assigned campus on the first day of school, and those who did met with angry mobs outside several city elementary schools. No white children assigned to black schools showed up to their assigned campuses.\n\nAfter a decade of this gradual integration strategy, it became evident that the schools still lacked full integration. Many argued that Housing Segregation was the true culprit in the matter. In 1970 the \"Kelley\" case was reintroduced to the courts. Ruling on the case was Judge Leland Clure Morton, who, after seeking advice from consultants from the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, decided the following year that to correct the problem, forced busing of the children was to be mandated, among the many parts to a new plan that was finally decided on. This was a similar plan to that enacted in Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools in Charlotte, North Carolina, the same year.\n\nWhat followed were mixed emotions from both the black and white communities. Many whites did not want their children to share schools with black children, arguing that it would decrease the quality of their education. While a triumph for some, many blacks believed that the new plan would enforce the closure of neighborhood schools such as Pearl High School, which brought the community together. Parents from both sides did not like the plan because they had no control over where their children were going to be sent to school, a problem that many other cities had during the 1970s when busing was mandated across the country. Despite the judge's decision and the subsequent implementation of the new busing plan, the city stood divided.\n\nAs in many other cities across the country at this time, many white citizens took action against the desegregation laws. Organized protests against the busing plan began before the order was even official, led by future mayoral candidate Casey Jenkins. While some protested, many other white parents began pulling their children out of the public schools and enrolling them in the numerous private schools that began to spring up almost overnight in Nashville in the 1960s and 1970s. Many of these schools continued to be segregated through the 1970s. Other white parents moved outside of the city limits and eventually outside the Davidson County line so as not to be part of the Metropolitan District and thus not part of the busing plan.\n\nIn 1979 and 1980, the \"Kelley\" case was again brought back to the courts because of the busing plan's failure to fully integrate the Metropolitan Nashville Public Schools (MNPS). The plan was reexamined and reconfigured to include some concessions made by the school board and the Kelley plaintiffs and in 1983 the new plan, which still included busing, was introduced. However, problems with \"white flight\" and private schools continued to segregate MNPS to a certain degree, a problem that has never fully been solved.\n\nIn 1970 a federal court ordered the desegregation of the public schools in Pasadena, California. At that time, the proportion of white students in those schools reflected the proportion of whites in the community, 54 percent and 53 percent, respectively. After the desegregation process began, large numbers of whites in the upper and middle classes who could afford it pulled their children from the integrated public school system and placed them into private schools instead. As a result, by 2004 Pasadena became home to 63 private schools, which educated one-third of all school-aged children in the city, and the proportion of white students in the public schools had fallen to 16 percent. In the meantime, the proportion of whites in the community has declined somewhat as well, to 37 percent in 2006. The superintendent of Pasadena's public schools characterized them as being to whites \"like the bogey-man\", and mounted policy changes, including a curtailment of busing, and a publicity drive to induce affluent whites to put their children back into public schools.\n\nIn 1974, Prince George's County, Maryland, became the largest school district in the United States forced to adopt a busing plan. The county, a large suburban school district east of Washington, D.C., was over 80 percent white in population and in the public schools. In some county communities close to Washington, there was a higher concentration of black residents than in more outlying areas. Through a series of desegregation orders after the \"Brown\" decision, the county had a neighborhood-based system of school boundaries. However, the NAACP argued that housing patterns in the county still reflected the vestiges of segregation. Against the will of the Board of Education of Prince George's County, the federal court ordered that a school busing plan be set in place. A 1974 Gallup poll showed that 75 percent of county residents were against forced busing and that only 32 percent of blacks supported it.\n\nThe transition was very traumatic as the court ordered that the plan be administered with \"all due haste\". This happened during the middle of the school term, and students even in their senior year in high school were transferred to different schools to achieve racial balance. Many high school sports teams' seasons and other typical school activities were disrupted. Life in general for families in the county was disrupted by things such as the changes in daily times to get children ready and receive them after school, transportation logistics for extracurricular activities, and parental participation activities such as volunteer work in the schools and PTA meetings.\n\nThe federal case and the school busing order was officially ended in 2001, as the \"remaining vestiges of segregation\" had been erased to the court's satisfaction. Neighborhood-based school boundaries were restored. The Prince George's County Public Schools was ordered to pay the NAACP more than $2 million in closing attorney fees and is estimated to have paid the NAACP over $20 million over the course of the case.\n\nIn April 1971, in the case \"Bradley v. Richmond School Board\", Federal District Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., ordered an extensive citywide busing program in Richmond, Virginia. When the massive busing program began in the fall of 1971, parents of all races complained about the long rides, hardships with transportation for extracurricular activities, and the separation of siblings when elementary schools at opposite sides of the city were \"paired\", (i.e., splitting lower and upper elementary grades into separate schools). The result was further white flight to private schools and to suburbs in the neighboring counties of Henrico and Chesterfield that were predominately white. In January 1972, Merhige ruled that students in Henrico and Chesterfield counties would have to be bused into the City of Richmond in order to decrease the high percentage of black students in Richmond's schools. This order was overturned by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals on June 6, 1972, barring forced busing schemes that made students cross county/city boundaries. (Note: Since 1871, Virginia has had independent cities which are not politically located within counties, although some are completely surrounded geographically by a single county. This distinctive and unusual arrangement was pivotal in the Court of Appeals decision overturning Merhige's ruling). The percentage of white students in Richmond city schools declined from 45 to 21 percent between 1960 and 1975 and continued to decline over the next several decades. By 2010 white students accounted for less than 9 percent of student enrollment in Richmond. This so-called \"white flight\" prevented Richmond schools from ever becoming truly integrated. A number of assignment plans were tried to address the non-racial concerns, and eventually, most elementary schools were \"unpaired\".\n\nIn Wilmington, Delaware, located in New Castle County, segregated schools were required by law until 1954, when, due to \"Belton v. Gebhart\" (which was later rolled into \"Brown v. Board of Education\" on appeal), the school system was forced to desegregate. As a result, the school districts in the Wilmington metropolitan area were split into eleven districts covering the metropolitan area (Alfred I. duPont, Alexis I. duPont, Claymont, Conrad, De La Warr, Marshallton-McKean, Mount Pleasant, New Castle-Gunning Bedford, Newark, Stanton, and Wilmington school districts). However, this reorganization did little to address the issue of segregation, since the Wilmington schools (Wilmington and De La Warr districts) remained predominantly black, while the suburban schools in the county outside the city limits remained predominantly white.\n\nIn 1976, the U.S. District Court, in \"Evans v. Buchanan\", ordered that the school districts of New Castle County all be combined into a single district governed by the New Castle County Board of Education. The District Court ordered the Board to implement a desegregation plan in which the students from the predominantly black Wilmington and De La Warr districts were required to attend school in the predominantly white suburb districts, while students from the predominantly white districts were required to attend school in Wilmington or De La Warr districts for three years (usually 4th through 6th grade). In many cases, this required students to be bused a considerable distance (12–18 miles in the Christina School District) because of the distance between Wilmington and some of the major communities of the suburban area (such as Newark).\n\nHowever, the process of handling an entire metropolitan area as a single school district resulted in a revision to the plan in 1981, in which the New Castle County schools were again divided into four separate districts (Brandywine, Christina, Colonial, and Red Clay). However, unlike the 1954 districts, each of these districts was racially balanced and encompassed inner city and suburban areas. Each of the districts continued a desegregation plan based upon busing.\n\nThe requirements for maintaining racial balance in the schools of each of the districts was ended by the District Court in 1994, but the process of busing students to and from the suburbs for schooling continued largely unchanged until 2001, when the Delaware state government passed House Bill 300, mandating that the districts convert to sending students to the schools closest to them, a process that continues . In the 1990s, Delaware schools would utilize the Choice program, which would allow children to apply to schools in other school districts based on space.\n\nWilmington High, which, many felt, was a victim of the busing order, closed in 1998 due to dropping enrollment. The campus would become home to Cab Calloway School of the Arts, a magnet school focused on the arts that was established in 1992. It would also house Charter School of Wilmington, which focuses on math and science, and opened up in 1996.\n\nDelaware currently has some of the highest rates in the nation of children who attend private schools, magnet schools, and charter schools, due to the perceived weaknesses of the public school system.\n\nAccording to the Civil Rights Project at Harvard University, the desegregation of U.S. public schools peaked in 1988; since then, schools have become more segregated because of changes in demographic residential patterns with continuing growth in suburbs and new communities. Jonathan Kozol has found that as of 2005, the proportion of black students at majority-white schools was at \"a level lower than in any year since 1968\". Changing population patterns, with dramatically increased growth in the South and Southwest, decreases in old industrial cities, and much increased immigration of new ethnic groups, have altered school populations in many areas.\n\nSchool districts continue to try various programs to improve student and school performance, including magnet schools and special programs related to the economic standing of families. Omaha proposed incorporating some suburban districts within city limits to enlarge its school-system catchment area. It wanted to create a \"one tax, one school\" system that would also allow it to create magnet programs to increase diversity in now predominately white schools. Ernest Chambers, a 34-year-serving black state senator from North Omaha, Nebraska, believed a different solution was needed. Some observers said that in practical terms, public schools in Omaha had been re-segregated since the end of busing in 1999.\n\nIn 2006, Chambers offered an amendment to the Omaha school reform bill in the Nebraska State Legislature which would provide for creation of three school districts in Omaha according to current racial demographics: black, white, and Hispanic, with local community control of each district. He believed this would give the black community the chance to control a district in which their children were the majority. Chambers' amendment was controversial. Opponents to the measure described it as \"state-sponsored segregation\".\n\nThe authors of a 2003 Harvard study on re-segregation believe current trends in the South of white teachers leaving predominately black schools is an inevitable result of federal court decisions limiting former methods of civil rights-era protections, such as busing and affirmative action in school admissions. Teachers and principals cite other issues, such as economic and cultural barriers in schools with high rates of poverty, as well as teachers' choices to work closer to home or in higher-performing schools. In some areas black teachers are also leaving the profession, resulting in teacher shortages.\n\nEducation conservatives argue that any apparent separation of races is due to patterns of residential demographics not due to court decisions. They argue that the \"Brown\" decision has been achieved and that there is no segregation in the way that existed before the ruling. They further argue that employing race to impose desegregation policies discriminates and violates \"Brown\"s central warning of using racial preferences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1689858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1689858", "title": "Dual enrollment", "text": "Dual enrollment\n\nIn the United States, dual enrollment (DE), also called concurrent enrollment, programs allow students to be enrolled in two separate, academically related institutions. Generally, it refers to high school students taking college or university courses. Less commonly, it may refer to any individual who is participating in two related programs.\n\nDual enrollment was first started in 1955 by the University of Connecticut under the direction of Provost Albert Waugh. It was his belief that the senior year in high school was not challenging enough for many students, resulting in student boredom and disinterest in learning - now called senioritis. He believed that it was the University's responsibility to engage with the high schools to offer introductory University courses at the high school, allowing a more rigorous academic experience and giving students a head start for college. \n\nIn the mid-1990's a movement started to formalize a national accreditation body for concurrent and dual enrollment programs. In March 1997 the first national meeting of concurrent enrollment professionals was convened by Syracuse University at the American Association for Higher Education conference. Two years later, in 1999, 20 institutions of higher education officially established the National Alliance of Concurrent Enrollment Partnerships - NACEP - by adopting bylaws and a mission statement. \n\nStudents enrolled in secondary school may be simultaneously enrolled at a local institution of higher learning, such as a community college or university. If students pass their college classes, they receive credit that may be applied toward their high school diploma and toward a college degree or certificate. Many state governments within the United States have recognized the benefit of dual enrollment and have consequently instructed their public universities to begin collaborating with local schools. Some private universities also participate. A 2011 study concluded that student experience differs dramatically from one program to the next.\n\nDual enrollment can be advantageous to students because it allows them to get a head start on their college careers. In some cases, the student may even be able to attain an Associate of Arts or equivalent degree shortly before or after their high school graduation. Furthermore, participation in dual enrollment may ease the transition from high school to college by giving students a sense of what college academics are like. In addition, dual enrollment may be a cost-efficient way for students to accumulate college credits because courses are often paid for and taken through the local high school.\n\nA number of different models for dual enrollment programs exist, one of which is concurrent enrollment. Concurrent enrollment is defined as credit hours earned when a high school student is taking a college course for both high school and college credit, during the high school day, on the high school campus, taught by a qualified high school instructor. Many prominent universities started the movement of concurrent enrollment - UConn Early College Experience and Syracuse University Project Advance. In the George Washington Early College Program (GWECP-AA), students at the School Without Walls Senior High School are enrolled at the George Washington University and take a full course-load at the university, along with other undergraduate students. These college courses are used to fulfill the students' high school graduation requirements for District of Columbia Public Schools.\n\nThe following states offer Dual Enrollment-like programs. They are known in their state by the following titles:\nDual enrollment-like programs come with a cost, whether paid for by the student, school district or a combination of other state funded programs. Out of the fifty states in the United States, parents of students interested in the program are primarily responsible for the tuition cost in nine of those states. In Louisiana, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon and Tennessee, the states themselves are responsible for student tuition payment and in other states like Florida, the school district is responsible for the student dual enrollment program tuition. States may choose to go into a contract with a secondary institution and may be reimbursed upon students' satisfactory grade achievement. States and school districts may also choose to cover all or part of the tuition cost with a max college credit limit before the student is responsible for payment. \n\nRunning Start programs allow students to take college classes at their local community college. One of the main differences between Running Start and a regular dual enrollment program is the cost. The Running Start program makes tuition rates lower for high school students. Since FAFSA does not allow high school students to receive student aid, Running Start removes some of the barriers high school students face in taking college courses.\n\nParents of students who are enrolled in a dual enrollment program may qualify for a tuition and fees tax deduction for up to $4,000 per year.\n\nFrom a financial stand point, in the United States some aspects grant funding to both the high school and colleges per student. It can be hard, unless explicitly states by law, to determine which institution should receive the funding. There have been cases in the past where both institutions claimed the state funds leading to the state paying for the student twice.\n\nA study on students in dual enrollment where participants were given pseudonyms and interviewed on their thoughts on what dual enrollment offered revealed some positive and some negative themes that appeared across the interviews. Among the positives, students mentioned “exposure, learning the hidden curriculum, and independence and freedom.”\n\nStudents further explained each theme during their interviews. Exposure referred to the general atmosphere of the college experience. Students were able to become more comfortable with being in a college setting and were more prepared for attending college once they graduated high school. “Learning the hidden curriculum” referred to students learning that college wasn’t just about learning the material a class was teaching them. They also needed to learn study habits, how to ask professors for help, and other beneficial student practices, all of which contrast to high school experiences. A student (whose pseudonym is Carmen) noted that high school teachers tend to hold the student’s hand and give them as much help as they can. This contrasts to college professors who only help students when asked to do so. “Independence and freedom” was often used by the students to describe themselves overcoming fear and maturing. Most students explained how they had much more freedom and often thought to themselves “I can do whatever I want.” These students then realized the consequences of doing whatever they felt like, and learned from their mistakes, and learned. One student even reflected on the actions of her past and said, “I feel so disrespectful now, now that I think about it.”\n\nThe students didn’t have only positive things to say about dual enrollment. Three themes were found in their interviews: “issues in credit and grades, negative interactions with others, and limited support systems.”\n\nThe biggest problem brought up by students was “issues in credit and grades.” Students often lamented how their grades in college classes would affect their overall high school transcript and quite often result in a lower GPA. They were worried how it would affect their acceptance rate in other colleges later on. “Negative interactions with others” was described by students with how they were treated. The students felt cast out as many college students would treat them differently and would even get remarks that made them felt threatened. The dual enrollment students reflect on their past actions might have warranted such treatment as Roger says, “we weren’t very mature.” The final negative theme – “limited support systems” – stems to both the college and the high school. Students described that, once enrolled in dual enrollment, their high school counsellors and other faculty seemed to work with the students less. They felt like they were no longer apart of the general group of the high school. In the college setting, where they were expected to know material from courses they may have not taken yet. The college tutoring sessions were held during times that the dual enrollment students couldn’t make. As Alicia says, “I didn’t feel like an actual student.”\n\nA survey taken by teachers, counselors, and principals from 35 high schools was held to learn the opinions of faculty on dual enrollment (the term concurrent enrollment was used in the study). When asked how the school was impacted, the responses were positive all around. Many of the responses focused on students being able to earn college credit and be introduced to a college atmosphere. When asked how the students were impacted, most of the responses were positive as well, except the survey item “the student considered for the first time going to college.” Many respondents were neutral with only 35% agreeing. Students were thought to have already planned to move on to college before trying dual enrollment. The faculty commented on how dual enrollment gave students the opportunity to gain college credit. Teachers focused on how the increased difficulty of college courses prepared them for later. Counselors and teachers both noticed personal gains in students as well. Students had an increase in confidence and were willing to participate in more challenging studies. \n\nAlthough dual enrollment generally has a positive success rate in relation to college enrollment and completion, the results for low-income students and students of color displays a major difference. As a whole, college completion rates among dual enrollment students and non-dual enrollment students is higher at 22 percent as well as college enrollment rates being 34 percent higher. When looking exclusively at dual credit students of color enrollment and completion rates compared to non-dual credit the numbers show an obvious positive outcome with a 26 percent higher enrollment rate and 14 percent higher completion rate. Looking at those success rates against the success rates of other students researchers found a gap ranging from 4 to 8 percent. A study that took place in Florida was able to combat these results with their own when they found the number of dual credit students of color and non-dual credit to enroll and complete college was both equal. \n\nA University of Connecticut study (2016) indicated that students in middle-income and lower-income family quartiles had higher participation rates in concurrent enrollment programs than students in higher-income family quartiles. One attributing factor for these findings is that an increasing number of first-generation students and middle income families see the value of high-access low-cost opportunities because attending college is still aspirational and not guaranteed for students in these groups. \nConcurrent and dual enrollment programs that waive or reduce fees to students participating in the Federal Free & Reduced Lunch program can positively impact participation rates for these students.\n\nColleges may create partnerships with schools that allow high school students to enroll in college classes or programs. Most universities have some degree of interdepartmental dual enrollment coordination. Arizona State University, for example, partnered with a group of Phoenix, Arizona charter schools called ASU Preparatory Academy. The partnerships grants students the ability to enroll in one of ASU's online Global Freshman Academy courses as either independent study electives or while taking a similar higher level high school course.\n\nHigh schools might also have a partnerships with a group of colleges, such as Five Colleges (Massachusetts), Seven Sisters (Northeast), or Five Colleges of Ohio. That allows students to benefit from the collective knowledge of all universities and prevent them from duplicating unnecessary course offerings at each institution. Most universities have some degree of interdepartmental dual enrollment coordination.\n\n"}
{"id": "250067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250067", "title": "Education in Hong Kong", "text": "Education in Hong Kong\n\nEducation in Hong Kong is largely modelled on that of the United Kingdom, particularly the English system. It is overseen by the Education Bureau and the Social Welfare Department.\n\nIn the 2013/14 school year, there are 569 primary schools, 514 secondary day schools and 61 special schools.\nThe academic year begins mid-year, usually starting in September.\nSmall village Chinese schools were observed by the British missionaries when they arrived circa 1843. Anthony Sweeting believes those small village schools existed in Chek Chue (modern-day town of Stanley), Shek Pai Wan, Heung Kong Tsai (modern-day Aberdeen) and Wong Nai Chong on Hong Kong Island, although proof is no longer available.\n\nOne of the earliest schools with reliable records was Li Ying College established in 1075 in present-day New Territories. By 1860 Hong Kong had 20 village schools. Chinese who were wealthy did not educate their children in Hong Kong, but instead sent them to major Chinese cities, such as Canton, for traditional Chinese education.\n\nThe changes came with the arrival of the British in 1841. At first Hong Kong's education came from Protestant and Catholic missionaries who provided social services. Italian missionaries began to provide boy-only education to British and Chinese youth in 1843.\n\nBy 1861 Frederick Stewart became \"The Founder of Hong Kong Education\" for integrating a modern western-style education model into the Colonial Hong Kong school system. In 1862, the first government school, Queen's College (then Government Central School) was set up, with Stewart serving as the first Headmaster.\n\nOne of the much contested debate was whether schools should offer Vernacular education, teaching in Chinese at all. Education was considered a luxury for the elite and the rich. The first school to open the floodgate of western medical practice to East Asia was the Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese. The London Missionary Society and Sir James Cantlie started the Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese in 1887 (although, the 'for Chinese' was later dropped from the name). In addition, the London Missionary Society founded Ying Wa Girls' School in 1900. Belilios Public School was a girls' secondary school founded in 1890 – the first government school in Hong Kong that provided bilingual education in English and Chinese. The push for Chinese education in a British system did not begin until the rise of social awareness of the Chinese community following the 1919 May Fourth Movement and 1934 New Life Movement in China. Educating the poor did not become a priority until they accounted for the majority of the population. Financial issues were addressed in the 1970s.\n\nA small group of South Asian Hong Kongers marched through Central demanding more schooling in the English language on 3 June 2007. \n\nPre-school education in Hong Kong is not free and fees are payable by pupils' parents. However, parents whose children have the right of abode in Hong Kong can pay for part of their fees with a voucher from the government under the Pre-primary Education Voucher Scheme (PEVS). In 2013, the amount of subsidy under the PEVS is $16,800.\n\nEvery child in Hong Kong, without any reasonable excuse, is required by law to attend a primary school after the child has attained the age of 6. It is also required to attend a secondary school after primary education and is completed before he/she attains the age of 19. However, a child who has completed Form 3 of secondary education and whose parent can produce evidence to the satisfaction of the Permanent Secretary for Education, shall not apply. Education in the public sector is free.\n\nSecondary education is separated into junior and senior years. In junior years, the curriculum is a broad one where history, geography and science are studied alongside subjects that have already been studied at primary schools. In senior years, this becomes more selective and students have a choice over what and how much is to be studied. Almost all schools but PLK Vicwood KT Chong Sixth Form College and its feeder junior secondary college have both sessions.\n\nCommerce stream in secondary schools are considered vocational in nature. Students in the Commerce stream would usually enter the workplace to gain practical work experience by this point. Further education pursuit in Hong Kong Institute of Vocational Education or universities abroad are common. The Manpower Development Committee (MDC) advises the government on co-ordination, regulation and promotion of the sector. In addition, the Vocational Training Council (VTC) ensures the level of standard is met through the \"Apprentice Ordinance\". The VTC also operate three skills-centres for people with disabilities. secondary schools in Hong Kong are going to be cut down to only two years due to the switch in the government.\n\nInternational institutions provide both primary and secondary education in Hong Kong. International institutions like schools within the English Schools Foundation, Li Po Chun United World College, Hong Kong International School, American International School Hong Kong, Chinese International School, Victoria Shanghai Academy German Swiss International School, Canadian International School, Hong Kong Japanese School, French International School, Yew Chung International School, Po Leung Kuk Choi Kai Yau School, Singapore International School and Harrow International School Hong Kong teach with English as the primary language, with some sections bilingual in German, French and Chinese. International school students rarely take Hong Kong public exams. British students take GCSE, IGCSE and A-levels. US students take APs. Increasingly, international schools follow the International Baccalaureate (IBDP) program, and enter universities through non-JUPAS direct entry. International students apply on a per school basis, whereas Hong Kong local students submit 1 application for multiple local universities as a JUPAS applicant.\n\nHigher education remains exclusive in Hong Kong. Fewer than 20,000 students are offered places funded by the government every year, although this number has more than doubled over the last three decades.\n\nAs a result, many continue their studies abroad. The following is some of the destinations that students in Hong Kong go to for tertiary education and their respective numbers.\n\nAdult education is popular, since it gives middle age adults a chance to obtain a tertiary degree. The concept was not common several decades ago. The EMB has commissioned two non-profit school operators to provide evening courses. The operators have fee remission schemes to help adult learners in need of financial assistance. Adult education courses also provide Vocational Training Council through universities and private institutions. The Open University of Hong Kong is one establishment for mature students. Several secondary schools operate adult education sessions, the first being Cheung Sha Wan Catholic Secondary School, while PLK Vicwood KT Chong Sixth Form College offers associate degree and joint-degree programmes.\n\nThe Education Bureau provides education services for immigrant children from Mainland China and other countries, as well as non-Cantonese-speaking Hong Kong children. Free \"Induction Programmes\" of up to 60 hours have been offered to NAC by non-government organisations. The EMB also provides a 6-month full-time \"Initiation Programme\" incorporating both academic and non-academic support services, for NAC before they are formally placed into mainstream schools. Hayes Tang (2002) provided a good sociology of education thesis on the NACs' adaptation and school performance\n\nAs of January 2015, the International Schools Consultancy (ISC) listed Hong Kong as having 175 international schools. ISC defines an 'international school' in the following terms \"ISC includes an international school if the school delivers a curriculum to any combination of pre-school, primary or secondary students, wholly or partly in English outside an English-speaking country, or if a school in a country where English is one of the official languages, offers an English-medium curriculum other than the country’s national curriculum and is international in its orientation.\" This definition is used by publications including \"The Economist\". There are top-rated exempted courses where courses offered overseas are collaborated with local institutions in Hong Kong to broaden the scope of Tertiary Education in Hong Kong. MIT has an innovation node in Hong Kong.\n\nIn addition to the international day school, Hong Kong's Japanese population is served by a weekend education programme, the Hong Kong Japanese Supplementary School (HKJSS; 香港日本人補習授業校 \"Honkon Nihonjin Hoshū Jugyō Kō\").\n\nFollowing the introduction of the comprehensive system in the 1960s in the UK, children in Hong Kong transformed from the old education system to the new.\n\nMany primary schools in Hong Kong offer half-day schooling, splitting by AM and PM to handle the demand. The two sessions are usually treated as separate school entities with two different headmasters. To make up for the time of shortened half days, students are sometimes required to attend alternate Saturdays. Most primary schools are gradually moving to full school day systems as government policy aims to phase out half-day schooling over time as resource permits.\n\nDue to the drop in birth rate in recent years, many primary schools were forced to cut classes, cut teachers and even close down. There have been debates that one should seize the opportunity to promote small class teaching. Doing so could mitigate the pressure of teachers, class and school reductions, on top of improving ratio of students to teachers.\n\nGood behaviour has always been emphasised in Hong Kong, to the point that it is sometimes said to hinder pupils' development. Misbehavior is recorded and shown on school reports. The Education Bureau (EDB) provides the 'Guidelines for Student Disciplines' to schools to as guidance in creating a disciplined education environment. It outlines the principles and policies regarding student discipline, the organisational structure of a school discipline team, the roles and responsibilities of the discipline master and mistress, and discipline strategies illustrated with case studies.\n\nEducation in Hong Kong has often been described as 'spoon fed'. Cram schools in Hong Kong have also become a popular standard in parallel to regular education. Teachers focus on helping students getting high scores in the major exams and heavily rely on textbook knowledge rather than exchanging ideas and essence of the subjects.\n\nWith the advent of education reform there is a greater emphasis on group projects, open-ended assignments on top of traditional homework. The current workload of a primary student in Hong Kong includes approximately two hours of schoolwork nightly. Along with extra-curricular activities, Hong Kong's education has become synonymous for leaning towards quantity. As early as March 1987, education advisory inspectors became concerned with the excessive amounts of \"mechanical work and meaningless homework\". In particular, history education has been recognised as ineffective, with critics claiming that the curriculum is not capable of delivering a sense of identity. Not only that, students have to memorise the whole history texts, thereby indicating that rote-learning has greater priority than absorbing and understanding material.\n\nSome have criticised the system for having too narrow of a stream focus, too early on. Legco Member Alan Leong argued in a guest lecture at the Chinese University of Hong Kong that secondary level science students are incapable of participating in meaningful discussions on history, arts, or literature. Vice versa journalists of arts stream background are incapable of accurately discussing technological issues. The narrow focus of education in Hong Kong has been a concern.\n\nThe pervasive perception from observers in overseas education institutions generally is that a typical Hong Kong student compared with other students, even against other students in the Asia region, lacks systematic decision-making confidence and relies on repetition and undeveloped answers. This deviates from the common benchmark of intellect where value propositions are generated from innovation and distinctive solutions, and this has led to much schism in the debate of educational direction of Hong Kong, where the populace makes no such aspiration for intellect but seek constant reaffirmation of the value of myriad certificates obtained through pedagogy throughout their working lives. The desperation to seek standing in life through education is further highlighted by severe ironies such as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48854150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48854150", "title": "Federal Centre for Health Education", "text": "Federal Centre for Health Education\n\nThe Federal Centre for Health Education (; BZgA) is a federal authority within the portfolio of the German Federal Ministry of Health. The Authority has its headquarters in Cologne and is headed by Heidrun Thaiss. The BZgA was founded in 1967. \n\nThe BZgA has the task of promoting the willingness of citizens to act responsibly to meet their health needs and to use the health care system properly. The main focuses of the BZgA are AIDS prevention, sex education, drug abuse prevention for both legal and illegal drugs, child and youth health, healthy eating and organ donation. In addition, the Federal Centre for Health Education performs studies and investigations in order to improve their educational work. The studies are published regularly. \n\nAt its inception the BZgA had the following tasks:\n"}
{"id": "58595070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58595070", "title": "Financial wellness", "text": "Financial wellness\n\nFinancial wellness refers to the “overall financial health of an individual” and is sometimes used interchangeably with financial well-being. Employee financial wellness programs (FWPs) are work-placed programs that both “access and support” the financial wellness of employees.\n\nMore than 3 in 4 full-time American workers live from paycheck to paycheck with a lack of savings for emergencies. As such, emergencies such as a broken boiler or an urgent medical expense can send a worker into a spiral of debt.\n\nMany established institutions have offered financial wellness programs for a number of years with seemingly limited success. Although the situation has improved somewhat with the recovery in the economy, a 2018 report from the Federal Reserve Board stated that, in 2017, 41% of adults “would either have to borrow or sell something or not be able to pay if faced with a $400 emergency expense” which they described as “disconcertingly large”. \n\nIn response to these issues there has been a growing awareness of the concept of financial wellness and the benefits of workplace programs to provide support to employees.\n\nRecent advances in technology are providing employers the opportunity to offer the option of money management tools to their employees, which Matthew Boyle writes, may help them break the paycheck-to-paycheck cycle. For example, in December 2017 Walmart announced that it was launching a new personal money management tool for its associates that had been developed with the assistance of technology partners. According to Matthew Boyle, Walmart saw more than 200,000 of their American employees adopt the tool just in its initial stages. An app connects directly to their bank account in order to calculate the users’ imminent expenses and show them how much funds they have available to spend in real time. A key feature is that it allows employees to access earned wages (via Instapay) ahead of scheduled paychecks potentially avoiding bounced checks or the need for payday lenders when an unexpected auto repair bill, or other large expense arises, sending them further into debt. Financial app Even is currently focusing \"on a new service that will automatically divert small sums of money into a separate savings account to reach a preset goal.\"\n\nFinancial wellness concerns the management of the financial health of an individual, supporting a balance between their short-term and long-term financial needs. Financial wellness programs work through employers supporting their employees’ goals with a program that provides them with the \"ability to track their progress and accomplishments, factoring in their goals\". From the perspective of employees, financial wellness programs are successful if they have \"minimal financial stress; a strong financial foundation (little or no debt, an emergency savings fund and are living below their means); and a plan they are following that puts them on track to meet future financial goals.\"\n\nA 2013 report by Grinstein-Weiss and Lass suggested that “successful financial wellness programs could offer opportunities for employees to improve their financial management, decision-making, and credit scores; increase job stability, work satisfaction, and short- and long-term investments; and decrease debt and financial stress.”\n\nAccording to Grinstein-Weiss et al., a number of recent studies have “linked employee financial wellness to improved employer outcomes.” The returns are potentially large. According to a report by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau the return on investment for employers from comprehensive health wellness programs appears to be between $1 and $3 for each dollar invested and early evidence suggests that FWPs can be similarly effective.\n\nFinancial wellness programs prioritize the recognition of the relationship with money and their financial literacy by employers, which is recognised in the National Financial Literacy Month. A good financial wellness program can lead to less physical illness due to lower stress rates, a higher level of focus and in turn, an improved level of productivity. Robert Powell writes that FWPs can reduce the number of employee absences, as well as disability and worker’s compensation costs and provide lower employee turnover and lower healthcare, therefore, directly benefiting employers’ return on investment.\n\nA report from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau commented on the relationship between productivity, spending and financial wellness: \nCurrently, most workplaces do not offer financial wellness programs as an employee benefit, although a survey of 400 companies revealed that many bussinesses plan to focus on financial wellness in the future.\n\nRecently a report by Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2018 survey found that although 48% of the employees they surveyed were offered workplace financial welfare plans only 31% participate in them because the services offered were not of interest to them.\n\nA 2018 PwC survey found that employees certainly wanted help with their financial decisions but for the majority, in practice, this means access to unbiased counselors providing help to understand and how to use the benefit they were being offered. The International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans (2018) survey of employers found that one-to-one meetings were considered the most effective approach with the highest levels of participation.\n\n"}
{"id": "443004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=443004", "title": "Gaelscoil", "text": "Gaelscoil\n\nA Gaelscoil (; plural: \"Gaelscoileanna\") is an Irish-medium school in Ireland: the term refers especially to Irish-medium schools outside the Irish-speaking regions or Gaeltacht. Over 50,000 students attend Gaelscoileanna on the island of Ireland. A further over 13,000 students are receiving their primary and second level education through Irish in the Gaeltacht. Gaelscoileanna and Irish-medium schools in the Gaeltacht are supported and represented by Gaeloideachas and An Chomhairle um Oideachas Gaeltachta & Gaelscolaíochta or COGG in the Republic of Ireland and by Gaeloideachas and Comhairle na Gaelscolaíochta in Northern Ireland.\n\nStudents in the Gaelscoileanna acquire the Irish language through language immersion, and study the standard curriculum through it. Gaelscoileanna, unlike English-medium schools, have the reputation of producing competent Irish speakers. English-medium schools, in contrast, produce relatively few fluent Irish speakers, despite the Irish language being an obligatory subject in the Republic of Ireland in both primary and secondary school. This has been attributed in part to the lack of Irish-language immersion programs.\n\nTheir success is due to effective (though limited) community support and an efficient administrative infrastructure. They are distinguished by being the product, not of state policy, but of a genuine community movement.\n\nGaelscoileanna have undergone a striking expansion over the last few decades, although there are now concerns that rules limiting the founding of new schools is affecting the establishment of new Irish-medium education in areas where there is a competition amongst educational patrons.\n\nIn 1972 there were only 11 such schools at primary level and five at secondary level in the Republic of Ireland. As of September 2017 there are 180 gaelscoileanna at primary level, attended by over 40,000 students, and 31 gaelcholáistí and 17 aonaid Ghaeilge (Irish language units) at secondary level, attended by over 11,000 students in non-Gaeltacht areas across Ireland. 35 of these primary schools, 2 of the postprimary schools and 4 of the postprimary units operated are in Northern Ireland. Additionally, some 4,000 children attend Irish-medium preschools or Naíonraí outside the Gaeltacht with around 1,000 children attending \"Naíonraí\" within the Gaeltacht. There is now at least one gaelscoil in every county in Ireland with over 40 in County Dublin; 30 in County Cork and 13 in County Antrim included.\n\nGaelscoileanna have acquired a reputation for providing excellent academic results at a moderate cost. They have been described as a system of \"positive social selection,” giving better than average access to tertiary education and the social and employment opportunities which follow. An analysis of \"feeder\" schools which send students on to tertiary level institutions shows that 22% of Irish-medium schools send all their students on to tertiary level, compared to 7% of English-medium schools.\n\nSupporters argue that the bilingualism resulting from early acquisition of another language is of general intellectual benefit and helps children to learn still other languages. Irish-language advocates of the immersion approach sometimes refer to studies showing that bilingual children have advantages over monoglot children in other subjects.\n\nAt present over 11,000 students on the island of Ireland are receiving secondary education through Irish outside Gaeltacht areas. These include around 10,000 students in the Republic of Ireland. Two new second-level gaelscoileanna opened in Ireland in 2014: Coláiste Ghlór na Mara in Balbriggan and Gaelcholáiste an Phiarsaigh in Rathfarnham (both in County Dublin). Gaelcholáiste Charraig Uí Leighin opened in Carrigaline and Northern Ireland's second gaelcholáiste, Gaelcholáiste Dhoire, opened in Dungiven Castle in 2015. There are also campaigns running for several new gaelcholáistí in other areas.\n\nThe function and future of the Gaelscoileanna in the Republic of Ireland will be affected by the 20-Year Strategy for the Irish Language 2010-2030, published in December 2010. This emphasises the importance of offering all children in primary schools in Ireland the opportunity to experience partial immersion in the formative years of primary education. It calls for primary teachers to have additional immersion classes to improve their competence in the language. This would involve teaching some subjects such as Mathematics and Science in Irish. Such a policy, if implemented effectively, may mean that the gaelscoileanna will no longer be the largest means of promoting Irish/English language bilingualism in schoolchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "369652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369652", "title": "George W. Lewis", "text": "George W. Lewis\n\nGeorge William Lewis (March 10, 1882 – July 12, 1948) was the Director of Aeronautical Research at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) until he retired in 1947. He taught at Swarthmore College from 1910 to 1917.\n\nIn 1910, George Lewis graduated from Cornell University with a Master's degree in Mechanical Engineering and proceeded to teach at Swarthmore College until 1917. He became involved in aircraft engines which led to his membership in NACA's Power Plants Subcommittee. In 1919, he was appointed as NACA's first Executive Officer. Five years later, he was named as the Director of Aeronautical Research, a position he held until his retirement. During those years, Lewis was stationed in Washington, D.C. to handle many of NACA's political and bureaucratic issues. At the same time, he oversaw research advancements and technical publications at NACA's Langley Research Center. During his time as director, engineers at the Langley facility were responsible for numerous advancements in the understanding of aerodynamics. These achievements earned Lewis international renown and NACA expanded from a few employees to several thousand during his tenure.\n\nDr. Hugh L. Dryden succeeded Lewis as the Director of Aeronautical Research at NACA. The NASA John H. Glenn Research Center at Lewis Field in Cleveland, Ohio is partly named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49092909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49092909", "title": "Ghana Code Club", "text": "Ghana Code Club\n\nThe Ghana Code Club is an after-school program in Ghana, Africa, that teaches children computer programming skills. The program was founded by Ernestina Edem Appiah, and the program is organized in various schools by Healthy Career Initiative, a nonprofit organization in Ghana. Healthy Career Initiative was also founded by Appiah, in 2007. Ghana Code Club is a digital fun club that is being organized in schools in Ghana for children between the ages of 8–17. It is an after-school extracurricular program.\n\nAs of January 2016 in Ghana, the present information communications technology curriculum in Ghana does not include learning activities for technology. The club encourages children to attain modern skills in computer technology to help them with future careers. Some of the activities include learning how to create websites, animations and video games. In January 2016, the program began operations in five schools, and the organization is prepared to expand into most schools in Ghana in 2016, with a goal of educating at least 20,000 children.\n\nChallenges faced by the Ghana Code Club includes problems with internet connectivity in Ghana, and access to capital and computer equipment. As a result, a significant portion of the classes are presently taught on paper with printouts.\n\nThe founder and CEO of Ghana Code Club is Ernestina Edem Appiah, Her interest was initiated by an article she read about children in the United Kingdom learning coding (computer programming). Appiah was one of the BBC's 100 Women.\n\n"}
{"id": "4121145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4121145", "title": "Glossary of education terms (T–Z)", "text": "Glossary of education terms (T–Z)\n\nThis glossary of education-related terms is based on how they commonly are used in Wikipedia articles. This page contains terms starting with T – Z. Select a letter from the table of contents to find terms on other pages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4491358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4491358", "title": "Handbook", "text": "Handbook\n\nA handbook is a type of reference work, or other collection of instructions, that is intended to provide ready reference. The term originally applied to a small or portable book containing information useful for its owner, but the Oxford English Dictionary defines the current sense as \"any book...giving information such as facts on a particular subject, guidance in some art or occupation, instructions for operating a machine, or information for tourists.\" \n\nA handbook is sometimes referred to as a vade mecum (Latin, \"go with me\") or pocket reference. It may also be referred to as an enchiridion.\n\nHandbooks may deal with any topic, and are generally compendiums of information in a particular field or about a particular technique. They are designed to be easily consulted and provide quick answers in a certain area. For example, the MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers is a reference for how to cite works in MLA style, among other things. Examples of engineering handbooks include \"Perry's Chemical Engineers' Handbook\", \"Marks Standard Handbook for Mechanical Engineers\", and the \"CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "15915390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15915390", "title": "Haut de la Garenne", "text": "Haut de la Garenne\n\nThe Jersey Accommodation and Activity Centre is a building just north of Gorey in the parish of Saint Martin, Jersey, in the Channel Islands. It was formerly known as the Industrial School, the Jersey Home for Boys, and Haut de la Garenne. Its previous uses have included being an industrial school, a children's home, a military signal station, a television filming location, and a youth hostel. In 2008 it became the focus of the largest investigation into child abuse ever conducted in Jersey.\n\nHaut de la Garenne began in 1867 as an industrial school for \"young people of the lower classes of society and neglected children\". The construction of the school was funded at a cost of £2,410 by the Assembly of Governor, Bailiff and Jurats in order to house and educate boys formerly looked after at the General Hospital in Saint Helier. On 22 June 1867, 45 boys were transferred by coach to the new institution, overseen by Jurats Neel and Aubin, Charles Simon, director of the hospital, and Mr. Higginbottom, master of the new school.\n\nBy 1900 it had become the Jersey Home for Boys and continued as a children's home for many years. In 1921 the States of Jersey took over the buildings and most of the powers of the Assembly of Governor, Bailiff and Jurats. During the German Occupation during the Second World War, the German military used the building as a signal station. Following the Liberation of 1945, the building continued as a children's home with responsibility being taken over by the Education Committee. On 17 March 1960 the States adopted an act changing the name of the institution to Haut de la Garenne. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s the home received both boys and girls, but as care policy developed the number of children in care was reduced from 1970 onwards. A new wing for staff accommodation was built on the western part of the site in 1970. After the home closed in 1986, the building was used to portray a police station in the TV detective series \"Bergerac\".\n\nThe Public Works Committee took over the building from the Education Committee in 1986. The building was put to a number of temporary uses while a permanent solution to using the building was considered. It was considered as a potential site for the Territorial Army unit. St. Michael's Preparatory School leased a dormitory block for a time, and the headmaster proposed leasing the whole site for educational and sporting purposes. In 1989 the dormitory wing was converted for use by the Education Committee as temporary respite care for children with special education needs. However the Public Works Committee decided in favour of selling the property in order to purchase a commercial site in Saint Helier for development as housing, or of agreeing a land swap with a hotel in Saint Helier whereby the hotel would develop Haut de la Garenne as a luxury hotel and thereby free the urban hotel site for housing development. The proposal for a luxury hotel development spurred parishioners of Saint Martin to call a Parish Assembly by means of a requête. This Assembly, held in August 1989, voted to oppose a hotel development at Haut de la Garenne, but indicated that a proposal for a sheltered housing development might be acceptable.\n\nIn 1991 the States approved a scheme to retain the 1970 wing for respite care, convert the main building for sheltered housing, and construct new housing on the eastern part of the site. This decision was reversed, and in 1992 the Planning and Environment Committee took over administration of the site from Public Services, and the building was used for temporary accommodation for visiting groups of musicians and sportspeople, especially during festivals. Discussions continued on how to use the 2,137 square metres of available building floor area\n\nOn 8 December 1998 the States voted to establish a trust to manage and operate Haut de la Garenne as a residential centre. On 22 October 2002 the States adopted a \"Law granting an Act of Incorporation to the Association called \"The Haut de la Garenne Trust\"\".\n\nThe States spent £2.25m in 2003 to convert the building into a youth hostel, part of the Youth Hostels Association (England & Wales) (YHA). The youth hostel opened for business on 19 March 2004. The building was also used for occasional conferences.\n\nPolice moved into the hostel in February 2008 as part of an investigation into historical child abuse. The investigation showed numerous instances of child abuse against past residents, and led to the conviction of a former resident and a former member of staff.\n\nInitial reports suggested that human remains and other evidence of torture and/or murder had been found. These reports were later denied by the police.\n\nThe hostel closed as the police investigation commenced and YHA indicated that they did not wish to re-use the premises. The building was subsequently used for accommodation for military units visiting Jersey.\n\nIn 2011 journalist Leah McGrath Goodman was banned from the UK for two years while doing research on the abuse allegations. Politicians such as John Hemming and Trevor Pitman attempted to get the ban lifted so she could finish her work and publish her findings. The ban was lifted in 2013.\n\nIn July 2013, a major inquiry into the allegations led by a senior UK judge was announced. In its report in July 2017 the inquiry recommended that Haut de la Garenne be demolished as it was a reminder of an \"unhappy past or shameful history\".\n\nIn April 2011 it was relaunched under a new branding as the Jersey Accommodation and Activity Centre.\n\nThe Jersey Accommodation and Activity Centre offers bed and breakfast accommodation as a hub for activity holidays in Jersey. The building is also intended to act as a learning centre, offering classes in business and administration, cookery, environmental studies and other subjects. The facility also provides meeting rooms for charities, sports clubs and associations, and acts as a venue for arts, crafts and dance. The facility is run jointly by two companies, Jersey Adventures and Jersey Odyssey.\n\n\"Haut de la Garenne\" is French for \"top of the warren\". The building is situated on Mont de la Garenne, a hill overlooking Mont Orgueil where rabbits were hunted. This \"varenne\" of the King was a perquisite (privilege) of the Crown.\n\n"}
{"id": "51621423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51621423", "title": "Influencing Machine (book)", "text": "Influencing Machine (book)\n\nThe Influencing Machine: Brooke Gladstone on the Media is a nonfiction graphic novel by journalist Brooke Gladstone and cartoonist Josh Neufeld. Gladstone describes the book as \"a treatise on the relationship between us and the news media,\" further described by the \"New York Observer\" as \"a manifesto on the role of the press in American history as told through a cartoon version of herself.\" The title of the book refers to \"On the Origin of the \"Influencing Machine\" in Schizophrenia\", a 1919 article written by psychoanalyst Viktor Tausk. \n\n\"The Influencing Machine\" was released in hardcover in May 2011. A paperback edition with a new cover was released in May 2012.\n\nMuch in the vein of Scott McCloud's \"Understanding Comics\", Gladstone appears in the book as an illustrated character, taking the reader through two millennia of history — from the newspapers in Caesar's Rome to the penny press of the American Revolution and the activities of contemporary journalism. Issues discussed include bias, objectivity, misinformation, ethics, and a large chapter on war reporting. In a reference to the Trausk's \"Influencing Machine,\" the book debunks the notion that “The Media” is an external force, outside of our control. Instead, it posits that the media is a mirror — sometimes a distorted one — reflecting society's beliefs and morals back at itself.\n\n\"The Influencing Machine\" received recognition from magazines, newspapers, and websites such as \"The New Yorker\", National Public Radio, the Associated Press, \"The Nation\", \"Columbia Journalism Review\", and many others.\n\nThe book was named one of the best comics/graphic novels of 2011 by \"Publishers Weekly\" and the \"Library Journal\". It was listed on a number of 2011 holiday gift guides, including \"New York\" magazine and BoingBoing. It was selected for 1book140, The Atlantic.com's reading club.\n\n\"The Influencing Machine\" has been selected as a common read by a number of universities, including Alaska Pacific University, American University, Millersville University, the University of Alaska Anchorage, and the University of Maryland.\n\n\"The Influencing Machine\" has been translated into Korean, Italian, French, and German.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23253258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23253258", "title": "International Tourism Management", "text": "International Tourism Management\n\nInternational Tourism Management is a degree course, whose main focuses with regard to contents consist of business basics with a tourism covering, cross cultural and social competence as well as leadership- and professional competence.\n\nInternational Management deals with the maintenance and development of a multinational operation across national borders, whose manager has the knowledge and the skills to manage and handle cross-cultural processes, stakeholders and environments in a right way.\n\nsee Tourism management\n\nPrograms Offered \n\n"}
{"id": "38573790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38573790", "title": "List of culture universities in Ukraine", "text": "List of culture universities in Ukraine\n\nThe list of culture universities in Ukraine includes state education institutions of Ukraine of the 3rd and 4th accreditation levels such as universities, academies, conservatories and institutes. The list only specializes in various schools for arts, music, culture and design.\n\nMost of arts, music and culture educational state institutions are administered by the Ministry of Culture.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42034815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42034815", "title": "Margaret R. Fox", "text": "Margaret R. Fox\n\nMargaret R. Fox was an American electronics engineer and computer scientist born in 1916. She was the Chief of the Office of Computer Information, part of the Institute for Computer Science and Technology of the National Bureau of Standards (now the National Institute of Standards and Technology) from 1966 to 1975 and was the first secretary of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies.\n\nFox graduated from Wisconsin State College of Milwaukee in 1940.\n\nShe taught school before joining the U.S. Naval Reserve in 1943. She was stationed at the Naval Research Station in Washington, D.C. and after her discharge in 1946, she continued working as an electronics engineer in radar. Fox joined the National Bureau of Standards as a member of the technical staff of the Electronic Computer Laboratory in 1951 and later joined the Research Information Center and Advisory Service on Information Processing, where she produced reviews and bibliographies. Along with Samuel N. Alexander, Fox prepared and planned a series of college computer courses beginning in 1966. She chaired the Technical Program Committee and in 1973, she became representative of the Bureau's Center for Computer Sciences and Technology. She was appointed Chief of the Office of Computer Information, part of the Institute for Computer Science and Technology of the National Bureau of Standards (now the National Institute of Standards and Technology) in 1966. Fox held this position until 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "6942702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6942702", "title": "Marilyn Mailman Segal", "text": "Marilyn Mailman Segal\n\nMarilyn Mailman Segal (Marilyn Segal) was an American developmental psychologist, author and educator specializing in early childhood. She is the founder and dean emeritus of the Family Center at Nova Southeastern University in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Her numerous books include the five volume \"Your Child at Play\" series.\n\nShe received a B.A. from Wellesley College in 1948, a B.S. in social work from McGill University in 1949, and a Ph.D. in social psychology from Nova University in 1970. She established a doctoral program in early childhood education in 1972 and founded the Family Center in 1975. In 2002 it was renamed the Mailman Segal Institute for Early Childhood Studies.\n\nHer businessman father, Abraham Mailman, was the founder of the Mailman Foundation with his brother Joseph Mailman. She is chair emeritus of the A. L. Mailman Family Foundation (named after her father) and is a trustee of the University of Miami.\n\nA family gift of Old Master paintings to Duke University has been named in her honor. She died on November 19, 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20871366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20871366", "title": "Ministry of Education and Vocational Training", "text": "Ministry of Education and Vocational Training\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Science and Technology is a government body responsible for providing education in Tanzania. The head offices are located in Dar es Salaam. Dr. Joyce Ndalichako is the Minister for Education, Science and Technology.\n\nThe permanent secretary, Sifuni Mchome, acts as the main custodian of the ministry's resources and is its chief accounting officer. The policy and planning division and the management information unit are under the secretary's direct supervision.\n\nThe commissioner of education, under the permanent secretary, is the chief academic advisor in all aspects of professional departments and parastatal organizations. The commissioner supervises the special needs education unit, the distance learning unit, the school registration unit, the primary education division, the secondary education division, the teacher education division, the technical and vocational education division, the higher education division, the adult and non formal education division, and the school inspectorate division.\n\nThe core functions of the ministry are coordinated through the following divisions and units:\n\nThe support functions of the ministry are provided by the following divisions and units:\n\nOther Tanzanian educational organizations exist, some of which are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training. They include:\n\nThe Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE) is a parastatal organization under the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training. TIE is \"charged with the responsibility of ensuring the quality of education in Tanzania at the pre-school, primary, secondary and teacher training levels.\" It was founded in 1963 under an act of parliament whereby TIE was under the University College of Dar es Salaam, then a constituent of the University of East Africa. In 1975, parliament legally disengaged TIE from the University of Dar es Salaam and made TIE a state corporation.\n\nThe Institute of Adult Education was established in 1975. The institute is responsible for running continuing and non-formal education programmes for adults, with special emphasis on rural communities.\n\nThe National Examinations Council of Tanzania was established in 1973. The council is responsible for administering all national examinations and awarding primary, secondary, and post-secondary official diplomas.\n\nThe Tanzania Library Services Board (TLSB) was established in 1963 but is now governed by a law passed in 1975. TLSB promotes, establishes, equips, and develops libraries, information centers, and documentation centers. TLSB provides information to all groups of people, including children, youth, adults, and disadvantaged groups. In carrying out these responsibilities, TLSB acquires, organizes, and distributes books, non-book materials, and other forms of information materials to individuals, schools, institutions, and the public.\n\nThe Agency for the Development of Educational Management was established under the Executive Agencies Act, 1997. Its purpose is to provide regular and systematized educational management and administration training for all categories of educational management and administration personnel in the education service.\n\nThe Vocational Education and Training Authority was established in 1994. It is an autonomous government agency charged with the overall responsibility for coordinating, regulating, financing, providing, and promoting vocational education and training.\n\nThe National Council for Technical Education was established in 1998. It is responsible for overseeing the provision of quality technical education and training in Tanzania.\n\nThe Higher Education Students' Loans Board (HESLB) was established in 2004. HESLB is responsible for issuing loans to students pursuing advanced/higher diplomas and degree studies at accredited higher education institutions in and outside the country. HESLB is also required to collect repayment for all loans issued to students since 1994, so as to make the scheme successful and sustainable.\n\nThe Tanzania Education Authority is a corporate body established in 2001. Its purpose is to manage the Education Fund, which supports education projects submitted by universities, technical colleges, and full-registered schools.\n\nThe Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) was established in 2005 as the successor to the Higher Education Accreditation Council. Prior to the establishment of TCU, each higher education institution implemented its mandatory functions as stipulated in its individual Act of Parliament or constitutions. In the same Act that established TCU, Parliament repealed all the prior Acts that dealt with institutions individually. Each institution was then required to register with TCU.\n\nTCU is a body corporate mandated to recognize, approve, register, and accredit universities operating in Tanzania, and local or foreign university level programs being offered by non-TCU registered higher education institutions. TCU also coordinates the proper functioning of all university institutions in Tanzania to foster a harmonized higher education system in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4475135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4475135", "title": "National Council of Educational Research and Training", "text": "National Council of Educational Research and Training\n\nThe National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) is an autonomous organisation of the Government of India which was established on 1 September 1961 as a literary, scientific and charitable Society under the Societies' Registration Act (Act XXI of 1860). Its headquarters are located at Sri Aurbindo Marg in New Delhi. Dr. Hrushikesh Senapaty is director of the council since September 2015.\n\nTextbooks published by NCERT are prescribed by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) from classes I to XII, with exceptions for a few subjects. Around 19 school boards from 14 states have adopted or adapted the books. Online textbooks can be downloaded from the epathshala website. Those who wish to adopt the textbooks are required to send a request to NCERT, upon which soft copies of the books are received. The material is press-ready and may be printed by paying a 5% royalty, and by acknowledging NCERT.\n\nThe textbooks are printed in colour and are amongst the least expensive books in Indian bookstores, with each for up to class VIII having a maximum price of Rs 50 (formerly Rs 30). Textbooks produced by private publishers are priced higher than those of NCERT. According to a government policy decision in 2017, the NCERT will have the exclusive task of publishing central text books from 2018, and the role of CBSE will be limited to conducting examinations.\n\nThe Government of India's Ministry of Education resolved on 27 July 1961 to establish the National Council of Educational Research and Training, which formally began operation on 1 September 1961. The Council was formed by merging seven existing national government institutions, namely the Central Institute of Education, the Central Bureau of Textbook Research, the Central Bureau of Educational and Vocational Guidance, the Directorate of Extension Programmes for Secondary Education, the National Institute of Basic Education, the National Fundamental Education Centre, and the National Institute of Audio-Visual Education. It is separate from the National Council for Teacher Education.\n\nThe NCERT was established with the agenda to design and support a common system of education which is national in character and also enables and encourages the diverse culture across the country. Based on the recommendations of the Education Commission(1964-66), the first national policy statement on education was issued in 1968. The policy endorsed the adoption of a uniform pattern of school education across country consisting of 10 years of general education program followed by 2 years of diversified schooling. \n\nThe Curriculum for the Ten-year school: This framework came in 1975. It emphasised that a curriculum based on the principles laid out in the framework has to be developed on the basis of research. Thus for NCERT, the 1970s was a decade flushed with curriculum research and development activities to relate the content and process of education to Indian realities.\n\nNational Curriculum for Elementary and Secondary Education: This revised curriculum framework came in 1988 after the National Policy on Education(1986).It encompassed 12 years of school education and suggested a reorientation of curricular and instructional materials to make them more child-centred. It advocated bringing out examination reforms and the implementation of Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation at all stages of education.\n\nNational Curriculum Framework for School Education: This framework came in 2000. It stressed the need for a healthy, enjoyable and stress-free childhood and reduction of the curricular load. Thus an integrated and thematic approach was suggested, environmental education was emphasized upon and language and mathematics got integrated in the first two years of schooling.\n\nMain article: National Curriculum Framework (NCF 2005)\n\nNational Curriculum Framework: The council came up with a new National Curriculum Framework in 2005, drafted by a National Steering Committee. This exercise was based on 5 guiding principles:\n\nThe design of the NCERT logo is taken from an Ashokan period relic of the 3rd century BCE which was found in excavations near Maske in Raichur district, Karnataka. The motto has been taken from the Isha Upanishad and means 'life eternal through learning'. The intertwined hansas symbolise the integration of the three aspects of the work of NCERT: 1. Research and development 2. Training, and 3. Extension\n\nThe council's objectives are:\n\ni) To promote and conduct educational research, experimentation of innovative ideas and practice. \n\nii) To develop National Curriculum Framework (NCF 2005), syllabi, and textbooks; teaching-learning materials and kits; training models and strategies; audio, video, and ICT materials. \n\niii) Training of Pre-service and in-service teacher education and national and state level functionaries. \n\niv) To collaborate with State, national and international organizations.\n\nNCERT has a comprehensive extension programme in which departments of the National Institute of Education, Regional Institute of Education, Central Institute of Vocational Education and field advisers' offices in the states are engaged in activities. Several programmes are organised in rural and backward areas to reach out to functionaries in these areas. \n\nThe council acts as the Secretariat of the National Development Group for Educational Innovations. The council has been offering training facilities, usually through attachment programmes and participation in workshops, to education workers of other countries. The council publishes textbooks for school subjects from Classes I to XII. NCERT publishes books & provides sample question papers that are used in government and private schools across India that follow the CBSE curriculum.\n\nAn online system named e-pathshala has been developed for disseminating educational e-resources including textbooks, audio, video, periodicals and a variety of other print and non-print materials, ensuring their free access through mobile phones and tablets (as e-pub) and from the web through laptops and desktops (as flipbooks).\n\nEver since its establishment, the organisation has faced a great deal of controversy and continues to do so today. The controversy centres around allegations of attempted saffronised rewriting of Indian history. Allegations of historical revisionism with a Hindu nationalist agenda arose in two periods: under the Janata Party government 1977 to 1980 and again under the Bharatiya Janata Party government from 1998 to 2004. In 2012, the organisation has been blamed for publishing 'offensive' cartoons against B.R. Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution and thus lodging an insult to the Constitution, in its textbooks. The controversy led to the resignation of NCERT chief advisors Yogendra Yadav and Suhas Palshikar and an apology from the government.\n\nThe National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), the apex organisation that provides advice and support for the improvement of school education has been avoiding mentioning that most of the Indian subcontinent was ruled by the Marathas before the British East India Company conquered it in History books in India according to historian Sadanand More.\n\n"}
{"id": "30873720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873720", "title": "National Intelligence University", "text": "National Intelligence University\n\nThe National Intelligence University (NIU), formerly known as the National Defense Intelligence College and the Joint Military Intelligence College, is a federally-chartered research university in Bethesda, Maryland. NIU is the United States Intelligence Community's (IC) institution for higher learning in fields of study central to the profession of intelligence and national security. NIU awards undergraduate and graduate degrees, graduate certificates, and research fellowships to prepare personnel for senior positions in the IC and the broader national security enterprise. Since 1963, more than 80,000 military and civilian students have attended the university. Formerly located at the Defense Intelligence Agency headquarters in Washington, D.C., NIU's primary campus is now located at Intelligence Community Campus-Bethesda (ICC-B) with five additional locations around the world. The university's John T. Hughes Library is also located at ICC-B. NIU is the only university in the United States where students can study and complete research at the Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information level.\n\nNational Intelligence University's interdisciplinary programs emphasize education through scholarly and applied research designed to help U.S. intelligence officers better understand the diverse range of geopolitical, strategic, and technological threats and opportunities affecting intelligence and national security. The university is organized into two separate academic units: the College of Strategic Intelligence and the Oettinger School of Science and Technology. Combined, the colleges cover a diverse and evolving range of international affairs issues and adversarial threats and capabilities, from cultural and religious conflicts to WMD proliferation, cybersecurity threats, terrorism, transnational crime, and more.\n\nCongressionally chartered and publicly-funded but with admissions restricted solely to current U.S. Intelligence officers holding a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information clearance, NIU is a small, non-resident university. Admissions are highly selective, but tuition is paid by the United States Government.\n\nThe United States Department of Defense established the Defense Intelligence School in 1962 to consolidate existing U.S. Army and Navy academic programs in strategic intelligence. In 1980, the U.S. Congress authorized the school to award the Master of Science of Strategic Intelligence degree. In 1981, the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools accredited the School. That same year, DoD rechartered the institution as the Defense Intelligence College, placing additional emphasis on its research mission.\n\nSince then, the university has added several off-campus programs at the National Security Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and several regional centers and has encouraged an increase in enrollment from civilian agencies. On campus, it has also added two part-time graduate programs, one designed for military reservists. Students from throughout the Intelligence Community attend the university, and they include active duty and reserve military personnel from each of the services (including the Coast Guard), DoD, and other federal civilian employees.\n\nRenamed the Joint Military Intelligence College in 1993, it educates the future leaders of the Intelligence Community by offering an undergraduate and graduate curriculum. In addition, the university sponsors research and publication opportunities for students and faculty, attracts distinguished speakers, and its students participate in field exercises and simulations in partnership with their peers at the military staff and war colleges.\n\nLTG Michael T. Flynn, USA, director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, addressed NIU graduates, their families and guests at the 2012 graduation by stating, \"Our vision—that NIU becomes the center of academic life for the intelligence community—will help shape graduates who address the range of mission challenges as a fully integrated community, and encourage lifelong learning as they continue to serve this nation.\"\n\nNIU is an accredited federal degree granting institution educating and preparing intelligence officers to meet current and future challenges to the national security of the United States. NIU President Dr. David Ellison stressed in his 2012 graduation remarks that NIU addresses these challenges by helping students develop \"depth in critical thinking\" and \"breadth in understanding the IC\" and how focused research applies to analysis and addressing critical questions on national security.\n\nThe university is authorized by the United States Congress to award the Bachelor of Science in Intelligence, the Master of Science and Technology Intelligence and the Master of Science of Strategic Intelligence degrees. The university is accredited by the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nThe John T. Hughes Library houses 2.5 million items, including books, unclassified intelligence documents, reference materials, periodicals, microfilms, video and cartographic items. The library subscribes to 2,000 international periodicals, newspapers, annuals, serials, and statistical reports. It is particularly strong in Russian periodicals. The library has archival microfiche and microfilm collections of general and scholarly periodicals, Foreign Broadcast Information Service reports, and declassified documents.\n\nThe Office of Research within the university enables students to pursue projects that require research outside the Washington, DC, area, including overseas. The university encourages faculty research on intelligence issues and supports intelligence-related research by faculty from other DoD Schools. Faculty and student research is published in academic journals, in the university's Occasional Paper series, and in book-length special studies. Research results and thesis abstracts are also disseminated electronically to the Intelligence Community.\n\n\nAll prospective NIU students must meet the following requirements:\n\n\n\nRussia\n"}
{"id": "15494827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15494827", "title": "Parent-teacher conference", "text": "Parent-teacher conference\n\nA parent-teacher conference, parent-teacher interview, parent-teacher night or parents' evening, is a short meeting or conference between the parents and teachers of students to discuss a child's progress at school and find solutions to academic or behavioral problems. Parent-teacher conferences supplement the information conveyed by report cards by focusing on students' specific strengths and weaknesses in individual subjects and generalizing the level of inter-curricular skills and competences.\n\nMost conferences take place without the presence of the students whose progress is being discussed, although there is evidence that their inclusion increases the productivity of the meetings. The meetings are generally led by teachers who take a more active role in information sharing, with parents relegated mostly to the role of listeners.\n\nParent-teacher conferences exist in a variety of different forms, depending on a country, school district and individual school. The subtypes are characterized by the following attributes.\n\nLike most other meetings, parent-teacher conferences can take the form of \"face-to-face meetings\" in which parents and teachers meet in person, or \"electronic meetings\" that are conducted over the phone or via video conferencing systems like Skype or Google Voice. Face-to-face meetings offer personal contact but require that parents and teachers meet at physically the same place during the meeting. These interviews are usually between five and fifteen minutes long.\n\nIn case of electronic parent-teacher conferences, neither parents nor teachers need to be at school or other common location and can participate in the meeting from home or while working or traveling. The school does not need to reserve rooms for the meetings and there is more flexibility in finding suitable time. The disadvantages of electronic are a lack of face time that many participants are used to and a need for the availability to unfailing technology.\n\nParent-teacher interviews are a tradition in Western school systems, such as Australia, Canada, the UK and the United States. In the United States, many elementary schools will shorten the school day by 2–3 hours (often for an entire week) in mid fall to allow extra time for teachers to give these conferences.\n\nParent-teacher conferences can be \n\nParent-teacher conferences usually take place once every school term, although some schools organize only one meeting during (mostly at the beginning of) the school year.\n\nThe duration of parent-teacher conferences depends on the frequency of conferences and the number of participating parents and teachers. Annual meetings with multiple participants may last two hours or longer; one-to-many and many-to-one meetings once a term may last for an hour; one-on-one meetings once a year may last 15 minutes, one-on-one meetings once a term tend to last 5–10 minutes.\n\nMost face-to-face meetings take place at school. One-to-many meetings may take place in separate meeting rooms, many-to-one meetings in larger classrooms and one-to-one and many-to-one meetings in the school hall, aula or auditorium, with many one-to-one meetings happening simultaneously in different parts of the room.\n\nIn Australian educational system, the meetings are known as parent-teacher interviews or parents' nights. The exact practice varies by state and by school type. Some states mandate that the interviews be conducted, others do not. Government and non-government schools also follow different federal educational laws.\n\nSome schools have only one round of interviews per year, others have more. Two rounds is common, with terms 1 (Feb-April) and 3 (July–September) being popular times. Many schools offer multiple dates, splitting interviews either by class or by name (e.g. a-k/l-z).\n\nThere is often keen demand by parents for times with teachers, though a common observation from teachers is that it is the parents who they \"don't\" need to see who attend interviews, while parents who \"should\" attend often do not.\n\nIn Canadian educational system, the meetings are known as parent-teacher interviews.\n\nParent-teacher interviews are mandatory for all Ontario (Canada) elementary and secondary school teachers. Parents have the right to be allotted time for this purpose under the Ministry of Education.\n\n\"Canadian Living\" criticizes parent-teacher interviews for their class bias. Often only the most privileged children's parents will attend the interviews and the children more likely to need extra assistance will not have their parents attend.\n\nIn Singapore, the meeting is known as \"school parent meeting.\n\nIn US educational system, the meeting is known as \"parent-teacher conference\".\n\nThe conferences are usually held twice a year, at the end of the first quarter and at the end of the third quarter, with meeting each lasting 15–20 minutes. The parents typically choose the time that is best for them, and the teacher schedules the conference accordingly. The specific practices vary within school districts.\n\nIn the United States, many elementary schools will shorten the school day by 2–3 hours (often for an entire week) in mid fall to allow extra time for teachers to give these conferences.\n\nThe difference between parent-teacher conferences and a PTA meetings is that the former focus on students' academic progress while the latter organize more extra-curricular activities.\n\nSome counties in US have proposed to consider it a legal violation for parents or guardians who fail to attend at least one parent-teacher conference during the school year. However, some charter schools have made the event a requirement for parents to attend.\n\nIn UK educational system, the meeting is known as \"parent-teacher conference\" or \"parents' evening\". The event is often held in the school hall and adjacent communal spaces where parents move through a series of eight to nine face-to-face 5 minute consultations with individual teachers.\n\nScheduling parent-teacher conferences involves finding a time that suits both parents and teachers with their existing time constraints and finding locations for the meetings. If all meetings would be independent without any dependencies, the planning of the meetings simplifies to unordered timetabling rather than full-scale scheduling where events need to be scheduled in a certain order, often because the output of one event forms an input for another.\n\nIn most cases, certain dependencies exist: parents prefer not to wait too long between different interviews but need long enough breaks to move from one location to another or locations in close proximity.\n\nVarious methods exist for scheduling parent-teacher conferences.\n\nIn the simplest case, the meetings are not pre-scheduled at all, parents come to school and line up to see each teacher they want to see. Meetings happen on a first-come basis.\n\nMeetings can be scheduled in person, by phone or on-line.\n\nIn person scheduling comes in two flavors:\n\nThe advantage of the first is that teachers need not be involved in scheduling, the disadvantages are that a special middleman is required. The method is centralized in the sense that it is directed by neither a parent nor a teacher.\n\nThe advantage of the second is that parents need not be involved in scheduling, the disadvantages are that teachers need to do the scheduling after their classes are over or during break times that they would otherwise need for rest, prepare for classes or advising students, parents do not know which slots the teachers have available and often get times that aren't suitable or optimal (booking schedules are optimized from the point of view of the teacher, not the parent); if a student doesn't want his/her parent to see teachers, all he/she may just not make the bookings, or leave it so late that there are no times available.\n\nScheduling by phone also involves a parent and a school administrator to do the scheduling without parents needing to be physically at school at the time of the scheduling. In principle, the middlemen could be avoided by automated scheduling by phone but is currently hindered by the lack of sophisticated speech analysis. This process can cause high levels of demand on school offices.\n\nOn-line scheduling is done by internet using appointment scheduling software. The advantages of the system are that it is automated without a need for a middleman, centrally optimized both for parents and for teachers without the need to involve students.\n\nComputationally, the scheduling problem is a NP-complete problem and in the same complexity class with other problems that involve\nconstraint satisfaction and combinatorial optimization (so no fast algorithms are known for solving it).\n\nThis can be seen as follows. We can check in time polynomial to the input size whether certain time slot assignment satisfies parent-teacher conference scheduling (PTCS) constraints. Therefore, PTCS ∈ NP. Ignoring constraints that complicate scheduling even further, let's only consider the constraints on parent availability (e.g. assuming that all teachers, rooms and time slots are always available). Then there exists a simple polynomial transformation of the class-teacher assignment problem with teacher availability constraints (CTTA) in school timetable construction to the PTCS problem: namely, map class instances to teacher instances, teacher instances to parent instances, time slots to time slots (identity map), and teacher availability to parent availability. So if the PTCS problem were polynomial-time solvable by some algorithm, the transformation described above and the algorithm could be used to solve the CTTA problem too and the CTTA task would be polynomially solvable as well. But CTTA has been earlier proved to be NP-complete by the reduction from the NP-complete 3-SAT problem, so the PTC scheduling problem cannot be polynomially solvable either, and has to be NP-complete.\n\nOptimized scheduling is advantageous only as long as the participants keep to the schedule by attending the meetings and starting and finishing on time. The latter can be achieved by a school bell or electronic voice-over message played over the school PA system, at each change of interview time (E.g. \"\"Please move to your next interview\"), avoiding to schedule very short interview times that are harder to keep running on time, scheduling empty slots at intervals to assist in bringing events back onto time if they are running over. General time management techniques apply.\n\nParents sometimes complain schedules are not running on time, causing them to miss interviews, or be cut short. This is usually due to either parents or teachers electing to continue talking beyond their booked time slot. One factor that naturally reduces this effect is the presence of another parent ready to start the next interview and clearly in view of the teacher. There are several other options that can assist on-time running of events:\n\nParent-teacher conferences have been criticized for their class bias and inefficiency because the meetings are attended mostly by the parents of more privileged children, while the parents of the children who are more likely to need extra assistance do not attend.\n\n"}
{"id": "21436602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21436602", "title": "Partnership for Environmental Education, Inc", "text": "Partnership for Environmental Education, Inc\n\nThe Partnership for Environmental Education, Inc. (PFEE), is a Florida not-for-profit organization (began January 1995), that was formed by a diverse group of community leaders, educators and business people for the purpose of encouraging, promoting and supporting environmental education, stewardship, and careers. PFEE brings together students, scientists, educators, businesses and governmental agencies to promote a sustainable environmental legacy for our region.\n\nPFEE was founded in order to provide funding for the activities of the Jupiter Environmental Research and Field Studies Academy (JERFSA). JERFSA students require adequate funding for various community service, field study, and other research programs. PFEE was founded by parents, teachers, and students two years after the JERFSA program began and order to raise these funds. Since then the program has continued and expanded and provides not only funding, but a connection to businesses and the community for the JERFSA program.\n\n"}
{"id": "43680599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43680599", "title": "Politecnico di Studi Aziendali", "text": "Politecnico di Studi Aziendali\n\nThe Politecnico di Studi Aziendali (Polytechnic University of Business Studies), formerly also referred to as Politecnico di Lugano (Polytechnic University of Lugano), is an unaccredited distance learning, proprietary, for-profit university located in Zug, Switzerland (previously: Roveredo, Agno, Lugano) operated by ISSEA SA.\n\nThe school has no campus and issues degrees based on life experiences and optional online learning courses. Although the director/founder is not a member of the Swiss Bar or Italian Bar, he introduces himself as an attorney, using the Italian \"avv.\" title. The school issues Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctoral degrees. Despite being based in Switzerland, the school has Italian landlines and the personnel only speak Italian because the degrees are offered mostly to Italians, as unaccredited universities are illegal in Italy.\n\nIts parent company, ISSEA SA, can operate because of the economic freedom and scientific freedom guaranteed in Title 2 of the Swiss Federal Constitution (art. 27 and art. 20) but the institution is not accredited by the Rectors' Conference of the Swiss Universities (CRUS) nor by the Department of Education, Culture and Sports of Ticino. ISSEA SA has also been denied accreditation by the Federal Administrative Court of Switzerland. The same federal court permanently banned ISSEA and its Politecnico di studi aziendali from the European Erasmus Programme because of their unaccredited status. Since January 1, 2015, the usage of the words \"polytechnic\" and/or \"university\" by unaccredited institutions has been declared illegal by the Canton of Ticino, which is why the Politecnico di Studi Aziendali had to leave Ticino.\n\nIn 1993, the Italian Ministry of Education included the Politecnico di studi aziendali in a list of private institutions which are not allowed to issue valid academic qualifications.\n\nISSEA is a member of the general assembly of EMUNI University so it can receive European public funds (such as €50,000 in 2012)—although Switzerland is not in the European Union—and is certified by SQS.ch with registry number 34044.\n\nIn 2016, the Canton of Grisons' parliament asked to stop the company from operating even in the new location. A few months later, the unaccredited school moved to the Canton of Zug.\n\nIn the same year, in the tribunal of the Canton of Ticino, the company was convicted of unauthorized use of protected names (\"university\", \"polytechnic\" etc.)\n\nAfter the Swiss authorities declared the name \"Politecnico di studi aziendali\" illegal, the institution's ads started to use different names as well, such as \"Polotecnico di studi aziendali\" (one vowel was changed) or \"Polo Tecnico di studi aziendali\" (literally: Technical research center of business studies, www.unipsa.net), \"Unipsa\", \"I.S.S.E.A. sa Scuola Universitaria Privata a Distanza\", \"C.I.S.M.A.D.\" (Centro Italiano Studi Multidisciplinari a Distanza, www.cismad.it), \"unisupdi.ch\" or \"Supsi\" (not to be confused with SUPSI, an accredited Swiss university).\n\nIn 2016, after moving to Zug, the institution also started to use the name \"Università telematica privata Unisanraffaele - Unise\" (www.unise.ch) while maintaining all the previous names. The new name may be misleading because it closely resembles \"Università telematica San Raffaele\"—where \"San\" and \"Raffaele\" (Saint Raphael) are separated by a space—which is a real accredited Italian online university.\n\nAn old website called \"Private University Consortium\" (www.umc-puc.edu), created in 1999 and deactivated in 2006, also sold degrees from Gibraltar under the name of \"Università Mons Calpe\", from Colorado under the name of \"American Business School LLC\", and from Panama under the name of \"University Europanamense\". The consortium was supposed to be headquartered in the same office as the Politecnico di studi aziendali in Ticino. All the institutions were unaccredited and all the offices no longer exist.\n\nAs of 2017, the institution is also being advertised as \"Univolta Università Telematica Privata Alessandro Volta\" (Online Private University Alessandro Volta, www.univolta.ch), using the same office in Zug and the same domain name as the Politecnico di Studi Aziendali (www.unipsa.ch) — whose name has been declared illegal by Swiss authorities — as well as \"Atena Unitelematica scuola universitaria www.uniatena.ch\" (Telematic university Athena). At the same time, www.unipsa.net is being used by the aforementioned \"Polo Tecnico di studi aziendali\".\n"}
{"id": "9493039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9493039", "title": "Posts and Telecommunications Institute of Technology", "text": "Posts and Telecommunications Institute of Technology\n\nPosts and Telecommunications Institute of Technology (PTIT), is a University in Vietnam, under the supervision of Vietnam Posts and Telecommunications Group (VNPT), a communications-related research facility.\n\nAcademic Faculties:\nThese faculties are based in 2 campuses:\n\nThe co-operation activities are focused on:\n\nThe Institute has established co-operation with the following foreign institutions, universities, organizations and partners:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "235646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235646", "title": "Public Schools Act 1868", "text": "Public Schools Act 1868\n\nThe Public Schools Act 1868 was enacted by the British Parliament to reform and regulate seven of the leading English boys' schools of the time, most of which had grown out of ancient charity schools for the education of a certain number of poor scholars, but were then, as they do today, also educating many sons of the English upper and upper-middle classes on a fee-paying basis.\n\nThe Act followed the report of the Clarendon Commission, a Royal Commission on Public Schools which sat from 1861 to 1864 and investigated conditions and abuses which had grown up over the centuries at nine originally charity schools.\n\nThe Bill was presented for its first reading in the Lords by Lord Clarendon on 13 March 1865 and for its second reading on 3 April 1865. The Bill was in two parts, the first containing the general provisions of the Bill and the second containing specific proposals for each school.\n\nSt Paul's School and Merchant Taylors' School were omitted, as they argued successfully that their constitutions made them legally \"private\" schools and that their constitutions could not be altered by public legislation, thus the Act concerned itself with the other seven schools investigated by the Clarendon Commission:\n\n\nThe Act removed these schools from any direct jurisdiction or responsibility of the Crown, established church, or government, establishing a board of governors for each school and granting them independence over their administration. The Act led to development of the schools away from the traditional exclusively classics-based curriculum taught by clergymen, to a somewhat broader scope of studies. In 1887 the Divisional Court and the Court of Appeal determined that the City of London School was a public school.\n\n"}
{"id": "254328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254328", "title": "Public space", "text": "Public space\n\nA public space is a place that is generally open and accessible to people. Roads (including the pavement), public squares, parks and beaches are typically considered public space. To a limited extent, government buildings which are open to the public, such as public libraries are public spaces, although they tend to have restricted areas and greater limits upon use. Although not considered public space, privately owned buildings or property visible from sidewalks and public thoroughfares may affect the public visual landscape, for example, by outdoor advertising. Recently, the concept of Shared space has been advanced to enhance the experience of pedestrians in public space jointly used by automobiles and other vehicles.\n\nPublic space has also become something of a touchstone for critical theory in relation to philosophy, (urban) geography, visual art, cultural studies, social studies and urban design. The term 'public space' is also often misconstrued to mean other things such as 'gathering place', which is an element of the larger concept of social space.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of public spaces are commons. For example, no fees or paid tickets are required for entry. Non-government-owned malls are examples of 'private space' with the appearance of being 'public space'.\n\nIn Nordic countries like Norway, Sweden, Finland and also Estonia, all nature areas are considered public space, due to a law, the \"allemansrätten\" (the right to common passage).\n\nIn the United States the right of the people to engage in speech and assembly in public places may not be unreasonably restricted by the federal or state government. The government cannot usually limit one's speech beyond what is reasonable in a public space, which is considered to be a public forum (that is, screaming epithets at passers-by can be stopped; proselytizing one's religion probably cannot). In a private—that is, non-public—forum, the government can control one's speech to a much greater degree; for instance, protesting one's objection to medicare reform will not be tolerated in the gallery of the United States Senate. This is not to say that the government can control what one says in their own home or to others; it can only control government property in this way. The concept of a public forum is not limited to physical space or public property, for example, a newspaper might be considered a public forum, but see forum in the legal sense as the term has a specific meaning in United States law.\n\nParks, malls, beaches, waiting rooms, etc., may be closed at night. As this does not exclude any specific group, it is generally not considered a restriction on public use. Entry to public parks cannot be restricted based upon a user's residence.\n\nIn some cultures, there is no expectation of privacy in a public space, however civil inattention is a process whereby individuals are able to maintain their privacy within a crowd.\n\nPublic space is commonly shared and created for open usage throughout the community, whereas private space is individually or corporately owned. The area is built for a range of various types of recreation and entertainment. The physical setting is socially constructed, which creates a behavior influence. Limitations are imposed in the space to prevent certain actions from occurring--public behavior that is considered obnoxious or out of character (i.e., drug and alcohol consumption, urinating, indecent exposure, etc.)--and are supported by law or ordinance. Through the landscape and spatial organization of public space, the social construction is considered to be privately ruled by the implicit and explicit rules and expectations of the space that are enforced.\n\nWhilst it is generally considered that everyone has a right to access and use public space, as opposed to private space which may have restrictions, there has been some academic interest in how public spaces are managed to exclude certain groups - specifically homeless people and young people.\n\nMeasures are taken to make the public space less attractive to them, including the removal or design of benches to restrict their use for sleeping and resting, restricting access to certain times, locking indoor/enclosed areas. Police forces are sometimes involved in moving 'unwanted' members of the public from public spaces. In fact, by not being provided suitable access, disabled people are implicitly excluded from some spaces.\n\nHuman geographers have argued that in spite of the exclusions that are part of public space, it can nonetheless be conceived of as a site where democracy becomes possible. Geographer Don Mitchell has written extensively on the topic of public space and its relation to democracy, employing Henri Lefebvre's notion of the right to the city in articulating his argument. While democracy and public space don't entirely coincide, it is the potential of their intersection that becomes politically important. Other geographers like Gill Valentine have focused on performativity and visibility in public spaces, which brings a theatrical component or 'space of appearance' that is central to the functioning of a democratic space.\n\nA privately owned public space, also known as a privately owned public open space (POPOS), is a public space that is open to the public, but owned by a private entity, typically a commercial property developer. Conversion of publicly owned public spaces to privately owned public spaces is referred to as the privatization of public space, and is a common result of urban redevelopment.\n\nBeginning roughly in the 1960s, the privatization of public space (especially in urban centers) has faced criticism from citizen groups such as the Open Spaces Society. Private-public partnerships have taken significant control of public parks and playgrounds through conservancy groups set up to manage what is considered unmanageable by public agencies. Corporate sponsorship of public leisure areas is ubiquitous, giving open space to the public in exchange for higher air rights. This facilitates the construction of taller buildings with private parks.\n\nIn one of the newer U.S. incarnations of the private-public partnership, the business improvement district (BID), private organizations are allowed to tax local businesses and retail establishments so that they might provide special private services such as policing and increased surveillance, trash removal, or street renovation, all of which once fell under the control of public funds.\n\nA broader meaning of public space or place includes also places where everybody can come if they pay, like a café, train, or movie theater. A shop is an example of what is intermediate between the two meanings: everybody can enter and look around without obligation to buy, but activities unrelated to the purpose of the shop are not unlimitedly permitted.\n\nThe halls and streets (including skyways) in a shopping center may be declared a public place and may be open when the shops are closed. Similarly for halls, railway platforms and waiting rooms of public transport; sometimes a travelling ticket is required. A public library is a public place. A rest stop or truck stop is a public space.\n\nFor these \"semi-public\" spaces stricter rules may apply than outside, e.g. regarding dress code, trading, begging, advertising, photography, propaganda, riding rollerskates, skateboards, a Segway, etc.\n\nPublic space, as a term and as a concept in design, is volatile. There is much conversation around what constitutes public space, what role it plays, and how design should approach and deal with it.\n\nHistorically, public space in the west has been limited to town centres, plazas, church squares, i.e. nearly always engineered around a central monument, which informs the program of the space. These spaces acted as the 'commons' of the people; a political, social and cultural arena. Of the thirteen colonies that became the United States, three were comprehensively planned with integrated physical, social, and economic elements. These planned colonies of Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Georgia each placed emphasis on public space, in particular the public square. The plan for Georgia, known as the Oglethorpe Plan created a unique design in which a public square was created for every ward of forty residential lots and four civic or commercial lots. The design has been preserved in the Savannah historic district.\n\nJürgen Habermas' concept of the public sphere links its emergence with the development of democracy. A good example of this is the New Deal projects. The New Deal was a brief period in the US under Franklin Delano Roosevelt's government that produced a huge number of public works in an economic effort to boost employment during the depression. The result, however, was more than this. They constituted a legacy of what has been called the cultural infrastructure underlying American public space. The New Deal projects have been credited with significantly contributing to the quality of American life and encouraging unity between all aspects of the community. It has been recently argued, however, that the democratic ideal of public life through the use of public space has deteriorated. As our cities accelerate towards segregation (social, economic, cultural, ethnic), the opportunity for public interaction is on the decline. John Chase writes, \"The importance of voluntary and obligatory participation in civic life has been usurped by the consciousness of the arbitrary nature of assigned cultural meanings and by the increasingly important role that consumption of goods and services plays in the formation of individual identity.\"\n\nModern architectural critics have lamented on the 'narrative of loss' within the public sphere. That is, modern society has withdrawn from public life that used to inform city centres. Political and social needs, and forums for expression, can now be accessed from the home. This sentiment is reflected in Michael Sorkin's and Mike Davis' declaration of \"the end of public space\" and the \"destruction of any truly democratic urban spaces.\" Another side of the debate, however, argues that it is people who apply meaning to public space, wherever it may be. It has been suggested that the concepts of public, space, democracy, and citizenship are being redefined by people through lived experience. Discussion has surfaced around the idea that, historically, public space has been inherently contradictory in the way that it has always been exclusive in who has been able to participate. This has caused the \"counterpublics\", as identified by Nancy Fraser, to establish their own public spaces to respond to their own concerns. These spaces are in constant flux, and in response, its users restructure and reinterpret physical space. An example of this is in the African-American neighbourhood, Baldwin Hills, Los Angeles. Here, a parking lot has evolved into a scene of intense commercial and social activity. Locals gather here to meet and socialise, sell and consume goods. The example has been used to illustrate that the historical ideal of fixed public space around a monument is not viable for a contemporary diverse social range as \"no single physical space can represent a completely inclusive 'space of democracy'.\"\n\nThis sense of flux and change, informs how contemporary public art has evolved. Temporal art in public spaces has been a long established practice. But the presence of public art has become increasingly prevalent and important within our contemporary cities. Temporal public art is so important because of its ability to respond to, reflect, and explore the context which it inhabits. Patricia Phillips describes the \"social desire for an art that is contemporary and timely, that responds to and reflects its temporal and circumstantial context.\" Public art is an arena for investigation, exploration and articulation of the dense and diverse public landscape. Public art asks its audience to re-imagine, re-experience, re-view and re-live. In the design field, a heavy focus has been turned onto the city as needing to discover new and inspired ways to re-use, re-establish and re-invent the city, in step with an invigorated interest in re-juvinating our cities for a sustainable future. Contemporary design has become obsessed with the need to save the modern city from an industrialised, commercialised, urban pit of a death bed.\n\nContemporary perception of public space has now branched and grown into a multitude of non-traditional sites with a variety of programs in mind. It is for this reason that the way in which design deals with public space as a discipline, has become such a diverse and indefinable field.\n\nIris Aravot puts forward an interesting approach to the urban design process, with the idea of the 'narrative-myth'. Aravot argues that \"conventional analysis and problem solving methods result in fragmentation...of the authentic experience of a city...[and] something of the liveliness of the city as a singular entity is lost.\" The process of developing a narrative-myth in urban design involves analysing and understanding the unique aspects of the local culture based on Cassirer's five distinctive \"symbolic forms\". They are myth and religion, art, language, history and science; aspects often disregarded by professional practice. Aravot suggests that the narrative-myth \"imposes meaning specifically on what is still inexplicable\", i.e. the essence of a city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "907476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907476", "title": "Qualification", "text": "Qualification\n\nQualification is either the process of qualifying for an achievement, or a credential attesting to that achievement, and may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41037623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41037623", "title": "Sacred Heart Professional Training College", "text": "Sacred Heart Professional Training College\n\nThe origin of the school was founded in 1908. It was chartered as a vocational school in 1976.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24917304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24917304", "title": "St. Joseph's Technical Institute, Faisalabad", "text": "St. Joseph's Technical Institute, Faisalabad\n\nSt. Joseph's Technical Institute is a Pakistani vocational school for motor mechanics, welders and electricians in Faisalabad, Punjab.\n\nThe institute to train school dropouts was the dream of Father Clement Sethupathy, a Sri Lankan missionary in Pakistan, since 1965. In 1985, he initiated a project that would make technical skills training available to them.\n\nFeasibility studies were done, plans made, and funding agencies contacted over several years. In August 1990, Misereor, the German Catholic bishops' development aid agency, agreed to finance the entire project.\n\nIts first batch of motor mechanics, welders and electricians graduated in 1993, after a single year of operation. The 27 graduates participating in the first commencement ceremonies on October 22, 1993, were addressed by Father Bashir Francis, vicar general of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Faisalabad.\n\nIn 1997, there were 45 young men learning and honing their skills in auto mechanics, electrical mechanics, plumbing and welding at the school, which has facilities to train 75 students at a time.\n\nTo qualify, a youth must be 15 to 24 years of age and must have completed eighth grade in school.\n\nThe institute comprises the technical school and a residential Boys' Town. These are complementary and interdependent, both aiming to help young Christian men find more and better opportunities in life.\n\nSpread over three hectares in the suburbs of Faisalabad, the institute houses boarders as well as enrolling day students for technical courses.\n\nIn 2003, the Marist Brothers took over the management of the institute. On September 11, 2006, the Marist Brothers celebrated their forty-year presence in Pakistan with a thanksgiving Mass at the institute.\n"}
{"id": "2877639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2877639", "title": "TET", "text": "TET\n\nTET/PRAO (\"Työelämään tutustuminen\" in Finnish, \"Praktisk arbetslivsorientering\" in Swedish, lit. \"familiarization with working life\") is a program providing one to three weeks of experience working in a real job during middle school (lower secondary education) in Finland and Sweden.\n\nThe program is one to three weeks long and takes place in 7th, 8th or 9th grade, depending on the school. Each student can choose and apply to their job independently and has to sign a contract with both the school and the employer. Often students end up working with a relative or friend.\n\nStudents working in the program are normally entitled to one free meal per day, but they receive no salary or allowance. Costs incurred by the employer are paid by the Finnish/Swedish state.\n\nThe purpose of the program is to introduce students to real-life working environments. TET students normally have a six-hour workday, with only one mandatory 30-minute lunch break. Rules require that no heavy lifting (over 15 kg) be part of normal labour, and there are other specifications.\n\n"}
{"id": "8939705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8939705", "title": "Tbilisi State Institute of Economic Relations", "text": "Tbilisi State Institute of Economic Relations\n\nTbilisi State Institute Of Economic Relations (TSIER) is a state educational institution in Georgia. It is a business college. It is based in the capital city of Tbilisi. It has three campuses throughout the country: two in Tbilisi and one in Rustavi and serves more than 3,000 students. It is considered to be the top business school in Georgia. TSIER is fully accredited by the Ministry Of Education of Georgia. The school's success is popularly attributed to Dr. Guram Tavartkiladze, who has been its President and Rector since the founding day of March 19, 1992.\n\nDue to popular desire of Dr. Guram Tavartkiladze, Georgian government, general public and foreign governments of western countries (primarily Germany and the United States) to establish a business school in Georgia, Tbilisi State Institute of Economic Relations was founded on March 19, 1992 according to the decree of the Ministry of Education of Georgia. Dr. Guram Tavartkiladze was appointed as its Rector and President. Main agenda of the institution was to bring up highly qualified business managers to help Georgia, the newly independent state of the former Soviet Union, to adopt to capitalism and ease transition from command economy to market economy.\n"}
{"id": "17976287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17976287", "title": "The Baird Lecture", "text": "The Baird Lecture\n\nThe Baird Lecture is a lectureship that was endowed by James Baird to promote the Christian religion.\n\nIn 1873 James Baird established The Baird Trust and gave into its care £500,000 to be used for aggressive Christian work. A part of the income of this fund was to provide for a series of lectures in Glasgow and also, if required, at one other of the Scottish university towns. Each course was to be delivered by a minister of the Church of Scotland, who could be reappointed, and was to consist of at least six lectures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46443801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46443801", "title": "The Crystal Rainforest", "text": "The Crystal Rainforest\n\nThe Crystal Rain Forest is an educational puzzle game developed and published by Sherston Software for use in primary schools. It was originally released in 1992 for the Acorn Archimedes. A later version was released for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS in 1999, alongside \"Mission Control V2\".\n\nThe game takes place on the planet Oglo. In the kingdom of Azon, the last remaining rainforest is being cut down by the antagonistic \"Cut and Run Gang\". The king of Azon ordered the Cut and Run Gang to stop threatening the rainforest, and is shortly shot by a poison dart. The two protagonists must take part in a variety of settings and activities to retrieve the magical rainforest crystals to save the king and stop the deforestation of the planet.\n\nThe game is presented in a first-person perspective, in which the player has to use various controls and mechanisms to explore the dense rainforests and solve puzzles. The game contains nine fully narrated interactive activities which includes machinery, puzzles, computer programmes and control mechanisms. The player-characters takes part in various scenarios including puzzle solving and programming.\n"}
{"id": "15206116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15206116", "title": "University of Rhode Island", "text": "University of Rhode Island\n\nThe University of Rhode Island, commonly referred to as URI, is the flagship public research as well as the land grant and sea grant university for the state of Rhode Island. Its main campus is located in the village of Kingston in southern Rhode Island. Additionally, smaller campuses include the Feinstein Campus in Providence, the Rhode Island Nursing Education Center in Providence, the Narragansett Bay Campus in Narragansett, and the W. Alton Jones Campus in West Greenwich.\n\nThe university offers bachelor's degrees, master's degrees, and doctoral degrees in 80 undergraduate and 49 graduate areas of study through eight academic colleges. These colleges include Arts and Sciences, Business, Education and Professional Studies, Engineering, Health Sciences, Environment and Life Sciences, Nursing, and Pharmacy. Another college, University College for Academic Success, serves primarily as an advising college for all incoming undergraduates and follows them through their first two years of enrollment at URI.\n\nThe University enrolled about 13,600 undergraduate and 3,000 graduate students in Fall 2015. \"U.S. News & World Report\" classifies URI as a tier 1 national university, ranking it tied for 161st in the U.S.\n\nThe university was first chartered as the state's agricultural school and agricultural experiment station in 1888. The site of the school was originally the Oliver Watson Farm, whose original farmhouse is now a small museum. In 1892, the school became known as the Rhode Island College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts. The first class had only seventeen students, each completing their course of study in two years. In 1909, the school's name was again changed to Rhode Island State College as the school's programs were expanded beyond its original agricultural education mandate. In 1951 the school was given its current title through an act of the General Assembly following the addition of the College of Arts and Sciences and the offering of doctoral degrees. The Board of Governors for Higher Education, appointed by the governor, became the governing body of the University in 1981 during the presidency of Frank Newman (1974–1983). The Board of Governors was replaced by the Rhode Island Board of Education in 2013. The current president is David M. Dooley.\n\nA list of Presidents of the University of Rhode Island:\n\nIn 2013 the faculty adopted an open-access policy to make its scholarship publicly accessible online.\n\nURI's main campus is located in northern South Kingstown, and is accessed via Rhode Island Route 138 from either the west (Interstate 95) or east (United States Route 1). The campus was mostly farmland when it was purchased by the state in 1888, and still includes the c. 1796 Oliver Watson Farmhouse. The early buildings of the campus are set around its main quadrangle, and were built out of locally quarried granite. The campus master plan was developed by the noted landscape architects Olmsted, Olmsted & Eliot in the 1890s. The central portion of the campus, where most of its pre-1950 buildings are located, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2017.\n\n\"U.S. News & World Report\" classifies URI as a tier 1 national university, ranking it tied for 161st overall.\n\nThe average incoming freshman at the Kingston campus for the fall of 2017 had a GPA of 3.54 and an SAT score of 1178 (out of 1600) (with ACT scores convereted to SAT scale).\n\nThe University of Rhode Island Department of Athletics and Recreation fields teams that compete in 17 intercollegiate sports. The University is a member of the Atlantic 10 Conference and the Colonial Athletic Association in the NCAA Division I Football Championship Subdivision. Athletic facilities include the Ryan Center, Keaney Gymnasium, Meade Stadium, Mackal Field House, Tootell Aquatic Center, Bradford R. Boss Arena, URI Soccer Complex, Bill Beck Field, and URI Softball Complex.\nThe Director of Athletics is Thorr Bjorn, who previously worked at the University of Massachusetts. The most notable team would be Rhode Island Rams men's basketball.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39729769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39729769", "title": "Viral Hepatitis Congress", "text": "Viral Hepatitis Congress\n\nThe Viral Hepatitis Congress is an academic conference aimed broadly at gastroenterologists, hepatologists, and specifically at viral hepatitis-treating clinicians and clinical researchers.\n\nThe inaugural Congress was held at the Goethe University Frankfurt from Friday 7 September to Sunday 9 September 2012. In the region of 400 delegates, representing 43 countries, attended for the two and half day programme, featuring keynote lectures, plenary sessions and industry symposia. Scientific abstracts were accepted to the Congress and presented as either poster or oral communications, the abstracts presented at the meeting were published as a supplement to the \"Journal of Viral Hepatitis\". In 2012 and 2013, the Viral Hepatitis Congress was accredited by the European Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (EACCME) and institution of the European Union of Medical Specialists, and designated for up to 13 hours of European external CME credits.\n\nThe 2013 Congress took place at the Messe Frankfurt Congress Center from Thursday 26 September to Saturday 28 September 2013. Topics included:\n\n\nThe abstracts presented at the 2013 Congress were again published as a supplement to the \"Journal of Viral Hepatitis\".\n\nThe 2014 Congress will take place from Thursday 9 October to Saturday 11 October, in Frankfurt.\n"}
{"id": "32612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32612", "title": "Virtual reality", "text": "Virtual reality\n\nVirtual reality (VR) is an interactive computer-generated experience taking place within a simulated environment. It incorporates mainly auditory and visual feedback, but may also allow other types of sensory feedback like haptic. This immersive environment can be similar to the real world or it can be fantastical. Augmented reality systems may also be considered a form of VR that layers virtual information over a live camera feed into a headset or through a smartphone or tablet device giving the user the ability to view three-dimensional images.\n\nCurrent VR technology most commonly uses virtual reality headsets or multi-projected environments, sometimes in combination with physical environments or props, to generate realistic images, sounds and other sensations that simulate a user's physical presence in a virtual or imaginary environment. A person using virtual reality equipment is able to \"look around\" the artificial world, move around in it, and interact with virtual features or items. The effect is commonly created by VR headsets consisting of a head-mounted display with a small screen in front of the eyes, but can also be created through specially designed rooms with multiple large screens.\n\nVR systems that include transmission of vibrations and other sensations to the user through a game controller or other devices are known as haptic systems. This tactile information is generally known as force feedback in medical, video gaming, and military training applications.\n\n\"Virtual\" has had the meaning of \"being something in essence or effect, though not actually or in fact\" since the mid-1400s. The term \"virtual\" has been used in the computer sense of \"not physically existing but made to appear by software\" since 1959. \nIn 1938, the French avant-garde playwright Antonin Artaud described the illusory nature of characters and objects in the theatre as in a collection of essays, \"\". The English translation of this book, published in 1958 as \"The Theater and its Double\", is the earliest published use of the term \"virtual reality\". The term \"artificial reality\", coined by Myron Krueger, has been in use since the 1970s. The term \"virtual reality\" was first used in a science fiction context in \"The Judas Mandala\", a 1982 novel by Damien Broderick.\n\nA \"cyberspace\" is a networked virtual reality.\n\nVirtual reality shares some elements with \"augmented reality\" (or AR). AR is a type of virtual reality technology that blends what the user sees in their \"real\" surroundings with digital content generated by computer software. The additional software-generated images with the virtual scene typically enhance how the real surroundings look in some way. Some AR systems use a camera to capture the user's surroundings or some type of display screen which the user looks at (e.g., Microsoft's HoloLens, Magic Leap).\n\nThe Virtual Reality Modelling Language (VRML), first introduced in 1994, was intended for the development of \"virtual worlds\" without dependency on headsets. The Web3D consortium was subsequently founded in 1997 for the development of industry standards for web-based 3D graphics. The consortium subsequently developed X3D from the VRML framework as an archival, open-source standard for web-based distribution of VR content.\n\nAll modern VR displays are based on technology developed for smartphones including: gyroscopes and motion sensors for tracking head, hand, and body positions; small HD screens for stereoscopic displays; and small, lightweight and fast processors. These components led to relative affordability for independent VR developers, and lead to the 2012 Oculus Rift Kickstarter offering the first independently developed VR headset.\n\nIndependent production of VR images and video has increased by the development of omnidirectional cameras, also known as 360-degree cameras or VR cameras, that have the ability to record in all directions, although at low-resolutions or in highly compressed formats for online streaming of 360 video. In contrast, photogrammetry is increasingly used to combine several high-resolution photographs for the creation of detailed 3D objects and environments in VR applications.\n\nThe exact origins of virtual reality are disputed, partly because of how difficult it has been to formulate a definition for the concept of an alternative existence. The development of perspective in Renaissance Europe created convincing depictions of spaces that did not exist, in what has been referred to as the \"multiplying of artificial worlds\". Other elements of virtual reality appeared as early as the 1860s. Antonin Artaud took the view that illusion was not distinct from reality, advocating that spectators at a play should suspend disbelief and regard the drama on stage as reality. The first references to the more modern concept of virtual reality came from science fiction.\n\nMorton Heilig wrote in the 1950s of an \"Experience Theatre\" that could encompass all the senses in an effective manner, thus drawing the viewer into the onscreen activity. He built a prototype of his vision dubbed the Sensorama in 1962, along with five short films to be displayed in it while engaging multiple senses (sight, sound, smell, and touch). Predating digital computing, the Sensorama was a mechanical device. Heilig also developed what he referred to as the \"Telesphere Mask\" (patented in 1960). The patent application described the device as \"a telescopic television apparatus for individual use...The spectator is given a complete sensation of reality, i.e. moving three dimensional images which may be in colour, with 100% peripheral vision, binaural sound, scents and air breezes\".\n\nAround the same time, Douglas Engelbart used computer screens both as input and output devices. In 1968, Ivan Sutherland, with the help of his student Bob Sproull, created what was widely considered to be the first head-mounted display (HMD) system for use in immersive simulation applications. It was primitive both in terms of user interface and realism, and the HMD to be worn by the user was so heavy that it had to be suspended from the ceiling. The graphics comprising the virtual environment were simple wire-frame model rooms. The formidable appearance of the device inspired its name, The Sword of Damocles.\n\nThe VR industry mainly provided VR devices for medical, flight simulation, automobile industry design, and military training purposes from 1970 to 1990.\n\nDavid Em became the first artist to produce navigable virtual worlds at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), where he was Artist in Residence from 1977 to 1984.\n\nThe Aspen Movie Map was created at the MIT in 1978. The program was a crude virtual simulation of Aspen, Colorado in which users could wander the streets in one of the three modes: summer, winter, and polygons. \n\nIn 1979 Eric Howlett developed the Large Expanse, Extra Perspective (LEEP) optical system. The combined system created a stereoscopic image with a field of view wide enough to create a convincing sense of space. The users of the system have been impressed by the sensation of depth [field of view] in the scene and the corresponding realism. The original LEEP system was redesigned for the NASA Ames Research Center in 1985 for their first virtual reality installation, the VIEW (Virtual Interactive Environment Workstation) by Scott Fisher. The LEEP system provides the basis for most of the current virtual reality helmets available today.\n\nAtari founded a research lab for virtual reality in 1982, but the lab was closed after two years due to the Atari Shock (North American video game crash of 1983). However, its hired employees, such as Tom Zimmerman, Scott Fisher, Jaron Lanier, Michael Naimark, and Brenda Laurel, kept their research and development on VR-related technologies. \n\nBy the 1980s the term \"virtual reality\" was popularized by Jaron Lanier, one of the modern pioneers of the field. Lanier had founded the company VPL Research in 1985. VPL Research has developed several VR devices like the Data Glove, the EyePhone, and the Audio Sphere. VPL licensed the Data Glove technology to Mattel, which used it to make an accessory known as the Power Glove. While the Power Glove was hard to use and not popular, at US$75, it was an early affordable VR device.\n\nIn 1991, Carolina Cruz-Neira, Daniel J. Sandin and Thomas A. DeFanti from the Electronic Visualization Laboratory created the first cubic immersive room, The Cave. Developed as Cruz-Neira's PhD thesis, it involved a multi-projected environment, similar to the holodeck, allowing people to see their own bodies in relation to others in the room.\n\nBetween 1989-1992, Nicole Stenger created \"Angels\", the first real-time interactive immersive movie. The interaction was facilitated with a dataglove and high-resolution goggles.\n\nIn 1992, Louis Rosenberg created the Virtual Fixtures system at the U.S. Air Force’s Armstrong Labs using a , enabling a physically realistic virtual reality in 3D. The system enabled the overlay of physically real 3D virtual objects registered with a user's direct view of the real world, producing the first true augmented reality experience enabling sight, sound, and touch.\n\nAntonio Medina, a MIT graduate and NASA scientist, designed a virtual reality system to \"drive\" Mars rovers from Earth in apparent real time despite the substantial delay of Mars-Earth-Mars signals.\n\nThe 1990s saw the first widespread commercial releases of consumer headsets. In 1991, Sega announced the Sega VR headset for arcade games and the Mega Drive console. It used LCD screens in the visor, stereo headphones, and inertial sensors that allowed the system to track and react to the movements of the user's head. In the same year, Virtuality launched and went on to become the first mass-produced, networked, multiplayer VR entertainment system. It was released in many countries, including a dedicated VR arcade at Embarcadero Center in San Francisco. Costing up to $73,000 per multi-pod Virtuality system, they featured headsets and exoskeleton gloves that gave one of the first \"immersive\" VR experiences. \"Computer Gaming World\" predicted \"Affordable VR by 1994\". \n\nBy 1994, Sega released the Sega VR-1 motion simulator arcade attraction, in SegaWorld amusement arcades. It was able to track head movement and featured 3D polygon graphics in stereoscopic 3D, powered by the Sega Model 1 arcade system board. Apple released QuickTime VR, which, despite using the term \"VR\", was unable to represent virtual reality, and instead displayed 360 photographic panoramas.\n\nNintendo's Virtual Boy console was released in 1995. Also in 1995, a group in Seattle created public demonstrations of a \"CAVE-like\" 270 degree immersive projection room called the Virtual Environment Theater, produced by entrepreneurs Chet Dagit and Bob Jacobson. Forte released the VFX1, a PC-powered virtual reality headset in 1995.\n\nIn 1999, entrepreneur Philip Rosedale formed Linden Lab with an initial focus on the development of VR hardware. In its earliest form, the company struggled to produce a commercial version of \"The Rig\", which was realized in prototype form as a clunky steel contraption with several computer monitors that users could wear on their shoulders. The concept was later adapted into the personal computer-based, 3D virtual world Second Life.\n\nIn 2001, SAS Cube (SAS3) became the first PC based cubic room, developed by Z-A Production (Maurice Benayoun, David Nahon), Barco, and Clarté. It was installed in Laval, France. The SAS library gave birth to Virtools VRPack. \n\nBy 2007, Google introduced Street View, a service that shows panoramic views of an increasing number of worldwide positions such as roads, indoor buildings and rural areas. It also features a stereoscopic 3D mode, introduced in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Palmer Luckey designed the first prototype of the Oculus Rift. This prototype, built on a shell of another virtual reality headset, was only capable of rotational tracking. However, it boasted a 90-degree field of vision that was previously unseen in the consumer market at the time. This initial design would later serve as a basis from which the later designs came. In 2014, Facebook purchased Oculus VR for $2 billion. This purchase occurred after the first development kits ordered through Oculus' 2012 Kickstarter had shipped in 2013 but before the shipping of their second development kits in 2014.\n\nIn 2013, Valve Corporation discovered and freely shared the breakthrough of low-persistence displays which make lag-free and smear-free display of VR content possible. This was adopted by Oculus and was used in all their future headsets. In early 2014, Valve showed off their SteamSight prototype, the precursor to both consumer headsets released in 2016. It shared major features with the consumer headsets including separate 1K displays per eye, low persistence, positional tracking over a large area, and fresnel lenses.\n\nIn 2014, Sony announced Project Morpheus (its code name for PlayStation VR), a virtual reality headset for the PlayStation 4 video game console. In 2015, HTC and Valve announced the virtual reality headset HTC Vive and controllers. The set included tracking technology called Lighthouse, which utilized wall-mounted \"base stations\" for positional tracking using infrared light.\n\nIn 2015, Google announced Cardboard, a do-it-yourself stereoscopic viewer for smartphones. The user places their smartphone in the cardboard holder, which they wear on their head. Michael Naimark was appointed Google's first-ever 'resident artist' in their new VR division. The Kickstarter campaign for Gloveone, a pair of gloves providing motion tracking and haptic feedback, was successfully funded, with over $150,000 in contributions. \n\nBy 2016 there were at least 230 companies developing VR-related products. Facebook had 400 employees focused on VR development; Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Sony and Samsung all had dedicated AR and VR groups. Dynamic binaural audio was common to most headsets released that year. However, haptic interfaces were not well developed, and most hardware packages incorporated button-operated handsets for touch-based interactivity. Visually, displays were still of a low-enough resolution and frame-rate that images were still identifiable as virtual.\n\nIn 2016, HTC shipped its first units of the HTC Vive SteamVR headset. This marked the first major commercial release of sensor-based tracking, allowing for free movement of users within a defined space. In 2017, a patent filed by Sony showed they were developing a similar location tracking technology to the Vive for PlayStation VR, with the potential for the development of a wireless headset.\n\nVR is most commonly used in entertainment applications such as gaming and 3D cinema. Consumer virtual reality headsets were first released by video game companies in the early-mid 1990s. Beginning in the 2010s, next-generation commercial tethered headsets were released by Oculus (Rift), HTC (Vive) and Sony (PlayStation VR), setting off a new wave of application development. 3D cinema has been used for sporting events, pornography, fine art, music videos and short films. Since 2015, roller coasters and theme parks have incorporated virtual reality to match visual effects with haptic feedback .\n\nIn robotics, virtual reality has been used to control robots in telepresence and telerobotic systems. The technology is useful in robotics development such as in experiments that investigate how robots—through virtual articulations—can be applied as an intuitive human interface. For instance, researchers can simulate how robots are remotely controlled in different environments such as in space. Here, virtual reality not only offers insights into the manipulation and locomotion of robotic technology but also shows opportunities for inspection. \n\nIn social sciences and psychology, virtual reality offers a cost-effective tool to study and replicate interactions in a controlled environment. It can be used as a form of therapeutic intervention. For instance, there is the case of the virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET), a form of exposure therapy for treating anxiety disorders such as post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and phobias.\n\nWith the supervision of experts to provide feedback, simulated VR surgical environment provide effective and repeatable training at a low cost, allowing trainees to recognize and amend errors as they occur. \n\nVirtual reality has been used in rehabilitation since the 2000s. Despite numerous studies conducted, good quality evidence of its efficacy compared to other rehabilitation methods without sophisticated and expensive equipment is lacking for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. A 2018 review on the effectiveness of mirror therapy by virtual reality and robotics for any type of pathology concluded in a similar way.\n\nVR has also been used in research of the behavior of individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). A study was conducted in which a two-dimensional avatar was used to compare the degree of mimicry in neurotypical and ASD participants. The study showed the potential for VR to promote mimicry and revealed the difference between neurotypical and ASD individuals in their response to a two-dimensional avatar.\n\nVR can simulate real workspaces for workplace occupational safety and health purposes, educational purposes, and training purposes. It can be used to provide learners with a virtual environment where they can develop their skills without the real-world consequences of failing. It has been used and studied in primary education, military, astronaut training, flight simulators, miner training, driver training and bridge inspection. Supplementing military training with virtual training environments has been claimed to offer avenues of realism in military and healthcare training while minimizing cost. It also has been claimed to reduce military training costs by minimizing the amounts of ammunition expended during training periods.\n\nApplications for VR are facilitated by technologies that go beyond the use of graphics and headsets. There are a multitude of techniques, technologies, and hardware solutions to enhance the immersive experience and derive data from the users’ responses to that experience. The use of haptic clothing, eye tracking technologies, and “Fourth Dimension” sensory stimulation are becoming especially popular and useful.\n\nThe first fine art virtual world was created in the 1970s. As the technology developed, more artistic programs were produced throughout the 1990s, including feature films. When commercially available technology became more widespread, VR festivals began to emerge in the mid-2010s. The first uses of VR in museum settings began in the 1990s, seeing a significant increase in the mid-2010s. Additionally, museums have begun making some of their content virtual reality accessible. \n\nImmersive VR engineering systems enable engineers to see virtual prototypes prior to the availability of any physical prototypes.\n\nVirtual reality's growing market presents an opportunity and an alternative channel for digital marketing. It is also seen as a new platform for e-commerce, particularly in the bid to challenge traditional brick and mortar retailers. A study revealed that the majority of goods are still purchased in physical stores. For this reason, the simulated store environment made possible by VR technology has the potential to attract more consumers since it offers an almost similar experience in the physical store without the inconvenience of being there.\n\nThere have been many works of fiction that reference and describe forms of virtual reality. \n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, cyberpunks viewed the technology as a potential means for social change. The recreational drug subculture praised virtual reality not only as a new art form, but as an entirely new frontier.\n\nThere are many health and safety considerations of virtual reality. Most virtual reality systems come with consumer warnings, including: seizures; developmental issues in children; trip-and-fall and collision warnings; discomfort; repetitive stress injury; and interference with medical devices. Some users may experience twitches, seizures or blackouts while using VR headsets, even if they do not have a history of epilepsy and have never had blackouts or seizures before. As many as one in 4000 people may experience these symptoms. Since these symptoms are more common among people under the age of 20, children are advised against using VR headsets. Other problems may occur in physical interactions with one's environment. While wearing VR headsets, people quickly lose awareness of their real-world surroundings and may injure themselves by tripping over, or colliding with real-world objects.\n\nA number of unwanted symptoms have been caused by prolonged use of virtual reality, and these may have slowed proliferation of the technology. For example, in 1995, Nintendo released a gaming console known as the Virtual Boy. Worn as a headpiece and connected to a typical controller, the Virtual Boy received much criticism for its negative physical effects, including \"dizziness, nausea, and headaches\". VR headsets may regularly cause eye fatigue, as does all screened technology, because people tend to blink less when watching screens, causing their eyes to become more dried out. There have been some concerns about VR headsets contributing to myopia, but although VR headsets sit close to the eyes, they may not necessarily contribute to nearsightedness if the focal length of the image being displayed is sufficiently far away. Virtual reality sickness (also known as cybersickness) occurs when a person's exposure to a virtual environment causes symptoms that are similar to motion sickness symptoms. The most common symptoms are general discomfort, headache, stomach awareness, nausea, vomiting, pallor, sweating, fatigue, drowsiness, disorientation, and apathy. These motion sickness symptoms are caused by a disconnect between what is being seen and what the rest of the body perceives. When the vestibular system, the body's internal balancing system, does not experience the motion that it expects from visual input through the eyes, the user may experience VR sickness. This can also happen if the VR system does not have a high enough frame rate, or if there is a lag between the body's movement and the onscreen visual reaction to it. Because approximately 25–40% of people experience some kind of VR sickness when using VR machines, companies are actively looking for ways to reduce VR sickness.\n\nThe persistent tracking required by all VR systems makes the technology particularly useful for, and vulnerable to, mass surveillance. The expansion of VR will increase the potential and reduce the costs for information gathering of personal actions, movements and responses.\n\nIn addition, there are conceptual and philosophical considerations and implications associated with the use of virtual reality. What the phrase \"virtual reality\" means or refers to can be ambiguous. Mychilo S. Cline argued in 2005 that through virtual reality techniques will be developed to influence human behavior, interpersonal communication, and cognition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56308710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56308710", "title": "Wisecrack (company)", "text": "Wisecrack (company)\n\nWisecrack, inc. is an American film and video production company operated by Jacob Salamon, Jared Bauer, Greg Edwards, Drew Levin, and Todd Mendeloff. The company was founded in 2014 and produces various web series and podcasts such as \"Thug Notes\", \"Earthling Cinema\", and \"8-Bit Philosophy\". The group is focused on an analysis of anime, film, literature, and video games drawing out philosophy, sociology, psychology and other meanings that can be interpreted from media.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088474", "title": "World Service Authority", "text": "World Service Authority\n\nThe World Service Authority (WSA), \nfounded in 1954, is a non-profit organization that claims to educate about and promote \"world citizenship\", \"world law\", and World Government. It is best known for selling World Passports.\n\nWSA has an office in Washington, D.C. The office in Shanghai, People's Republic of China, closed on 1 January 2010. attorney David M. Gallup was the president of WSA.\n\nThe WSA was founded by Garry Davis, a former Broadway actor and World War II bomber pilot, who officially gave up his U.S. citizenship in 1948 to live as a \"citizen of the world\". It was set up to be the administrative agency of the \"World Government of World Citizens\" which he declared on 4 September 1953. The first office was opened in New York City in 1954. In the past, WSA also had offices in Basel, London and Tokyo. \n\nBesides selling World Passports, the WSA registers customers as \"world citizens\" and sells \"world citizen\" identity documents, such as fantasy birth certificates, identity cards, marriage certificates, political asylum cards, \"International Exit Visas\" and \"International Residence Permits\". The organization's legal department is responsible to assist holders of its documents.\nThe organization also promotes programs, such as \"Mundialization\" – declaring cities and towns as \"world territories\"; \"World Syntegrity Project\" – an attempt to create a world constitution through meetings of citizens; and other programs.\nWSA is also involved in a project to establish a World Court of Human Rights. The WSA has also allegedly sold World Government Postal Stamps, which, according to Garry Davis, helped to convey thousands of letters between China and Taiwan in the early 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22703874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22703874", "title": "Yenka", "text": "Yenka\n\nYenka is a suite of educational software products which lets students simulate scientific experiments, create mathematical models, design electronic circuits or learn computer programming. Yenka is developed by Crocodile Clips Ltd.\n\nYenka uses a unified interface to model reactions in scientific and technological subject areas, often in 3D. Users see results in real time or simulated time at 0.1x or 10x speed, replicating actual results (a completed circuit will illuminate a light-emitting diode (LED), but applying too much electric current will destroy it). Yenka also allows educators to design lessons and interactive content for students. The extension is .yka.\n\nYenka is divided into four main groupings: science, computing, mathematics and technology. The products include\n\nSimulates program flow and logic using 3D characters and interaction.\n\nIntroduces computer programming by controlling 3D dancing characters.\n\nUses coins, dice and variables to illustrate statistics.\n\nA 3D modeling tool for experimenting with 3D geometry.\n\nRenders the effects of reflection, refraction, lenses and moving sources.\n\nModels the effects of gravity, velocity, elasticity and the physical laws.\n\nSimulates the chemical reactions between over 100 chemicals, even at the molecular level.\n\nModels electrolysis, electroplating and cells with over a range of metals and electrolytes.\n\nAllows the design of circuit schematics and their effects using thousands of components.\n\nConverts circuit design into 3D printed circuit boards (PCB)s, allowing for export to manufacturers.\n\nFlowchart programming interface for PICs and PICAXE chips, including exporting programs to a physical PIC or PICAXE.\n\nModels reactions between 3D gears, motors and chain drives.\n\nSimulates electricity generation and transmission, and analogue electrical circuits in real-time.\n\nA modeling tool for teaching about 2D and 3D coordinates.\n\nSome Yenka products may be sampled for 15 days for use in schools (for full use of the software, a license must be purchased), however home users can download the entire range of software free of charge, however with some limitations like not using the software during school hours.\n"}
