{"id": "13465993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13465993", "title": "19th-Century Music", "text": "19th-Century Music\n\n19th-Century Music is a U.S. triannual music journal published by University of California Press, in Berkeley, California, and established in 1977. Dealing with musical life in Europe and the Americas during the era of the \"long century\" (ca. 1780-1920), the journal embraces a wide variety of issues encompassing aesthetics, hermeneutics, theory, analysis, performance practice, gender, sexuality, reception, and historiography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8588377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8588377", "title": "Aliza Olmert", "text": "Aliza Olmert\n\nAliza Olmert (; born 1946) is an Israeli artist, photographer, author and social worker. She is married to former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.\n\nAliza Olmert was born in a displaced persons camp in Eschwege, Germany. Her parents were Holocaust survivors from Łódź, Poland. She immigrated to Israel with her family in 1949, grew up in Ramat Gan, and served as an instructor in the Israel Defense Forces. She met her husband, Ehud Olmert, at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where she was studying social work. The Olmerts live in Jerusalem's Katamon neighborhood. They have five children (including Shaul Olmert), one of them adopted.\n\nIn 1985–1988, at the age of 40, Olmert studied environmental design at the Bezalel Academy of Art and Design. In Israel, Olmert has exhibited at the Museum on the Seam in Jerusalem, the Museum of Israeli Art in Ramat Gan, the Eretz Israel Museum in Tel Aviv and the Tel Aviv Artists' House. Her work has also been exhibited in Japan, Uruguay, Italy, Britain, Poland, Argentina and New York. In March 2008, she was awarded the Steiger Prize in Germany.\n\nOlmert espouses left-wing politics, and has been accused of influencing her husband's political views. Olmert dislikes the political limelight, and says that their most difficult period as a couple was 1993–2003, when Ehud was mayor of Jerusalem.\n\nShe is said to support Meretz.\n\nOlmert is active in social programs promoting child welfare. She is the chairman of Or Shalom and Tlalim, which aid children at risk and families with homebound sick children. Olmert is also a member of the Action Committee for Children of Foreign Workers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30332356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30332356", "title": "Amy Berg (writer)", "text": "Amy Berg (writer)\n\nAmy Berg grew up in Castro Valley, California, USA. She is an American TV writer and showrunner, known best for her work on \"Counterpart\", \"Da Vinci's Demons\", \"Person of Interest\", \"Eureka\", \"Leverage\", and \"The 4400\". Her other television credits include \"Boomtown\" and \"Threshold\". She was also a featured performer at w00tstock 3.0 during San Diego Comic Con in 2011. In September 2011, she made a guest appearance as herself in an episode of \"Eureka\" guest star Felicia Day's web series \"The Guild\". Similarly, in May 2013 she made a guest appearance as herself in an episode of \"Eureka\" and \"Leverage\" guest star Wil Wheaton's web series \"TableTop\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39772905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39772905", "title": "Arthur Tatham", "text": "Arthur Tatham\n\nArthur Tatham (1808–1874), was a member of the Shoreham Ancients, a group of followers of William Blake.\n\nThe second son of Charles Heathcote Tatham, an architect.\n\nTatham and his brother Frederick Tatham and his sister Julia were all associated with the Ancients (art group).\n\nHis sister Julia married another member, George Richmond, the father of William Blake Richmond.\n\nHe was for over forty years rector of Broadoak and Boconnoc, Cornwall, and prebendary of Exeter Cathedral.\n\n"}
{"id": "14221526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14221526", "title": "Artist cooperative", "text": "Artist cooperative\n\nAn artist cooperative (also co-operative or co-op) is an autonomous visual arts organization, enterprise, or association jointly owned and democratically controlled by its members. Artist cooperatives are legal entities organized as non-capital stock corporations, non-profit organizations, or unincorporated associations. Such cooperatives typically provide professional facilities and services for its artist-members, including studios, workshops, equipment, exhibition galleries, and educational resources. By design, all economic and non-economic benefits and liabilities of the cooperative are shared equally among its members. Cooperative members elect their board of directors from within the membership.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36372516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36372516", "title": "Blue Apple Theatre", "text": "Blue Apple Theatre\n\nBlue Apple Theatre is an award-winning inclusive theatre company based in Winchester, England. It was founded in 2005 by Jane Jessop to pioneer the inclusion of actors with intellectual disabilities on mainstream stages. In May 2012, six Blue Apple actors made history by touring a ground-breaking re-imagining of William Shakespeare's Hamlet around the South of England. They were the first actors with Down syndrome to perform the play professionally.in 2016 the company made history again with 5 performers, four of whom have Down's syndrome performing scenes from Shakespeare on stage in the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse at Shakespeare's Globe Theatre in London..\n\nIn June 2012, Blue Apple Theatre was named as the 1000th winner of the Queen's Award for Voluntary Service in recognition of the great efforts of its voluntary staff.\n\nBlue Apple was founded in 2005 by Jane Jessop to provide opportunities for people with a wide range of learning difficulties to participate in high quality theatre and dance opportunities. Her aim was to enable them to discover and explore their talents on and off stage and to challenge expectations, with no ceiling on the opportunities given to them or on our expectations of them. She was inspired by the experience of her son Tommy Jessop who was acting with the BBC. Over 50 people came to each of the pilot workshops and Blue Apple has had a waiting list ever since.\n\nJane Jessop led the company for over ten years during which time Blue Apple won several awards, gained Arts Council funding, developed a film programme and broke through many barriers, enabling Blue Apple's performers to work in a professional environment, bring celebrated performances to mainstream theatres, and attract audiences of several thousand to touring productions. Jane's final project was a tenth birthday performance event on stage at Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre in London.\n\nBlue Apple now delivers over 400 drama and dance workshops a year for over 70 members, in addition to two professional theatre shows and one touring production each year. the company attracts audiences from all over England and has become respected as a leading producer of theatre and dance by performers who have disabilities.\n\nThe company's first show was a basic Variety show called \"Born to be Blue\". This was such a success it was followed by a fully costumed pantomime \"Cinderella and the Wolf\" written with the cast by the playwright and film maker William Jessop. The company has created two full-scale productions a year ever since and launched a touring programme.\n\nIn 2008 the Apple Core auditioned theatre training group was established, Blue Apple launched its dance programme, made its first film and had a membership of around 50 people with learning disabilities. Blue Apple actors and dancers performed to a standing ovation in London, and in Brighton, Birmingham and around London. Blue Apple won its first award for changing the way people see and understand learning disability in spring 2009.\nIn Autumn 2009, Blue Apple appointed their first arts consultant Peter Clerke, who in 2012 became the company's first Artistic Director. Peter Clerke worked with the playwright William Jessop to create various productions including promenade performances of A Midsummer Night's Dream to mark Blue Apple's fifth anniversary in June 2010, an original play called \"Captain Miserable and the Book Guardian\" for Christmas 2010, a lively comic adaptation of Gogol's The Government Inspector for Summer 2011, a groundbreaking touring adaptation of Hamlet for 2012, an adaptation of Feydeau The Hotel du Paradis for full company performance in 2013 and adaptations of Much Ado About Nothing for both the touring and main company productions in 2014.\n\nVolunteer support has always been vital to the success of the company. The crucial support of nearly 200 volunteers who have supported Blue Apple since its foundation was recognised by the Queen when in 2012 Blue Apple became the 1,000th winner of the Queen’s Award for volunteering.\n\nIn 2008, Blue Apple Theatre introduced an intensive theatre training scheme for auditioned actors and dancers which has evolved into Blue Apple's touring company. The \"Apple Core\" began by creating various theatre and dance productions for performance at local and national events such as the Winchester Hat Fair, Mencap conferences, medical schools and universities and two of the actors performed scenes from Hamlet in the cabinet office as part of the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II.\n\nIn Autumn 2011, the six Apple Core actors (Four of the six have Downs syndrome) created the company's first major touring production, the hard hitting \"Living Without Fear\", which addressed the difficult subject of disability hate crime as perpetrated towards people with learning disabilities.Living Without Fear toured nationally and was performed to over 4,000 people including MPs and ministers in Parliament and over 600 school children and 800 police personnel. The Hampshire Chronicle described the play as 'the most powerful production seen in Winchester for many years'. \"Living Without Fear\" had its second tour in March and April 2013. In March 2012, Blue Apple Theatre received funding from the Home Office for the filmmaker William Jessop to create a film adaptation of the play for and with Hampshire Constabulary.\n\nIn May 2012, the Apple Core actors created a radical new touring production of Hamlet and in 2014 toured Much Ado About Nothing to theatres across the south of England and at RADA.\n\nIn 2012, Blue Apple received Arts Council England funding for its Core actors to tour a groundbreaking production of Hamlet to theatres across the South of England, playing at illustrious venues like the Minack Theatre in Cornwall and the Rose Theatre, Kingston. The production received positive reviews in The Stage and the Hampshire Chronicle. Blue Apple's Hamlet was performed to over 3,500 people in all and scenes were performed by Tommy Jessop, and Lawrie Morris in the cabinet office in 2012 and by Tommy Jessop, and Katy Francis on stage at Shakespeare's Globe Theatre's Sam Wanamaker Playhouse in 2016..\n\nThe role of Hamlet was played by the Down Syndrome TV actor Tommy Jessop, who starred in Coming Down the Mountain and has appeared in Holby City, Casualty, Monroe and Doctors. The other actors were Anna Brisbane, Ros Davies, James Elsworthy, Katy Francis and Lawrie Morris.\n\nAt the end of June 2012, the Core actors returned to the main company for three performances of \"Hamlet\" at the Theatre Royal, Winchester.\n\nThe story of Blue Apple's Hamlet is the subject of William Jessop's emmy nominated BBC 3 feature documentary, \"Growing Up Down's\" The Times reviewed it as \"William Jessop's fabulous documentary... a triumph for the cast, for BBC Three, and for everyone involved in this life-enhancing project.\"\n\nAs well as producing plays, Blue Apple runs an award-winning dance programme and makes films.\n\n\"Perils of Penelope \" is a short film made in 2008 by the whole company in the style of early silent movies.\n\n\"Freddie's Story\" is a 40-minute training DVD starring Tommy Jessop, which tackles diagnostic overshadowing, gaining consent from someone with a learning disability, communication and care in hospital through dramatized scenes and face to face training by people who have learning disabilities and a hospital consultant. \"Freddie's Story\" is being used for training medical staff by the National Health Service in hospitals across Britain.\n\n\"Paul's story\" is a short training film commissioned by the police and funded by the Home Office. \"Paul's Story\" stars James Elsworthy and tackles difficult issues around hate crime aimed at people with learning disabilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "21966974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21966974", "title": "Book of Chivalry", "text": "Book of Chivalry\n\nThe Book of Chivalry (French: Livre de chevalerie) was written by the knight Geoffroi de Charny (c.1306-1356) sometime around the early 1350s. The treatise is intended to explain the appropriate qualities for a knight, reform the behavior of the fighting classes, and defend the chivalric ethos against its critics, mainly in clerical circles.\n\nGeoffroi de Charny was intensely involved in the first phase of the Anglo-French conflict known as the Hundred Years' War. The first record of his campaigns against the English appear in 1337, and despite being captured twice, Charny grew in prestige from a minor member of the nobility to one of the most respected knights in France, especially under the kingship of Jean II of France. Jean created the Company of the Star in 1352, intending the chivalric order to outshine that of his rival, Edward III of England, who had shortly before created the Order of the Garter. Charny was promptly made a member of the Company of the Star, and it is believed that he wrote his \"Book of Chivalry\" in this context. However, the Company began to lose members immediately due to losses on the battlefield, both in civil wars and against the English. In 1356, Jean II was captured during the Battle of Poitiers, leading to the complete breakdown of the order. It was in this same battle that Charny, along with many other French knights, died exemplifying the chivalric ethos that he described in his treatise.\n\nCharny’s book is unique in its focus. Unlike earlier works such as Vegetius' \"De Re Militari\", or later ones such as Christine de Pizan's \"The Book of Deeds of Arms and of Chivalry\", Charny’s \"Book of Chivalry\" is not intended as a manual for how to conduct military operations. He approaches his subject from a conceptual basis, explaining the qualities associated with worthy knights. Moreover, although he does touch upon issues of courtliness, he is more preoccupied with the maintenance of knightly hardiness and war-readiness. For Charny, the essence of knighthood is prowess, and all of his various themes solidify the importance of this concept.\n\nCharny is unwilling to dismiss even slight displays of chivalry, but does insist on prioritizing deeds of arms. The worthiness of these deeds is assessed by the degree of danger, pain, and suffering that they entail. Thus, Charny begins his work by describing feats performed in tournaments and jousts, staged conflicts that could still be quite violent. Charny notes “Indeed they are worthy of praise; nevertheless, he who does more is of greater worth.” (This is a refrain repeated in various formats throughout the book.) Charny follows this section by describing feats done in real war, then arguing that the added danger gives such feats more intrinsic worth. A similar theme emerges throughout the book: those feats that involve less danger or are performed for shallow reasons are still chivalrous and worthy of honor, but deeds involving great peril and done for pure motives bring a knight greater glory and renown.\n\nCharny is intensely concerned that the most powerful members of society set a positive example for the lower orders, and especially for young knights. After acknowledging that knights of higher social standing—the “valiant lords” of society—may receive greater renown than worthier poor knights, he defends this feature of chivalry by explaining that it is because a noble lord can patronize, inspire, and cultivate other knights in the ways of valor. Nevertheless, Charny emphasizes that such lords have greater demands upon their deportment because their fame ensures that any scandal associated with their names will produce more notoriety than with a lesser-known knight. Thus, the great lords in particular must be temperate in their eating habits, avoid gambling and greed, indulge only in honorable pastimes such as jousting and maintaining the company of ladies, keep any romantic liaisons secret, and—most importantly—only be found in the company of worthy men.\n\nIf Charny emphasizes the high moral standard expected of “great men,” his ideal monarch has an even higher caliber of morality to attain. In a section full of repetitive parallelisms, Charny argues that the ancestors of contemporary rulers were chosen from among the people, not for a life of ease and corruption, but for service, nobility, and piety.\n\nCharny's advice for rulers and great men is one facet of a wider push for knightly reform. In particular, Charny criticizes what he sees as the growth in indolence and love of luxury. Many of his passages warn against the atrophying power of a pleasurable lifestyle, as well as the spiritual and physical advantages of a more spartan regime. Thus, he advises that knights be temperate in their eating habits, seek hard lodgings rather than soft beds at night, and most importantly, avoid luxurious cloths. In fact, he spends a lengthy section mocking at nobles who all but bared their private parts by wearing tight leggings under tunics that did not fully cover the offending areas. This “shameful” dress is exacerbated in Charny's view by an excessive love of jewels and fine cloth.\n\nAlthough he shows a lack of interest when it comes to courtly love, Charny does not entirely ignore the role of women, analyzing their effect upon and reception of knightly conduct. One of the primary roles he assigns to ladies is the ability to inspire great feats of arm in the knights who have pledged themselves to their love. Charny is convinced that such great ladies share the chivalric values of their men. Thus, a lady will feel pride when her lover is showered with praise and honor by his peers, but shame if he has not performed any great deeds. In fact, Charny argues that a noble lady should abandon any lover who fails in prowess, and that the unfortunate knight has no cause to resent this treatment, since it is his own fault. Lastly, Charny emphasizes that women have no recourse to chivalry in order to achieve honor, arguing the necessity for them to adorn themselves with the jewels and fine clothes so inappropriate for men. Only by dressing beautifully and behaving gracefully can women achieve social respect comparable to that of a chivalrous knight.\n\nCharny's treatise also contains one of the most detailed and straightforward descriptions of a dubbing ceremony. The day before the ceremony, a knight should make his confession, followed by a long bath and a short repose in a bed of clean white sheets. Afterward, he is to be dressed by other knights: new, clean white linens, followed by a red tunic, black hose, white belt, and a red cloak. The knight will keep vigil until the following morning, when he hears Mass and receives Communion. He then receives two gilded spurs and a double-edged sword. Finally, the knights in charge of dubbing him receive him with a kiss and a \"collee\" (a light blow). All of these stages are imbued with religious symbolism, adding a Christianizing layer to an essentially secular ceremony.\n\nCharny also considers the role of knighthood within the larger context of society, discussing three other “orders” in Christendom: the order of marriage, monastic orders, and the priesthood. In discussing both the order of marriage and the monastic world, Charny follows his traditional formula of good-better-best when describing the relative worthiness of those entering into each state. It is good for a man to enter either order late in life, bad for him to enter the order in his middle years, but ideal for him to enter into it as a youth, since those who do so are more likely to be sincere in their commitment. One’s motives for entering each state also affect the worthiness of the calling.\n\nThe order of priesthood Charny holds in rather higher esteem than the first two, claiming that those entering this order must learn its service in detail in their youth so that they can perform it faithfully. This office is so noble that priests should be entirely exempt from other offices.\n\nDespite praising other orders of society, Charny considers knighthood to be the greatest of these orders. Drawing upon medieval ascetic ideals, Charny presents the life of the knight as a sort of passion of suffering and danger. He claims that the trials associated with the knight’s lifestyle outshine even the harshest penances imposed upon monks, thus making it of greater spiritual worth. Moreover, the knight’s life is full of peril and the possibility of dying any time, any place. Thus, Charny concludes his book by pointing out that awareness of their own mortality forced knights, more than any other sector of society, to be prepared at any moment to meet their Creator.\n\n"}
{"id": "26983842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26983842", "title": "British Inspiration Awards", "text": "British Inspiration Awards\n\nThe British Inspiration Awards (BIAs) are a set of industry awards celebrating achievement in the creative industries of the United Kingdom, organised by David Yarnton, the UK managing director for Nintendo. The inaugural awards took place at a ceremony in London on 23 April 2010. The awards, in the shape of a gold statue of Boudica, were presented in a number of categories including art, design, entertainment, fashion and science. All proceeds of the awards are to be donated to various charities.\n\nWith the UK in a recession in the late 2000s, and with a steadily declining manufacturing industry and little natural resources, the creative sector was believed to be the basis for future growth, and was as of 2010 was estimated to already contribute £110billion to the economy per annum, contribute two million jobs, and number over businesses classed as creative.\n\nThe BIAs were initiated by David Yarnton, the UK managing director for Nintendo. He was of the opinion that \"The UK is the creative capital of the World\" and it was \"about time that the UK creative sector was recognised for its achievements\". He was of the belief that, although a world leader in the creative industries, Britain had a tendency to understate its achievements, and thus sought to correct that. The BIAs were therefore created to recognise those who have already contributed to Great Britain's \"economic, social and artistic development through creative endeavor\", and highlight the opportunities Britain offered in the creative industries.\n\nOn the eve of the 2010 United Kingdom general election campaign, on 16 March 2010 the BIAs attracted the support of the Prime Minister Gordon Brown, Conservative Party leader David Cameron and Liberal Democrat Party leader Nick Clegg. The inaugural BIAs were to be presented in a daytime ceremony at The Brewery near Barbican Centre in London on 23 April 2010 (St George's Day). The nominees in each category were announced on 14 April 2010.\n\nAttendees of the ceremony, hosted by Richard Madeley, included nominees David Arnold, Michael Eavis and Gareth Pugh, as well as Phillip Schofield, Ant and Dec, Helen Skelton and Andy Akinwolere.\n\nThe BIA is given \"In recognition of an individual, company or groups contribution to the Creative Economy of Great Britain and the Inspiration that they give to others\". Individual awards are to be presented in categories for the Film; Television; Music; Fashion; Arts; Design; Innovation, Enterprise and Industry; Science and Technology; and Interactive Entertainment industry sectors, as well as a Special Recognition award.\n\nThe BIAs use the symbol of Boudica as their logo and award. Described by the BIA organisers as a \"forward looking woman who inspired others around her\", Boudica was a queen of the ancient tribe of the Iceni of present-day Norfolk, who in AD 60 or 61 led them and neighbouring tribes in a revolt against the authority of Gaius Suetonius Paulinus, the Roman Governor of Britain, before ultimately being defeated.\n\nThe award itself is a gold statue of the stylised version of Boudica depicted in the BIA logo. The logo shows this stylistic representation of Boudica moving forward using four shades of colour, symbolising England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland \"moving forward together as one.\"\n\nThe BIA committee headed by Yarnton is made up of:\nChairman: David Yarnton\n– Russ Lindsay\n– Wendy Malem\n– Tom George\n– Nicola Mendelsohn\n– Philip Snape\n– Allan McLaughlin\n– Adam Clyne\n– Chris Maples\n– Caroline Taylor\n– Elisabeth Murdoch\n– Richard Desmond\n– Sir George Martin\n– Colonel Ben Farrell MBE\n– Lord Michael Grade\n– Lucian Grange CBE\n– Cilla Snowball CBE\n– Ian Livingstone OBE\n– Sir Terence Conran\n– Baroness Susan Greenfield\n\nThe proceeds of the BIAs were to be donated to charity through the Dallaglio Foundation and GamesAid. Through the Dallaglio Foundation, a charitable foundation set up by the ex-England rugby player Lawrence Dallaglio, the major beneficiary of the BIAs proceeds would be Cancer Research UK, with money also going to Help for Heroes (for the UK Armed Forces), the Rugby Players' Association Benevolent Fund, Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research and DebRA (for Epidermolysis bullosa), while GamesAid, a UK charity, is a distributor of charitable funds from the video games industry to children's charities predominantly operating in the UK.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24414301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24414301", "title": "Campana reliefs", "text": "Campana reliefs\n\nCampana reliefs (also Campana tiles) are Ancient Roman terracotta reliefs made from the middle of the first century BC until the first half of the second century AD. They are named after the Italian collector Giampietro Campana, who first published these reliefs (1842).\n\nThe reliefs were used as friezes at the top of a wall below the roof, and in other exterior locations, such as ridge tiles and antefixes, but also as decoration of interiors, typically with a number of sections forming a horizontal frieze. They were produced in unknown quantities of copies from moulds and served as decoration for temples as well as public and private buildings, as cheaper imitations of carved stone friezes. They originated in the terracotta tiled roofs of the Etruscan temples. A wide variety of motifs from mythology and religion featured on the reliefs as well as images of everyday Roman life, landscapes and ornamental themes. Originally they were painted in colour, of which only traces of this occasionally remain. They were mainly produced in the region of Latium around the city of Rome, and their use was also largely limited to this area. Five distinct types were produced. Today examples are found in almost all major museums of Roman art worldwide.\n\nWith intensified excavation in the Mediterranean in the nineteenth century, terracotta reliefs increasingly came to light in and around Rome, from which original architectural contexts were determined. Metal and marble objects had previously been the most sought by excavators, scholars and collectors, but at this time artefacts in other materials received wider interest, beginning with the late-18th century appreciation of Greek vases which when they first appeared were thought to represent Etruscan pottery.\nThe first collector to make the tiles items of interest was marchese Giampietro Campana. His influence and contemporary reputation in archaeology was so great that he was named an honorary member of the Instituto di corrispondenza archeologica. He published his collection in 1842 in \"Antiche opere in plastica\" (\"Ancient works in plastic arts\"), in which his findings on the reliefs were first laid out in a scholarly fashion. Thus the tiles became known as \"Campana reliefs\". Afterwards Campana was sentenced to imprisonment for embezzlement: in 1858 he lost his honorary membership in the \"Istituto di corrispondenza archeologica\" and his collection was pawned and sold. The terracotta reliefs owned by him are now in the Louvre in Paris, the British Museum in London and the Hermitage in St Petersburg.\n\nOther collectors, such as August Kestner, also collected the reliefs and fragments of them in greater numbers. Today examples are found in most larger collections of Roman archaeological finds, though the majority of the reliefs are in Italian museums and collections.\nDespite Campana's research, for a long time the reliefs were rather neglected. They were viewed as handicrafts, thus inherently inferior, and not art, like marble sculptures. The idea that they should be treated as important sources for the craftwork of the period, for decorative fashions, and for their iconography only achieved prominence in the early years of the twentieth century. In 1911 Hermann von Rohden and Hermann Winnefeld published \"Architektonische Römische Tonreliefs der Kaiserzeit\" (\"Roman Architectural Clay Reliefs of the Imperial Period\") with a volume of images in Reinhard Kekulé von Stradonitz's series \"Die antiken Terrakotten\". This was the first attempt to organise and classify the reliefs according to the emerging principles of Art history. The two authors first distinguished the main types, discussed their use and considered their development, style, and iconography. The book remains fundamental. Thereafter, apart from the publication of new finds, interest flagged for more than fifty years. In 1968 Adolf Heinrich Borbein's thesis \"Campanareliefs. Typologische und Stilkritische Untersuchungen\" (\"Campana Reliefs: Typological and Stylistic Investigations\") brought these archaeological finds to wider attention. In his work, Borbein was able to establish the development of the Campana reliefs from their origins among Etruscan-Italiote terracotta tiles. He also dealt with the use of motifs and templates derived from other media and pointed out that the artisans thereby produced creative new works.\n\nSince Borbein's publication, researchers have mainly devoted themselves to chronological aspects or the preparation of catalogues of material from recent excavations and publications of old collections. In 1999 Marion Rauch produced an iconographic study \"Bacchische Themen und Nilbilder auf Campanareliefs\" (\"Bacchic Themes and Nile Images in Campana Reliefs\") and in 2006 Kristine Bøggild Johannsen described the usage contexts of the tiles in Roman villas on the basis of recent archaeological finds. She showed that the reliefs were among the most common decorations of Roman villas from the middle of the first century BC until the beginning of the second century AD, both in the country houses of the nobility and in the essentially agricultural \"villae rusticae\".\n\nThe quality of the ceramic product depended principally on the quality and processing of the clay. Particular importance attached to the tempering, when the clay (of uniform consistency) had various additives mixed in: sand, chopped straw, crushed brick, or even volcanic pozzolan. These additives minimised the contraction of the tile as it dried so that it retained its shape and did not develop cracks. These additives can be recognised as little red, brown, or black flecks, especially noticeable when crushed brick is used. Through the investigation of closed collections in the archaeological collection of Heidelberg University and the Museum August Kestner in Hannover gradations in the fineness of the structure were determined.\n\nThe tiles were not individually made as unique artworks but as series. From an original relief (the punch) a mould in the shape of a negative was produced. Then the moist clay was pressed into these moulds. Probably the image and the framing decoration were formed separately, since framing decoration is seen which has been applied to various designs. After they had dried, the tiles were removed from the mould and possibly lightly reworked. Then they were fired. After firing and cooling, the terracotta was painted, though sometimes the paint was applied before firing. Usually the reliefs received a coating, which acted as a surface for painting. This could be white paint or grey-yellow paint in Augustan times but it could also be stucco. \nAt present, no canonical, prescribed use of colours can be detected, except that at least from Augustan times the background was usually in light blue regardless of the scenes and motifs, but it could include two or more other colours as well. The colour of human skin was usually in something between dark red and hot pink. In Dionysiac scenes, skin could also be painted a reddy-brown. In Augustan times light yellow was not unusual for skin. At Hannover, violet-brown, reddy brown, purple, red, yellow, yellow-brown, turquoise-green, dark bown, pink, blue, black, and white can all be identified. Today the paint is lost in almost all cases and only residual traces can be recognised.\n\nNearly all Campana reliefs are from Central Italy, especially Latium. The largest and most important workshops seem to have been in Latium, especially in the neighbourhood of the city of Rome. Outside Latium the tiles are found mostly in Campania and in the former Etruscan sphere. At the end of the 1990s Marion Rauch compiled the reliefs with Dionysiac-Bacchic themes and was able to confirm this range for the motifs she was investigating. Nile scenes are found only in Latium. No pieces have been found in the Greek areas of southern Italy or in Sicily. An example from the Akademisches Kunstmuseum in Bonn, showing a Nike killing a bull was allegedly found in Agia Triada in Greece. Some stuccoed examples derive from the western part of the Roman empire, the ancient regions of Hispania and Gaul (modern Spain and France).\n\nThe earliest Campana reliefs were made in the middle of the first century BC, during the final period of the Roman Republic, and they were most common in the first quarter of the first century AD. At this time, the reliefs experienced not only their greatest extent but also their greatest variety of motifs. The final reliefs derive from about two hundred years later - production and use stopped in the time of Hadrian. While this general dating is largely viewed as secure, the exact date of the individual pieces can rarely be given. A relative chronology might be determined on the basis of comparison of motifs and styles. Iconographic research is unhelpful for this purpose because the motifs derive from a traditional repertoire, which was used largely without variation over a long period of time. Motifs from daily life are more helpful, however, since some of them depict datable building work such as the Capitoline Temple, which was built in AD 82 and is depicted on a relief from the Louvre Museum, providing a \"terminus ante quem\" for that tile.\nA better aid to dating is the quality of the clay. Over time their consistency became coarser, looser, more granular, and also lighter. The ornamental trimmings of the tiles are also useful: because they were the same for whole series of motifs, so one can reconstruct their relationships in the workshops and suggest contemporaneity. Very common motifs like the Ionian cymatium and palmettes are of only limited use, because these were used by a wide variety of workshops, even at the same time. Finally, sixe comparisons can also help with dating. Moulds were not only made from the original punch, but also often from tiles themselves. This leads to a natural \"shrinkage\" of the new tiles' dimensions. Because the moulds were sometimes reused for long periods of time, there are sometimes noticeable changes in the size of the tiles. For the motif depicting the Curetes performing a weapon dance around the baby Zeus, the moulds can be traced over a period of 170 years. In the process, the tiles lost about 40% of their size as a result of the repeated reuse of completed tiles as moulds. Therefore, in tiles which share a motif, the smaller can be identified as the younger. The motif also lost clarity through repeated remoulding.\n\nEven when it is known exactly where a relief tile was found, there is no absolute certainty because to this day no tiles have been found in the place of their original use. Scholars largely agree that the tiles served decorative and practical functions, although it is uncertain exactly which part of the building they were placed on. Their origin in Etruscan-Italiote temple architecture is clear and certain, but it can nevertheless be assumed that temples were not the primary usage context at least in the tiles' later phases. On account of their consistently modest scale, the reliefs were more suitable for close viewing, which implies use on smaller buildings. Whereas their Etruscan and Italiote precursors served to cover wooden temple roofs and protect them from weathering, the Campana reliefs seem to have been used far more in secular contexts. There they lost their protective functions and became wall decorations. For a time both forms of use were found side by side on temples, until finally the Campana reliefs lost their older use. On account of their fragility, the bricks must have been replaced often - it is suggested that this would have occurred once every twenty-five years or so. At first they were replaced with copies of the previous decorative tiles, but later newer motifs were substituted also. Increasingly from the first century stone temples replaced earlier buildings in wood, and Campana reliefs were only used in restorations.\n\nCampana reliefs can be arranged on five bases: chronology, geography, iconography, shape and use. The most productive system is classification based on the shape of the tile. The categories used are cladding tiles, ridge tiles, sima tiles, crowning tiles and antefixes.\n\nThese terracotta tiles had parallels in their development with the marble decorative reliefs of the \"neo-Attic form\" of the Late Republic and Early Empire, though their dissimilar shapes were not necessarily mutually dependent. Both had their own unique types and themes. In production and presentation, the marble reliefs were single works, while the Campana reliefs were made in series and once place in a united frieze did not operate as a single work.\n\nThe Campana reliefs show great diversity in their motifs. However, the images can be grouped into four large categories:\n\n\nThe Egyptian elements in many tiles are of particular interest, such as the cladding tiles held in the British Museum and in the Museum August Kestner in Hannover, which include crude imitations of Egyptian hieroglyphs - rarely encountered in Roman art. They are also of great interest for study of ancient buildings and art, such as the aforementioned Capitoline temple.\n\n"}
{"id": "29964683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29964683", "title": "Christ between Four Angels", "text": "Christ between Four Angels\n\nThe Christ between Four Angels and the Instruments of the Passion is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Vittore Carpaccio, executed in 1496 and now housed in the Civici musei e gallerie di storia e arte of Udine, northern Italy.\n\nThe work was painted for the church of St. Peter Martyr of Udine. It was acquired by the Austrians after the Napoleonic Wars, and assigned to the Hofmuseum in Vienna in 1838. It was given back to Italy in 1919.\n\nThe work is signed and dated \"VICTORIS CHARPATJO / VENETI OPVS / 1496\" on a cartouche attached to the basement. It is contemporary of Carpaccio's cycle of the Legend of Saint Ursula and shows some influences of Giovanni Bellini.\n\nIt depicts Christ standing on a double basement, keeping the Cross. Behind him is a damask cloth held by two angels and, at the sides, a landscape inspired to the Venetian hills; the castle on the right is similar to that of Udine. In the foreground are four angels with the Instruments of the Passion: from the left, the Holy Lance, the nails from the cross, the sticks of the Flagellation and the Holy Sponge. On the cross is the Crown of Thorns and the inscription \"INRI\". Blood rays spring up from Christ's wounds, ending in the Holy Chalice and turning themselves into the sacramental bread.\n\nThe sacrifice of Christ is also alluded to by the deer which is being slaughtered by a leopard on the lawn on the right.\n\n"}
{"id": "533442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533442", "title": "Courtauld Institute of Art", "text": "Courtauld Institute of Art\n\nThe Courtauld Institute of Art (), commonly referred to as The Courtauld, is a self-governing college of the University of London specialising in the study of the history of art and conservation. It is among the most prestigious institutions in the world for these disciplines and is widely known for the disproportionate number of directors of major museums drawn from its small body of alumni. \n\nThe art collection of the Institute is known particularly for its French Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings and is housed in the Courtauld Gallery. \n\nThe Institute and the Gallery are both in Somerset House, in the Strand in London.\n\nThe Institute was founded in 1932 through the philanthropic efforts of the industrialist and art collector Samuel Courtauld, the diplomat and collector Lord Lee of Fareham, and the art historian Sir Robert Witt. \n\nOriginally the Courtauld Institute was based in Home House, a Robert Adam-designed townhouse in London's Portman Square. The Strand block of Somerset House, designed by William Chambers from 1775–1780, has housed the Courtauld Institute since 1989. The Courtauld celebrated its 75th anniversary during the 2007–08 academic year.\n\nThe Courtauld Institute of Art is the major centre for the study of the history and conservation of art and architecture in the United Kingdom. It offers undergraduate and postgraduate teaching to around 400 students each year. Degrees are awarded by the University of London.\n\nThe Courtauld was ranked first in the United Kingdom for History and History of Art in \"The Guardian\" 's 2011 University Guide and was confirmed in this rank for research quality in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework. The Independent has called it \"probably the most prestigious specialist college for the study of the history of art in the world.\"\n\nThe Courtauld was ranked, again, first in the United Kingdom for History and History of Art in \"The Guardian\"’s 2017 University Guide.\n\nAccording to the 2014 Research Excellence Framework, the Courtauld hosts the highest proportion of the UK's world-leading and internationally excellent research out of all higher education institutions with 95% of research rated in the top two categories (4*/3*), 56% of which was rated in the 4* category, tied for highest in the UK with London Business School.\n\nThe only undergraduate course offered by the Courtauld is a BA in the History of Art. This is a full-time course designed to introduce students to all aspects of the study of western art.\n\nSeveral taught courses are offered at postgraduate level: master's degrees in history of art, curating the art museum, the history of Buddhist art, and the conservation of wall painting are taught alongside diploma courses in the conservation of easel paintings and the history of art. Students in the history of art master's programme have to choose a specialisation ranging from antiquity to early modern to global contemporary artwork. Special options are taught in small class sizes of 5–10 students, allowing an optimal discussion between faculty members and students.\n\nThe Courtauld has two photographic libraries which started as the private collections of two benefactors: the Conway Library, covering architecture, architectural drawings, sculpture and illuminated manuscripts, named after the Lord Conway of Allington and the Witt Library, after Sir Robert Witt, covering paintings, drawings and engravings and containing over two million reproductions of works by over 70,000 artists. In 2009, it was decided that the Witt Library would not continue to add new material to the collection. The book library is one of the UK's largest archives of art history books, periodicals and exhibition catalogues. There is a slide library which also covers films, and an IT suite.\n\nAn online image collection provides access to more than 40,000 images, including paintings and drawings from the Courtauld Gallery, and over 35,000 photographs of architecture and sculpture from the Conway Library. Two other websites and sell high resolution digital files to scholars, publishers and broadcasters, and photographic prints to a wide public audience.\n\nThe Courtauld uses a virtual learning environment to deliver course material to its students. Since 2004, the Courtauld has published an annual research journal, immediations, edited by current members of the research student body. Each cover of the journal has been commissioned by a leading contemporary artist.\n\nThe art collection of the Institute is housed in the Courtauld Gallery. The collection was begun by the founder of the Institute, Samuel Courtauld, who presented an extensive collection of mainly French Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings in 1932. It was enhanced by further gifts in the 1930s and a bequest in 1948, and has since received many significant donations and bequests. The Gallery contains some 530 paintings and over 26,000 drawings and prints.\n\nThe Courtauld Gallery is open to the public. Since 1989 it has been housed in the Strand block of Somerset House, which was the first home of the Royal Academy, founded in 1768. In April 2013 the Head of the Courtauld Gallery was Ernst Vegelin.\n\nThe Courtauld is especially well known for its many graduates who have become directors of art museums around the world. These include the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; the Museum of Modern Art, New York; the National Gallery, London; the National Portrait Gallery, London; the British Museum, London, and the Museo del Prado, Madrid. The number of notable alumni in the fine arts has earned graduates the \"Courtauld Mafia\" nickname. \n\nThe faculty of the Courtauld includes:\n\nThe Directors of the Courtauld Institute have been:\n"}
{"id": "8859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8859", "title": "Dandy", "text": "Dandy\n\nA dandy, historically, is a man who places particular importance upon physical appearance, refined language, and leisurely hobbies, pursued with the appearance of nonchalance in a cult of self. A dandy could be a self-made man who strove to imitate an aristocratic lifestyle despite coming from a middle-class background, especially in late 18th- and early 19th-century Britain.\n\nPrevious manifestations of the \"petit-maître\" (French for \"small master\") and the Muscadin have been noted by John C. Prevost, but the modern practice of dandyism first appeared in the revolutionary 1790s, both in London and in Paris. The dandy cultivated cynical reserve, yet to such extremes that novelist George Meredith, himself no dandy, once defined cynicism as \"intellectual dandyism\". Some took a more benign view; Thomas Carlyle wrote in \"Sartor Resartus\" that a dandy was no more than \"a clothes-wearing man\". Honoré de Balzac introduced the perfectly worldly and unmoved Henri de Marsay in \"La fille aux yeux d'or\" (1835), a part of \"La Comédie Humaine\", who fulfils at first the model of a perfect dandy, until an obsessive love-pursuit unravels him in passionate and murderous jealousy.\n\nCharles Baudelaire defined the dandy, in the later \"metaphysical\" phase of dandyism, as one who elevates æsthetics to a living religion, that the dandy's mere existence reproaches the responsible citizen of the middle class: \"Dandyism in certain respects comes close to spirituality and to stoicism\" and \"These beings have no other status, but that of cultivating the idea of beauty in their own persons, of satisfying their passions, of feeling and thinking ... Dandyism is a form of Romanticism. Contrary to what many thoughtless people seem to believe, dandyism is not even an excessive delight in clothes and material elegance. For the perfect dandy, these things are no more than the symbol of the aristocratic superiority of mind.\"\n\nThe linkage of clothing with political protest had become a particularly English characteristic during the 18th century. Given these connotations, dandyism can be seen as a political protest against the levelling of egalitarian principles, often including nostalgic adherence to feudal or pre-industrial values, such as the ideals of \"the perfect gentleman\" or \"the autonomous aristocrat\". Paradoxically, the dandy required an audience, as Susann Schmid observed in examining the \"successfully marketed lives\" of Oscar Wilde and Lord Byron, who exemplify the dandy's roles in the public sphere, both as writers and as \"personae\" providing sources of gossip and scandal. Nigel Rodgers in \"The Dandy: Peacock or Enigma?\" questions Wilde's status as a genuine dandy, seeing him as someone who only assumed a dandified stance in passing, not a man dedicated to the exacting ideals of dandyism.\n\nThe origin of the word is uncertain. \"Eccentricity\", defined as taking characteristics such as dress and appearance to extremes, began to be applied generally to human behavior in the 1770s; similarly, the word \"dandy\" first appears in the late 18th century: In the years immediately preceding the American Revolution, the first verse and chorus of \"Yankee Doodle\" derided the alleged poverty and rough manners of American-citizen colonists, suggesting that whereas a fine horse and gold-braided clothing (\"mac[c]aroni\") were required to set a dandy apart from those around him, the average American-citizen colonists means were so meager that ownership of a mere pony and a few feathers for personal ornamentation would qualify one of them as a \"dandy\" by comparison to and/or in the minds of his even less sophisticated Eurasian compatriots. A slightly later Scottish border ballad, circa 1780, also features the word, but probably without all the contextual aspects of its more recent meaning. The original, full form of 'dandy' may have been \"jack-a-dandy\". It was a vogue word during the Napoleonic Wars. In that contemporary slang, a \"dandy\" was differentiated from a \"fop\" in that the dandy's dress was more refined and sober than the fop's.\n\nIn the twenty-first century, the word \"dandy\" is a jocular, often sarcastic adjective meaning \"fine\" or \"great\"; when used in the form of a noun, it refers to a well-groomed and well-dressed man, but often to one who is also self-absorbed.\n\nThe model dandy in British society was George Bryan \"Beau\" Brummell (1778–1840), in his early days, an undergraduate student at Oriel College, Oxford and later, an associate of the Prince Regent. Brummell was not from an aristocratic background; indeed, his greatness was \"based on nothing at all,\" as J.A. Barbey d'Aurevilly observed in 1845. Never unpowdered or unperfumed, immaculately bathed and shaved, and dressed in a plain dark blue coat, he was always perfectly brushed, perfectly fitted, showing much perfectly starched linen, all freshly laundered, and composed with an elaborately knotted cravat. From the mid-1790s, Beau Brummell was the early incarnation of \"the celebrity\", a man chiefly famous for \"being\" famous.\n\nBy the time Pitt taxed hair powder in 1795 to help pay for the war against France and to discourage the use of flour (which had recently increased in both rarity and price, owing to bad harvests) in such a frivolous product, Brummell had already abandoned wearing a wig, and had his hair cut in the Roman fashion, \"à la Brutus\". Moreover, he led the transition from breeches to snugly tailored dark \"pantaloons,\" which directly led to contemporary trousers, the sartorial mainstay of men's clothes in the Western world for the past two centuries. In 1799, upon coming of age, Beau Brummell inherited from his father a fortune of thirty thousand pounds, which he spent mostly on costume, gambling, and high living. In 1816 he suffered bankruptcy, the dandy's stereotyped fate; he fled his creditors to France, quietly dying in 1840, in a lunatic asylum in Caen, just before age 62.\n\nMen of more notable accomplishments than Beau Brummell also adopted the dandiacal pose: George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron occasionally dressed the part, helping reintroduce the frilled, lace-cuffed and lace-collared \"poet shirt\". In that spirit, he had his portrait painted in Albanian costume.\n\nAnother prominent dandy of the period was Alfred Guillaume Gabriel d'Orsay, the Count d'Orsay, who had been friends with Byron and who moved in the highest social circles of London.\n\nIn 1836 Thomas Carlyle wrote: A Dandy is a clothes-wearing Man, a Man whose trade, office and existence consists in the wearing of Clothes. Every faculty of his soul, spirit, purse, and person is heroically consecrated to this one object, the wearing of Clothes wisely and well: so that the others dress to live, he lives to dress ... And now, for all this perennial Martyrdom, and Poesy, and even Prophecy, what is it that the Dandy asks in return? Solely, we may say, that you would recognise his existence; would admit him to be a living object; or even failing this, a visual object, or thing that will reflect rays of light...\n\nBy the mid-19th century, the English dandy, within the muted palette of male fashion, exhibited minute refinements—\"The quality of the fine woollen cloth, the slope of a pocket flap or coat revers, exactly the right colour for the gloves, the correct amount of shine on boots and shoes, and so on. It was an image of a well-dressed man who, while taking infinite pains about his appearance, affected indifference to it. This refined dandyism continued to be regarded as an essential strand of male Englishness.\"\n\nThe beginnings of dandyism in France were bound to the politics of the French revolution; the initial stage of dandyism, the gilded youth, was a political statement of dressing in an aristocratic style in order to distinguish its members from the sans-culottes.\n\nDuring his heyday, Beau Brummell's \"dictat\" on both fashion and etiquette reigned supreme. His habits of dress and fashion were much imitated, especially in France, where, in a curious development, they became the rage, especially in bohemian quarters. There, dandies sometimes were celebrated in revolutionary terms: self-created men of consciously designed personality, radically breaking with past traditions. With elaborate dress and idle, decadent styles of life, French bohemian dandies sought to convey contempt for and superiority to bourgeois society. In the latter 19th century, this fancy-dress bohemianism was a major influence on the Symbolist movement in French literature.\n\nBaudelaire was deeply interested in dandyism, and memorably wrote that a dandy aspirant must have \"no profession other than elegance... no other status, but that of cultivating the idea of beauty in their own persons... The dandy must aspire to be sublime without interruption; he must live and sleep before a mirror.\" Other French intellectuals also were interested in the dandies strolling the streets and boulevards of Paris. Jules Amédée Barbey d'Aurevilly wrote \"On Dandyism and George Brummell\", an essay devoted, in great measure, to examining the career of Beau Brummell.\n\nThe literary dandy is a familiar figure in the writings, and sometimes the self-presentation, of Oscar Wilde, H.H. Munro (Clovis and Reginald), P.G. Wodehouse (Bertie Wooster) and Ronald Firbank, writers linked by their subversive air.\n\nThe poets Algernon Charles Swinburne and Oscar Wilde, Walter Pater, the American artist James McNeill Whistler, the Spanish artist Salvador Dalí, Joris-Karl Huysmans, and Max Beerbohm were dandies of the Belle Époque, as was Robert de Montesquiou — Marcel Proust's inspiration for the Baron de Charlus. In Italy, Gabriele d'Annunzio and Carlo Bugatti exemplified the artistic bohemian dandyism of the fin de siecle. Wilde wrote that, \"One should either be a work of Art, or wear a work of Art.\"\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, American dandies were called dudes. Evander Berry Wall was nicknamed the \"King of the Dudes\".\n\nGeorge Walden, in the essay \"Who's a Dandy?\", identifies Noël Coward, Andy Warhol, and Quentin Crisp as modern dandies. The character Psmith in the novels of P. G. Wodehouse is considered a dandy, both physically and intellectually. Agatha Christie's Poirot is said to be a dandy.\n\nThe artist Sebastian Horsley described himself as a \"dandy in the underworld\" in his eponymous autobiography.\n\nIn Japan, dandyism became a fashion subculture during the late 1990s.\n\nIn Spain during the early 19th century a curious phenomenon developed linked to the idea of dandyism. While in England and France individuals from the middle classes adopted aristocratic manners, the Spanish aristocracy adopted the fashions of the lower classes, called majos. They were characterized by their elaborate outfits and sense of style as opposed to the modern Frenchified \"afrancesados\", as for their cheeky arrogant attitude.\nSome famous dandies in later times were amongst other the Duke of Osuna, Mariano Tellez-Girón, artist Salvador Dalí and poet Luís Cernuda.\n\nAlbert Camus said in \"L'Homme révolté\" (1951) that: The dandy creates his own unity by aesthetic means. But it is an aesthetic of negation. \"To live and die before a mirror\": that according to Baudelaire, was the dandy's slogan. It is indeed a coherent slogan. The dandy is, by occupation, always in opposition. He can only exist by defiance. Up to now, man derived his coherence from the Creator. But from the moment that he consecrates his rupture from Him, he finds himself delivered over to the fleeting moment, to the passing days, and to wasted sensibility. Therefore he must take himself in hand. The dandy rallies his forces and creates a unity for himself by the very violence of his refusal. Profligate, like all people without a rule of life, he is only coherent as an actor. But an actor implies a public; the dandy can only play a part by setting himself up in opposition. He can only be sure of his own existence by finding it in the expression of others' faces. Other people are his mirror. A mirror that quickly becomes clouded, it's true, since human capacity for attention is limited. It must be ceaselessly stimulated, spurred on by provocation. The dandy, therefore, is always compelled to astonish. Singularity is his vocation, excess his way to perfection. Perpetually incomplete, always on the fringe of things, he compels others to create him, while denying their values. He plays at life because he is unable to live it.\n\nJean Baudrillard said that dandyism is \"an aesthetic form of nihilism\".\n\nCarlos Espartaco said about the Argentinian philosopher and poet Eduardo Sanguinetti:\"Only the dandy, last heir of the stoic tentative, has imposed himself in the world of appearance as a thing and has evaded fashion in the name of a \"mode\" that would be inseparable of him. Actually, it is necessary to summon the void in itself, to conqueror the cool way that qualifies the dandy, which is \"thousand of kilometers farther from immediate sensations\". And for Eduardo Sanguinetti this means, in terms of the multiple strategics he will use in the passages from \"anti-fashion\" to \"look\" a radical self-emptying that emancipates from time, but that does not reject the effort that has to do to register the emerging novelty. Obtaining this space resembles a landscape, where, in accordance with Baudelaire \"carries Hercules upon his shoulders\".\nThe female counterpart is a quaintrelle, a woman who emphasizes a life of passion expressed through personal style, leisurely pastimes, charm, and cultivation of life's pleasures.\n\nIn the 12th century, \"cointerrels\" (male) and \"cointrelles\" (female) emerged, based upon \"coint\", a word applied to things skilfully made, later indicating a person of beautiful dress and refined speech. By the 18th century, \"coint\" became \"quaint\", indicating elegant speech and beauty. Middle English dictionaries note \"quaintrelle\" as a beautifully dressed woman (or overly dressed), but do not include the favorable personality elements of grace and charm. The notion of a quaintrelle sharing the major philosophical components of refinement with dandies is a modern development that returns quaintrelles to their historic roots.\n\nFemale dandies did overlap with male dandies for a brief period during the early 19th century when \"dandy\" had a derisive definition of \"fop\" or \"over-the-top fellow\"; the female equivalents were \"dandyess\" or \"dandizette\". Charles Dickens, in \"All the Year Around\" (1869) comments, \"The dandies and dandizettes of 1819–1820 must have been a strange race. \"Dandizette\" was a term applied to feminine devotees to dress and their absurdities were fully equal to those of the dandy.\" In 1819, the novel \"Charms of Dandyism\" was published \"by Olivia Moreland, chief of the female dandies\"; although probably written by Thomas Ashe, \"Olivia Moreland\" may have existed, as Ashe did write several novels about living persons. Throughout the novel, dandyism is associated with \"living in style\". Later, as the word \"dandy\" evolved to denote refinement, it became applied solely to men. \"Popular Culture and Performance in the Victorian City\" (2003) notes this evolution in the latter 19th century: \"...or \"dandizette\", although the term was increasingly reserved for men.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199780", "title": "Democracy in America", "text": "Democracy in America\n\nDe La Démocratie en Amérique (; published in two volumes, the first in 1835 and the second in 1840) is a classic French text by Alexis de Tocqueville. Its title translates as On Democracy in America, but English translations are usually simply entitled Democracy in America. In the book, Tocqueville examines the democratic revolution that he believed had been occurring over the previous several hundred years.\n\nIn 1831, Alexis de Tocqueville and Gustave de Beaumont were sent by the French government to study the American prison system. In his later letters Tocqueville indicates that he and Beaumont used their official business as a pretext to study American society instead. They arrived in New York City in May of that year and spent nine months traveling the United States, studying the prisons, and collecting information on American society, including its religious, political, and economic character. The two also briefly visited Canada, spending a few days in the summer of 1831 in what was then Lower Canada (modern-day Quebec) and Upper Canada (modern-day Ontario).\n\nAfter they returned to France in February 1832, Tocqueville and Beaumont submitted their report, \"Du système pénitentiaire aux États-Unis et de son application en France\", in 1833. When the first edition was published, Beaumont, sympathetic to social justice, was working on another book, \"Marie, ou, L'esclavage aux Etats-Unis\" (two volumes, 1835), a social critique and novel describing the separation of races in a moral society and the conditions of slaves in the United States. Before finishing \"Democracy in America\", Tocqueville believed that Beaumont's study of the United States would prove more comprehensive and penetrating.\n\nHe begins his book by describing the change in social conditions taking place. He observed that over the previous seven hundred years the social and economic conditions of men had become more equal. The aristocracy, Tocqueville believed, was gradually disappearing as the modern world experienced the beneficial effects of equality. Tocqueville traced the development of equality to a number of factors, such as granting all men permission to enter the clergy, widespread economic opportunity resulting from the growth of trade and commerce, the royal sale of titles of nobility as a monarchical fundraising tool, and the abolition of primogeniture.\n\nTocqueville described this revolution as a \"providential fact\" of an \"irresistible revolution,\" leading some to criticize the determinism found in the book. However, based on Tocqueville's correspondences with friends and colleagues, Marvin Zetterbaum, Professor Emeritus at University of California Davis, concludes that the Frenchman never accepted democracy as determined or inevitable. He did, however, consider equality more just and therefore found himself among its partisans.\n\nGiven the social state that was emerging, Tocqueville believed that a \"new political science\" would be needed, in order to:\n\n[I]nstruct democracy, if possible to reanimate its beliefs, to purify its motives, to regulate its movements, to substitute little by little the science of affairs for its inexperience, and knowledge of its true instincts for its blind instincts; to adapt its government to time and place; to modify it according to circumstances and men: such is the first duty imposed on those who direct society in our day.\n\nThe remainder of the book can be interpreted as an attempt to accomplish this goal, thereby giving advice to those people who would experience this change in social states.\n\nTocqueville begins his study of the U.S. by explaining the contribution of the Puritans. According to him, the Puritans established the U.S. democratic social state of equality. They arrived equals in education and were all middle class. In addition, Tocqueville observes that they contributed a synthesis of religion and political liberty in America that was uncommon in Europe, particularly in France. He calls the Puritan Founding the \"seed\" of his entire work.\n\nTocqueville believed that the Puritans established the principle of sovereignty of the people in the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut. The American Revolution then popularized this principle, followed by the Constitutional Convention of 1787, which developed institutions to manage popular will. While Tocqueville speaks highly of the U.S. Constitution, he believes that the mores, or \"habits of mind\" of the U.S. people play a more prominent role in the protection of freedom. These include:\n\n\nTocqueville was one of the first social critics to examine the situation of U.S. women and to identify the concept of Separate Spheres. The section \"Influence of Democracy on Manners Properly So Called\" of the second volume is devoted to his observations of women's status in U.S. society. He writes: \"In no country has such constant care been taken as in America to trace two clearly distinct lines of action for the two sexes and to make them keep pace one with the other, but in two pathways that are always different.\"\n\nHe argues that the collapse of aristocracy lessened the patriarchal rule in the family where fathers would control daughters' marriages, meaning that women had the option of remaining unmarried and retaining a higher degree of independence. Married women, by contrast, lost all independence \"in the bonds of matrimony\" as \"in America paternal discipline [by the woman's father] is very relaxed and the conjugal tie very strict\".\n\nBecause of his own view that a woman could not act on a level equal to a man, he saw a woman as needing her father's support to retain independence in marriage. Consistent with this limited view of the potential of women to act as equals to men, as well as his apparently missing on his travels seeing the nurturing roles that many men in the United States played, particularly in the Delaware Valley region of cultures where there was a lot of influence by Society of Friends as well as a tradition of male and female equality, Tocqueville considered the separate spheres of women and men a positive development, stating: \n\nAs for myself, I do not hesitate to avow that although the women of the United States are confined within the narrow circle of domestic life, and their situation is in some respects one of extreme dependence, I have nowhere seen women occupying a loftier position; and if I were asked, ... to what the singular prosperity and growing strength of that people ought mainly to be attributed, I should reply,—to the superiority of their women.\n\nThe primary focus of \"Democracy in America\" is an analysis of why republican representative democracy has succeeded in the United States while failing in so many other places. Tocqueville seeks to apply the functional aspects of democracy in the United States to what he sees as the failings of democracy in his native France.\n\nTocqueville speculates on the future of democracy in the United States, discussing possible threats \"to\" democracy and possible dangers \"of\" democracy. These include his belief that democracy has a tendency to degenerate into \"soft despotism\" as well as the risk of developing a tyranny of the majority. He observes that the strong role religion played in the United States was due to its separation from the government, a separation all parties found agreeable. He contrasts this to France where there was what he perceived to be an unhealthy antagonism between democrats and the religious, which he relates to the connection between church and state. \nTocqueville also outlines the possible excesses of passion for equality among men, foreshadowing the totalitarian states of the twentieth century.\n\nInsightful analysis of political society was supplemented in the second volume by description of civil society as a sphere of private and civilian affairs mirroring Hegel.\n\nTocqueville observed that social mechanisms have paradoxes, as in what later became known as the Tocqueville effect: \"social frustration increases as social conditions improve\". He wrote that this growing hatred of social privilege, as social conditions improve, leads to the state concentrating more power to itself.\n\nTocqueville's views on the United States took a darker turn after 1840, however, as made evident in Aurelian Craiutu's \"Tocqueville on America after 1840: Letters and Other Writings\".\n\n\"Democracy in America\" was published in two volumes, the first in 1835 and the other in 1840. It was immediately popular in both Europe and the United States, while also having a profound impact on the French population. By the twentieth century, it had become a classic work of political science, social science, and history. It is a commonly assigned reading for undergraduates of American universities majoring in the political or social sciences, and part of the introductory political theory syllabus at Cambridge, Oxford, Princeton and other institutions. In the introduction to his translation of the book, Harvard Professor Harvey C. Mansfield calls it \"at once the best book ever written on democracy and the best book ever written on America.\"\n\nTocqueville's work is often acclaimed for making a number of astute predictions. He anticipates the potential acrimony over the abolition of slavery that would tear apart the United States and lead to the American Civil War as well as the eventual superpower rivalry between the United States and Russia, which exploded after World War II and spawned the Cold War.\n\nNoting the rise of the industrial sector in the American economy, Tocqueville, some scholars have argued, also correctly predicted that an industrial aristocracy would rise from the ownership of labor. He warned that ' ... friends of democracy must keep an anxious eye peeled in this direction at all times', observing that the route of industry was the gate by which a newfound wealthy class might potentially dominate, although he himself believed that an industrial aristocracy would differ from the formal aristocracy of the past.\n\nOn the other hand, Tocqueville proved shortsighted in noting that a democracy's equality of conditions stifles literary development. In spending several chapters lamenting the state of the arts in America, he fails to envision the literary Renaissance that would shortly arrive in the form of such major writers as Edgar Allan Poe, Henry David Thoreau, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Herman Melville, Nathaniel Hawthorne and Walt Whitman. Equally, in dismissing the country's interest in science as limited to pedestrian applications for streamlining the production of material goods, he failed to imagine America's burgeoning appetite for pure scientific research and discovery.\n\nAccording to Tocqueville, democracy had some unfavorable consequences: the tyranny of the majority over thought, a preoccupation with material goods, and isolated individuals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57100408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57100408", "title": "Ghisi Shield", "text": "Ghisi Shield\n\nThe Ghisi Shield is a piece of Renaissance parade armour made by the Italian goldsmith and engraver Giorgio Ghisi, signed and dated 1554. It is part of the Waddesdon Bequest, held by the British Museum in London since 1898.\n\nThe shield is made from a single plate of hammered steel, with its rim turned over a wire. The decoration on the outer face is damascened in gold and partially plated with silver. It is in diameter, deep, and weighs . An inscription on the front of the shield reads, \"GEORGIVS DE GHISYS MNTVANZ FA M.D.LIIII\". \n\nGhisi was an artisan from Mantua, but he was in the Netherlands from about 1550 to about 1555, and the shield was probably made in Antwerp, then under the rule of the Habsburgs. It is one of only two surviving pieces of damascened metalwork known to have been made by Ghisi. (The other item is a damaged sword hilt, dated 1570, and now in the Hungarian National Museum in Budapest.)\n\nThe intricately decorated shield, damascened with gold and silver, was intended for display, not for use in battle. It is embossed with repoussé and chased work in high relief, with a framed central circular scene of battling horseman, surrounded by four strapwork cartouches containing allegorical female figures (Victory, Fame, Fortitude, Prudence). The frames around the five main scenes themselves incorporate detailed images on a much smaller scale, taken from the \"Iliad\" and ancient mythology, inlaid in gold. Further imagery of birds, foliage, putti, satyrs and other figures, fills the field between the frames.\n\nThe shield may have been designed by a Netherlandish artist, not Ghisi himself: other shields made in the Netherlands in the late 16th century have survived with similar decoration, but none of them demonstrate the accomplished decorative skills of Ghisi. For example, an iron shield held by the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna has similar strapwork and embossed imagery with scenes of Jason and the Golden Fleece; and a similar gilded shield or rondache at the Hermitage in St Petersburg has four allegorical figures (Prudence, Fortitude, Fame, Envy) arranged in circular cartouches around a circular image of Mars. \n\nThe Ghisi Shield was sold for £1,000 at the Allègre sale in Paris in 1863, and then sold in the sale of the Demidov Collection in Paris in 1870, shortly before the death of Anatoly Nikolaievich Demidov, 1st Prince of San Donato, for 1,600,000 francs (about £6,400). It was bought at the Demidov sale by Baron Anselm von Rothschild, and later inherited by his son Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild, who left it to the British Museum after his death in 1898 as part of the Waddesdon Bequest.\n\n"}
{"id": "52324241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52324241", "title": "Girls (2016 film)", "text": "Girls (2016 film)\n\nGirls in Malayalam and \"Thiraikku Varadha Kathai\" (English: Story never came on screen) in Tamil, is a bilingual horror thriller film directed by Thulasidas. The film features Nadhiya in the leading role and Eden, Subiksha and Iniya in the supporting roles. The film released to mixed reviews in October 2016.\n\n\nIn December 2014, director Thulasidas announced that he would make a bilingual Malayalam and Tamil horror thriller titled \"Girls\" featuring actress Iniya in the lead role. Initially titled \"Ini Varum Naatkal\" in Tamil, seven more actresses, Anusree, Aparna Nair, Archana, Muktha Bhanu, Subiksha and Seetha Lekshmi were signed in January 2015 to play other roles, with the shoot beginning thereafter in Wagomon. As the film progressed, some actresses dropped out and were replaced by actresses including Reshma, Sabitha, Sajitha Madathil and Neena Kurup, while Nadhiya also joined in late 2015 to play a significant character.\n\nThe Times of India gave the Tamil version of the film a negative review, citing \"the pre-release buzz around \"Thiraikku Varaadha Kadhai\" has mostly centred around a lesbian angle in the film, but that proves to be counter-productive\", adding that \"the film is also irresponsible in a way because it furthers the negative stereotyping of LGBTs as persons with low moral values and murderers\". Similarly, The New Indian Express stated \"it was a knot that had the potential to turn into a riveting thriller, but it’s opportunity lost here\". Likewise, the Malayalam version garnered similar reviews, with a reviewer noting \"Thulasidas is a veteran who has directed around 25 films as well as some long running popular serials. So he is not short on experience but his latest bi-lingual offering, \"Girls\", seems an amateurish attempt by someone in the initial days of his directing career\".\n"}
{"id": "9472976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9472976", "title": "Hymn tune", "text": "Hymn tune\n\nA hymn tune is the melody of a musical composition to which a hymn text is sung. Musically speaking, a hymn is generally understood to have four-part (or more) harmony, a fast harmonic rhythm (chords change frequently), and no refrain or chorus.\n\nFrom the late sixteenth century in England and Scotland, when most people were not musically literate and learned melodies by rote, it was a common practice to sing a new text to a hymn tune the singers already knew which had a suitable meter and character.\n\nThere are many hymn tunes which might fit a particular hymn: a hymn in Long Metre might be sung to any hymn tune in Long Metre, but the tunes might be as different as those tunes that have been used for centuries with hymns such as \"Te lucis ante terminum\", on one hand, and an arrangement of the calypso tune used with \"Jamaica Farewell\", on the other.\n\nEditors bring extensive knowledge of theology, poetry, and music to the process of compiling a new hymnal. They seek texts that are capable of communicating complex theological concepts to lay people, and they strive to partner those texts to tunes which are singable by the non-professional musicians of a congregation. \"Ideally, a hymn is set out in clear, unambiguous language. Although it deals with profound thoughts, a hymn states them so simply and directly that 'he who runs may read' and understand. Simplicity, which is the servant of clarity, is the first characteristic of hymnic expression.\"\n\nWhen editors choose a text for the planned collection, it may already be paired to a tune that supports its meaning, catches its spirit, and allows for congregational participation. This pairing may be used elsewhere, even ecumenically recognized, appearing in many other hymnals. However, if a hymn has been linked to a tune the editors think is not the best partner for it, they can arrange a new pairing. Partnerships of texts and tunes can give special attention to the interpretive opportunities in a text by providing artistic support of the message through its musical setting. Editors must consider whether the important words in the text fall on stressed notes, whether climax points in the ideas correspond with musical climaxes, and whether the tempo for the music matches the style of the text.\n\nOften the author of a text has not composed a setting of that text or otherwise paired the text to a particular tune. It then becomes the editor's challenge to complement that text with a tune for publication. Where the meter of a text is regular, editors can choose an existing tune of the meter that fits the text. Often there is more than just one good possible partner available. The editors may marry a text \"X\" to a tune they feel is best, with which it appears on the hymnal page, and they may also suggest singing text \"X\" to an alternative tune that appears elsewhere in the hymnal (sometimes with a different text). If one refers to the hymnal's metrical index, more possible tunes may be found, of the same meter, which might be used for singing text \"X\".\n\nIn \"The Anatomy of Hymnody\", Austin C. Lovelace explores the relevance of the meter to a text.\nA meter of few syllables, perhaps with a trochaic stress pattern, fits best an exhortive or forceful declamation of ideas. A stirring, motivating text will fit this meter well. Using a more lyrical meter suggests a more expansive or introspective treatment of ideas. An author may have superb ideas but may have chosen a meter which exhorts when it should be expansive, or is solid when it should be introspective. In such cases the editor is challenged to achieve an overall fit which doesn't distract from the message of the text.\n\nEditorial skills are evident in the complex credits of some hymns. For the well-loved and great hymn, \"All Creatures of Our God and King\", the words were written by William H. Draper and first published in 1919, based on a 13th-century text by Francis of Assisi, with further adaptations made in 1987. It is wedded to the tune \"Lasst uns erfreuen\", first printed in the \"Geistliches Kirchengesangbuch\", dated 1623, and is presented with a harmonization by Ralph Vaughan Williams, dated 1906.\n\nSome texts become associated with several tunes. For different reasons, some tunes set numerous texts. Tunes which are very singable and easy for a congregation to pick up, and do not have musical demands which would interfere with understanding and assimilating the ideas of a text, can be used to set two or three texts in a hymnal, when the editors see that as advantageous. \"Wareham\" LM, melody William Knapp (1698–1768), alt., harm. \"Hymns Ancient and Modern\", 1875, after James Turle (1802–1882), sets three texts in \"Hymnal 1982\". It has supported more than 20 texts in various hymnals.\n\nThe practice of naming hymn tunes developed to help identify a particular tune. The name was chosen by the compiler of the tune book or hymnal or by the composer. The majority of names have a connection with the composer and many are place names. Most hymnals provide a hymn tune index by name (alphabetical) and a hymn tune index by meter.\n\nIn some instances a particular text and tune have an almost exclusive partnership with each other, such as Reginald Heber's text \"Holy, Holy, Holy!\" and John Bacchus Dykes's tune \"Nicaea\". In other instances a text may be used with a variety of tunes, such as \"O for a Thousand Tongues to Sing\" sung to any of \"Lyngham\", \"Oxford New\", \"Arden\", \"Lydia\", \"Richmond\", \"Azmon\", or \"University\". In yet other instances a tune may partner several texts, such as \"Dix\" for \"As with Gladness Men of Old\", \"Christ, Whose Glory Fills the Skies\", \"God of Mercy, God of Grace\", \"Lord, to You Immortal Praise\", and \"For the Beauty of the Earth\".\n\nBy contrast, in Germany and Scandinavia, tune names were not typically used even when a hymn tune was used for more than one text. The custom in such cases was to use part of the first line of the first text with which the tune was associated as a name for the tune: for example \"Lasst Uns Erfreuen\" (\"Let us rejoice\" / All Creatures of Our God and King), \"Gelobt Sei Gott\" (\"[May] God be praised\" / Good Christian men, rejoice and sing) and \"Was lebet, was schwebet\" (O Worship the Lord in the Beauty of Holiness). Renaming of tunes occurs from time to time, when a tune is chosen to be printed in a hymnal. When chorales were introduced in England during the eighteenth century, these tunes were sometimes given English-style tune names.\n\nThe Ravenscroft Psalter of 1621 was the first English book which specified, by name, which tune should set each text. This followed the procedure used for the first time in the 1616 Scottish Psalter. In this early time of defining text/tune marriages, editors of different psalters were apt to use different names for the same tune. For example, \"The French Tune\", in the Scottish Psalter (1564), was the same tune as \"Dundee\" in the Ravenscroft Psalter.\nCommon practice nowadays is for the composer of a tune to name it.\n\nTypically, worship services in churches and synagogues include hymns which are sung by the congregation, accompanied by organ, or piano, and/or sometimes by guitars or other instruments. Details of performance vary depending on the designated style of the service, or by the hymns themselves. Some hymns specify unison singing, and other hymns are sung in parts (usually soprano, alto, tenor, bass). It is common practice for a congregation to sing all the hymns in unison, but in some traditions part singing is encouraged.\n\nSometimes, especially on longer texts, variety in the performance is introduced. Varied performance practices may include:\n\n\nOther possibilities for varied performance can be invited through explanation either in the service bulletin or through verbal instruction by the pastor or the minister of music. Combining some or all of these and can add interest to singing while enhancing the sense of the text. For example:\n\n\nSome hymn tunes lend themselves to being sung in canon.\n\nThe Book of Psalms has sometimes been called the first hymn book. Some psalms are headed with instructions relating to their musical performance, music to which they were \"married,\" even though no music is included with the texts. Psalters contained metrical versifications of the psalms. Using a regular meter, authors would translate the psalms into the vernacular, and create versions which could be set to music for the people to sing.\n\nSt. Paul encourages Christians to \"Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord\" (), \"[s]peaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord.\" (). In 313 AD, the Emperor Constantine issued the Edict of Milan, which \"... gave the Christians the right to practice religion openly.\"\nAt that time the language of the people was Latin. Use of Latin continued in the Roman Catholic Church long after it ceased to be the vernacular. By the time of Martin Luther in the early 16th century, the singing was still in Latin but was done by choirs of priests and monks, although the choirs sometimes included a few lay musicians as well.\n\nHymnals evolved from psalters, in that hymns are songs for the congregation and choir to sing, but go beyond metrical recasting of only psalm texts. In early hymnals, only texts were printed. By the mid 18th century, hymnal editors began marrying particular tunes, by name, to individual texts. A century later, in the 1861 (first) edition of the English \"Hymns Ancient and Modern\", for the first time, the music was printed with its text on the hymnal page. Many marriages from that book became and remain ecumenically endorsed, including those where a tune was composed and appeared in print for the first time in that 1861 edition. Heber's text, \"Holy, Holy, Holy\" had first appeared in \"Selection of Psalms and Hymns for the Parish Church of Banbury\", 3rd edition, 1826. \"Nicaea\" (1861) was written by J. B. Dykes to set it \"for the first edition of \"Hymns A & M\".\"\n\nAs part of his efforts at reform, after Martin Luther prepared a version of the Mass in Latin, he prepared a version in German, adapting parts of the liturgical texts of the Mass as chorales in the vernacular which could be sung and understood by the congregation. Luther arranged the music for some of these by adapting the music of existing plainsong melodies; he set other texts to newly composed tunes composed by others, or by himself. An example of the latter is the tune he composed for his German paraphrase of Psalm 46, \"Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott\" (\"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God\"). Nicholas Temperley wrote in \"The Hymn Tune Index\" that Luther \"wished his congregations to take part in the singing, but\nin general they failed to do so\" and \"It was the Calvinist, or 'Reformed', branches of Protestantism\nthat succeeded in establishing congregation hymn singing in worship.\"\nLuther (1483–1546) posted his theses against Roman Church practices, particularly \"indulgences\", in 1517, which signalled the start of the Reformation, \"...but six or seven years passed after the inception of his Reformation before he gave his thought to hymns... Luther wished to refine the worship of the Church by excluding what he thought were needless complications while retaining, through the use of music, the essential spirit of Christian devotion as enshrined in the church's tradition... The year 1524 saw the first official Luther hymnals.\"\nLuther wanted the congregation to participate in singing, with German texts sung to tunes straightforward enough for ordinary people to sing. \"Luther himself wrote many new religious texts to be used with well-known German folk songs. \"Vom Himmel hoch\" is one of these.\"\n\nLuther was a gifted and well-trained musician. He composed and found hymn tunes which were accessible for ordinary people to sing, and \"... at the same time he encouraged church choirs to continue the tradition of polyphonic motets within the Lutheran Mass. He used various textures and styles of music in ways which were most appropriate and effective for each.\"\nLuther also adapted the music of existing plainsong melodies as hymn tunes. Families enjoyed singing hymns in parts in their homes, for the family's enjoyment and edification, but unison singing was the custom in church.\n\nThe Reformed Church and the (French) Genevan Psalter were the result of work by John Calvin (1509–1564). His profound reverence for the biblical text \"...caused him to insist that public praise in church should be confined to the language of the Bible, adapted to the minimum extent required for congregational singing. He was \"... the architect of the tradition of metrical psalmody.\"\nCalvin heard Lutheran hymn singing while he served Minister of the Reformed Church of Strasbourg (1538–41). In fact, Routley says, \"[M]etrical psalmody was really born [in Strasbourg] rather than in Geneva.\"\nClement Marot (c. 1497–1544) was a French Court poet in Strassbourg, who had begun setting psalms in metrical versions before Calvin met him. Although Marot remained a Catholic, Calvin included Marot's psalm versions in the Psalter. The first Genevan Psalter, 1542, contained six psalms by Calvin and 30 by Marot.\nThe Genevan Psalter of 1562 contained all 150 psalms, and included the works of Calvin's successor, Theodore de Beza (1509–1565).\n\nCalvin did not approve of free religious texts (hymns) for use in church; the Bible was the only source of texts he approved (exclusive psalmody). Calvin endorsed only singing of metrical psalm texts, only in unison, only \"a cappella\", with no harmonization and no accompanying instruments of any kind. Tunes for the metrical psalm versions came from several men, including Louis Bourgeois (c. 1501 – c. 1561), and Claude Goudemil (c. 1525–1572). There were 110 different meters used for the texts in Calvin's Psalter, and 125 different tunes to set them. The music was very difficult; the long tunes were hard for ordinary people to grasp.\nBut later adaptations (and simplifications) of these tunes have added to current day hymn tunes repertoire.\n\nThe earliest English psalters included a few tunes in regular meters, which could be used to sing all the psalms in the psalter. Which tune was sung was determined by the fit of the meter. The \"Ravenscroft Psalter\" of 1621 was the first English book which \"married,\" specified by name, which tune should set each text.\nIn that early time of defining text/tune marriages, editors of different psalters sometimes used different names for the same tune. For example, \"The French Tune\", in the \"Scottish Psalter\" (1564), is the same tune as \"Dundee\" in the \"Ravenscroft Psalter\".\n\nRoutley states that metrical psalmody was actually the first English Protestant hymnody. England's Reformation began when King Henry VIII separated the English church from the Catholic Church in Rome in 1532. King Henry's heir was King Edward VI, who ascended to the throne in 1547. Thomas Sternhold (d. 1549), Groom of the Royal Wardrobe at the end of Henry VIII's reign and during Edward VI's, \"...began metricizing psalms for the edification of the young new king (ten years old when he came to the throne in 1547: sixteen when he died in 1553).\" Sternhold's work paralleled Marot's efforts in the French Court; Sternhold's \"...strong puritan strain moved him to replace with sacred songs the trivial secular music that was the Court's normal entertainment; this led him to versify certain Psalms in the ballad metre that would enable them to be sung to tunes already known.\" (\"Forest Green\", \"Kingsfold\", etc.). The ballad meter, \"which Sternhold used very nearly without variation,\" had 4 iambic lines of 14 syllables, which breaks down to 8686 8686 (our Double Common Meter DCM or CMD). Also, a simpler \"half length\" tune evolved, now described as common meter (CM = 8686). The English aimed at a Psalter of all 150 psalms, virtually all in ballad meter. Sternhold started the task, writing a total of 37 by the time he died, when John Hopkins took over the work. ... In the year of [Sternhold's] death, a little book without music containing 44 psalms was published, of which 36 were by Sternhold and eight by his collaborator John Hopkins (d. 1570).\n\nProgress on the Psalter was interrupted when King Edward died in 1553, and his elder half sister Mary (\"Bloody Mary\") became queen. She tried to reinstate Catholicism as the State religion. Churchmen whose lives were threatened fled to the Continent, some ending up in Geneva, where they encountered the 1551 Genevan Psalter and the congregational singing which it supported. When Elizabeth I ascended the throne after her sister's death in 1558, the exiled churchmen returned to England, bringing them an Anglo-Genevan Psalter containing all the psalms plus a few tunes to set them,\nalong with their desire to add congregational singing to church services. At that point work continued with the Sternhold and Hopkins Psalter, adding psalms to it from the Anglo-Genevan Psalter. The Complete Psalter was published in 1562 by John Daye. \"It is at this point important to remember that all these versions of the Psalter, up to and including 1562, were published for private use. There was not, by 1562, strictly a 'Church of England' that could authorize the use of it in church.\" \nThe question of \"authorization\" of the Sternhold and Hopkins Psalter for use in church services is discussed at length in John Julian's \"Dictionary of Hymnology\"; actually, the psalter was used in church whether it was ever officially authorized or not.\n\"Few books have had so long a career of influence. With the growing Puritanism psalm-singing came to be esteemed the most divine part of God's public service.\" \n\nBooks did not print the music with hymns in hymnals, until the middle 19th century. Tunes were printed separately in tune books. Some of those printed in America in the 19th century (for example, Lowell Mason's, or George Root's) use four staff systems. The tune name, but no composer credit, appears above each tune. The melody of the tune appears in the tenor (fauxbourdon), often with the first stanza words, printed above the tenor staff.\n\nDuring the decade 1791–1800, more than 8,000 hymn tunes were printed in Great Britain and between 7,000 and 8,000 were printed in the United States; during the decade 1801–1810, about 11,000 hymn tunes were printed in Great Britain, while more than 15,000 were printed in the United States. The total number of hymn tunes published with English-language texts in publications from 1535 up to and including 1820 is recorded as 159,123.\n\nMany early hymnals were published in editions which contained only texts. The early Methodist movement provides an example. The co-founders, John Wesley and his brother Charles Wesley, published several text-only collections, culminating in \"A Collection of Hymns, for the Use of the People Called Methodists\", in 1780. John Wesley published tune books separately, culminating in \"Sacred Harmony\", in 1780. In 1786, with the fifth edition of the text-only \"Collection,\" Wesley indicated at the head of each hymn the tune to which he intended it to be sung. Among the tunes in \"Sacred Harmony\" that are still in use are \"Derby\", \"Helmsley\", and \"Savannah\". Accompanists to hymn singing had a tune book, a volume which a collection of tunes, most without words, the exception being the occasional lyric when underlay of words to the music was ambiguous. An example of this was \"The Bristol Tune Book\". As more people became musically literate, it became more common to print the melody, or both melody and harmony in hymnals. Contemporary practice in the U.S. and Canada is to print hymn tunes so that lyrics underlie the music; the more common practice in the UK is to print the hymn tunes on one page, and the hymn text either below, or on facing pages.\n\nAmong twentieth-century developments was the publishing of \"The English Hymnal\" in 1906 under the music editorship of Ralph Vaughan Williams. More recently, ethnic hymns and tunes have been included, descants have been added for some hymns, freer song-like styles have been accepted, and accompaniments by guitar and/or other instruments have been notated.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32645354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32645354", "title": "IKOB International Art Centre East Belgium", "text": "IKOB International Art Centre East Belgium\n\nThe ikob - Museum of Contemporary Art, founded in 1993 by Francis Feidler (director of the ikob until December 2012), is a museum of contemporary art in the German-speaking city of Eupen in Belgium, nearby the German and Dutch borders.Its program focuses on emerging and leading contemporary art through the constitution of a significant collection – in progress – and temporary exhibitions – in Dialog. Thus, functioning as a discursive platform for contemporary art with a multidisciplinary and thematic exhibition program, concerned with critical and socio-political issues, the ikob attempts to reflect the matter of frontier.\n\nSince January 2013, the ikob - Museum of Contemporary Art is directed by Dr. Maïté Vissault. \n\nThe IKOB's sculpture exhibitions \"Concept 93\" (1993) and especially \"Full Barns\" (1997) gained international attention because, the former Documenta organizer Manfred Schneckenburger committed known European artists, such as Tony Cragg, Wolfgang Nestler, Maik and Dirk Löbbert or Marie Jo Lafontaine .\n\nSince 2000, the IKOB organizes an international programme of exhibitions in new galleries and adding to its own collection.\n\nThe IKOB Art Award is awarded every three years to young artists since 2005. The jury, chaired by Jan Hoet, selected the German artist Stefanie Klingemann as the first winner. The award is endowed with 5,000 €.\n\nThe following artists were nominated for the IKOB Art Award 2011: Tatjana Gerhard, Brigitte Reisz, Vera Hilger, Judith Krebbekx, Kati Heck. An international jury selected Kati Heck as the winner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43147105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43147105", "title": "Ideal town", "text": "Ideal town\n\nIdeal town was a Renaissance concept developed by Italian polymath Leon Battista Alberti (14041472), author of ten books of treatises on modern architecture titled \"De Re Aedificatoria\" written about 1450 with additions made until the time of his death in 1472. Alberti's architectural theories concerned the planning and building of an entire town as opposed to individual edifices for private patrons or ecclesiastical purposes. \n\nAlberti insisted on choosing the location of the town first, followed by careful setting up of the size and direction of streets, then location of bridges and gates, and finally a building pattern ruled by perfect symmetry. One of the more prominent examples of a town modelled on this theory was Zamość founded in the 16th century by the chancellor Jan Zamoyski. At present, it is a World Heritage Site in Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "44140942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44140942", "title": "Johann Lucas Kracker", "text": "Johann Lucas Kracker\n\nJohann Lucas Kracker, also Jan Lukáš Kracker or János Lukács Kracker (3 March 1717, Vienna - 1 December 1779, Eger) was an Austrian-Czech painter of the late Baroque period. His work consisted mostly of ceiling or wall frescoes and altarpieces.\n\nHis family originally came from Bohemia and his father, Josef Kracker (1683–1733), was a sculptor. He received his first training with Anton Hertzog (1692–1740) and continued at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna after 1738, where his teachers included Paul Troger and Michelangelo Unterberger. His first frescoes, created for the Schlosskirche St. Martin (Graz) in 1742, have not survived.\n\nInitially, he was employed at a workshop in Brno, later becoming independent and working throughout Moravia, briefly settling in Znojmo, where he got married. He then moved on to Upper Hungary in 1754, where he worked in Šaštín and Prešov (both now in Slovakia). From 1760 to 1761, he was in Prague where, despite objections from the Prague Painters' Guild, he executed frescoes at the Church of St. Nikolaus in Malá Strana. From 1762 to 1764, he painted at the Monastery and the Premonstratensian Church in Jasov.\n\nIn 1767, he settled in Eger. Bishop commissioned him to do work for the Diocese of Eger and at the Bishop's properties. Three years later, he created the altarpiece for the \"Minoritenkirche\" (Franciscan Church) and in 1777 he produced his masterpiece depicting the Council of Trent at the Líceum. He remained in the Bishop's service for the rest of his life, although he occasionally travelled to execute small commissions elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "55000119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55000119", "title": "Kat Meoz", "text": "Kat Meoz\n\nKatherine \"Kat\" Alexandra Meoz (born July 27, 1988) is a Venezuelan-American singer-songwriter, composer, soundtrack and record producer. As producer of the soundtrack The Dust Storm (2015 film), she renewed interest in indie-rock music. Three of Meoz's original songs in the film were performed by actor Colin O'Donoghue, Once Upon a Time (TV series).\n\nAs a vocalist and multi-instrumentalist, Meoz is best known as the founder and principal songwriter for the self-titled garage rock blues project, Kat Meoz(f.k.a. GRIT). Her debut EP \"LA Don't Love You\" was released by indie label Bodan Kuma Recordings (The Subways, EFG, Detroit Rebellion) in June 2017. The first official music video released was shot and directed by Troma Entertainment director Kansas Bowling in August 2017 for song \"LA Don't Love You\". The video and song which stars Lloyd Kaufman caught the attention of legendary radio DJ Rodney Bingenheimer who put the song in regular rotation on Sirius XM Holdings (Little Steven's Underground Garage). Meoz has received recognition from publications such as Nasty Gal, Impose (magazine), Buzzbands LA, Grimy Goods and is both a Blackstar Amplification and D'Angelico Guitars artist and was signed to Defend Music in late Spring 2018 for publishing.\n\nThe first ever televised composition from Meoz was the theme song for show Knock First which ran on Abc family for 6 episodes in its second season from 2003-2004. In 2016 and 2017 Meoz had three songs placed on reality television series the Bad Girls Club: \"Cold Blooded\"\", Fool's Gold\"\",\" and \"LA Don't Love You\"\".\"\n\nIn October 2017, filmmaker Kansas Bowling and Meoz shot the only existing footage of Richard Brautigan's papier-mâché bird and subject of his book Willard and His Bowling Trophies, Willard, for a music video for Meoz's song \"Here I Wait\". The song was released January 2018 on Bodan Kuma Records and premiered on Pop Matters.\n\nIn November 2017 Meoz was included on Rodney Bingenheimer's Christmas Compilation, \"Santa's Got a GTO Vol.2.\" For which Meoz composed original Christmas song, \"Christmas in Hollywood\". The compilation, released on limited edition vinyl through Gearhead Records includes artists such as C. J. Ramone and Clem Burke.\n\nMeoz was asked by Jennie Vee to join her solo project: \"Jennie Vee & The Garden of Eden\" as a rhythm guitar player in early fall 2017, the act toured with Swedish band INVSN in California. In late December 2017 Meoz was asked to sing background vocals for Iggy Azalea and Quavo on the recording of their 2018 single release, \"Savior\". Meoz performed for their track at Westlake Recording Studios in Los Angeles. The song and Meoz's voice went on to be featured in a Super Bowl LII commercial for Monster Products' headphones. The commercial stars Azalea, Joe Perry (musician), RiceGum, Yo Gotti, and Joey Fatone.\n\nAs an actress, Meoz was cast in a Motel 6 commercial which began running nationally March 1, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "14056137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14056137", "title": "Kirsten Sheridan", "text": "Kirsten Sheridan\n\nKirsten Sheridan is an Irish film director and screenwriter. The director of \"August Rush\" (2007) and \"Disco Pigs\" (2001), Sheridan was nominated for an Academy Award for co-writing the semi-autobiographical film \"In America\" with her father, director Jim Sheridan, and her sister, Naomi Sheridan.\n\nBorn in Dublin, Sheridan moved to New York City in 1981, spending her early childhood there while her father struggled to make it as an actor and theater director. Her family moved back to Ireland eight years later, whereupon her father found success as the director of \"My Left Foot\", in which Sheridan plays the younger sister of lead actor Daniel Day-Lewis. She studied script writing at New York University in 1993 and went to film school at University College Dublin, ultimately earning her film degree from Dun Laoghaire College of Art and Design in 1998.\n\nHer thesis short film \"Patterns\" won several international film festival awards, including Clermont-Ferrand, Cork, Galway, Dresden, Aspen, and Chicago, and her next short, \"The Case of Majella McGinty\", about a little girl who escapes her stressful life by crawling into a suitcase, received festival awards at Foyle, Cork, San Francisco, Cologne, and Worldfest Houston.\n\nThe first feature film Sheridan directed was 2001's \"Disco Pigs\", Enda Walsh's screen adaptation of his own play, starring Cillian Murphy and Elaine Cassidy as teenagers in a lifelong, obsessive, antisocial friendship. \"The Guardian\" described the independent film as a \"stylised, hyperkinetic drama ... that combines kitchen-sink realism and vicious fight scenes with highly stylised fantasy sequences\". \"Disco Pigs\" earned Sheridan nominations for best director at the British Independent Film Awards and the Irish Film & TV Academy Awards, as well as prizes at the Castellinaria Youth Film Festival, the Giffoni Film Festival, the Young European Cinema Film Festival and the Ourense Film Festival.\n\nNext, Sheridan collaborated with her father Jim and sister Naomi on the script for \"In America\", a film based on their memories of their family's years of poverty in New York, with the story of the death of Jim's younger brother woven in as an added element. Jim directed the film, which went on to success and earned several prestigious awards nominations, including an Oscar nomination for Best Original Screenplay. Sheridan's latest film is 2007's \"August Rush\", which stars Jonathan Rhys Meyers and Keri Russell as star-crossed lovers and musicians, Freddie Highmore as their orphaned musical prodigy offspring, and Robin Williams as a Faginesque character. \"The Irish Times\" criticized the film as \"bounc(ing) around between so many forms, moods and genres that it proves impossible to get a handle on,\" while \"Variety\" called it \"utterly predictable, but with moments of genuine charm.\"\n\nSheridan has three children, daughter Leyla (born 2002) and sons Seamus (born 2007) and Frankie (born 2010).\n\n\nSheridan directed \"Dollhouse\" in 2010. Filming took place over 21 days, and it was realised in 2012. The unscripted story, featured a cast of young Irish actors, including then-unknown Jack Reynor and Seána Kerslake. The film featured at the 62nd Berlin International Film Festival and won the jury prize at the 2012 Odesa International Film Festival.\n\nIn addition to the accolades listed below, Sheridan has won many awards for her short films.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35260196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35260196", "title": "Las Edades del Hombre", "text": "Las Edades del Hombre\n\nLas Edades del Hombre is a religious foundation that was created to promote the sacred art of Castilla y León (Spain). The initiative was an idea of José Jiménez Lozano and José Velicia.\n\nSince 1988 the foundation Las Edades del Hombre has organized several exhibitions around the world, highlighting the Castile and León ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "31856527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31856527", "title": "Leaves from the Theatre of War", "text": "Leaves from the Theatre of War\n\nLeaves from the Theatre of War is the title of a series of 250 ink drawings by Nabil Kanso. The series depicts a long sequence of wide ranging images reflecting satiric tonality and expressions on war and the human tragicomedy. The works were done at various intervals between 1980 and 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "46389417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46389417", "title": "Library of the Printed Web", "text": "Library of the Printed Web\n\nLibrary of the Printed Web is a physical archive devoted to web-to-print artists’ books, zines and other printout matter. Founded by Paul Soulellis in 2013, the collection was acquired by The Museum of Modern Art Library in January 2017. The project has been described as \"web culture articulated as printed artifact,\" an \"archive of archives,\" characterized as an \"accumulation of accumulations,\" much of it printed on demand. Techniques for appropriating web content used by artists in the collection include \"grabbing\", \"hunting\", \"scraping\" and \"performing\", detailed by Soulellis in \"Search, Compile, Publish,\" and later referenced by Alessandro Ludovico.\n\nAmong the 130 artists included in Library of the Printed Web are Olia Lialina, Mishka Henner, Clement Valla, Karolis Kosas, Lauren Thorson, Cory Arcangel, Silvio Lorusso, Angela Genusa, Jean Keller, Aaron Krach, Joachim Schmid, Benjamin Shaykin, Chantal Zakari, Richard Prince, David Horvitz and Penelope Umbrico. Over 240 works are in the collection. Library of the Printed Web continues to grow through curatorial acquisition and artist contributions.\n\nThe collection is used primarily for experimental publishing research, as a way to question issues of copyright, privacy and appropriation by artists on the internet, and as the basis for academic workshops in design and new media.\n\nThe project is frequently featured at book fairs, independent publishing conferences and schools, appearing at Miss Read Berlin Art Book Fair, Stadtbibliothek Stuttgart, Merz Akademie, Printed Matter's NY Art Book Fair, Offprint London, Theorizing the Web, Interrupt 3 at Brown University, The Internet Yami-Ichi, Printed Matter's LA Art Book Fair, Odds and Ends Art Book Fair at Yale Art Gallery, Rhode Island School of Design School of Visual Arts, International Center of Photography, School of the Museum of Fine Arts Boston and Offprint Paris. In 2013 Library of the Printed Web was featured at Theorizing the Web and The Book Affair at the opening of the 55th Venice Biennale.\n\n\"Printed Web\" is an artists' publication devoted to web-to-print art and discourse, published by Paul Soulellis / Library of the Printed Web. The project began in 2014 as a way to present new work by artists included in Soulellis’ Library of the Printed Web. Artists are invited to submit new or existing network-based work for the printed page. In the spirit of Seth Siegelaub, each issue is curated as a group exhibition for the printed page. Printed Web circulates primarily as print-on-demand publications, but also includes PDFs, ZIPs, GIFs, and server directories. More than 180 artists and writers have contributed to the project through issue #4. Individual issues are widely held in special artists’ publications collections and libraries, including Museum of Modern Art NY, Yale University, San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, Walker Center, and NY Public Library.\n\n\"Printed Web 2\" was included in the exhibition \"Aerial Imagery in Print, 1860 to Today\" at Museum of Modern Art, organized by MoMA Library, featuring a project by James Bridle. \"Printed Web 3\" was an open call and launched on the front page of Rhizome and at Offprint London in May 2015, featuring work by 147 artists. \"Printed Web 4\" was a co-publication with International Center of Photography and featured in the exhibition \"Public, Private, Secret,\" curated by Charlotte Cotton in June 2016. The text \"Folding the Web\" by Michael Connor, artistic director of Rhizome, was included in \"Printed Web 4\".\n\n\"Printed Web 5: Bot Anthologia\" features algorithmic media: bots, feeds, streams, and other autonomous projects. It was presented at Eyebeam and Interrupt 4 at Brown University.\n\n\n\n\n\nIncluded 30+ artists who make bots, feeds, streams, and other autonomous projects. \n\n"}
{"id": "4925439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4925439", "title": "List of DanceSport dances", "text": "List of DanceSport dances\n\n<onlyinclude> \nThe dances that make up the list of DanceSport dances are performed competitively at amateur and professional levels throughout the world. Ten international style ballroom dances—five Standard and five Latin—are defined by the World Dance Council (WDC), which has world-wide membership of all countries taking part in ballroom competitions. \n\nThe WDC incorporates various groupings and former titles, such as the World Dance and DanceSport Council (former title). The WDC is the governing body for international professional and amateur DanceSport. The World DanceSport Federation is, to some extent, a rival body which issues rules for amateur competitions. The list is supplemented by nine American style dances—four Smooth and five Rhythm—which are defined by United States dance organizations, such as USA Dance, (formerly USABDA, the United States Amateur Ballroom Dancers Association).</onlyinclude>\n\nBesides determining which dances are performed, these organizations specify many other aspects of their competitions, for instance, the tempo of music allowed and the duration of each competition round.\n\nWithin World Dance Council international competitions are two categories of dances, \"Ballroom\" (also called Standard or Modern) and \"Latin\". In England (e.g. at the Blackpool Dance Festival), the categories are traditionally called Ballroom and Latin American dances respectively. In the Ballroom dances, men typically wear evening dress (coattails, waistcoats and white bow ties), while women wear gowns. Partners remain in closed position throughout the dance, and movements tend to be elegant and sweeping. The ballroom dances are progressive, moving anti-clockwise round the floor. \n\nThe Latin dances are more overtly sensual, with skimpy costumes for women and tight-fitting ones for men. More variation in movement is allowed than in the Standard dances. Close, semi-open and open figures are danced. Choreography is now extremely important. Hip action - Latin technique is required; and athletic and balletic maneuvers are incorporated which makes it into a DanceSport. Two Latin dances are progressive going counter clockwise (samba and paso doble), but there is no obligation to consistently move round the floor.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n</onlyinclude>\n\nThe Smooth and Rhythm categories of American style DanceSport roughly correspond to the Standard and Latin categories of International style. In Smooth, dancers wear costumes not greatly dissimilar to those worn by their counterparts in Standard---Standard dresses often have prominent floats embellishing the arms and fuller skirts which are typically absent in Smooth, due to the open movement and changing arm positions requiring less restriction on the body; however, the dances themselves are significantly different as a result of influence by dancers like Fred Astaire and Arthur Murray in the years following World War II. While elegance and flow remain the goal, as in International Standard, dancers do not remain in closed position exclusively, instead breaking away from each other periodically and experimenting with open footwork. The Rhythm dances were also influenced by American dancers of the post-World War II era, but the differences between it and International Latin are more subtle. Costumes are similar, and while step patterns are not identical, movements are as free and explicitly sensual as in Latin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3322764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3322764", "title": "List of partner dance books", "text": "List of partner dance books\n\nListed below are books that describe the techniques of various partner dances.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50830938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50830938", "title": "Marcelle Tassencourt", "text": "Marcelle Tassencourt\n\nMarcelle Tassencourt (28 May 1914 – 18 December 2001) was a French actress and theatre director.\n\nIn 1960, she was appointed head of the Théâtre Montansier in Versailles. She was a drama teacher at the Versailles conservatory. Among her students were Catherine Frot, Pierre Pradinas, George Corraface, Fanny Cottençon, Muriel Mayette, Anne Benoît and Francis Perrin who, some years after he finished the national conservatory, became in turn director of the Théâtre Montansier. Thierry Maulnier was her husband.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9321644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9321644", "title": "Mark Podwal", "text": "Mark Podwal\n\nMark Podwal (born June 8, 1945) is an artist, author, filmmaker and physician. He may be best known for his drawings on The New York Times OP-ED page. In addition, he is the author and illustrator of books for children as well as for adults. Most of these works — Podwal's own as well as those he has illustrated for others—typically focus on Jewish legend, history and tradition. Exhibited in galleries and museums throughout the world, his art is represented in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Carnegie Museum of Art, Fogg Art Museum, the Jewish Museum in Prague, and the Library of Congress.\n\nBeyond his works on paper, Podwal’s artistry has been employed in an array of diverse projects, including the design of a series of decorative plates for the Metropolitan Museum of Art: \"Passover Plate\", \"Zodiac Platter\" (Met Bestseller), and \"Life Cycle\" (Met Bestseller). His work has been animated for public television in \"A Passover Seder with Elie Wiesel\" (Time Warner), engraved on a Congressional Gold Medal presented by President Reagan to Elie Wiesel, and woven into an Aubusson tapestry that adorns the ark in the main sanctuary of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York. Moreover, he designed sixteen kiln cast glass panels for the United Jewish Appeal Federation Headquarters in New York. Podwal collaborated with Academy Award winning filmmaker Allan Miller on the documentary \"House of Life: The Old Jewish Cemetery in Prague\", narrated by Claire Bloom. In 2009 and 2010, the film was broadcast on PBS. Podwal's portraits of Mozart in costumes from his operas were published as a boxed set of greeting cards by the Metropolitan Opera.\n\nIn conjunction with the Anti-Defamation League, Podwal began \"The Jerusalem Sky Project\", a program that fosters tolerance and awareness by bringing together young children from the Jewish, Islamic, and Christian communities. Participating religious schools study Podwal's \"Jerusalem Sky\" in their classrooms, and then encourage their students to illustrate their own depictions of Jerusalem. Amidst the learning, the children of each school write to or meet with their counterparts at a school of another faith and begin to learn about each other's religion and culture. After a few weeks, the program culminates with an exhibition of all of the drawings from each of the schools. At the opening of the exhibition, the children meet to enjoy each other's art and company. In a 2005 article called \"Three Faiths, One Lesson\", the \"New York Times\" covered the completion of the program at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in Brooklyn, NY. The project has since also been carried out in Los Angeles, CA, and Binghamton, NY.\n\nIn 2011, Podwal received commissions to illustrate a new Passover \"Haggadah\" for the Central Conference of American Rabbis Press; to design new embroidered textiles for Prague's 700-year-old Altneuschul; to create a limited edition print for the Metropolitan Opera's production of \"Nabucco\"; and to design \"Hanukkah\" cards for the Metropolitan Museum and the Metropolitan Opera. Also in 2011, he received the Jewish Cultural Achievement Award from the Foundation for Jewish Culture.\n\nIn 2014, the Terezin Ghetto Museum exhibited Podwal’s cycle \"All This Has Come Upon Us\", a series of 42 paintings and drawings created especially for that venue.\nThe works, which span Jewish history from the destruction of the two temples in Jerusalem, through the history of anti-Semitism and persecution in Europe, culminating in the Holocaust, have been described by the artist as offering \"a disturbing reminder of how Europe’s extensive history of 'Jew-hatred' laid the groundwork for Terezin and Auschwitz\". The series has been published as a portfolio of archival pigment prints, which has been acquired by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, the Library of Congress, Yad Vashem, the Bodleian Library, the British Library, the Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard University, Yale University, Princeton University Library, Columbia University, Hebrew University, and the National Library of Israel, among many others.\n\nIn 2015, Mark Podwal was commissioned to design new textiles for the restored synagogue in the Czech city of Brno. At Prague's Klementinum, Podwal's series \"Mozart and Prague\" was exhibited along with Mozart's handwritten manuscripts.\n\nIn 2016, Glitterati Inc. published a 374-page monograph on his work, \"Reimagined: 45 Years of Jewish Art\".\n\nPodwal is represented by Forum Gallery, New York and has exhibited there since 1977. He continues to pursue a parallel career as a physician and currently serves on the faculty of New York University School of Medicine as Clinical Associate Professor of Dermatology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183280", "title": "Neoclassicism", "text": "Neoclassicism\n\nNeoclassicism (from Greek νέος \"nèos\", \"new\" and Latin \"classicus\", \"of the highest rank\") is the name given to Western movements in the decorative and visual arts, literature, theatre, music, and architecture that draw inspiration from the \"classical\" art and culture of classical antiquity. Neoclassicism was born largely thanks to the writings of Johann Joachim Winckelmann, at the time of the rediscovery of Pompeii and Herculaneum, but its popularity spread all over Europe as a generation of European art students finished their Grand Tour and returned from Italy to their home countries with newly rediscovered Greco-Roman ideals. The main Neoclassical movement coincided with the 18th-century Age of Enlightenment, and continued into the early 19th century, laterally competing with Romanticism. In architecture, the style continued throughout the 19th, 20th and up to the 21st century.\n\nEuropean Neoclassicism in the visual arts began c. 1760 in opposition to the then-dominant Rococo style. Rococo architecture emphasizes grace, ornamentation and asymmetry; Neoclassical architecture is based on the principles of simplicity and symmetry, which were seen as virtues of the arts of Rome and Ancient Greece, and were more immediately drawn from 16th-century Renaissance Classicism. Each \"neo\"-classicism selects some models among the range of possible classics that are available to it, and ignores others. The Neoclassical writers and talkers, patrons and collectors, artists and sculptors of 1765–1830 paid homage to an \"idea\" of the generation of Phidias, but the sculpture examples they actually embraced were more likely to be Roman copies of Hellenistic sculptures. They ignored both Archaic Greek art and the works of Late Antiquity. The \"Rococo\" art of ancient Palmyra came as a revelation, through engravings in Wood's \"The Ruins of Palmyra\". Even Greece was all-but-unvisited, a rough backwater of the Ottoman Empire, dangerous to explore, so Neoclassicists' appreciation of Greek architecture was mediated through drawings and engravings, which subtly smoothed and regularized, \"corrected\" and \"restored\" the monuments of Greece, not always consciously.\n\nNeoclassicism is a revival of the many styles and spirit of classic antiquity inspired directly from the classical period, which coincided and reflected the developments in philosophy and other areas of the Age of Enlightenment, and was initially a reaction against the excesses of the preceding Rococo style. While the movement is often described as the opposed counterpart of Romanticism, this is a great over-simplification that tends not to be sustainable when specific artists or works are considered. The case of the supposed main champion of late Neoclassicism, Ingres, demonstrates this especially well. The revival can be traced to the establishment of formal archaeology.\n\nThe writings of Johann Joachim Winckelmann were important in shaping this movement in both architecture and the visual arts. His books \"Thoughts on the Imitation of Greek Works in Painting and Sculpture\" (1750) and \"Geschichte der Kunst des Alterthums\" (\"History of Ancient Art\", 1764) were the first to distinguish sharply between Ancient Greek and Roman art, and define periods within Greek art, tracing a trajectory from growth to maturity and then imitation or decadence that continues to have influence to the present day. Winckelmann believed that art should aim at \"noble simplicity and calm grandeur\", and praised the idealism of Greek art, in which he said we find \"not only nature at its most beautiful but also something beyond nature, namely certain ideal forms of its beauty, which, as an ancient interpreter of Plato teaches us, come from images created by the mind alone\". The theory was very far from new in Western art, but his emphasis on close copying of Greek models was: \"The only way for us to become great or if this be possible, inimitable, is to imitate the ancients\".\n\nWith the advent of the Grand Tour, a fad of collecting antiquities began that laid the foundations of many great collections spreading a Neoclassical revival throughout Europe. \"Neoclassicism\" in each art implies a particular canon of a \"classical\" model.\n\nIn English, the term \"Neoclassicism\" is used primarily of the visual arts; the similar movement in English literature, which began considerably earlier, is called Augustan literature. This, which had been dominant for several decades, was beginning to decline by the time Neoclassicism in the visual arts became fashionable. Though terms differ, the situation in French literature was similar. In music, the period saw the rise of classical music, and \"Neoclassicism\" is used of 20th-century developments. However, the operas of Christoph Willibald Gluck represented a specifically Neoclassical approach, spelt out in his preface to the published score of \"Alceste\" (1769), which aimed to reform opera by removing ornamentation, increasing the role of the chorus in line with Greek tragedy, and using simpler unadorned melodic lines.\n\nThe term \"Neoclassical\" was not invented until the mid-19th century, and at the time the style was described by such terms as \"the true style\", \"reformed\" and \"revival\"; what was regarded as being revived varying considerably. Ancient models were certainly very much involved, but the style could also be regarded as a revival of the Renaissance, and especially in France as a return to the more austere and noble Baroque of the age of Louis XIV, for which a considerable nostalgia had developed as France's dominant military and political position started a serious decline. Ingres's coronation portrait of Napoleon even borrowed from Late Antique consular diptychs and their Carolingian revival, to the disapproval of critics.\n\nNeoclassicism was strongest in architecture, sculpture and the decorative arts, where classical models in the same medium were relatively numerous and accessible; examples from ancient painting that demonstrated the qualities that Winckelmann's writing found in sculpture were and are lacking. Winckelmann was involved in the dissemination of knowledge of the first large Roman paintings to be discovered, at Pompeii and Herculaneum and, like most contemporaries except for Gavin Hamilton, was unimpressed by them, citing Pliny the Younger's comments on the decline of painting in his period.\n\nAs for painting, Greek painting was utterly lost: Neoclassicist painters imaginatively revived it, partly through bas-relief friezes, mosaics and pottery painting, and partly through the examples of painting and decoration of the High Renaissance of Raphael's generation, frescos in Nero's \"Domus Aurea\", Pompeii and Herculaneum, and through renewed admiration of Nicholas Poussin. Much \"Neoclassical\" painting is more classicizing in subject matter than in anything else. A fierce, but often very badly informed, dispute raged for decades over the relative merits of Greek and Roman art, with Winckelmann and his fellow Hellenists generally the winning side.\n\nIt is hard to recapture the radical and exciting nature of early Neoclassical painting for contemporary audiences; it now strikes even those writers favourably inclined to it as \"insipid\" and \"almost entirely uninteresting to us\"—some of Kenneth Clark's comments on Anton Raphael Mengs' ambitious \"Parnassus\" at the Villa Albani, by the artist who his friend Winckelmann described as \"the greatest artist of his own, and perhaps of later times\". The drawings, subsequently turned into prints, of John Flaxman used very simple line drawing (thought to be the purest classical medium) and figures mostly in profile to depict \"The Odyssey\" and other subjects, and once \"fired the artistic youth of Europe\" but are now \"neglected\", while the history paintings of Angelica Kauffman, mainly a portraitist, are described as having \"an unctuous softness and tediousness\" by Fritz Novotny. Rococo frivolity and Baroque movement had been stripped away but many artists struggled to put anything in their place, and in the absence of ancient examples for history painting, other than the Greek vases used by Flaxman, Raphael tended to be used as a substitute model, as Winckelmann recommended. \nThe work of other artists, who could not easily be described as insipid, combined aspects of Romanticism with a generally Neoclassical style, and form part of the history of both movements. The German-Danish painter Asmus Jacob Carstens finished very few of the large mythological works that he planned, leaving mostly drawings and colour studies which often succeed in approaching Winckelmann's prescription of \"noble simplicity and calm grandeur\". Unlike Carstens' unrealized schemes, the etchings of Giovanni Battista Piranesi were numerous and profitable, and taken back by those making the Grand Tour to all parts of Europe. His main subject matter was the buildings and ruins of Rome, and he was more stimulated by the ancient than the modern. The somewhat disquieting atmosphere of many of his \"Vedute\" (views) becomes dominant in his series of 16 prints of \"Carceri d'Invenzione\" (\"Imaginary Prisons\") whose \"oppressive cyclopean architecture\" conveys \"dreams of fear and frustration\". The Swiss-born Johann Heinrich Füssli spent most of his career in England, and while his fundamental style was based on Neoclassical principles, his subjects and treatment more often reflected the \"Gothic\" strain of Romanticism, and sought to evoke drama and excitement.\n\nNeoclassicism in painting gained a new sense of direction with the sensational success of Jacques-Louis David's \"Oath of the Horatii\" at the Paris Salon of 1785. Despite its evocation of republican virtues, this was a commission by the royal government, which David insisted on painting in Rome. David managed to combine an idealist style with drama and forcefulness. The central perspective is perpendicular to the picture plane, made more emphatic by the dim arcade behind, against which the heroic figures are disposed as in a frieze, with a hint of the artificial lighting and staging of opera, and the classical colouring of Nicholas Poussin. David rapidly became the leader of French art, and after the French Revolution became a politician with control of much government patronage in art. He managed to retain his influence in the Napoleonic period, turning to frankly propagandistic works, but had to leave France for exile in Brussels at the Bourbon Restoration.\n\nDavid's many students included Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, who saw himself as a classicist throughout his long career, despite a mature style that has an equivocal relationship with the main current of Neoclassicism, and many later diversions into Orientalism and the Troubadour style that are hard to distinguish from those of his unabashedly Romantic contemporaries, except by the primacy his works always give to drawing. He exhibited at the Salon for over 60 years, from 1802 into the beginnings of Impressionism, but his style, once formed, changed little.\n\nIf Neoclassical painting suffered from a lack of ancient models, Neoclassical sculpture tended to suffer from an excess of them, although examples of actual Greek sculpture of the \"classical period\" beginning in about 500 BC were then very few; the most highly regarded works were mostly Roman copies. The leading Neoclassical sculptors enjoyed huge reputations in their own day, but are now less regarded, with the exception of Jean-Antoine Houdon, whose work was mainly portraits, very often as busts, which do not sacrifice a strong impression of the sitter's personality to idealism. His style became more classical as his long career continued, and represents a rather smooth progression from Rococo charm to classical dignity. Unlike some Neoclassical sculptors he did not insist on his sitters wearing Roman dress, or being unclothed. He portrayed most of the great figures of the Enlightenment, and travelled to America to produce a statue of George Washington, as well as busts of Thomas Jefferson, Ben Franklin and other luminaries of the new republic.\n\nAntonio Canova and the Dane Bertel Thorvaldsen were both based in Rome, and as well as portraits produced many ambitious life-size figures and groups; both represented the strongly idealizing tendency in Neoclassical sculpture. Canova has a lightness and grace, where Thorvaldsen is more severe; the difference is exemplified in their respective groups of the \"Three Graces\". All these, and Flaxman, were still active in the 1820s, and Romanticism was slow to impact sculpture, where versions of Neoclassicism remained the dominant style for most of the 19th century.\n\nAn early Neoclassicist in sculpture was the Swede Johan Tobias Sergel. John Flaxman was also, or mainly, a sculptor, mostly producing severely classical reliefs that are comparable in style to his prints; he also designed and modelled Neoclassical ceramics for Josiah Wedgwood for several years. Johann Gottfried Schadow and his son Rudolph, one of the few Neoclassical sculptors to die young, were the leading German artists, with Franz Anton von Zauner in Austria. The late Baroque Austrian sculptor Franz Xaver Messerschmidt turned to Neoclassicism in mid-career, shortly before he appears to have suffered some kind of mental crisis, after which he retired to the country and devoted himself to the highly distinctive \"character heads\" of bald figures pulling extreme facial expressions. Like Piranesi's \"Carceri\", these enjoyed a great revival of interest during the age of psychoanalysis in the early 20th century. The Dutch Neoclassical sculptor Mathieu Kessels studied with Thorvaldsen and worked almost exclusively in Rome.\n\nSince prior to the 1830s the United States did not have a sculpture tradition of its own, save in the areas of tombstones, weathervanes and ship figureheads, the European Neoclassical manner was adopted there, and it was to hold sway for decades and is exemplified in the sculptures of Horatio Greenough, Hiram Powers, Randolph Rogers and William Henry Rinehart.\n\nNeoclassicism first gained influence in England and France, through a generation of French art students trained in Rome and influenced by the writings of Winckelmann, and it was quickly adopted by progressive circles in other countries such as Sweden and Russia. At first, classicizing decor was grafted onto familiar European forms, as in the interiors for Catherine II's lover, Count Orlov, designed by an Italian architect with a team of Italian \"stuccadori\": only the isolated oval medallions like cameos and the bas-relief overdoors hint of Neoclassicism; the furnishings are fully Italian Rococo.\n\nA second Neoclassic wave, more severe, more studied (through the medium of engravings) and more consciously archaeological, is associated with the height of the Napoleonic Empire. In France, the first phase of Neoclassicism was expressed in the \"Louis XVI style\", and the second in the styles called \"Directoire\" or Empire. The Rococo style remained popular in Italy until the Napoleonic regimes brought the new archaeological classicism, which was embraced as a political statement by young, progressive, urban Italians with republican leanings.\n\nIn the decorative arts, Neoclassicism is exemplified in Empire furniture made in Paris, London, New York, Berlin; in Biedermeier furniture made in Austria; in Karl Friedrich Schinkel's museums in Berlin, Sir John Soane's Bank of England in London and the newly built \"capitol\" in Washington, D.C.; and in Wedgwood's bas reliefs and \"black basaltes\" vases. The style was international; Scots architect Charles Cameron created palatial Italianate interiors for the German-born Catherine II the Great, in Russian St. Petersburg.\n\nIndoors, Neoclassicism made a discovery of the genuine classic interior, inspired by the rediscoveries at Pompeii and Herculaneum. These had begun in the late 1740s, but only achieved a wide audience in the 1760s, with the first luxurious volumes of tightly controlled distribution of \"Le Antichità di Ercolano\" (\"The Antiquities of Herculaneum\"). The antiquities of Herculaneum showed that even the most classicizing interiors of the Baroque, or the most \"Roman\" rooms of William Kent were based on basilica and temple exterior architecture turned outside in, hence their often bombastic appeatrance to modern eyes: pedimented window frames turned into gilded mirrors, fireplaces topped with temple fronts. The new interiors sought to recreate an authentically Roman and genuinely interior vocabulary. Techniques employed in the style included flatter, lighter motifs, sculpted in low frieze-like relief or painted in monotones \"en camaïeu\" (\"like cameos\"), isolated medallions or vases or busts or \"bucrania\" or other motifs, suspended on swags of laurel or ribbon, with slender arabesques against backgrounds, perhaps, of \"Pompeiian red\" or pale tints, or stone colors. The style in France was initially a Parisian style, the \"Goût grec\" (\"Greek style\"), not a court style; when Louis XVI acceded to the throne in 1774, Marie Antoinette, his fashion-loving Queen, brought the \"Louis XVI\" style to court. However, there was no real attempt to employ the basic forms of Roman furniture until around the turn of the century, and furniture-makers were more likely to borrow from ancient architecture, just as silversmiths were more likely to take from ancient pottery and stone-carving than metalwork: \"Designers and craftsmen ... seem to have taken an almost perverse pleasure in transferring motifs from one medium to another\".\n\nFrom about 1800 a fresh influx of Greek architectural examples, seen through the medium of etchings and engravings, gave a new impetus to Neoclassicism, the Greek Revival. At the same time the Empire style was a more grandiose wave of Neoclassicism in architecture and the decorative arts. Mainly based on Imperial Roman styles, it originated in, and took its name from, the rule of Napoleon in the First French Empire, where it was intended to idealize Napoleon's leadership and the French state. The style corresponds to the more bourgeois Biedermeier style in the German-speaking lands, Federal style in the United States, the Regency style in Britain, and the \"Napoleon style\" in Sweden. According to the art historian Hugh Honour \"so far from being, as is sometimes supposed, the culmination of the Neo-classical movement, the Empire marks its rapid decline and transformation back once more into a mere antique revival, drained of all the high-minded ideas and force of conviction that had inspired its masterpieces\". An earlier phase of the style was called the Adam style in Great Britain and \"Louis Seize\", or Louis XVI, in France.\n\nNeoclassicism continued to be a major force in academic art through the 19th century and beyond—a constant antithesis to Romanticism or Gothic revivals —, although from the late 19th century on it had often been considered anti-modern, or even reactionary, in influential critical circles. The centres of several European cities, notably St. Petersburg and Munich, came to look much like museums of Neoclassical architecture.\n\nGothic revival architecture (often linked with the Romantic cultural movement), a style originating in the 18th century which grew in popularity throughout the 19th century, contrasted Neoclassicism. Whilst Neoclassicism was characterized by Greek and Roman-influenced styles, geometric lines and order, Gothic revival architecture placed an emphasis on medieval-looking buildings, often made to have a rustic, \"romantic\" appearance.\n\nIn England, Augustan literature had a direct parallel with the Augustan style of landscape design. The links are clearly seen in the work of Alexander Pope. The best surviving examples of Neoclassical English gardens are Chiswick House, Stowe House and Stourhead.\n\nIn fashion, Neoclassicism influenced the much greater simplicity of women's dresses, and the long-lasting fashion for white, from well before the French Revolution, but it was not until after it that thorough-going attempts to imitate ancient styles became fashionable in France, at least for women. Classical costumes had long been worn by fashionable ladies posing as some figure from Greek or Roman myth in a portrait (in particular there was a rash of such portraits of the young model Emma, Lady Hamilton from the 1780s), but such costumes were only worn for the portrait sitting and masquerade balls until the Revolutionary period, and perhaps, like other exotic styles, as undress at home. But the styles worn in portraits by Juliette Récamier, Joséphine de Beauharnais, Thérésa Tallien and other Parisian trend-setters were for going-out in public as well. Seeing Mme Tallien at the opera, Talleyrand quipped that: \"Il n'est pas possible de s'exposer plus somptueusement!\" (\"One could not be more sumptuously undressed\"). In 1788, just before the Revolution, the court portraitist Louise Élisabeth Vigée Le Brun had held a Greek supper where the ladies wore plain white Grecian tunics. Shorter classical hairstyles, where possible with curls, were less controversial and very widely adopted, and hair was now uncovered even outdoors; except for evening dress, bonnets or other coverings had typically been worn even indoors before. Thin Greek-style ribbons or fillets were used to tie or decorate the hair instead.\n\nVery light and loose dresses, usually white and often with shockingly bare arms, rose sheer from the ankle to just below the bodice, where there was a strongly emphasized thin hem or tie round the body, often in a different colour. The shape is now often known as the Empire silhouette although it predates the First French Empire of Napoleon, but his first Empress Joséphine de Beauharnais was influential in spreading it around Europe. A long rectangular shawl or wrap, very often plain red but with a decorated border in portraits, helped in colder weather, and was apparently laid around the midriff when seated—for which sprawling semi-recumbent postures were favoured. By the start of the 19th century, such styles had spread widely across Europe.\n\nNeoclassical fashion for men was far more problematic, and never really took off other than for hair, where it played an important role in the shorter styles that finally despatched the use of wigs, and then white hair-powder, for younger men. The trouser had been the symbol of the barbarian to the Greeks and Romans, but outside the painter's or, especially, the sculptor's studio, few men were prepared to abandon it. Indeed, the period saw the triumph of the pure trouser, or pantaloon, over the \"cullottes\" or knee-breeches of the Ancien Régime. Even when David designed a new French \"national costume\" at the request of the government during the height of the Revolutionary enthusiasm for changing everything in 1792, it included fairly tight leggings under a coat that stopped above the knee. A high proportion of well-to-do young men spent much of the key period in military service because of the French Revolutionary Wars, and military uniform, which began to emphasize jackets that were short at the front, giving a full view of tight-fitting trousers, was often worn when not on duty, and influenced cilivian male styles.\n\nThe trouser-problem had been recognised by artists as a barrier to creating contemporary history paintings; like other elements of contemporary dress they were seen as irredeemably ugly and unheroic by many artists and critics. Various strategems were used to avoid depicting them in modern scenes. In \"James Dawkins and Robert Wood Discovering the Ruins of Palmyra\" (1758) by Gavin Hamilton, the two gentleman antiquaries are shown in toga-like Arab robes. In \"Watson and the Shark\" (1778) by John Singleton Copley, the main figure could plausibly be shown nude, and the composition is such that of the eight other men shown, only one shows a single breeched leg prominently. However the Americans Copley and Benjamin West led the artists who successfully showed that trousers could be used in heroic scenes, with works like West's \"The Death of General Wolfe\" (1770) and Copley's \"The Death of Major Peirson, 6 January 1781\" (1783), although the trouser was still being carefully avoided in \"The Raft of the Medusa\", completed in 1819.\n\nClassically inspired male hair styles included the Bedford Crop, arguably the precursor of most plain modern male styles, which was invented by the radical politician Francis Russell, 5th Duke of Bedford as a protest against a tax on hair powder; he encouraged his friends to adopt it by betting them they would not. Another influential style (or group of styles) was named by the French \"à la Titus\" after Titus Junius Brutus (not in fact the Roman Emperor Titus as often assumed), with hair short and layered but somewhat piled up on the crown, often with restrained quiffs or locks hanging down; variants are familiar from the hair of both Napoleon and George IV of England. The style was supposed to have been introduced by the actor François-Joseph Talma, who upstaged his wigged co-actors when appearing in productions of works such as Voltaire's \"Brutus\" (about Lucius Junius Brutus, who orders the execution of his son Titus). In 1799 a Parisian fashion magazine reported that even bald men were adopting Titus wigs, and the style was also worn by women, the \"Journal de Paris\" reporting in 1802 that \"more than half of elegant women were wearing their hair or wig \"à la Titus\".\n\nIn American architecture, Neoclassicism was one expression of the American Renaissance movement, \"ca.\" 1890–1917; its last manifestation was in Beaux-Arts architecture, and its very last, large public projects were the Lincoln Memorial (highly criticized at the time), the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. (also heavily criticized by the architectural community as being backward thinking and old fashioned in its design), and the American Museum of Natural History's Roosevelt Memorial. These were considered stylistic anachronisms when they were finished. In the British Raj, Sir Edwin Lutyens' monumental city planning for New Delhi marks the glorious sunset of Neoclassicism. World War II was to shatter most longing for (and imitation of) mythical, heroic times.\n\nConservative modernist architects such as Auguste Perret in France kept the rhythms and spacing of columnar architecture even in factory buildings. Where a colonnade would have been decried as \"reactionary\", a building's pilaster-like fluted panels under a repeating frieze looked \"progressive\". Pablo Picasso experimented with classicizing motifs in the years immediately following World War I, and the Art Deco style that came to the fore following the 1925 Paris \"Exposition des Arts Décoratifs\", often drew on Neoclassical motifs without expressing them overtly: severe, blocky commodes by É.-J. Ruhlmann or Süe & Mare; crisp, extremely low-relief friezes of damsels and gazelles in every medium; fashionable dresses that were draped or cut on the bias to recreate Grecian lines; the art dance of Isadora Duncan; the Streamline Moderne styling of U.S. post offices and county court buildings built as late as 1950; and the Roosevelt dime.\n\nThere was an entire 20th-century movement in the Arts which was also called Neo-classicism. It encompassed at least music, philosophy and literature. It was between the end of World War I and the end of World War II. (For information on the musical aspects, see 20th-century classical music and Neoclassicism in music. For information on the philosophical aspects, see Great Books.)\n\nThis literary Neoclassical movement rejected the extreme romanticism of (for example) Dada, in favour of restraint, religion (specifically Christianity) and a reactionary political program. Although the foundations for this movement in English literature were laid by T. E. Hulme, the most famous Neoclassicists were T. S. Eliot and Wyndham Lewis. In Russia, the movement crystallized as early as 1910 under the name of Acmeism, with Anna Akhmatova and Osip Mandelshtam as the leading representatives.\n\nNeoclassicism in music is a 20th-century movement; in this case it is the Classical and Baroque musical styles of the 17th and 18th centuries, with their fondness for Greek and Roman themes, that were being revived, not the music of the ancient world itself. (The early 20th century had not yet distinguished the Baroque period in music, on which Neoclassical composers mainly drew, from what we now call the Classical period.) The movement was a reaction in the first part of the 20th century to the disintegrating chromaticism of late-Romanticism and Impressionism, emerging in parallel with musical Modernism, which sought to abandon key tonality altogether. It manifested a desire for cleanness and simplicity of style, which allowed for quite dissonant paraphrasing of classical procedures, but sought to blow away the cobwebs of Romanticism and the twilit glimmerings of Impressionism in favour of bold rhythms, assertive harmony and clean-cut sectional forms, coinciding with the vogue for reconstructed \"classical\" dancing and costume in ballet and physical education. \n\nThe 17th-18th century dance suite had had a minor revival before World War I but the Neoclassicists were not altogether happy with unmodified diatonicism, and tended to emphasise the bright dissonance of suspensions and ornaments, the angular qualities of 17th-century modal harmony and the energetic lines of countrapuntal part-writing. Respighi's \"Ancient Airs and Dances\" (1917) led the way for the sort of sound the Neoclassicists aspired to. Although the practice of borrowing musical styles from the past has not been uncommon throughout musical history, art musics have gone through periods where musicians used modern techniques coupled with older forms or harmonies to create new kinds of works. Notable compositional characteristics are: referencing diatonic tonality, conventional forms (dance suites, concerti grossi, sonata forms, etc.), the idea of absolute music untramelled by descriptive or emotive associations, the use of light musical textures, and a conciseness of musical expression. In classical music, this was most notably perceived between the 1920s and the 1950s. Igor Stravinsky is the best-known composer using this style; he effectively began the musical revolution with his Bach-like Octet for Wind Instruments (1923). A particular individual work that represents this style well is Prokofiev's Classical Symphony No. 1 in D, which is reminiscent of the symphonic style of Haydn or Mozart. Neoclassical ballet as innovated by George Balanchine de-cluttered the Russian Imperial style in terms of costume, steps and narrative, while also introducing technical innovations.\n\nIn 1905–1914 Russian architecture passed through a brief but influential period of Neoclassical revival; the trend began with recreation of Empire style of alexandrine period and quickly expanded into a variety of neo-Renaissance, palladian and modernized, yet recognizably classical schools. They were led by architects born in the 1870s, who reached creative peak before World War I, like Ivan Fomin, Vladimir Shchuko and Ivan Zholtovsky. When economy recovered in the 1920s, these architects and their followers continued working in primarily modernist environment; some (Zholtovsky) strictly followed the classical canon, others (Fomin, Schuko, Ilya Golosov) developed their own modernized styles.\n\nWith the crackdown on architects' independence and official denial of modernism (1932), demonstrated by the international contest for the Palace of Soviets, Neoclassicism was instantly promoted as one of the choices in Stalinist architecture, although not the only one. It coexisted with moderately modernist architecture of Boris Iofan, bordering with contemporary Art Deco (Schuko); again, the purest examples of the style were produced by Zholtovsky school that remained an isolated phenomena. The political intervention was a disaster for constructivist leaders yet was sincerely welcomed by architects of the classical schools.\n\nNeoclassicism was an easy choice for the USSR since it did not rely on modern construction technologies (steel frame or reinforced concrete) and could be reproduced in traditional masonry. Thus the designs of Zholtovsky, Fomin and other old masters were easily replicated in remote towns under strict material rationing. Improvement of construction technology after World War II permitted Stalinist architects to venture into skyscraper construction, although stylistically these skyscrapers (including \"exported\" architecture of Palace of Culture and Science, Warsaw and the Shanghai International Convention Centre) share little with the classical models. Neoclassicism and neo-Renaissance persisted in less demanding residential and office projects until 1955, when Nikita Khrushchev put an end to expensive Stalinist architecture.\n\nAfter a lull during the period of modern architectural dominance (roughly post-World War II until the mid-1980s), Neoclassicism has seen something of a resurgence.\n\nAs of the first decade of the 21st century, contemporary Neoclassical architecture is usually classed under the umbrella term of New Classical Architecture. Sometimes it is also referred to as Neo-Historicism or Traditionalism. Also, a number of pieces of postmodern architecture draw inspiration from and include explicit references to Neoclassicism, Antigone District and the National Theatre of Catalonia in Barcelona among them. Postmodern architecture occasionally includes historical elements, like columns, capitals or the tympanum.\n\nFor sincere traditional-style architecture that sticks to regional architecture, materials and craftsmanship, the term Traditional Architecture (or vernacular) is mostly used. The Driehaus Architecture Prize is awarded to major contributors in the field of 21st century traditional or classical architecture, and comes with a prize money twice as high as that of the modernist Pritzker Prize.\n\nIn the United States, various contemporary public buildings are built in Neoclassical style, with the 2006 Schermerhorn Symphony Center in Nashville being an example.\n\nIn Britain, a number of architects are active in the Neoclassical style. Examples of their work include two university libraries: Quinlan Terry's Maitland Robinson Library at Downing College and Robert Adam Architects' Sackler Library.\n\n\nSee also the References at Neoclassical architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "39262097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39262097", "title": "Ngesh", "text": "Ngesh\n\nIn the Kuba region of the Democratic Republic of Congo, the belief in nature spirits, called \"ngesh\" or \"mingeh\", is widespread. Ngesh are believed to possess human characteristics, live near water sources in forests or villages, and may be encountered at any time. Community residents know the name of local \"ngesh\" and their offspring. \"Ngesh\" impose themselves on various human affairs, including the control of harvest and the fertility of women.\n\nEach \"ngesh \"is named and distinguished from one another; the Kuba invest each \"ngesh\" with its own particular temperament, the likes and dislikes of which set off its volatile nature. The \"ngesh \"have their own individual character.\n\nOrigin stories for some Kuba masquerade traditions describe how the mask's creator first encountered an \"ngesh\" in the forest and, after a period of disorientation, returns home to carve a likeness of the \"ngesh\". While \"ngesh \"are rarely represented by figurative sculpture, they are thought to be personified in masquerade figures, which are in turn empowered by these nature spirits.\n\nThe potential for masked performers to become aggressive is a fundamental part of Kuba masquerade,and it is a reflection of the influence of the unpredictable nature of ngesh on Kuba masked dancers. The association between \"ngesh\" and masquerade is also underscored by the strict rule that forbid spectators from touching the masks or coming to close to a masked dancer.\n"}
{"id": "13859138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13859138", "title": "Nûñnë'hï", "text": "Nûñnë'hï\n\nThe Nunnehi are a race of immortal spirit people in Cherokee mythology. In the Cherokee language, \"Nunnehi\" literally means \"The People Who Live Anywhere\", but it is often translated into English as \"The People Who Live Forever\", or simply \"The Immortals\". The Cherokee believed the Nunnehi to be a type of supernatural human being, completely distinct from ghosts and nature spirits, as well as from gods. In this sense, the Nunnehi (along with the \"Yunwi Tsunsdi\", or \"Little People\" in the Cherokee language) are the Cherokee equivalent of fairies in traditional European folklore. The belief in fairy-like beings is universal among all ethnicities, including all American Indian tribes. \n\nAccording to Cherokee folklore, the Nunnehi had many underground townhouses throughout the southern Appalachian Mountains, and they were particularly fond of high mountain peaks where no timber ever grew. Hunters would often hear the Nunnehi in the mountains, singing and dancing and beating drums, but when they would go toward the sound, it would shift about and suddenly seem to be coming from behind them or from some other direction, so that the person hearing the sound would never be able to find where it was coming from.\n\nThe Nunnehi only appeared to humans when they allowed themselves to be seen. When they did appear, they looked and acted just like other Cherokee. The Nunnehi were very fond of music and dancing, as are the Cherokee. One of the stories about the Nunnehi tells about four Nunnehi women who came to a town called Nottely and danced with the young men there for hours. Nobody knew that they were Nunnehi women; everyone thought they were just women from another village or town. As the women were leaving the dance, a group of men standing outside the townhouse watched the women walk down an open trail to the Nottely River. When the women reached the river they suddenly disappeared, with no apparent hiding place. It was then that the men realized that the women were Nunnehi.\n\nThe Nunnehi were very friendly to the Cherokee and often helped lost wanderers, especially during the winter. The Nunnehi would take the person into their warm townhouses until the person was rested and ready to return home, if the person chose to do so. A well-known story tells about a man named Yahula, who had become separated from a hunting party. His friends searched for him for a long time but eventually gave up and returned to their village, grieving for Yahula, whom they believed was dead. The Nunnehi found Yahula and brought him back to their townhouse to live with them. Yahula became immortal and lived with the Nunnehi for a long time until he began to miss his friends and family. One night Yahula went back to his village to see his friends and family, and he told them what had happened. When they asked Yahula to eat dinner with them, he said he could not, for he had eaten the food of the Nunnehi and could never again eat human food. He told them he had only come back to visit and that he would soon be returning to the Nunnehi. His friends and family begged him to stay, but he refused, telling them he could not choose death with his own people over immortality with the Nunnehi. Yahula then returned to the Nunnehi, but he continued to visit the Cherokee often.\n\nThe Nunnehi often warned the Cherokee of impending danger and protected them in times of need. One of the most well-known stories about the Nunnehi tells how they helped the Cherokee before the Removal in 1838, when the Cherokee were forced to leave their homeland and resettle in Oklahoma. According to the story, the Nunnehi came to a Cherokee village and told the people to pack up their belongings and to be prepared to leave in seven days to come live with the Nunnehi, for a great catastrophe was about to happen, worse than anything that had ever before happened to the Cherokee. After seven days, the Nunnehi returned for the Cherokee and led them to a large stone deep into the mountains. As the Cherokee watched, the stone rolled away, revealing an entrance into the mountain. Inside the mountain was the most beautiful place the Cherokee had ever seen, and many families rushed into the mountain without ever looking back. However, some of the people refused to enter, and instead chose to stay outside and face whatever was about to happen to them. The people who remained outside were later forced to leave their homes and resettle in Oklahoma. The people who chose to live with the Nunnehi escaped the fate of their fellow Cherokee. According to the story, it is from this group of Cherokee that the small number of modern Cherokee who still live on their native land is descended.\n\nThere are also other similar stories that tell about how the Nunnehi invited Cherokee people to come live with them in order to avoid war and misfortune. One well-known story tells about a time long before the time of the Removal, when the Nunnehi told a group of Cherokee that they would return in seven days to carry away the townhouse along with anyone inside it. The Nunnehi warned the people not to shout or make any sound as the townhouse was being carried away. On the seventh day there was a sound like thunder that grew louder and louder as it approached the village. Despite the Nunnehi's warning to the Cherokee to remain quiet, some of the people became frightened and screamed when the ground began to shake as the Nunnehi lifted the townhouse off the ground. Some of the Nunnehi were startled by the scream and dropped a part of the townhouse, which fell to the ground and became the mound at a village called Setsi. The Nunnehi steadied themselves and carried off the remaining part of the townhouse, with the people still in it, to a mountain called Lone Peak, where it was changed to solid rock and the people inside it became invisible and immortal like the Nunnehi.\n\nIn another story, the Nunnehi invited a group of Cherokee to come live with them, and after the seven days had passed, they returned and took the people to live with them underneath Hiwassee River, near the area where Shooting Creek comes in. The Cherokee who went to live with the Nunnehi under the river would sometimes catch the fish-drags of their kinsmen because they did not want to be forgotten. On warm summer days, when the wind ripples the surface of the water, their voices could sometimes be heard by those floating by on the river.\n\nThe Nunnehi sometimes assisted the Cherokee in times of war. One of the most well-known stories about the Nunnehi tells about how they fought alongside the Cherokee when their land was invaded by a powerful, unknown tribe of American Indians from the southeast. Nikwasi was the most ancient settlement of the Cherokee. the invading tribe attacked Nikwasi one morning just before daybreak. The warriors of Nikwasi fought back but were eventually overpowered. A stranger then appeared and told the Nikwasi chief to retreat and that he himself would fight the enemy. The chief did as he was instructed, believing the stranger to be a chief from another village who had come with reinforcements. The mound at Nikwasi then opened up and hundreds of Nunnehi warriors poured out and began to approach the battlefield. When the Nunnehi warriors reached the invading tribe they became invisible and slaughtered all but a few who had surrendered and begged for mercy. The Nunnehi told the invading tribe that they got what they deserved for attacking a peaceful tribe, and then sent them back to where they came from so they could deliver the news to their people and warn them to never again attack Nikwasi.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, by which time Nikwasi had become known as Franklin, North Carolina, a group of Union soldiers approached Franklin with the intention of burning it to the ground. A group of scouts returned to their commanding officers and warned them not to attack the town because it was heavily guarded by soldiers on every corner. However, the town was defenseless, as every able-bodied person had already left to fight in the war. Unaware of this fact, the Union soldiers then changed their course toward Atlanta, Georgia, burning every town in their path. According to the Cherokee, it was the Nunnehi that had protected Franklin from the Union soldiers.\n\nThere is a story that tells about how some of the Nunnehi eventually decided to leave their home. Near the Cherokee town of Tugaloo there was a circular depression in the ground, the size of a townhouse. The inside of the depression was waist-deep and was always clean as though it had been cared for by unknown hands. Travelers passing by would often throw rocks and logs into the depression, but when they returned the logs and rocks would always be lying far from the depression. The Cherokee believed the place to be a Nunnehi townhouse, and so they always avoided the place out of respect. Eventually, some logs had been thrown into the depression and were allowed to remain there, and the Cherokee concluded that the Nunnehi had become annoyed by the presence of the white men and had abandoned their townhouse forever.\n\nAfter the Removal in 1838, when the Cherokee were forced to leave their homeland and resettle in Oklahoma, one of their greatest regrets was that they were forced to leave behind forever their relatives who had gone to live with the Nunnehi. Storytelling always has been and is still an important tradition in Cherokee culture, and the Nunnehi remain a popular subject of many stories. There are even some Cherokee still living in their native land that claim to have had encounters with the Nunnehi. \n"}
{"id": "50565032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50565032", "title": "Premio Ruido", "text": "Premio Ruido\n\nPremio Ruido (Spanish for \"\"Noise Prize\") was set up in October 2015 as a yearly single-category award for the best music album produced in Spain. The first ceremony to present the award took place in January 2016, after the nominees had been announced in November of the previous year.\n\nIn terms of the process followed and rules, Premio Ruido bears a close similarity to the Mercury Prize in the UK, and the intention is to recognise artistic quality over sales success, in contrast to previously existing awards. However, whilst the Mercury Prize is awarded by a mixed panel that includes both musicians and figures of the music industry, as well as members of the media and journalists, and was established by the British Phonographic Industry, Premio Ruido was established by Periodistas Asociados de Música (the Spanish Association of Music Journalists) and it is their members who take part in the selection. The company Virtual Contenidos SL manages and produces the annual awards, while PAM's Board of Directors conducts and ratifies the voting process.\n\nAt the initial stage, PAM members vote for their favourite national records launched that year. This is so as to draw a stylistically diverse shortlist of twelve nominated albums. A recording is deemed \"national\" if at least half of the artists taking part are Spanish nationals or else have permanent residency in Spain. At the final stage, the associates vote for just one of the nominees. The winning artist is presented with a trophy.\n\nEl Niño de Elche was the inaugural winner with the album \"Voces del extremo\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22383809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22383809", "title": "Readergirlz", "text": "Readergirlz\n\nReadergirlz is an online book community that is an advocate for literacy in teenage girls. The site was founded on March 1, 2007 by Dia Calhoun, Janet Lee Carey, Lorie Ann Grover, and Justina Chen Headley. The site is a partner of the Young Adult Library Services Association. Readergirlz hosts authors monthly for an exchange with teens and administers special literacy projects, including the support of Teen Read Week, the third week of October, and Support Teen Literature Day in April.\n\n"}
{"id": "28563574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28563574", "title": "Spectacle brooch", "text": "Spectacle brooch\n\nThe Spectacle brooch was an ancient fibula used by the Illyrians. The spectacle brooch originates in Illyria and consists of two concentrically wound spirals attached to a pin.\n"}
{"id": "211329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211329", "title": "St Mark's Basilica", "text": "St Mark's Basilica\n\nThe Patriarchal Cathedral Basilica of Saint Mark (), commonly known as Saint Mark's Basilica (; ), is the cathedral church of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Venice, northern Italy. It is the most famous of the city's churches and one of the best known examples of Italo-Byzantine architecture. It lies at the eastern end of the Piazza San Marco, adjacent and connected to the Doge's Palace. Originally it was the chapel of the Doge, and has been the city's cathedral only since 1807, when it became the seat of the Patriarch of Venice, archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Venice, formerly at San Pietro di Castello.\n\nFor its opulent design, gold ground mosaics, and its status as a symbol of Venetian wealth and power, from the 11th century on the building has been known by the nickname Chiesa d'Oro (Church of gold).\n\nThe first St Mark's was a building next to the Doge's Palace, ordered by the doge in 828, when Venetian merchants stole the supposed relics of Mark the Evangelist from Alexandria, and completed by 832; from the same century dates the first St Mark's Campanile (bell tower). The church was burned in a rebellion in 976, when the populace locked Pietro IV Candiano inside to kill him, and restored or rebuilt in 978. Nothing certain is known of the form of these early churches. From perhaps 1063 the present basilica was constructed. The consecration is variously recorded as being in 1084–85, 1093 (the date most often taken), 1102 and 1117, probably reflecting a series of consecrations of different parts. \n\nIn 1094 the supposed body of Saint Mark was rediscovered in a pillar by Vitale Faliero, doge at the time. The building also incorporates a low tower (now housing St Mark’s Treasure), believed by some to have been part of the original Doge's Palace. The Pala d'Oro ordered from Constantinople was installed on the high altar in 1105. In 1106 the church, and especially its mosaics, were damaged by a serious fire in that part of the city; it is not entirely clear whether any surviving mosaics in the interior predate this, though there is some 11th-century work surviving in the main porch. The main features of the present structure were all in place by then, except for the narthex or porch, and the facade.\n\nThe basic shape of the church has a mixture of Italian and Byzantine features, notably \"the treatment of the eastern arm as the termination of a basilican building with main apse and two side chapels rather than as an equal arm of a truly centralized structure\". In the first half of the 13th century the narthex and the new facade were constructed, most of the mosaics were completed and the domes were covered with second much higher domes of lead-covered wood in order to blend in with the Gothic architecture of the redesigned Doge's Palace.—\n\nThe basic structure of the building has not been much altered. Its decoration has changed greatly over time, though the overall impression of the interior with a dazzling display of gold ground mosaics on all ceilings and upper walls remains the same. The succeeding centuries, especially the period after the Venetian-led conquest of Constantinople in the Fourth Crusade of 1204 and the fourteenth century, all contributed to its adornment, with many elements being spolia brought in from ancient or Byzantine buildings, such as mosaics, columns, capitals, or friezes. Gradually, the exterior brickwork became covered with marble cladding and carvings, some much older than the building itself, such as the statue of the Four Tetrarchs (below).\nThe latest structural additions include the closing-off of the Baptistery and St Isidor's Chapel (1300s), the carvings on the upper facade and the Sacristy (1400s), and the closing-off of the Zen Chapel (1500s).\n\nDuring the 13th century the emphasis of the church's function seems to have changed from being the private chapel of the Doge to that of a \"state church\", with increased power for the procurators. It was the location for the great public ceremonies of the state, such as the installation and burials of Doges, though as space ran out and the demand for grander tombs increased, from the 15th century Santi Giovanni e Paolo became the usual burial place. The function of the basilica remained the same until 1807, after the end of the Venetian Republic, when the basilica finally became subject to the local bishop, the Patriarch of Venice, though from the 12th century he had had a throne there, opposite the doge's. The transfer of the see was ordered by Napoleon during his period of control of Venice. Before this, Venice's cathedral from 1451 was the much less grand San Pietro di Castello.\n\nThe \"procurators\", an important organ of the Republic of Venice, were in charge of administration; their seats were the Procuratie, in St Mark’s Square. All building and restoring works were directed by the \"protos\": great architects such as Jacopo Sansovino and Baldassarre Longhena held the office. The doge himself appointed a special group of clergy led by the \"primicerio\". Procurators and protos still exist and perform the same tasks for the Patriarchate.\n\nThe exterior of the west facade of the basilica is divided in three registers: lower, upper, and domes.\nIn the lower register of the façade, five round-arched portals, enveloped by polychrome marble columns, open into the narthex through bronze-fashioned doors.\n\nThe upper level of mosaics in the lunettes of the lateral ogee arches has scenes from the \"Life of Christ\" (all post-Renaissance replacements) culminating in a 19th-century replacement \"Last Judgment\" lower down over the main portal that replaced a damaged one with the same subject (during the centuries many mosaics had to be replaced inside and outside the basilica, but subjects were rarely changed).\n\nMosaics with scenes showing the history of the relics of Saint Mark from right to left fill the lunettes of the lateral portals; the first on the left is the only one on the façade still surviving from the 13th century. The formal subject is the \"Deposition of the Relics\", but it is probably depicted as the crowd leaving San Marco after the ceremonial installation of a new doge. The four bronze horses are shown in their place on the façade. We can for once get a good idea of the original compositions of the mosaics from paintings and other depictions, especially Gentile Bellini's very large \"Procession in Piazza San Marco\" in the Gallerie dell'Accademia.\n\nThe stone sculpture is relatively limited at the lower level, where a forest of columns and patterned marble slabs are the main emphases. It includes relatively narrow bands of Romanesque work on the portals, richly carved borders of foliage mixed with figures to the ogee arches and other elements, and large shallow relief saints between the arches. Along the roofline, by contrast, there is a line of statues, many in their own small pavilions, culminating in Saint Mark flanked by six angels in the centre, above a large gilded winged lion (his symbol, and that of Venice).\n\nIn the upper register, from the top of ogee arches, statues of Theological and Cardinal Virtues, four Warrior Saints, Constantine, Demetrius, George, Theodosius and St Mark watch over the city. Above the large central window of the façade, under St Mark, the Winged Lion (his symbol) holds the book quoting \"“Pax Tibi Marce Evangelista Meus” (Peace to you Mark my evangelist) \". In the centre of the balcony the famous bronze horses face the square.\n\nThe Horses of Saint Mark were installed on the balcony above the portal of the basilica in about 1254. They date to Classical Antiquity, though their date remains a matter of debate, and presumably were originally the team pulling a quadriga chariot, probably containing an emperor. By some accounts they once adorned the Arch of Trajan.\n\nThe horses were long displayed at the Hippodrome of Constantinople, and in 1204 Doge Enrico Dandolo sent them back to Venice as part of the loot sacked from Constantinople in the Fourth Crusade.\n\nThey were taken to Paris by Napoleon in 1797 but returned to Venice in 1815. After a long restoration, since the 1970s the originals have been kept in St Mark’s Museum inside the basilica and the horses now on the facade of the cathedral are bronze replicas.\n\nIn an attempt to stabilise the Roman Empire after the crisis of the third century, the Emperor Diocletian imposed a new Imperial office structure: a four co-emperor ruling plan called The Tetrarchy. The famous porphyry statue of the Four Tetrarchs represents the interdependence of the four rulers. It was taken from Constantinople, during the Fourth Crusade in 1204, and set into the south-west corner of the basilica (the above-mentioned low tower) at the level of the Piazza San Marco. Part of the missing foot of one of the figures was discovered in Istanbul (near the Bodrum Mosque) in the 1960s, where it is still on display, clarifying the original location of the work.\n\nBy the 13th century, the narthex or porch embraced the western arm of the basilica on the three sides; when it was first built is uncertain but was probably the 13th century. Later the southern part was closed to obtain the Baptistery (14th century) and the Zen Chapel (16th century).\n\nThe narthex prepares the visitors’ eyes for the atmosphere of the gilded interior, just as the Old Testament stories represented in its 13th-century mosaic ceiling prepare them for the New Testament decoration in the interior. The main subjects are Genesis and the life of Noah, Abraham, Joseph, and Moses. It has long been recognised that the compositions are very close to those of the Cotton Genesis, an important 4th- or 5th-century Greek luxury illuminated manuscript copy of the Book of Genesis, now in the British Library, though very badly damaged in a fire of 1731. About a hundred of the 359 miniatures in the manuscript are used. It is presumed that this reached Venice after the Fourth Crusade.\n\nOn the wall above and at the sides of the main doorway are the Four Evangelists and saints, 11th-century mosaics, the oldest in the building, that decorated the old facade to St Mark’s even before the narthex was built.\n\nThe interior is based on a Greek cross, with each arm divided into three naves with a dome of its own as well as the main dome above the crossing. The dome above the crossing and the western dome are bigger than the other three. This is based on Constantine's Church of the Holy Apostles in Constantinople.\n\nThe marble floor (12th century, but underwent many restorations) is entirely tessellated in geometric patterns and animal designs. One particular panel in the pavement shows two cocks carrying a trussed-up fox, has been interpreted politically by some, as a reference to the French conquest of Milan in the Italian Wars. Others see it as a sacred symbol of the faithful wish for immortality, with the victory of the cross, and \"analogous to the hope of resurrection, the victory of the soul over death\". The techniques used were opus sectile and opus tessellatum.\n\nThe lower register of walls and pillars is completely covered with polychrome marble slabs. The transition between the lower and the upper register is delimited all around the basilica by passageways which largely substituted the former galleries.\n\nThe upper levels of the interior are completely covered with bright mosaics covering an area of about 8000 m. The great majority use the traditional background of gold glass tesserae, creating the shimmering overall effect. Unfortunately, the Doge retained a workshop of mosaicists until the late 18th century, and in the 19th century contracted a mosaic workshop run by the Salviati glassmaking firm, and the majority of the medieval mosaics have been \"restored\" by removing and resetting, usually with a considerable loss of quality, so that \"only about one-third of the mosaic surface can be regarded as original\".\n\nThe earliest surviving work, in the main porch, perhaps dates to as early as 1070, and was probably by a workshop that had left Constantinople in the mid-11th century and worked at Torcello Cathedral. They are in \"a fairly pure Byzantine style\" but in succeeding phases of work Byzantine influence reflecting the latest style of the capital was reduced by stages, disappearing altogether by about the 1130s, after which the style was Italian in essentials, reflecting \"a change from a colonial to a local art\". The main period of decoration was the 12th century, a period of deteriorating relations between Venice and Byzantium, but very little is known about the process or how it was affected by politics. \n\nThe main work on the interior mosaics was apparently complete by the 1270s, with work on the atrium continuing into the 1290s. After that the St Marks workshop seems to have been disbanded, so that when a fire in 1419 caused serious damage, the only Venetian capable of the work had just died and the Signoria of Florence had to be asked for help; they sent Paolo Uccello. Initially the restorations tried to retain the medieval compositions and replicate a medieval style, but from 1509 the policy changed and further work was in contemporary styles. From the 1520s a series of Venetian painters were able to get commissions for the replacement of undamaged areas in what was considered to be superior modern style, until from 1610 a number of conservation-minded decrees attempted to restrain the process.\n\nThe large and complicated programme of the decoration centres on the seated large Christ Pantocrator in the main apse (now a 15th-century recreation) above patron saints of Venice. The East dome over the high altar has a bust of Christ in the centre surrounded by standing prophets and the Virgin Mary, with the Four Evangelists in the pendentives. A large and comprehensive cycle of the \"Life of Christ\" occupies much of the roof, with usually extensive coverage for the Middle Ages of his miracles, originally shown in 29 scenes in the transepts. It includes the Ascension of Christ in the central dome and Pentecost in the west dome. The centre is an etimasia (\"empty throne\") with book and dove, with the twelve apostles seated round the outer rims, with flames on their heads and rays connecting them to the central throne. Below the apostles pairs of figures representing the \"nations\", with \"tituli\", stand between the windows. Similar images are found in the Chludov Psalter and elsewhere.\n\nAs well as the miracles the transepts contain cycles of the Life of the Virgin before and during the Infancy of Christ. As well as many saints, church fathers, virtues and angels, there are scenes from the lives of Saints Mark, Clement, Peter, and John (with many scenes in post-Renaissance versions). The west wall has a 13th-century deesis below a Last Judgement in the vault, and a huge Tree of Jesse was added to the end wall of the north transept in 1548.\n\nThe origin of the iconography of the Old Testament cycle in the porch in the Cotton Genesis manuscript has been described above; similar relationships have been traced for parts of the interior mosaics, in particular with the cycle of the Life of the Virgin and Infancy of Christ sharing a common Byzantine model with a fresco cycle in the cathedral at the Mirozhsky Monastery in Pskov in Russia.\n\nAs mentioned above, restorations and replacements were often necessary thereafter, or done even when not necessary, and great painters such as Paolo Uccello, Andrea del Castagno, Paolo Veronese, Jacopo Tintoretto and his son Domenico were among those who produced the designs for the mosaicists. Titian and the Padovanino prepared the cartoons for the sacristy, built in the late 15th century. Other mosaics decorate the Baptistery, the Mascoli Chapel, St Isidor Chapel and the Zen Chapel, which has scenes from the life of St Mark, perhaps from the 1270s, and among the latest work of the original programme to be done.\n\nThe eastern arm has a raised presbytery with a crypt beneath. The presbytery is separated by an altar screen formed by eight red marble columns crowned with a high Crucifix and statues by Pier Paolo and Jacobello Dalle Masegne, masterpiece of Gothic sculpture (late 14th century). Behind the screen, marble banisters with Sansovino's bronze statues of the Evangelists and Paliari's of the Four Doctors mark the access to the high altar, which contains St Mark’s relics. Above the high altar is a canopy (“ciborium”) on columns decorated with fine reliefs. The altarpiece is the famous Pala d'Oro, a masterpiece of Byzantine craftsmanship, originally designed for an antependium.This masterpiece incorporates 1,300 pearls, 300 sapphires, 300 emeralds, and 400 garnets. They are all original and highly polished, unfaceted gems. The original altar frontal is now in the treasury. The choir stalls are embellished with inlay by Fra Sebastiano Schiavone, and above them on both sides are three reliefs by Sansovino.\n\nBehind the presbytery are the sacristy and a 15th-century church consecrated to St Theodore (the first patron saint of Venice) where is displayed a painting (Child’s Adoration) by Giovanni Battista Tiepolo.\n\nThe treasury contains what is now a unique collection of Byzantine portable objects in metalwork, enamel and hardstone carving, most looted from Constantinople after the Fourth Crusade (although there was a serious fire in the treasury in 1231), with probably a new influx after the \"Franks\" were expelled in 1261. Thereafter most objects were made locally, though there are also important Islamic works, especially in rock crystal, and some from Northern Europe. Selections have toured internationally.\n\nMost of the church plate was ordered to be surrendered to the state immediately after the end of the Venetian Republic in 1797, and was melted down for coining; there were only 141 objects in an inventory ordered by the Austrians in 1816, many in materials that could not be recycled for cash. The group of Byzantine hardstone vessels in various semi-precious stones is by the most important to survive. A glass situla or bucket carved with Bacchic figures been dated to either the 4th or 7th centuries.\n\nThe 6th-century \"throne-reliquary\" in rather crudely carved alabaster, the \"Sedia di San Marco\", was moved from the high altar to the Treasury in 1534. It would only fit a bishop with a slight figure, and has a large compartment for relics below the seat. It may have functioned as a \"throne-lectern\" or resting place for a gospel book, making actual the hetoimasia (\"empty throne\") images with open books that are found in art of the period.\n\nThe treasury \"now houses the best single collection of Byzantine metalwork, and particularly of enameling, that survives\", including two imperial chalices of antique sardonyx with Byzantine gold and enamel mounts, marked \"Romanos\", the name of four emperors.\nOn the right of the screen is the platform from which the newly elected doge appeared. In the left aisle are St Clement’s chapel and the Holy Host altar. Here is the pillar where St Mark’s relics were rediscovered in 1094, as depicted in the interesting mosaics of the right aisle (where the entrance to St Mark’s Treasure is)..\n\nOn the left of the screen is the platform for readings from Scripture; on the right aisle are St Peter’s chapel and the , a venerated Byzantine icon. On the northern side are St Isidor’s chapel and the Mascoli chapel.\n\nThe spacious interior of the building with its multiple choir lofts was the inspiration for the development of a Venetian polychoral style among the composers appointed maestro di cappella at the choir of St Mark's. The style was first developed by a foreigner, Adrian Willaert, and was continued by Italian organists and composers: Andrea Gabrieli, his nephew Giovanni Gabrieli, and Claudio Monteverdi. Their music took advantage of the spacious architecture and led to the development of polychoral and antiphonal textures. An example of this technique is found in In Ecclesiis by Giovanni Gabrieli.\n\nOne of the most well-known and widely cited papers in biology is \"The Spandrels of San Marco and the Panglossian Paradigm: A Critique of the Adaptationist Programme\". It is based on an analogy between the beautifully decorated spandrels spaced around the domes in the basilica, which sit on four arches (technically, the structures are pendentives rather than spandrels), and various biological traits and features. The authors, Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Lewontin, argue that the spandrels are the inevitable spaces that exist when a dome is placed above arches rather than design elements and that many biological traits are similarly the side effects of functional traits rather than adaptive traits in themselves.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7095879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7095879", "title": "The Dazzle Dancers", "text": "The Dazzle Dancers\n\nThe Dazzle Dancers are a performance group founded in 1996 in New York City's Tompkins Square Park during Wignot (the first year that Wigstock didn't happen in the park) by artist Mike Albo (aka Dazzle Dazzle) and Grover Guinta (aka Vinnie Dazzle). The male and female dancers appear in spare costumes or nude at festivals, night clubs, and the Hipster scene.\n\nThe Dazzle Dancers have performed nationally at many late-night clubs, Coney Island Amusement Park, Wigstock, the Burning Man Festival in Nevada, and onstage with the band Blondie to a crowd of 20,000 people at the Millennium New Year's Eve Celebration in Miami, Florida.\nIn 2005 the Dazzle Dancers were a central theme in a feature film, the romantic gay comedy \"Adam & Steve\".\n\nTheir costume designer is Matthew Flower, better known as Machine Dazzle, who has noted in an interview with Imagine Fashion that his designs are like sacred objects to him and believes in the transformative quality of costumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "38136915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38136915", "title": "The Englishman's Library", "text": "The Englishman's Library\n\nThe Englishman's Library was an English book series of the 1840s, a venture of the publisher James Burns. It ran eventually to 31 volumes.\n\nThe title had been used already in 1824, for \"The Englishman's library\", edited by E. H. L., published by Charles Knight. The series was announced in ambitious fashion in the \"British Critic\". It was started by William Gresley and Edward Churton, with propagandistic aims; the works are still a source for the \"condition of England\" debate of the time. Gresley wrote six novels for the series.\n\nAccording to its prospectus, the Library aimed to \"unite a popular style with sound Christian principles\". The announced authors did not in fact all contribute.\n\nThose behind the series were younger High Church men who wished to imitate some of the success of the \"Tracts for the Times\". They were less hostile to the Tractarians than older, more orthodox members of the Hackney Phalanx.\n\nPaget as editor started a children's book collection, \"The Juvenile Englishman's Library\", in 1844. It was inspired in part by the success of Edgar Taylor's English translations of \"Grimm's Fairy Tales\". The series ran to 21 titles. Later John Fuller Russell was editor. Volume 4, \"Popular Tales\" (1844), had translation of fairy tales by Friedrich de la Motte Fouqué, Wilhelm Hauff and Karl Spindler. Four volumes were by John Mason Neale.\n\n"}
{"id": "31953262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31953262", "title": "The Girls on Film", "text": "The Girls on Film\n\nThe Girls on Film is a web series created by Jeff Hammond, Ashleigh Harrington and Cat McCormick, directed by Hammond, and starring Harrington and a variety of guest stars. It premiered on YouTube on 20 December 2010. Each episode is around three to seven minutes long. The project recreates movie scenes originally played by men, with women taking the starring roles.\nThe Girls on Film is listed as one of the top websites for Film Geeks in Leslie Simon's book, Geek Girls Unite: Why Fangirls, Bookworms, Indie Chicks, and Other Misfits Will Inherit the Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "18046658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18046658", "title": "The Great White Hope (film)", "text": "The Great White Hope (film)\n\nThe Great White Hope is a 1970 American biographical romantic drama film written and adapted from the Howard Sackler play of the same name.\n\nThe film was directed by Martin Ritt, starring James Earl Jones, Jane Alexander, Chester Morris, Hal Holbrook, Beah Richards and Moses Gunn. Jones and Alexander, who also appeared in the same roles in the stage versions, both received Best Actor and Actress Academy Award nominations for their performances.\n\nThe film and play is based on the true story of Jack Johnson and his first wife, Etta Terry Duryea, and the controversy over their marriage and Duryea's death by suicide in 1912.\n\nSet between 1910 and 1915, the story follows Jack Jefferson, patterned after real-life boxer, Jack Johnson, going on a hot streak of victories in the boxing ring as he defeats every white boxer around. Soon the press and racists announce the search for a \"great white hope\", a boxer who will defeat Jefferson for the heavyweight title. Meanwhile, Jefferson prepares for a few more matches, but he lets his guard down by courting the beautiful, and very white, Eleanor Bachman, and when everyone, including Jack's black \"wife\", discover this, the tensions grow to fever pitch. Jack's close black friends become scared over his pushing the envelope of success and the white authorities conspire to frame him with unlawful sexual relations with Eleanor and thereby take away his title. It leads to jealousy, a run from the law, and finally, disaster.\n\n\nThe film opened to positive responses from both audiences and critics. They especially loved the performances of both James Earl Jones and Jane Alexander, who were in the original stage play: they won Tonys for the play. Jones would get bigger roles after this film, and Alexander made a debut here. Jones later contributed commentary to a documentary about Jack Johnson that would sum up this film, saying: \"To know the story of Jack Johnson is to know that it is a study in hubris.\"\n\nHowever, critical opinion of the film has declined in recent years. \"The Great White Hope\" currently maintains a 43% \"Rotten\" approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes from 7 reviews, indicating mixed-to-negative reviews. Critic Vincent Canby referred to the film as \"One of those liberal, well-meaning, fervently uncontroversial works that pretend to tackle contemporary problems by finding analogies at a safe remove in history\" while critic Emanuel Levy wrote \"The movie is too theatrical and every idea is spelled out for the audience.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22835483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22835483", "title": "The Lost Letter (1972 film)", "text": "The Lost Letter (1972 film)\n\nThe Lost Letter (, ) is a 1972 Soviet musical-tragicomedy film by Dovzhenko Film Studios in Kiev. The movie is considered a pearl of Ukrainian cinema. The film is based on the novella \"\" by Nikolai Gogol from cycle \"Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka\".\n\nCossack Vasyl (Ivan Mykolaichuk) prepares himself for a mounted voyage to Peterburg, the capital of the Russian Empire. Vasyl carries a hramota (sealed official document) given to him by the hetman through his secretary, Pereverny-Kruchenko, that is rumored to cost ten Poods of gold. Vasyl's wife sews the hramota into his hat and his father (Vasyl Symchych) gives him magic tobacco to repel evil and an advice to find a good co-journeyman. \n\nThe film depicts the adventures of Vasyl in sequences that are filled with Ukrainian culture, and shows Ukrainian cuisine, costumes, traditions, mystical and comedy-filled situations, anecdotes, and a plethora of obstacles which Vasyl must overcome. On his way together with an evil servant (chort) he comes to a river crossing where a ferry carries people from one side to another. There he finds his partner in arms, Andriy, a zaporozhian cossack. Further along the way, something happens to the papers when they stop at an inn to rest. When Vasyl and Andriy arrive in St. Petersburg, they hand over the hramota to the baroness \"von Likhtenberg\" who passes them to the empress. The documents do not carry any information and Vasyl has to leave without results. \n\nOn the way home, both of them decide to shoot each other. As they are saying in unison the Nicene Creed (Apostles' Creed) they hear a voice that identifies itself as Kudz coming from a nearby rock, saying he was the same chort and the witch turned him into a rock after he helped Vasyl. Kudz asks them to throw him in a nearby marsh so as not to cause any further harm to random travelers on the road. As Vasyl arrives with his friend near their village, Dykanka, they meet a little boy who asks them to let him go to see the cossack, Vasyl who had supposedly returned from having seen the empress. Then they arrive and are met by the rest of the village population. Moments later, everybody awaits Vasyl again by his house to tell the story of his rendezvous with the empress. In the last scene, he wishes the little boy to have a loyal horse, an open field, and always be at people's service. The scene is accompanied by the triumphant \"Cossack march\" of the Ukrainian folkloric song about Sahaidachny.\n\n\nThe film was supposed to be directed by Viktor Hres, featuring Anatoly Papanov in the lead role. However, when Hres became suddenly ill, he offered it to Borys Ivchenko. The latter agreed on the condition that the main role would be given to Ivan Mykolaychuk. The script was remade and the movie was filmed in 1972 at the Dovzhenko Film Studios. However, Soviet censors banned it from being screened. Nevertheless, in 1973 the Bureau of Soviet Cinematography Propaganda in Moscow published 50 thousand pamphlets with images of Ivan Mykolaychuk in role of Cossack Vasyl. \n\nThe movie was finally released after the fall of the Soviet Union. It received the Golden Pagoda Award during the movie festival in Bangkok (see Cinema of Thailand). All the songs in the movie were contributed by Ivan Mykolaychuk, who also helped Ivan Drach write the movie's script.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25714070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25714070", "title": "The Prince Eugen Culture Prize", "text": "The Prince Eugen Culture Prize\n\nThe Prince Eugen Culture Prize is named after the Swedish Prince Eugén (1865–1947),who had a close connection to Norway and dedicated his life to strengthen the Swedish-Norwegian relations.\n\nThrough his position as royalty, the artistic prince was well-connected to the Norwegian public and cultural life, which he carefully followed while giving support to young artists. He was also involved in the Norwegian and Swedish musical scene and was a member of the committee of the construction of Stockholm Concert Hall. He was well known in the Scandinavian literature circles, and was an active reader of fiction, history and politics.\n\nThe Prince Eugen Culture Prize was founded to celebrate the 100 year mark of the dissolution of the Swedish-Norwegian union in 1905 after an initiative from the Royal Norwegian Embassy in Stockholm, in cooperation with Crown Princess Märtha's Church Council in Stockholm and Princess Märtha Louise's Culture Fund. The Prince Eugen Culture Prize is awarded to one Norwegian and one Swedish artist who through their work have contributed to strengthen Swedish-Norwegian relations. The award consists of a diploma and 50 000 Swedish crowns.\n\nThrough the years, the award has been presented by Queen Sonja of Norway, Crown Princess Victoria and Princess Madeleine of Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "2409029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2409029", "title": "The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things", "text": "The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things\n\nThe Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things is a painting attributed to Hieronymus Bosch or to a follower of his, completed around 1500 or later. Since 1898 its authenticity has been questioned several times. In 2015 the Bosch Research Conservation Project claimed it to be by a follower, but scholars at the Prado, where the painting hangs, dismissed this argument. The painting is oil on wooden panels and is presented in a series of circular images.\n\nFour small circles, detailing the four last things — Death, Judgment, Heaven, and Hell — surround a larger circle in which the seven deadly sins are depicted: wrath at the bottom, then (proceeding clockwise) envy, greed, gluttony, sloth, extravagance (later replaced with lust), and pride, using scenes from life rather than allegorical representations of the sins.\n\nAt the centre of the large circle, which is said to represent the eye of God, is a \"pupil\" in which Christ can be seen emerging from his tomb. Below this image is the Latin inscription \"Cave cave d[omi]n[u]s videt\" (\"Beware, Beware, The Lord Sees\").\n\nAbove and below the central image are inscription in Latin of Deuteronomy 32:28–29, containing the lines \"For they are a nation void of counsel, neither is there any understanding in them\", above, and \"O that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!\" below.\n\nIn 1560, Felipe de Guevara wrote about a pupil of Bosch, an unnamed \"discipulo\" (pupil), who was as good as his master and even signed his works with his master's name. Immediately after this, and without starting a new paragraph, Guevara refers to the painting of the \"Seven Deadly Sins\" as characteristic of his style. This led some scholars, as early as Dollmayr (1898) and most vocally Stechow (1966), to ascribe the work to this pupil. \n\nMost experts have argued since, however, that given the highly ambiguous nature of the passage, Guevara had probably returned to a description of the works of Bosch himself. Furthermore, the accuracy and authority of Guevara is suspect: when in 1570 Guevara's heirs sold a copy of \"The Haywain Triptych\" to Phillip II of Spain, it was made clear that Guevara had regarded that work as the original painted by Bosch himself, whilst nowadays it is known that his was a copy (displayed in El Escorial), of the original hanging in Prado. Phillip II of Spain himself purchased the work (prior to 1560, probably from a monastery art sale) in the belief that \"The Seven Deadly Sins\" was a Bosch original, and he always regarded it as such. It was his favourite Bosch painting and it hung in his own bedroom in El Escorial. When he donated the painting to El Escorial in 1574, it was cataloged as being a Bosch original; Silva Maroto argued that it is hard to believe that Guevara would question the authorship of Phillip's favourite Bosch \n\nThe alleged poor quality of the drawing had led to the incorrect belief it dates from Bosch's early period. The attribution to the \"discipulo\" was revived in the catalogue of the 2001 Bosch exhibition in Rotterdam, by Vermet and Vandenbroeck, who also suggested that several of the costumes suggest a much later date, around 1500, so that the awkward drawing and execution cannot be attributed to youthful imperfection. They also noted that the painting is not on oak, adding to their doubts about the attribution to Bosch. \n\nNowadays, most art historians agree that the costumes point at a date in between 1505 and 1510; it is argued that the key characteristics of the underlying drawing, the way the pictorial surface was developed, and the variety of strokes are entirely consistent with Bosch's later paintings. Furthermore, the theme, symbolism and the composition itself is profoundly original, which would make it extremely unlikely that an unknown pupil could have painted it.\n\nIn 2005, Ed Hoffman argued for the work being a copy, perhaps ordered by Philip II of Spain after the original had been damaged. In his view, the amateurish style, the plump figures, the lack of white highlights and the fact that the wooden panel is not oak but poplar (which can't be dated with dendrochronology). An argument for the authenticity, or at least originality, of the work could be found in the pentimenti of the underpainting, which indicate it could not have been a simple faithful reproduction. In addition, there is no question signature in the painting is that of Bosch himself, and not a forgery.\n\nIn October 2015, the Bosch Research and Conservation Project, which had been responsible, since 2007, for technical research on most of Bosch's paintings, rejected the attribution to Bosch and deemed it to be made by a follower, most likely the \"discipulo\". In response, the Prado Museum stated that they still consider the piece to be authentic.\n\nEach panel in the outer circle depicts a different sin. Clockwise from top (Latin names in brackets):\n\n\nThe four small circles also have details. In Death of the Sinner, death is shown at the doorstep along with an angel and a demon while the priest says the sinner's last rites, In Glory, the saved are entering Heaven, with Jesus and the saints, at the gate of Heaven an Angel prevents a demon from ensnaring a woman. Saint Peter is shown as the gatekeeper. In Judgment, Christ is shown in glory while angels awake the dead, while in the Hell demons torment sinners according to their sins.\n\n"}
{"id": "27936530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27936530", "title": "Toilet paper orientation", "text": "Toilet paper orientation\n\nToilet paper when used with a toilet roll holder with a horizontal axle parallel to the floor and also parallel to the wall has two possible orientations: the toilet paper may hang \"over\" (in front of) or \"under\" (behind) the roll; if perpendicular to the wall, the two orientations are right-left or near-away. The choice is largely a matter of personal preference, dictated by habit. In surveys of US consumers and of bath and kitchen specialists, 60–70 percent of respondents prefer \"over\".\n\nSome people hold strong opinions on the matter; advice columnist Ann Landers said that the subject was the most responded to (15,000 letters in 1986) and controversial issue in her column's history. Defenders of either position cite advantages ranging from aesthetics, hospitality, and cleanliness to paper conservation, the ease of detaching individual sheets, and compatibility with setting specifics such as recreational vehicles or having pets. Some writers have proposed connections to age, sex, or political philosophy, and survey evidence has shown a correlation with socioeconomic status. \n\nSolutions range from compromise, to using separate dispensers or separate bathrooms entirely, or simply ignoring the issue altogether. One man advocates a plan under which his country will standardize on a single forced orientation, and at least one inventor hopes to popularize a new kind of toilet roll holder which swivels from one orientation to the other.\n\nIn the article \"Bathroom Politics: Introducing Students to Sociological Thinking from the Bottom Up\", Eastern Institute of Technology sociology professor Edgar Alan Burns describes some reasons toilet paper politics is worthy of examination. On the first day of Burns' introductory course in sociology, he asks his students, \"Which way do you think a roll of toilet paper should hang?\" In the following fifty minutes, the students examine why they picked their answers, exploring the social construction of \"rules and practices which they have never consciously thought about before\". \n\nBurns' activity has been adopted by a social psychology course at the University of Notre Dame, where it is used to illustrate the principles of Berger and Luckmann's 1966 classic \"The Social Construction of Reality\". \n\nChristopher Peterson, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, classifies the choice of toilet paper orientation under \"tastes, preferences, and interests\" as opposed to either values or \"attitudes, traits, norms, and needs\". Other personal interests include one's favorite cola or baseball team. Interests are an important part of identity; one expects and prefers that different people have different interests, which serves one's \"sense of uniqueness\". Differences in interests usually lead at most to teasing and gentle chiding. For most people, interests don't cause the serious divisions caused by conflicts of values; a possible exception is what Peterson calls \"the 'get a life' folks among us\" who elevate interests into moral issues.\n\nMorton Ann Gernsbacher, a professor of psychology at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, compares the orientation of toilet paper to the orientation of cutlery in a dishwasher, the choice of which drawer in a chest of drawers to place one's socks, and the order of shampooing one's hair and lathering one's body in the shower. In each choice, there is a prototypical solution chosen by the majority, and it is tempting to offer simplistic explanations of how the minority must be different. She warns that neuroimaging experiments—which as of 2007 were beginning to probe behaviors from mental rotation and facial expressions to grocery shopping and tickling—must strive to avoid such cultural bias and stereotypes.\n\nIn his book \"Conversational Capital\", Bertrand Cesvet gives toilet paper placement as an example of ritualized behavior—one of the ways designers and marketers can create a memorable experience around a product that leads to word-of-mouth momentum. Cesvet's other examples include shaking a box of Tic Tacs and dissecting Oreo cookies.\n\nBroadcaster Jim Bohannon has said that such issues are good for talk radio: \"It is an interactive medium, a certain kind of clash, it doesn't have to be a violent clash, but at least a disagreement would certainly be at the top of the list. It has to be something that's of general interest.\"\n\nThe main reasons given by people to explain why they hang their toilet paper a given way are ease of grabbing and habit. Some particular advantages cited for each orientation include:\n\nPartisans have claimed that each method makes it easier to tear the toilet paper on a perforated sheet boundary, depending on the direction of pulling and the use of a second hand to stabilize the roll. (A traveller from the U.S. to China in 1991 noted a different setup: non-perforated paper with a metal cutter above the roll, which obliges the \"over\" direction.)\n\nIt is unclear if one orientation is more economical than the other. The \"Centralian Advocate\" attributes a claim that \"over\" saves on paper usage to Planet Green.\n\nIn the academic field of evaluation, Michael Scriven writes that the question of the correct way to insert toilet paper is a \"one-item aptitude test\" for measuring one's evaluation skills. These skills include the evaluative attitude, practical logical analysis, empathy, teaching, and being a quick study. To prove one's competence, one may either derive the \"one right answer\" or prove that the test is or is not culturally biased.\n\nThe question \"Do you prefer that your toilet tissue unwinds over or under the spool?\" is featured on the cover of Barry Sinrod and Mel Poretz's 1989 book \"The First Really Important Survey of American Habits\". The overall result: 68 percent chose over. Sinrod explained, \"To me, the essence of the book is the toilet paper question ... Either people don't care, or they care so much that they practically cause bodily injury to one another.\" Poretz observed, \"The toilet-paper question galvanizes people almost like the Miller Lite tastes-great/less-filling commercial.\"\n\nIn Bernice Kanner's 1995 book \"Are You Normal?\", 53 percent of survey respondents prefer \"over\", while \"a fourth\" prefer \"under\" and 8 percent do not know or care.\n\n\"Sitting Pretty: The History of the Toilet\", a travelling exhibition that tours Canadian museums, asks visitors to register their preferred roll direction. When the exhibition reached Huntsville, Ontario, in June 2001, 13,000 visitors had taken the survey, with 67 percent preferring \"over\". At the Saint Boniface Museum in Winnipeg in February 2005, a voting machine registered 5,831 \"over\" versus 5,679 \"under\", or 51 percent \"over\". Saint Boniface's director noted, \"I think there's been some cheating, though.\"\n\nGeorgia-Pacific commissioned a survey of Americans' bathroom habits in 1993 to launch its new Quilted Northern brand, and more surveys followed:\n\nIn 1993, American Standard Brands conducted a poll of \"designers, contractors, dealers, distributors and other bath and kitchen reps\" at the Kitchen/Bath Industry Show & Conference in Atlanta. The question: \"What is the correct and only way to hang the toilet paper – under or over?\" \"Over\" won 59 percent of the vote, 1,826 to 1,256. American Standard spokeswoman Nora Monroe observed, \"The bathroom is a territorial place. You'd be surprised how many people have definite opinions on this issue.\" In 2008, American Standard commissioned the 2008 Bathroom Habits Survey, a more traditional format conducted by Opinion Research Corporation with 1,001 respondents. This time, \"three-quarters\" answered \"over\".\n\nIn 1995, a survey by Scott Paper Company's \"Cottonelle College of Freshness Knowledge\" had \"most Americans over 50\" preferring \"over\". In another Cottonelle survey in 1999, 68 percent of respondents preferred \"over\" to 25 percent \"under\". Columnist Bonnie Henry hypothesizes of the others: \"Meanwhile, 7 percent – no doubt bored beyond belief at this point by the inane questioning – had slipped into a deep, irreversible coma.\"\n\nOn January 27, 2010, the 100th anniversary of Thomas Crapper's death, Cottonelle launched a \"Great Debate\" advertising campaign, inviting American consumers to vote their preference at a Kimberly-Clark website. The result was announced during the 82nd Academy Awards: 72 percent had voted \"over\". In a more traditional preliminary survey of 1,000 Americans, Cottonelle found that \"overs\" are more likely than \"unders\" to notice a roll's direction (74 percent), to be annoyed when the direction is incorrect (24 percent), and to have flipped the direction at a friend's home (27 percent).\n\nPoretz and Sinrod break down the results of their 1989 survey by sex and age. These are the percentages of respondents who roll their paper \"under\":\nThe book does not note the number of respondents in each segment, so it is difficult to say whether any of the deviations are statistically significant, but there does not seem to be a difference between men's and women's preferences. Nonetheless, such a difference has been claimed by other authors, in both directions. The American Standard conference poll concluded: \"Many men voted for over, saying it made the paper easier to reach.\" Inventor Curtis Batts arrives at a different conclusion from his personal experience: \"Women like it over, and men like it under. I think it bugs women when it touches the wall.\" Advice columnist Ms Maud of \"The Press\" asserts that women prefer \"over\" because they are \"logical thinkers\".\n\nA Cottonelle survey indicated that men were more likely than women to notice, and become annoyed with, a toilet roll hung against their preference.\n\nA popular-culture occurrence of a gender theory is found in the \"Weekly World News\", a supermarket tabloid that runs outlandish stories for comedic effect. In the 2003 story \"North Korea Shocker!\", the \"WWN\" claimed that North Korean leader Kim Jong-il was secretly female. As supporting evidence, Kim supposedly watched the Home Shopping Network, is a member of Oprah's Book Club, and \"Yells at staffers who leave the toilet seat up and hang toilet paper rolls outward instead of inward.\"\n\nAccording to \"W. C. Privy's Original Bathroom Companion, Number 2\", \"By more than 4 to 1, older folks prefer to have their toilet paper dispense over the front.\" The same claim is made by James Buckley's \"The Bathroom Companion\" for people older than 50.\n\nSinrod observed of his survey, \"60 percent of those who earn $50,000 or more prefer it to be over and 73 percent of those who earn less than $20,000 prefer under\". On what that proves: \"I don't know, but it's sure interesting.\"\n\nIn one local election in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, new voting machines were given a trial run by asking the question, \"Are you in favor of toilet paper in all public washrooms being installed with the loose end coming up and over the front of the roll?\" The answer was yes: 768 to 196, or 80 percent \"over\". It was thought to be a question \"which carried no political association\". Yet one teenager's science project at the Southern Appalachian Science and Engineering Fair, and a favorite of the fair's coordinator, was a survey concluding that liberals roll over while conservatives roll under.\n\nAdvice columnist Ann Landers (Eppie Lederer) was once asked which way toilet paper should hang. She answered \"under\", prompting thousands of letters in protest; she then recommended \"over\", prompting thousands more. She reflected that the 15,000 letters made toilet paper the most controversial issue in her column's 31-year history, wondering, \"With so many problems in the world, why were thousands of people making an issue of tissue?\"\n\nIn November 1986, Landers told the Canadian Commercial Travellers Association that \"Fine-quality toilet paper has designs that are right side up\" in the \"over\" position. In 1996, she explained the issue on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", where 68 percent of the studio audience favored \"over\"; Oprah suggested that \"under\" uses more paper. In 1998, she wrote that the issue \"seems destined to go on forever\", insisting, \"In spite of the fact that an overwhelming number of people prefer the roll hung so that the paper comes over the top, I still prefer to have the paper hanging close to the wall.\" On the day of her last column in 2002, Landers wrote, \"P.S. The toilet paper hangs over the top.\" Her published commentary on the issue has even continued after her death. 2005 saw the premiere of a one-woman play written by David Rambo: a character study of Ann Landers titled \"The Lady with All the Answers\". Toilet paper comes up once again, and the actress surveys the audience for their opinions.\n\nIn his article in \"Teaching Sociology\", Burns writes that the toilet paper hanging exercise is valuable in part because \"[the] subject matter is familiar to everybody; everyone is an expert, and everyone has an opinion.\" Many entertainers, celebrities and businesspeople have publicized their opinion on the topic. \n\nToilet paper orientation is often mentioned as a hurdle for married couples. The issue may also arise in businesses and public places.\n\nEven at the Amundsen–Scott Research Station at the South Pole, complaints have been raised over which way to install toilet paper. During the six-month-long polar night, a few dozen residents are stuck living together, and while many of the headaches of modern life are far away, food and hygiene are not. Despite the challenges posed by the hostile Antarctic climate, \"It is in the more mundane trials of everyday life that personality clashes are revealed.\"\n\nSome of the proposed solutions to this problem involve more or better technology, while others concentrate on human behavior.\n\nThe Tilt-A-Roll is a swiveling toilet paper dispenser invented by Curtis Batts in 1996, a Dallas-native industrial engineer. His patents on the invention, summarize its design as \"An adjustable angle coupling secures the yoke to the mounting assembly and permits rotation of the yoke about an axis directed orthogonally through the spindle such that the paper roll can be oriented to unroll paper either from over or from under the roll as desired.\" An inventor named Rocky Hutson demonstrated a similar device he called the T.P. Swivel to the producers of the television program \"PitchMen\" in late 2009. \n\nAnother solution is to install two toilet paper dispensers, as is more common in public restrooms and hotels. A reader of the \"Annie's Mailbox\" column recommends using a holder large enough to fit two rolls, noting that the roll mounted \"over\" is more popular. Another reader sidesteps the issue by foregoing the holder, instead piling five or six rolls in a big wicker basket. Even using separate bathrooms can help. Other solutions include vertical holders.\n\nToilet paper orientation has been used rhetorically as the ultimate issue that government has no business dictating, in letters to the editor protesting the regulation of noise pollution and stricter requirements to get a divorce. In 2006, protesting New Hampshire's ban on smoking in restaurants and bars, representative Ralph Boehm (R–Litchfield) asked \"Will we soon be told which direction the toilet paper must hang from the roll?\"\n\nDavid O'Connor's 2005 book \"Henderson's House Rules: The Official Guide to Replacing the Toilet Paper and Other Domestic Topics of Great Dispute\" aims to solve disagreements with a minimum of debate or compromise by offering authoritative, reasonable rules. The \"House Rule\" for toilet paper is \"over and out\", and a full page is dedicated to a diagram of this orientation. But O'Connor writes that \"if a female household member has a strong preference for the toilet paper to hang over and in, against the wall, that preference prevails. It is admittedly an odd preference, but women use toilet paper far more often than men—hence the rule.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47266397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47266397", "title": "Vango (online marketplace)", "text": "Vango (online marketplace)\n\nVango is an online marketplace built for independent artists to sell their original artwork and limited edition prints to experienced and first-time art buyers. Vango aims to open up the original artwork and limited edition print market to all people in the wall decor industry and to make it possible for artists to earn a great living creating art. Vango is founded and led by CEO, Ethan Appleby along with co-founders Win Raguini and Brandon Flayler. Vango was a part of 500 Startups Batch 12 run by Dave McClure in San Francisco, California. The company is funded by many investors including Foundry Group, 500 Startups, Richard A. Clark and many more.\n\nVango has a unique pricing structure that simplifies the art buying process. Each artist start selling at Tier 1; $100, $250 price point and are able to unlock higher tiers the more they sell; Tier 2 - $500, $750; Tier 3 - $1000, $1500. In addition to pricing, the company has built recommendation tools around user interactions and mobile camera technology, allowing users to find art based on the color scheme of their room, as well as virtually ‘hang’ the art on their wall through the iPad and iPhone applications.\n\nVango was selected as one of six companies to be profiled on the SyFy docu-series, ‘The Bazillion Dollar Club’ which is scheduled to air in Fall 2015.\n\nThe company was founded in August 2013 by Ethan Appleby, Win Raguini, Patrick Coughlin, and Brandon Flayler under the name Arttwo50. The company initially focused on original artworks at only $250 price point and launched with an iPad application to visualize artworks on your wall.\n\nIn May 2014 Arttwo50 was rebranded to Vango and opened up price points from $100 to $1,500. At the same time, the company launched an iPhone application and website under the rebranded name Vango.\n\nIn December 2014, Vango was accepted into 500 Startups’ 12th batch in San Francisco, California. During this batch SyFy filmed their docu-series ‘The Bazillion Dollar Club’ due to air in the Fall of 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "32883325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32883325", "title": "Waiting (Degas)", "text": "Waiting (Degas)\n\nWaiting is a pastel on paper by the French Impressionist Edgar Degas, completed between 1880–82. It is an early example of the more than 200 pastels, paintings, mixed media drawings and sculptures of ballerinas depicted by Degas from the early 1880s. This work is regarded for its vibrant colouring and steep perspective.\n\nThe ballerina series follows his earlier studies of both lower and middle class women, where he looked at the moment when they let their public face drop, and pretense gave way to an awareness of the reality of both themselves and their surrounding. With ballerinas he was primarily interested in the contrast between their beauty and grace on stage and the reality of the physical and physiological toil such artifice took on the performers. Of the more than 200 works, only 50 show the dancers performing on stage, the rest are set in rehearsals or capture fleeting, private moments like this. \"Waiting\" is an empathetic example, depicting a ballerina accompanied by her chaperone, bent over ostensibly to massage her foot but whose body language indicates a person racked with anticipation before she takes stage.\n\nThe background is formed from a wide variety of oranges, browns and blacks, while the younger woman is portrayed in pink, blue, and creamy tones which highlight her softness compared to the severity of the older woman. The work is executed with an innovative mixture of subtle (the woman's feet), slashed (the bench) and hatched (the younger woman's dress) strokes.\nDegas was taken by the peripheral world of the dancers, the rehearsals and backstage moments, a world to which he did not have access to until 1885; he only became interested in the ballet in 1870, and backstage was strictly limited to long term patrons. His removal from the moment reflected in the image is highlighted by the unusually steep perspective; the viewer seems to be positioned far above the two women; looking down as if seated in a box above the auditorium.\nDegas was aware from an early point in his studies of the exhaustion of the girls, and the extent to which they pushed the limits of their bodies for fleeting moments of elegance. He was further conscious of the brevity of a ballerina's career, and the positioning of the older chaperone–more than likely an ex-dancer herself–in this work adds to its poignancy; the younger woman representing what her forlorn looking companion once was. Degas, mindful of this, presents an interesting irony - while the young woman waits to make her entrance the older woman waits for her to leave. The tip of the chaperone's umbrella points in the direction the dancer must take; towards the stage and away from her guardian.\n\nDescribing the dichotomy of the series, Rilke wrote in 1898 of Degas' pictures of \"ballerinas full of sequined rubbish and stage lighting. They surprise us with their ugliness, these girls, whose whole life gradually descends into their legs, so that on their low, twilight brows nothing remains except a dull memory of things never known, and that will soon be lost in the acquired smile...\"\n\nThe work is jointly owned by the Norton Simon Art Foundation, Pasadena and the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42715468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42715468", "title": "Wall of the Sun and Wall of the Moon", "text": "Wall of the Sun and Wall of the Moon\n\nThe Wall of the Sun and Wall of the Moon are a pair of murals made of ceramics and designed by the Catalan artist Joan Miró for the UNESCO building in Paris. The works were carried out by the ceramicist Josep Llorens Artigas in 1955. Initially, the walls were installed on the Place de Fontenoy in Paris, but afterwards were enclosed in a building that was constructed in order to protect them from damage caused by acid rain.\n\nJoan Miró and Josep Llorens Artigas met in 1910 at the school of art of the artist Francesc Galí (1880–1965), in Barcelona. Since the 1940s, Miró and Josep Llorens Artigas started an artistic duo that spawned objects and large ceramic murals such as one at the Unesco building in Paris or the ceramic wall of the Barcelona Airport. These works fused Miró lexicon with the essential qualities of the arts of earth and fire.\n\nIn 1955 Joan Miró was contacted by the heads of UNESCO to ask if he want to take part of the team of artists that decorated the future headquarters of the institution that is located in Paris. Once agreed, they granted the exterior walls of the building conferences, two perpendicular walls of three meters high and seven meters long and fifteen, respectively. Miró proposed to make a ceramic mural in collaboration with Llorens Artigas.\n\nIn 1956, Miró began working on the mural in his studio in Palma. The following year he went to the Caves of Altamira in with Llorens Artigas inspired to carry on the work, by seeing \"the first mural in the world\". They also visit the Colegiata y Claustro de Santa Juliana and the romanesque collection of the Museum of Art of Catalonia, the current MNAC.\n\nOnce inspired, Miró moved to Gallifa, at the workshop of Artigas, to proceed to prepare the tile mural. It took 35 batches, 25 tons of wood, 4 tons of sandstone and 200 kilos of enamel. Once finished, the pieces were transported to Paris. Although he had worked in large formats, he had never done ceramics. Beside the ceramist Josep Llorens Artigas, they failed to find technical feasibility for baking pottery in a way that allows to obtain a background textures similar to the paintings of that time. It was decided that the composition was on the subjects of \"Sun\" and \"Moon\".\n\nThe two mosaic murals were assembled \"in situ\" by a team of technicians under the direct supervision of Miró and Llorens Artigas. The works were inaugurated in 1958, as same as the building, and received rave reviews. Even one of the murals, the \"Wall of the Sun\" won the Biennial Prize of Guggenheim Foundation. Miró later return to work for UNESCO, designing the UNESCO Medal for Pablo Picasso.\n\nInitially, the walls were outdoors, but later moved inside the building to protect them from damage caused by acid rain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2377307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377307", "title": "Women in heraldry", "text": "Women in heraldry\n\nDue to the differing role of women in past society, special rules grew relating to the blazoning of arms for women. The rules for women and heraldry developed differently from place to place and there is no one single rule that applies everywhere. In general, arms of women were most likely depicted not on shields but on lonzeges or ovals. Different rules exist that depend on the woman's marital status and a married woman would also often make use of her husband's arms in addition to those from her family. In both the English and the Scottish systems of heraldry these differences remain active.\n\nHeraldry has its origins from associations with warfare and the age of chivalry. The traditional shield was also associated with war and so women did not usually display familial arms on escutcheons. Rather, they could display these on various other shapes: more commonly the lozenge, an oval, or a cartouche.\n\nThe crest–a device that sits atop the shield on an armorial achievement–likewise was not accorded to heraldic devices of women as these had associations with warfare.\n\nIn many heraldic traditions, arms generally are passed patrilineally. In other nations, in Canadian heraldry for example, women may inherit arms on an equal basis with their brothers (if any). Women in Canada may also transmit their arms to their heirs, regardless of gender.\n\nIn English, Scottish and Northern Irish heraldry, a woman may bear arms by inheritance from her father or by grant to herself. When unmarried, she displays her arms on a lozenge (a diamond shape) or on an oval or oval-like shape. Traditionally, a woman does not display her arms on a shield, as the shield originated with knights and warfare, and is thus viewed as fitting for a man, but not a woman.\nA married woman may also bear either her own arms or her husband's arms alone on a shield with the shield charged with a small lozenge to distinguish her from her husband.\n\nA widowed woman usually displays the impaled arms on a lozenge-shaped shield, unless she is a heraldic heiress (see below).\n\nIf the woman is an heraldic heiress, her arms are shown on an inescutcheon of pretence, which is a small shield in the centre of her husband's arms. When widowed, instead of showing the impaled arms on a lozenge, she continues to use her marital arms, but placed on a lozenge or oval. In England and Northern Ireland, if there is more than one surviving daughter, each transmits her father's arms on equal terms. In Scotland however, only the eldest surviving daughter transmits her father's undifferenced arms to her offspring.\n\nIn Canadian heraldry, women and men are treated equally for heraldic purpose, reflecting Canadian equality laws. It is therefore common to display the arms of women on shields, rather than on a lozenge or oval, but a woman may still choose to have her arms displayed on a traditional shape.\n\nIn many systems of heraldry, the arms of each living person must be unique. English heraldry has used armorial variants to distinguish the arms of brothers from their father's arms and from each other since the thirteenth century; this is now normally done by the system of marks or \"brisures\" set up by the early Tudor herald John Writhe. Canada adds a unique series of brisures for use by female children who inherit arms. As in other heraldic systems, these cadency marks are not always used; in any case, when the heir succeeds (in Canada, the first child, whether male or female, according to strict primogeniture), the mark of cadency is removed and the heir uses the plain coat of arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "40495050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40495050", "title": "Štěpán Zavřel", "text": "Štěpán Zavřel\n\nŠtěpán Zavřel (26 December 1932 – 25 February 1999) was a Czech painter, fresco creator, graphic artist, writer and one of the most influential man in the field of the children's book illustration in the 20th century.\n\nHe lived and studied in Czechoslovakia until 1959, then he emigrated to Italy. There he studied at Accademia di Belle Arti di Roma. Afterwards he traveled through whole Europe, during this time he arranged exhibitions of his own works. In 1968 he finally settled in Rugolo, small village in the region Veneto in Italy, where he lived until his death in 1999. In 1971, he co-founded the Zurich-based publishing house Bohem Press with Otakar Božejovský. Štěpán Zavřel founded there The International School of Illustration which exists till now.\n\nIn 2009, on the tenth anniversary of his death, a collection of accounts by those who knew him was published in the Czech Republic.\n\nIn September 2011, the Museo Artistico Štěpán Zavřel of Spazio Brazzà (Udine - Italy) was established dedicated to his life and works.\n\nWanted by Štěpán's friend Corrado Pirzio-Biroli, with the approval of Zavřel's family, the museum researches on the production of the artist and catalogues his works, including the ones donated by private persons. It also contains the heredity of the family of the artist, that is more than 3.000 originals among them unpublished xylographs from the beginning of 60's, studies, pictures and films for animation cinema, advertising graphics, sketches, storyboards and original figures of all his illustrated books for children from The Magic Fish of 1964, carried out in Brazzà Castle, to his last great work, the Bible for adults and children, Mit Gott unterwegs, Die Bibel für Kinder und Erwachsene neu erzählt of 1996\n\nThe 'Centro Internazionale di Studi per la Cultura dell'Infanzia Štěpán Zavřel' of Spazio Brazzà creates and promotes cultural projects at the local level, in collaboration with other international organizations and institutions with particular attention to the picture book and the different forms of art directed to the child. The Centre in addition to doing research on the artist, in fact, promotes the planning of museum activities as a result of proposals arising from field research, in collaboration with experts in the field; among other projects the one of republishing or editing from scratch in collaboration with the historic Bohem Press publishing house founded by Štěpán Zavřel in the seventies, winning many awards and international recognitions for the environmental and the beauty of the images shown, guiding and supporting them with special projects especially aimed at schools. In 2013, the theatre performance 'Venice: Town of Hope', from Zavrel's book 'Sotto la laguna di Venezia' has been held at the prestigious Ivan's Franko National Drama Theatre in Kiev, a collaboration between the Centro Internazionale di Studi per la Cultura dell'Infanzia Štěpán Zavřel' of Spazio Brazzà, the Structural Subdivision of the German - Polish - Ukrainian Society and The Centre for Children in Need 'Our Kids' in Kiev.\n\n\n\n\n"}
