{"id": "31860815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31860815", "title": "50PLUS", "text": "50PLUS\n\nThe 50PLUS (), abbreviated to 50+, is a pensioners' interests political party in the Netherlands. The party was founded in 2009 by Maurice Koopman, Alexander Münninghoff, and Jan Nagel, a politician formerly connected to the Labour Party and Livable Netherlands. Henk Krol has been the Leader since 2016.\n\nThe party first participated in elections during the Dutch provincial elections of 2011. During these elections the party obtained 9 seats in the States-Provincial. In the Dutch Senate election of 2011 the members of the States-Provincial elected the members of the new Senate. During these elections, the party won one seat in the Senate. During the Dutch general election of 2012 the party obtained 2 seats.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCurrent members of the House of Representatives since the Dutch general election of 2017:\n\nCurrent members of the Senate since the Dutch Senate election of 2015:\n\n"}
{"id": "14509491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14509491", "title": "Acheson Report", "text": "Acheson Report\n\nThe Acheson Report, fully titled the Independent Inquiry into Inequalities in Health Report, was a report published in 1998 by a United Kingdom inquiry headed by Donald Acheson.\n\nLike earlier reports on health disparities in the United Kingdom including the Black Report and the Whitehall Study, the Acheson report demonstrates the existence of health disparities and their relationship to social class. Among the report's findings are that despite an overall downward trend in mortality from 1970–1990, the upper social classes experienced a more rapid mortality decline. The report contains 39 policy suggestions in areas ranging from taxation to agriculture, for ameliorating health disparities. It had some influence on the 1998 government green paper \"\" which had a stated aim of reducing health inequalities; and the 1999 white paper \"\".\n\nThe following were members of the inquiry:\n\nProfessor Clare Bambra in 2016 compared the report with the earlier Black Report and the later report by Michael Marmot. The Acheson report was released into a more favourable climate than either. She said that at least between 1997 and 2003, health policy across the UK reflected some of the ideas set out in the Black and Acheson Reports. There was a consistent emphasis on the need to tackle the social and economic determinants of health inequalities as well as a commitment to employing cross-cutting government policies to tackle health inequality. Most importantly, by 2004, national targets to reduce health inequalities were also introduced with a focus on life expectancy and Infant Mortality Rate. A series of initiatives were introduced - Health Action Zones, Healthy Living Centres, Health Improvement Programmes and the New Deal for Communities. But, perhaps because of these initiatives, from 2004 to 2007, public health policy moved away from social and economic determinants and instead focused more on health services and lifestyle behaviours. The health inequalities targets were abandoned across the UK in 2011. The effect of policy in reducing health inequality was modest. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "50924291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50924291", "title": "Active defense", "text": "Active defense\n\nActive defense can refer to a defensive strategy in the military or cybersecurity arena.\n\nThe Department of Defense defines active defense as: \"The employment of limited offensive action and counterattacks to deny a contested area or position to the enemy.\" This definition does not specify whether it refers to physical actions, or cyber-related actions.\n\nIn the cybersecurity arena, active defense may mean \"asymmetric defenses,\" namely defenses that increase costs to cyber-adversaries by reducing costs to cyber-defenders. For example, an active defense data protection strategy invented by CryptoMove leverages dynamic data movement, distribution, and re-encryption to make data harder to attack, steal, or destroy. Prior data protection approaches relied on encryption of data at rest, which leaves data vulnerable to attacks including stealing of ciphertext, cryptographic attack, attacks on encryption keys, destruction of encrypted data, ransomware attacks, insider attacks, and others. Three ACM computing conferences have explored Moving Target Defense as a strategy for network and application-level security as well, for instance by rotating IP addresses or dynamically changing network topologies. Production implementations of MTD are provided by companies such as Dispel for applications including legacy systems, communications, and election security.\n\nSome have defined active defenses as including of deception or honeypots, which seek to confuse attackers with traps and advanced forensics. Examples of such honeypot technologies include Illusive Networks, TrapX, Cymmetria, Attivo, and others. Other types of active defenses might include automated incident response, which attempts to tie together different response strategies in order to increase work for attackers and decrease work for defenders.\n\nRecently, the Department of Homeland Security and financial institutions have identified Active Defense as a top priority for security industrial infrastructure systems. As part of a broader push for greater resiliency, the National Institute of Standards and Technology 800-160 Volume 2 framework has gone further, providing guidance on standardization for active defense.\n\n"}
{"id": "1069136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1069136", "title": "Against medical advice", "text": "Against medical advice\n\nAgainst medical advice (AMA), sometimes known as discharge against medical advice (DAMA), is a term used in health care institutions when a patient leaves a hospital against the advice of their doctor. While leaving before a medically specified endpoint may not promote the patient's health above their other values, there is widespread ethical and legal consensus that competent patients (or their authorized surrogates) are entitled to decline recommended treatment.\n\nThe available data suggests that in general, patients discharged AMA have an increased risk of hospital readmission, and potentially death. This data however, describes groups of patients discharged AMA, and therefore should not necessarily be applied to an individual patient wishing to leave AMA, and who may have different clinical circumstances and risks.\n\nAlthough common hospital practice for an AMA discharge involves the patient being asked to sign a form stating that he or she is aware that they are leaving the facility AMA, the hospital is generally not legally required to use it. Rather, the legal and ethical requirement is that the authorized health care professional has an informed consent discussion with the patient regarding his/her choice to leave the hospital before it has been recommended. This discussion which includes disclosure of the risks, benefits, and alternatives to hospitalization, as well as the patient's understanding, should be documented in the patient's chart. Many physicians incorrectly believe that insurance denies payment for hospitalization for patients leaving AMA, leaving patients financially responsible. This \"pervasive 'medical urban legend'\" may lead to ethical problems, as it \"scare[s] patients with misleading information\" about their exposure to costs, leading to a \"breakdown in the patient–doctor relationship\" and an infringement of patient autonomy.\n\nSome authors have begun to question the wisdom of the practice of designating a discharge as AMA, as it doesn't follow professional standards, lacks evidence of its utility to improve patient care, and may harm patients by reducing their likelihood of following up. Finally, there is widespread ethical consensus that even when patients decline recommended treatment, health care professionals still have a duty to care for and support patients.\n\nThe limited research in this area has led to a stagnation in effective interventions designed to alleviate AMA discharges. Multiple retrospective studies examining AMA discharges over the last 4 decades have attempted to identify risk factors in order to develop interventions to reduce the likelihood of AMA discharges in the future. The majority of studies have identified patient risk factors for AMA discharges that included low socioeconomic status, history of drug or alcohol abuse, and male gender. No studies have yet attempted to identify physician factors that increase the risk of an AMA discharge. More research is needed to understand this practice and intervene effectively.\n\nIn the United States, the total number of stays discharged AMA increased 41 percent between 1997 and 2011. For adults ages 45-64 years, the percentage of AMA discharges increased from 27 percent in 1997 to 41 percent in 2011. By payer, the share of AMA discharges increased from 25 percent to 29 percent for Medicare and decreased from 21 percent to 16 percent for private insurance.\n\n"}
{"id": "12073251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12073251", "title": "Arms Reduction Coalition", "text": "Arms Reduction Coalition\n\nThe Arms Reduction Coalition (ARC) is a United Kingdom-based non-profit non-governmental organisation which campaigns for a reduction in the resources spent on arms and the military and for those resources to be divereted to programmes that benefit humanity and the earth; such as poverty reduction, sustainable development, protecting the vulnerable, systems for peaceful Conflict resolution and maintaining the environment.\n\nThe Arms Reduction Coalition (ARC) is a calling for the United Nations (UN) to agree a legally binding instrument requiring United Nations member states to reduce the amount of resources spent on arms by between 1 and 5 percent per year for a period of 10 to 25 years. This is based on Article 26 of the United Nations Charter which states \"\"In order to promote the establishment and maintenance of international peace and security with the least diversion for armaments of the world’s human and economic resources, the UN Security Council shall be responsible for formulating…, plans to be submitted to the Members of the United Nations for the establishment of a system for the regulation of Armaments\".\"\n\nARC was formally launched at a meeting organised by Action for UN Renewal on 7 May 2002 at the House of Commons in London.\n\nARC campaigns to encourage the states of the United Nations to 'Implement Article 26 of the UN Charter' by reducing the diversion for armaments of the world's human and economic resources by a set percentage each year. This policy is or has been advocated by other organisations such as the International Peace Bureau, World Bank, some members of the United Nations (such as France in 1955, The Soviet Union in 1956, Brazil in 1964, by Romania in 1975 and 1977 and Senegal in 1978) and The General Assembly (in 1973 as Resolution 3093); usually under the principle of Disarmanent for Development . The idea can be traced back to 1955 when the French Prime Minister Edgar Faure tabled a plan at a meeting of the UN Disarmament Commission; proposing the \"progressive reduction of military expenditures and the potential reallocation of the resources thus released to tasks of 'development' and 'mutual assistance' in order to improve the standard of living of the developing countries\".\n\nARC's Patrons include Dennis Haliday, Bruce Kent, Peter Archer, Baron Archer of Sandwell, Alice Mahon, Federico Mayor Zaragoza, Linda Melvern.\n\nIndividuals and organisations from around the world are encouraged to join ARC by endorsing the ARC Resolution or becoming a member. Organisations from all continents have endorsed the ARC resolution . Similar resolutions have been adopted by other groups such as United Nations Association UK, The Hague Agenda for Peace and Justice for the 21st Century, German Party of Democratic Socialism and Greenpeace.\n\nARC's campaign is driven by this United Nations style resolution. Supporters and members are requested endorse this resolution.\n\nThe Arms Reduction Coalition (ARC):\n\n\"Concerned by the obstacles, threats and difficulties that the large amounts of arms in circulation pose to the maintenance of peace and security and to Non-Governmental Organisations and UN departments in carrying out their work;\n\nConcerned by the disproportionately large amount of the world’s human and economic resources being expended on arms;\n\nRecalling that Article 26 of the United Nations (UN) Charter calls for \"the least diversion for Armaments of the world’s human and economic resources\";\n\nCalls upon the United Nations General assembly, to agree, and for all signatory States of The United Nations to ratify, a legally binding instrument:\n\n\nSome publications distributed by ARC (under the Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike licence) include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18873451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18873451", "title": "Auditor General's Department (Sri Lanka)", "text": "Auditor General's Department (Sri Lanka)\n\nThe Auditor General's Department (Sinhala: විගණකාධිපති දෙපාර්තමේන්තුව \"viganakādhipathi depārthamēnthuwa\") is a non-ministerial government department in Sri Lanka. Established in 1799, it is one of the oldest government departments in the country, and is responsible for auditing public organisations. These include all departments of Government, the Offices of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Judicial Service Commission, the Public Service Commission, the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, the Secretary-General of Parliament and the Commissioner of Elections, local authorities, public corporations and business or other undertakings vested in the Government under any written law. \n\nThe head of the department is the Auditor General of Sri Lanka, currently Gamini Wijesinghe.\n\n"}
{"id": "9280785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9280785", "title": "Augustin Diamacoune Senghor", "text": "Augustin Diamacoune Senghor\n\nFather Augustin Diamacoune Senghor (4 April 1928 – 13 January 2007) was a Roman Catholic priest and a leading figure in the Casamance independence movement (see Casamance Conflict) from Senegal. He served as director of the Saint-Louis of Ziguinchor Seminary (Séminaire Saint-Louis de Ziguinchor) from 1972 until 1975.\n\nSenghor was born in Senghalène, Casamance, Senegal in 1928. His father, Mathieu Diamacoune Senghor, a Serer, was one of the founding members and active militants of the Senegalese Democratic Bloc (French: \"Bloc Démocratique Sénégalais\" (BDS)) of President Senghor. His mother, Marthe Badiate is a Jola. \n\nAfter spending five years in a Senegalese prison, Senghor became the leader of the Movement of Democratic Forces in Casamance (MFDC), Casamance's main rebel movement.\n\nSenghor signed a peace agreement with the government of Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade in 2004. However, several factions of the MFDC refused to participate in the peace deal and continued their fighting. This division has deeply divided Casamance's independence movement.\n\nAnalysts say that the death of Father Senghor may make reaching a permanent peace deal in Casamance much more difficult. The Senegalese government will need to find a new head of the rebel and separatist movement to negotiate with in Senghor's place. However, this will not be easy, as the separatist movement has splintered into rival factions since the 2004 peace agreement. Incidents of violence has also increased in 2006. In late December 2006, the president of the Ziguinchor regional council was assassinated. The Senegalese government blamed Casamance's rebels.\n\nBorn on April 4th, 1928 Father Augustin Diamacoune Senghor would go on to be an influential person in the Casamance conflict. In 1967, Diamacoune started speaking on the topic of Casamance independence. In 1978, he published a booklet outlining the many injustices that the people of Casamance had suffered as a result of the Senegalese government. Father Diamacoune began to get more heavily involved in raising awareness of the Casamance conflict from 1980-1981. During this time, Diamacoune held conferences, wrote letters to the Senegalese authorities, and distributed pamphlets. Father Diamacoune was quickly recognized as a leading figure in the movement for Casamance independence, and in 1984, after a series of protests in Ziguinchor, he was arrested and sentenced to 10 years for violating territorial integrity (Ag Mohamed and Humphreys, 2005). Approximately halfway through his 10-year sentence, Diamacoune was granted amnesty by President Diouf because the aggressive military action taken by the Senegalese government in response to the MFDC was not working and Diouf wanted to try negotiating a peace accord. Diamacoune went on to serve a total of 5 years in prison between 1984-1991, but was released early on May 31st, 1991, after Sidi Badji signed a ceasefire agreement with Senegalese Defence Minister Medoune (Fall, 2010).\n\nDiamacoune promptly withdrew underground and retreated to Guinea Bissau. However, Father Diamacoune was still recognized as the leading figure in the MFDC, and in attempt to quell increasing violence from the MFDC, the Senegalese government pressured the government of Guinea Bissau to return Diamacoune. On March 19th, 1993, Diamacoune was returned to Senegal and was greeted by a peace march in Ziguinchor consisting of around 10,000 people, organized by various civic groups. On April 8th, 1993, Father Diamacoune broadcast a ceasefire appeal to all of Senegal, then went on to sign a ceasefire accord with the Senegalese government in Ziguinchor on July 8th, 1993. However, after an escalation in the Casamance conflict, due in part to the MFDC's acquisition of more advanced weapons, Diamacoune was placed under house arrest on April 21st, 1995. \n\nA year later, in September 1996, Father Diamacoune accomplished what had previously seemed to be unconceivable as he successfully reunited the front nord through rapprochement with Sidy Badji. Because of the reunion of the two branches, the front nord had a much more impactful voice in peace negotiations. Looking to seize upon the new opportunity, Diamacoune proposed peace negotiations between the MFDC and the Senegalese government. He suggested holding the negotiations in Paris in 1997, but the Senegalese government declined the proposition. In January 1999 in Ziguinchor, Father Diamacoune went on to meet with President Diouf for the first time ever. After the meeting, President Diouf addressed the Casamance people and urged them to forgive the Senegalese government, and to think about reconciliation (Fall, 2010). A period of peace was ushered in, characterized by peaceful marches under the leadership of women and religious leaders.\nHowever, Diouf lost the 2000 presidential elections and was succeeded by President Wade. In September 2001, for the first time since the beginning of the conflict, the leader of the MFDC was invited to meet the Senegalese president in his palace. The meeting between Father Diamacoune and President Wade resulted in increased economic activities in Casamance under the Programme de Reconstruction Economique et Sociale de la Casamance. As president of the MFDC, Diamacoune declared that the MFDC had obtained a state of satisfaction, and that there was no more reason to fight (Marut, 2004). The last peace accord between the MFDC and the Senegalese government was signed in December 2004.\n\nFather Augustin Diamacoune Senghor passed away on January 13th, 2007, in Val-de-Grâce Military Hospital, Paris, France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21507777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21507777", "title": "Berlin Rules on Water Resources", "text": "Berlin Rules on Water Resources\n\nThe Berlin Rules on Water Resources is a document adopted by the International Law Association (ILA) to summarize international law customarily applied in modern times to freshwater resources, whether within a nation or crossing international boundaries. Adopted on August 21, 2004, in Berlin, the document supersedes the ILA's earlier \"The Helsinki Rules on the Uses of the Waters of International Rivers\", which was limited in its scope to international drainage basins and aquifers connected to them.\n\nIn 1966, the ILA adopted \"The Helsinki Rules on the Uses of the Waters of International Rivers\", an unenforceable guideline governing the usage of rivers and connected groundwaters that crossed national boundaries. As the guideline did not address other aquifers, various other guidelines were subsequently drafted and adopted by other organizations to replace or supplement them, including the United Nations' \"Convention on the Law of Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses\" and the ILA's own \"Rules on International Groundwaters.\" However, these documents were restricted to addressing international waters. In 1996, the ILA appointed Joseph Dellapenna to produce a compilation of water related laws, following the production of which in 1997 it decided to create a comprehensive document, addressing all freshwater resources as well as issues affecting the climate that impacts them.\n\nThe document requires that nations take appropriate steps to sustain and manage water resources, in conjunction with other resources, and minimize environmental harm. In addition to setting out various regulations for nations to follow with respect to water within their boundaries and water they may share, it regulates behavior in wartime, including damage to water installations such as dams and dikes. Nations are not permitted to take action that may result in a shortage of life-sustaining water for civilians, unless a nation being invaded is compelled by military emergency to disable its \"own\" water supply, or that may cause undue ecological damage. Poisoning water necessary for survival is in all cases forbidden.\n\nWhere water resources are internationally shared, it regulates equitable use with reasonable consideration of such factors as past customary usages of the resource and balancing variant needs and demands of all bordering nations. It mandates that the first consideration in weighing needs is satisfying the requirements of human beings for water to sustain life. It requires that nations sharing water make reasonable efforts not to cause harm to one another by the ways in which the water is used. It permits free navigation by all nations sharing a water system, although it allows reasonable restriction by a nation of water navigation within its jurisdiction for security. Nations are expected to work together as needed to sustain shared water resources.\n\nThe document requires a reasonable openness to the international community of information related to water resources and their usage, particularly in those cases where nations sharing a water resource may be impacted. Except in cases of emergency, usage that may significantly impact others should be discussed in advance with all interested nations, with disagreements resolved by appeal as necessary to international governing committees. \n\nRegardless of the location of water, and whether or not a water resource is shared, it asserts the right of every individual to equally access water to sustain life without discrimination, even in times of war. It requires states to enable their citizens to participate in decisions affecting water access by providing reasonable information about the water resource and plans impacting it. It also mandates the compensation of those who are displaced in the interests of securing water preservation. It requires that nations be mindful of the environmental factors that affect water resources and preserve them appropriately, such as by preventing water pollution and preserving native ecosystems, even if they are occupying foreign territory during a time of war. It requires appropriate measures to address flooding and drought, both in communicating quickly about these to nations sharing a water resource and in working to eliminate or prevent harm to a water resource and the population dependent on it.\n\nThe Berlin Rules on Water Resources provides that nations must enforce its provisions through local legislation and also submit to international review as necessary to ensure that they are compliant.\n\n"}
{"id": "15550610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15550610", "title": "Capitalist state", "text": "Capitalist state\n\nThe capitalist state is the state, its functions, and the form of organization it takes within capitalist socioeconomic systems. This concept is often used interchangeably with the concept of the \"modern state\"; however there are many differences in sociological characteristics among capitalist states, despite their common functions.\n\nThe primary functions of the capitalist state are to provide a legal framework and infrastructural framework that is conducive to business enterprise and the accumulation of capital. Different normative theories exist on the necessary and appropriate function of the state in a capitalist economy, with proponents of laissez-faire favoring a state limited to the provision of public goods and safeguarding private property rights, while proponents of interventionism stress the importance of regulation, intervention and economic stabilization in providing the framework for the accumulation of capital and business.\n\nFor Karl Marx the capitalist state is understood to be a reflection of the economic base, with its chief function reflecting the needs of the capitalist economy. This involves creating the legal and infrastructural framework - the superstructure - that facilitates capitalism, as well as balancing the needs of the various classes to ensure the perpetuation of capitalism. This often involves attempts to safeguard state policy from being used to benefit specific capitalists or firms at the expense of the bourgeoisie as a whole. Karl Marx hence described the function of the executive of a capitalist state as \"nothing but a committee for managing the common affairs of the whole bourgeoisie\". Specifically, in Marx's view, the capitalist state necessarily exists to serve the interests of capitalists (referred to as \"the bourgeoisie\"), not as a defect but as a necessary feature of capitalism. Thus thinkers in the Marxist tradition often refer to the capitalist state as the \"Dictatorship of the bourgeoisie\". Thinkers in the Instrumental Marxist tradition stress the role of policymakers and political elites sharing a common business or class background, leading to their decisions reflecting their class interest. This is differentiated from more contemporary notions of state capture by specific business interests for the benefit of those specific businesses and not the ruling class or capitalist system as a whole, which is variously referred to as crony capitalism or \"Corporatocracy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51575148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51575148", "title": "Change Britain", "text": "Change Britain\n\nChange Britain is a pressure group in the United Kingdom set up by leaders of the Vote Leave campaign after the 2016 Referendum, in which 51.9% of participating voters voted in favour of leaving the European Union. Its stated aim is \"to campaign for a Brexit which takes back control of our laws, borders, money and trade\".\n\nChange Britain was founded as a successor to the Vote Leave campaign, with support from many of its key figureheads including Labour MP Gisela Stuart (Chair) and Conservative MP and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson. The group had attracted criticism for seemingly dropping Vote Leave's pledge to increase spending on the National Health Service (NHS), but chairwoman of both organisations, Gisela Stuart, reaffirmed this pledge in a speech to the House of Commons.\n\n"}
{"id": "343044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343044", "title": "Chief operating officer", "text": "Chief operating officer\n\nThe chief operating officer (COO), also called the chief operations officer, is one of the highest-ranking executive positions in an organization, comprising part of the \"C-Suite\". The COO is responsible for the daily operation of the company, and routinely reports to the highest-ranking executive, usually the chief executive officer (CEO).\n\nThe COO is usually the second in command at the firm, especially if the highest-ranking executive is the Chairman and CEO.\n\nUnlike other C-Suite positions, which tend to be defined according to commonly designated responsibilities across most companies, the COO job tends to be defined in relation to the specific CEO with whom they work, given the close working relationship of these two individuals. In many ways, the selection of a COO is similar to the selection of a Vice President or Chief of Staff of the United States: power and responsibility structures vary in government and private regimes depending on the style and needs of the President or CEO. Thus, the COO role meets individual expectations and changes as leadership teams adjust.\n\nIn a similar vein to the COO, the title of corporate President as a separate position (as opposed to being combined with a \"C-Suite\" designation, such as \"President and CEO\" or \"President and COO\") is also loosely defined. The President is usually the legally recognized highest rank of corporate officer, ranking above the various Vice Presidents (including Senior Vice President and Executive Vice President), but on its own generally considered subordinate, in practice, to the CEO. \n\nLloyd E. Reuss was President of General Motors from 1990 to 1992, as the right-hand man of Chairman and CEO Robert C. Stempel. Stempel insisted on naming Reuss as company president in charge of North American operations, the board reluctantly agreed but showed their displeasure by not giving Reuss the title of COO.\n\nRichard D. Parsons was number two in the company hierarchy during his tenure as President of Time Warner from 1995 to 2001, but he had no authority over the operating divisions, and instead took on assignments at the behest of Chairman and CEO Gerald Levin.\n\nMichael Capellas was appointed President of Hewlett-Packard in order to ease its acquisition and integration of Compaq, where Capellas was previously Chairman and CEO. Capellas ended up serving just six months as HP president before departing. His former role of president was not filled as the executives who reported to him then reported directly to the CEO.\n\nIn 2007, the investment banking firms of Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley each had two presidents (Warren Spector and Alan Schwartz at Bear, Robert Scully and Zoe Cruz at Morgan) reporting to one CEO (who was also chairman of the board); each president was essentially a co-COO (despite the lack of title) overseeing half of the firm's business divisions. Schwartz became sole president of Bear after Spector was ousted, and several months later assumed the position of CEO as well when James Cayne was forced to resign (Cayne remained chairman).\n\nTom Anselmi of Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment was Chief Operating Officer from 2004 until September 6, 2013. Between the departure of Richard Peddie and the hiring of Tim Leiweke for the posts of President and CEO, Anselmi added the title of President from September 4, 2012 to June 30, 2013, however he remained COO and did not receive the title of CEO.\n\nRichard Fuld, the chairman and CEO of Lehman Brothers, had a succession of \"number twos\" under him, usually titled as President and Chief Operating Officer. Chris Pettit was Fuld's second-in-command for two decades until November 26, 1996, when he resigned as President and board member. Pettit lost a power struggle with his deputies (Steve Lessing, Tom Tucker, and Joseph M. Gregory) on March 15 that year that caused him to relinquish its COO title, likely brought about after the three men found about Pettit's extramarital affairs, which violated Fuld's unwritten rules on marriage and social etiquette. Bradley Jack and Joseph M. Gregory were appointed co-COOs in 2002, but Jack was demoted to the Office of the Chairman in May 2004 and departed in June 2005 with a severance package of $80 million, making Gregory the sole COO. While Fuld was considered the \"face\" of Lehman brothers, Gregory was in charge of day-to-day operations and he influenced culture to drive the bottom line. Gregory was demoted on June 12, 2008 and replaced as President and COO by Bart McDade, who had been serving as head of Equities, and McDade would see Lehman through bankruptcy.\n\nThomas W. LaSorda served as President and CEO of Chrysler from January 1, 2006 to August 5, 2007 while Chrysler was owned by Daimler-Benz. When Cerberus Capital bought majority control of Chrysler, Bob Nardelli was appointed Chairman and CEO of Chrysler while LaSorda became Vice Chairman and President. Despite the appointment of a second Vice Chairman and President, Jim Press, LaSorda stayed on. LaSorda's titles as Vice Chairman and President officially stated that he was in charge of manufacturing, procurement and supply, employee relations, global business development and alliances. However, LaSorda's actual role was to find a new partner or buyer for Chrysler, leading to speculation that Cerberus Capital was less interested in rebuilding the auto manufacturer than it was to turning profit though a leveraged buyout.\n\nResearch in Motion's corporate structure had more than one COO, including Jim Rowan as chief operating officer for global operations, and Thorsten Heins as COO of products and sales.\n\nThe Walt Disney Company has used the President and COO titles in varied ways for their number two executive. Ron W. Miller was President from 1978 to 1984, while serving additionally as CEO for 18 months from 1983 to 84. Frank Wells was President from 1984 to 1994, where he reported to the board of directors and not Chairman and CEO Michael Eisner. When Wells died in a helicopter crash, no replacement President was named as his duties were resumed by Eisner. Michael Ovitz was President from 1995 to 1997, being hired by Eisner and then dismissed not long afterwards. Bob Iger was President and COO from 2000 to 2005, when he succeeded Eisner as CEO. Thomas O. Staggs was COO from 2015 to 2016, during that time the senior executive team had a dual reporting structure to both Staggs and Iger; Staggs resigned after the board did not give him assurances that he would succeed as CEO.\n\nManulife has used the President and COO titles for separate roles. From June 5 until September 30, 2017, Rocco \"Roy\" Gori served as President where he oversaw Manulife's global operating businesses, with his subordinates being the general managers of the Canadian, U.S., and Asia Divisions, and the Chief Investment Officer. Gori reported to Chief Executive Officer Donald Guloien before additionally assuming the title of CEO on October 1, 2017 upon Guloien's retirement. Linda Mantia, the Chief Operating Officer, reported to the President on Corporate Strategy while continuing to report to the CEO on all other matters including Corporate Development, Analytics, Technology, Marketing, Innovation, Human Resources, Regulatory and Public Affairs, Global Resourcing and Procurement, and the Global Program Office.\n\nSome modern companies operate without a COO. For example, in 2007 almost 58% of Fortune 500 companies did not have a COO. In these instances the CEO either takes on more roles and responsibilities, or the roles traditionally assigned to the COO are carried out by sub C-Suite executives. Although the number of COOs has been in decline for the past 10 years, there are reasons to anticipate an increased utilization of the position in the future, including:\n\nThe role of the COO differs from industry to industry and from organization to organization. Some organizations function without a COO. Others may have two COOs, each assigned to oversee several business lines or divisions, such as Lehman Brothers from 2002 to 2004 when Bradley Jack and Joseph M. Gregory were the co-COOs. A COO could also be brought in from other organizations as a \"fixer,\" such as Daniel J. O'Neill who in 1999 joined Molson in that capacity.\n\nIn the manufacturing sector, the primary role of the COO is routinely one of operations management, meaning that the COO is responsible for the development, design, operation, and improvement of the systems that create and deliver the firm's products. The COO is responsible for ensuring that business operations are efficient and effective and that the proper management of resources, distribution of goods and services to customers and analysis of queue systems is conducted.\n\nDespite the functional diversity associated with the role of COO, there are some common functions the COOs usually perform:\n\nRoutinely in large organizations the COO will be the heir apparent to the CEO. Individuals may have worked their way (internally) up the company ladder before being named COO, or may have been recruited from an outside company. Either way, the position is used as a training and testing ground for the next CEO.\n\nA 2003 Crist Associates study revealed that only 17% of companies that promote a COO to a CEO replace the COO within the next year.\n\nAn Accenture study found that approximately one in nine COOs moved into the CEO's shoes within a year of their departure and that half of COOs see themselves as the \"heir apparent.\" COOs transitioning into the CEO role often face similar challenges including:\n\nAccording to researchers Miles and Bennett, just knowing these common pitfalls can help a COO \"heir\" better prepare for the transition, thereby avoiding them in totality or ensuring that at least they do not evolve into full derailers once they are in the CEO seat.\n\nBecause the COO is often responsible for serving as an information conduit to the CEO, it is essential that the relationship between COO and CEO be a positive one. Trust is the most important ingredient necessary for a CEO-COO relationship to thrive. The CEO must have full confidence that the COO is not making direct passes for their job, can get the work done, and shares their vision (rather than using their trusted spot and access to information to undermine the CEO's strategy or implement his/her own vision). When a relationship built upon trust is created between the CEO and COO, firm performance is improved and shareholder results are strengthened. Seven strategies that are key to building trust in the CEO-COO relationship include:\n\n\nIn addition to having a strong and trusting relationship with the CEO, the COO should also have an effective relationship with the board. A good relationship between COO and the board allows the board to better understand and independently judge a potential successor. A strong relationship between the board and the COO also offers the board an additional expert opinion on the health of the company, and status of key initiatives. It benefits the CEO to allow such a relationship to form because it reflects confidence and fosters transparency. It also reinforces that the CEO is capable of developing talent, and helps the CEO to retain the COO by further empowering the individual. A strong relationship benefits the COOs in that they are able to expand their experience as well as their professional network. Additionally, if they are looking to be the next CEO, it allows them to develop credibility with the board. Researchers advise the COO to go beyond simply presenting at board meetings, to ensure they are developing strong one-on-one relationships with each board director. Researchers also urge the COO to develop his or her own voice, independent of the CEO.\n\nAny breakdown in trust between the CEO and COO can lead to failure. Additionally, the COO typically has to be a high-level leader who is comfortable being fully in charge. Many executives with the leadership skills necessary to be a top-level COO would prefer to be running their own organization as opposed to taking orders from a CEO. For COOs who are expecting to serve their time and be promoted to the top spot, their timelines for such a move can often be out of sync with the CEOs, causing a breakdown in the relationship. COOs can also find themselves trapped into being labeled an \"operations\" person or a \"Number 2\" as opposed to being seen as a strategic and top-level leader by the Board of Directors, which causes some executives to steer clear of the position. Harry Levinson, Ph.D., effectively summarized the challenges of the COO position: \"The relationship between the chief executive officer and the chief operating officer in any organization is fraught with many psychological complexities. Perhaps it is the most difficult of all organizational working relationships because more than others, it is a balancing act on the threshold of power.\"\n\nNathan Bennett and Stephen A. Miles have published extensively on the subject of the COO. In addition to writing a book dedicated to analyzing this hard-to-understand position, their research has been published in the \"Harvard Business Review\", \"MIT Management Review\" and Chief Executive.net. Their work focuses on identifying different types of COOs, when the role works to deliver additional value, and when the role fails to produce the desired results. Their research includes interviews with more than a hundred CEOs and COOs on the topic.\n"}
{"id": "801413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=801413", "title": "Democratic Coalition (Hungary)", "text": "Democratic Coalition (Hungary)\n\nThe Democratic Coalition (, DK) is a social liberal political party in Hungary led by former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány. Founded in 2010 as a faction within the Socialist Party (MSZP), the Democratic Coalition split from the MSZP on 22 October 2011 and became a separate party. It has four MPs in the National Assembly and two MEPs in the European Parliament.\n\nOn 5 October 2010, Ferenc Gyurcsány announced to the Socialist Party (MSZP) party executive that he was founding a platform named the Democratic Coalition within the party. He stated that he would organize \"a broad, open social community for 1989 Democrats\", and political representation for them. The mood at the meeting was calm, but several party officials expressed disagreement with him. The plan, however, pushed through.\n\nThe Democratic Coalition held its inaugural meeting at 2 p.m. in the Szent István Park in the 13th District on 22 October 2010. Meanwhile, MSZP deputy chairman András Balogh told newspaper \"Népszava\" that the party performed poorly at the elections due to several mistakes which included incompetence of Gyurcsány's while in government, the abandonment of left-wing values, complacency, and the fact that Gyurcsány was involved in corruption. The former prime minister's group became the MSZP's seventh platform.\n\nThe platforms within the MSZP held a debate in May 2011 on whether the party should develop as an alliance between left-wing groups or a collective party welcoming non-leftist groups and politicians – a broader alternative to the ruling party Fidesz. The latter idea was only supported by the Democratic Coalition Platform. Representatives from all seven platforms of the party agreed that the Socialists did not need a \"chieftain\", an \"Orbán of the Left\", but a team leader. This was according to István Hiller, the head of the Social Democratic Platform, in an interview with reporters during a break of the meeting. He dismissed Gyurcsány's idea of embracing liberal and conservative trends, stating that Gyurcsány's model would make the party dysfunctional.\n\nOn 22 October 2011, Gyurcsány announced he was leaving the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) and would set up a new parliamentary group after persuading the necessary number of lawmakers to join him. The new Democratic Coalition party was to be a \"Western, Left-wing\" formation with ten lawmakers. Gyurcsány announced on the first anniversary of the founding of its forerunner, the Democratic Coalition Platform. He stated that he had decided to leave the MSZP because the party had failed in its efforts to transform itself. Socialist representatives strongly condemned Gyurcsány, who had signed a pledge to stay on in the party the previous week. In his speech Gyurcsány branded the new constitution as \"illegitimate\" and insisted that members and heads of the independent branches of state such as the constitutional court and the public prosecutor \"exclusively serve Viktor Orbán\".\n\nThe former Democratic Party (\"Demokrata Párt\") changed its name to Democratic Coalition (DK) and elected Gyurcsány its leader on 6 November 2011. At a press conference, Gyurcsány announced that the renewed party had elected Tamás Bauer, József Debreczeni, Csaba Molnár and Péter Niedermüller as deputy chairmen. The announcement stated that DK would be Hungary's \"most democratic party\" with all the members electing its officials directly at the party congress, adding that the authority of each member in the party's 12-strong presidium and the chairman itself will be virtually the same. The new party initially received over 3,800 membership applications.\n\nThe Democratic Coalition was not allowed to form a new party faction until the spring after leaving the MSZP, based on the parliament's Constitutional and Procedural Committee decision on 7 November 2011. According to the parliamentary rules, any parliamentarian that leaves or is expelled from a party faction must sit as an independent candidate for six months before joining another faction. However, in April 2012, ruling party Fidesz approved new House rules which required that 12 MPs – rather than 10 as per previous rules – were needed to form a faction, thus blocking DK from forming a parliamentary group. Gyurcsány described this as \"petty revenge on the part of the prime minister.\" Csaba Molnár said they might take the matter to the Constitutional Court and European forums.\n\nIn September 2013, the MSZP declined to sign an election deal with DK and Gábor Fodor's Hungarian Liberal Party because both parties presented excessive expectations in proportion to their electoral support. Attila Mesterházy told a forum held at the party headquarters, broadcast by commercial news channel ATV, that in order to win the next year's election, the MSZP need to win over uncertain voters. He added that the party board decided that running with Gyurcsány would keep uncertain voters away. Gyurcsány said the MSZP had instead proposed alliances of four rather than nine constituencies, all of which were impossible to win. In addition, they offered every 25th place on their party list and would have banned Gyurcsány himself from running either individually or on a list. Another request was that DK should not present a platform of its own. The party could not accept these conditions, the politician said.\n\nOn 14 January 2014, centre-left opposition parties agreed to submit a joint list for the spring 2014 general election. The list was headed by MSZP leader Attila Mesterházy, the centre-left alliance's candidate for Prime Minister. Mesterházy was followed by Gordon Bajnai (Together 2014) as second and Ferenc Gyurcsány as third. Liberal leader Gábor Fodor was entered at fourth place and co-leader of the E14-PM alliance and the Dialogue for Hungary (PM). Tímea Szabó was entered at fifth place on the joint list of the MSZP, E2014-PM, DK, and Liberals. The Hungarian Liberal Party also received two additional places (56th and 58th) on the list.\n\nIn the 2014 European election, DK received 9.76% of the vote, and had two MEPs returned. On 26 May 2014, Csaba Molnar announced that DK had applied to join the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats.\n\nParty leader and former Prime Minister of Hungary Ferenc Gyurcsány is a supporter of Third Way politics. The party platform also adopted elements of social liberalism and strongly pro-European.\n\n As part of the Unity alliance; DK ran together with Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP), Together 2014 (E14), Dialogue for Hungary (PM) and Hungarian Liberal Party (MLP).\n Joint list with Hungarian Socialist Party, Hungarian Liberal Party, Together 2014 and the Dialogue for Hungary\n\n"}
{"id": "41452349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41452349", "title": "Dick Oosting", "text": "Dick Oosting\n\nDick Oosting (born June 1946) is a Dutch human rights lawyer and activist. He headed Amnesty International's EU Office and is currently the CEO of the European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR).\n\nIn the mid-1970s he coordinated Amnesty International’s first worldwide campaign against torture (an activity highlighted in Amnesty’s Nobel Peace Prize citation in 1977). He then served five years as Amnesty’s Deputy Secretary General and returned to the Netherlands to head its Dutch national section. From 1999 he spent eight years in Brussels leading Amnesty’s EU office.\n\nDick Oosting managed the Europe programme of the International Center for Transitional Justice, managing programmes in the former Yugoslavia, Cyprus and Afghanistan. Dick has been on high level human rights missions to Africa, Asia and the Middle East.\n\nHe joined the European Council on Foreign Relations in 2010 and has been its CEO until 2016. He is a now a member of the Council of ECFR.\n"}
{"id": "28141903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28141903", "title": "Feminist movements and ideologies", "text": "Feminist movements and ideologies\n\nA variety of movements of feminist ideology have developed over the years. They vary in goals, strategies, and affiliations. They often overlap, and some feminists identify themselves with several branches of feminist thought.\n\nJudith Lorber distinguishes between three broad kinds of feminist discourses: \"gender reform feminisms\", \"gender resistant feminisms\", and \"gender revolution feminisms\". In her typology, \"gender reform feminisms\" are rooted in the political philosophy of liberalism with its emphasis on individual rights. \"Gender resistant feminisms\" focus on specific behaviors and group dynamics through which women are kept in a subordinate position, even in subcultures which claim to support gender equality. \"Gender revolution feminisms\" seek to disrupt the social order through deconstructing its concepts and categories and analyzing the cultural reproduction of inequalities.\n\n\"Mainstream feminism\" as a general term identifies feminist ideologies and movements which do not fall into either the socialist or radical feminist camps. The mainstream feminist movement traditionally focused on political and legal reform, and has its roots in first-wave feminism and in the historical liberal feminism of the 19th and early-20th centuries. In 2017, Angela Davis referred to mainstream feminism as \"bourgeois feminism\".\n\nThe term is today often used by essayists and cultural analysts in reference to a movement made palatable to a general audience by celebrity supporters like Taylor Swift. Mainstream feminism is often derisively referred to as \"white feminism,\" a term implying that mainstream feminists don't fight for intersectionality with race, class, and sexuality.\n\nMainstream feminism has also been accused of being commercialized, and of focusing exclusively on issues that are less contentious in the western world , such as women's political participation or female education access. Radical feminists sometimes criticize mainstream feminists as part of \"a system of patriarchy\". Nevertheless, major milestones of the feminist struggle—such as the right to vote and the right to education—came about mainly as a result of the work of the mainstream feminist movement, which emphasized building far-reaching support for feminist causes among both men and women.\n\nAnarcha-feminism (also called anarchist feminism and anarcho-feminism) combines anarchism with feminism. It generally views patriarchy as a manifestation of involuntary hierarchy. Anarcha-feminists believe that the struggle against patriarchy is an essential part of class struggle and of the anarchist struggle against the state. In essence, the philosophy sees anarchist struggle as a necessary component of feminist struggle and vice versa. As L. Susan Brown puts it, \"as anarchism is a political philosophy that opposes all relationships of power, it is inherently feminist\".\n\nImportant historic anarcha-feminists include Emma Goldman, Federica Montseny, Voltairine de Cleyre, Maria Lacerda de Moura, and Lucy Parsons. In the Spanish Civil War, an anarcha-feminist group, Mujeres Libres (\"Free Women\"), linked to the Federación Anarquista Ibérica, organized to defend both anarchist and feminist ideas.\n\nContemporary anarcha-feminist writers/theorists include Germaine Greer, L. Susan Brown, and the eco-feminist Starhawk. Contemporary anarcha-feminist groups include Bolivia's Mujeres Creando, Radical Cheerleaders, the Spanish anarcha-feminist squat La Eskalera Karakola, and the annual La Rivolta! conference in Boston.\n\nBlack feminism argues that sexism, class oppression, and racism are inextricably bound together. Forms of feminism that strive to overcome sexism and class oppression but ignore race can discriminate against many people, including women, through racial bias. The National Black Feminist Organization (NBFO) was founded in 1973 by Florynce Kennedy, Margaret Sloan, and Doris Wright, and according to Wright it, \"more than any other organization in the century launched a frontal assault on sexism and racism\". The NBFO also helped inspire the founding of the Boston-based organization the Combahee River Collective in 1974 which not only led the way for crucial antiracist activism in Boston through the decade, but also provided a blueprint for Black feminism that still stands a quarter of a century later. Combahee member Barbara Smith’s definition of feminism that still remains a model today states that, \"feminism is the political theory and practice to free all women: women of color, working-class women, poor women, physically challenged women, lesbians, old women, as well as white economically privileged heterosexual women. Anything less than this is not feminism, but merely female self-aggrandizement.\" The Combahee River Collective argued in 1974 that the liberation of black women entails freedom for all people, since it would require the end of racism, sexism, and class oppression. One of the theories that evolved out of this movement was Alice Walker's womanism. It emerged after the early feminist movements that were led specifically by white women, were largely white middle-class movements, and had generally ignored oppression based on racism and classism. Alice Walker and other womanists pointed out that black women experienced a different and more intense kind of oppression from that of white women.\n\nAngela Davis was one of the first people who articulated an argument centered around the intersection of race, gender, and class in her book, \"Women, Race, and Class\" (1981)\".\" Kimberle Crenshaw, a prominent feminist law theorist, gave the idea the name intersectionality in the late 1980s as part of her work in anti-discrimination law, as part of describing the effects of compound discrimination against black women.\n\nCultural feminism is the ideology of a \"female nature\" or \"female essence\" that attempts to revalidate what they consider undervalued female attributes. It emphasizes the difference between women and men but considers that difference to be psychological, and to be culturally constructed rather than biologically innate. Its critics assert that, because it is based on an essentialist view of the differences between women and men and advocates independence and institution building, it has led feminists to retreat from politics to \"life-style\". One such critic, Alice Echols (a feminist historian and cultural theorist), credits Redstockings member Brooke Williams with introducing the term \"cultural feminism\" in 1975 to describe the depoliticisation of radical feminism.\n\nEcofeminism links ecology with feminism. Ecofeminists see the domination of women as stemming from the same ideologies that bring about the domination of the environment. Western patriarchal systems, where men own and control the land, are seen as responsible for the oppression of women and destruction of the natural environment. Ecofeminists argue that the men in power control the land, and therefore are able to exploit it for their own profit and success. In this situation, ecofeminists consider women to be exploited by men in power for their own profit, success, and pleasure. Thus ecofeminists argue that women and the environment are both exploited as passive pawns in the race to domination. Ecofeminists argue that those people in power are able to take advantage of them distinctly because they are seen as passive and rather helpless.\n\nEcofeminism connects the exploitation and domination of women with that of the environment. As a way of repairing social and ecological injustices, ecofeminists feel that women must work towards creating a healthy environment and ending the destruction of the lands that most women rely on to provide for their families.\n\nEcofeminism argues that there is a connection between women and nature that comes from their shared history of oppression by a patriarchal Western society. Vandana Shiva claims that women have a special connection to the environment through their daily interactions with it that has been ignored. She says that \"women in subsistence economies, producing and reproducing wealth in partnership with nature, have been experts in their own right of holistic and ecological knowledge of nature's processes. But these alternative modes of knowing, which are oriented to the social benefits and sustenance needs are not recognized by the capitalist reductionist paradigm, because it fails to perceive the interconnectedness of nature, or the connection of women's lives, work and knowledge with the creation of wealth.\"\n\nHowever, feminist and social ecologist Janet Biehl has criticized ecofeminism for focusing too much on a mystical connection between women and nature and not enough on the actual conditions of women.\n\nFrench feminism is a branch of feminist thought from a group of feminists in France from the 1970s to the 1990s. It is distinguished from Anglophone feminism by an approach which is more philosophical and literary. Its writings tend to be effusive and metaphorical, being less concerned with political doctrine and generally focused on theories of \"the body.\" The term includes writers who are not French, but who have worked substantially in France and the French tradition, such as Julia Kristeva and Bracha Ettinger.\n\nIn the 1970s, French feminists approached feminism with the concept of Écriture féminine, which translates as 'feminine writing'. Hélène Cixous argues that writing and philosophy are \"phallocentric\" and along with other French feminists such as Luce Irigaray emphasizes \"writing from the body\" as a subversive exercise. The work of the feminist psychoanalyst and philosopher, Julia Kristeva, has influenced feminist theory in general and feminist literary criticism in particular. From the 1980s onwards, the work of artist and psychoanalyst Bracha Ettinger has influenced literary criticism, art history, and film theory. Bracha Ettinger conceived of a feminine-maternal dimension she has named the matrixial, and she works toward changing the definition of the human subject to include it, as well as on the \"matrixial\" space, object and gaze (in art) and on the importance of the matrixial feminine dimension for the fields of psychoanalysis and ethics. However, as the scholar Elizabeth Wright pointed out, \"none of these French feminists align themselves with the feminist movement as it appeared in the Anglophone world.\"\n\nLiberal feminism asserts the equality of men and women through political and legal reform. Traditionally, during the 19th and early 20th century, liberal feminism had the same meaning as \"bourgeois feminism\" or \"mainstream feminism,\" and its broadest sense the term liberal feminism overlaps strongly with mainstream feminism. Liberal feminists sought to abolish political, legal and other forms of discrimination of women to allow them the same opportunities as men. Liberal feminists sought to alter the structure of society to ensure the equal treatment of women.\n\nMore recently, liberal feminism has additionally taken on a more narrow meaning which emphasizes women's ability to show and maintain their equality through their own actions and choices. In this sense, liberal feminism uses the personal interactions between men and women as the place from which to transform society. This use of the term differs from liberal feminism in the historical sense, which emphasized political and legal reforms and held that women's own actions and choices alone were not sufficient to bring about gender equality.\n\nIssues important to modern liberal feminists include reproductive and abortion rights, sexual harassment, voting, education, \"equal pay for equal work\", affordable childcare, affordable health care, and bringing to light the frequency of sexual and domestic violence against women.\n\nAccording to the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", \"Classical liberal or libertarian feminism conceives of freedom as freedom from coercive interference. It holds that women, as well as men, have a right to such freedom due to their status as self-owners.\"\n\nThere are several categories under the theory of libertarian feminism, or kinds of feminism that are linked to libertarian ideologies. Anarcha-feminism combines feminist and anarchist beliefs, embodying classical libertarianism rather than contemporary minarchist libertarianism. Recently, Wendy McElroy has defined a position, which she labels \"ifeminism\" or \"individualist feminism\", that combines feminism with anarcho-capitalism or contemporary minarchist libertarianism, and she argued that a pro-capitalist and anti-state position is compatible with an emphasis on equal rights and empowerment for women. Individualist anarchist-feminism has grown from the United States-based individualist anarchism movement.\n\nIndividualist feminism is typically defined as a feminism in opposition to what writers such as Wendy McElroy and Christina Hoff Sommers term \"political\" or \"gender feminism\". However, there are some differences within the discussion of individualist feminism. While some individualist feminists like McElroy oppose government interference into the choices women make with their bodies because such interference creates a coercive hierarchy (such as patriarchy), other feminists such as Christina Hoff Sommers hold that feminism's political role is simply to ensure that everyone's, including women's, right against coercive interference is respected. Sommers is described as a \"socially conservative equity feminist\" by the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\". Critics have called her an anti-feminist.\n\nMultiracial feminism (also known as \"women of color\" feminism) offers a standpoint theory and analysis of the lives and experiences of women of color. The theory emerged in the 1990s and was developed by Dr. Maxine Baca Zinn, a Chicana feminist, and Dr. Bonnie Thornton Dill, a sociology expert on African American women and family.\n\nThough often ignored in the history of the second wave of feminism, multiracial feminists were organizing at the same time as white feminists. Not only did they work alongside other women of color and white feminists, but multiracial feminists also organized themselves outside of women only spaces. In the 1970s women of color worked mainly on three fronts, \"working with white dominated feminist groups; forming women’s caucuses in existing mixed-gender organizations; and forming autonomous Black, Latina, Native American, and Asian feminist organizations\" The perspective of Multiracial Feminism attempts to go beyond a mere recognition of diversity and difference among women, to examine structures of domination, specifically the importance of race in understanding the social construction of gender.\n\nPost-structural feminism, also referred to as French feminism, uses the insights of various epistemological movements, including psychoanalysis, linguistics, political theory (Marxist and post-Marxist theory), race theory, literary theory, and other intellectual currents for feminist concerns. Many post-structural feminists maintain that difference is one of the most powerful tools that women possess in their struggle with patriarchal domination, and that to equate the feminist movement only with equality is to deny women a plethora of options because equality is still defined from the masculine or patriarchal perspective.\n\nPostcolonial feminism, sometimes also known as Third World feminism, partly draws on postcolonialism, which discusses experiences endured during colonialism, including \"migration, slavery, suppression, resistance, representation, difference, race, gender, place and responses to the influential discourses of imperial Europe.\" Postcolonial feminism centers on racism, ethnic issues, and the long-lasting economic, political, and cultural effects of colonialism, inextricably bound up with the unique gendered realities of non-White non-Western women. It sees the parallels between recently decolonized nations and the state of women within patriarchy—both postcolonialism and postcolonial feminism take the \"perspective of a socially marginalized subgroup in their relationship to the dominant culture.\"\n\nWestern feminists universalize women's issues, thereby excluding social classes and ethnic identities, reinforcing homophobia, and ignoring the activity and voices of non-White non-Western women, as under one application of Orientalism. Some postcolonial feminists criticize radical and liberal feminism and some, such as Chandra Talpade Mohanty, are critical of Western feminism for being ethnocentric. Black feminists, such as Angela Davis and Alice Walker, share this view. Another critic of Western perspectives is Sarojini Sahoo. Postcolonial feminists can be described as feminists who have reacted against both universalizing tendencies in Western feminist thought and a lack of attention to gender issues in mainstream postcolonial thought.\n\nColonialism has a gendered history. Colonial powers often imposed Western norms on colonized regions. Postcolonial feminists argue that cultures impacted by colonialism are often vastly different and should be treated as such. In the 1940s and '50s, after the formation of the United Nations, former colonies were monitored by the West for what was considered \"social progress\". Since then, the status of women in the developing world has been monitored by organizations such as the United Nations. Traditional practices and roles taken up by women—sometimes seen as distasteful by Western standards—could be considered a form of rebellion against colonial oppression. That oppression may result in the glorification of pre-colonial culture, which, in cultures with traditions of power stratification along gender lines, could mean the acceptance of, or refusal to deal with, issues of gender inequality. Postcolonial feminists today struggle to fight gender oppression within their own cultural models of society rather than through those imposed by the Western colonizers.\n\nPostcolonial feminism is closely related to transnational feminism. The former has strong overlaps and ties with Black feminism because both respond to racism and seek recognition by men in their own cultures and by Western feminists.\n\nPostmodern feminism is an approach to feminist theory that incorporates postmodern and post-structuralist theory. Judith Butler argues that sex, not just gender, is constructed through language. In her 1990 book, \"Gender Trouble\", she draws on and critiques the work of Simone de Beauvoir, Michel Foucault, and Jacques Lacan. Butler criticizes the distinction drawn by previous feminisms between biological sex and socially constructed gender. She says that the sex/gender distinction does not allow for a sufficient criticism of essentialism. For Butler, \"woman\" is a debatable category, complicated by class, ethnicity, sexuality, and other facets of identity. She states that gender is performative. This argument leads to the conclusion that there is no single cause for women's subordination and no single approach towards dealing with the issue.\n\nIn \"A Cyborg Manifesto\", Donna Haraway criticizes traditional notions of feminism, particularly its emphasis on identity, rather than affinity. She uses the metaphor of a cyborg in order to construct a postmodern feminism that moves beyond dualisms and the limitations of traditional gender, feminism, and politics. Haraway's cyborg is an attempt to break away from Oedipal narratives and Christian origin myths like Genesis. She writes, \"The cyborg does not dream of community on the model of the organic family, this time without the oedipal project. The cyborg would not recognize the Garden of Eden; it is not made of mud and cannot dream of returning to dust.\"\n\nA major branch in postmodern feminist thought has emerged from contemporary psychoanalytic French feminism. Other postmodern feminist works highlight stereotypical gender roles, only to portray them as parodies of the original beliefs. The history of feminism is not important in these writings—only what is going to be done about it. The history is dismissed and used to depict how ridiculous past beliefs were. Modern feminist theory has been extensively criticized as being predominantly, though not exclusively, associated with Western middle class academia. Mary Joe Frug, a postmodernist feminist, criticized mainstream feminism as being too narrowly focused and inattentive to related issues of race and class.\n\nRadical feminism considers the male-controlled capitalist hierarchy, which it describes as sexist, as the defining feature of women's oppression. Radical feminists believe that women can free themselves only when they have done away with what they consider an inherently oppressive and dominating patriarchal system. Radical feminists feel that there is a male-based authority and power structure and that it is responsible for oppression and inequality, and that, as long as the system and its values are in place, society will not be able to be reformed in any significant way. Some radical feminists see no alternatives other than the total uprooting and reconstruction of society in order to achieve their goals.\n\nOver time a number of sub-types of radical feminism have emerged, such as cultural feminism, separatist feminism, and anti-pornography feminism, the last opposed by sex-positive feminism.\n\nSeparatist feminism is a form of radical feminism that does not support heterosexual relationships. Lesbian feminism is thus closely related. Separatist feminism's proponents argue that the sexual disparities between men and women are unresolvable. Separatist feminists generally do not feel that men can make positive contributions to the feminist movement and that even well-intentioned men replicate patriarchal dynamics. Author Marilyn Frye describes separatist feminism as \"separation of various sorts or modes from men and from institutions, relationships, roles and activities that are male-defined, male-dominated, and operating for the benefit of males and the maintenance of male privilege—this separation being initiated or maintained, at will, \"by women\"\".\n\nSocialist feminism connects the oppression of women to Marxist ideas about exploitation, oppression and labor. Socialist feminists think unequal standing in both the workplace and the domestic sphere holds women down. Socialist feminists see prostitution, domestic work, childcare, and marriage as ways in which women are exploited by a patriarchal system that devalues women and the substantial work they do. Socialist feminists focus their energies on far-reaching change that affects society as a whole, rather than on an individual basis. They see the need to work alongside not just men but all other groups, as they see the oppression of women as a part of a larger pattern that affects everyone involved in the capitalist system.\n\nMarx felt that when class oppression was overcome gender oppression would vanish as well; this is Marxist feminism. Some socialist feminists, many of Radical Women and the Freedom Socialist Party, point to the classic Marxist writings of Frederick Engels and August Bebel as a powerful explanation of the link between gender oppression and class exploitation. To some other socialist feminists, this view of gender oppression is naive and much of the work of socialist feminists has gone towards separating gender phenomena from class phenomena. Some contributors to socialist feminism have criticized these traditional Marxist ideas for being largely silent on gender oppression except to subsume it underneath broader class oppression.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century, both Clara Zetkin and Eleanor Marx were against the demonization of men and supported a proletarian revolution that would overcome as many male–female inequalities as possible. most Marxist leaders, including Clara Zetkin and Alexandra Kollontai counterposed Marxism against feminism, rather than trying to combine them.\n\nSince the 1980s, standpoint feminists have argued that feminism should examine how women's experience of inequality relates to that of racism, homophobia, classism and colonization. In the late 1980s and the 1990s, postmodern feminists argued that gender roles are socially constructed, and that it is impossible to generalize women's experiences across cultures and histories.\n\nThird-world feminism has been described as a group of feminist theories developed by feminists who acquired their views and took part in feminist politics in so-called third-world countries. Although women from the third world have been engaged in the feminist movement, Chandra Talpade Mohanty and Sarojini Sahoo criticize Western feminism on the grounds that it is ethnocentric and does not take into account the unique experiences of women from third-world countries or the existence of feminisms indigenous to third-world countries. According to Mohanty, women in the third world feel that Western feminism bases its understanding of women on \"internal racism, classism and homophobia\". This discourse is strongly related to African feminism and postcolonial feminism. Its development is also associated with black feminism, womanism, \"Africana womanism\", \"motherism\", \"Stiwanism\", \"negofeminism\", chicana feminism, and \"femalism\".\n\nTransfeminism (or trans feminism) is, as defined by Robert Hill, \"a category of feminism, most often known for the application of transgender discourses to feminist discourses, and of feminist beliefs to transgender discourse\". Hill says that transfeminism also concerns its integration within mainstream feminism. He defines transfeminism in this context as a type of feminism \"having specific content that applies to transgender and transsexual people, but the thinking and theory of which is also applicable to all women\".\n\nTransfeminism includes many of the major themes of other third-wave feminism, including diversity, body image, oppression, misogyny, and women's agency. It is not merely about merging trans concerns with feminism, but often applies feminist analysis and critiques to social issues facing trans women and trans people more broadly. Transfeminism also includes critical analysis of second-wave feminism from the perspective of the third wave.\n\nEarly voices in the movement include Kate Bornstein and Sandy Stone, whose essay \"The Empire Strikes Back\" was a direct response to Janice Raymond. In the 21st century, Susan Stryker and Julia Serano have contributed work in the field of transgender women.\n\nThe first wave of Asian women's organizing formed out of the Asian American movement of the 1960s, which in turn was inspired by the civil rights movement and the anti-Viet Nam War movement. \nDuring the Second Wave of feminism, Asian American women provided services for battered women, worked as advocates for refugees and recent immigrants, produced events spotlighting Asian women’s cultural and political diversity, and organized with other women of color. Asian Sisters, which emerged in 1971 out of the Asian American Political Alliance, is an early Asian American women’s group based out of Los Angeles that focused on drug abuse intervention for young women. Networking between Asian American and other women during this period also included participation by a contingent of 150 Third World and white women from North America at the historic Vancouver Indochinese Women’s Conference (1971) to work with the Indochinese women against U.S. imperialism.\n\nAfter World War II when immigration laws began to change, an increasing number of Asian women began to migrate to the United States and joined the workforce. Asian women who worked in the textile and garment industry faced gender discrimination as well as racism.\n\nFollowing the African American and Chicana feminist movements of the 1960s, Asian American women activists began to organize and participated in protests with Asian American men to fight racism and classism. The first organized movement formed by Asian American women followed the Asian American movement in the 1960s, which was influenced by the Civil Rights Movement and anti-Vietnam War sentiment. However, as Asian American women's participation became increasingly active, they faced sexism and realized that many of the organizations did not recognize their needs and struggles as women.\n\nWhile Asian American women believed that they face the same social and equality issues as Asian American men, many Asian American men did not share the same sentiment.\n\nIn the mid 1960s when more and more Asian women began immigrating to the United States, they faced gender discrimination and racism in the workforce. Au Quon McElrath, who was a Chinese labor activist and social workers, began organizing and advocating for increased wages, improved working environments, additional health benefits, and maternity leaves for women workers.\n\nWhen Asian American women activists started to recognize a need for a separate movement from the sexism that they faced, they began to develop a feminist consciousness and initialized organizations to fight for women's rights and to fight against sexism. Some groups developed caucuses within organizations like the Organization of Chinese American Women, which was an already existing Asian American organization.\n\nWithin the Asian American cultural arts movement, many artists such as poet Janice Mirikitani rose to fame within the Asian American community.\n\nThough recent decades, Asian American feminism and feminist identity continues to struggle with the perception of Asian Americans as part of the Model minority, which has affected and shaped the political identity of Asian American women as women of color in the United States.\n\nAdditionally, globalized trade agreements like the North American Free Trade Agreement and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade have changed the dynamics of the labor force and work environments in the United States. In the free-trade capitalist global economy, protection of workers' rights and working environment has weakened dramatically, disproportionately disadvantaging women workers, especially women of color.\n\nWomen of All Red Nations (WARN) was initiated in 1974, and is one of the best known Native American women’s organizations whose activism included fighting sterilization in public health service hospitals, suing the U.S. government for attempts to sell Pine Ridge water in South Dakota to corporations, and networking with indigenous people in Guatemala and Nicaragua. WARN reflected a whole generation of Native American women activists who had been leaders in the takeover of Wounded Knee in South Dakota in 1973, on the Pine Ridge reservation (1973–76), and elsewhere. WARN as well as other Native American women's organizations, grew out of—and often worked with—mixed-gender nationalist organizations.\n\nThe American Indian Movement was founded in 1968 by Dennis Banks, George Mitchell, and Mary Jane Wilson, an Anishinabe activist.\n\nNative American feminist ideology is founded upon addressing two often overlooked issues: one, that the United States as well as other Western nations are settler colonial nation states, and second, colonialism is gendered. United States colonialism and patriarchy disproportionately impact the experiences of Native American women who face this \"double burden\" of both racism and sexism and the resulting discrimination. Thus, the history of Native American feminism has always been intwined with the processes of colonialism and imperialism.\n\nBecause of strong anti-colonial sentiments and the unique experience of Native Americans as a society that was colonized by American settlers, Native American feminist ideology is characterized by the rejection of feminist politics and their background as indigenous women. In the early 1990s, Annete Jaime, in \"American Indian Women: At the Center of Indigenous Resistance in North America,\" argues that only Native women who have assimilated consider themselves as feminists. Jaime states that supporting the equality and political freedom of Native American women activists means the rejection of feminist politics as feminist politics is tied to the colonial history of the United States.\n\nThe indigenous movement of Native American women also involves the preservation of Native spirituality by organizations such as Women of All Red Nations and the Indigenous Women's Network. Native spirituality includes the cultural contextualization of kinship roles through cultural beliefs, rituals, and ceremonies, strengthening and preserving the fluid bond between the individual and the \"indigenous homeland.\" The expectation of indigenous spirituality manifested in the \"feminine organic archetypes\" such as images like the Corn Mother and Daughter, Spider Woman, and Changing Woman of Southwest Pueblo lore found in Native creation myths.\n\nIn the United States, more Native American women die from domestic violence than any other women. The issue of domestic violence has caused many Native American feminists to reject the assumption and notion that women in Native American communities must continue to defend the ideal of tribal nationalism when certain aspects of tribal nationalism ignore very pertinent problems of sexism and women's liberation from colonization.\n\nAndrea Smith, an activist for women of color and especially Native American women, organized the first \"Color of Violence: Violence against Women of Color Conference.\" During this conference, notable African American scholar and activist Angela Davis spoke on the continual colonial domination and oppression of indigenous nations, highlighting and emphasizing the experience of violence towards Native women. Davis also pointed out the gendered nature of the legislative and judicial process in nation-states as well as the inextricable link between the federal government and male dominance, racism, classism, and homophobia.\n\nIn modern Native American feminism, there has been an emergence of politically significant art forms and media. The art combines past and current history, addresses racism and sexism, and breaks down the social and media representation and stigmas of persons of color.\n\nChicana feminism focuses on Mexican American, Chicana, and Hispanic women in the United States. Hijas de Cuauhtemoc was one of the earliest Chicana feminist organizations in the Second Wave of feminism founded in 1971, and named after a Mexican women’s underground newspaper that was published during the 1910 Mexican revolution. The Comisión Femenil Mexicana Nacional was founded in October 1970. The Comisión Femenil Mexicana Nacional is an organization of women who enhance and promote the image of Chicana/Latina women in all levels of society.\n\nThe movement highlighting the struggles and issues experienced by Chicanas, as women of color in the United States, emerged primarily as a result of the politics and dynamics of the national Chicano movement. During the 1960s, the Chicano movement, characterized by a nature of protest, fought for equality, social justice, and political and economic freedoms, and during this period in time, many other struggles and organizations were sparked by the movement. The Chicano movements and protests also saw the participation of Chicanas, who through the movement, became aware of the potential rewards as well as their own roles within the movement and society. As a result, Chicana feminism developed towards the end of the 1960s and early 1970s. Through the subsequent movement, Chicanas publicized their struggle for equality with Chicano men and questioned and challenged their traditional cultural, societal, and familial roles.\n\nThe primary movement which saw the emergence of Chicana feminism in the United States began in the 1960s and 1970s following the Chicano movement. Chicana feminism, built upon and transformed the ideologies of the Chicano movement, was one of the United States' \"second wave\" of feminist protests. Like many prominent movements during the 1960s-1970s error, \"second wave\" Chicana feminism arose through protests across many college campuses in addition to other regional organizations. Youth participation in the movements was more aggressive due to influence from active civil rights and black liberation protests occurring nationally.\n\nSince the \"second wave\" Chicana feminist movement, many organizations have developed in order to properly address the unique struggles and challenges that Chicanas face. In addition, Chicana feminism continues to recognize the life conditions and experiences that are very different from those that white feminists face. As women of color, Chicanas continue to fight for educational, economic, and political equality.\n\nSome argue that every feminist has an altered standpoint on the movement due to the varying hurdles women of different backgrounds come across.\n\nMovements share some perspectives while disagreeing on others. For example, some movements differ on whether discrimination against women adversely affects men. Movements represented by writers Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem consider men oppressed by gender roles. \"From the beginning Friedan had presented feminism as a sex-role revolution in which both men and women would benefit. Indeed, for Friedan feminism was but 'a stage in the whole human rights movement.'\" \"[I]n 1970, Gloria Steinem, \"Ms.\" editor and the best-known exponent of this new liberal feminism . . . implied that women's liberation was men's liberation as well\" because some burdens on men would no longer be men's alone. Susan Faludi wrote, in , \"[W]ith the mystery of men's nonrebellion comes the glimmer of an opening, an opportunity for men to forge a rebellion commensurate with women's and, in the course of it, to create a new paradigm for human progress that will open doors for both sexes. That was, and continues to be, feminism's dream, to create a freer, more humane world.\" Ellen Willis, weighing economics and feminism, considered an alliance with men necessary to women's liberation. Florynce Kennedy wrote, \"Men are outraged, turned off, and wigged out, by threats that women might withdraw consent to oppression, because they—men—subconsciously (and often consciously) know that they—men—are oppressed.\" Mary Wollstonecraft wrote, \"From the respect paid to property flow . . . most of the evils and vices which render this world such a dreary scene to the contemplative mind. . . . One class presses on another; for all are aiming to procure respect on account of their property . . . . [M]en wonder that the world is almost, literally speaking, a den of sharpers or oppressors.\" \"Those writers are particularly useful, in my opinion, who make man feel for man, independent of the station he fills, or the drapery of factitious sentiments.\" \"Men are not aware of the misery they cause, and the vicious weakness they cherish, by only inciting women to render themselves pleasing\". \"To say the truth, I not only tremble for the souls of women, but for the good natured man, whom everyone loves.\"\n\nOther movements consider men primarily the causative agents of sexism. Mary Daly wrote, \"The courage to be logical—the courage to name—would require that we admit to ourselves that males and males only are the originators, planners, controllers, and legitimators of patriarchy. Patriarchy is the homeland of males; it is Father Land; and men are its agents.\" The Redstockings declared, \"We identify the agents of our oppression as men. . . . [M]en dominate women, a few men dominate the rest. . . . \"All men\" receive economic, sexual, and psychological benefits from male supremacy. \"All men\" have oppressed women.\" In a somewhat less clear-cut position, Kate Millett wrote in \"Sexual Politics\", \"The following sketch . . . . must . . . be both tentative and imperfect. . . . [O]ur society, like all other historical civilizations, is a patriarchy. . . . The fact is evident at once if one recalls that . . . every avenue of power within the society . . . is entirely in male hands. . . . If one takes patriarchal government to be the institution whereby that half of the populace which is female is controlled by that half which is male, the principles of patriarchy appear to be twofold: male shall dominate female, elder male shall dominate younger. However, just as with any human institution, . . . contradictions and exceptions do exist within the system.\"\n\nA common interest in the upward mobilization of women as a whole has prompted a desire for a more inclusive and universal feminist movement.\n\nSome have argued that the wide diversity in feminist ideologies has hindered the collaboration of some feminist subdivisions. On the other hand, Linda Zerilli and Donna Haraway assert that different discourses within feminism can be artificially separated through taxonomies, and it is this separation rather than ideological incompatibility that has impeded constructive conversation on subjectivity.\n"}
{"id": "317153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317153", "title": "Foreign minister", "text": "Foreign minister\n\nA foreign minister or minister of foreign affairs (less commonly \"for foreign affairs\") is generally a cabinet minister in charge of a state's foreign policy and relations.\n\nIn some nations, such as India, the Foreign Minister is referred to as the Minister for External Affairs; or, as in the case of Brazil, Minister of Foreign Affairs; or, still others, such as states created from the former Soviet Union, call the position the Minister of External Relations. In the United States, the equivalent to the foreign ministry is called the Department of State, and the equivalent position is known as the Secretary of State. Other common titles may include Minister of Foreign Relations. In many Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries in Latin America, the foreign minister is colloquially called \"Canciller\".\n\nDiplomats themselves and historians often refer to the foreign ministry by its local address, for example, the Ballhausplatz in Vienna housed the Foreign Ministry of Austria-Hungary; the Quai d'Orsay in Paris for France's Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs; the Itamaraty Palace in Brasília is the headquarters of the Ministry of External Relations in Brazil; the Wilhelmstraße, in Berlin, was the location of the German Foreign Office; and Foggy Bottom, a neighborhood of Washington, D.C., houses the Department of State. Indonesians also often refers to their Ministry_of_Foreign_Affairs_(Indonesia)#Ministers as \"Pejambon\", since the ministry's main headquarters is located at Pejambon Street, Central Jakarta. During the Russian Empire, which lasted until 1917, the term used was the Choristers' Bridge in Saint Petersburg. In contrast, the Italian ministry was called the Consulta.\n\nA foreign minister's powers can vary from government to government. In a classic parliamentary system, a foreign minister can potentially exert significant influence in forming foreign policy but when the government is dominated by a strong prime minister the foreign minister may be limited to playing a more marginal or subsidiary role in determining policy. Similarly, the political powers invested in the foreign minister are often more limited in presidential governments with a strong executive branch. Since the end of World War II, it has been common for both the foreign minister and defense minister to be part of an inner cabinet (commonly known as a national security council) in order to coordinate defense and diplomatic policy. Although the 19th and early 20th centuries saw many heads of government assume the foreign ministry, this practice has since become uncommon in most developed nations.\n\nAlong with their political roles, foreign ministers are also traditionally responsible for many diplomatic duties, such as hosting foreign world leaders and going on state visits to other countries. The foreign minister is generally the most well-traveled member of any cabinet.\n\n\nAlthough it is very rare for there to be any sub-national foreign minister post, sometimes there is a minor external relations position. The European Union has dealt with external relations in certain areas since its inception (see EU Trade Commissioner) and has a High Representative as its chief diplomat. However her duties are primarily to implement EU foreign policy, rather than formulate it.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12985", "title": "General Synod", "text": "General Synod\n\nThe General Synod is the title of the governing body of some church organizations. \n\nIn the Church of England, the General Synod, which was established in 1970 (replacing the Church Assembly), is the legislative body of the Church.\n\nIn the Episcopal Church in the United States of America, the equivalent is General Convention.\n\nGeneral Synods of other churches within the Anglican Communion\n\nThe United Church of Christ in the United States also calls their main governing body a General Synod. It meets every two years and consists of over 600 delegates from various congregations and conferences.\n\nThe Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church has as its highest Church court the General Synod. The ARP General Synod meets yearly (in recent years, it has, almost without exception, been held at Bonclarken). The delegates to the General Synod of the ARP Church are the elder representatives elected from each church's Session and all ministers from all presbyteries that comprise the Church (excluding ministers and elders from the independent ARP Synods of Mexico and Pakistan).\n\nThe Evangelical Church of Augsburg and Helvetic Confession in Austria and the United Evangelical Lutheran Church of Germany each call their main legislative bodies Generalsynode. In the Evangelical Church in Prussia the legislating body was called Generalsynode between 1846 and 1953.\n\nThe governing body of the Reformed Church in America, a Calvinist denomination in the United States and Canada, is known as the General Synod.\n\n\"Kirkemøtet\", the governing body of the Church of Norway is normally translated to General Synod. It convenes once a year, and consists of 85 representatives, of whom seven or eight are sent from each of the dioceses.\n\nThe Batak Christian Protestant Church (BPCP), or \"Huria Kristen Batak Protestan\" (abbreviated HKBP), held a twice-a-year General Synod (Sinode Godang), to discuss about matters in HKBP, and to elect the new \"Ephorus\" (or Board) for the HKBP. The first General Synod of HKBP was held in 1922.\n\nIn the North American Lutheran tradition, General Synod refers to a church body which existed from 1820–1918. See Evangelical Lutheran General Synod of the United States of North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10196558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10196558", "title": "Gruber Prize for Women's Rights", "text": "Gruber Prize for Women's Rights\n\nThe Gruber Prize for Women's Rights, established in 2003, was one of five international prizes worth US$500,000 awarded by The Peter and Patricia Gruber Foundation, an American non-profit organization.\n\nThe Peter and Patricia Gruber Foundation Women's Rights Prize was presented to an individual or group that has made significant contributions, often at great personal or professional risk, to furthering the rights of women and girls in any area and to advancing public awareness of the need for gender equality to achieve a just world. Recipients were selected by a distinguished panel of international women's rights experts/activists from nominations that are received from around the world.\n\nThe Foundation honored and encouraged educational excellence, social justice and scientific achievements that better the human condition.\n\nIn 2011, the Prize for Women's Rights was discontinued.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25132005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25132005", "title": "HTTP Strict Transport Security", "text": "HTTP Strict Transport Security\n\nHTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is a web security policy mechanism that helps to protect websites against protocol downgrade attacks and cookie hijacking. It allows web servers to declare that web browsers (or other complying user agents) should interact with it using only secure HTTPS connections, and never via the insecure HTTP protocol. HSTS is an IETF standards track protocol and is specified in RFC 6797.\n\nThe HSTS Policy is communicated by the server to the user agent via an HTTPS response header field named \"<nowiki>Strict-Transport-Security</nowiki>\". HSTS Policy specifies a period of time during which the user agent should only access the server in a secure fashion. As the HSTS HTTP Header is only recognized when sent over an HTTPS connection, websites can still allow users to interact with the website using HTTP, to allow compatibility with non-HTTPS user agents.\n\nThe HSTS specification was published as RFC 6797 on 19 November 2012 after being approved on 2 October 2012 by the IESG for publication as a Proposed Standard RFC.\nThe authors originally submitted it as an Internet-Draft on 17 June 2010. With the conversion to an Internet-Draft, the specification name was altered from \"Strict Transport Security\" (STS) to \"HTTP Strict Transport Security\", because the specification applies only to HTTP. The HTTP response header field defined in the HSTS specification however remains named \"Strict-Transport-Security\".\n\nThe last so-called \"community version\" of the then-named \"STS\" specification was published on 18 December 2009, with revisions based on community feedback.\n\nThe original draft specification by Jeff Hodges from PayPal, Collin Jackson, and Adam Barth was published on 18 September 2009.\n\nThe HSTS specification is based on original work by Jackson and Barth as described in their paper “ForceHTTPS: Protecting High-Security Web Sites from Network Attacks”.\n\nAdditionally, HSTS is the realization of one facet of an overall vision for improving web security, put forward by Jeff Hodges and Andy Steingruebl in their 2010 paper \"The Need for Coherent Web Security Policy Framework(s)\".\n\nA server implements an HSTS policy by supplying a header over an HTTPS connection (HSTS headers over HTTP are ignored). For example, a server could send a header such that future requests to the domain for the next year (max-age is specified in seconds; 31,536,000 is equal to one non-leap year) use only HTTPS: codice_1.\n\nWhen a web application issues HSTS Policy to user agents, conformant user agents behave as follows (RFC 6797):\n\n\nThe HSTS Policy helps protect web application users against some passive (eavesdropping) and active network attacks. A man-in-the-middle attacker has a greatly reduced ability to intercept requests and responses between a user and a web application server while the user's browser has HSTS Policy in effect for that web application.\n\nThe most important security vulnerability that HSTS can fix is SSL-stripping man-in-the-middle attacks, first publicly introduced by Moxie Marlinspike in his 2009 BlackHat Federal talk \"New Tricks For Defeating SSL In Practice\". The SSL (and TLS) stripping attack works by transparently converting a secure HTTPS connection into a plain HTTP connection. The user can see that the connection is insecure, but crucially there is no way of knowing whether the connection \"should\" be secure. Many websites do not use TLS/SSL, therefore there is no way of knowing (without prior knowledge) whether the use of plain HTTP is due to an attack, or simply because the website hasn't implemented TLS/SSL. Additionally, no warnings are presented to the user during the downgrade process, making the attack fairly subtle to all but the most vigilant. Marlinspike's sslstrip tool fully automates the attack.\n\nHSTS addresses this problem by informing the browser that connections to the site should always use TLS/SSL. The HSTS header can be stripped by the attacker if this is the user's first visit. Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge attempt to limit this problem by including a \"pre-loaded\" list of HSTS sites.\nUnfortunately this solution cannot scale to include all websites on the internet. See limitations, below.\n\nHSTS can also help to prevent having one's cookie-based website login credentials stolen by widely available tools such as Firesheep.\n\nBecause HSTS is time limited, it is sensitive to attacks involving shifting the victim's computer time e.g. using false NTP packets.\n\nThe initial request remains unprotected from active attacks if it uses an insecure protocol such as plain HTTP or if the URI for the initial request was obtained over an insecure channel. The same applies to the first request after the activity period specified in the advertised HSTS Policy <nowiki>max-age</nowiki> (sites should set a period of several days or months depending on user activity and behavior). Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer/Microsoft Edge address this limitation by implementing a \"HSTS preloaded list\", which is a list that contains known sites supporting HSTS. This list is distributed with the browser so that it uses HTTPS for the initial request to the listed sites as well. As previously mentioned, these pre-loaded lists cannot scale to cover the entire Web. A potential solution might be achieved by using DNS records to declare HSTS Policy, and accessing them securely via DNSSEC, optionally with certificate fingerprints to ensure validity (which requires running a validating resolver to avoid last mile issues).\n\nJunade Ali has noted that HSTS is often ineffective against the use of phony domains; by using DNS-based attacks, it is possible for a Man-in-the-Middle interceptor to serve traffic from an artificial domain which is not on the HSTS Preload list, this is made possible by DNS Spoofing Attacks.\n\nEven with an \"HSTS preloaded list\", HSTS can't prevent advanced attacks against TLS itself, such as the BEAST or CRIME attacks introduced by Juliano Rizzo and Thai Duong. Attacks against TLS itself are orthogonal to HSTS policy enforcement.\n\nSee for a discussion of overall HSTS security considerations.\n\nHSTS can be used to near-indelibly tag visiting browsers with recoverable identifying data (supercookies) which can persist in and out of browser \"incognito\" privacy modes. By creating a web page that makes multiple HTTP requests to selected domains, for example if twenty browser requests to twenty different domains are used, theoretically over one million visitors can be distinguished (2) due to the resulting requests arriving via HTTP vs. HTTPS; the latter being the previously recorded binary \"bits\" established earlier via HSTS headers.\n\n\nDepending on the actual deployment there are certain threats (e.g. cookie injection attacks) that can be avoided by following best practices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32463718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32463718", "title": "ICivics", "text": "ICivics\n\niCivics, inc. (formerly Our Courts) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization in the United States that provides educational online games and lesson plans to promote civics education and encourage students to become active citizens. iCivics was founded in 2008 by retired Supreme Court of the United States Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. iCivics’s stated mission is to “ensure every student receives a high-quality civic education, and becomes engaged in – and beyond – the classroom.”\n\niCivics, inc. is supported by private donations and grants and had annual expenses of $2.2 million in 2015. Among the top contributors were the Gates Foundation and the MacArthur Foundation. In the same year, iCivics served more than 85,000 educators and 3 million students, including half of all middle school social studies classrooms in America.\n\nJustice O’Connor developed the Our Courts project in partnership with Georgetown University Law School and Arizona State University. In March 2009, Justice O'Connor went on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart to promote Our Courts and civics education. Our Courts added \"Supreme Decision\" and \"Do I Have A Right?\" to the website in August 2009. It was incorporated as iCivics, inc. in May 2010 as the variety of content and users began to expand more rapidly. A more comprehensive website was launched, supplementing the gaming modules with classroom lessons on the branches of government.\n\nAbove The Law sponsored a \"Do I Have A Right?\" challenge in 2010. Justice O'Connor was the keynote speaker at Games for Change in 2010, and iCivics was featured at the Games for Change conference in New York in 2011. The Washington Post Editorial Board highlighted the shortcomings of traditional civics education, and the efforts of iCivics.\n\nIn 2011 the website added seven games and 16 lesson plans, and had over 700,000 unique visitors. By 2013 it was the most widely adopted civics curriculum in America.\n\nCurrently, the governing board of iCivics includes O’Connor as well as current Justice Sonia Sotomayor and the Honorable Robert Henry, president of Oklahoma City University. The executive director of iCivics is Louise Dubé, previously Managing Director of Digital Learning at WGBH.\n\nJustice O’Connor initially envisioned Our Courts as a response to a perceived misunderstanding of the justice system in America. As keynote speaker at the NCSS annual conference in 2007, she noted “that while two-thirds of Americans know at least two judges on FOX Television’s ‘American Idol’ reality program, less than one in 10 can name the Chief Justice of the United States.” At present, ourcourts.org maintains this mission, but iCivics has a broader mission incorporating education on the legislative and executive branches of government as well as civics at a local level.\n\nThe organization focuses on broadly improving civics education but also on closing the civics education gap. O'Connor saw the state of civics education as a result of the failure of traditional education methods, as well as funding cuts and lower graduation requirements imposed by the No Child Left Behind Act. Our Courts collaborator James Gee, a professor of literacy at Arizona State University, convinced her that educational games were the key to civics education, due to their capacity to teach problem solving.\n\niCivics games have been evaluated for their educational effectiveness in a handful of research studies. \"Branches of Power\" was shown to be both engaging and educational for a majority of students in a test group. A significant number of students also play the games again at home, greatly increasing absorption of concepts and improving test scores. The general iCivics curriculum has been shown to be an effective mechanism for education on civics topics as measured by scores on the US citizenship test. It was particularly effective among younger students in grades 4-6 and less effective among high school seniors. The interactive writing exercise Drafting Board also improved persuasive writing skills among 8th graders.\n\nThe organization is currently working on extending its curriculum to high school and reaching more high school educators. It currently serves one in four high school government and history teachers.\n\niCivics hosts lesson plans, games, online workshops and other materials for teachers and students of American civics. All online materials are free to registered users.\n\niCivics currently hosts nineteen different educational games, developed in partnership with Filament Games (with the exception of Supreme Decision, produced with Studio Mobile, Cabengo and the Center for Children & Technology). Curriculum and design of each game is provided by employees of iCivics, and dart, programming, and sound design is provided by Filament.\n\nLesson plans on iCivics are also provided for free, with content and curriculum guidance provided by iCivics staff. These plans emphasize student engagement by including activities such as crosswords and short quizzes as well as reference to their online games. Units of study include the history and development of the Constitution, the branches and levels of government, the rights and duties of citizens, politics and policy, and international affairs. Beyond education on government, there is also a unit on persuasive writing. A set of lessons developed with the Boys & Girls Clubs of America was designed to be used during their meetings instead of a traditional school period.\n\n"}
{"id": "907259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907259", "title": "Initiatives and referendums in the United States", "text": "Initiatives and referendums in the United States\n\nIn the politics of the United States, the process of initiatives and referendums allow citizens of many U.S. states to place new legislation on a popular ballot, or to place legislation that has recently been passed by a legislature on a ballot for a popular vote. Initiatives and referendums, along with recall elections and popular primary elections, are signature reforms of the Progressive Era; they are written into several state constitutions, particularly in the West.\n\nThe Progressive Era was a period marked by reforms aimed at breaking the concentrated power, or monopoly, of certain corporations and trusts. Many Progressives believed that state legislatures were part of this problem and that they were essentially \"in the pocket\" of certain wealthy interests. They sought a method to counter this—a way in which average persons could become directly involved in the political process. One of the methods they came up with was the initiative and referendum. Between 1904 and 2007, some 2231 statewide referendums initiated by citizens were held in the USA. 909 of these initiatives have been approved. Perhaps even greater is the number of such referendums that have been called by state legislatures or mandatory—600 compared to 311 civic initiatives in 2000-2007.\n\nInitiatives and referendums—collectively known as \"ballot measures,\" \"propositions,\" or simply \"questions\"—differ from most legislation passed by representative democracies; ordinarily, an elected legislative body develops and passes laws. Initiatives and referendums, by contrast, allow citizens to vote directly on legislation.\n\nIn many U.S. states, ballot measures may originate by several different processes: Overall, 27 US states and Washington D.C. allow some form of direct democracy.\n\nAn Initiative is a means through which any citizen or organization may gather a predetermined number of signatures to qualify a measure to be placed on a ballot, and to be voted upon in a future election. (These may be further divided into constitutional amendments and statutory initiatives. Statutory initiatives typically require fewer signatures to qualify to be placed on a future ballot.)\n\nThe following US states allow initiated state statutes, also called initiative (direct) state statutes:\n\nThe following US states allow indirect state statutes:\n\nWhile the following US states allow legislative action to void a petition:\n\nThe initiative process, for proposing constitutional amendments, may be \"direct\" or \"indirect\". States that permit indirect constitutional amendments, like Mississippi, permit legislators to propose an alternative amendment which is placed on the ballot alongside the direct citizen proposal.\n\nThe following US states allow indirect initiated state constitutional amendments:\n\nAn initiated constitutional amendment is an amendment to a state's constitution that results from petitioning by a state's citizens. By utilizing this initiative process, citizens can propose and vote on constitutional amendments directly, without need of legislative referral. When a sufficient number of citizens have signed a petition requesting it, a proposed constitutional amendment is then put to the vote.\n\nIn the United States, while no court or legislature needs to approve a proposal or the resultant initiated constitutional amendment, such amendments may be overturned if they are challenged and a court confirms that they are unconstitutional. Most states that permit the process require a 2/3 majority vote.\n\nNot all amendments proposed will receive sufficient support to be placed on the ballot. Of the 26 proposed petitions filed in the state of Florida in its 1994 general election, only three garnered sufficient support to be put to the vote.\n\nThe following US states allow initiated (direct) state constitutional amendments:\nPopular Referendum, in which a predetermined number of signatures (typically lower than the number required for an initiative) qualifies a ballot measure for repealing a specific act of the legislature.\n\nThe following US states allow referendum:\nLegislative referral (aka \"legislative referendum\"), in which the legislature puts proposed legislation up for popular vote (either voluntarily or, in the case of a constitutional amendment, as a necessary part of the procedure.)\n\nThe following US states allow legislatively-referred state statutes:\nWith the exception of Delaware, 49 US states allow legislatively-referred state constitutional amendments.\n\nThe initiative and referendums process have critics. Some argue that initiatives and referendums undermine representative government by circumventing the elected representatives of the people and allowing the people to directly make policy: they fear excessive majoritarianism (tyranny of the majority) as a result, believing that minority groups may be harmed.\n\nOther criticisms are that competing initiatives with conflicting provisions can create legal difficulties when both pass; and that when the initiatives are proposed before the end of the legislative session, the legislature can make statutory changes that weaken the case for passing the initiative. Yet another criticism is that as the number of required signatures has risen in tandem with populations, \"initiatives have moved away from empowering the average citizen\" and toward becoming a tool for well-heeled special interests to advance their agendas. John Diaz wrote in an editorial for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" in 2008:\n\nIn some cases, voters have passed initiatives that were subsequently repealed or drastically changed by the legislature. For instance, legislation passed by the voters as an Arizonan medical cannabis initiative was subsequently gutted by the Arizona legislature. To prevent such occurrences, initiatives are sometimes used to amend the state constitution and thus prevent the legislature from changing it without sending a referendum to the voters; however, this produces the problems of inflexibility mentioned above. Accordingly, some states are seeking a middle route. For example, Colorado's Referendum O would require a two-thirds vote for the legislature to change statutes passed by the voters through initiatives, until five years after such passage. This would allow the legislature to easily make uncontroversial changes.\n\nAn objection not so much to the initiative concept, but to its present implementations, is that signature challenges are becoming a political tool, with state officials and opposing groups litigating the process, rather than simply taking the issue fight to voters. Signatures can be declared void based on technical omissions, and initiatives can be thrown out based on statistical samplings of signatures. Supporters lacking necessary funds to sustain legal battles can find their initiative taken off the ballot.\nLegislatures themselves may tighten already arduous requirements. E.g., while California or Oregon typically have dozens of ballot measures each year, Idaho has had 28 since the 1930s, of which twelve passed. The Idaho Legislature in 2013 however increased the geographical requirements for putting an initiative on the ballot after a trio of unpopular education laws (\"Students Come First\") were repealed by the voters. Despite the new requirement of the signatures of 6% of the registered voters in 18 of Idaho's 35 legislative districts before May, as of mid-April 2018 the drive to put the Medicaid gap before the voters on the November ballot (by way of their amending the state constitution, yea or nay) was well on its way to gathering the prerequisite number of signatures in the prerequisite number of legislative districts, much to the surprise of pundits. Ultimately the organizers had by the April 30 deadline delivered 60,000 signatures to county clerks' offices, which if verified are far more than the 56,192 required.\n\nSome proposed reforms include paying signature gatherers by the hour, rather than by the signature (to reduce incentives for fraud) and increasing transparency by requiring major financial backers of initiatives to be disclosed to potential signatories. Other proposals include having a \"cooling-off\" period after an initiative qualifies, in which the legislature can make the initiative unnecessary by passing legislation acceptable to the initiative's sponsors. It has also been proposed that proxy voting be combined with initiative and referendum to form a hybrid of direct democracy and representative democracy.\n\nThe national initiative is a proposal to amend the United States Constitution to allow ballot initiatives at the federal level.\n\nHealthy Democracy, and a similar organization in Washington State, proposed a Citizens' Initiative Review process. This brings together a representative cross-section of voters as a citizens' jury to question and hear from advocates and experts regarding a ballot measure; then deliberate and reflect together to come up with statements that support and/or oppose the measure. The state would organize such a review of each ballot measure, and include the panelists' statements in the voters' pamphlet. Since 2009, Healthy Democracy has led efforts to develop and refine the Citizens' Initiative Review process for use by Oregon voters .\n\nIn 2011, the Oregon Legislature approved House Bill 2634, legislation making the Citizens' Initiative Review a permanent part of Oregon elections. This marked the first time a legislature has made voter deliberation a formalized part of the election process. The CIR is a benchmark in the initiative reform and public engagement fields.\n\nEach state has individual requirements to qualify initiatives for the ballot. Generally, all 24 states and the District of Columbia follow steps similar to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39541782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39541782", "title": "Inputlog", "text": "Inputlog\n\nInputlog is one of the most used keyloggers. It enables researchers to observe the online writing process unobtrusively. It logs every input action that is used to produce a text, viz. keystrokes (incl. navigation keys), mouse movements and clicks and speech input via Dragon Naturally Speaking (Nuance). The program also provides a time stamp (in ms) and detailed information about the Windows environment that is activated (e.g. URL of a web page). Researchers can download the program from the Inputlog website for free (after registration).\n\nInputlog features five modules:\n"}
{"id": "3470813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3470813", "title": "Jisc", "text": "Jisc\n\nJisc (formerly the Joint Information Systems Committee) is a United Kingdom not-for-profit company whose role is to support post-16 and higher education, and research, by providing relevant and useful advice, digital resources and network and technology services, while researching and developing new technologies and ways of working. It is funded by a combination of the UK further and higher education funding bodies, and individual higher education institutions.\n\nJisc provide services in four core areas:\n\nThe UK's academic network, Janet, is provided by Jisc.\n\nZetoc is a service providing access to the British Library's table of contents, including more than 30,000 journals and 52 million articles and conferences papers, which is provided by JISC, free of charge to members of JISC-sponsored UK further or higher education establishments and UK research councils.\n\nJisc was established on 1 April 1993 under the terms of letters of guidance from the Secretaries of State to the newly established Higher Education Funding Councils for England, Scotland and Wales, inviting them to establish a Joint Committee to deal with networking and specialist information services. JISC was to provide national vision and leadership for the benefit of the entire Higher Education sector. The organisation inherited the functions of the Information Systems Committee (ISC) and the Computer Board, which had served universities. An initial challenge was to support a much larger community of institutions, including the ex-polytechnics and higher education colleges.\n\nFour sub-committees initially supporting the JISC committee: their remits covered Networking; Awareness, Liaison and Training; Electronic Information and Technology Applications activities.\n\nIn 1995, the Northern Ireland Department of Education became a full partner in JISC. The organisation expanded again in 1999 when the further education funding bodies became funding partners. This expansion prompted a restructuring and a new set of committees:\n\n\nThe expansion also raised wider concerns about JISC's governance, and Professor Sir Brian Follett was appointed to carry out an independent enquiry. His report, published in November 2000, concluded that \"JISC is perceived as a UK success story, providing a network of world-class standard and a range of excellent services. Importantly, it evolves continuously and is an excellent example of collaboration between the community and the funding bodies\". However, Follett made various recommendations for reform, most of which were accepted by the funding bodies.\n\nA new structure was therefore put in place from December 2001, consisting of a JISC Board, advised by a steering committee made up of senior officers from each funding body. Six sub-committees fell under two main heads: strategy and policy committees, which aim to ensure that the needs of specific communities are met (in the fields of research, learning and teaching, and management); and functional committees, concentrating on specific areas of work (networking, information environment, and content acquisition).\n\nIn January 2005, the Freedom of Information Act 2000 came into full effect, giving the public a general right to access all types of recorded information held by public bodies. JISC took an important lead in raising the Act's profile in the academic community and published its own FOI Publication Scheme.\n\nIn the spring of 2005, the Learning and Skills Council (LSC) announced a reduction in its funding contribution to JISC. The LSC and JISC Executive negotiated a package of services that the LSC would continue to contribute towards in the future.\n\nAlso in 2005, a number of strategies and policies for UK Higher and Further Education were published, reaffirming the importance of ICT: JISC was seen as taking an important role in supporting and implementing these strategies.\n\nIn the same year, JISC signed agreements with several international partners:\n\nUnder the Government Spending Review 2004, JISC was awarded additional funding of £81 million for the period April 2006 to March 2009, and was able to launch a range of new programmes to support the work of the higher education and research community. Funding for SuperJANET5 was provided by all JISC's funding partners. Other activities were funded by the Higher Education Funding Councils for England and Wales.\n\nA review of JISC's work, commissioned by the Higher Education Funding Council for England under the chairmanship of Professor Sir Alan Wilson, was published in February 2011. One of the principal findings of the review was that there is no comparable body to JISC within the UK, and internationally its reputation is outstanding as a strategic leader and partner. The Review concluded that, \"JISC is an invaluable national resource which has evolved in response to increasing demands over 20 years\". However, the Review also recommended that, due to the breadth and complexity of JISC's activity, its structure, processes, projects, programmes and governance need to be simplified and reshaped: \"[i]n an era of financial constraint, it is necessary to refocus activities around clearer priorities, and to ensure JISC operates with a sustainable financial model\".\n\nRonald Urwick Cooke, then recently retired as Vice-Chancellor of the University of York, was appointed Chair of JISC in 2004, and served until 2008. He was succeeded by Timothy O'Shea, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Edinburgh, who was appointed with effect from 1 January 2009. Martin Hall, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Salford served as Chair until 2015 when he was replaced by David Maguire, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Greenwich. From February 2012 the Chief Executive was Martyn Harrow, who was succeeded by Paul Feldman in October 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "49313787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49313787", "title": "Kielsen II Cabinet", "text": "Kielsen II Cabinet\n\nThe Second Cabinet of Kim Kielsen is the incumbent Government of Greenland, in office since 2 February 2016. It is a coalition majority government consisting of Siumut, Demokraatit and Atassut.\n\nThe Social Democratic Siumut has 5 ministers including the Prime Minister. The Social liberal Democrats has 2 ministers. The Liberalistic Solidarity has 2 ministers.\n\nParty breakdown of cabinet ministers:\n"}
{"id": "28392961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28392961", "title": "List of Cabinets of the Philippines", "text": "List of Cabinets of the Philippines\n\nThe following is a list of Cabinets of the Philippines by the President of the Philippines under which they operated.\n"}
{"id": "6199908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199908", "title": "List of conservative parties", "text": "List of conservative parties\n\nThis article gives information on conservatism in diverse countries around the world. It is an overview of parties that adhere more or less (explicitly) to the ideas of political conservatism and is therefore a list of conservative parties by United Nations geoscheme.\n\nThere is no such philosophy as worldwide conservativism. Conservativism between nations varies so immensely that a comparison is almost not possible.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3728915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3728915", "title": "Lusatian Alliance", "text": "Lusatian Alliance\n\nThe Lusatian Alliance (, Upper Sorbian language: Łužiska Alianca, Lower Sorbian language: Łužyska Alianca), formerly the Wendish People's Party (\"Serbska Ludowa Strona\", SLS) is a political party founded on 26 March 2005 in Cottbus to represent the Sorb/Wendish ethnic and linguistic minority (around 60,000 people) in the German states of Saxony and Brandenburg in the region of Lusatia. At its third party congress of 26 April 2010 in Cottbus, the party changed its name to the Lusatian Alliance. The party is a full member of the European Free Alliance.\n\nThe party founders consider it a successor of the Lusatia People's Party founded in 1919 (renamed \"Wendish People's Party\" in 1924) which was dissolved by the Nazi regime.\n\nThe party arose to take part in the 2008 municipal and district elections, the 2009 regional elections in Brandenburg and the 2009 municipal and regional elections in Saxony. \nThe Wendish Popular Party has been criticised by many Sorbs, for example the Domowina, as it is felt that the group could be better represented by the existing German parties.\n\nAnother party representing ethnic minorities at state level, the South Schleswig Voter Federation of Danes and Frisians, has gained regional and local representation in the state of Schleswig-Holstein, where it enjoys an exemption from the electoral threshold of 5% thanks to a German-Danish treaty of 1955. A similar exemption is mentioned in the Brandenburg constitution for the Sorb/Wendish minority, but not in Saxony. Accordingly, the party leaders have said that they need 7,000 votes in Brandenburg to gain a seat in the Landtag of Brandenburg.\n\nFor the September 28, 2008 local elections in Brandenburg, the party took part in the Spree-Neiße Kreis (district) elections on a ticket with the Klinge Runde Citizens Initiative as «Bürger für die Lausitz – Klinger Runde». The ticket gained two seats - out of 50 - at the district assembly. In several municipalities in the same district it had some candidates for the municipal elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "7570928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7570928", "title": "Michael S. Harper", "text": "Michael S. Harper\n\nMichael Steven Harper (March 18, 1938 – May 7, 2016) was an American poet and English professor at Brown University, who was the Poet Laureate of Rhode Island from 1988 to 1993. His poetry was influenced by jazz and history.\n\nAmong the influences which shaped his writing, he said that the most important lesson he learned from musicians was phrasing, the authenticity of phrasing, and the transcendence and spiritual mastery. He published ten books of poetry, two of which—\"Dear John, Dear Coltrane\" (1970) and \"Images of Kin\" (1977)—were nominated for the National Book Award. Many of his poems have been included as examples of African-American literature and jazz poetry in various anthologies.\n\nHarper was born in Brooklyn as the first of three children into a lower-middle-class black family. His maternal grandfather, Roland Johnson, was a well-respected Canadian physician and was the delivery doctor for Harper at their home. He was also the primary influence in his early decision to pursue pre-med at Los Angeles City College.\n\nHis father Walter (who went by his middle name, Warren) was the originator of \"overnight\" mail and worked as a post office supervisor. His mother Katherine Louise, née Johnson was a medical secretary. Of his parents Harper once remarked, \"My parents did not have much money, but they had a great record collection.\" This would of course later influence his work, blending poetry with jazz.\n\nHis younger brother Jonathan Paul was born in 1941 and died in a motorcycle accident in 1977. His younger sister, Katherine Winifred, was born in 1943. They grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant, a north-central portion of Brooklyn, until his family moved in 1951 to their homestead in Los Angeles, where he attended Dorsey High School. As a teenager, Harper was eager to get out of his father's house and into his own, marking his desire to work, create and learn on his own terms.\n\nIn 1955, he attended Los Angeles City College, initially enrolling in pre-med courses and later literature, graduating in 1959 with an associate of arts degree. At the Los Angeles State College of Applied Arts and Sciences (now California State University, Los Angeles, he earned a B.A. and an MA in English studies in 1961. While there he worked part-time in the post office and called this experience his \"real education\".\n\nHe joined the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa, where he largely resisted the movement of writing in syllabics, which he called \"incredibly mechanical\". During his time in Iowa City Harper said, \"Most of the things I learned…had nothing to do with the Workshop\" given the uprising of the Civil Rights Movement at that time. He earned an MFA in 1963.\n\nHe taught English at Contra Costa College in San Pablo, California and his poems appeared in small magazines. In 1968, he became poet in residence at Lewis & Clark College and taught at Reed College both in Portland, Oregon. Later that year, he entered a manuscript in the U.S. Poetry Prize Competition, submitted by Gwendolyn Brooks. Although he did not win, Brooks calls his work her “clear winner.” Harper said Brooks gave him his career. With Brooks behind him, his book was published by the University of Pittsburgh and reviewed in \"Time\" in 1970 with a cover essay by Ralph Ellison. In 1996 Brooks presented Harper with the George Kent Poetry Award for Honorable Amendments.\n\nIn 1970, he taught at California State College in Hayward, California. He joined the English faculty at Brown University, where he taught literature courses and poetry workshops to undergraduates. Students referred to him as \"MSH\", \"the Chief\", and \"the Big Man\". He remained there until retiring in December 2013 and was the longest serving professor of English and Literary Arts at that institution.\n\nIn 1993, Nathan A. Scott wrote in the \"Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics\" that \"Harper has created a body of work which, though it has won much respect and admiration, deserves to be far more widely known than it is.\"\n\nShortly after his retirement from Brown, former student George Makari remarked that Harper \"deeply entered our personal lives, challenged us to rethink who we thought we were, [and] asked us to leave behind childhood and enter a kind of creative crisis.\"\n\nHarper was married and had a daughter, Rachel, who is also a writer, and two sons, Roland and Patrice. He later divorced. He lived in Providence, Rhode Island until his death on May 7, 2016.\nHarper had two children who died at birth, which inspired several of his early poems, including the famous \"Nightmare Begins Responsibility\". .\n\nHarper wrote about important and historically influential African-Americans, including Jackie Robinson, Richard Wright and John Brown. He said in a 2000 interview with Terry Gross, that the most important thing he learned from musicians was phrasing, the authenticity of phrasing, and the transcendence and spiritual mastery.\n\nHarper often wrote about his wife, Shirley (commonly referred to as \"Shirl\"), their children, and their ancestors, as well as friends and various black historical and cultural figures. On poetry, Harper stated: \"A good poem is a true poem. Often it cannot be distilled into a slogan, or an easy thesis.\" This relates to much of his work, most notably \"Blue Ruth: America\" (1971) in which the nation is portrayed in a hospital bed. In a 2009 interview, he commented on the need for public rhetoric, noting that people had trouble with President Barack Obama because he spoke about consequential things when most were used to \"sound bites\".\nPoetry accompanied by jazz music:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17140321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17140321", "title": "Ministry of Health (Chile)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Chile)\n\nThe Ministry of Health of Chile (), also known as MINSAL, is the cabinet-level administrative office in charge of planning, directing, coordinating, executing, controlling and informing the public health policies formulated by the President of Chile. Notably, all employees pay 7% of their monthly income to FONASA, the funding branch of the Chilean Ministry of Health.\n\nThe current Minister of Health is Emilio Santelices Cuevas. The minister has two adjunts: the Undersecretary of Public Health (), currently Paula Daza, and the Undersecretary of Assistance Networks (), currently Gloria Burgos.\n\nIn 1808, the Committee of Vaccines () was founded, and then in 1832 the Board of Directors of Hospitals () began operations. Both organizations were precursors of what would become the modern institutions of public health. In 1907, a division charged with the administration of public hygiene was created under the Ministry of the Interior (). Then on October 14, 1924, this division was made into the cabinet-level Ministry of Hygiene, Social Assistance and Welfare (), with the same function (Decree No. 44, 1924). In 1927 all the ministries underwent an important restructuring; with these change it became the Ministry of Social Welfare (), and was charged with, as well as the coordination of public health policies, the investigation of the application of laws relating to society, public welfare, and social security.\n\nIn 1932, it was once again renamed, becoming the Ministry of Public Health (), then the Ministry of Public Health, Social Assistance and Welfare () in 1936, and later the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare () in 1953. \n\nIn 1959, the ministry was divided into the Ministry of Public Health (), the modern form of the ministry, and, assuming the functions regulating the welfare of Chileans, the Ministry of Work and Social Welfare (). \n\nFinally, from 1973 to 1979, the internal structure of the ministry, now simply the Ministry of Health, was reorganized, creating services such as the National Health Fund (), or FONASA.\n\nCurrently under the Ministry are the following public institutions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26597571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26597571", "title": "Ministry of Health (Malaysia)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Malaysia)\n\nThe Ministry of Health (), abbreviated MOH, is a ministry of the Government of Malaysia that is responsible for health system: health behavior, cancer, public health, health management, medical research, health systems research, respiratory medicine, health promotion, healthcare tourism, medical device, blood collection, leprosy control, clinical research, health care, dental care, health institution, laboratory, pharmaceutical, patient safety.\n\nThe Minister of Health administers his functions through the Ministry of Health and a range of other government agencies. The current Minister of Health is Dr. Dzulkefly Ahmad, who was appointed by Prime Minister Tun Dr. Mahathir on 18 May 2018. \n\nIts headquarters is located in Putrajaya.\n\n\n\nThe Ministry of Health is responsible for administration of several key Acts: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21889488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21889488", "title": "Ministry of War (Kingdom of Bavaria)", "text": "Ministry of War (Kingdom of Bavaria)\n\nThe Ministry of War () was a ministry for military affairs of the Kingdom of Bavaria, founded as \"Ministerium des Kriegswesens\" on October 1, 1808 by King Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria. It was located on the Ludwigstraße in Munich. Today the building, which was built by Leo von Klenze between 1824 and 1830, houses the Bavarian public record office, \"Bayerisches Hauptstaatsarchiv und Staatsarchiv München\".\n\nThe ministry was the successional institution of the royal Bavarian \"Hofkriegsrat\" (court war council, founded in 1620) and its follow-on institutions that were responsible for the military:\n\nThe name of the \"Ministerium des Kriegswesens\" changed to \"Staatsministerium der Armee\" in 1817, and finally to \"Kriegsministerium\" in 1825.\n\nFrom 1801 to 1817, King Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria by himself held full command of the Bavarian Army. In 1817 General von Triva was made the real head of the Ministry by him, but the administration of justice and economics of the military was part of the \"Oberadministrativkollegium\" and the \"Generallazarettinspektion\". In 1822 Maximilian I assigned General von Wrede as commander-in-chief of the army, and the \"Staatsministerium der Armee\" also became responsible for the administration of justice and economics. After 1829 the tasks and responsibilities of the supreme command of the army (Oberkommando, existing from 1822 to 1829) were transferred to the Minister of War, so that he was additionally commander-in-chief of the army. After acquiring command of the army, the Bavarian war minister had far more extensive responsibilities compared to ministers of other countries, such as the Prussian Minister of War. After the breakdown of the Bavarian kingdom in 1918, the Kriegsministerium was replaced by the \"Ministerium für militärische Angelegenheiten\" (ministry of military affairs).\n\nDue to the Weimar Constitution, from 1919 onwards the Bavarian Ministry of Transport and the Ministry for Military Affairs were both disbanded. The former archive of the ministry, which was founded in 1885, became a section of the \"Bayerisches Hauptstaatsarchiv und Staatsarchiv München\". The military troops of Bavaria were subordinated to the Reichswehr, which was under the command of the Reichspräsident. Therefore, the Ministry of War was replaced by the \"Reichswehrbefehlsstelle Bayern\" (Reichswehr commanding office Bavaria) until September 1919.\n"}
{"id": "47075395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47075395", "title": "Mongolian Liberal Union Party", "text": "Mongolian Liberal Union Party\n\nMongolian Liberal Union Party (, ) is a party which aims to separate Inner Mongolia (Southern Mongolia) from China.\n\nThe party was started in 2006 in Osaka Prefecture, Japan. The current leader is Olhunud Daichin.\n"}
{"id": "12326085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12326085", "title": "Monirith Chhea", "text": "Monirith Chhea\n\nMonirith Chhea (1960s -) is a Cambodian- American artist from Phnom Penh. He is cited as one of the notable Cambodian-American artists who has worked with charcoal. The Art and Culture Program of Sido mentions Chhea as an example of Khmer art along with Narath Tan, Svay Pithoubandith\nand Emmanuel Nhean. In 2010 he appeared in the documentary \"\", a grim account of those who fled Cambodia during the Khmer Rouge.\n\nFacing starvation and torture from the Khmer Rouge, by the age of ten he separated from his family in a labor camp and later in a refugee camp in Thailand. Eventually he came to live in California whilst his family immigrated to Canada. He began a career as an artist as a way to deal with his suffering. His paintings and drawings generally symbolize negative themes such as starvation, sickness, and death.\n\nOne of his early charcoal drawings, \"Childhood\", completed in 1988, is of faceless Khmer Rouge soldier, represented as a demon-like figure. The largest of his oil paintings, \"Seven Women in the Field\", completed in 1990, depicts seven Cambodian women dressed in Khmer Rouge uniforms including black clothes with the red cotton cloth called \"Krama\" on their heads. They each represent a day of the week, and their long red shadows represent their difficult struggle to endure the harsh working conditions which life has dealt them. Another larger oil painting, \"Boys in the Field\", completed in 1991, depicts starved young boys working as slaves, struggling to carry heavy bags of rice. The blue sky and the large palm trees in the background represent hope.\n\nIn 1993 he completed the small oil painting \"Re-Education\", using images of skulls to represent those murdered at the Killing Fields; the bright colors such as red and orange around the skulls represents the blood which was shed during the massacres of the regime. However his work occasionally covers happier subject matter. His oil painting entitled \"Peasants Gathering Rice\", completed in 1990, relays his early childhood memories of happier times when he would travel with his father to the Cambodian countryside to visit the farm they once owned with the peasants, farming rice. In 1994 he showcased his work at the Blue Moon Studio and Art Gallery in Skokie, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "18728033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18728033", "title": "Mosaic theory (investments)", "text": "Mosaic theory (investments)\n\nThe Mosaic theory in finance is a method used in security analysis to analyze information about a corporation.\n\nUnder insider trading laws, analysts may not use material non-public information to help select their trades. But traders \"might\" be able to piece together non-material non-public information and material public information into a mosaic, which may increase in value when properly compiled and documented. The theory is also referred to more colloquially as the \"scuttlebutt method\" by Philip Fisher in \"Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits\".\n\nMosaic theory involves collecting information from different sources, public and private, to calculate the value of security. Applying the mosaic theory is as much art as it is science. An analyst gleans as many pieces of information as possible, determines if they tell a story that makes sense, and decides whether to recommend a trade. During the high-profile trial of investor Raj Rajaratnam, defense attorneys used the mosaic theory to argue against allegations of insider trading. These arguments were ultimately unsuccessful and Rajaratnam was convicted and sentenced to serve eleven years in prison. \n\nIt is also a legal theory used to uphold the classification of information, holding that a collection of unclassified information might add up into a classified whole. The theory has also been applied to legal reasoning in the context of the Fourth Amendment where the continuous use of GPS surveillance was found to violate the subject's \"reasonable expectation of privacy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "54226196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54226196", "title": "National Directorate of Intelligence (Peru)", "text": "National Directorate of Intelligence (Peru)\n\nThe National Directorate of Intelligence (), or (DINI), is the premier intelligence agency in Peru. The agency is responsible for national, military and police intelligence, as well as counterintelligence.\n\nOn 27 January 1960, the National Intelligence Service (SIN) was established. Following the presidency of Alberto Fujimori and controversies surrounding SIN, the agency was \"deactivated\" in November 2000. Under the regulation of Supreme Decree Nº 025-2006-PCM of 4 January 2006, the National Directorate of Intelligence (DINI) was established.\n"}
{"id": "630234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630234", "title": "Palmach", "text": "Palmach\n\nThe Palmach (Hebrew: , acronym for \"Plugot Maḥatz\" (Hebrew: ), lit. \"strike forces\") was the elite fighting force of the Haganah, the underground army of the Yishuv (Jewish community) during the period of the British Mandate for Palestine. The Palmach was established on 15 May 1941. By the outbreak of the Israeli War of Independence it consisted of over 2,000 men and women in three fighting brigades and auxiliary aerial, naval and intelligence units. With the creation of Israel's army, the three Palmach Brigades were disbanded. This and political reasons compelled many of the senior Palmach officers to resign in 1950.\n\nThe Palmach contributed significantly to Israeli culture and ethos, well beyond its military contribution. Its members formed the backbone of the Israel Defense Forces high command for many years, and were prominent in Israeli politics, literature and culture.\n\nThe Palmach was established by the Haganah High Command on 14 May 1941. Its aim was to defend the Palestinian Jewish community against two potential threats. Firstly the occupation of Palestine by the Axis in the event of their victory over the British in North Africa. Secondly, if the British army were to retreat from Palestine, Jewish settlements might come under attack from the Arab population. Yitzhak Sadeh was named as Palmach commander. Initially the group consisted of around one hundred men. In the early summer of 1941 the British military authorities agreed to joint operations against Vichy French forces in Lebanon and Syria. The first action was a sabotage mission against oil installations at Tripoli, Lebanon. Twenty-three Palmach members and a British liaison officer set out by sea but were never heard of again. On 8 June mixed squads of Palmach and Australians began operating in Lebanon and Syria. The success of these operations led the British GHQ to fund a sabotage training camp for three hundred men at Mishmar HaEmek. Since the Palmach consisted of unpaid volunteers, the funding was used to cover the needs of twice that number of men. When the British ordered the dismantling of Palmach after the Allied victory at the Second Battle of El Alamein in 1942, the organization went underground.\n\nSince British funding had stopped, Yitzhak Tabenkin, head of the kibbutz union HaKibbutz HaMeuhad, suggested the Palmach could be self-funding by having its members work in the kibbutzim. Each kibbutz would host a Palmach platoon and supply them with food, homes and resources. In return the platoon would safeguard the kibbutz and carry out work such as agricultural work. The proposal was accepted in August 1942, when it was also decided that each month Palmach members would have eight training days, 14 work days and seven days off. The program of combined military training, agricultural work and Zionist education was called \"Hach'shara Meguyeset\" הכשרה מגויסת (meaning \"Drafted/Recruited Training\"). Later, Zionist youth movements offered members aged of 18–20 an opportunity to join core groups (gar'in) for agricultural settlement that became the basis for the Nahal.\n\nBasic training included physical fitness, small arms, mêlée and KAPAP, basic marine training, topography, first aid and squad operations. Most of the Palmach members received advance training in one or more of the following areas: sabotage and explosives, reconnaissance, sniping, communications and radio, light and medium machine guns, and operating 2-inch and 3-inch mortars. Platoon training included long marches, combined live-fire drills with artillery support and machine guns and mortars.\n\nThe Palmach put great emphasis on training independent and broadminded field commanders who would take the initiative and set an example for their troops. It trained squad commanders and company commanders. The major commanders training course was in the Palmach and many Haganah commanders were sent to be trained in the Palmach. The Palmach commanders' course was the source for many field commanders, who were the backbone of Haganah and, later, the Israel Defense Forces.\n\nFor seven months after the assassination of Lord Moyne, members of the Palmach under the command of Shimon Avidan were involved in the Saison Operation, in which they cooperated with the British in an attempt to crush the Irgun and Stern Gang. But with David Ben-Gurion's decision, 1 October 1945, to launch an armed struggle against the British, the Palmach entered an alliance with the dissident groups, called The Hebrew Resistance Movement. On 10 October 1945 a force led by Yitzhak Rabin raided the prison at Atlit freeing 208 Jewish prisoners. The first joint operation took place on 31 October 1945 when the Palmach sank three British patrol boats, 2 in Haifa and one in Jaffa, and were involved in 153 bomb attacks on bridges and culverts of the railway system.\n\nOn the night of 22 February 1946 the Palmach attacked the Police Tegart fort at Shefa-'Amr with a 200-pound bomb; in the firefight that followed, the Palmach suffered casualties. In June 1946 the Palmach blew up ten of the eleven bridges connecting Palestine to its neighbouring countries. Fourteen Palmach members were killed during the attack on Achziv Bridge.\n\nThe alliance was never completely under Haganah control and the Irgun launched a series of ever more ruthless attacks culminating in the King David Hotel bombing. This attack was the Irgun's response to a British crackdown, \"Black Sabbath\", launched on 29 June 1946. A combination of the crackdown and the Jewish civilian leadership's outrage at the King David attack led Ben-Gurion to call off further Palmach operations.\n\nAfter a gap of over ten months the Palmach resumed operations. The one weapon of which there was no shortage was locally produced explosives. On 20 May 1947 they blew up a coffee house in Fajja, specifically in retaliation for the murder of two Jews in nearby Petah Tikva. Following the escalation of violence after the UN Partition Resolution the scale of the retaliation operations increased.\n\nOn 18 December 1947, in an operation approved by Palmach commander Yigal Allon, several houses were blown up in al-Khisas, near the Lebanese border; a dozen civilians were killed. On 31 December 1947 170 men from the Palmach launched an attack on Balad al-Sheikh, Haifa, in retaliation for the killing of 47 Jews at the Haifa oil refinery. Several dozen houses were destroyed and 60 villagers left for dead.\n\nAround Jaffa, Palmach units destroyed houses in Yazur and Salama. An order dated 3 January 1948 said \"The aim is ... to attack northern part of the village of Salama ... to cause deaths, to blow up houses and to burn everything possible.\" In the Upper Galilee, the Palmach's third Battalion commanded by Moshe Kelman, attacked Sa'sa', 15 February, and blew up ten houses, killing 11 villagers. Further north, they raided al-Husayniyya, 16 March 1948, in retaliation for a land mine, they blew up five houses and killed \"30 Arab adults\". In the Northern Negev, 4 April 1948, a Palmach unit in two armoured cars destroyed \"nine bedouin lay-bys and one mud hut\" after a mine attack on a Jewish Patrol.\n\nDuring this period, in the event known as the Convoy of 35, the Palmach lost 18 men (along with 17 other Haganah fighters) on their way to reinforce the garrison at Kfar Etzion after they were attacked by hundreds of Arab locals and militias. The bodies of the Palmach and Haganah fighters were mutilated to the point that some of them could not be recognized.\n\nOn 20 February 1948 the Palmach launched an operation in Caesarea, North of Tel Aviv, in which they demolished 30 houses, six were left standing due to lack of explosives. The objective was to prevent them being occupied by British troops as a base against illegal immigrants. Yitzhak Rabin opposed the attack. Although occupied by Arabs the buildings were Jewish owned.\n\nWith the activation of Plan D and its sub-operations Palmach units were used to demolish villages with the objective of preventing them being used by Palestinian irregulars or the ALA as bases.\n\nFollowing the attempt to clear the road to Jerusalem, Palmach units \"more or less systematically leveled the villages of al-Qastal, Qalinya, Khuda and largely or partly destroyed Beit Surik, Biddu, Shu'fat, Beit Iksa, Beit Mahsir and Sheikh Jarrah (Jerusalem)\".\n\nOn 9 April a Palmach unit with mortars took part in the Irgun attack on Deir Yassin.\n\nFollowing the failed ALA attack on the Haganah base at Mishmar Ha'amek, and the Haganah's refusal of an offer of a truce, Haganah and Palmach troops counterattacked. Between 8 and 14 April ten villages came under Palmach control. Within two weeks they were leveled.\n\nAccording to Walid Khalidi, the objective of this operation, under the command of Yigal Allon, was to clear upper Galilee of its Arab population. The operation log book, 4 May 1948, states \"blow up the houses and burn all the bedouin tents\". Typical of the attacks was that on Mughr al-Khayt whose residents fled after a night of bombardment on 2 May 1948. Also on 2 May, the Palmach 3rd Battalion, commanded by Moshe Kelman, attacked Ein al-Zeitun with a Davidka, two 3-inch mortars and eight 2-inch mortars. During the following two days Palmach sappers blew up and burned all the houses. In the aftermath of the capture of this village Battalion Commander Kelman ordered the execution of seventy prisoners.\n\nOn 6 May the Palmach launched an attack on Safad. It failed to capture the citadel and the Palmach had to withdraw. The defenders offered a cease-fire, which Allon refused. A second attack was launched on 9 May. This was preceded by a \"massive concentrated barrage\" using mortars and Davidkas. The empty Arab quarter of Safad was occupied on 11 May. Between 12,000 and 15,000 refugees had been created.\n\nThe Palmach suffered 69 killed during Operation Yiftah.\n\nIn May 1948 the Palmach had 2,200 permanently mobilised members. A different source puts the size of the Palmach as 3,000 at the end of November 1947, and, following the mobilization of 3,000 reserves, five battalions were formed by May 1948, consisting of 5,000 fighters of whom 1,200 were women.\n\nPalmach units took a major part in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. At the beginning of the war, Palmach units were responsible for holding Jewish settlements (such as Gush Etzion, Kfar Darom and Revivim) against Arab militias. Although inferior in numbers and arms, Palmach soldiers held out long enough to allow the Haganah to mobilise the Jewish population and prepare for war.\n\nThe Palmach's last operation as an independent unit was against the Irgun, in the Altalena Affair. On 22 June 1948 the Irgun moored the Altalena, loaded with weapons, off Tel Aviv. Ben-Gurion ordered the Palmach to prevent the arms being landed. In an operation commanded by Yigal Allon, with Yitzhak Rabin as his deputy, a cannon was used to sink the ship. One member of the Palmach and fourteen members of the Irgun were killed.\n\nAfter the establishment of the Israeli army, the Palmach was reorganised into three IDF brigades—the Negev Brigade, the Yiftach Brigade, and the Harel Brigade. The Negev and Yiftah Brigades fought in the Negev against the Egyptian army and managed to stop and later repulse it into the Gaza Strip and Sinai. The Yiftah Brigade was later transferred to the north. The Harel Brigade was centered on Jerusalem. The merging of the Palmach into the Israeli army involved a series of power struggles with Ben-Gurion, known as The Generals' Revolt. In 1949 many senior members of the Palmach resigned from the army.\n\nIn total, the Palmach lost 1,187 fighters during the war of independence and in the years prior to Israel's creation.\n\nThe Palmach memorial site records 37 deaths of Palmach members between May 1941 and May 1945. Thirty-one are described as killed in action, six were killed while serving in the British Army and six were killed in the \"Struggle against the British Government\".\n\nA further 39 members of the Palmach died between the May 1945 and November 1947. Twenty-one are recorded as killed in action and one killed in battle, fourteen being killed during the attempt to blow up the Achziv Bridge during the Night of the Bridges. Twenty-eight died in the struggle against the British.\n\nBetween the beginning of December 1947 and the end of May 1948, when the Israeli army was created, 574 deaths are listed, of whom 524 were killed in action or in battle; 77 while on convoy duty or securing roads; 59 during Operation Yevusi, including 34 at Nabi Samuel; 20 during Operation Nachshon, all at al-Qastal; 68 during Operation Yiftach; 12 at Mishmar HaEmek. By district 171 members of the Palmach were killed in Jerusalem and the surrounding area, 104 in and around Gush Etzion, 103 in the Galilee and 81 in the Negev.\n\nFrom June 1948 to December 1949, during which time the Palmach was absorbed into the army, 527 members died, 452 killed in action or in battle; 101 were killed during Operation Danny, including 45 at Khirbet Kurikur; 53 during Operation Yoav; 44 in Operation Horev and 22 during Operation Death to the Invader. By district 234 died in the Negev and Southern Plain; 62 in Jerusalem and surrounds; 44 around Latrun; 42 in the Gaza Strip and 41 in the Central Plain and Coastal Strip.\n\nBy Brigade, 313 members of the Harel Brigade were killed, 312 from the Negev and 274 from the Yiftach. One of the dead is listed as also being a member of the Lechi.\n\nThe Palmach memorial site records the death of 34 female members, seventeen killed in action or in battle.\n\nAround 520 of the fatalities had been born in Palestine; of whom 117 were from Tel Aviv, 97 from Jerusalem and 56 from Haifa. Over 550 had been born in Europe and Russia; with 181 from Poland, 99 from Germany and 95 from Romania. Another 131 of the dead originated from Arab and Muslim countries; 32 from Turkey, 23 from Syria and 21 from the Yemen. Of the remainder 13 had been born in the USA.\n\nOf the dead, 633 were aged between 18 and 22 years, 302 were between 22 and 25, 138 were 26 and over, and 91 were under 18 years of age.\n\nThe Palmach was organised into regular companies (six in 1943), and five or six special units.\n\nPalmach special units included:\n\n\nThe Palmach put an emphasis on training field commanders (מפקדי שטח) and formed the basis for the Israeli army.\n\nDuring the 1948–49 War of Independence the Palmach was expanded to form three infantry brigades commanded by Yigal Allon:\n\n\nThe Command Battalion controlled naval, air and commando companies.\n\nThe battle cry of the Palmach commander was \"!אחרי\" (\"Aharai\"), which literally means \"after me!\" or \"follow me!\". It refers to the commander leading his troops instead of sending them out and staying behind.\n\nThe Palmach was a broad spectrum left-wing nationalist organisation, associated with socialist parties. Its members trained and lived in kibbutzim. The political tendencies of its leaders such as Yigal Allon and Yitzhak Sadeh was towards Mapam, a left-wing party in opposition to David Ben-Gurion and the Mapai ruling party. In 1944 a major split had occurred in Palestine's Jewish community's dominant party, Mapai, led by David Ben-Gurion. The breakaway group, which evolved into Mapam, were inspired by Stalin's regime in the Soviet Union, and had a strong following in the kibbutz movement. Since most of the Palmach's members came from the kibbutzim, the Mapam dominated the Palmach, with a majority of its officers being members. After 1948 Ben-Gurion, Prime Minister and Minister of Defence of the new state, had a series of confrontations with leaders of the Haganah and the Palmach. In a process that Ben-Gurion described as de-politicizing the army, the three Palmach brigades were disbanded and in 1950 most of the Mapam officers resigned. Those Palmach members who had been in Mapam and remained in the army had to endure several years on the margins. The effect of the de-politicizing was that all senior army posts were held by Mapai members or Ben-Gurion loyalists. After demobilization many Palmach members founded new kibbutzim. In 1949 they set up Bar'am, Beit Guvrin, Nir Yitzhak (named in honour of Yitzhak Sadeh), Palmachim, Re'im, Rosh HaNikra, Re'im and Yir'on. Palmach members were not, however, a unified, homogeneous collective with a single ideology. In the early years of the state of Israel they could be found in all political parties.\n\nYigal Allon, considered by many to be the representative of the Palmach generation, never reached a position of national leadership although he was Prime Minister for a few days between Eshkol's death and Meir's appointment in 1969. He died in 1980.\n\nBesides military contributions, the Palmach had great influence over the Israeli \"Tzabar\" culture. Palmach activities included \"Kumzitz\" (sitting around a fire at night, eating, talking and having fun), public singing and cross-country walking trips. These often took on mythical proportions and have become favorite activities for Israelis.\n\nThe Palmach also contributed many anecdotes, jokes, \"chizbat\" (short funny tales, often based on exaggerations), songs and even books and stories.\n\nNotable Palmach cultural figures include:\n\nFull text of the song:\n\n\n\nThe Palmach Museum, located on Chaim Levanon Street in Tel Aviv, near the Eretz Israel Museum, explores the Palmach legacy through the stories of individuals and groups. Visitors to the museum join the group of young Palmach recruits from its establishment, and advanced through the story of the Palmach until the end of the War of Independence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8002182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8002182", "title": "People's Militias (Czechoslovakia)", "text": "People's Militias (Czechoslovakia)\n\nPeople's Militias (in Slovak \"Ľudové milície\", in Czech \"Lidové milice\"), also called The Armed Fist of the Working Class (in Slovak \"Ozbrojená päsť robotníckej triedy\", in Czech \"Ozbrojená pěst dělnické třídy\") was a militia organisation of Communist Party of Czechoslovakia between 1948 and 1989.\n\nThe predecessor of militias were armed groups of factory workers (\"Závodní milice\", factory militias) formed in June 1945 to protect the factories during the post-war chaos. In 1946 they were renamed \"Závodní stráže\" (\"factory guards\") and their equipment reduced to pistols.\n\nIn the middle of February 1948 the central committee of the Communist Party decided to form armed units from Communist Party members and supporters. On February 21, 1948 these units were renamed \"Dělnické milice\" (\"Worker's Militias\"). The militias were hastily equipped and set on alert during the communist takeover of power at the end of February. The name was soon changed to \"People's Militias\".\n\nThe task of the militias was to protect against guerrillas expected to appear after the takeover, against undercover agents sent to Czechoslovakia and to cooperate with the police and the army. About 3,000 militiamen joined police forces. Non-communists were slowly removed from the militias. The control over the militias went to the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nIn 1952 the official status of the militias changed to being the armed part of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia and control passed to the Communist Party (to the newly established departments at the central committee); also the organisational structure was changed. In 1959 a grey uniform was introduced.\n\nToward the end of the 1980s, political tensions in Czechoslovakia increased and the militias, equipped with batons, were frequently deployed to disperse demonstrations against the regime. In 1989, 38,985 militiamen participated in this activity.\n\nAfter the communist party's fall from power at the end of 1989, the militias were dissolved on December 21, 1989.\n\nDuring February 1948 the militias obtained 10,000 rifles and 2,000 submachine guns from the armament factory Zbrojovka Brno. The equipment was continually modernized with sniper rifles, machine guns, mortars, anti-aircraft machine guns and transport vehicles. The ammunition was kept in army stores. During the 1970s recoilless guns and RPG-7 were added among the armament. After dissolution of the militias their equipment was handed over to the army.\n\n20,067 pistols (with over 4 millions rounds)\n71,054 submachine guns (with over 62 million rounds)\n6,890 machine guns (with over 16 million rounds)\n130 anti-aircraft machine guns (over one million rounds)\n358 mortars\n149 recoilless guns\n2,177 trucks and motorcycles\n2,031 hand grenades\n\nSimilar formations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2897436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2897436", "title": "Political funding in Japan", "text": "Political funding in Japan\n\nIn Japan, the problem of political funding was intensely debated during the late 1980s and early 1990s, partly as a result of revelations following the Recruit scandal of 1988-89. The scandal arose as a result of the dealings of Ezoe Hiromasa, the ambitious chairman of the board of the Recruit Corporation (a professional search service that had diversified into finance and real estate and had become involved in politics), who sold large blocks of untraded shares in a subsidiary, Recruit Cosmos, to seventy-six individuals. When the stock was traded over the counter in 1986, its price jumped, earning individual investors as much as ¥100 million in after-sales profits. The persons involved included the most influential leaders of the LDP (usually through their aides or spouses) and a smaller number of opposition party figures. Although such insider trading was not strictly illegal, it caused public outrage at a time when the ruling party was considering a highly controversial consumption tax. Before the scandal ran its course, Takeshita Noboru was obliged to resign as prime minister in April 1989, a senior aide committed suicide in expiation for his leader's humiliation, and former Prime Minister Nakasone Yasuhiro resigned from the LDP—becoming an \"independent\" Diet member—to spare the much-tainted party further shame.\n\nRegarding the background issue of political funding, a group of parliamentarians belonging to the ruling LDP estimated in 1987 that annual expenses for ten newly elected members of the Diet averaged ¥120 million each, or about US$800,000. This figure, which included expenses for staff and constituent services in a member's home district, including local supporters, was less than the average for Diet members as a whole, because long-term incumbents tended to incur higher expenses. Yet in the late 1980s, the government provided each Diet member with only ¥20 million for annual operating expenses, leaving ¥100 million to be obtained through private contributions, political party faction bosses, or other means. The lack of public funding meant that politicians—especially, but not exclusively, members of the LDP— needed constant infusions of cash or milk money to stay in office.\n\nMaintaining staff and offices in Tokyo and the home district constituted the biggest expense for Diet members. Near-obligatory attendance at the weddings and funerals of constituents and their families, however, was another large financial drain: the Japanese custom requires that attendees contribute cash, handed over discreetly in elaborately decorated envelopes, to the parents of the bride and groom or to the bereaved.\n\nAfter revelations of corrupt activities forced the resignation of Prime Minister Tanaka Kakuei, postwar Japan's most skillful practitioner of \"money politics,\" in 1974, the 1948 Political Funds Control Law was amended to establish ceilings for contributions from corporations, other organizations, and individuals. This change forced Diet members to seek a larger number of smaller contributions to maintain cash flow. Fund-raising parties to which tickets were sold were a major revenue source during the 1980s, and the abuse of these ticket sales became a public concern. Another related problem was the secrecy surrounding political funds and their use. Although many politicians, including members of newly appointed cabinets, voluntarily disclosed their personal finances, such disclosure is not compulsory and many sources of revenue remain obscure.\n\nProposals for system reform in the early 1990s included compulsory full disclosure of campaign funding, more generous public allowances for Diet members to reduce (or, ideally, to eliminate) their reliance on under-the-table contributions, and stricter penalties for violators, including lengthy periods of being barred from running for public office. Some commentators advocated replacement of the lower house's multiple-seat election district system with single-seat constituencies like those found in Britain and the United States. It was argued that the multiple-seat districts made election campaigning more expensive because party members from the same district had to compete among themselves for the votes of the same constituents. It was hoped that the smaller size of single-seat districts would also reduce the expense of staff, offices, and constituent services. Critics argued, however, that the creation of single-seat constituencies would virtually eliminate the smaller opposition parties and would either create a United States-style two-party system or give the LDP an even greater majority in the lower house than it enjoyed under the multiple-seat system.\n\nIn contrast with multimillion-dollar United States political campaigns, direct expenses for the comparatively short campaigns before Japanese general, upper house, and local elections are relatively modest. The use of posters and pamphlets is strictly regulated, and candidates appear on noncommercial public television stations, NHK, to give short campaign speeches. Most of this activity is publicly funded. Campaign sound-trucks weave their way through urban and rural streets, often bombarding residents with earsplitting harangues from candidates or their supporters. No politician, however, can expect to remain in office without considering expenses for constituent services, the most important component of campaign expenses.\n\nIn the summer of 1993, the LDP government of Miyazawa Kiichi was brought down largely as a result of its failure to pass effective political reform legislation. The minority government of Hosokawa Morihiro that succeeded it proposed legislation to ban direct contributions by companies or unions to parliamentary candidates and to reform the diet. Public funding of political parties was strengthened, giving each party 250 Yen for each vote it attained.\n\nA new electoral system was installed: The lower house was divided between 300 single-seat constituencies and 200 seats distributed by proportional representation. Candidates on the proportional representation bloc were elected from 11 regional voting blocs, where the party was given a vote. When the LDP gained power again in 1996, large parts of the reform were kept, but the representation bloc was shrunk to 180 seats in the year 2000.\n\nBoth critics and advocates of the new system were largely proven right, while there is less political infighting between candidates of one party (unless there is a real difference in opinion, such as the postal privatization issue), the system also reduced the number of small parties. The LDP remained dominant in a coalition government with the New Komeito party, until the Democratic Party of Japan seized power in 2009 under the leadership of Yukio Hatoyama.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2211815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2211815", "title": "Provisional Government of National Unity", "text": "Provisional Government of National Unity\n\nThe Provisional Government of National Unity ( or TRJN) was a government formed by a decree of the State National Council (, KRN) on 28 June 1945. It was created as a coalition between the Polish Workers' Party (, PPR; Communists) and Stanisław Mikołajczyk, former Prime Minister of the Polish government-in-exile.\n\nWhen Poland was conquered by Germany in 1939, members of the government escaped to Britain, where they established a government-in-exile, which was recognized by the British government, and controlled the main Polish resistance force, the \"Armia Krajowa\" (Home Army).\n\nIn 1943, the PPR and some other left-wing resistance groups formed the KRN as a national government of Poland, in rivalry to the exile government. In July 1944, the KRN proclaimed the Provisional Government of the Republic of Poland (the \"Lublin Committee\") in territory liberated from Germany by the Soviet Army. The exile government denounced this, but was powerless to interfere, especially after the \"Armia Krajowa\" was largely destroyed in the 1944 Warsaw Uprising.\n\nThe exile government was dependent on the support of the British and American governments, which did not grasp Communist intentions and pressured the exile government to cooperate with the KRN. By the time of the Yalta Conference in February 1945, Soviet forces had overrun nearly all of Poland, giving them and the KRN effective control. The US and Britain tacitly accepted this at Yalta, in return for Stalin's promise of free elections in Poland.\n\nThe Polish exile government still tried to hold out, but was ignored. A group including Stanisław Mikołajczyk, Prime Minister in 1943-1944, broke with the rest of the exiles and began seeking a deal with the Communists.\n\nThe TRJN was a result of the negotiations held in Moscow from 17 June to 21 June, 1945, between the PPR (Polish Communists), the Soviet Union, and Mikołajczyk, who had created the Polish People's Party (\"Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe\", PSL) as the political vehicle for his participation. The PSL was a centrist organization and continuation of the prewar Polish agrarian movement. The pre-war People's Party also supported Mikołajczyk.\n\nThe TRJN government was composed of:\n\nThe entire government was composed of:\n\nThe exile government did not recognize the TRJN.\n\nThe Communists had no intention of giving the opposition any real power, or carrying out the promised 'free and fair' elections. The members of the opposition that received government positions were kept in check by their deputies and staff, loyal to the Communists, so they had little real power.\n\nOn 21 June, General Leopold Okulicki, former Commander of the Polish Home Army was sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment in Moscow for the alleged sabotage against the Soviet Army. Ten other Poles were given similar sentences in the staged Trial of the Sixteen. On 24 December 1946, Okulicki died in Butyrka prison.\n\nThe TRJN was already bound by the \"Treaty of Friendship, Mutual Help, and Cooperation\" with the USSR which the Provisional Government had signed on 21 April. This treaty formed the basis for Soviet interference in Poland's internal politics for the next 40 years.\n\nOn 5 July 1945, the TRJN was recognized by the United States. It was soon also recognized by the other major Allies, France and the United Kingdom. It was not recognized by the Vatican.\n\nOn 6 July, while the Polish government-in-exile maintained its existence, both the United States and the United Kingdom formally withdrew the recognition of it.\n\nOn 10 July, Osóbka-Morawski announced the expulsion of all Germans from Poland.\n\nFrom 17 July to 2 August, a delegation from the TRJN attended the 1945 Potsdam Conference.\n\nOn 16 August, a Soviet-Polish border agreement was signed in Moscow. Before the end of August, Poland agreed to cede the eastern provinces to the Soviet Union and officially recognized the eastern border based on a slightly modified Curzon line.\n\nOn 16 October, delegates of the TRJN signed the United Nations Charter and Poland became a member of the United Nations.\n\nThe 'free and fair' elections promised by the TRJN were postponed until the Communists were sure they could control the election process. In the meantime, they increased repressions of opposition members, who were bribed, threatened, delegalised, or even murdered. In the words of Gomułka, the goal of the Communists was to be the \"\"hegemon\" of the nation\" and nothing would stop them. On 30 June 1946, they tested their control during the 3xTAK referendum, falsifying the results and claiming 68% support.\n\nTwo great reforms carried out by TRJN were the nationalization decree and the Three-Year Plan (of 1947–49), both issued in 1946. The nationalization decree gave the government control over every enterprise which employed more than 50 people; by the end of the year, 90% of the country's industry was controlled by the government.\n\nThe Communists rigged the Polish legislative elections of January 1947. The new parliament (\"Sejm Ustawodawczy\") replaced the KRN; it named a new government headed by Józef Cyrankiewicz. On 19 January 1947, TRJN was dissolved and passed its prerogatives as the government of Poland to the new government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "501802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501802", "title": "Provisional Legislative Council", "text": "Provisional Legislative Council\n\nThe Provisional Legislative Council or the PLC (Chinese: 臨時立法會, frequently abbreviated to 臨立會) was the interim legislature of Hong Kong from 1997 to 1998. The legislature was founded in Guangzhou and sat in Shenzhen from 1996 (with offices in Hong Kong) until the handover in 1997 and moved to Hong Kong to serve as the temporary replacement of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. It was established by the Preparatory Committee for HKSAR by resolution at its Second Plenary Session on 24 March 1996. The 60 members in PLC were elected on 21 December 1996 by the 400-member Selection Committee for the First Government of the HKSAR, which also elected the first Chief Executive. The official start date for this council was on 25 January 1997.\n\nThe Provisional Legco was set up in 1996 by the People's Republic of China (PRC) to serve as a provisional legislature of Hong Kong, after the proposal package of electoral changes for the 1995 Legislative Council elections that was deemed unconstitutional by the PRC was passed in the Legislative Council. It was believed that the formation of the council according to the proposal by the government of Chris Patten, then governor, favoured pro-democracy candidates.\n\nFor the first five months, the PLC met in one of the conference halls at the Shenzhen Guesthouse Hotel. From 1 July 1997 to 1998 it sat at Legislative Council Building in Hong Kong.\n\nCouncil committees and the Legco Secretariat sat at various locations:\n\nThe Council held 60 meetings, 17 motions and passed 13 bills introduced by the Chief Executive of Hong Kong.The Legco Secretariat offices were on the 3-floor of the Huaxia Art Centre.\n\nThe president of the PLC was Rita Fan, who later led the legislative council following the handover.\n\nThe only officer found in the records was for the Clerk, Pauline Ng Man-Wah. Immediately after the Provisional Legislative Council was disbanded, she became the clerk of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. She retired from this position on 28 August 2012.\n\n\nSessions of the PLC were broadcast with assistance from the Shenzhen Television Station.\n\nThe PLC received heavy attack for its lack of legitimacy and representation. The replacement of a (partially) democratically elected legislature with a wholly appointed body was regarded by some as \"a setback to the democratization in Hong Kong\". Critics also described the PLC as a rubber stamp of the Chief Executive. \n\n"}
{"id": "29524395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29524395", "title": "Public comment", "text": "Public comment\n\nPublic comment (or \"vox populi\") is a public meeting of government bodies which set aside time for public comments, usually upon documents. Such documents may either be reports such as Draft Environmental Impact Reports (DEIR's) or new regulations. There is typically a notice which is posted on the web and mailed to lists of interested parties known to the government agencies. If there is to be a change of regulations, there will be a formal notice of proposed rulemaking.\n\nThe basis for public comment is found in general political theory of constitutional democracy as originated during and after the French Enlightenment, particularly by Rousseau. This basis was elaborated in the American Revolution, and various thinkers such as Franklin, Jefferson and Thomas Paine are associated with the rejection of tyrannical, closed government decision making in favor of open government. The tradition of the New England Town Hall is believed to be rooted in this early American movement, and the distillation of formal public comment in official proceedings is a direct application of this format in the workings of public administration itself.\n\nPublic comment embedded in actual meetings is typical of meetings convened by legislative or executive bodies; judicial units do not have public comment, but rather testimony from witnesses and procedural statements from attorneys. Public units such as city councils or county legislative bodies are typical examples of legislative public comment hearing bodies. Note that comment may be written, oral, or electronic.\n\nThere are two types of comment period. One is when comment goes to a specific agenda item. Secondly there is a class of public comment which pertains to items which are not on the agenda for that day. However, it is necessary that comments be restricted to matters within the jurisdiction of the government body.\n\nThis latter requirement is seldom enforced except in those unusual cases in which commentators have set themselves at odds with policy makers and have been designated as a nuisance. In such cases, there are usually more explicit reasons given for restricting the rights of such speakers, however most undesirable comments tend to be outside the scope of legislative jurisdiction. The above distinction between agenda-item public comment and what is called \"General Public Comment\" pertains both to legislative type bodies as well as executive agencies. These are typically commissions, committees or boards. There are typically public comment periods during meetings of agencies such as city councils, county boards, and agencies which are concerned with matters such as water quality, fish and game, sewer runoff management and transportation. Time limits frequently range from one to five minutes for unscheduled presentations. It is not typical to require that the person commenting be a resident, a registered voter, a qualified elector, or even a citizen, simply that they be present and able to speak.\n\nA whole different class of public comment is requested by agencies which are seeking input on draft policy documents such as Environmental Impact Reports which provide information which may be used in policy determinations by their own agency and other agencies at various levels of government.Typically there is a notice of completion of the draft which is posted in the newspaper, on the web, and is mailed to known interested parties who may be designated as \"stakeholders\" or simply \"interested parties\". A public comment period is established and comments which are received by the cutoff date become part of the official public record. In some cases, there is a statutory mandate that those comments be replied to or incorporated in some fashion into the Final document.\n\nComments provided at public meetings may be oral or written and not infrequently utilize audio visual aids such as thumbdrives, CD's or overhead projectors (transparencies or opaque material). They may include video clips. A laser pointer, such as used by professional presenters, is useful but seldom utilized except by scheduled presenters on preset agendas, who are often credentialed professionals hired by the government agency to produce reports or provide consultation.\n\nPublic comment in some cases includes remarks from experts or public officials with some role in the issue at stake, but at a different time or level of process. Typically these kinds of comments may be ad hoc, not solicited by the governing agency which is conducting the hearing. There may be informal expectation that such a party may comment, but if it is an interested agency then there will be prior notification and a larger chunk of time may be allowed to such presenters. Surprisingly, however, these knowledgeable high level speakers, including office holders, often are limited to the same time constriction and queing requirements as all other public commentors. They simply wait in line, their name is called when their speaker slip happens to come to the top of the pile, and they are subject to being cut off after their two minutes or three minutes are up.This equalization between expert and lay commentator is an example of social leveling which occurs in democratic process and which is often harshly criticized by elitist theorists such as Machiavellians, fascists, communist technocrats and other conservative social thinkers.\n\nPersons preparing public comment often think about and express the value of the constitutional protection and a certain level of gratitude for the opportunity to speak. Such expressions are considered good etiquette the first few times a speaker presents to a board, and it is also common to state one's background, credentials, or interest. Persons who speak frequently to a particular agency become better known and typically refrain from repeating such formalities to excess, and may go directly into their substantive testimony.\n\nIn constitutional democracies which permit public comment, meeting facilitators can be relaxed, friendly and informal, allowing for errors on the part of public speakers such as exceeding allowable time. In some cases they are strict in enforcement of rules and may make somewhat hostile remarks to speakers. This attitude may be a result of prior episodes in which public commenters may have expressed accusations or hostility to seated officials. Frequently, such remarks result in warnings and may escalate to the point that the meeting chair may not recognize the public speaker and refuse to allow access to the microphone. Less frequently, speakers who are out of order are ordered to leave, escorted out of the building, or, rarely, placed under arrest for trespass or other charges. However, most government agencies in the United States are reluctant to resort to such measures, which may be viewed as restricting free speech protection of the US and various state constitutions. They may also result in litigation and in some cases do. For instance, Robert Norse filed suit against the City of Santa Cruz when he made a Nazi style straight arm salute to the Santa Cruz City Council as a protest for council not permitting one additional public speaker who had not put in a speaker's slip and would have exceeded the amount of time allowed for public comment. The suit, typical of a possible consequence of not permitting public comment, is based upon Title 42 Section 1983 of the US Code, and alleges that city council violated his First Amendment right to free speech by having him arrested for refusing to leave as ordered in response to his gesture.\n\nSome states and regions may differ widely in their policies and procedures with regard to public comment, ranging from the extremes of anarchist collectives in twentieth century Spain, in which many routine decisions were made by workers councils, to dictatorships in which making a comment on the performance of government officials can be proscribed by law as tantamount to slander or provoking insurrection. In such systems, even the very idea of exposure to risk of prosecution deters the flow of information needed for the system's self rationalization process, resulting in stifled innovation, accumulated inefficiencies, declline of group morale and trust levels, with eventual system collapse.\n\nLiberalized systems also typically proscribe slander, fabrications and personal attacks, however defined, and public commenters are discouraged from engaging in back and forth discussion with board or committee members. Comments which are directed from the floor towards persons who have the floor are generally classified as heckling.\n\nAuthoritarian systems generally tend to take a dim view of public comment. In the writings of Benito Mussolini, he expressed the view that fascism offers \"free\" speech, but only to persons who were \"qualified\" to have an opinion. Similarly, in the historical development of Nazism, public commentators at official NSDAP rallies were not infrequently beaten by the mob, or, if there were large numbers supporting the adverse commentator, brawls broke out. today's People's Republic of China, public comment on government policy is considered inappropriate, and may result in long prison terms for persons such as Wei Jingsheng.\n\nAs indicated above, there is a separate and distinct form of public comment, in the US, does not occur at meetings but is solicited in written or electronic form prior to a set deadline. This type of comment may pertain to an intended action, such as permit issuance, or the classification of a particular species of plant or animal as endangered. Other instances occur with regard to publication of draft environmental impact reports, which comments are then answered and may be reflected in subsequent revisions to the document. These public comments are often posted on the web in advance of the deadline, which provides commentators with an opportunity to view the remarks of others before committing themselves in writing.\n\nThis type of comment process may be mandated in legislation or in regulations enforcing statutes such as the National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) or California's Cxxxx Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Triggering events may include development proposals, mandated master plan updates or discovery of an endangered species. The NIH requested and received massive public comment pertaining to its own openness to its generally sophisticated public, and they did a thorough job of analyzing the voluminous submissions which is posted on their website.\n\nA government portal which may be useful allows review of comments and opportunity for making comment and can be searched by keyword.\nThe keyword search crosses different government agencies and has drop-downs permitting a boolean exclusion algorithm narrowing the focus between alternative choices such as documents, rules, notice of proposed rule changes, etcetera.\n\n"}
{"id": "1821224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1821224", "title": "Royal Hong Kong Regiment", "text": "Royal Hong Kong Regiment\n\nThe Royal Hong Kong Regiment (The Volunteers) (RHKR(V)) (), formed in May 1854, was a local auxiliary militia force funded and administered by the colonial Government of Hong Kong.\n\nDuring the imperial age, home defence units were raised in various British colonies with the intention of allowing regular army units tied up on garrison duty to be deployed elsewhere. These units were generally organised along British Army lines. The first locally raised militia in Hong Kong was the Hong Kong Volunteers, a fore runner of what was to become the Royal Hong Kong Regiment (The Volunteers).\n\nAlthough the British government, as national government, was responsible for the defence of the territories and colonies, and held direct control of military units raised within them, the local forces were raised and funded by the local governments or the territories and as such the RHKR(V) was always a branch of the Hong Kong government. It was not a part of the reserve force of the British Army. The RHKR(V) did however form part of the ORBAT of 38 Gurkha Infantry Brigade and were under command of the commander of the British forces in Hong Kong.\n\nThese locally raised defence units met British military standards in organisation and efficiency. Many of the officers and NCOs attended training in the UK. Although colonial/overseas British territories' auxiliary units could have no tasking under the British Ministry of Defence, and members could not be compelled to serve outside their territory, many served voluntarily on attachment to British Regular and Territorial Army units.\n\nThe regiment should not be confused with the separate Hong Kong Regiment formed in 1892, which was a regular infantry regiment of the British Army, recruited in India.\n\nThe Hong Kong Volunteers was formed in 1854 when the Crimean War led to a reduction of the British military presence in Hong Kong. To help bolster the defences at a time when marauding pirates were still a hazard on the China coast a call for local volunteers was made. A total of 99 Europeans were recruited, mostly British but with some Portuguese, Scandinavians and Germans also answering the call. However almost as soon as it was founded, it was disbanded when the threat of war in Europe receded, and Regular units of the British Army were once again able to resume responsibility for the security of Hong Kong.\n\nIn 1862, the Hong Kong Volunteers was re-established, and in 1864 they were called out to help subdue a serious outbreak of rioting between British and Indian soldiers. In 1866 it was disbanded again. In 1878, the Hong Kong Volunteers was reborn as the \"Hong Kong Artillery and Rifle Volunteer Corps\". By 1917, it was renamed as the \"Hong Kong Defence Corps\" was actively engaged in guard and patrol duties during World War I when, owing to the recall of the British forces, they were the only military unit left in Hong Kong.\n\nIn 1933, the Hong Kong Defence Corps acquired their first armoured car, equipped with an armour-plated body and mountings for two machine-guns. Later, four others were bought by the colonial government. The bodywork was outfitted by the Hong Kong and Whampoa Dock Company. These armoured cars played an important role in the Battle of Hong Kong in December 1941.\n\nThe Hong Kong Defence Corps, renamed the \"Hong Kong Volunteer Defence Corps\" (HKVDC), met their severest test in the bitter fighting that took place in the crucial weeks before the fall of Hong Kong on Christmas Day 1941. On 8 December 1941, the HKVDC, deployed a total fighting strength of 2200 all ranks in 7 infantry companies, 5 artillery batteries, 5 machine gun companies equipped with Vickers machine gun and an armoured car platoon.\n\nWhile only seeing light action in the New Territories at the beginning of the Japanese attack, the Volunteers were heavily engaged on Hong Kong Island, especially during the key battles of Wong Nai Chung Gap and Stanley. Casualties among 3 Coy at the former, and 1 Bty at the latter, were extremely heavy. 1 and 2 (Scottish) companies also suffered heavy losses, as did 5 Bty.\n\nOut of the mobilised strength of 2200, 289 were listed either as missing or killed, and many others became prisoners of war. Some, however, made their way into China where the British Army Aid Group was formed to assist the Chinese Government in the struggle against the Japanese. A number of these men later joined the Hong Kong Volunteer Company in Burma, where they were attached to the Chindits under General Orde Wingate. The services of the defence corps were later recognised by the award of 19 decorations and 18 mentioned in despatch for gallantry and good service. As a recognition of The Hong Kong Volunteer Defence Corps defence of Hong Kong during 1941, the Corps was awarded the battle honour \"Hong Kong\".\n\nIn 1949, The Hong Kong Regiment were reorganised and became part of the Hong Kong Defence Force, which also included separate air and naval units. In 1951 the new combined defence force was granted the title 'Royal', and replacement colours were entrusted to the care of the regiment as successor to the defunct Defence Corps.\n\nIn the early 1960s, the role of the Royal Hong Kong Defence Force changed from that of an infantry battalion to a reconnaissance regiment equipped with six British Ferret armoured cars (each armed with Browning .30-inch machine-gun) were acquired. The regiment was reorganise to form a headquarters, headquarters squadron, three reconnaissance squadrons, an infantry company and a home guard company. During the 1967 leftist riots, the Royal Hong Kong Defence Force were called out during the six-month disturbances in Hong Kong.\n\nBy 1970 the naval unit was phased out and in 1970 the Royal Hong Kong Defence Force was itself disbanded – the two remaining member units, the Hong Kong Regiment and the Hong Kong Auxiliary Air Force, officially becoming separate entities. At the same time, both were granted the 'Royal' title by Queen Elizabeth II, and the words 'The Volunteers' were incorporated into the Hong Kong Regiment's title. With its new title and colours, the RHKR(V) was reorganised as a light reconnaissance unit operating under the command of the British Forces Overseas Hong Kong.\n\nIn the late 1970s the Volunteers were deployed to assist the civil powers over the problem of illegal immigration from China but as the problem grew from 1980 till 1992 the Volunteers were deployed to man the defences of the Chinese-Hong Kong border. In the late 1980s to early 1990s the Volunteers were deployed to support the colonial government in controlling the flood of Vietnamese illegal migrants, commonly known as the \"Boat People\". This included guarding temporary detention camps for Vietnamese migrants.\n\nThe regiment included several units :\n\n\nThe Sino-British Joint Declaration on the question of Hong Kong as a British colony was finalised and the joint declaration was signed in Beijing on 19 December 1984. On 27 May 1985, instruments of ratification were exchanged and the agreement entered into force. It was registered at the United Nations by the British and Chinese Governments on 12 June 1985.\n\nIn April 1992 the Security Branch of the Hong Kong Government formally announced that the Regiment would disband in September 1995.\n\n\nList of vehicles used by regiment from 1920s to 1960s:\n\n\n\nThe regiment's badge at disbandment consisted of:\n\n\nEarlier badges had a Tudor crown and the Volunteer Corps had no Oriental features:\n\n\nThe J Corps was a youth organisation created by the RHKR(V) in 1971 and now renamed Hong Kong Adventure Corps.\n\nThe RHKR(V)RP was an internal police force within the RHKR(V) to provide security and law and order within the regiment.\n\nCreated in 1995 as a charitable organization to support former members in Hong Kong with Club House located at the Hong Kong Jockey Club Happy Valley racecourse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985749", "title": "Russian Party of Pensioners for Social Justice", "text": "Russian Party of Pensioners for Social Justice\n\nThe Russian Party of Pensioners for Social Justice (Российская партия пенсионеров за социальную справедливость, \"Rossiyskaya Partiya Pensionerov za sotsialnuyu spravedlivost\") is a political party in Russia.\n\nThe party was founded as the Party of Pensioners (Общественно-Политичеcкая организация) in 1997. On November 29, 1997 Sergei Atroshenko was elected as the first chairman. \nOn May 29, 1998 the party was registered with the Ministry of Justice. \nIn the December 1999 State Duma elections the party won 1.95% of the vote.\n\nOn December 1, 2001 the party was given its present name. On May 15, 2002 RPP was registered with the Ministry of Justice.\n\nAt the legislative elections, 7 December 2003, the alliance of the Russian Pensioners' Party and the Russian Social Justice Party won 3.1% of the popular vote and no seats.\n\nOn January 31, 2004, in an extraordinary congress of the party, chairman Sergei Atroshenko was dismissed from his post for their poor performance.\n\nOn March 27, 2005 Valery Gartung was elected chairman.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2005 RPP has been able to hold candidates in the elections of the parliaments of 12 regions. Their highest result was 20.7% in elections for Magadan Oblast's Regional Duma on May 22, 2005.\n\nOn October 9, 2005 RPP won elections in Tomsk, receiving 19.8% of the vote, compared to United Russia's 17.85%.\n\nOn December 17, 2005 an extraordinary congress was held to elect new members. Igor L. Zotov was elected Chairman.\n\nThe Russian Pensioners' Party merged with the Russian Party of Life and Rodina into a new party, Fair Russia, on 28 October 2006.\n\nAfter the merger on the 2nd of September, 2007 supporters of the Russian Party of Pensioners created its own Russian public organization \"Russian pensioner for Justice\" which brought together 88,000 seniors in some 60 regional organizations (Igor L. Zotov became the Chairman of the organization). The organization conducted independent social and political activity aimed at protection of interests of pensioners and low income citizens, came forward with public legislative initiative of the Pension Code adoption in the Russian Federation.\n\nOn the 29th of February, 2012 the General Council of the organization led by the Russian Federation State Duma Deputy Igor L. Zotov decided to convert the public organization \"Russian pensioners for Justice\" into political party \"Russian Pensioners For Justice Party\" during the next Congress on the 7th of April, 2012 in Moscow.\n\nThe current Head of the Central council of the Party is Vladimir Burakov.\n\nIn 2018 the party announced that they will support current president Vladimir Putin in the Russian presidential election, 2018.\n\n\nThe Party of Pensioners finds its main goal in implementing the rights of the older generation and improving the quality of its life.\n\nThe party stands for:\n\n\nThe Party is against:\n\n\nThe Party calls for:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10008586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10008586", "title": "Sensory integration therapy", "text": "Sensory integration therapy\n\nSensory integration therapy is based on A. Jean Ayres' Sensory Integration Theory. \n\nWhile sensory based treatments have been highly advocated for, there is disagreement over their therapeutic worth.\n\nAyres' sensory integration is a theory that describes (1) how the neurological process of processing and integrating sensory information from the body and the environment contribute to emotional regulation, learning, behavior, and participation in daily life, (2) empirically derived disorders of sensory integration and (3) an intervention approach. \"Sensory integration theory is used to explain why individuals behave in particular ways, plan intervention to ameliorate particular difficulties, and predict how behavior will change as a result of intervention.\" Sensory integration theory originated from the work of A. Jean Ayres, an occupational therapist and psychologist. Ayres wrote, \"Sensory Integration is the organization of sensations for use. Our senses give us information about the physical conditions of our body and the environment around us...The brain must organize all of our sensations if a person is to move and learn and behave in a productive manner\".\n\nThe neurological process of sensory integration is a \"particular way of viewing the neural organization of sensory information for functional behavior\". It is studied by different professions on diverse levels, such as by occupational therapists as a foundation for occupational performance and participation, by psychologists on a cellular level as multi-sensory integration.\n\nAs a theory, sensory integration is \"a dynamic and ecological theory that specifies the critical influence of sensory processing on human development and function\". \"It contributes to the understanding of how sensation affects learning, social-emotional development, and neurophysiological processes, such as motor performance, attention, and arousal\".\n\nAs an intervention approach, it is used as \"a clinical frame of reference for the assessment and treatment of people who have functional disorders in sensory processing\". \n\nPeople with sensory integrative dysfunction experience problems with their sense of touch, smell, hearing, taste, sight, body coordination, and movement against gravity. Along with this might possibly be difficulties in movement, coordination and sensing where one's body is in a given space. According to proponents of sensory integration therapy, sensory integrative dysfunction is a common disorder for individuals with neurological learning disabilities such as an autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and sensory modulation dysfunction.\n\nAyres' approach has proliferated among therapy and educational professionals over the past several decades. It has been met with some resistance within the occupational therapy profession and in other disciplines.\n\n"}
{"id": "50381084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50381084", "title": "Ted Cruz–Zodiac Killer meme", "text": "Ted Cruz–Zodiac Killer meme\n\nThe Ted Cruz–Zodiac Killer meme is a mock-conspiracy theory popularized on the internet during Ted Cruz's candidacy for President in 2015–16. The internet meme facetiously suggests that United States Senator and former 2016 presidential candidate Ted Cruz was the Zodiac Killer, an unidentified Californian serial killer of the late 1960s and early 1970s. Cruz, born in 1970, could not have committed these murders, which began before his birth. Circulators of the meme do not genuinely believe that he was the Zodiac Killer, citing the absurdity of its premise; NPR wrote that the meme captured \"a feeling they have about Cruz: they think he's creepy. And they want to point that out, as clearly as they can.\"\n\nA January 2016 investigation by Miles Klee of \"The Daily Dot\" found the first use of the meme to be by a Twitter user in March 2013, as Cruz was speaking at the Conservative Political Action Conference and vowing to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The meme was not repeated until November 2014, by another Twitter user writing about Cruz's proposal against net neutrality.\n\nIt continued in obscurity up to February 2016, when another Twitter user used Photoshop to edit a picture of a Republican debate in order to include \"Is Ted Cruz the Zodiac Killer?\" in the interactive ticker at the bottom. That month, \"is ted cruz the zodiac killer\" was the second highest suggestion in Google's autocomplete for \"is ted\", but by April it was not in the autocomplete at all. News.com.au writer Matthew Dunn suggested that Google was censoring the search term, showing evidence that it accounted for 89% of total searches when compared to other terms in the autocomplete.\n\nIn April 2016, the \"Houston Chronicle\" said the meme \"... has a following. A Facebook group named for the meme has more than 27,000 members. A Google search turns up 621,000 hits, including exploratory articles by some of the biggest news publications on the web\".\n\nCruz himself has jocularly alluded to the meme by tweeting one of the Zodiac Killer's cryptograms; first in October 2017 responding to a retweet from Senator Ben Sasse referring to Cruz as \"the son of the guy who killed Kennedy\" (a reference to a conspiracy theory involving Rafael Cruz) and then wishing a \"Happy Halloween\" in 2018.\n\nAfter the edited image showing the question on Google trended, the meme spread into popular culture. Books about Cruz being the Zodiac Killer, including romantic ones, were listed on Amazon.com.\n\nIn February 2016, Public Policy Polling asked registered voters in Florida ahead of the Republican primary if they believed Cruz to be the Zodiac Killer; 10% believed and 28% were not sure. The other 62% did not think he was.\n\nComedian Larry Wilmore made references to the meme in his April 2016 routine at the White House Correspondents' Dinner, including a joke that Cruz was not campaigning to win the nomination, but to continue a murder spree.\n\nThe meme has been repeated, without disclaimer, in anti-Cruz opinion pieces in \"GQ\" and the \"Chicago Tribune\". \n\nLindsey Martin, a Twitter user who helped circulate the meme, told NPR that she did so because it is \"so obviously untrue... if there was any way that it could possibly be true I would be scared to joke about it just because of the repercussions\". \"The Verge\" writer Kaitlyn Tiffany opined that some may consider the subject of the meme to be \"distasteful and irresponsible, even dangerous\". Leigh Alexander considered its spread an example of the growing political engagement of youth, writing that in such memes, \"the political figure is exaggerated, his context made grotesque or fantastical, just as in traditional political cartooning.\" According to Lozano, the point of the meme is to \"[demonize] his character\". Heidi Cruz responded to the meme by stating that she has \"been married to him for 15 years, and I know pretty well who he is, so it doesn't bother me at all. There's a lot of garbage out there\". Ted Cruz acknowledged the meme on his official Twitter account on October 18 by tweeting an image of one of the Zodiac Killer's encrypted messages, and again on October 31 of the following year.\n\n"}
{"id": "43154268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43154268", "title": "The Signing of Peace in the Hall of Mirrors", "text": "The Signing of Peace in the Hall of Mirrors\n\nThe Signing of Peace in the Hall of Mirrors, Versailles, 28 June 1919 is an oil-on-canvas painting by Irish artist William Orpen, completed in 1919. It was one the paintings commissioned from Orpen to commemorate of the Peace Conference at Versailles in 1919. The work is held by the Imperial War Museum in London.\n\nOrpen was one of the first people chosen as a war artist by the British Ministry of Information in 1917. Orpen was also official painter at the peace conference, and was commissioned to paint three canvases to record the proceedings. The work was the most expensive of the British public art commissions associated with the First World War: Orpen was paid £3,000: by comparison, John Singer Sargent received £300 for his much larger painting \"Gassed\".\n\nThe painting depicts the signature of the Treaty of Versailles by representatives from Germany on 28 June 1919, to formally end the First World War. It is a group portrait depicting soldiers, diplomats and politicians who attended the conference, at the point when the treaty was signed in the opulent surroundings of Louis XIV's Hall of Mirrors at the Palace of Versailles. High up can be seen the words \"Le Roy Gouverne par lui meme\" (French: \"The King governs alone\"). It measures .\n\nOrpen grew to dislike the politicians at the conference, considering them vain and greedy. In his painting, they are dwarfed by the scale of the palace. \nThe people depicted are:\n\nIn the front row:\n\nSeated in the middle row, from left to right:\n\nStanding in the back row, from left to right\nOrpen is depicted twice, as an indistinct figure visible in the distorting mirrors behind the main subjects.\n\nOrpen's other paintings of the conference depict preliminary discussions of the \"Council of Ten\" in the Hall of Clocks at the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the Quai d'Orsay, and another showing a coffin lying in state in a marble hall covered by a Union Flag.\n"}
{"id": "800465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=800465", "title": "Tim LaHaye", "text": "Tim LaHaye\n\nTim Francis LaHaye (April 27, 1926 – July 25, 2016) was an American evangelical Protestant minister, speaker, author and conservative activist. He wrote more than 85 books, both fiction and non-fiction, and is best known for the \"Left Behind\" series of apocalyptic fiction, which he co-authored with Jerry B. Jenkins.\n\nTimothy Francis LaHaye was born on April 27, 1926, in Detroit, Michigan to Frank LaHaye, a Ford auto worker who died in 1936 of a heart attack, and Margaret LaHaye (née Palmer). His father's death had a significant influence on LaHaye, who was only nine years old at the time. He had been inconsolable until the minister at the funeral said, \"This is not the end of Frank LaHaye; because he accepted Jesus Christ, the day will come when the Lord will shout from heaven and descend, and the dead in Christ will rise first and then we'll be caught up together to meet him in the air.\"\n\nLaHaye later said that, upon hearing those remarks, \"all of a sudden, there was hope in my heart I'd see my father again.\"\n\nLaHaye enlisted in the United States Army Air Forces in 1944, at the age of 18, after he finished night school. He served in the European Theater of Operations as a machine gunner aboard a bomber. In 1950, LaHaye received a Bachelor of Arts from Bob Jones University in Greenville, South Carolina. LaHaye held the Doctor of Ministry degree from Western Seminary and a Doctor of Literature from Liberty University. He served as a pastor in Pumpkintown, South Carolina, and after that he pastored a congregation in Minneapolis until 1956. After that, the LaHaye family moved to San Diego, California, where he served as pastor of the Scott Memorial Baptist Church (now called Shadow Mountain Community Church) for nearly 25 years. In 1971, he founded Christian Heritage College, now known as San Diego Christian College.\n\nIn 1972, LaHaye helped establish the Institute for Creation Research at Christian Heritage College in El Cajon, California, along with Henry M. Morris.\n\nLaHaye started numerous groups to promote his views, having become involved in politics at the Christian Voice during the late 1970s and early 1980s. In 1979, he encouraged Jerry Falwell to found the Moral Majority and sat on its board of directors. LaHaye's wife, Beverly, founded Concerned Women for America, a conservative Christian women's activist group.\n\nThen in 1981, he left the pulpit to concentrate his time on politics and writing. That year, he helped found the Council for National Policy (CNP) a policy making think tank in which membership is only available through invitation; it has been reported \"the most powerful conservative organization in America you've never heard of,\" and should not be confused with the liberal \"Center\" for National Policy.\n\nIn the 1980s, LaHaye founded the American Coalition for Traditional Values and the Coalition for Religious Freedom. He founded the Pre-Tribulation Research Center along with Thomas Ice in 1998. The center is dedicated to producing material that supports a dispensationalist, pre-tribulation interpretation of the Bible. He and his wife had connections to the John Birch Society, a conservative, anti-communist group.\n\nLaHaye also took more direct roles in presidential politics. He supported Ronald Reagan's elections as United States president. He was a co-chairman of Jack Kemp's 1988 presidential bid but was removed from the campaign after four days when anti-Catholic views which he had expressed became known. LaHaye played a significant role in getting the Religious Right to support George W. Bush for the presidency in 2000. In 2007, he endorsed Mike Huckabee during the primaries and served as his spiritual advisor.\n\nLaHaye is best known for the \"Left Behind\" series of apocalyptic fiction that depicts the Earth after the pretribulation rapture which Premillennial Dispensationalists believe the Bible states, multiple times, will occur. The books were LaHaye's idea, though Jerry B. Jenkins, a former sportswriter with numerous other works of fiction to his name, wrote the books from LaHaye's notes. Jenkins has said, \"I write the best I can. I know I'm never going to be revered as some classic writer. I don't claim to be C. S. Lewis. The literary-type writers, I admire them. I wish I was smart enough to write a book that's hard to read, you know?\"\n\nThe series, which started in 1995 with the first novel, includes 12 titles in the adult series, as well as juvenile novels, audio books, devotionals, and graphic novels. The books have been very popular, with total sales surpassing 65 million copies as of July 2016. Seven titles in the adult series have reached No. 1 on the bestseller lists for \"The New York Times, USA Today\", and \"Publishers Weekly\". Jerry Falwell said about the first book in the series: \"In terms of its impact on Christianity, it's probably greater than that of any other book in modern times, outside the Bible.\" The best-selling series has been compared to the equally popular works of Tom Clancy and Stephen King: \"the plotting is brisk and the characterizations Manichean. People disappear and things blow up.\"\n\nLaHaye indicates that the idea for the series came to him one day circa 1994, while he was sitting on an airplane and observed a married pilot flirting with a flight attendant. He wondered what would befall the pilot if the Rapture happened at that moment. The first book in the series opens with a similar scene. He sold the movie rights for the \"Left Behind\" series and later stated he regretted that decision, because the films turned out to be \"church-basement videos\", rather than \"a big-budget blockbuster\" that he had hoped for.\n\nIn 2001, LaHaye co-hosted with Dave Breese the prophecy television program \"The King Is Coming\". In 2001, LaHaye gave $4.5 million to Liberty University to build a new student center and School of Prophecy, which opened in January 2002 and was named after LaHaye. He also served as its president.\n\nHe provided funds for the LaHaye Ice Center on the campus of Liberty University, which opened in January 2006.\n\nLaHaye's book \"The Rapture\" was released on June 6, 2006, in order to capitalize on a 6-6-6 connection.\n\nTim LaHaye married activist and fellow author Beverly Ratcliffe in 1947 while attending Bob Jones University.\n\nIn July 2016, the LaHayes celebrated their 69th wedding anniversary. They had four children and nine grandchildren, and lived in the Los Angeles area. The LaHayes owned a home in Rancho Mirage, California.\n\nLaHaye died on July 25, 2016, in a hospital in San Diego, California, after suffering from a stroke, aged 90. In addition to his wife, Beverly, he was survived by four children, nine grandchildren, 16 great grandchildren, a brother (Richard LaHaye), and a sister. His funeral service took place at Shadow Mountain Community Church on August 12, 2016, with David Jeremiah, who succeeded LaHaye as pastor at what was then Scott Memorial Baptist Church, led the service. LaHaye is interred at Miramar National Cemetery in San Diego, California.\n\nIn 1978 LaHaye published \"The Unhappy Gays\", which was later retitled \"What Everyone Should Know About Homosexuality\". The book called homosexuals \"militant, organized\" and \"vile.\" \"The Unhappy Gays\" also argues that gays share 16 pernicious traits, including \"incredible promiscuity\", \"deceit\", \"selfishness\", \"vulnerability to sadism-masochism\", and \"poor health and an early death.\" He believed that homosexuality can be cured. However, he said that such conversions are rare.\n\nLaHaye believed that the Illuminati is secretly engineering world affairs. In \"Rapture Under Attack\" he wrote:I myself have been a forty-five year student of the satanically-inspired, centuries-old conspiracy to use government, education, and media to destroy every vestige of Christianity within our society and establish a new world order. Having read at least fifty books on the Illuminati, I am convinced that it exists and can be blamed for many of man's inhumane actions against his fellow man during the past two hundred years.\n\nThe Illuminati is just one of many groups that he believed are working to \"turn America into an amoral, humanist country, ripe for merger into a one-world socialist state.\" Other secret societies and liberal groups working to destroy \"every vestige of Christianity\", according to LaHaye, include: the Trilateral Commission, the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the National Organization for Women, Planned Parenthood, \"the major TV networks, high-profile newspapers and newsmagazines,\" the State Department, major foundations (Rockefeller, Carnegie, Ford), the United Nations, \"the left wing of the Democratic Party\", Harvard, Yale \"and 2,000 other colleges and universities.\"\n\nLaHaye has been criticized for his apocalyptic beliefs, in which he asserts the end of the world is near. Other believers in dispensational premillennialism, who believe that the return of Jesus is imminent, criticize various aspects of his theology, saying he has \"some real problems with his prophetical teachings in the \"Left Behind\" series.\" It is noted that \"in books 8 & 9, LaHaye and Jenkins teach that [non-willing] recipients of the mark of the beast can still be saved\". However, in \"The Mark\", \"the Chang scenario\" is developed, whereby a character receives both the mark of the beast and the sealing of the Lord. In \"Desecration\", his dual-marking was justified in the storyline.\" This has led some readers to wonder \"how a Christian can have the mark of the beast and still be saved\" and has been asked many times by perplexed readers on the Left Behind messageboard. Attempts to address this question have appeared on the FAQ page at LeftBehind.com.\n\nMany mainstream Christians and certain other evangelicals had broader disagreements with the series as a whole, pointing out that \"most biblical scholars largely reject the eschatological assumptions of this kind of pop end-times literature.\" Others say that LaHaye portrays the Book of Revelation with a selective literalism, choosing to take some things literally (such as the violence) and others as metaphor (the Beast) as it suits his point of view. In \"The Rapture Exposed\" by Barbara Rossing, a number of criticisms are raised regarding the series, particularly its focus on violence.\n\nRobert M. Price, a professor of biblical criticism for the Council for Secular Humanism's Center for Inquiry Institute and a proponent of the Christ myth theory, wrote a critique of Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins's 'Left Behind' novels called \"The paperback apocalypse, How the Christian church was left behind\" (\"The paperback apocalypse examines the theological framework of popular eschatology, comparing it with the texts to which it erroneously appeals.\").\n\nLaHaye was a harsh critic of Roman Catholicism, which he called \"a false religion\". In his 1973 book \"Revelation Illustrated and Made Plain\", he stated that the Catholic Church \"is more dangerous than no religion because she substitutes religion for truth\" and \"is also dangerous because some of her doctrines are pseudo-Christian.\" Elsewhere the same book compared Catholic ceremonies to pagan rituals. It was these statements that were largely responsible for LaHaye's dismissal from Jack Kemp's presidential campaign. It was later revealed that the San Diego church that LaHaye had pastored throughout the 1970s had sponsored an anti-Catholic group called Mission to Catholics; one of their pamphlets asserted that Pope Paul VI was the \"archpriest of Satan, a deceiver, and an antichrist, who has, like Judas, gone to his own place.\"\n\nThe issue of anti-Catholicism also comes up in regard to the \"Left Behind\" series. While the fictional Pope John XXIV was raptured, he is described as having \"stirred up controversy in the church with a new doctrine that seemed to coincide more with the 'heresy' of Martin Luther than with the historic orthodoxy they were used to,\" and this is implied as the reason he was raptured. His successor, Pope Peter II becomes Pontifex Maximus of Enigma Babylon One World Faith, an amalgamation of all remaining world faiths and religions.\n\nIn Book 9 of the series, \"The Desecration\", Carpathia, the villain, specifically refutes all happenings at Jesus' crucifixion that are part of the Catholic stations of the Cross but not in the canonical gospels, further undercutting the Catholic traditions. Other Catholic writers have said that while the books aren't \"anti-Catholic per se\" they reflect LaHaye's other writings on the subject.\n\nDespite his anti-Catholic views, he praised traditionalist Catholic director Mel Gibson's 2004 film \"The Passion of the Christ\", saying that \"Everyone should see this movie. It could be Hollywood's finest achievement to date.\" He also endorsed Catholic convert Newt Gingrich for president in 2012.\n\nIn the 1980s he was criticized by the evangelical community for accepting money from Bo Hi Pak, a longtime Sun Myung Moon operative. He was additionally criticized for joining Moon's Council for Religious Freedom, which was founded to protest Moon's 1984 imprisonment. In 1996, LaHaye's wife spoke at an event sponsored by Moon.\n\n\"Time Magazine\" named LaHaye one of the 25 most influential evangelicals in America, and in the summer of 2001, the \"Evangelical Studies Bulletin\" named him the most influential Christian leader of the preceding quarter century.\n\nLaHaye authored over 85 books in his lifetime.\n\n\nLeft Behind series:\n\nBefore They Were Left Behind series (prequel):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51269", "title": "Unit 101", "text": "Unit 101\n\nCommando Unit 101 () was a special forces unit of the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF), founded and commanded by Ariel Sharon on orders from Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion in August 1953. They were armed with non-standard weapons and tasked with carrying out retribution operations across the state's borders—in particular, establishing small unit maneuvers, activation and insertion tactics.\n\nMembers of the unit were recruited only from agricultural kibbutzim and moshavim. Membership in the unit was by invitation only, and any new member had to be voted on by all existing members before they were accepted.\n\nThe unit was merged into the 890th Paratroop Battalion during January 1954, on orders of General Moshe Dayan, Chief of Staff, because he wanted their experience and spirit to be spread among all infantry units of IDF starting with the paratroopers. They are considered to have had a significant influence on the development of subsequent Israeli infantry-oriented units.\n\nFollowing the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Israel was faced with cross-border raids and infiltrations by Arab militants and non-militants respectively. Many of these were small scale infiltrations that consisted of unarmed Palestinian refugees attempting to rejoin their families and of smugglers bringing in contraband for Israeli markets.<ref name=\"UNS/636\">'No one would deny that the Israel authorities would be justified, and are justified, in using strong measures to check (infiltration), in so far as damage to property or loss of life results. But not everyone who crosses the armistice demarcation line does so with criminal intent. Acts of violence are indeed committed, but as the volume of illegal crossings of the demarcation line is so considerable, if one is to judge from the available statistics, it seems probable that \"many crossings are carried out by persons – sometimes, I understand, even by children – with no criminal object in view\". 'England's ambassador to the UN = para.52 S/635/Rev.1 9 November 1953</ref> These were later followed with attacks launched by refugees often motivated by economic reasons, but they were quickly adopted by the military of the neighboring Arab states, who organized them into semi-formal brigades which mounted larger scale operations from 1954 onwards. According to Israel, about 9,000 attacks were launched from 1949 to 1956, resulting in hundreds of Israeli civilian casualties.\n\nAt the same time the IDF was ill-prepared to respond to these raids. The Palmach, its three best combat units of the 1948 war, had been disbanded at Ben-Gurion's instruction. Many experienced officers had left the army after the war, and Israeli society had undergone a difficult period of impoverishment. As a result, the IDF did not have any units capable of effective reprisal, and did not perform well in offensive operations.\n\nAs a response to this problem the IDF formed Unit 30 in 1951—a secret unit that belonged to the IDF Southern Command. Their purpose was to execute retribution missions while operating in compact and well-trained teams. Unfortunately for the IDF the officers lacked the required training and executed their duties poorly, leading to the unit's disbandment 1952.\nOne of Sharon's final operations before leaving the army in 1952 was the semi-successful Operation Bin Nun Alef into Jordan. During the operation he suffered serious injuries, after which Sharon had recommended to the General Staff that an elite force, trained in commando tactics, be set up for reprisal operations. After a series of unsuccessful retribution infiltrations by existing IDF units, Ben Gurion pressed Chief of Staff Mordechai Maklef to establish such a special forces unit in the summer of 1953. This was Israel's first, and reservist Ariel Sharon was recalled to duty.\n\nSharon was given the rank of Major and chosen to command the company-sized unit, with Shlomo Baum as deputy in command. The unit was to consist of 50 men, most of them former Tzanhanim and Unit 30 personnel. They were armed with non-standard weapons and tasked with carrying out special reprisals across the state's borders—mainly establishing small unit maneuvers, activation and insertion tactics that are utilized even today.\n\nThe new unit began a hard process of day and night training. Some of their exercises frequently took them across the border, as enemy engagement was seen as the best preparation. The recruits went on forced marches and undertook weapons and sabotage training at their base camp at Sataf, a depopulated Arab village just west of Jerusalem.\n\nIn addition to the unit's tactical variation, they were also unique in two ways:\n\nOriginally T'zanhanim (, \"Paratroopers\") company's officers were the biggest opposition against the creation of Unit 101. The reason for this was simply that they didn't want another competitor for retaliation missions. Before the formation of Unit 101 only they undertook these missions. One of the unit's tactical commanders was Meir Har-Zion, who was later awarded the rank of an officer solely for his conduct in battle. The tactics of Unit 101 was politically very effective and soon the fighters simply could not keep up with the attrition.\n\nThis meant that the attacks on Israel decreased and the political objective of Unit 101 was accomplished. The creation of Unit 101 was a major landmark in the Israeli Special Forces history. Beside the Sayeret Matkal, they are considered to be the unit with the most influence on the Israeli infantry oriented units including both special and conventional units.\n\nMembers of the unit were recruited exclusively from agricultural kibbutzim and moshavim, with the view that only those who were raised as farmers on the land had the spirit to defend it. Membership in the unit was by invitation only, and any new member had to be voted on by all existing members before they were accepted.\n\nAccording to Yoav Gelber, after one month of training a patrol of Unit 101 infiltrated into the Gaza Strip as an exercise. Some sources estimate that a result of the infiltration was 20 killed Arabs. Unit 101 suffered two wounded soldiers. The raid was heavily condemned by foreign observers, who called it \"an appalling case of deliberate mass murder\", and was publicly criticized in the Israeli cabinet by at least one minister.\n\nTwo months later, in October, the unit was involved in the raid into the village of Qibya in the northern West Bank, then a part of Jordan. During this operation that inflicted heavy damage on the Arab Legion forces in Qibya 42 villagers were killed, and 15 wounded. According to United Nations observers, bullet-riddled bodies near the doorways and multiple bullet hits on the doors of the demolished houses indicated that the inhabitants may have remained inside until their homes were blown up over them.\n\nThe international outcry caused by the operation required a formal reply by Israel. The Israelis denied responsibility, claiming that Israeli settlers or a local kibbutz had carried out the raid on their own initiative.\n\nAfter realizing the huge success of Unit 101, the Chief of Staff, General Moshe Dayan decided that the experience gained by it must be shared with all IDF infantry units starting with the Paratroopers Battalion 890. This was done by merging the two together under the command of Ariel Sharon who was then promoted to the rank of Lt. Colonel. After the merger and the addition of a NACHAL MUTZNACH battalion, the combined outfit turned into a brigade size unit, named Brigade 202. Sharon became the commander of the merged brigade which was now composed of two battalions—890 and 88 and a few months later joined by reserve battalion 771 which included ex-101 members together with reserve paratroopers and NACHAL paratroopers.\nThe merge with T'zanhanim company was actually ironic since their officers were originally the biggest opposition against the creation of Unit 101. This was because they didn't want a competitor for retaliation missions. Before the formation of Unit 101 only they undertook these missions.\n\nOperating within the brigade, they carried out a large-scale attack on the Egyptian army positions in the Gaza strip during February 1955. Sharon personally led the raid, codenamed Operation Black Arrow. It resulted in 42 Egyptian soldiers killed and 36 wounded, versus 8 Israeli dead. The newly formed brigade did most of the Israeli special forces operations during the remainder of the 1950s.\n\nEgyptian shock over the magnitude of their losses is often cited as one of the catalysts for the Soviet-Egyptian arms deal that opened the Middle East to the Soviet Union. Up to 20 such attacks were carried out between 1955 and 1956, culminating in the Qalqilya Police raid of October 1956. This particular raid targeted a position of the Jordanian Arab Legion in one of the old British police forts, during which 18 Israeli soldiers and up to a hundred Legionnaires were killed.\n\nDuring the end of the 1950s the IDF realized that they were lacking a small SF unit, since the T'zanhanim company had turned into an infantry brigade. That is the main reason why Avraham Arnan formed the Sayeret Matkal in 1958. In various ways the Sayeret Matkal combined the operational experience gathered by Unit 101 and utilised the structure of the British Special Air Service. After losing their special forces title, the T'zanhanim company formed its own SF unit—the Sayeret T'zanhanim in October 1958.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2187756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2187756", "title": "Venizelism", "text": "Venizelism\n\nVenizelism () was one of the major political movements in Greece from the 1900s until the mid-1970s.\n\nNamed after Eleftherios Venizelos, the key characteristics of Venizelism were:\n\n\nVenizelos' liberal party ruled Greece from 1910 until 1916. That year, determined to enter World War I on the entente side, Venizelos rebelled against the king and formed a provisional government in the north. He regained full control of the country and ruled until losing the 1920 elections.\n\nAfter a crisis period (including two short-lived pro-Venizelist military governments after Nikolaos Plastiras 1923 coup) the liberals returned to power from 1928 until 1932. Venizelists Sophoklis Venizelos and George Papandreou formed the core of the Greek government in exile during the Axis Occupation of Greece (1941–1944), and held power a number of times in the 1950s.\n\nGeorgios Papandreou created the Centre Union party in 1961, as a coalition of Venizelists and progressive conservatives. In 1963 the party was elected and held power until 1965, when its right wing broke ranks in the events known as the \"Apostasia\". The current Union of Centrists claims to be the ideological continuation of the old party Centre Union.\n\nAfter the 1967–1974 Junta, Venizelists formed the Centre Union – New Forces party, which then evolved into the Union of the Democratic Centre (). While the Venizelist legacy was still popular, election results were disappointing as the abolition of the monarchy, the dilution of support for Greek nationalism after the seven years of the junta and the 1974 Turkish invasion of Cyprus, and Karamanlis' move towards the political centre had blurred the differences between the liberals and their former conservative opponents, while the socialist PASOK party was gaining support at the left side of the spectrum.\n\nAlthough the image of Venizelos is still very popular in Greece today, Venizelism is no longer a major force in Greek politics. Venizelos' prestige however and his ideology's connotations of republicanism, and progressive reforms means that most mainstream political forces claim his political heritage. There are few explicitly \"Venizelist\" movements today in Greece. In the 2004 elections for the European Parliament, the leading Venizelist party was the Union of Centrists, gaining only 0.54% of the Greek popular vote. An attempted revival of the original Liberal Party, under the same name, was founded in the 1980s by Venizelos' grandson, Nikitas Venizelos.\n\nAgainst Venizelos' policy were united politicians of different political orientation during the 1910s. Some of their common points was the criticism against Venizelos' extreme philo-Entente policy during World War I, their disagreement concerning his policy about the Megali idea and its results (regarding the relations with Turkey and the Greeks who were still under Ottoman sovereignty) and later the population exchange. Another common point of the Antivenizelists was a hesitation about the country's social and economical modernization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5709425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5709425", "title": "Weapons Intelligence, Nonproliferation, and Arms Control Center", "text": "Weapons Intelligence, Nonproliferation, and Arms Control Center\n\nThe Weapons Intelligence Non Proliferation and Arms Control Center (WINPAC) is a United States Intelligence Community office that provides assessments to \"all types of foreign weapons threats.\" Among its tasks, WINPAC analyzes intelligence related to dual-use technology and export controls. \n\nWINPAC was created in 2001 in an effort to bring together experts on foreign weapons into one center. WINPAC was preceded by the Nonproliferation Center (NPC), a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) office established in 1992 to improve support for non-proliferation policy. NPC was one of seven 'Centers' established in the 1990s to centralize expertise as a way to better analyse 'transnational threats. \n\nIn the first term of the George W. Bush administration, the head of WINPAC was Alan Foley. According to the authors of the book \"The Italian Letter\", Foley addressed his WINPAC subordinates in December 2002 to tell them, \"If the president wants to go to war, our job is to find the intelligence to allow him to do so.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5045983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5045983", "title": "Zhdanov Doctrine", "text": "Zhdanov Doctrine\n\nThe Zhdanov Doctrine (also called Zhdanovism or Zhdanovshchina; ) was a Soviet cultural doctrine developed by Central Committee secretary Andrei Zhdanov in 1946. It proposed that the world was divided into two camps: the \"imperialistic\", headed by the United States; and \"democratic\", headed by the Soviet Union. The main principle of the Zhdanov doctrine was often summarized by the phrase \"The only conflict that is possible in Soviet culture is the conflict between good and best\". Zhdanovism soon became a Soviet cultural policy, meaning that Soviet artists, writers and intelligentsia in general had to conform to the party line in their creative works. Under this policy, artists who failed to comply with the government's wishes risked persecution. The policy remained in effect until the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953.\n\nThe 1946 resolution of the Central Committee was directed against two literary magazines, \"Zvezda\" and \"Leningrad\", which had published supposedly apolitical, \"bourgeois\", individualistic works of the satirist Mikhail Zoshchenko and the poet Anna Akhmatova.\n\nEarlier some critics and literary historians were denounced for suggesting that Russian classics had been influenced by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Molière, Lord Byron or Charles Dickens. Part of Zhdanovism was a campaign against \"cosmopolitanism\" (often with antisemitic undertones, see Rootless cosmopolitan), which meant that foreign models were not to be unthinkingly emulated, and native Russian accomplishments were emphasized.\n\nA further decree on music was issued on 20 February 1948, \"On Muradeli's Opera The Great Friendship\" and marked the beginning of the so-called \"anti-formalism campaign\". (The term \"formalism\" referred to art for art's sake which did not serve a larger social purpose.) Nominally aimed at Vano Muradeli's opera \"The Great Friendship\", it signaled a sustained campaign of criticism and persecution against many of the Soviet Union's foremost composers, notably Dmitri Shostakovich, Sergei Prokofiev, Aram Khachaturian and Dmitri Klebanov for allegedly writing \"hermetic\" music and misusing dissonance. The decree was followed in April by a special congress of the Composers' Union, where many of those attacked were forced publicly to repent. The campaign was satirized in the \"Anti-Formalist Rayok\" by Shostakovich. The composers condemned were formally rehabilitated by a further decree issued on 28 May 1958.\n\n\n"}
