{"id": "16706077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16706077", "title": "1967 Arab League summit", "text": "1967 Arab League summit\n\nThe 1967 Arab League summit was held on August 29 in Khartoum as the fourth Arab League Summit. The summit came in the aftermath of the Arab defeat to Israel in the Six-Day War and is famous for its Khartoum Resolution known as \"The Three No's\"; No peace with Israel, no recognition of Israel, no negotiations with Israel. The summit also resolved that the \"oil-rich Arab states\" give financial aid to the states who lost the war and to \"help them rebuild their military forces.\" The final communique of the meeting \"underscored the Palestinians' right to regain the whole of Palestine—that is, to destroy the State of Israel.\" The outcome of this summit influenced Israeli foreign policy for decades.\n"}
{"id": "28905954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28905954", "title": "Acqui Award of History", "text": "Acqui Award of History\n\nThe Acqui Award of History (Premio Acqui Storia) is an Italian prize. The prize was founded in 1968 for remembering the victims of the Acqui Military Division who died in Cefalonia (September 13–26, 1943) fighting against the Nazis. The jury is composed of seven members: six full professors of history and a group of sixty (60) ordinary readers who have just one representative (and just one vote) in the jury. The Acqui Award Prize is divided into three sections: history, popular history, and historical novels. A special prize entitled “Witness to the Times,” given to individual personalities known for their cultural contributions and who have distinguished themselves in describing historical events and contemporary society, may also be conferred. Beginning in 2003 special recognition for work in multimedia and iconography--”History through Images”—was instituted.\n\nSource: Premio Acqui Storia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNorberto Bobbio, Giovanni Spadolini, Altiero Spinelli, Giulio Andreotti, Alessandro Galante Garrone, Giancarlo Pajetta, Susanna Agnelli, Carlo Bo, Vittorio Foa, Primo Levi, Cesare Musatti, Tullio Regge, Bartolomeo Sorge, Umberto Veronesi, Alberto Cavallari, Luigi Firpo, Arrigo Levi, Piero Ottone, Franco Della Peruta, Furio Diaz, Giuseppe Galasso, Jean Strarobinski, Luigi Vittorio Ferraris, Roberto Gaja, Egidio Ortona, Sergio Romano, Natalia Ginzburg, Rita Levi-Montalcini, Margherita Hack, Lalla Romano, Adriana Zarri, Enzo Biagi, Oreste Del Buono, Giorgio Fattori, Luigi Ciotti, Inge Feltrinelli, Antonio Tabucchi, Lietta Tornabuoni, Ernesto Olivero, Madre Teresa di Calcutta, Indro Montanelli, Alberto Sordi, Cesare Romiti, Cino Chiodo, Giovanni Galliano, Piero Galliano, Ercole Tasca, Marcello Venturi, Giorgio Forattini, Barbara Spinelli, Michail Gorbačëv, Mike Bongiorno, Francesco Cossiga, Marcello Lippi, Gianluigi Buffon, Nazionale Italiana di Calcio Campione del Mondo 2006 (2006), Claudia Cardinale (2007), Alberto Bolaffi (2007), Mauro Mazza (2007, Franco Battiato (2008), Vittorio Feltri (2008), Rino Fisichella (2008), Uto Ughi (2008), Gianni Letta (2009), Alain Elkann (2009), Antonio Paolucci (2009), Sandro Bondi (2010), Vittorio Messori (2010), Massimo Ranieri (2010), Marcello Veneziani (2011), Brunello Cucinelli (2011), Ida Magli (2011), Ezio Greggio (2011), Bruno Vespa (2012), Carlo Verdone (2012), Maria Gabriella di Savoia (2012), Paola Pitagora (2012), Pupi Avati (2013), Giampaolo Pansa (2013), Roberto Napoletano (2013), Pier Francesco Pingitore (2013), Livio Berruti (2014), Lorella Cuccarini (2014), Mario Orfeo (2014), Enrico Vanzina (2014), Dario Ballantini (2015), Pietrangelo Buttafuoco (2015), Italo Cucci (2015), Maria Rita Parsi (2015), Antonio Patuelli (2015) .\n"}
{"id": "19806455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19806455", "title": "American Journalism Historians Association", "text": "American Journalism Historians Association\n\nFounded in 1981, the American Journalism Historians Association (AJHA) seeks to advance education and research in mass communication history. Through its annual meeting, regional conferences, committees, awards, speakers and publications, members work to raise historical standards and ensure that all scholars and students recognize the vast importance of media history and apply this knowledge to the advancement of society.\n\nThe organization sponsors an annual fall meeting. Approximately 120 historians attend and participate in discussions surrounding teaching and research in media history. Throughout the meeting, scholars present peer-reviewed research, participate in topical panel discussions and generate ideas for articles and books. At the annual meeting, scholars also participate vigorously in a silent auction that generates thousands of dollars for graduate student aid.\n\nMedia history scholars from across the Southeast gather each February for the annual AJHA Southeast Symposium. The conference is designed to promote graduate and undergraduate research and provides a scholarly forum for student research presentations and discussions.\n\nThe AJHA partners with the History Division of AEJMC to sponsor a spring conference in New York City. This interdisciplinary gathering accepts submissions in all areas of journalism and communication history from all time periods and welcomes scholars from all academic disciplines and stages of their academic careers.\n\nThis AJHA committee works to encourage the study of history in graduate and undergraduate mass communication programs. Some of its actions include:\n\nThe AJHA Speakers Bureau features members who share their expertise and knowledge with the media and local and national organizations. The diversity of the organization's membership enables its bureau to provide a wealth of educational resources on a wide variety of topics related to mass communication history.\n\n\"American Journalism\" (), the AJHA’s quarterly peer-reviewed journal, publishes articles, research notes, book reviews, and correspondence dealing with media history. Recent editions of \"American Journalism\" are available via the EBSCO database. Contributions may focus on social, economic, intellectual, political or legal issues. \"American Journalism\" also welcomes articles that treat the history of communication in general; the history of broadcasting, advertising, and public relations; the history of media outside the United States; and theoretical issues in the literature or methods of media history.\n\n\"The Intelligencer\" is the quarterly newsletter of the AJHA. It includes news about the organization and its members as well as research and conference updates.\n\n\nDuring the annual meeting, the AJHA recognizes exceptional peer-reviewed research papers in several categories: faculty paper, student paper, conference paper, minority paper, and women’s interest paper. A panel of judges also presents an award to the single best article published during the year in American Journalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33963943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33963943", "title": "Antique aircraft", "text": "Antique aircraft\n\nAntique, classic, heritage, historic, veteran or vintage aircraft are aircraft of an obsolete type which have been preserved beyond their normal life. Their owners are typically aviation museums, armed forces or private enthusiasts. Sometimes they may be maintained in an airworthy condition so that they can be flown at air displays or on public occasions. \n\nFor example, the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight maintained by the United Kingdom's Royal Air Force (RAF) consists of RAF aircraft from World War II, and regularly takes part in official celebrations, such as its flypast at the wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton in 2011 — over 65 years after the aircraft were constructed.\n\nOrganizations devoted to such aircraft include the Antique Airplane Association, the Historic Aircraft Association and the Vintage Aircraft Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178", "title": "Atlantis", "text": "Atlantis\n\nAtlantis (, \"island of Atlas\") is a fictional island mentioned within an allegory on the hubris of nations in Plato's works \"Timaeus\" and \"Critias\", where it represents the antagonist naval power that besieges \"Ancient Athens\", the pseudo-historic embodiment of Plato's ideal state in \"The Republic\". In the story, Athens repels the Atlantean attack unlike any other nation of the known world, supposedly giving testament to the superiority of Plato's concept of a state. The story concludes with Atlantis falling out of favor with the deities and submerging into the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nDespite its minor importance in Plato's work, the Atlantis story has had a considerable impact on literature. The allegorical aspect of Atlantis was taken up in utopian works of several Renaissance writers, such as Francis Bacon's \"New Atlantis\" and Thomas More's \"Utopia\". On the other hand, nineteenth-century amateur scholars misinterpreted Plato's narrative as historical tradition, most notably in Ignatius L. Donnelly's \"\". Plato's vague indications of the time of the events—more than 9,000 years before his time—and the alleged location of Atlantis—\"beyond the Pillars of Hercules\"—has led to much pseudoscientific speculation. As a consequence, Atlantis has become a byword for any and all supposed advanced prehistoric lost civilizations and continues to inspire contemporary fiction, from comic books to films.\n\nWhile present-day philologists and classicists agree on the story's fictional character, there is still debate on what served as its inspiration. As for instance with the story of Gyges, Plato is known to have freely borrowed some of his allegories and metaphors from older traditions. This led a number of scholars to investigate possible inspiration of Atlantis from Egyptian records of the Thera eruption, the Sea Peoples invasion, or the Trojan War. Others have rejected this chain of tradition as implausible and insist that Plato created an entirely fictional nation as his example, drawing loose inspiration from contemporary events such as the failed Athenian invasion of Sicily in 415–413 BC or the destruction of Helike in 373 BC.\n\nThe only primary sources for Atlantis are Plato's dialogues \"Timaeus\" and \"Critias\"; all other mentions of the island are based on them. The dialogues claim to quote Solon, who visited Egypt between 590 and 580 BC; they state that he translated Egyptian records of Atlantis. Written in 360 BC, Plato introduced Atlantis in \"Timaeus\":\n\nThe four people appearing in those two dialogues are the politicians Critias and Hermocrates as well as the philosophers Socrates and Timaeus of Locri, although only Critias speaks of Atlantis. In his works Plato makes extensive use of the Socratic method in order to discuss contrary positions within the context of a supposition.\n\nThe \"Timaeus\" begins with an introduction, followed by an account of the creations and structure of the universe and ancient civilizations. In the introduction, Socrates muses about the perfect society, described in Plato's \"Republic\" (c. 380 BC), and wonders if he and his guests might recollect a story which exemplifies such a society. Critias mentions a tale he considered to be historical, that would make the perfect example, and he then follows by describing Atlantis as is recorded in the \"Critias\". In his account, ancient Athens seems to represent the \"perfect society\" and Atlantis its opponent, representing the very antithesis of the \"perfect\" traits described in the \"Republic\".\n\nAccording to Critias, the Hellenic deities of old divided the land so that each deity might have their own lot; Poseidon was appropriately, and to his liking, bequeathed the island of Atlantis. The island was larger than Ancient Libya and Asia Minor combined, but it was later sunk by an earthquake and became an impassable mud shoal, inhibiting travel to any part of the ocean. Plato asserted that the Egyptians described Atlantis as an island consisting mostly of mountains in the northern portions and along the shore and encompassing a great plain in an oblong shape in the south \"extending in one direction three thousand \"stadia\" [about 555 km; 345 mi], but across the center inland it was two thousand stadia [about 370 km; 230 mi].\" Fifty stadia [9 km; 6 mi] from the coast was a mountain that was low on all sides ... broke it off all round about ... the central island itself was five stades in diameter [about 0.92 km; 0.57 mi].\n\nIn Plato's metaphorical tale, Poseidon fell in love with Cleito, the daughter of Evenor and Leucippe, who bore him five pairs of male twins. The eldest of these, Atlas, was made rightful king of the entire island and the ocean (called the Atlantic Ocean in his honor), and was given the mountain of his birth and the surrounding area as his fiefdom. Atlas's twin Gadeirus, or Eumelus in Greek, was given the extremity of the island toward the pillars of Hercules. The other four pairs of twins—Ampheres and Evaemon, Mneseus and Autochthon, Elasippus and Mestor, and Azaes and Diaprepes—were also given \"rule over many men, and a large territory.\"\n\nPoseidon carved the mountain where his love dwelt into a palace and enclosed it with three circular moats of increasing width, varying from one to three stadia and separated by rings of land proportional in size. The Atlanteans then built bridges northward from the mountain, making a route to the rest of the island. They dug a great canal to the sea, and alongside the bridges carved tunnels into the rings of rock so that ships could pass into the city around the mountain; they carved docks from the rock walls of the moats. Every passage to the city was guarded by gates and towers, and a wall surrounded each ring of the city. The walls were constructed of red, white, and black rock, quarried from the moats, and were covered with brass, tin, and the precious metal orichalcum, respectively.\n\nAccording to Critias, 9,000 years before his lifetime a war took place between those outside the Pillars of Hercules at the Strait of Gibraltar and those who dwelt within them. The Atlanteans had conquered the parts of Libya within the Pillars of Hercules, as far as Egypt, and the European continent as far as Tyrrhenia, and had subjected its people to slavery. The Athenians led an alliance of resistors against the Atlantean empire, and as the alliance disintegrated, prevailed alone against the empire, liberating the occupied lands.\n\nThe logographer Hellanicus of Lesbos wrote an earlier work entitled \"Atlantis\", of which only a few fragments survive. Hellanicus' work appears to have been a genealogical one concerning the daughters of Atlas (Ἀτλαντὶς in Greek means \"of Atlas\"), but some authors have suggested a possible connection with Plato's island. John V. Luce notes that when Plato writes about the genealogy of Atlantis's kings, he writes in the same style as Hellanicus, suggesting a similarity between a fragment of Hellanicus's work and an account in the \"Critias\". Rodney Castleden suggests that Plato may have borrowed his title from Hellanicus, who may have based his work on an earlier work about Atlantis.\n\nCastleden has pointed out that Plato wrote of Atlantis in 359 BC, when he returned to Athens from Sicily. He notes a number of parallels between the physical organisation and fortifications of Syracuse and Plato's description of Atlantis. Gunnar Rudberg was the first who elaborated upon the idea that Plato's attempt to realize his political ideas in the city of Syracuse could have heavily inspired the Atlantis account.\n\nSome ancient writers viewed Atlantis as fictional or metaphorical myth; others believed it to be real. Aristotle believed that Plato, his teacher, had invented the island to teach philosophy. The philosopher Crantor, a student of Plato's student Xenocrates, is cited often as an example of a writer who thought the story to be historical fact. His work, a commentary on \"Timaeus\", is lost, but Proclus, a Neoplatonist of the fifth century AD, reports on it. The passage in question has been represented in the modern literature either as claiming that Crantor visited Egypt, had conversations with priests, and saw hieroglyphs confirming the story, or, as claiming that he learned about them from other visitors to Egypt. Proclus wrote:\n\nThe next sentence is often translated \"Crantor adds, that this is testified by the prophets of the Egyptians, who assert that these particulars [which are narrated by Plato] are written on pillars which are still preserved.\" But in the original, the sentence starts not with the name Crantor but with the ambiguous \"He\"; whether this referred to Crantor or to Plato is the subject of considerable debate. Proponents of both Atlantis as a metaphorical myth and Atlantis as history have argued that the pronoun refers to Crantor.\n\nAlan Cameron argues that the pronoun should be interpreted as referring to Plato, and that, when Proclus writes that \"we must bear in mind concerning this whole feat of the Athenians, that it is neither a mere myth nor unadorned history, although some take it as history and others as myth\", he is treating \"Crantor's view as mere personal opinion, nothing more; in fact he first quotes and then dismisses it as representing one of the two unacceptable extremes\".\n\nCameron also points out that whether \"he\" refers to Plato or to Crantor, the statement does not support conclusions such as Otto Muck's \"Crantor came to Sais and saw there in the temple of Neith the column, completely covered with hieroglyphs, on which the history of Atlantis was recorded. Scholars translated it for him, and he testified that their account fully agreed with Plato's account of Atlantis\" or J. V. Luce's suggestion that Crantor sent \"a special enquiry to Egypt\" and that he may simply be referring to Plato's own claims.\n\nAnother passage from the commentary by Proclus on the \"Timaeus\" gives a description of the geography of Atlantis: That an island of such nature and size once existed is evident from what is said by certain authors who investigated the things around the outer sea. For according to them, there were seven islands in that sea in their time, sacred to Persephone, and also three others of enormous size, one of which was sacred to Hades, another to Ammon, and another one between them to Poseidon, the extent of which was a thousand stadia [200 km]; and the inhabitants of it—they add—preserved the remembrance from their ancestors of the immeasurably large island of Atlantis which had really existed there and which for many ages had reigned over all islands in the Atlantic sea and which itself had like-wise been sacred to Poseidon. Now these things Marcellus has written in his \"Aethiopica\".\n\nMarcellus remains unidentified.\n\nOther ancient historians and philosophers who believed in the existence of Atlantis were Strabo and Posidonius. Some have theorized that, before the sixth century BC, the \"Pillars of Hercules\" may have applied to mountains on either side of the Gulf of Laconia, and also may have been part of the pillar cult of the Aegean. The mountains stood at either side of the southernmost gulf in Greece, the largest in the Peloponnese, and it opens onto the Mediterranean Sea. This would have placed Atlantis in the Mediterranean, lending credence to many details in Plato's discussion.\n\nThe fourth-century historian Ammianus Marcellinus, relying on a lost work by Timagenes, a historian writing in the first century BC, writes that the Druids of Gaul said that part of the inhabitants of Gaul had migrated there from distant islands. Some have understood Ammianus's testimony as a claim that at the time of Atlantis's sinking into the sea, its inhabitants fled to western Europe; but Ammianus, in fact, says that \"the Drasidae (Druids) recall that a part of the population is indigenous but others also migrated in from islands and lands beyond the Rhine\" (\"Res Gestae\" 15.9), an indication that the immigrants came to Gaul from the north (Britain, the Netherlands, or Germany), not from a theorized location in the Atlantic Ocean to the south-west. Instead, the Celts who dwelled along the ocean were reported to venerate twin gods, (Dioscori), who appeared to them coming from that ocean.\n\nDuring the early first century, the Hellenistic Jewish philosopher Philo wrote about the destruction of Atlantis in his \"On the Eternity of the World\", xxvi. 141, in a longer passage allegedly citing Aristotle's successor Theophrastus:\n\nThere is the possibility that Clement of Rome cryptically referred to Atlantis in his First Epistle of Clement, 20: 8:\n\nThe theologian Joseph Barber Lightfoot (\"Apostolic Fathers\", 1885, II, p. 84) noted on this passage: \"Clement may possibly be referring to some known, but hardly accessible land, lying without the pillars of Hercules. But more probably he contemplated some unknown land in the far west beyond the ocean, like the fabled Atlantis of Plato ...\"\n\nOther early Christian writers wrote about Atlantis, although they had mixed views on whether it once existed or was an untrustworthy myth of pagan origin. Tertullian believed Atlantis was once real and wrote that in the Atlantic Ocean once existed \"[the isle] that was equal in size to Libya or Asia\" referring to Plato's geographical description of Atlantis. The early Christian apologist writer Arnobius also believed Atlantis once existed, but blamed its destruction on pagans.\n\nCosmas Indicopleustes in the sixth century wrote of Atlantis in his \"Christian Topography\" in an attempt to prove his theory that the world was flat and surrounded by water:\n\nA Hebrew language treatise on computational astronomy dated to AD 1378/79, alludes to the Atlantis myth in a discussion concerning the determination of zero points for the calculation of longitude:\n\nAside from Plato's original account, modern interpretations regarding Atlantis are an amalgamation of diverse, speculative movements that began in the sixteenth century, when scholars began to identify Atlantis with the New World. Francisco Lopez de Gomara was the first to state that Plato was referring to America, as did Francis Bacon and Alexander von Humboldt; Janus Joannes Bircherod said in 1663 \"orbe novo non novo\" (\"the New World is not new\"). Athanasius Kircher accepted Plato's account as literally true, describing Atlantis as a small continent in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nContemporary perceptions of Atlantis share roots with Mayanism, which can be traced to the beginning of the Modern Age, when European imaginations were fueled by their initial encounters with the indigenous peoples of the Americas. From this era sprang apocalyptic and utopian visions that would inspire many subsequent generations of theorists.\n\nMost of these interpretations are considered pseudohistory, pseudoscience, or pseudoarchaeology, as they have presented their works as academic or scientific, but lack the standards or criteria.\n\nThe Flemish cartographer and geographer Abraham Ortelius is believed to have been the first person to imagine that the continents were joined together before drifting to their present positions. In the 1596 edition of his \"Thesaurus Geographicus\" he wrote: \"Unless it be a fable, the island of Gadir or Gades will be the remaining part of the island of Atlantis or America, which was not sunk (as Plato reports in the \"Timaeus\") so much as torn away from Europe and Africa by earthquakes and flood... The traces of the ruptures are shown by the projections of Europe and Africa and the indentations of America in the parts of the coasts of these three said lands that face each other to anyone who, using a map of the world, carefully considered them. So that anyone may say with Strabo in Book 2, that what Plato says of the island of Atlantis on the authority of Solon is not a figment.\"\n\nThe term \"utopia\" (from \"no place\") was coined by Sir Thomas More in his sixteenth-century work of fiction \"Utopia\". Inspired by Plato's Atlantis and travelers' accounts of the Americas, More described an imaginary land set in the New World. His idealistic vision established a connection between the Americas and utopian societies, a theme that Bacon discussed in \"The New Atlantis\" (c. 1623). A character in the narrative gives a history of Atlantis that is similar to Plato's and places Atlantis in America. People had begun believing that the Mayan and Aztec ruins could possibly be the remnants of Atlantis.\n\nMuch speculation began as to the origins of the Maya, which led to a variety of narratives and publications that tried to rationalize the discoveries within the context of the Bible and that had undertones of racism in their connections between the Old and New World. The Europeans believed the indigenous people to be inferior and incapable of building that which was now in ruins and by sharing a common history, they insinuate that another race must have been responsible.\n\nIn the middle and late nineteenth century, several renowned Mesoamerican scholars, starting with Charles Etienne Brasseur de Bourbourg, and including Edward Herbert Thompson and Augustus Le Plongeon, formally proposed that Atlantis was somehow related to Mayan and Aztec culture.\n\nThe French scholar Brasseur de Bourbourg traveled extensively through Mesoamerica in the mid-1800s, and was renowned for his translations of Mayan texts, most notably the sacred book Popol Vuh, as well as a comprehensive history of the region. Soon after these publications, however, Brasseur de Bourbourg lost his academic credibility, due to his claim that the Maya peoples had descended from the Toltecs, people he believed were the surviving population of the racially superior civilization of Atlantis. His work combined with the skillful, romantic illustrations of Jean Frederic Waldeck, which visually alluded to Egypt and other aspects of the Old World, created an authoritative fantasy that excited much interest in the connections between worlds.\n\nInspired by Brasseur de Bourbourg's diffusion theories, the pseudoarchaeologist Augustus Le Plongeon traveled to Mesoamerica and performed some of the first excavations of many famous Mayan ruins. Le Plongeon invented narratives, such as the kingdom of Mu saga, which romantically drew connections to him, his wife Alice, and Egyptian deities Osiris and Isis, as well as to Heinrich Schliemann, who had just discovered the ancient city of Troy from Homer's epic poetry (that had been described as merely mythical). He also believed that he had found connections between the Greek and Mayan languages, which produced a narrative of the destruction of Atlantis.\n\nThe 1882 publication of \"\" by Ignatius L. Donnelly stimulated much popular interest in Atlantis. He was greatly inspired by early works in Mayanism, and like them, attempted to establish that all known ancient civilizations were descended from Atlantis, which he saw as a technologically sophisticated, more advanced culture. Donnelly drew parallels between creation stories in the Old and New Worlds, attributing the connections to Atlantis, where he believed the Biblical Garden of Eden existed. As implied by the title of his book, he also believed that Atlantis was destroyed by the Great Flood mentioned in the Bible.\n\nDonnelly is credited as the \"father of the nineteenth century Atlantis revival\" and is the reason the myth endures today. He unintentionally promoted an alternative method of inquiry to history and science, and the idea that myths contain hidden information that opens them to \"ingenious\" interpretation by people who believe they have new or special insight.\n\nThe Russian mystic Helena Petrovna Blavatsky and her partner Henry Steel Olcott founded their Theosophical Society in the 1870s with a philosophy that combined western romanticism and eastern religious concepts. Blavatsky and her followers in this group are often cited as the founders of New Age and other spiritual movements.\n\nBlavatsky took up Donnelly's interpretations when she wrote \"The Secret Doctrine\" (1888), which she claimed was originally dictated in Atlantis. She maintained that the Atlanteans were cultural heroes (contrary to Plato, who describes them mainly as a military threat). She believed in a form of racial evolution (as opposed to primate evolution), in which the Atlanteans were the fourth \"Root Race\", succeeded by the fifth and most superior \"Aryan race\" (the modern human race). The Theosophists believed that the civilization of Atlantis reached its peak between 1,000,000 and 900,000 years ago, but destroyed itself through internal warfare brought about by the dangerous use of psychic and supernatural powers of the inhabitants. Rudolf Steiner, the founder of anthroposophy and Waldorf Schools, along with other well known Theosophists, such as Annie Besant, also wrote of cultural evolution in much the same vein.\n\nSome subsequent occultists have followed Blavatsky, at least to the point of tracing the lineage of occult practices back to Atlantis. Among the most famous is Dion Fortune in her \"Esoteric Orders and Their Work\".\n\nBlavatsky was also inspired by the work of the eighteenth-century astronomer Jean-Sylvain Bailly, who had \"Orientalized\" the Atlantis myth in his mythical continent of Hyperborea, a reference to Greek myths featuring a Northern European region of the same name, home to a giant, godlike race. Dan Edelstein claims that her reshaping of this theory in \"The Secret Doctrine\" provided the Nazis with a mythological precedent and a pretext for their ideological platform and their subsequent genocide. However, Blavatsky's writings mention that the Atlantean were in fact olive-skinned peoples with Mongoloid traits who were the ancestors of modern Native Americans, Mongolians and Malayans.\n\nJulius Evola's writing in 1934 also suggested that the Atlanteans were Hyperborean, Nordic supermen who originated at the North Pole (see Thule). Similarly, Alfred Rosenberg (in \"The Myth of the Twentieth Century\", 1930) spoke of a \"Nordic-Atlantean\" or \"Aryan-Nordic\" master race. This ideas may contradict the believes of several Esoteric and Theosophic groups that, on the contrary, thought that the Atlanteans were non-Causian brown skinned peoples. Also some Esoteric groups including the Theosophic Society does not consider Atlantean society to have been superior or Utopian, on the contrary, they consider a lower stage on evolution.\n\nEdgar Cayce was a man from humble upbringings in Kentucky who allegedly possessed psychic abilities, which were performed from a trance-like state. In addition to allegedly healing the sick from this state, he also spoke frequently on the topic of Atlantis. In his \"life readings,\" he purportedly revealed that many of his subjects were reincarnations of people who had lived on Atlantis. By tapping into their collective consciousness, the \"Akashic Records\" (a term borrowed from Theosophy), he declared that he was able to give detailed descriptions of the lost continent. He also asserted that Atlantis would \"rise\" again in the 1960s (sparking much popularity of the myth in that decade) and that there is a \"Hall of Records\" beneath the Egyptian Sphinx, which holds the historical texts of Atlantis.\n\nAs continental drift became widely accepted during the 1960s, and the increased understanding of plate tectonics demonstrated the impossibility of a lost continent in the geologically recent past, most \"Lost Continent\" theories of Atlantis began to wane in popularity.\n\nPlato scholar Julia Annas, Regents Professor of Philosophy at the University of Arizona, had this to say on the matter:\n\nOne of the proposed explanations for the historical context of the Atlantis story is a warning of Plato to his contemporary fourth-century fellow-citizens against their striving for naval power.\n\nKenneth Feder points out that Critias's story in the \"Timaeus\" provides a major clue. In the dialogue, Critias says, referring to Socrates' hypothetical society:\n\nFeder quotes A. E. Taylor, who wrote, \"We could not be told much more plainly that the whole narrative of Solon's conversation with the priests and his intention of writing the poem about Atlantis are an invention of Plato's fancy.\"\n\nSince Donnelly's day, there have been dozens of locations proposed for Atlantis, to the point where the name has become a generic concept, divorced from the specifics of Plato's account. This is reflected in the fact that many proposed sites are not within the Atlantic at all. Few today are scholarly or archaeological hypotheses, while others have been made by psychic (e.g., Edgar Cayce) or other pseudoscientific means. (The Atlantis researchers Jacques Collina-Girard and Georgeos Díaz-Montexano, for instance, each claim the other's hypothesis is pseudoscience.) Many of the proposed sites share some of the characteristics of the Atlantis story (water, catastrophic end, relevant time period), but none has been demonstrated to be a true historical Atlantis.\n\nMost of the historically proposed locations are in or near the Mediterranean Sea: islands such as Sardinia, Crete, Santorini (Thera), Sicily, Cyprus, and Malta; land-based cities or states such as Troy, Tartessos, and Tantalis (in the province of Manisa, Turkey); Israel-Sinai or Canaan; and northwestern Africa.\n\nThe Thera eruption, dated to the seventeenth or sixteenth century BC, caused a large tsunami that some experts hypothesize devastated the Minoan civilization on the nearby island of Crete, further leading some to believe that this may have been the catastrophe that inspired the story. In the area of the Black Sea the following locations have been proposed: Bosporus and Ancomah (a legendary place near Trabzon).\n\nOthers have noted that, before the sixth century BC, the mountains on either side of the Gulf of Laconia were called the \"Pillars of Hercules\", and they could be the geographical location being described in ancient reports upon which Plato was basing his story. The mountains stood at either side of the southernmost gulf in Greece, the largest in the Peloponnese, and that gulf opens onto the Mediterranean Sea. If from the beginning of discussions, misinterpretation of Gibraltar as the location rather than being at the Gulf of Laconia, would lend itself to many erroneous concepts regarding the location of Atlantis. Plato may have not been aware of the difference. The Laconian pillars open to the south toward Crete and beyond which is Egypt. The Thera eruption and the Late Bronze Age collapse affected that area and might have been the devastation to which the sources used by Plato referred. Significant events such as these would have been likely material for tales passed from one generation to another for almost a thousand years.\n\nThe location of Atlantis in the Atlantic Ocean has a certain appeal given the closely related names. Popular culture often places Atlantis there, perpetuating the original Platonic setting as they understand it. The Canary Islands and Madeira Islands have been identified as a possible location, west of the Straits of Gibraltar, but in relative proximity to the Mediterranean Sea. Detailed studies of their geomorphology and geology have demonstrated, however, that they have been steadily uplifted, without any significant periods of subsidence, over the last four million years, by geologic processes such as erosional unloading, gravitational unloading, lithospheric flexure induced by adjacent islands, and volcanic underplating. Various islands or island groups in the Atlantic were also identified as possible locations, notably the Azores. Similarly, cores of sediment covering the ocean bottom surrounding the Azores and other evidence demonstrate that it has been an undersea plateau for millions of years. The submerged island of Spartel near the Strait of Gibraltar has also been suggested.\n\nSeveral hypotheses place the sunken island in northern Europe, including Doggerland in the North Sea, and Sweden (by Olof Rudbeck in \"Atland\", 1672–1702). Doggerland, as well as Viking Bergen Island, is thought to have been flooded by a megatsunami following the Storegga slide of c. 6100 BC. Some have proposed the Celtic Shelf as a possible location, and that there is a link to Ireland.\n\nIn 2011, a team, working on a documentary for the National Geographic Channel, led by Professor Richard Freund from the University of Hartford, claimed to have found possible evidence of Atlantis in southwestern Andalusia. The team identified its possible location within the marshlands of the Doñana National Park, in the area that once was the Lacus Ligustinus, between the Huelva, Cádiz, and Seville provinces, and they speculated that Atlantis had been destroyed by a tsunami, extrapolating results from a previous study by Spanish researchers, published four years earlier.\n\nSpanish scientists have dismissed Freund's speculations, claiming that he sensationalised their work. The anthropologist Juan Villarías-Robles, who works with the Spanish National Research Council, said, \"Richard Freund was a newcomer to our project and appeared to be involved in his own very controversial issue concerning King Solomon's search for ivory and gold in Tartessos, the well documented settlement in the Doñana area established in the first millennium BC\", and described Freund's claims as \"fanciful\".\n\nA similar theory had previously been put forward by a German researcher, Rainer W. Kühne, that is based only on satellite imagery and places Atlantis in the Marismas de Hinojos, north of the city of Cádiz. Before that, the historian Adolf Schulten had stated in the 1920s that Plato had used Tartessos as the basis for his Atlantis myth.\n\nSeveral writers have speculated that Antarctica is the site of Atlantis, while others have proposed Caribbean locations such as the alleged Cuban sunken city off the Guanahacabibes peninsula in Cuba, the Bahamas, and the Bermuda Triangle. Areas in the Pacific and Indian Oceans have also been proposed including Indonesia (i.e. Sundaland). The stories of a lost continent off the coast of India, named \"Kumari Kandam,\" have inspired some to draw parallels to Atlantis.\n\nIn order to give his account of Atlantis verisimilitude, Plato mentions that the story was heard by Solon in Egypt, and transmitted orally over several generations through the family of Dropides, until it reached Critias, a dialogue speaker in \"Timaeus\" and \"Critias\". Solon had supposedly tried to adapt the Atlantis oral tradition into a poem (that if published, was to be greater than the works of Hesiod and Homer). While it was never completed, Solon passed on the story to Dropides. Modern classicists deny the existence of Solon's Atlantis poem and the story as an oral tradition. Instead, Plato is thought to be the sole inventor or fabricator.\nHellanicus of Lesbos used the word \"Atlantis\" as the title for a poem published before Plato, a fragment of which may be Oxyrhynchus Papyrus 11, 1359. This work only describes the Atlantides (the daughters of Atlas), however, and has no relation to Plato's Atlantis account.\n\nIn the new era, the third century AD Neoplatonist Zoticus wrote an epic poem based on Plato's account of Atlantis. Plato's work may already have inspired parodic imitation, however. Writing only a few decades after the \"Timaeus\" and \"Critias\", the historian Theopompus of Chios wrote of a land beyond the ocean known as Meropis. This description was included in Book 8 of his \"Philippica\", which contains a dialogue between Silenus and King Midas. Silenus describes the Meropids, a race of men who grow to twice normal size, and inhabit two cities on the island of Meropis: \"Eusebes\" (, \"Pious-town\") and \"Machimos\" (, \"Fighting-town\"). He also reports that an army of ten million soldiers crossed the ocean to conquer Hyperborea, but abandoned this proposal when they realized that the Hyperboreans were the luckiest people on earth. Heinz-Günther Nesselrath has argued that these and other details of Silenus' story are meant as imitation and exaggeration of the Atlantis story, by parody, for the purpose of exposing Plato's ideas to ridicule.\n\nThe creation of Utopian and dystopian fictions was renewed after the Renaissance, most notably in Francis Bacon’s \"New Atlantis\" (1627), the description of an ideal society that he located off the western coast of America. Thomas Heyrick (1649-1694) followed him with “The New Atlantis” (1687), a satirical poem in three parts. His new continent of uncertain location, perhaps even a floating island either in the sea or the sky, serves as background for his exposure of what he described in a second edition as “A True Character of Popery and Jesuitism”.\n\nThe title of \"The New Atalantis\" by Delarivier Manley (1709), distinguished from the two others by the single letter, is an equally dystopian work but set this time on a fictional Mediterranean island. In it sexual violence and exploitation is made a metaphor for the hypocritical behaviour of politicians in their dealings with the general public. In Manley’s case, the target of satire was the Whig Party, while in David Maclean Parry's \"The Scarlet Empire\" (1906) it is Socialism as practised in foundered Atlantis. It was followed in Russia by Velemir Khlebnikov's poem \"The Fall of Atlantis\" (\"Gibel' Atlantidy\", 1912), which is set in a future rationalist dystopia that has discovered the secret of immortality and is so dedicated to progress that it has lost touch with the past. When the high priest of this ideology is tempted by a slave girl into an act of irrationality, he murders her and precipitates a second flood, above which her severed head floats vengefully among the stars.\n\nA slightly later work, \"The Ancient of Atlantis\" (Boston, 1915) by Albert Armstrong Manship, expounds the Atlantean wisdom that is to redeem the earth. Its three parts consist of a verse narrative of the life and training of an Atlantean wise one, followed by his Utopian moral teachings and then a psychic drama set in modern times in which a reincarnated child embodying the lost wisdom is reborn on earth.\n\nIn Hispanic eyes, Atlantis had a more intimate interpretation. The land had been a colonial power which, although it had brought civilization to ancient Europe, had also enslaved its peoples. Its tyrannical fall from grace had contributed to the fate that had overtaken it, but now its disappearance had unbalanced the world. This was the point of view of Jacint Verdaguer’s vast mythological epic \"L’Atlantida\" (1877). After the sinking of the former continent, Hercules travels east across the Atlantic to found the city of Barcelona and then departs westward again to the Hesperides. The story is told by a hermit to a shipwrecked mariner, who is inspired to follow in his tracks and so “call the New World into existence to redress the balance of the Old”. This mariner, of course, was Christopher Columbus.\nVerdaguer’s poem was written in Catalan, but was widely translated in both Europe and Hispano-America. One response was the similarly entitled Argentinian \"Atlantida\" of Olegario Victor Andrade (1881), which sees in “Enchanted Atlantis that Plato foresaw, a golden promise to the fruitful race” of Latins. The bad example of the colonising world remains, however. Jose Juan Tablada characterises its threat in his “De Atlántida” (1894) through the beguiling picture of the lost world populated by the underwater creatures of Classical myth, among whom is the Siren of its final stanza with \nThere is a similar ambivalence in Janus Djurhuus’ six-stanza “Atlantis” (1917), where a celebration of the Faroese linguistic revival grants it an ancient pedigree by linking Greek to Norse legend. In the poem a female figure rising from the sea against a background of Classical palaces is recognised as a priestess of Atlantis. The poet recalls “that the Faroes lie there in the north Atlantic Ocean/ where before lay the poet-dreamt lands,” but also that in Norse belief, such a figure only appears to those about to drown.\n\nThe fact that Atlantis is a lost land has made of it a metaphor for something no longer attainable. For the American poet Edith Willis Linn Forbes (1865-1945), “The Lost Atlantis” stands for idealisation of the past; the present moment can only be treasured once that is realised. Ella Wheeler Wilcox finds the location of “The Lost Land” (1910) in one’s carefree youthful past. Similarly, for the Irish poet Eavan Boland in “Atlantis, a lost sonnet” (2007), the idea was defined when “the old fable-makers searched hard for a word/ to convey that what is gone is gone forever”.\n\nFor some male poets too, the idea of Atlantis is constructed from what cannot be obtained. Charles Bewley in his Newdigate Prize poem (1910) thinks it grows from dissatisfaction with one’s condition, \nin a dream of Atlantis. Similarly for the Australian Gary Catalano in a 1982 prose poem, it is “a vision that sank under the weight of its own perfection”. W. H. Auden, however, suggests a way out of such frustration through the metaphor of journeying toward Atlantis in his poem of 1941. While travelling, he advises the one setting out, you will meet with many definitions of the goal in view, only realising at the end that the way has all the time led inward.\n\nA few late nineteenth century verse narratives complement the genre fiction that was beginning to be written at the same period. Two of them report the disaster that overtook the continent as related by long-lived survivors. In Frederick Tennyson’s \"Atlantis\" (1888) an ancient Greek mariner sails west and discovers an inhabited island, which is all that remains of the former kingdom. He learns of its end and views the shattered remnant of its former glory, from which a few had escaped to set up the Mediterranean civilisations. In the second, \"Mona, Queen of Lost Atlantis: An Idyllic Re-embodiment of Long Forgotten History\" (Los Angeles CA 1925) by James Logue Dryden (1840-1925), the story is told in a series of visions. A Seer is taken to Mona’s burial chamber in the ruins of Atlantis, where she revives and describes the catastrophe. There follows a survey of the lost civilisations of Hyperborea and Lemuria as well as Atlantis, accompanied by much spiritualist lore.\n\nWilliam Walton Hoskins (1856-1919) admits to the readers of his \"Atlantis and other poems\" (Cleveland OH, 1881), that he is only 24. Its melodramatic plot concerns the poisoning of the descendant of god-born kings. The usurping poisoner is poisoned in his turn, following which the continent is swallowed in the waves. Asian gods people the landscape of \"The Lost Island\" (Ottawa 1889) by Edward Taylor Fletcher (1816–97). An angel foresees impending catastrophe and that the people will be allowed to escape if their semi-divine rulers will sacrifice themselves. A final example, Edward N. Beecher’s \"The Lost Atlantis or The Great Deluge of All\" (Cleveland OH, 1898) is just a doggerel vehicle for its author’s opinions: that the continent was the location of the Garden of Eden; that Darwin’s theory of evolution is correct, as are Donnelly’s views.\n\nAtlantis was to become a theme in Russia following the 1890s, taken up in unfinished poems by Valery Bryusov and Konstantin Balmont, as well as in a drama by the schoolgirl Larisa Reisner. One other long narrative poem was published in New York by George V. Golokhvastoff. His 250-page \"The Fall of Atlantis\" (1938) records how a high priest, distressed by the prevailing degeneracy of the ruling classes, seeks to create an androgynous being from royal twins as a means to overcome this polarity. When he is unable to control the forces unleashed by his occult ceremony, the continent is destroyed.\n\nThe Spanish composer Manuel de Falla worked on a dramatic cantata based on Verdaguer’s \"L’Atlántida\", during the last 20 years of his life. The name has been affixed to symphonies by Janis Ivanovs (1941), Richard Nanes, and Vaclav Buzek (2009). There was also the symphonic celebration of Alan Hovhaness: \"Fanfare for the New Atlantis\" (Op. 281, 1975).\n\nThe Bohemian-American composer and arranger Vincent Frank Safranek wrote \"Atlantis (The Lost Continent) Suite in Four Parts\"; I. Nocturne and Morning Hymn of Praise, II. A Court Function, III. ″I Love Thee″ (The Prince and Aana), IV. The Destruction of Atlantis, for military (concert) band in 1913.\n\nThe 1968 song Atlantis by Scottish singer Donovan described Atlantis and its hypothetical fate. It charted in several countries, reaching #1 in Switzerland in 1969 and as high as #7 in the United States.\n\nPaintings of the submersion of Atlantis are comparatively rare. In the seventeenth century there was François de Nomé’s “The Fall of Atlantis”, which shows a tidal wave surging toward a Baroque city frontage. The style of architecture apart, it is not very different from Nicholas Roerich’s “The Last of Atlantis” of 1928.\n\nThe most dramatic depiction of the catastrophe was Leon Bakst’s “Ancient Terror” (\"Terror Antiquus\", 1908), although it does not name Atlantis directly. It is a mountain-top view of a rocky bay breached by the sea, which is washing inland about the tall structures of an ancient city. A streak of lightning crosses the upper half of the painting, while below it rises the impassive figure of an enigmatic goddess who holds a blue dove between her breasts. Vyacheslav Ivanov identified the subject as Atlantis in a public lecture on the painting given in 1909, the year it was first exhibited, and he has been followed by other commentators in the years since.\n\nSculptures referencing Atlantis have often been stylized single figures. One of the earliest was Einar Jónsson’s \"The King of Atlantis\" (1919–1922), now in the garden of his museum in Reykjavik. It represents a single figure, clad in a belted skirt and wearing a large triangular helmet, who sits on an ornate throne supported between two young bulls. The walking female entitled \"Atlantis\" (1946) by Ivan Meštrović was from a series inspired by ancient Greek figures with the symbolical meaning of unjustified suffering.\n\nIn the case of the Brussels fountain feature known as \"The Man of Atlantis\" (2003) by the Belgian sculptor , the 4-metre tall figure wearing a diving suit steps from a plinth into the spray. It looks light-hearted but the artist’s comment on it makes a serious point: \"Because habitable land will be scarce, it is no longer improbable that we will return to the water in the long term. As a result, a portion of the population will mutate into fish-like creatures. Global warming and rising water levels are practical problems for the world in general and here in the Netherlands in particular\".\nRobert Smithson’s \"Hypothetical Continent (Map of broken clear glass, Atlantis)\" was first created as a photographical project on Loveladies Island NJ in 1969, and then recreated as a gallery installation of broken glass. On this he commented that he liked “landscapes that suggest prehistory”, and this is borne out by the original conceptual drawing of the work that includes an inset map of the continent sited off the coast of Africa and at the straits into the Mediterranean.\n\nUnderwater geography:\n\nGeneral:\n\nAncient sources\n\nModern sources\n"}
{"id": "5613021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5613021", "title": "Brian Brennan (author)", "text": "Brian Brennan (author)\n\nBrian Anthony Brennan (born October 4, 1943) is an Irish-Canadian author and historian who specializes in books about the colourful personalities of Western Canada's past.\n\nBorn in Dublin, Ireland, he migrated to Canada in 1966 and has lived in Calgary, Alberta, since 1974. He spent 25 years as a staff writer with the \"Calgary Herald\" writing columns and feature stories.\n\nBrennan was part of an attempt by the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada to organize a union local for the newsroom and negotiate a first contract with the \"Calgary Herald\". Before and during the eight-month strike by journalists in 1999 and 2000, Brennan was a member of the union's bargaining committee. When the strike ended in June 2000 with the dissolution of the union, he left the Herald to devote himself full-time to writing books. He was the first winner of the Dave Greber Freelance Writers Award, presented in 2004 for his book \"Romancing the Rockies\".\n\nA longtime National Council member of The Writers' Union of Canada, he quit the union in 2018 when the union executive supported a decision by the editor of the union magazine to kill a story about a writers' conference in San Miguel de Allende Mexico that she had commissioned Brennan to write.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43592849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43592849", "title": "Catherine Gavin", "text": "Catherine Gavin\n\nCatherine Irvine Gavin (1907–2000) was a Scottish academic historian, war correspondent, and historical novelist.\n\nGavin was born in Aberdeen in 1907, and studied history and English at the University of Aberdeen, graduating with first-class honours. After obtaining a doctorate on Louis Philippe of France, in 1931, she took up positions as a history lecturer at Aberdeen and at the University of Glasgow. She stood as a Unionist candidate in two parliamentary elections in the 1930s, but without success.\n\nDuring World War II, she worked in France and the Netherlands for Kemsley Newspapers. after the war, she married American advertising executive John Ashcraft and moved to the United States with him. they were together until his death in 1998.\n\nShe appeared as a \"castaway\" on the BBC Radio programme \"Desert Island Discs\" on 24 June 1978.\n\nThe University of Aberdeen awarded her an honorary D Litt in 1986. The Catherine Gavin Room there is named in her honour. The university has a 1940 portrait of her, in oil, by Elizabeth Mary Watt.\n\nShe died in 2000, aged 92.\n\nGavin's works (described by FictionDB as \"historical romances\") include the following:\n"}
{"id": "21664160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21664160", "title": "Chiapas conflict", "text": "Chiapas conflict\n\nThe Chiapas conflict (Spanish: \"Conflicto de Chiapas\") refers to the 1994 Zapatista Uprising and its aftermath, and tensions between the indigenous peoples and subsistence farmers in the Mexican state of Chiapas from the 1990s to the present day.\n\nThe Zapatista uprising started in January 1994, and lasted less than two weeks before a ceasefire was agreed upon. The principal belligerents of subsection of the conflict were the Zapatista Army of National Liberation (Spanish: \"Ejército Zapatista de Liberación Nacional;\" ELZN) and the government of Mexico. Negotiations between the government and Zapatistas led to agreements being signed, but were often not complied with in the following years as the peace process stagnated. This resulted in an increasing division between communities with ties to the government and communities that sympathized with the Zapatistas. Social tensions, armed conflict and para-military incidents increased, culminating in the killing of 45 people in the village of Acteal in 1997 by an anti-zapatista militia. Though at a low level, rebel activity continues and violence occasionally erupts between Zapatista supporters and anti-Zapatista militias along with the government. The last related incident occurred in 2014, when a Zapatista-affiliated teacher was killed and 15 more wounded in Chiapas.\n\nAfter the Mexican War of Independence, Mexico kept many features of its Spanish colonizers, including limpieza de sangre or \"cleanliness of blood,\" a legal code that distinguished those of non-Christian ancestries from those of Christian ones. This was the starting point for many land rights and social rights struggles in Mexico, some of which can be attributed to the strict structure of Mexican social classes with the Criollo people at the top, who were Mexicans of direct Spanish descent.\n\nThe same issue appeared amongst the non-Criollo population in later years, especially among the Mestizo population during the 19th century. In the Mexican Revolution of 1910, poor farmers and other marginalized groups, led in part by Emiliano Zapata, rebelled against the government and large land tenants due to failures of the authoritarian regime of Porfirio Díaz. It is from Zapata that the Zapatistas got their name.\nThe years after the revolution saw several agrarian reforms, and through Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution the encomienda system was abolished and the right to communal land and other resources for the people of Mexico was granted in accordance with the principles set forth by Zapata. This part of the Constitution more specifically gave the traditionally communal indigenous groups within the country the \"legal capacity to enjoy common possession of the lands, forests, and waters belonging to them or which have been or may be restored to them.\" Thus, the ejido system was created, which organized lands that were able to be worked by various members of rural and indigenous communities, but were often sold off to multinational corporations. The compromise recognized the right of individuals to own private property and of associations, whether Indian or other, to similarly own property, thereby allowing for security, safety, and property of the mostly Spanish upper class whilst elevating Indian and Meztizo groups to equality before the law while simultaneously allowing them to retain their traditional pre-colonial and colonial customs and rights.\n\nHowever, since the issues of material and political equality were more complex than simple Marxist land class problems, rather than instantly bringing about an increase in material wealth and standard of living, the living conditions of most of the country remained as before.\n\nThis was especially true in the Yucatán peninsula where stubborn resistance of the Mayan population along with complex historical development features, kept the geographical area divided between an almost wholly European property owning and wage earning population living along the coasts and certain inland areas and the interior which in essence remained a Mayan country of collective ownership. Consequently, removed from the overall Mexican economic system, the native Mayan Indian nation remained as a free but marginalized underclass much the same as before the revolution.\n\nThe hardened division of class and race remained in the Yucatán until the 1950s when the Mexican government began to use economic policy to better integrate indigenous Mayans into Mexican society. Perceiving the lack of sufficient jobs in the city and desirous of not upsetting the Mexican communities in the cities, the government encouraged and steered many landless farmers, mainly Mayan Indians, into settling in the uncultivated Lacandon Jungle and the abandoned white farms which had suffered an enduring economic depression of the previous twenty years. However, although this kept a social crisis from occurring in the cities, it enraged many displaced Mexican farmers, especially of Criollo class, whose rights to land and title were supposedly being ignored in contravention of the compromise of the Mexican revolution. Thus, during the 1950s and 1960s, this immigration of Mayans into former white lands led to land-related conflicts and an increasing pressure on the rain forest which in turn led to environmental degradation and further economic ruin of the rural economy. Furthermore, rather than bring individual Mayan families into the practice of private property and the larger Mexican economy, the process backfired as much of the surplus Mayan community moved from its traditional areas into the new lands.\n\nAs the crisis threatened to grow into rebellion by the mostly European population, and realizing that the ecological ruin caused by the movement wasn't being mitigated by economic prosperity within the Mayan population, the government decided to halt the migration.\n\nTo halt the migration, the government decided in 1971 to declare a large part of the forest (614,000 hectares, or 6140 km2), encompassing both the previously unsettled regions and the former Mexican-owned farms, as a protected area: the \"Montes Azules Bio-sphere Reserve\". They appointed only one small population group (66 Lacandon Indian families) as tenants (thus creating the Lacandon Community), thereby displacing 2000 Tzeltal and Chol families from 26 communities, and leaving non-Lacandon communities dependent on the government for asserting their rights to land.\nSince the 1980s and 1990s, Mexico's economic policy concentrated more on industrial development and attracting foreign capital. However, this policy soon changed to try to brand Mexico as more of an agricultural power, which culminated in the administration of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari initiating a process of privatization of land through several amendments in 1992, which put the process of determining communal land under federal jurisdiction. The EZLN claims that it has existed since 1983, although it only began to gain traction by the early 1990s.\nIn 1982, General Absalon Castellanos Dominguez, then Governor of Chiapas, increased acts of violent oppression against indigenous people. Members of the National Liberation Forces (FLN), including Rafael Vicente, eventually known as Subcomandante Marcos—the eventual face and principal spokesman of the EZLN—moved into the area later that year, and by late 1983 the EZLN was formed by 3 indigenous people and 3 mestizos. As the group grew, it became more like the state state of Chiapas, consisting primarily of indigenous or partly indigenous people. \n\nIn December 1993, The Zapatista Army of National Liberation (EZLN) issued the First Declaration of the Lacandon Jungle, which declared that the government of Mexico and President Gortari were illegitimate. This declaration was heavily rooted in Emeliano Zapata's Plan of Ayala (1911), which denounced President Francisco Madero and proposed several measures to reform the government.\n\nOn 1 January 1994, the EZLN began their military insurrection in the southernmost province of Mexico, Chiapas, in the name of the rights of oppressed indigenous peoples and democracy; this was the same date on which the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) took effect. The EZLN based their operations out of the Lacandon Jungle, and used this as their launching point for capturing the towns of Ocosingo, Las Margaritas, Altamirano, and San Cristóbal de las Casas. By 2 January, the rebels had already captured former Governor Castellanos Dominguez, and proceeded hold him hostage due to their own tribunal finding him guilty of anti-indigenous crimes and corruption, and sentenced him to forced labor. By 3 January, the EZLN had lost over 50 of its soldiers, and over 100 civilians had been killed, but had withdrawn from San Cristóbal de las Casas, as they could not maintain their grip on it; they had also liberated a government prison with about 180 inmates. \n\nDuring the period of 1-12 January 1994, there was a large discretion between the information released and spread by the two respective sides. The government insisted that there were only a few hundred rebels, while the EZLN reported that they numbered in the thousands. \n\nThe federal government reached a ceasefire agreement with the EZLN on 12 January, and on 17 February the peace negotiators of each party met for the first time, resulting in the freeing of Castellanos Dominguez. Manuel Camacho Solis was the government's chief peace negotiator, Subcomandante Marcos was the EZLN's, and Bishop Samuel Ruiz Garcia mediated between the two parties. As peace talks continued, there were several high and low points in apparent progress in drafting an agreement, but eventually there was a shift in strategy on the part of the rebels to keep up the talks until the upcoming Mexican Election, to increase the pressure on the government after years of having little to no way to influence government policy or actions. On 11 June, the EZLN rejected the agreement proposed by the Mexican government, but reinforced its commitment to the ceasefire unless the government broke it first. By mid-October, tensions began escalating when the rebels threatened action if the Governor-Elect Eduardo Robledo Rincon of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) were to take office. Subcomandante Marcos also heightened the rhetoric in this situation: \"If they want lead, we'll give them lead... We are an army, not a labor union or some neighborhood club.\" \n\nThese developments attracted a lot of international attention and criticism. While human rights organizations emphasized the marginalization of the indigenous population, Riordan Roett (adviser to the Emerging Markets Group of the Chase Manhattan Bank) stated in January 1995:\n\n\"While Chiapas, in our opinion, does not pose a fundamental threat to Mexican political stability, it is perceived to be so by many in the investment community. The government will need to eliminate the Zapatistas to demonstrate their effective control of the national territory and of security policy.\"\n\nJust 2 days later the Mexican army came into action to bring the Zapatista occupied areas back under their control, but they did not succeed in arresting subcomandante Marcos or other leaders of the EZLN.\n\nIn February 1995, the new President, Ernesto Zedillo, attacked the EZLN once again, which proved to be politically unpopular, resulting in new peace negotiations that culminated in the San Andrés Accords of 1996. This treaty indicated an agreement on the importance of indigenous autonomy and land reform. \n\nIn 1996, the Comisión de Concordia y Pacificación (COCOPA) presented a proposal of constitutional reform (the Cocopa law) based on the San Andrés Accords to the EZLN and the federal government. As a gesture of political will to solve the conflict peacefully the Zedillo government signed this proposal, thereby recognizing the indigenous culture and its right to land and autonomy (in concordance with International Labour Organization convention 169, signed by Mexico in 1990).\n\nOn 21 March, 1999, several referendums on the rights of indigenous people were held with support of the EZLN, and the people voted in support of the San Andrés Accords, although turnout was low compared to general elections in that time period. \n\nIn the months leading up to the Acteal Massacre, growing violence resulted in over 6000 people being displaced, and 25 had been killed in the area. In December, 1997, this culminated in the largest incident of violence of the Chiapas Conflict since the initial rebellion took place in the village of Acteal, in which 45 indigenous people, 15 of whom were children, were murdered by people with machetes and AK-47 assault rifles inside a church. \n\nFollowing the killing, the investigation was led by Attorney General Jorge Madrazo Cuellar, and the witnesses/survivors of the Acteal Massacre have said that the attackers were loyalists to the governing PRI. By the end of the month, several people had been charged with the killings, including the de facto mayor of Acteal, Jacinto Arias Cruz, a member of the PRI, resulting in the national party denying any connection to the killings and to the mayor. \n\nOn 2 July, 2000, the first non-PRI president was elected, Vicente Fox, ending the PRI's 71 year grip on the office. His campaign focused on increasing economic growth and ending government corruption.\n\nIn March 2001, about 100,000 supporters of the Zapatistas and the rights of indigenous people mobilized in Mexico City to express their demands of the government; many of the rebels, lead by Subcomandante Marcos, traveled for two weeks to reach the cite of the political rally. This march was known as the \"March of the Color of the Earth\" (Spanish: \"La Marcha del Color de la Tierra\") after a quote by Marcos. The Zapatistas expressed support for a Bill of Rights for the nation's minority Indian population and, in his speech to the crowds, Marcos demanded that President Fox \"listen to us,\" despite Fox's vocal support for, and initial proposal of, the Zapatista-backed legislation. By the end of April 2001, the Bill was passed by Congress by a wide margin, with Fox's support, but underwent several amendments before it was passed that was criticized by a number of indigenous leaders. The Zapatistas referred to the final version of the law as a \"betrayal\" because of its failure to affirm the communal rights indigenous people had to land, other natural resources, and to have autonomous states within Mexico, contrary to the San Andrés Accords. \n\nIn response to the passage of the law with its new amendments, the ELZN suspended dialogue with the government and created a new system of leadership, which was necessary to govern autonomously as the San Andrés Accords allowed, in principle, and created \"Good Government Committees (JBG)\" to do so. \n\nThe peace process has been in a gridlock ever since, the government officially ignores the EZLN, seeing it just as a political rival, but armed attacks involving pro-government para-military groups frequently make civilian casualties. (see the list below).\n\nThe last violent incident occurred in 2014, with a Zapatista-related teacher killed and 15 more wounded in Chiapas ambush by alleged anti-Zapatista militia; however, there appears to be some dispute as to whether the casualties occurred due to a \"confrontation\" or an \"ambush of unarmed\" civilians. \n\nAlthough and because the Chiapas conflict is intricately linked with low intensity conflict and fourth generation warfare, it is important to stress that the conflict is not only about military or para-military action against armed rebels. Addressing the problems in the region with social development programs are often interpreted by the target group as \"counter-insurgency light\"; as a means to divide and rule.\n\nSince the creation of the Lacandon Community (1971) and the growing tensions in the region, and even more so since the Zapatista uprising (1994), the government has been faced by three challenges:\n\nThese goals have been included in several social development programs. Examples are \"Programa Solidaridad\", \"Plan Cañadas\", \"PIDSS\", and Prodesis.\n\n\"Plan Cañadas\" (1994–2001) (cañada = glen or valley) was conceived after they found guerrilla training camps in the Lacandon Jungle in 1993 (just before the Zapatista uprising). This programme was aimed at suppressing the expected uprising by social means, by giving support to people who were more favourably disposed to the government, and thus ensuring their loyalty to the state. Over time \"Plan Cañadas\" was criticised for being a counter-insurgency project (\"counter-insurgency-by-other-means\", or \"counter-insurgency light\") designed in the framework of the low intensity conflict:\n\n\"It was in the aftermath of the rebellion that the Mexican government began to devote resources to the region for development, establishing the Cañadas Programme. However, a few years after the initiative was introduced it became highly criticised because of its counter-insurgent character (it offered resources in exchange for the abandonment of the Zapatista cause) and because of its failure in promoting development.\"\n\"Plan Cañada\"'s successor was the \"Integral Programme for the Sustainable Development of the Jungle\": \"PIDSS\" (Programa Integral para el Desarrollo Sustentable de la Selva). This project, that started in 2001, was introduced as \"a joint effort to foster development in a participatory way\". Goals were to change the relationship between government and society, foster social reconciliation, exclude paternalism, promote participation, and endorse real development projects. The implementation of the programme was achieved through the creation of 34 micro-regions (similar to those under which the \"Cañadas Programme\" worked). However, \"PIDSS\" received much of the same criticism as \"Plan Cañadas\":\n\nThe follow-up of \"PIDSS\" was Prodesis (2004–2008), an EU-Chiapas cooperation project targeted at 16 of the 34 micro-regions identified by \"PIDSS\".\nThe difficulties this new project encountered were exactly the same as the PIDSS-project stumbled upon:\n\n\nAll of these projects \"(Cañadas, PIDSS, Prodesis)\" have been criticized for being actually counter-insurgency projects, aimed at controlling and pacifying the population, rather than improving their living conditions and resolving the conflict by addressing the land issue. Because of scepticism among the target groups of these programs (for lack of consultation, transparency and democracy, by being top-down and counter-insurgent, and having no respect for the population or local organizations) many projects fail. Therefore, a future challenge for the government (federal or state) is to:\n\nTotal casualties during the conflict: 105 killed.\n\nWhile the Zapatistas have little physical effect outside of Chiapas, their domination of the \"information space\" has strengthened their image and allies from foreign activists and journalists. Because the members of EZLN are residents of Chiapas, living in the jungle, original material for the organization started out as written communiques for media outlets, which were then uploaded to the Internet. Many forums and websites dedicated to the discussion of the Chiapas conflict are sponsored by advocacy groups centered on Latin America and indigenous protection, mostly situated in North America and Western Europe. Soon after the uprising, fax campaigns and public caravans were popular methods of gaining media attention and organizing supporters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53140335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53140335", "title": "Christian Quix", "text": "Christian Quix\n\nChristian Quix (8 October 1773, Hoensbroek, Heerlen – 13 January 1844, Aachen) was a Roman Catholic priest, heimatforscher and from 1833 the director of the Stadtbibliothek Aachen, the city library of Aachen.\n\nThe son of a typical tenant farming family from the Dutch province of Limburg, after his abitur he pursued a theological career. He entered the Carmelite order in 1792 and was ordained priest in 1795. However, the abolition of the monasteries in the French department of Roer cut his employment prospects and he left the order to work as a private tutor. From 1806 until early retirement due to deafness in 1823 he was appointed to what is now the Kaiser-Karls-Gymnasium in Aachen, teaching ancient languages, history and natural history and developing his own knowledge of these topics. After 1823 he devoted himself to research on local history, gathering documents and archival materials from various monasteries and offices, evaluating them and writing works on them.\n\n"}
{"id": "6273584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6273584", "title": "Conatus", "text": "Conatus\n\nIn early philosophies of psychology and metaphysics, conatus (; Latin for \"effort; endeavor; impulse, inclination, tendency; undertaking; striving\") is an innate inclination of a thing to continue to exist and enhance itself. This \"thing\" may be mind, matter, or a combination of both. Over the millennia, many different definitions and treatments have been formulated. Seventeenth-century philosophers René Descartes, Baruch Spinoza, Gottfried Leibniz, and Thomas Hobbes made important contributions. The \"conatus\" may refer to the instinctive \"will to live\" of living organisms or to various metaphysical theories of motion and inertia. Often the concept is associated with God's will in a pantheist view of Nature. The concept may be broken up into separate definitions for the mind and body and split when discussing centrifugal force and inertia.\n\nThe history of the term \"conatus\" is that of a series of subtle tweaks in meaning and clarifications of scope developed over the course of two and a half millennia. Successive philosophers to adopt the term put their own personal twist on the concept, each developing the term differently such that it now has no accepted definition. The earliest authors to discuss \"conatus\" wrote primarily in Latin, basing their usage on ancient Greek concepts. These thinkers therefore used \"conatus\" not only as a technical term but as a common word and in a general sense. In archaic texts, the more technical usage is difficult to discern from the more common one, and they are also hard to differentiate in translation. In English translations, the term is italicized when used in the technical sense or translated and followed by \"conatus\" in brackets. Today, \"conatus\" is rarely used in the technical sense, since modern physics uses concepts such as inertia and conservation of momentum that have superseded it. It has, however, been a notable influence on nineteenth- and twentieth-century thinkers such as Arthur Schopenhauer, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Louis Dumont.\n\nThe Latin \"cōnātus\" comes from the verb \"cōnor\", which is usually translated into English as, \"to endeavor\"; but the concept of the \"conatus\" was first developed by the Stoics (333–264 BCE) and Peripatetics (c. 335 BCE) before the Common Era. These groups used the word (\"hormê\", translated in Latin by \"impetus\") to describe the movement of the soul towards an object, and from which a physical act results. Classical thinkers, Marcus Tullius Cicero (106–43 BCE) and Diogenes Laertius (c. 235 BCE), expanded this principle to include an aversion to destruction, but continued to limit its application to the motivations of non-human animals. Diogenes Laertius, for example, specifically denied the application of the term to plants. Before the Renaissance, Thomas Aquinas (c. 1225–1274 CE), Duns Scotus (c. 1266–1308 CE) and Dante Alighieri (1265–1321 CE) expressed similar sentiments using the Latin words \"vult\", \"velle\" or \"appetit\" as synonyms of \"conatus\"; indeed, all four terms may be used to translate the original Greek . Later, Telesius and Campanella extended the ancient Greek notions and applied them to all objects, animate and inanimate.\n\nFirst Aristotle, then Cicero and Laertius each alluded to a connection between the \"conatus\" and other emotions. In their view, the former induces the latter. They maintained that humans do not wish to do something because they think it \"good\", but rather they think it \"good\" because they want to do it. In other words, the cause of human desire is the natural inclination of a body to augment itself in accordance with the principles of the \"conatus\".\n\nThere is a traditional connection between \"conatus\" and motion itself. Aquinas and Abravanel (1265–1321) both related the concept directly to that which Augustine (354–430 CE) saw to be the \"natural movements upward and downward or with their being balanced in an intermediate position\" described in his \"De Civitate Dei\", (c. 520 CE). They called this force that causes objects to rise or fall, \"amor naturalis\", or \"natural love\".\n\nIn the 6th century, John Philoponus (c. 490–c. 570 CE) criticized Aristotle's view of motion, noting the inconsistency between Aristotle's discussion of projectiles, where the medium of aether keeps projectiles going, and his discussion of the void, where there is no such medium and hence a body's motion should be impossible. Philoponus proposed that motion was not maintained by the action of some surrounding medium but by some property, or \"conatus\" implanted in the object when it was set in motion. This was not the modern concept of inertia, for there was still the need for an inherent power to keep a body in motion. This view was strongly opposed by Averroës and many scholastic philosophers who supported Aristotle. The Aristotelian view was also challenged in the Islamic world. For example, Ibn al-Haytham (Alhazen) seems to have supported Philoponus' views, while he developed a concept similar to inertia. The concept of inertia was developed more clearly in the work of his contemporary Avicenna, who conceived a permanent force whose effect is dissipated only as a result of external agents such as air resistance, making him \"the first to conceive such a permanent type of impressed virtue for non-natural motion.\" Avicenna's concept of \"mayl\" is almost the opposite of the Aristotelian conception of violent motion and is reminiscent of Newton's first law of motion. Avicenna also developed an idea similar to momentum, when he attempted to provide a quantitative relation between the weight and velocity of a moving body.\n\nJean Buridan (1300–1358) also rejected the notion that this motion-generating property, which he named \"impetus\", dissipated spontaneously. Buridan's position was that a moving object would be arrested by the resistance of the air and the weight of the body which would oppose its impetus. He also maintained that impetus increased with speed; thus, his initial idea of impetus was similar in many ways to the modern concept of momentum. Despite the obvious similarities to more modern ideas of inertia, Buridan saw his theory as only a modification to Aristotle's basic philosophy, maintaining many other peripatetic views, including the belief that there was still a fundamental difference between an object in motion and an object at rest. Buridan also maintained that impetus could be not only linear, but also circular in nature, causing objects such as celestial bodies to move in a circle.\n\nIn the first half of the seventeenth century, René Descartes (1596–1650) began to develop a more modern, materialistic concept of the \"conatus\", describing it as \"an active power or tendency of bodies to move, expressing the power of God\". Whereas the ancients used the term in a strictly anthropomorphic sense similar to voluntary \"endeavoring\" or \"struggling\" to achieve certain ends, and medieval Scholastic philosophers developed a notion of \"conatus\" as a mysterious intrinsic property of things, Descartes uses the term in a somewhat more mechanistic sense. More specifically, for Descartes, in contrast to Buridan, movement and stasis are two states of the same thing, not different things. Although there is much ambiguity in Descartes' notion of \"conatus\", one can see here the beginnings of a move away from the attribution of desires and intentions to nature and its workings toward a more scientific and modern view.\n\nDescartes rejects the teleological, or purposive, view of the material world that was dominant in the West from the time of Aristotle. The mind is not viewed by Descartes as part of the material world, and hence is not subject to the strictly mechanical laws of nature. Motion and rest, on the other hand, are properties of the interactions of matter according to eternally fixed mechanical laws. God only sets the whole thing in motion at the start, and later does not interfere except to maintain the dynamical regularities of the mechanical behavior of bodies. Hence there is no real teleology in the movements of bodies since the whole thing reduces to the law-governed collisions and their constant reconfigurations. The \"conatus\" is just the tendency of bodies to move when they collide with each other. God may set this activity in motion, but thereafter no \"new\" motion or rest can be created or destroyed.\n\nDescartes specifies two varieties of the \"conatus\": \"conatus a centro\" and \"conatus recedendi\". \"Conatus a centro\", or \"tendency towards the center\", is used by Descartes as a theory of gravity; \"conatus recendendi\", or \"tendency away from the center\", represents the centrifugal forces. These tendencies are not to be thought of in terms of animate dispositions and intentions, nor as inherent properties or \"forces\" of things, but rather as a unifying, external characteristic of the physical universe itself which God has bestowed.\n\nDescartes, in developing his First Law of Nature, also invokes the idea of a \"conatus se movendi\", or \"\"conatus\" of self-preservation\". This law is a generalization of the principle of inertia, which was developed and experimentally demonstrated earlier by Galileo. The principle was formalized by Isaac Newton and made into the first of his three Laws of Motion fifty years after the death of Descartes. Descartes' version states: \"Each thing, insofar as in it lies, always perseveres in the same state, and when once moved, always continues to move.\"\n\nThomas Hobbes (1588–1679), too, worked off of the previous notions of the \"conatus\" principle. However, he criticized the previous definitions for failing to explain the origin of motion. Working toward this end became the primary focus of Hobbes' work in this area. Indeed, Hobbes \"reduces all the cognitive functions of the mind to variations of its \"conative\" functions\".\n\nFurthermore, Hobbes describes emotion as the beginning of motion and the will as the sum of all emotions. This \"will\" forms the \"conatus\" of a body and its physical manifestation is the perceived \"will to survive\". In order that living beings may thrive, Hobbes says, \"they seek peace and fight anything that threatens this peace\". Hobbes also equates this \"conatus\" with \"imagination\", and states that a change in the \"conatus\", or will, is the result of \"deliberation\".\n\nI define [\"conatus\"] to be motion made in less space and time than can be given; that is, less than can be determined or assigned by exposition or number; that is, motion made through the length of a point, and in an instant or point of time.\nAs in his psychological theory, Hobbes's physical \"conatus\" is an infinitesimal unit of motion. It is the \"beginning\" of motion: an inclination in a specified direction. The concept of \"impetus\", as used by Hobbes, is defined in terms of this physical \"conatus\". It is \"a measure of the \"conatus\" exercised by a moving body over the course of time\". Resistance is caused by a contrary \"conatus\"; force is this motion plus \"the magnitude of the body\". Hobbes also uses the word \"conatus\" to refer to the \"restorative forces\" which may cause springs, for example, to contract or expand. Hobbes claims there is some force inherent in these objects that inclines them to return to their previous state. Today, science attributes this phenomenon to material elasticity.\n\nConatus is a central theme in the philosophy of Benedict de Spinoza (1632–1677). According to Spinoza, \"each thing, as far as it lies in itself, strives to persevere in its being\" (\"Ethics\", part 3, prop. 6). Spinoza presents a few reasons for believing this. First, particular things are, as he puts it, modes of God, which means that each one expresses the power of God in a particular way (\"Ethics\", part 3, prop. 6, dem.). Moreover, it could never be part of the definition of God that his modes contradict one another (\"Ethics\", part 3, prop. 5); each thing, therefore, \"is opposed to everything which can take its existence away\" (\"Ethics\", part 3, prop. 6, dem.). This resistance to destruction is formulated by Spinoza in terms of a striving to continue to exist, and \"conatus\" is the word he most often uses to describe this force.\n\nStriving to persevere is not merely something that a thing does in addition to other activities it might happen to undertake. Rather, striving is \"nothing but the actual essence of the thing\" (\"Ethics\", part 3, prop. 7). Spinoza also uses the term \"conatus\" to refer to rudimentary concepts of inertia, as Descartes had earlier. Since a thing cannot be destroyed without the action of external forces, motion and rest, too, exist indefinitely until disturbed.\n\nThe concept of the \"conatus\", as used in Baruch Spinoza's psychology, is derived from sources both ancient and medieval. Spinoza reformulates principles that the Stoics, Cicero, Laertius, and especially Hobbes and Descartes developed. One significant change he makes to Hobbes' theory is his belief that the \"conatus ad motum\", (\"conatus\" to motion), is \"not\" mental, but material.\n\nSpinoza, with his determinism, believes that man and nature must be unified under a consistent set of laws; God and nature are one, and there is no free will. Contrary to most philosophers of his time and in accordance with most of those of the present, Spinoza rejects the dualistic assumption that mind, intentionality, ethics, and freedom are to be treated as things separate from the natural world of physical objects and events. His goal is to provide a unified explanation of all these things within a naturalistic framework, and his notion of \"conatus\" is central to this project. For example, an action is \"free\", for Spinoza, only if it arises from the essence and \"conatus\" of an entity. There can be no absolute, unconditioned freedom of the will, since all events in the natural world, including human actions and choices, are determined in accord with the natural laws of the universe, which are inescapable. However, an action can still be free in the sense that it is not constrained or otherwise subject to external forces.\n\nHuman beings are thus an integral part of nature. Spinoza explains seemingly irregular human behaviour as really \"natural\" and rational and motivated by this principle of the \"conatus\". In the process, he replaces the notion of free will with the \"conatus\", a principle that can be applied to all of nature and not just man.\n\nSpinoza's view of the relationship between the \"conatus\" and the human affects is not clear. Firmin DeBrabander, assistant professor of philosophy at the Maryland Institute College of Art, and Antonio Damasio, professor of neuroscience at the University of Southern California, both argue that the human affects arise from the \"conatus\" and the perpetual drive toward perfection. Indeed, Spinoza states in his \"Ethics\" that happiness, specifically, \"consists in the human capacity to preserve itself\". This \"endeavor\" is also characterized by Spinoza as the \"foundation of virtue\". Conversely, a person is saddened by anything that opposes his \"conatus\".\n\nDavid Bidney (1908–1987), professor at Yale University, disagrees. Bidney closely associates \"desire\", a primary affect, with the \"conatus\" principle of Spinoza. This view is backed by the Scholium of IIIP9 of the \"Ethics\" which states, \"Between appetite and desire there is no difference, except that desire is generally related to men insofar as they are conscious of the appetite. So desire can be defined as appetite together with consciousness of the appetite.\" According to Bidney, this desire is controlled by the other affects, pleasure and pain, and thus the \"conatus\" strives towards that which causes joy and avoids that which produces pain.\n\nGottfried Leibniz (1646–1716) was a student of Erhard Weigel (1625–1699) and learned of the \"conatus\" principle from him and from Hobbes, though Weigel used the word \"tendentia\" (Latin: tendency). Specifically, Leibniz uses the word \"conatus\" in his \"Exposition and Defence of the New System\" (1695) to describe a notion similar that of Hobbes, but he differentiates between the \"conatus\" of the body and soul, the first of which may only travel in a straight line by its own power, and the latter of which may \"remember\" more complicated motions.\n\nFor Leibniz, the problem of motion comes to a resolution of the paradox of Zeno.\nSince motion is continuous, space must be infinitely divisible. In order for anything to begin moving at all, there must be some mind-like, voluntaristic property or force inherent in the basic constituents of the universe that propels them. This \"conatus\" is a sort of instantaneous or \"virtual\" motion that all things possess, even when they are static. Motion, meanwhile, is just the summation of all the \"conatuses\" that a thing has, along with the interactions of things. The \"conatus\" is to motion as a point is to space. The problem with this view is that an object that collides with another would not be able to bounce back, if the only force in play were the \"conatus\". Hence, Leibniz was forced to postulate the existence of an aether that kept objects moving and allowed for elastic collisions. Leibniz' concept of a mind-like memory-less property of \"conatus\", coupled with his rejection of atoms, eventually led to his theory of monads.\n\nLeibniz also uses his concept of a \"conatus\" in developing the principles of the integral calculus, adapting the meaning of the term, in this case, to signify a mathematical analog of Newton's accelerative \"force\". By summing an infinity of such \"conatuses\" (i.e., what is now called integration), Leibniz could measure the effect of a continuous force. He defines \"impetus\" as the result of a continuous summation of the \"conatus\" of a body, just as the \"vis viva\" (or \"living force\") is the sum of the inactive \"vis mortua\".\n\nBased on the work of Kepler and probably Descartes, Leibniz develops a model of planetary motion based on the \"conatus\" principle, the idea of aether and a fluid vortex. This theory is expounded in the work \"Tentamen de motuum coelestium causis\" (1689). According to Leibniz, Kepler's analysis of elliptical orbits into a circular and a radial component can be explained by a \"harmonic vortex\" for the circular motion combined with a centrifugal force and gravity, both of which are examples of \"conatus\", to account for the radial motion. Leibniz later defines the term \"monadic conatus\", as the \"state of change\" through which his monads perpetually advance.\n\nSeveral other uses of the term \"conatus\", apart from the primary ones mentioned above, have been formulated by various philosophers over the centuries. There are also some important related terms and concepts which have, more or less, similar meanings and usages. Giambattista Vico (1668–1744) defined \"conatus\" as the essence of human society, and also, in a more traditional, hylozoistic sense, as the generating power of movement which pervades all of nature. Nearly a century after the beginnings of modern science, Vico, inspired by Neoplatonism, explicitly rejected the principle of inertia and the laws of motion of the new physics. For him, nature was composed neither of atoms, as in the dominant view, nor of extension, as in Descartes, but of \"metaphysical points\" animated by a \"conatus\" principle provoked by God.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer (1788–1860) developed a philosophy that contains a principle notably similar to that of Hobbes's \"conatus\". This principle, \"Wille zum Leben\", or \"Will to Live\", described the specific phenomenon of an organism's self-preservation instinct. Schopenhauer qualified this, however, by suggesting that the Will to Live is not limited in duration. Rather, \"the will wills absolutely and for all time\", across generations. Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900), an early disciple of Schopenhauer, developed a separate principle which comes out of a rejection of the primacy of Schopenhauer's Will to Live and other notions of self-preservation. He called his version the Will to Power, or \"Wille zur Macht\". \n\nSigmund Freud (1856–1939), greatly depended on Spinoza's formulation of the \"conatus\" principle as a system of self-preservation, though he never cited him directly in any of his published works. Around the same time, Henri Bergson (1859–1941), developed the principle of the \"élan vital\", or \"vital impulse\", which was thought to aid in the evolution of organisms. This concept, which implies a fundamental driving force behind all life, is reminiscent of the \"conatus\" principle of Spinoza and others.\n\nFor Max Scheler, the concept of \"Drang\" is the centerpiece of philosophical anthropology and metaphysics. Though his concept has been important throughout his entire philosophical career, it was only developed later in his life when his focus shifted from phenomenology to metaphysics. Like Bergson's \"élan vital,\" \"Drang\" (drive or impulsion) is the impetus of all life; however, unlike in Bergson's vitalistic metaphysics, the significance of Drang is that it provides the motivation and driving force even of Spirit (\"Geist\"). Spirit, which includes all theoretical intentionality, is powerless without the movement of \"Drang\", the material principle, as well as \"Eros\", the psychological principle.\n\nThe cultural anthropologist Louis Dumont (1911–1988), described a \"cultural conatus\" built directly upon Spinoza's seminal definition in IIIP3 of his \"Ethics\". The principle behind this derivative concept states that any given culture, \"tends to persevere in its being, whether by dominating other cultures or by struggling against their domination\".\nAfter the advent of Newtonian physics, the concept of a \"conatus\" of all physical bodies was largely superseded by the principle of inertia and conservation of momentum. As Bidney states, \"It is true that logically desire or the \"conatus\" is merely a principle of inertia ... the fact remains, however, that this is not Spinoza's usage.\" Likewise, \"conatus\" was used by many philosophers to describe other concepts which have slowly been made obsolete. \"Conatus recendendi\", for instance, became the centrifugal force, and gravity is used where \"conatus a centro\" had been previously. Today, the topics with which \"conatus\" dealt are matters of science and are thus subject to inquiry by the scientific method.\n\nThe archaic concept of \"conatus\" is today being reconciled with modern biology by scientists such as Antonio Damasio. The \"conatus\" of today, however, is explained in terms of chemistry and neurology where, before, it was a matter of metaphysics and theurgy. This concept may be \"constructed so as to maintain the coherence of a living organism's structures and functions against numerous life-threatening odds\". \n\nThe Spinozistic conception of a \"conatus\" was a historical precursor to modern theories of autopoiesis in biological systems. In systems theory and the sciences in general, the concept of a \"conatus\" may be related to the phenomenon of emergence, whereby complex systems may spontaneously form from multiple simpler structures. The self-regulating and self-maintaining properties of biological and even social systems may thus be considered modern versions of Spinoza's \"conatus\" principle; however, the scope of the idea is definitely narrower today without the religious implications of the earlier variety.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20632317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20632317", "title": "Dimitrie Cozacovici", "text": "Dimitrie Cozacovici\n\nDimitrie Cozacovici (1790, Metsovo (today Greece) - 31 August 1868, Bucharest) was a Romanian historian. He was one of the founding members of the Romanian Academy.\n"}
{"id": "24724833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24724833", "title": "Domnei", "text": "Domnei\n\nDomnei or donnoi is an Old Provençal term meaning the attitude of chivalrous devotion of a knight to his Lady, which was mainly a non-physical and non-marital relationship.\n\nThis type of relationship was highly ritualized and complex but was generally considered to be non-physical. In discussing the history of Provençal Poetry (Occitan literature), Claude Charles Fauriel asserts: \"He who wants to fully possess his lady knows nothing of 'donnoi'.\" Guilhem de Montanhagol (1233–1268), a Provençal troubadour, declared: \"E d'amor mou castitaz\", or, \"From love comes chastity\".\n\nThe chevalier's devotion to his lady functioned by his servitude to her both in terms of his code of conduct and courtly duties. Chivalry as a code, as indicated by the concepts of courtly love and the quality of Domnei, necessitated in theory as in practice a level of devotion to the lady, or high mistress, that went beyond mere professionalism and graciousness in etiquette. Truth and honesty were core virtues, and therefore, a knight's actions were to stem from honorable intentions, sincere motives, and purity of heart. Therefore, in matters of the heart, courtly love wasn't always plausibly separable or indistinguishable from romantic love.\n\nHowever, by Eros, by Cupid's arrow, the object of a knight's affections may have resided elsewhere outside of his formal duties to his lady. In some instances, the lady was chosen, as in assigned to a knight by happenstance, whereby direct interaction may have been unlikely. As a \"princesse lointaine\", she may have lived in a far away castle by which the chevalier could never, and would never have the chance to know her. Despite the confines of romantic impossibility, obligations of courtly love and Domnei were to persevere out of a chivalrous sense of loyalty and devotion for a knight to his lady. Realities as they were, such as unrequited love as an example, often provided the basis for contributing to many tales of love and legend in Medieval Literature and Medieval poetry.\n\nIn modern times, the term \"Domnei\" is especially known for its usage in the title and plot of \"\", a 1913 fantasy novel by James Branch Cabell, which is set in the imaginary French province of Poictesme during the second half of the thirteenth century.\n\nIn Paul Gallico's novel \"Adventures of Hiram Holliday\" the protagonist is a twentieth century American consciously seeking to model himself on the Medieval knights of romantic literature and to live by the Code of Chivalry in modern society. Domnei-style woman-worship is offered to an exiled Habsburg princess who he saves from Nazi agents and with whom he falls in love.\n\n"}
{"id": "56353194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56353194", "title": "Eduard Frolov", "text": "Eduard Frolov\n\nEduard Davidovich Frolov (; 1 March 1933 – death published on 19 August 2018) was a Russian historian, Doctor of Sciences (Dsc), Honorary Professor at the Saint Petersburg State University since 2010, and Director of the Center for Classics Studies at the same University since 1994, Honored Scientist of the Russian Federation (1998). He was also Honorary Worker of Higher Professional Education the Russian Federation (2004).\n\nFrolov graduated from the Saint Petersburg State University in 1955. In 1958 he defended his Candidate's Dissertation. In 1972, he defended his doctoral dissertation. In 1974 he received the title of Professor.\n\nFrom 1971 to 2015, Frolov headed the Department of History of Ancient Greece and Rome at the Saint Petersburg State University.\n\nFrolov was a member of the Editorial Board for \"Journal of Ancient History\".\n\nProfessor Frolov is the author more than 300 scientific works, including 15 monographs.\n\n"}
{"id": "45687330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45687330", "title": "Erambie Mission", "text": "Erambie Mission\n\nErambie Mission is an Aboriginal community located on the western banks of the Lachlan River, 2.5 kilometres (1.5 miles) from the town of Cowra, in the Central West region of New South Wales, Australia.\n\nThe mission is laid out along three streets in a grid of tightly packed houses, but it contains no shops or library. It became home for most of the 700 Aboriginal people in the Cowra area. Residents had to obey many rules and regulations, and as far back as the 1940s the mission had a reputation for Aboriginal protests, and for its residents standing up for their rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "53594562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53594562", "title": "Fazlallah Khunji Isfahani", "text": "Fazlallah Khunji Isfahani\n\nKhwaja Afzal al-Din Fazl Allah b. Jamal al-Din Ruzbihan b. Fazl Allah b. Muhammad Khunji Isfahani (; 1455-1521), better known as Fazlallah Khunji Isfahani (), was a Persian religious scholar, historian and political writer. He was born in Shiraz. In 1487, he left Shiraz for the third time for a Hajj. He met Sultan Ya'qub of Aq Qoyunlu near the Sahand mountain and agreed to write the history of Aq Qoyunlu dynasty. When the Safavid shah Ismail I started the Shi'ification of Persia and the persecution of Sunni Muslims, he fled to Transoxiana and settled in the city of Kazan. He lived the rest of his life in Transoxiana under the patronage of Timurids and Shaybanids. Modern scholars praise him for his neutrality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32341990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32341990", "title": "Frank Dikötter", "text": "Frank Dikötter\n\nFrank Dikötter (; ) is a Dutch historian who specialises in modern China. \n\nDikötter is best known as the author of \"Mao's Great Famine\", which won the 2011 Samuel Johnson Prize. Dikötter is chair professor of humanities at the University of Hong Kong, where he teaches courses on both Mao Zedong and the Great Chinese Famine. He was formerly a professor of the modern history of China from the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London.\n\nPankaj Mishra has described Dikötter's work as \"boldly and engagingly revisionist\". This led to a public dispute between Dikötter and Mishra.\n\nDikötter asserted the impact of the prohibition of opium on the Chinese people led to greater harm than the effects of the drug itself in \"Narcotic Culture\" and \"Patient Zero\". These works have been poorly received by academics, with Chinese historian Kathleen L. Lodwick saying \"Narcotic Culture\" appears to be one of the revisionist histories of which there have been several lately that have aimed at convincing us that imperialism wasn't all that bad, or at least that we should not blame the imperialists, in this case the opium traders who made vast fortunes from the trade, for the social problems they created. Closer attention to accuracy in the bibliography would have caught some errors, which appear more than once and so are not simply typos. He called for the rehabilitation of the history of Republican China between 1912 and 1949 in \"The Age of Openness\". His most recent books \"Mao's Great Famine\" and \"The Tragedy of Liberation\" deal with the early years of the People's Republic of China and specifically the terror and famine associated with it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293616", "title": "George Dyson (science historian)", "text": "George Dyson (science historian)\n\nGeorge Dyson (born 26 March 1953) is an American-Canadian non-fiction author and historian of technology whose publications broadly cover the evolution of technology in relation to the physical environment and the direction of society. He has written on a wide range of topics, including the history of computing, the development of algorithms and intelligence, communication systems, space exploration, and the design of water craft.\n\nLecturing widely at academic institutions, corporations, and tech conferences, Dyson gives a historical context to the evolution of technology in modern society and provides thought-provoking ideas on the directions in which technology and the Internet might develop.\n\nGeorge Dyson is the son of the theoretical physicist Freeman Dyson and mathematician Verena Huber-Dyson, the brother of technology analyst Esther Dyson, and the grandson of the British composer Sir George Dyson. Dyson's early life is described in Kenneth Brower's book \"The Starship and the Canoe.\" When he was sixteen he went to live in British Columbia to pursue his interest in kayaking.\n\nFrom 1972–75, he lived in a treehouse at a height of 30 metres that he built from salvaged materials on the shore of Burrard Inlet. Dyson became a Canadian citizen and spent 20 years in British Columbia, designing kayaks, researching historic voyages and native peoples, and exploring the Inside Passage. He was, during this period, estranged from his father for some time.\n\nDyson's first book, \"Baidarka\", published in 1986, described his research on the history of the Aleut kayak, its evolution in the hands of Russian fur traders, and his adaptation of its design to modern materials. He is the author of \"Project Orion: The Atomic Spaceship 1957–1965\" and \"Darwin Among the Machines: The Evolution of Global Intelligence\", in which he expands upon the premise of Samuel Butler's 1863 article of the same name and suggests that the Internet is a living, sentient being. His 2012 book \"Turing's Cathedral\" has been described as \"a creation myth of the digital universe.\" It was a finalist for the Los Angeles Times 2012 Book Prize in the science and technology category and was chosen by University of California Berkeley's annual \"On the Same Page\" program for the academic year 2013–14.\n\nDyson is the founder/owner of Dyson, Baidarka & Company, a designer of Aleut-style skin kayaks; he is credited with the revival of the baidarka style of kayak.\n\nDyson was a visiting lecturer and research associate at Western Washington University's Fairhaven College and was Director's Visitor at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, in 2002–03. He is a frequent contributor to the Edge Foundation.\n\nHe lives and works in Bellingham, Washington and is the father of Lauren Dyson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5018404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5018404", "title": "Giuli Alasania", "text": "Giuli Alasania\n\nGiuli Alasania (born November 11, 1946 in Tbilisi) is a Georgian historian and public figure. She graduated from the Faculty of Oriental Studies of the Tbilisi State University (1969) and in 1973 received a Ph.D. degree in History. In 1987 she received a degree of a Doctor of Historical Sciences. \n\nShe is the mother of the third president of Georgia, Mikheil Saakashvili. \n\nShe has been head of the Department of Source Studies, Javakhishvili Institute of History and Ethnology (1989–2006), Professor of the Tbilisi State University (since 1990), Vice-Rector of the International Black Sea University (2000–2014), and founder and President of the University of Georgia (since 2004).\n\nResearch Manager at the American University, Transnational Crime and Corruption Center (2005–2008), fellowship at the University of Mississippi (1996), fellowship at the University of Maryland, College Park in the Center for International development and Conflict Management (1996–1996), fellowship at Central European University (CEU) (2000), facilitator of the program of the School principles (Partners in Education), organized by ACTR/ACCELS, Washington DC Bozeman (Montana) (2003).\n\nHer publications include 130 papers and 10 monographs in the fields of the source studies of history of Georgia and the Caucasus, history of the Middle East, history of Turks and Turkey, relations of Georgians and Turks, history of the Georgian culture, and national self-determination. \n\nShe is a member of the Commission on the Sources of the History of Georgia of the Presidium of the Georgian National Academy of Sciences, member of the editorial board of the international journal \"Central Asia and the Caucasus\" (Sweden); member of the board of Romulado Del Bianco Foundation.\n\nAwards: Prize for young scholars (1980), Prize for the contribution to Turkish-Studies. Turkish linguistic society (2004), “Golden wing” (2007), For the contribution to the Turkish culture (2012), I Javakhishvili prize of Georgian Academy of Sciences (2012), Medal of Del Bianco Foundation (2013).\n\nShe has organized a number of international conferences and has participated in international scientific conferences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5591744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5591744", "title": "Henry Margenau", "text": "Henry Margenau\n\nHenry Margenau (April 30, 1901 – February 8, 1997) was a German-American physicist, and philosopher of science.\n\nBorn in Bielefeld, Germany, Margenau obtained his bachelor's degree from Midland Lutheran College, Nebraska before his M.Sc. from the University of Nebraska in 1926, and PhD from Yale University in 1929.\n\nMargenau worked on the theory of microwaves and the development of duplexing systems that enabled a single radar antenna both to transmit and receive signals. He also worked on spectral line broadening, a technique used to analyse and review the dynamics of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima.\n\nMargenau wrote extensively on science, his works including: \"Ethics and Science\", \"The Nature of Physical Reality\", \"Quantum Mechanics\" and \"Integrative Principles of Modern Thought\".\n\nIn 1968, Margenau was invited to give the Wimmer Lecture at St. Vincent College in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. His topic was Scientific Indeterminism and Human Freedom. Margenau embraced indeterminism as the first step toward a solution of the problem of human freedom.\n\nThen in 1982, Margenau called his two-stage model of free will a \"solution\" to what had heretofore had been seen as mere \"paradox and illusion.\" He very neatly separates \"free\" and \"will\" in a temporal sequence, as William James had done, naming the two stages simply \"chance\" followed by \"choice.\"\n\nMargenau served on a commission of the World Council of Churches in developing an ecumenical position on nuclear weapons and atomic warfare. However, his book The \"Miracle of Existence\" (Ox Bow Press, 1984) shows Margenau's broad interests not only in Christianity, but also in Eastern religions and his fascination with finding connections among different religious and philosophical traditions.\n\nMargenau was appointed Eugene Higgins Professor of Physics and Natural Philosophy as Yale in 1950, a post he was to hold until his retirement from formal academic life in 1986. He also became a staff member at both the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton and the MIT Radiation Laboratory. During his working career, he acted as consultant to the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. National Bureau of Standards, Argonne National Laboratory, Rand Corporation, General Electric Co. and Lockheed.\n\nMargenau's work embraced investigation of intermolecular forces, spectroscopy, nuclear physics and electronics. He was also interested in parapsychology. He co-authored parapsychological papers with his friend Lawrence LeShan.\n\nHe was married to Liesel Noe and the couple parented two sons and a daughter. Margenau died in Hamden, Connecticut.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34678650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34678650", "title": "Herries Beattie", "text": "Herries Beattie\n\nJames Herries Beattie (6 June 1881 – 11 May 1972) was a New Zealand bookkeeper, journalist, historian, ethnologist and bookseller. He was born in Gore, Southland, New Zealand on 6 June 1881.\n\nJames Herries Beattie (known as Herries) was the son of Scottish immigrants James Beattie and Mary Roden (Rodden) Thomson, who arrived in Otago in 1862 and were married in 1874. After some years of farming, James Beattie opened a drapery business in Gore, where he became a well-known figure and was mayor for four terms. Herries was born in Gore on 6 June 1881. He was one of nine children, four of whom died young. The family was deeply religious, Presbyterian at first and Congregational from 1892. Herries, who served 40 years as a Sunday school teacher, later joined the Open Brethren.\n\nAlongside strong Protestant convictions, Herries Beattie had a high regard for learning. He had wide interests in literature and natural history but was not gifted academically. After two years at Southland Boys' High School, Invercargill, he left in 1896 to work in the family business as a bookkeeper. This was less from choice than from filial duty, and the tedium of the job served only to further stimulate a powerful desire – present since childhood – to write.\n\nHis earliest interests had been in local wildlife, especially birds, but as a youth he tried his hand at poetry, short stories and historical novels. The latter reflected an intense curiosity about the history of Otago and Southland. From an early age Beattie had sought out surviving pioneers of European settlement. By the age of 11 he 'was well and truly smitten with the history microbe' and had begun to keep notebooks recording the recollections of pioneer families around Gore and those of the surviving whalers and other old identities at Bluff and Riverton, many of them descendants of marriages into the Maori community.\n\nThe content and style of Beattie's work can be traced to a number of early influences. His first attempt at a historical work was a biography of his uncle, William Adam of the Taieri Plain. As a young man, Adam had formed a strong acquaintance with Maori of the Henley area, from whom he gained a detailed knowledge of traditions and ways of life. Beattie had spent holidays at Otokia with his uncle, through whom he made his first contacts in the southern Otago Maori community, and began to develop a wide-ranging and lasting interest in the traditional lifestyle and history of Ngai Tahu in southern New Zealand. Another important influence on his nascent career was the Southland pioneer W. H. S. Roberts. He assisted Beattie's 'chronicling apprenticeship' and provided a nucleus of information about the early southern runs and runholders around which Beattie constructed later publications. His interests in placenames, and his style of writing about them, can also be traced to Roberts's Maori nomenclature.\n\nBeattie was familiar with the archive-based regional histories of his time, such as T. M. Hocken's Contributions to the early history of New Zealand (Otago), and Robert McNab's Murihiku; but lacking academic training, and with opportunities for collecting first-hand accounts all about him, his writings were based upon interviews, buttressed with information from family notes, genealogies, and newspaper articles amongst more orthodox sources. From such material Beattie developed his own eclectic, anecdotal style. His first publication, in 1898, was a short history of Gore for the Southern Standard, but his earliest major work was a two-part history of early settlers, Pioneer recollections (1909, 1911). Next came his detailed account of southern Maori traditions, history and placenames, based in part on Maori interviews, which was published in the Journal of the Polynesian Society between 1915 and 1922.\n\nAs this work began to bring him to the notice of professional ethnologists, Beattie sought ways of developing a career closer to his intellectual interests. He first attempted to become a schoolteacher, but failed the examination, then in 1916 he accepted a substantial drop in salary to become a journalist with the Mataura Ensign. By 1919 his publishing success, and the acceptance of papers for the Transactions and Proceedings of the New Zealand Institute, persuaded H. D. Skinner at the Otago University Museum to fund a year-long ethnological survey of southern Maori communities. This was carried out in 1920, and it set the pattern for most of Beattie's subsequent work.\n\nOn a salary of £5 per week, Beattie travelled by train and bicycle to isolated Maori communities. He gave small presents out of courtesy but did not pay for interviews. As a young man he had relied on his memory to write up conversations, but now he prepared written questions in advance, beginning with 65 and ending up with about a thousand. These were worked through patiently with his informants, who were often 70 to 80 years old; the interviews sometimes took many days to complete. Beattie had a working knowledge of Maori, but no facility in speaking it, so his interviews were conducted in English, though usually with a younger member of the informant's family to translate as needed. His most important contacts were Hone (Teone) Taare Tikao at Rapaki and Eruete Kingi Kurupohatu at Kaka Point, but others who provided much of his information during more than 60 years of periodic fieldwork were Tiemi Haereroa Kupa, Erute Poko Cameron, Taare Reweti Te Maiharoa and Tuhituhi Te Marama.\n\nBeattie held the Maori elders in high regard (less so the younger generation), and he seems to have been received well on most occasions. Some clearly regarded him as offering the last chance to preserve substantial areas of traditional knowledge that they thought were not properly appreciated by their descendants. His survey in 1920 was incomplete, however, because he gained little from people who had lived at Otakou and Kaiapoi and he lacked the time and resources to go far beyond Christchurch from his base at Weston, near Oamaru. He also obtained only limited material on Westland and districts to the north. Nevertheless, the 1920 ethnological project was the major achievement of his career. It produced more than 1,000 closely written pages of information; failing to get this published at the time, Beattie mined it extensively for his subsequent books. It was published in 1994 as Traditional lifeways of the southern Maori.\n\nIn 1921 Beattie was employed as librarian and ethnologist at the New Plymouth Public Library. He had married Mary McKenzie at Gore on 25 May 1910, and concerns about his wife's health brought him south again, to purchase a bookshop in Waimate. He ran that business until 1939, the earliest he could get an acceptable price for it after the depression, but remained in Waimate and, at the age of 59, was finally able to devote himself fully to writing and publication. Besides smaller works and pamphlets aimed at the tourist market, Beattie produced many works of lasting importance. By the end of his career his prolific writing had produced 27 books, of which 12 were on the Pakeha pioneers and 10 on Maori. These included Tikao talks (1939), Maori lore of lake, alp and fiord (1945), and Our southernmost Maoris (1954). The remaining five were on scenic and tourist attractions.\n\nThese works reveal the strengths and weaknesses of Beattie's approach. He systematically interviewed Maori elders and Pakeha pioneers, and constructed from their recollections detailed accounts of history and ways of life that greatly amplify, and occasionally challenge, other accounts. Yet, in the case of Maori especially, it is not always obvious to which informant material should be attributed, and his original notebooks were not preserved. Beattie used the widest range of material and showed explicitly how his arguments and conclusions were revised as new evidence came to hand, but he did not discriminate between sources of varying quality. His major works retain the scrapbook nature of their origins and are written in a colloquial style. In their time, they were regarded with suspicion by academic historians and anthropologists who preferred the more conventional publications on Maori by Elsdon Best, and this served to reinforce a perception of northern Maori traditions and customs as the New Zealand standard.\n\nWith the recent acceptance attained by oral history and a resurgence of interest in the distinctiveness of southern Maori, Beattie's research has achieved a more general esteem. In his collection of original material from oral sources in the South Island, he can be compared with Edward Shortland and Walter Mantell, but otherwise has no peer. In 1941 Beattie was awarded the Percy Smith Prize for achievements in anthropology, and in 1967 was made an MBE in recognition of his historical research and writing.\n\nHerries Beattie died at Timaru on 11 May 1972. Mary Beattie had died in 1944, and a son also predeceased him. He was survived by three daughters.\n"}
{"id": "9801646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9801646", "title": "Hongjun Laozu", "text": "Hongjun Laozu\n\nHongjun Laozu () lit. \"Ancestor of the Great Balance\" is a deity in Chinese folk religion and Taoism, patriarch of the Three Pure Ones in Taoist mythology. \"Hongjun\" 鴻鈞 is a graphic variant of \"hungjun\" () \"primordial nature\", as used in the Chinese idiom \"Xian you hongjun hou you tian\" 先有鸿钧后有天 \"First there was Nature and then there was Heaven\".\n\nDaoists mythologize Hongjun Laozu as the ancestor of \"xian\" \"trancendents; immortals\" (Werner 1922:133-134) and use the honorific name Hongyuan Laozu () \"Great Primal Ancestor\". In Chinese creation myths, \"hongyuan\" 鸿元 or 洪元 is a cosmological term for \"the universe before the separation of heaven and earth\".\n\nSome myths about the creator Pangu (Werner 1922:128-130) refer to Hongjun Laozu as Xuanxuan Shangren () \"Mystery of Mysteries Saint\" (a reference to the \"Daodejing\" 1, tr. Mair 1990:59, \"Mystery or mysteries, the gate of all wonders!\").\n\nHongjun Laozu was the monk who is told about in the myth of Chinese New Year. He was the person who captured Nian, the great beast that terrorised the people of China every Chinese New Year.\n\nEvery Chinese New Year was a time of suffering and fear for the people of China because of Nian, the great beast. One Chinese New Year's Eve, the monk, Hongjun Laozu, came to a village in China. He saw how everyone looked sad and frightened, so he went to a young man and said \"Why are you so sad? It is Chinese New Year, a time for celebration.\" The man replied \"Do you not know? Have you not heard about Nian? He comes every New Year and terrorises us, even eats us.\" The monk said \"I will go and reason with Nian.\" So off he went, to find Nian.\n\nWhen Hongjun Laozu came to Nian, he said \"Nian, I have come to reason with you. Stop eating and terrorising the people of China.\" But Nian Said \"Haha. You have delivered yourself to me, old man, so now I will eat you.\" The man replied, \"Oh, but what will that prove? Eating me isn't great! Would you dare to eat the poisonous snakes on the mountains?\" \"Bah! What's so difficult about that?\" So Nian went to the poisonous snakes and ate them up. \"How is this? Am I not great?\" \"At the back of the mountain there are many great beasts. Can you subdue them?\" So Nian went and scared all of the dangerous beasts out of the back of the mountain.\n\n\"Old man, now its time for me to eat you!\" \"Sure, but just wait while I take my clothes off, I will taste much better then\". So the old man took his clothes off to reveal his undergarments, which were red. \"OK, you can eat me now.\" But Nian said \"Ah! a red undergarment! I dearly hate red, get out of my sight quickly.\" \"Haha! I knew you were afraid of red!\" The old man went into the town on top of Nian and said \"Dear villagers, do not be afraid. Nian is most terrified of red. From now on each house must paste red on each of their doors to prevent Nian creating havoc.\"\n\nAfter that, the people started to paste red paper on their front doors before New Year's Day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17835624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17835624", "title": "Honoré Daumet", "text": "Honoré Daumet\n\nPierre Jérôme Honoré Daumet (23 October 1826, Paris – 12 December 1911, Paris) was a French architect.\n\nDaumet was the winner of the Prix de Rome in 1855, and in 1861 conducted a treasure-hunting expedition to Macedonia at the request of Napoleon III, accompanying the archaeologist Léon Heuzey. On his return he married the daughter of architect Charles-Auguste Questel.\n\nDaumet founded his own atelier which would produce nine further Grand Prix winners, Charles-Louis Girault chief among them, and attracted a number of foreign students such as Charles McKim and Austin W. Lord. \n\nIn 1908 Daumet won the Royal Gold Medal of the Royal Institute of British Architects.\n\nMajor work includes: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10598220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10598220", "title": "Ignacio Bernal", "text": "Ignacio Bernal\n\nIgnacio Bernal (February 13, 1910 in Paris - January 24, 1992 in Mexico City) was an eminent Mexican anthropologist and archaeologist.\n\nBernal excavated much of Monte Albán, originally starting as a student of Alfonso Caso, and later led major archeological projects at Teotihuacan. In 1965 he excavated Dainzú. He was the director of Mexico's National Museum of Anthropology 1962-68 and again 1970-77. In 1965, he was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Bernal was awarded the Premio Nacional in 1969. He was a founding member of the Third World Academy of Sciences in 1983.\n\nIgnacio Bernal is the son of Rafael and Rafaela (Garcia Pimentel) Bernal. Bernal married Sofia Verea on October 14, 1944 and had four children: Ignacio, Rafaela, Carlos, and Concepcion. He received his M.A. from the Escuela Nacional de Antropologia, Mexico in 1946 and his Ph.D. from the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico in 1949.\n\nBernal's many publications include:\n\n\n\nand\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7471189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7471189", "title": "Insurgency in the Preševo Valley", "text": "Insurgency in the Preševo Valley\n\nThe Insurgency in the Preševo Valley was an armed conflict between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the ethnic Albanian separatists of the Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac (UÇPMB). There were instances during the conflict in which the Yugoslav government requested KFOR support in suppressing UÇPMB attacks since they could only use lightly armed military forces as part of the Kumanovo Treaty that ended the Kosovo War, which created a buffer zone so that the bulk of Yugoslav armed forces could not enter.\n\nBefore the insurgency Preševo Valley was home to approximately 100,000 people, of whom 70,000 were Albanians and another 30,000 Serbs. Albanians make up to 95% of Preševo, 40% of Bujanovac and 10% of Medveđa population. The region is sometimes referred to as Eastern Kosovo by Albanians.\nThe Albanian-populated region became a part of Serbia in 1913, after First Balkan War\n\nFrom 1945 to 1946 Preševo and Bujanovac were a part of newly established Autonomous Oblast of Kosovo and Metohija inside Federal State of Serbia. In 1946 they were transferred to Central Serbia in exchange for a part of Serb inhabited modern-day North Kosovo. During the breakup of Yugoslavia, on 1 and 2 March 1992 Albanians from Preševo Valley held the referendum about their future status in Serbia. The majority, 97% of voters demanded autonomy for the valley and the right to join Republic of Kosova. Serbian government rejected the referendum as anti-constitutional and illegal.\n\nThe Kosovo War was a parallel conflict between the Yugoslav Army and the Kosovo Liberation Army. It began in February 1998 and ended on 10 June 1999 when the Kumanovo Treaty was signed. According to the treaty, KFOR troops, supervised by the United Nations, would enter as a peacekeeping force, while Yugoslav military forces were to withdraw. It was agreed that the KLA would disband by 19 September 1999. According to the agreement there will be demilitarized zone around Kosovo. Serbs could only use police squads with up to 10 members. This buffer zone was used by Albanian guerrillas for attacks against Serbian forces. The Preševo valley conflict erupted in June 1999.\n\nAfter Kumanovo Agreement was signed, 5 km (3 mil) deep demilitarized zone was established along Kosovo border. Length of the zone was 382 km along Serbian border. The purpose of this buffer was to prevent incidents between KFOR troops and Yugoslav army. At the same time Air Safety Zone was set up. It's width was 20 km. Only lightly armed police force of up to ten members was allowed to patrol, so keeping order in this area was very hard. It was prohibited for Serbs to use planes, tanks or any other heavier weapons. GSZ became the heaven for drug trade and operations against Serb forces. Zone consisted of following sectors:\n\n\nLiberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac members were first seen during funeral of brothers Shaqipi who were killed by the police in January 2000 in Dobrosin. They had around 1,600 active fighters and around 5,000 non-active. The Yugoslav government considered it a terrorist organization. Organization consisted of three zones. First was South zone commanded by Shaqir Shaqiri. After he was arrested in 2001, he was replaced by Mustafa Shaqiri. They had between 300-500 fighters. Center zone was commanded by Ridvan Qazimi, known as \"Captain Lleshi\", who had around 600 rebels. Lleshi was later killed in clashes near Oraovica. This zone was around Gjilan-Bujanovac regional road. In the north there was so called Čar group, or North zone lead by Muhamet Xhemajli. Highest commander was Shefket Musliu auto mechanic from Končulj. Rebels mostly had mine throwers and other light weapons. Those weapons were transported illegally from Kosovo throughout border with Serbia. The biggest Albanian village in Serbia, Veliki Trnovac, was the rebel center. According to Serbian Security Intelligence Agency it was full of bunkers, as well as laboratories and storehouses for heroin. PMBLA was operating in following villages:\n\n\nRebels were controlling all villages in GSZ sector B and C east except Cerevajka and Gramada.\n\nAfter Kosovo Liberation Army disbanded according to the peace agreement that ended Kosovo War, its veterans and members founded Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac in a village of Dobrosin. Their goal was secession of three Albanian populated municipalities from Serbia and their annexation to Kosovo. Fighting between police and separatist began in June 1999 in municipality of Kuršumlija, and later spread to Medveđa, Bujanovac and Preševo. The UÇPMB established many bases in mountains and plains around towns of Bujanovac and Preševo. Main center of militants was a village of Veliki Trnovac. Because of restricted movement in that area, police and army were unable to stop them. On 21 November two policeman were killed by land mine. Serbs responded on attacks with more checkpoints and patrols. During 1999 rebels didn’t enter a open conflict with the police. Instead they battled them with the mortars from the distance, so Serbs were unable to respond.\n\nConflict escalated in 2000. On 16 January three Serbs civilians from village Pasjane were killed by rebels in a Ground Safety Zone on a road Gjilan - Preševo. After overthrow of Slobodan Milošević, new government requested form NATO and KFOR to suspend demilitarized zone around Kosovo, in fear that a new war could erupt. Vojislav Koštunica wanted from USA to reduce or disband the zone. During November 2000, some of Serb police retreated from demilitarized zone after four policemen were kidnapped and killed and another two wounded. That gave chance to Albanians to take all villages Serbs have left. After this events, Božo Prelević, one of Serbia's three interior ministers, said Serbian police would return to the zone \"with all available means\" unless the attacks end.On 24 November KFOR-mediated ceasefire was agreed.\n\nDuring 5 February the fiercest fighting in the Preševo valley happened since the end of the 1999 Kosovo conflict. The Yugoslav army exchanged artillery fire for several hours across the internationally-imposed buffer zone next to the border with Kosovo.On 16 February near the border town of Podujevo 7 Serb civilians were killed after Niš-Ekspres bus with refugees from Kosovo was blown up by PMBLA. After that, on 7 March 2001, KFOR agreed to allow Serb military to reoccupy buffer zone (called \"Ground Safety Zone\") section by section. At the same time Albanian guerrillas started mutiny in Republic of Macedonia. During the March one-week ceasefire was agreed again, after four policeman were killed. Army first entered the section on a border with FYR Macedonia (section C East), in order to stop illegal arms smuggling. Afterwards KFOR allowed Serbs to return to zones C West and A on 25 March, and zone D on 14 April. On 21 May Albanian commanders signed Končulj agreement and agreed to disarm, but many continued to fight. Last section was around Preševo (sector B). On 24 May Serbian army entered the town, although Albanian fighters were attacking them. There, one of the rebel commanders, Ridvan Qazimi \"Lleshi\" was killed. It's not clear whether he was killed by police or by other insurgents. After Serb victory UÇPMB agreed to disarm. Some of its veterans joined newly formed National Liberation Army in Republic of Macedonia. Around 400 guerrillas surrendered in order to get the pardon from the Yugoslav government. PMBLA chief Shefket Musliu surrendered to KFOR on 26 May. Until August 2001 there were around 1,160 attacks on Serb police and civilians.\nIn July 2000 PMBLA launched an offensive in order to take the town of Bujanovac. The battle was conducted in the areas of Končulj, Dobrosin, Lučane and Devojačka Čuka as well as in the wider area around Mali Trnovac, Muhovac and Đorđevac. The PMBLA clashes with the Serbian security forces began in July 2000 and were aimed at conquering the communication Bujanovac-Gjilan and taking over the villages of the municipality of Bujanovac. The fighting was intensified in November 2000, when the police, under the influence of a threefold strength of the PMBLA, withdrew from the security checkpoints that were fought, occupying defensive positions closer to Bujanovac. The fighting broke into a pat-position at the end of November 2000 after the arrival of the JSO as well as military and police reinforcements to the south of Serbia. The conflicts were of low intensity, and were mainly reduced to occasional rebel attacks where the police only responded when the lives of its members were endangered. The offensive PMBLA in the battle near Bujanovac started on 21 November 2000, after two days of provocations and strong attacks on the positions of the police. That day, about 500 guerrillas, who were incomparably better armed than the police, were unhindered from Kosovo to the municipality of Bujanovac, and in addition to the presence of strong forces of the American KFOR contingent with the administrative line of Serbia and Kosovo.\n\nIn the period from 12.25 to 17.00 hours on 21 November, Albanians committed synchronized attacks on the Dobrosin security checkpoint, and on the positions of the police on the corners of Devojačka Čuka and Osoje.\n\nAt 12.25, 12.55 and 15.30, attacks on the Dobrosin puncture were made from mortars, automatic and sniper weapons and machine guns, when Gropi's observatory was hit on two occasions with more than 5 mines.\n\nAt 12.48 pm, an attack from mortars, infantry weapons, machine guns and brownies was carried out to local police positions at the Devojačka Čuka Corner, and at 13.30 hours the terrorists were also operating at the corner of Osoje with a fire from a mortar.\n\nDue to strong actions, members of the Special Police Units from Gornji Milanovac were forced to withdraw from the communication Konculj - Lucane - Bujanovac, along the width of the road. Police withdrawal was hampered and slowed due to lack of knowledge of the terrain. During the withdrawal, a fierce infantry attack by Albanian rebels from the wider region of Tuštica and Visoko was followed when the observation post on the Gropi hill was occupied. In this attack, rebels captured three members of the MUP. They were taken to their camp in the territory of Kosovo where they were tormented by the religious leaders and eventually liquidated.\n\nAround 17.00 hours the withdrawal of the people from the crisis zones was terminated because it was found that at the Dobrosin point there was a mortar of 60 millimeter, a sniper and automatic rifle, two combat ammunition kits, 6 inductor phones and more. Rebels then carry out another attack on the police patrol in Dobrosin. After this attack, police officers were withdrawn from the Municipality of Bujanovac in order to prevent further conflicts and reorganize police units. Thus, the rebels occupied the area around Dobrosin, Lucana, Konculja, Mali Trnovac and Breznica, as well as 4 police stations.\n\nAfter the end of these conflicts, at night 21-22. In November, besides members of the American contingent of KFOR, about 1,000 rebels had been armed to their teeth, and entered the wider Bujanovac area. Among them were Albanians from Western European countries, from Albania and Kosovo, and the mujahedin from the Middle East. They immediately carried out the forced mobilization of Albanian military capable men over the age of 18. They took private vehicles and sent it all to the first combat ranks.\n\nAfter establishing themselves, the following day they continued with armed attacks. In the period from 11.15 to 12.05 and from 12.30 to 15.30 on 22 November, from the direction of the villages of Dobrosin and Končulj, Albanian rebels carried out attacks from automatic weapons and mortars to the police in the village of Lučane. Later, in the period between 21.45 and 23.15 hours, the rebels carried out attacks on the police in the village of Djordjevac from mortars, hand grenades (fired 20-30 mines) and infantry weapons. The next day, on 23 November, around 10:00 am, Albanian terrorists carried out an attack with 5 mines from mortars and brownies to the police patrol in the village of Djordjevac.\n\nIn response to these conflicts, the FRY demanded an urgent session of the UN Security Council to condemn the attacks. FRY President Vojislav Koštunica wrote to NATO Secretary General George Robertson with the expectation that KFOR will no longer allow incursions to southern Serbia and similar incidents. At its headquarters in Brussels, NATO emphasized that it opposed the PMBLA's downfall, while KFOR on the other announced that it would not tolerate the possible effects of the VJ in the Ground Safety Zone.\n\nKFOR kept all the roads leading to Dobrosin, the village where the terrorists were concentrated, were blocked. During this blockade, on one track, a truck driver was arrested who tried to smuggle weapons and ammunition for terrorists through the US checkpoint. In the fireplace were mortars, anti-personnel mines, machine guns and 5,000 bullets. Searching terrain KFOR found a 62 mm mortar, 16 mortar shells, one hand grenade, one automatic rifle with 2200 bullets and 25 bullets for a pistol. This hidden weapon belonged to rebels who carried out attacks from the territory of Kosovo without crossing the administrative line. There were also 10 unarmed rebels in black uniforms who tried to illegally enter the south of Serbia.\n\nIn February 2001, Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia and Head of Coordination Center for Southern Serbia Nebojša Čović proposed the plan for resolving the crisis in Preševo Valley. The plan calls for joint police forces of local ethnic Albanians and Serbs, in proportion to the ethnic groups' populations in the area. The proposal calls for integrating the valley's ethnic Albanian population into mainstream Serbian political and social life. It also offers civil rights guarantees and promises of economic development. The plan doesn't provide autonomy for the region or possible annexation to Kosovo. Instead it's providing decentralization to local authorities. The plan also calls for demilitarization of the Preševo Valley and disbandment of PMBLA. All rebel controlled areas should be returned to Serbia. Every rebel that surrenders will be promised a pardon from the Yugoslav government. The plan was accepted, and Albanians signed the demilitarization agreement in a village of Končulj.\n\nAt 6.30 am on March 14, 2001, the return of the United Security Forces to the GSZ, Sector C (East Charlie), from the outer line of this zone, started. The Yugoslav forces were deployed west, from the Preševo-Miratovac line, in three directions: towards the villages of Miratovac, Norča and Trnava. Lieutenant-General Lieutenant-General Ninoslav Krstić was led by Lieutenant-General Lieutenant-Colonel Ninoslav Krstic. The Chief of the General Staff of the VJ, Lieutenant-General Nebojsa Pavković, Commander of the Third Army, Lieutenant General Vladimir Lazarević, Commander of the Priština Corps Major General Radojko Stefanović, General Obrad Stevanović and several other Yugoslav Army officers. The return operation was followed by the President of the FRY Coordination Body for South Serbia Nebojša Čović and members of the Coordination Body Mica Markovic and Milovan Čogurić. Entering sector C, on the triple border of Serbia, Macedonia and Kosovo, it was free of incidents. Already at 07.20, Nebojša Pavković told FRY President Vojislav Koštunica that the operation is taking place successfully. There were no land mines on the ground, nor did they see armed groups of Albanian terrorists. In the sky above Macedonia, several Cobra KFOR helicopters were observed that supervised the operation. In Sector C - East, the first units that entered were engineering units that were tasked with examining the whole field and eliminating the danger of the set mines. Soon, simultaneously with them, other members of the Army entered the zone led by General Pavković and other commanders. When Pavković entered the part of the C sector, Lieutenant Colonel David Olvein, a military attaché of the US Embassy, was watching events with extreme care, but at the same time he was very surprised when he received information that the planned time of 10 hours, ended up taking positions in just 2 hours.\n\nAfter entering the eastern part of sector C, on March 22, 2001, the KFOR command led by General Kabigoszu, in a meeting with Yugoslav representatives in Merdare, approved the entry of the Yugoslav Army into the western part of Sector C (along the border of Montenegro and Kosovo) and sector A (to the border line with the municipality of Medveđa). The return to these parts of the GSZ, carried out by the Second Army of the YA, started at 07:00 on March 25th. According to Colonel Radosav Mihailović, the on-site operation, the operation was carried out without incidents and according to the foreseen plan, followed by members of the Coordination Body, KFOR representatives as well as EU observers. This operation restored the state sovereignty of the FRY over the border belt of municipalities: Plav, Berane, Rožaje, Tutin, Novi Pazar, Raška, Brus and Kuršumlija. The total length of the western part of Sector C and Sector A was 263 km, and the width was 5 km, that is, in total, about 1300 km².\n\nThe preparations of the Yugoslav Army to enter Sector D of the Ground Security Zone (the border region of Medveđa municipality) began after the meeting of General Ninoslav Krstić with the representative of KFOR in Merdare near Kuršumlija on April 2, 2001. The agreement on entry into sector D was signed in Merdare on April 12 by Ninoslav Krstić and Nebojša Čović, as well as representatives of KFOR. Earlier, Albanian rebela attacked police positions in the village of Marovac, the municipality of Medveđa, with two mortar shells, and attacked members of the local police in Beli Kamen, municipality of Medveđa. It was precisely in these regions that there were representatives of the Coordination Body who were preparing for the occupation of the sector D. After the preparations, Yugoslav forces from the outer circumference of sector D made a move from the starting positions and entry into sector D early in the morning of April 14. The operation was monitored by KFOR teams, EU observers and numerous journalists. After a successful operation during which there was no conflict, General Ninoslav Krstić praised the members of Operation Group South and especially praised the members of the battle group of police who occupied the Ravna Banja region - Moravce sector D. The situation in this sector after the entry of the Yugoslav Army was a staple and there were no provocations by Albanian rebels.\n\nPMBLA Commander Sefket Musliu, Ridvan Qazmi-Lleshi and Mustafa Shaqiri, signed a demobilization and demilitarization agreement of the PMBLA on May 21 in Končulj, guaranteeing the safe and peaceful entry of the Yugoslav Army into Sector B of the Ground Safety Zone according to the following schedule : Zone B South until May 22, Zone B Center until May 31, while Zone B North was not under the control of rebels. The agreement was signed in the presence of Sean Saliven, head of the NATO office for Yugoslavia. On the same day, the commander of the United Security Forces, General Ninoslav Krstić, met with the KFOR Commander in Merdare and on that occasion a document on the return of the VJ to Sector B. was signed. To accomplish this task, new special anti-terrorist and anti-trust units of the United Security Forces have been engaged. The action was carried out with the coordination of KFOR and by May 24, the Army had occupied 90 percent of the B-South and B North zones without encountering any resistance from rebels. The operation was continued to remove mines and seize weapons, ammunition and military equipment. During the occupation of the northern zone of sector B on May 24, during the exchange of fire between the VJ and the PMBLA, the rebel commander Ridvan Qazimi, in the area of the Guri Gat Hill (Black Stone) near Veliki Trnovac, was killed. The conflict lasted from 11.30 to 15.00. Qazimi was in custody with three other extremists, and when he got up and went to his jeep, he was hit in the head. After the death of Qazimi, various stories began to circulate in the south of Serbia, from killing the infected PMBLA faction members about the distribution of the remaining plunder, to escaping to Kosovo and then to Albania. At the press conference, Nebojša Čović denounced the information that Qazimi was with Sean Sullivan at the time, and he removed doubts about the fate of Ridvan Qazimi, saying he was killed in a confrontation with Serbian security forces. He also praised the way B South and B North were occupied, adding that the Army will not enter Zone B Center, where the highest concentration of terrorists is located, until May 31. The Yugoslav Army performed the last operation during the GSZ's occupation on May 31, entering the B Center zone. The return of members of the Yugoslav Army to the central part of the sector has been restored sovereignty over this part of the territory of the FRY, and the entire action was completed by 12.00, when the Serbian security forces entered the administrative line with Kosovo. During the operation, there were no conflicts or provocations by terrorists or Albanian civilians. After entering the village of Dobrosin, the center of the terrorists, police carried out an inspection of 14 abandoned accommodation facilities. In the presence of the President of the Local Community Dobrosin Reshat Salihi, they found 2 anti-personnel mines, uniforms and military equipment, three radio stations, 100 medical items and others. During the deployment of the Yugoslav Army along the left border of the central part of Sector B, at the Visoko Bilo, sergeant Bratislav Milinković (1957), a member of the 63nd Parachute Brigade from Niš, aimed at a counter-attack mine and received a severe injury to his left leg. He was taken to the military hospital in Bujanovac and then transferred to further treatment in Niš. With the entry of the United Security Forces in the Zone B Center, Operation Return was completed and control over the entire Ground Safety Zone was restored, ending the conflicts in southern Serbia.\n\nThe Battle of Oraovica was a conflict between Army and Police of FR Yugoslavia and Albanian militant group before Serbs entered last sector of Ground Security Zone. Since the village was outside GSZ, Yugoslav forces were allowed to use heavier weapons, such as M-84 tank. On 14 May Yugoslav forces launched an attack on UÇPMB stronghold in this Albanian-populated place near the border with Kosovo. Fighting began on 14 May at 06.10 AM by an attack on Yugoslav forces. At 07.00 AM guerrillas attacked Serbian police and army again and fired three rocket towards the village. More incidents happened during the day until 08.00 PM. On 15 May Serbian forces captured Oraovica although UÇPMB attacked them at 02.15 PM.\nAbout 400 Albanians surrendered to KFOR and another 150 to Serbian police. They were not charged for war crimes according to the Čović plan and Končulj agreement. Most of PMBLA members joined NLA's war in Macedonia, while others joined newly formed Liberation Army of Eastern Kosovo. Because of lack of members LAEK isn't active. Several attacks on the Serb forces and civilians were recorded after the end of the war. \n\nAfter reoccupation of Ground Safety Zone, Serbia separated it into 3 sectors. The sector B is stretching from Medveđa to the border with Republic of Macedonia. It's controlled by 4th Land Force Brigade situated in the city of Vranje. There are about eleven bases in this area. In 2009 largest military base in Serbia, Cepotina, was opened 5km from Bujanovac. \n\nIn 2002 in Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac had 57,595 ethnic Albanians. However, they boycotted the 2011 census, so only 6,000 people were recorded. It's estimated that Preševo Valley today has around 50,000 Albanians. \n\nDuring the conflict, 18 members of the Yugoslav security forces were killed and 68 were wounded. Eight civilians were also killed. Some of the deaths were caused by mines.\n\nIn 2013, UÇPMB veterans erected a memorial with the names of 27 insurgents who were killed in the conflict. Seven ethnic Albanian civilians were also killed. More than 15,000 people fled from conflict to Kosovo or Macedonia.\n\nTwo United Nations observers were wounded, according to reports.\n\nLow-intensity clashes continued over the next years. Chronology of most important events:\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral attacks on army were recorded in this period, such as: attack on watchtower in Čarska kula, sabotage on the pillar through which is powered the base of near Dobrosin and the stoning of a military motor vehicle in the village of Lučane.\n\nOn 9 July 2009, two members of Serbian Gendarmery were wounded after unnamed 'terrorists' attacked their Land Rover near the village of Lučane. On 14 July bomb exploded near the entrance of a building in Preševo where ethnic Albanian member of Gendarmery lived with his family. His wife and son were injured. Minister of Internal Affairs Ivica Dačić described this attacks as a terrorist act. Same night police conducted an operation on a border with Kosovo, cutting illegal arms smuggling to central Serbia. Minister Dačić also said they found large amounts of weapons and ammunition in village Norča near Preševo. The Government of Serbia accused former Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac high-ranking member Lirim Jakupi, known as \"Commander Nazi\". He was also wanted by Macedonia for attacks on police in 2005.\n\nIn November 2012 monument to 27 killed PMBLA fighters was erected in Preševo's main square. Government of Serbia was against it, so they gave ultimatum to local government to remove it. On 16 May the deadline expired. On 20 May Gendarmery surrounded the city with 200 men and started removing the monument with a bagger at 7:00AM. The operation was led by general Bratislav Dikić. This crisis raised the tension in the Preševo Valley once again.\n\nOn 25 January 2014 a Norwegian citizen suspected to be Wahhabi member attacked Gendarmery in Preševo. He was killed in a crossfire with the police. His motive was unknown.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34095756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34095756", "title": "Jeremy Atack", "text": "Jeremy Atack\n\nJeremy Atack (born 16 January 1949) received his B.A. from Jesus College of the University of Cambridge and his Ph.D. from Indiana University. He is Research Professor Emeritus of Economics at Vanderbilt University, a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a Fellow of the Cliometric Society, and was the Kinkhead Research Scholar at the University of Illinois (1992-1993). He is a noted academic economic historian whose primary research focus is on 19th century US industrialization. He has been president of the Economic History Association (2011–12), the Agricultural History Society (2002-3) and the Business History Conference (1999).\n\nAtack has won five research grants from the National Science Foundation and received the Clio Can award from the Cliometric Society in recognition of his work in cliometrics.\n\n\nCV. https://my.vanderbilt.edu/jeremyatack/files/213/12/CVDecember2013.pdf\n"}
{"id": "6174362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6174362", "title": "M1941 Field Jacket", "text": "M1941 Field Jacket\n\nThe Jacket, Field, O.D. (also unofficially known as O.D. Cotton Field Jacket, Parsons Jacket, M1938 or M1941) is a field jacket that was used by US Army soldiers, most famously during the beginning of World War II. In 1941 it started to be phased in as a replacement for the wool four-pocket service coat of World War I, but around 1943 it was replaced in turn by the improved M1943 model. Due to wide adoption, the M1941 is usually recognized as a symbol of the World War II American G.I.. The jacket was made in a light shade of olive drab called O.D. number 2.\n\nThrough World War I, soldiers in the United States Army wore a comfortable loose-fitting wool four pocket field garment, which Lieutenant General Edmund B. Gregory, the Quartermaster General, later (1946) explained had then subtly changed to a tight-fitting version suitable only for garrison wear. He further pointed out that this followed the general pattern adopted by most major armies of the world during the post-WWI period, but proved to be rather impractical. At the end of the 1930s, the Army moved to adopt a new outer garment that was intended to be more utilitarian and provide better protection in combat. The army's first attempts included adding a pleated \"bi-swing\" back to the service coat, a change adopted with the M1939 Service Coat.\n\nThe first field jacket was based on a civilian jacket suggested by Major General James K. Parsons, for whom it was unofficially named. Unlike the service coat, the material for the jacket was more wind and water resistant. A further reason for adopting a field jacket made of a different material was that shortages of wool were expected. The jacket could be worn with both winter (OD wool) and summer (khaki chino) uniforms as well as fatigue uniforms. The Olive Drab Cotton Field Jacket was standardized and adopted in June 1940 for use by all members of the US Army for wear with both the winter and summer service uniforms. Jackets of similar design were later also adopted by the Navy and Marine Corps.\n\nThe designations of \"M1938\", \"M1941\", or \"M41\" are technically incorrect. The Army Quartermaster Corps, who developed clothing, used model numbers sparingly and only used them to differentiate two or more similar types of garments from one another. In 1940, there was only one field jacket, so there was no need to give it a model number.\n\nThe jacket was modeled after a civilian windbreaker design, and was constructed of an olive drab shade 3 cotton poplin outer shell with a dark olive drab blanket wool flannel lining, with shell color on new jackets was a pale pea-green color, but faded fairly quickly with heavy use and sun exposure to the more common beige-green. The jacket had a front zipper front closure with a buttoned storm flap. The jacket also had buttons at the collar for closing the lapels to warm the neck region, as well as buttoned adjusting tabs on each side of the waist and at the cuffs to seal in body heat, and buttoned shoulder epaulets. There were two front slash pockets and a notched lapel collar. Earlier models of the jacket (M-38 Parsons jacket) do not have the shoulder epaulets, but the two front slash pockets had buttoned pocket flaps and a thinner half-belt back seam.\n\nWhen the US entered the war in 1941, the O.D. cotton field jacket was the standard outer garment for all army personnel, except those that had other specialist clothing (Paratroopers wore the parachutist's coat and trousers, tank crews wore the tankers jacket, various types of parkas were worn in cold weather, etc.). As a result, the field jacket could be seen worn in every theater of war and by nearly every type of soldier, making a rather ubiquitous symbol of the World War II American G.I..\n\nThroughout the course of the war, the O.D. cotton field jacket proved to be an inadequate outer garment. The jacket's thin lining provided poor insulation during cold weather and the light cotton shell provided little protection from wet weather and wind. In addition, the lighter shade of OD 3 faded quickly and resulted in a beige color, thus compromising the effect of camouflage – which troops in the field found out the hard way, and often turned their jackets inside-out because the wool lining was a darker shade of O.D. and didn't gleam in the sunlight like the poplin shell did.\n\nThe O.D. cotton field jacket was officially replaced with the adoption of the M1943 uniform ensemble as the standard, which included the much improved M1943 field jacket. The O.D. cotton field jacket was redesignated limited standard and issued until supplies were exhausted. Photographic evidence shows that soldiers continued to wear the older jacket all the way through the end of the war, due to supply shortages and squabbling between the Quartermaster Corps and field commanders, who all had their own ideas of what the troops should \"look like\". The jackets even show up in limited use during the Korean War.\n\n"}
{"id": "30863745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863745", "title": "Magnus Jacob Crusenstolpe", "text": "Magnus Jacob Crusenstolpe\n\nMagnus Jacob Crusenstolpe (1795–1865), Swedish historian; he became famous both as a political and a historical writer early in his career.\n\nCrusenstolpe won considerable distinction with a series of historical-romantic tales, (Little Stories); but his fame rests mainly on his works as a journalist, historian, biographer, and politician. His works of fiction become to a degree political or progressive (see for example \"The House of Holstein-Gottorp in Sweden\").\n\nCrusenstolpe obtained a great influence over King Charles XIV, who during the years 1830 to 1833 gave him his fullest confidence, and sanctioned the official character of Crusenstolpe's newspaper \"Fäderneslandet\". In the last-mentioned year, however, the historian suddenly became the king's bitterest enemy, and used his acrid pen on all occasions in attacking him. In 1838 he was condemned for one of these angry utterances to be imprisoned three years in the Vaxholm Castle on the charge of Lèse-majesté, culminating in the Rabulist riots. He continued his literary labours until his death in 1865. Few Swedish writers have wielded so pure and so incisive a style as Crusenstolpe, but his historical work is vitiated by political and personal bias.\n\nCrusenstolpe's first important work was a \"History of the Early Years of the Life of King Gustavus IV Adolphus\" (1837), which was followed by a series of monographs and by some politico-historical novels, of which \"The House of Holstein-Gottorp in Sweden\" is considered the best, the 5th volume of which was published in 1844.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "169955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169955", "title": "Malayalam calendar", "text": "Malayalam calendar\n\nThe Malayalam calendar or Kollam Era, also known as \"Kollavarsham\", is a solar and sidereal Hindu calendar used in the Malabar Coast of Kerala and the Tirunelveli District of Tamil Nadu in India. The origin of the calendar has been dated as 825 CE (Pothu Varsham) at Kollam.\n\nThere are multiple conflicting accounts regarding the origins of the Malayalam calendar, some of which are mentioned below:\n\nThe Malayalam months follows the Sanskritic Sauramāsa (solar month) naming convention. Thus, Cingam is named after the corresponding Sanskrit solar month, the Simham, and so on. This is unlike the case in Tulu calendar which follow the names of lunar months. The following are the months of the astronomical Malayalam calendar:\n\nThe days of the week in the Malayalam calendar are suffixed with \"Aazhcha\" (), meaning week.\n\nLike the months above, there are twenty seven stars starting from Aswati (Ashvinī in Sanskrit) and ending in Revatī. The 365 days of the year are divided into groups of fourteen days called \"Ñattuvela\" (), each one bearing the name of a star.\n\nVishu (), celebrated on the 1st of Metam, and \"Onam\" (), celebrated on the star Thiruvonam in the month of \"Chingam\", are two of the major festivals in Kerala. In Indian astrology, the passing of the sun into Aries at the vernal equinox on Metam 1, now calculated to fall on April 14, is generally celebrated as Vishu (derived from the Sanskrit \"Maha Vishuva Sankranti\", the word \"sanGkrAnti\" सङ्क्रान्ति meaning \"transference or transition to\"), and was considered a candidate for marking the start of a year. However, a conference of astronomers that the king Udaya Marthanda Varma summoned in 825 CE, resolved to start the New Year on the first of Chingam (in mid-August). While Cochin, Madurai, Tirunelveli and Ceylon followed suit, Palghat and North Kerala retained another ancient mode of reckoning the New Year from the first day of Kanni (Virgo) in September.\n\nThe Makaravilakku festival is celebrated in the Ayyappa Temple at Sabarimala on the 1st day of month \"Makaram\". This marks the grand finale of the two-month period to the Sabarimala pilgrimage. The 1st of \"Makaram\" marks the Winter Solstice (Uttarayanam) and the 1st of \"Karkaṭakam\" marks the summer solstice (Dakshinayanam) according to the Malayalam calendar. (According to the astronomical calendar the summer solstice is on June 21, and the winter solstice on December 21.)\n\nChaitram 1 (usually coinciding with March 20) or Metam 1 (usually coinciding with April 14), both in the proximity of the date of the vernal equinox (March 21), mark the beginning of the new year in many traditional Indian calendars such as the Indian National calendar and the Tamil calendar. When the Government of Kerala adopted Kolla Varsham as the regional calendar, the 1st of \"Chingam\", the month of the festival of Onam, was accepted as the Malayalam New Year instead.\n\nMany events in Kerala are related to the dates in the Malayalam calendar.\n\nThe agricultural activities of Kerala are centred on the seasons. The southwest monsoon which starts around 1 June is known as \"Etavappathi\", meaning mid-Etavam. The northeast monsoon which starts during mid October is called \"thulavarsham\" (rain in the month of \"thulam\"). The two harvests of paddy are called \"Kannikkoythu\" and \"Makarakkoythu\" (harvests in the months \"kanni\" and \"makaram\") respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1631358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631358", "title": "Mušḫuššu", "text": "Mušḫuššu\n\nThe mušḫuššu (; formerly also read as \"sirrušu\", \"sirrush\") is a creature from ancient Mesopotamian mythology. A mythological hybrid, it is a scaly dragon with hind legs resembling the talons of an eagle, feline fore legs, a long neck and tail, a horned head, a snake-like tongue, and a crest. The mušḫuššu most famously appears on the reconstructed Ishtar Gate of the city of Babylon, dating to the sixth century BC.\n\nThe form is the Akkadian nominative of the Sumerian , \"reddish snake\", sometimes also translated as \"fierce snake\". One author, possibly following others, translates it as \"splendor serpent\" ( is the Sumerian term for \"serpent\". The reading \"sir-ruššu\" is due to a mistransliteration in early Assyriology.\n\nThe \"mušḫuššu\" is the sacred animal of Marduk and his son Nabu during the Neo-Babylonian Empire. It was taken over by Marduk from Tishpak, the local god of Eshnunna.\n\nThe constellation Hydra was known in Babylonian astronomical texts as Bašmu, \"the Serpent\" (, MUŠ). It was depicted as having the torso of a fish, a tail of a snake, the fore paws of a lion, the hind legs of an eagle, with wings, and with a head comparable to the \"mušḫuššu\" dragon.\n\nSome, such as Willy Ley, believed the Mušḫuššu was a mythologized representation of a real animal, such as a Sivatherium. Other cryptozoologists, such as Robert Koldewey, believed the Mušḫuššu represented a real animal.\n\n"}
{"id": "212374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212374", "title": "Nebular hypothesis", "text": "Nebular hypothesis\n\nThe nebular hypothesis is the most widely accepted model in the field of cosmogony to explain the formation and evolution of the Solar System (as well as other planetary systems). It suggests that the Solar System is formed from the nebulous material. The theory was developed by Immanuel Kant and published in his \"Allgemeine Naturgeschichte und Theorie des Himmels\" (\"Universal Natural History and Theory of the Heavens\"), published in 1755. Originally applied to the Solar System, the process of planetary system formation is now thought to be at work throughout the Universe. The widely accepted modern variant of the nebular hypothesis is the solar nebular disk model (SNDM) or solar nebular model. It offered explanations for a variety of properties of the Solar System, including the nearly circular and coplanar orbits of the planets, and their motion in the same direction as the Sun's rotation. Some elements of the original nebular hypothesis are echoed in modern theories of planetary formation, but most elements have been superseded.\n\nAccording to the nebular hypothesis, stars form in massive and dense clouds of molecular hydrogen—giant molecular clouds (GMC). These clouds are gravitationally unstable, and matter coalesces within them to smaller denser clumps, which then rotate, collapse, and form stars. Star formation is a complex process, which always produces a gaseous protoplanetary disk, proplyd, around the young star. This may give birth to planets in certain circumstances, which are not well known. Thus the formation of planetary systems is thought to be a natural result of star formation. A Sun-like star usually takes approximately 1 million years to form, with the protoplanetary disk evolving into a planetary system over the next 10–100 million years.\n\nThe protoplanetary disk is an accretion disk that feeds the central star. Initially very hot, the disk later cools in what is known as the T Tauri star stage; here, formation of small dust grains made of rocks and ice is possible. The grains eventually may coagulate into kilometer-sized planetesimals. If the disk is massive enough, the runaway accretions begin, resulting in the rapid—100,000 to 300,000 years—formation of Moon- to Mars-sized planetary embryos. Near the star, the planetary embryos go through a stage of violent mergers, producing a few terrestrial planets. The last stage takes approximately 100 million to a billion years.\n\nThe formation of giant planets is a more complicated process. It is thought to occur beyond the frost line, where planetary embryos mainly are made of various types of ice. As a result, they are several times more massive than in the inner part of the protoplanetary disk. What follows after the embryo formation is not completely clear. Some embryos appear to continue to grow and eventually reach 5–10 Earth masses—the threshold value, which is necessary to begin accretion of the hydrogen–helium gas from the disk. The accumulation of gas by the core is initially a slow process, which continues for several million years, but after the forming protoplanet reaches about 30 Earth masses () it accelerates and proceeds in a runaway manner. Jupiter- and Saturn-like planets are thought to accumulate the bulk of their mass during only 10,000 years. The accretion stops when the gas is exhausted. The formed planets can migrate over long distances during or after their formation. Ice giants such as Uranus and Neptune are thought to be failed cores, which formed too late when the disk had almost disappeared.\n\nThere is evidence that Emanuel Swedenborg first proposed parts of the nebular hypothesis in 1734. Immanuel Kant, familiar with Swedenborg's work, developed the theory further in 1755, publishing his own \"Universal Natural History and Theory of the Heavens\", wherein he argued that gaseous clouds (nebulae) slowly rotate, gradually collapse and flatten due to gravity, eventually forming stars and planets.\n\nPierre-Simon Laplace independently developed and proposed a similar model in 1796 in his \"Exposition du systeme du monde\". He envisioned that the Sun originally had an extended hot atmosphere throughout the volume of the Solar System. His theory featured a contracting and cooling protosolar cloud—the protosolar nebula. As this cooled and contracted, it flattened and spun more rapidly, throwing off (or shedding) a series of gaseous rings of material; and according to him, the planets condensed from this material. His model was similar to Kant's, except more detailed and on a smaller scale. While the Laplacian nebular model dominated in the 19th century, it encountered a number of difficulties. The main problem involved angular momentum distribution between the Sun and planets. The planets have 99% of the angular momentum, and this fact could not be explained by the nebular model. As a result, astronomers largely abandoned this theory of planet formation at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nA major critique came during the 19th century from James Clerk Maxwell (1831-1879), who maintained that \"different rotation between the inner and outer parts of a ring\" could not allow condensation of material. Astronomer Sir David Brewster also rejected Laplace, writing in 1876 that \"those who believe in the Nebular Theory consider it as certain that our Earth derived its solid matter and its atmosphere from a ring thrown from the Solar atmosphere, which afterwards contracted into a solid terraqueous sphere, from which the Moon was thrown off by the same process\". He argued that under such view, \"the Moon must necessarily have carried off water and air from the watery and aerial parts of the Earth and must have an atmosphere\". Brewster claimed that Sir Isaac Newton's religious beliefs had previously considered nebular ideas as tending to atheism, and quoted him as saying that \"the growth of new systems out of old ones, without the mediation of a Divine power, seemed to him apparently absurd\".\n\nThe perceived deficiencies of the Laplacian model stimulated scientists to find a replacement for it. During the 20th century many theories addressed the issue, including the \"planetesimal theory\" of Thomas Chamberlin and Forest Moulton (1901), the \"tidal model\" of James Jeans (1917), the \"accretion model\" of Otto Schmidt (1944), the \"protoplanet theory\" of William McCrea (1960) and finally the \"capture theory\" of Michael Woolfson. In 1978 Andrew Prentice resurrected the initial Laplacian ideas about planet formation and developed the \"modern Laplacian theory\". None of these attempts proved completely successful, and many of the proposed theories were descriptive.\n\nThe birth of the modern widely accepted theory of planetary formation—the solar nebular disk model (SNDM)—can be traced to the Soviet astronomer Victor Safronov. His 1969 book \"Evolution of the protoplanetary cloud and formation of the Earth and the planets\", which was translated to English in 1972, had a long-lasting effect on the way scientists think about the formation of the planets. In this book almost all major problems of the planetary formation process were formulated and some of them solved. Safronov's ideas were further developed in the works of George Wetherill, who discovered \"runaway accretion\". While originally applied only to the Solar System, the SNDM was subsequently thought by theorists to be at work throughout the Universe; as of astronomers have discovered extrasolar planets in our galaxy.\n\nThe star formation process naturally results in the appearance of accretion disks around young stellar objects. At the age of about 1 million years, 100% of stars may have such disks. This conclusion is supported by the discovery of the gaseous and dusty disks around protostars and T Tauri stars as well as by theoretical considerations. Observations of these disks show that the dust grains inside them grow in size on short (thousand-year) time scales, producing 1 centimeter sized particles.\n\nThe accretion process, by which 1 km planetesimals grow into 1,000 km sized bodies, is well understood now. This process develops inside any disk where the number density of planetesimals is sufficiently high, and proceeds in a runaway manner. Growth later slows and continues as oligarchic accretion. The end result is formation of planetary embryos of varying sizes, which depend on the distance from the star. Various simulations have demonstrated that the merger of embryos in the inner part of the protoplanetary disk leads to the formation of a few Earth-sized bodies. Thus the origin of terrestrial planets is now considered to be an almost solved problem.\n\nThe physics of accretion disks encounters some problems. The most important one is how the material, which is accreted by the protostar, loses its angular momentum. One possible explanation suggested by Hannes Alfvén was that angular momentum was shed by the solar wind during its T Tauri star phase. The momentum is transported to the outer parts of the disk by viscous stresses. Viscosity is generated by macroscopic turbulence, but the precise mechanism that produces this turbulence is not well understood. Another possible process for shedding angular momentum is magnetic braking, where the spin of the star is transferred into the surrounding disk via that star's magnetic field. The main processes responsible for the disappearance of the gas in disks are viscous diffusion and photo-evaporation.\n\nThe formation of planetesimals is the biggest unsolved problem in the nebular disk model. How 1 cm sized particles coalesce into 1 km planetesimals is a mystery. This mechanism appears to be the key to the question as to why some stars have planets, while others have nothing around them, not even dust belts.\n\nThe formation timescale of giant planets is also an important problem. Old theories were unable to explain how their cores could form fast enough to accumulate significant amounts of gas from the quickly disappearing protoplanetary disk. The mean lifetime of the disks, which is less than ten million (10) years, appeared to be shorter than the time necessary for the core formation. Much progress has been done to solve this problem and current models of giant planet formation are now capable of forming Jupiter (or more massive planets) in about 4 million years or less, well within the average lifetime of gaseous disks.\n\nAnother potential problem of giant planet formation is their orbital migration. Some calculations show that interaction with the disk can cause rapid inward migration, which, if not stopped, results in the planet reaching the \"central regions still as a sub-Jovian object.\" More recent calculations indicate that disk evolution during migration can mitigate this problem.\n\nStars are thought to form inside giant clouds of cold molecular hydrogen—giant molecular clouds roughly 300,000 times the mass of the Sun () and 20 parsecs in diameter. Over millions of years, giant molecular clouds are prone to collapse and fragmentation. These fragments then form small, dense cores, which in turn collapse into stars. The cores range in mass from a fraction to several times that of the Sun and are called protostellar (protosolar) nebulae. They possess diameters of 0.01–0.1 pc (2,000–20,000 AU) and a particle number density of roughly 10,000 to 100,000 cm.\n\nThe initial collapse of a solar-mass protostellar nebula takes around 100,000 years. Every nebula begins with a certain amount of angular momentum. Gas in the central part of the nebula, with relatively low angular momentum, undergoes fast compression and forms a hot hydrostatic (not contracting) core containing a small fraction of the mass of the original nebula. This core forms the seed of what will become a star. As the collapse continues, conservation of angular momentum means that the rotation of the infalling envelope accelerates, which largely prevents the gas from directly accreting onto the central core. The gas is instead forced to spread outwards near its equatorial plane, forming a disk, which in turn accretes onto the core. The core gradually grows in mass until it becomes a young hot protostar. At this stage, the protostar and its disk are heavily obscured by the infalling envelope and are not directly observable. In fact the remaining envelope's opacity is so high that even millimeter-wave radiation has trouble escaping from inside it. Such objects are observed as very bright condensations, which emit mainly millimeter-wave and submillimeter-wave radiation. They are classified as spectral Class 0 protostars. The collapse is often accompanied by bipolar outflows—jets—that emanate along the rotational axis of the inferred disk. The jets are frequently observed in star-forming regions (see Herbig–Haro (HH) objects). The luminosity of the Class 0 protostars is high — a solar-mass protostar may radiate at up to 100 solar luminosities. The source of this energy is gravitational collapse, as their cores are not yet hot enough to begin nuclear fusion.\nAs the infall of its material onto the disk continues, the envelope eventually becomes thin and transparent and the young stellar object (YSO) becomes observable, initially in far-infrared light and later in the visible. Around this time the protostar begins to fuse deuterium. If the protostar is sufficiently massive (above 80 Jupiter masses ()), hydrogen fusion follows. Otherwise, if its mass is too low, the object becomes a brown dwarf. This birth of a new star occurs approximately 100,000 years after the collapse begins. Objects at this stage are known as Class I protostars, which are also called young T Tauri stars, evolved protostars, or young stellar objects. By this time the forming star has already accreted much of its mass: the total mass of the disk and remaining envelope does not exceed 10–20% of the mass of the central YSO.\n\nAt the next stage the envelope completely disappears, having been gathered up by the disk, and the protostar becomes a classical T Tauri star. This happens after about 1 million years. The mass of the disk around a classical T Tauri star is about 1–3% of the stellar mass, and it is accreted at a rate of 10 to per year. A pair of bipolar jets is usually present as well. The accretion explains all peculiar properties of classical T Tauri stars: strong flux in the emission lines (up to 100% of the intrinsic luminosity of the star), magnetic activity, photometric variability and jets. The emission lines actually form as the accreted gas hits the \"surface\" of the star, which happens around its magnetic poles. The jets are byproducts of accretion: they carry away excessive angular momentum. The classical T Tauri stage lasts about 10 million years. The disk eventually disappears due to accretion onto the central star, planet formation, ejection by jets and photoevaporation by UV-radiation from the central star and nearby stars. As a result, the young star becomes a weakly lined T Tauri star, which slowly, over hundreds of millions of years, evolves into an ordinary Sun-like star.\n\nUnder certain circumstances the disk, which can now be called protoplanetary, may give birth to a planetary system. Protoplanetary disks have been observed around a very high fraction of stars in young star clusters. They exist from the beginning of a star's formation, but at the earliest stages are unobservable due to the opacity of the surrounding envelope. The disk of a Class 0 protostar is thought to be massive and hot. It is an accretion disk, which feeds the central protostar. The temperature can easily exceed 400 K inside 5 AU and 1,000 K inside 1 AU. The heating of the disk is primarily caused by the viscous dissipation of turbulence in it and by the infall of the gas from the nebula. The high temperature in the inner disk causes most of the volatile material—water, organics, and some rocks to evaporate, leaving only the most refractory elements like iron. The ice can survive only in the outer part of the disk.\n\nThe main problem in the physics of accretion disks is the generation of turbulence and the mechanism responsible for the high effective viscosity. The turbulent viscosity is thought to be responsible for the transport of the mass to the central protostar and momentum to the periphery of the disk. This is vital for accretion, because the gas can be accreted by the central protostar only if it loses most of its angular momentum, which must be carried away by the small part of the gas drifting outwards. The result of this process is the growth of both the protostar and of the disk radius, which can reach 1,000 AU if the initial angular momentum of the nebula is large enough. Large disks are routinely observed in many star-forming regions such as the Orion nebula.\n\nThe lifespan of the accretion disks is about 10 million years. By the time the star reaches the classical T-Tauri stage, the disk becomes thinner and cools. Less volatile materials start to condense close to its center, forming 0.1–1 μm dust grains that contain crystalline silicates. The transport of the material from the outer disk can mix these newly formed dust grains with primordial ones, which contain organic matter and other volatiles. This mixing can explain some peculiarities in the composition of Solar System bodies such as the presence of interstellar grains in the primitive meteorites and refractory inclusions in comets.\n\nDust particles tend to stick to each other in the dense disk environment, leading to the formation of larger particles up to several centimeters in size. The signatures of the dust processing and coagulation are observed in the infrared spectra of the young disks. Further aggregation can lead to the formation of planetesimals measuring 1 km across or larger, which are the building blocks of planets. Planetesimal formation is another unsolved problem of disk physics, as simple sticking becomes ineffective as dust particles grow larger.\n\nOne hypothesis is formation by the gravitational instability. Particles several centimeters in size or larger slowly settle near the middle plane of the disk, forming a very thin—less than 100 km—and dense layer. This layer is gravitationally unstable and may fragment into numerous clumps, which in turn collapse into planetesimals. However, the differing velocities of the gas disk and the solids near the mid-plane can generate turbulence which prevents the layer from becoming thin enough to fragment due to gravitational instability. This may limit the formation of planetesimals via gravitational instabilities to specific locations in the disk where the concentration of solids is enhanced.\n\nAnother possible mechanism for the formation of planetesimals is the streaming instability in which the drag felt by particles orbiting through gas creates a feedback effect causing the growth of local concentrations. These local concentration push back on the gas creating a region where the headwind felt by the particles is smaller. The concentration is thus able to orbit faster and undergoes less radial drift. Isolated particles join these concentrations as they are overtaken or as they drift inward causing it to grow in mass. Eventually these concentrations form massive filaments which fragment and undergo gravitational collapse forming planetesimals the size of the larger asteroids.\n\nPlanetary formation can also be triggered by gravitational instability within the disk itself, which leads to its fragmentation into clumps. Some of them, if they are dense enough, will collapse, which can lead to rapid formation of gas giant planets and even brown dwarfs on the timescale of 1,000 years. If these clumps migrate inward as the collapse proceeds tidal forces from the star can result in a significant mass loss leaving behind a smaller body. However it is only possible in massive disks—more massive than . In comparison, typical disk masses are . Because the massive disks are rare, this mechanism of the planet formation is thought to be infrequent. On the other hand, this mechanism may play a major role in the formation of brown dwarfs.\n\nThe ultimate dissipation of protoplanetary disks is triggered by a number of different mechanisms. The inner part of the disk is either accreted by the star or ejected by the bipolar jets, whereas the outer part can evaporate under the star's powerful UV radiation during the T Tauri stage or by nearby stars. The gas in the central part can either be accreted or ejected by the growing planets, while the small dust particles are ejected by the radiation pressure of the central star. What is finally left is either a planetary system, a remnant disk of dust without planets, or nothing, if planetesimals failed to form.\n\nBecause planetesimals are so numerous, and spread throughout the protoplanetary disk, some survive the formation of a planetary system. Asteroids are understood to be left-over planetesimals, gradually grinding each other down into smaller and smaller bits, while comets are typically planetesimals from the farther reaches of a planetary system. Meteorites are samples of planetesimals that reach a planetary surface, and provide a great deal of information about the formation of the Solar System. Primitive-type meteorites are chunks of shattered low-mass planetesimals, where no thermal differentiation took place, while processed-type meteorites are chunks from shattered massive planetesimals.\n\nAccording to the solar nebular disk model, rocky planets form in the inner part of the protoplanetary disk, within the frost line, where the temperature is high enough to prevent condensation of water ice and other substances into grains. This results in coagulation of purely rocky grains and later in the formation of rocky planetesimals. Such conditions are thought to exist in the inner 3–4 AU part of the disk of a Sun-like star.\n\nAfter small planetesimals—about 1 km in diameter—have formed by one way or another, \"runaway accretion\" begins. It is called runaway because the mass growth rate is proportional to , where R and M are the radius and mass of the growing body, respectively. The specific (divided by mass) growth accelerates as the mass increases. This leads to the preferential growth of larger bodies at the expense of smaller ones. The runaway accretion lasts between 10,000 and 100,000 years and ends when the largest bodies exceed approximately 1,000 km in diameter. Slowing of the accretion is caused by gravitational perturbations by large bodies on the remaining planetesimals. In addition, the influence of larger bodies stops further growth of smaller bodies.\n\nThe next stage is called \"oligarchic accretion\". It is characterized by the dominance of several hundred of the largest bodies—oligarchs, which continue to slowly accrete planetesimals. No body other than the oligarchs can grow. At this stage the rate of accretion is proportional to R, which is derived from the geometrical cross-section of an oligarch. The specific accretion rate is proportional to ; and it declines with the mass of the body. This allows smaller oligarchs to catch up to larger ones. The oligarchs are kept at the distance of about (= is the Hill radius, where a is the semimajor axis, e is the orbital eccentricity, and M is the mass of the central star) from each other by the influence of the remaining planetesimals. Their orbital eccentricities and inclinations remain small. The oligarchs continue to accrete until planetesimals are exhausted in the disk around them. Sometimes nearby oligarchs merge. The final mass of an oligarch depends on the distance from the star and surface density of planetesimals and is called the isolation mass. For the rocky planets it is up to , or one Mars mass. The final result of the oligarchic stage is the formation of about 100 Moon- to Mars-sized planetary embryos uniformly spaced at about . They are thought to reside inside gaps in the disk and to be separated by rings of remaining planetesimals. This stage is thought to last a few hundred thousand years.\n\nThe last stage of rocky planet formation is the \"merger stage\". It begins when only a small number of planetesimals remains and embryos become massive enough to perturb each other, which causes their orbits to become chaotic. During this stage embryos expel remaining planetesimals, and collide with each other. The result of this process, which lasts for 10 to 100 million years, is the formation of a limited number of Earth-sized bodies. Simulations show that the number of surviving planets is on average from 2 to 5. In the Solar System they may be represented by Earth and Venus. Formation of both planets required merging of approximately 10–20 embryos, while an equal number of them were thrown out of the Solar System. Some of the embryos, which originated in the asteroid belt, are thought to have brought water to Earth. Mars and Mercury may be regarded as remaining embryos that survived that rivalry. Rocky planets, which have managed to coalesce, settle eventually into more or less stable orbits, explaining why planetary systems are generally packed to the limit; or, in other words, why they always appear to be at the brink of instability.\n\nThe formation of giant planets is an outstanding problem in the planetary sciences. In the framework of the solar nebular model two theories for their formation exist. The first one is the \"disk instability model\", where giant planets form in the massive protoplanetary disks as a result of its gravitational fragmentation (see above). The second possibility is the \"core accretion model\", which is also known as the \"nucleated instability model\". The latter scenario is thought to be the most promising one, because it can explain the formation of the giant planets in relatively low-mass disks (less than ). In this model giant planet formation is divided into two stages: a) accretion of a core of approximately and b) accretion of gas from the protoplanetary disk. Either method may also lead to the creation of brown dwarfs. Searches as of 2011 have found that core accretion is likely the dominant formation mechanism.\n\nGiant planet core formation is thought to proceed roughly along the lines of the terrestrial planet formation. It starts with planetesimals that undergo runaway growth, followed by the slower oligarchic stage. Hypotheses do not predict a merger stage, due to the low probability of collisions between planetary embryos in the outer part of planetary systems. An additional difference is the composition of the planetesimals, which in the case of giant planets form beyond the so-called snow line and consist mainly of ice—the ice to rock ratio is about 4 to 1. This enhances the mass of planetesimals fourfold. However, the minimum mass nebula capable of terrestrial planet formation can only form cores at the distance of Jupiter (5 AU) within 10 million years. The latter number represents the average lifetime of gaseous disks around Sun-like stars. The proposed solutions include enhanced mass of the disk—a tenfold increase would suffice; protoplanet migration, which allows the embryo to accrete more planetesimals; and finally accretion enhancement due to gas drag in the gaseous envelopes of the embryos. Some combination of the above-mentioned ideas may explain the formation of the cores of gas giant planets such as Jupiter and perhaps even Saturn. The formation of planets like Uranus and Neptune is more problematic, since no theory has been capable of providing for the in situ formation of their cores at the distance of 20–30 AU from the central star. One hypothesis is that they initially accreted in the Jupiter-Saturn region, then were scattered and migrated to their present location. Another possible solution is the growth of the cores of the giant planets via pebble accretion. In pebble accretion objects between a cm and a meter in diameter falling toward a massive body are slowed enough by gas drag for them to spiral toward it and be accreted. Growth via pebble accretion may be as much as 1000 times faster than by the accretion of planetesimals.\n\nOnce the cores are of sufficient mass (), they begin to gather gas from the surrounding disk. Initially it is a slow process, increasing the core masses up to in a few million years. After that, the accretion rates increase dramatically and the remaining 90% of the mass is accumulated in approximately 10,000 years. The accretion of gas stops when the supply from the disk is exhausted. This happens gradually, due to the formation of a density gap in the protoplanetary disk and to disk dispersal. In this model ice giants—Uranus and Neptune—are failed cores that began gas accretion too late, when almost all gas had already disappeared. The post-runaway-gas-accretion stage is characterized by migration of the newly formed giant planets and continued slow gas accretion. Migration is caused by the interaction of the planet sitting in the gap with the remaining disk. It stops when the protoplanetary disk disappears or when the end of the disk is attained. The latter case corresponds to the so-called hot Jupiters, which are likely to have stopped their migration when they reached the inner hole in the protoplanetary disk.\n\nGiant planets can significantly influence terrestrial planet formation. The presence of giants tends to increase eccentricities and inclinations (see Kozai mechanism) of planetesimals and embryos in the terrestrial planet region (inside 4 AU in the Solar System). If giant planets form too early, they can slow or prevent inner planet accretion. If they form near the end of the oligarchic stage, as is thought to have happened in the Solar System, they will influence the merges of planetary embryos, making them more violent. As a result, the number of terrestrial planets will decrease and they will be more massive. In addition, the size of the system will shrink, because terrestrial planets will form closer to the central star. The influence of giant planets in the Solar System, particularly that of Jupiter, is thought to have been limited because they are relatively remote from the terrestrial planets.\n\nThe region of a planetary system adjacent to the giant planets will be influenced in a different way. In such a region, eccentricities of embryos may become so large that the embryos pass close to a giant planet, which may cause them to be ejected from the system. If all embryos are removed, then no planets will form in this region. An additional consequence is that a huge number of small planetesimals will remain, because giant planets are incapable of clearing them all out without the help of embryos. The total mass of remaining planetesimals will be small, because cumulative action of the embryos before their ejection and giant planets is still strong enough to remove 99% of the small bodies. Such a region will eventually evolve into an asteroid belt, which is a full analog of the asteroid belt in the Solar System, located from 2 to 4 AU from the Sun.\n\nThousands of exoplanets have been identified in the last twenty years. The orbits of many of these planets and systems of planets differ significantly from the planets in the Solar System. The exoplanets discovered include hot-Jupiters, warm-Jupiters, super-Earths, and systems of tightly packed inner planets.\n\nThe hot-Jupiters and warm-Jupiters are thought to have migrated to their current orbits during or following their formation. A number of possible mechanisms for this migration have been proposed. Type I or Type II migration could smoothly decrease the semimajor axis of the planet's orbit resulting in a warm- or hot-Jupiter. Gravitational scattering by other planets onto eccentric orbits with a perihelion near the star followed by the circularization of its orbit due to tidal interactions with the star can leave a planet on a close orbit. If a massive companion planet or star on an inclined orbit was present an exchange of inclination for eccentricity via the Kozai mechanism raising eccentricities and lowering perihelion followed by circularization can also result in a close orbit. Many of the Jupiter-sized planets have eccentric orbits which may indicate that gravitational encounters occurred between the planets, although migration while in resonance can also excite eccentricities. The in situ growth of hot Jupiters from closely orbiting super Earths has also been proposed. The cores in this hypothesis could have formed locally or at a greater distance and migrated close to the star.\n\nSuper-Earths and other closely orbiting planets are thought to have either formed in situ or to have migrated inward from their initial locations. The in situ formation of closely orbiting super-Earths would require a massive disk, the migration of planetary embryos followed by collisions and mergers, or the radial drift of small solids from farther out in the disk. The migration of the super-Earths, or the embryos that collided to form them, is likely to have been Type I due to their smaller mass. The resonant orbits of some of the exoplanet systems indicates that some migration occurred in these systems, while the spacing of the orbits in many of the other systems not in resonance indicates that an instability likely occurred in those systems after the dissipation of the gas disk. The absence of Super-Earths and closely orbiting planets in the Solar System may be due to the previous formation of Jupiter blocking their inward migration.\n\nThe amount of gas a super-Earth that formed in situ acquires may depend on when the planetary embryos merged due to giant impacts relative to the dissipation of the gas disk. If the mergers happen after the gas disk dissipates terrestrial planets can form, if in a transition disk a super-Earth with a gas envelope containing a few percent of its mass may form. If the mergers happen too early runaway gas accretion may occur leading to the formation of a gas giant. The mergers begin when the dynamical friction due to the gas disk becomes insufficient to prevent collisions, a process that will begin earlier in a higher metallicity disk. Alternatively gas accretion may be limited due to the envelopes not being in hydrostatic equilibrium, instead gas may flow through the envelope slowing its growth and delaying the onset of runaway gas accretion until the mass of the core reaches 15 Earth masses.\n\nUse of the term \"accretion disk\" for the protoplanetary disk leads to confusion over the planetary accretion process.\nThe protoplanetary disk is sometimes referred to as an accretion disk, because while the young T Tauri-like protostar is still contracting, gaseous material may still be falling onto it, accreting on its surface from the disk's inner edge. In an accretion disk, there is a net flux of mass from larger radii toward smaller radii.\n\nHowever, that meaning should not be confused with the process of accretion forming the planets. In this context, accretion refers to the process of cooled, solidified grains of dust and ice orbiting the protostar in the protoplanetary disk, colliding and sticking together and gradually growing, up to and including the high-energy collisions between sizable planetesimals.\n\nIn addition, the giant planets probably had accretion disks of their own, in the first meaning of the word. The clouds of captured hydrogen and helium gas contracted, spun up, flattened, and deposited gas onto the surface of each giant protoplanet, while solid bodies within that disk accreted into the giant planet's regular moons.\n\n"}
{"id": "43644557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43644557", "title": "Nikolai Mashkin", "text": "Nikolai Mashkin\n\nNikolai Alexandrovich Mashkin (9 February 1900, Sokolki – 15 September 1950, Moscow) was a Soviet scholar of Roman history (Doctor of Historical Sciences and Professor from 1942). Mashkin authored \"The History of Ancient Rome\" (1947–56), which was translated into several languages, and \"The Principate of Augustus. Its Origin and Social Essence\" (1949, translated into German, Italian, Hungarian and Romanian languages). In 1950 Mashkin received the State Prize of the USSR.\n\nMashkin was born in the village of Sokolki, present Bugulminsky District in Russia. Having finished a school in Bugulma, he studied at the Faculty of History and Philosophy of the Samara State University (1921/22) and at the Faculty of Social Sciences of the Moscow University. In 1938 Mashkin received his doctorate. Mashkin extensively studied the history of Roman provinces, particularly Africa. He also authored several works on circumcellions.\n"}
{"id": "13007153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13007153", "title": "Ninju", "text": "Ninju\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22602259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22602259", "title": "Northumbria's Golden Age", "text": "Northumbria's Golden Age\n\nThe Northumbrian Renaissance or Northumbria's Golden Age is the name given to a period of cultural flowering in the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Northumbria, broadly speaking from the mid-seventh to the mid-eighth centuries. It is characterised by a blend of insular art, Germanic art and Mediterranean influence. Authors associated with this golden age include Bede and Alcuin; artefacts include the Lindisfarne Gospels and associated manuscripts, the Ruthwell Cross and associated sculptures, and, arguably, the Franks Casket. An illustration of the cultural activity of Northumbria during this period is given by Alcuin's \"De Sanctis et Pontificibus Ecclesiæ Eboracensis\", which gives particular attention to Bishop Æthelbert of York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31569955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31569955", "title": "Patrickholme bone bead", "text": "Patrickholme bone bead\n\nThe Patrickholme bone bead is a square sectioned bone fragment with a perforated hollow through the middle\n\nIt was found during archaeological excavations in Patrickholme sand quarry in Lanarkshire, Scotland by J. H. Maxwell in 1949. It has been tentatively suggested that this might be tangible evidence of a prehistoric unit of measurement. It measures 33mm and is suggested to date to the Bronze Age. Due to oxidization its original length is uncertain. Three and a half beads were found in total with five other bones that may have been beads. The Patrickholme bone bead was the only one showing a square section that was likely to have been artificially shaped.\n\n"}
{"id": "53125241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53125241", "title": "Ras Boutria", "text": "Ras Boutria\n\nRas Boutria or Ras Bou Tria is a head land of the eastern coast of Tunisia that marks the northern tip of the governorate of Sfax. On the shore there is the archaeological site of ancient Acholla, a Roman city of Africa Proconsularis with ruins of houses Roman amphitheater and baths, and the cities of Louâtre Louzes nearby. it is located at 35°4'33\" N and 11°1'40\" E.\n"}
{"id": "4802755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4802755", "title": "Robert Farris Thompson", "text": "Robert Farris Thompson\n\nRobert Farris Thompson (born December 30, 1932, El Paso, Texas) is an American historian and writer specialising in the art of Africa and the Afro-Atlantic world. He has been a member of the faculty at Yale University since 1965 and currently serves as the Colonel John Trumbull Professor of the History of Art. Thompson coined the term \"black Atlantic\" in his 1983 book \"Flash of the Spirit: African and Afro-American Art and Philosophy\" - the expanded subject of Paul Gilroy's book \"The Black Atlantic\".\n\nHe lived in the Yoruba region of southwest Nigeria for many years while he conducted his research of Yoruba arts history. He is affiliated with the University of Ibadan and frequented Yoruba village communities. Thompson has studied the African arts of the diaspora in the United States, Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, and several Caribbean islands. Robert Farris Thompson is also an authority on hip-hop culture.\n\nIn 1955, Thompson received his B.A. from Yale University. After receiving his bachelor's degree, he continued his studies at Yale, where he received his Masters in 1961 and his Ph.D in 1965.\n\nHaving served as Master of Timothy Dwight College from 1978 until 2010, he was the longest serving master of a residential college at Yale. Thompson is one of America's most prominent scholars of African art, and has presided over exhibitions of African art at the National Gallery in Washington D. C.. He is one of the longest-serving alumni of Yale.\n\nBeginning with an article on Afro-Cuban dance and music (published in 1958), Thompson has dedicated his life to the study of art history of the Afro-Atlantic world. His first book was \"Black Gods and Kings\", which was a close reading of the art history of the Yoruba people of southwestern Nigeria (population of approximately 40 million). Other published works include- \"African Art in Motion, Flash of the Spirit\" (1983), \"Face of the Gods\", and \"Tango: The Art History of Love.\" Thompson also published an introduction to the diaries of Keith Haring. Some of his works have even been translated into German, Portuguese, French and Flemish. Additionally, Thompson also studies the art of Guillermo Kuitca and José Bedia, and has been anthologized 15 times.\n\nIn 2007, Thompson was given the \"Outstanding Contribution to Dance Research\" award, by the Congress on Research in Dance.\n\nProfessor Thompson is an active gym goer. He speaks fluently in four languages which include French, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish and can speak intermediately in Yoruba, Ki-Kongo and Creole. He has been to nearly all 47 counties of Africa and has a sister, two children and four grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "433207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433207", "title": "Rosslyn Chapel", "text": "Rosslyn Chapel\n\nRosslyn Chapel, formally known as the Collegiate Chapel of St Matthew, is a 15th-century chapel located in the village of Roslin, Midlothian, Scotland.\n\nRosslyn Chapel was founded on a small hill above Roslin Glen as a Catholic collegiate church (with between four and six ordained canons and two boy choristers) in the mid-15th century. The chapel was founded by William Sinclair, 1st Earl of Caithness of the Scoto-Norman Sinclair family. Rosslyn Chapel is the third Sinclair place of worship at Roslin, the first being in Roslin Castle and the second (whose crumbling buttresses can still be seen today) in what is now Roslin Cemetery.\n\nSinclair founded the college to celebrate the Divine Office throughout the day and night, and also to celebrate Masses for all the faithful departed, including the deceased members of the Sinclair family. During this period, the rich heritage of plainsong (a single melodic line) or polyphony (vocal harmony) were used to enrich the singing of the liturgy. Sinclair provided an endowment to pay for the support of the priests and choristers in perpetuity. The priests also had parochial responsibilities.\n\nAfter the Scottish Reformation (1560), Roman Catholic worship in the chapel was brought to an end. The Sinclair family continued to be Roman Catholics until the early 18th century. From that time, the chapel was closed to public worship until 1861. It was re-opened as a place of worship according to the rites of the Scottish Episcopal Church, a member church of the Anglican Communion.\n\nIt was reported in \"The Argus\" of Melbourne, Australia that Rosslyn Chapel was the site of an alleged bombing attempt by a suffragette.\n\nSince the late 1980s, the chapel has been the subject of speculative theories concerning a connection with the Knights Templar and the Holy Grail, and Freemasonry. It was prominently featured in this role in Dan Brown's bestselling novel \"The Da Vinci Code\" (2003) and its 2006 film adaptation. Medieval historians say these accounts have no basis in fact.\n\nRosslyn Chapel remains privately owned. The current owner is Peter St Clair-Erskine, 7th Earl of Rosslyn.\n\nThe original plans for Rosslyn have never been found or recorded, so it is open to speculation whether or not the chapel was intended to be built in its current layout. Its architecture is considered to be among the finest in Scotland.\n\nConstruction of the chapel began on 20 September 1456, although it has often been recorded as 1446. The confusion over the building date comes from the chapel's receiving its founding charter to build a collegiate chapel in 1446 from Rome. Sinclair did not start to build the chapel until he had built houses for his craftsmen.\n\nAlthough the original building was to be cruciform, it was never completed. Only the choir was constructed, with the retro-chapel, otherwise called the Lady chapel, built on the much earlier crypt (Lower Chapel) believed to form part of an earlier castle. The foundations of the unbuilt nave and transepts stretching to a distance of 90 feet were recorded in the 19th century. The decorative carving was executed over a forty-year period. After the founder's death, construction of the planned nave and transepts was abandoned - either from lack of funds, lack of interest or a change in liturgical fashion.\n\nThe Lower Chapel (also known as the crypt or sacristy) should not be confused with the burial vaults that lie underneath Rosslyn Chapel.\n\nThe chapel stands on fourteen pillars, which form an arcade of twelve pointed arches on three sides of the nave. At the east end, a fourteenth pillar between the penultimate pair form a three-pillared division between the nave and the Lady chapel. The three pillars at the east end of the chapel are named, from north to south: the Master Pillar, the Journeyman Pillar and, most famously, the Apprentice Pillar. These names for the pillars date from the late Georgian period — prior to this period they were called the Earl's Pillar, the Shekinah and the Prince's Pillar.\n\nOne of the more notable architectural features of the Chapel is the \"Apprentice Pillar, or \"Prentice Pillar\". Originally called the \"Prince's Pillar\" (in the 1778 document \"An Account of the Chapel of Roslin\") the name morphed over time due to a legend dating from the 18th century, involving the master mason in charge of the stonework in the chapel and his young apprentice mason. According to the legend, the master mason did not believe that the apprentice could perform the complicated task of carving the column without seeing the original which formed the inspiration for the design.\n\nThe master mason travelled to see the original himself, but upon his return was enraged to find that the upstart apprentice had completed the column by himself. In a fit of jealous anger, the master mason took his mallet and struck the apprentice on the head, killing him. The legend concludes that as punishment for his crime, the master mason's face was carved into the opposite corner to forever gaze upon his apprentice's pillar.\n\nOn the architrave joining the pillar there is an inscription, \"Forte est vinum fortior est rex fortiores sunt mulieres super omnia vincit veritas\": \"Wine is strong, a king is stronger, women are stronger still, but truth conquers all\" (1 Esdras, chapters 3 & 4).\n\nThe author Henning Klovekorn has proposed that the pillar is representative of one of the roots of the Nordic Yggdrasil tree, prominent in Germanic and Norse mythology. He compares the dragons at the base of the pillar to the dragons found eating away at the base of the Yggdrasil root and, pointing out that at the top of the pillar is carved tree foliage, argues that the Nordic/Viking association is plausible considering the many auxiliary references in the chapel to Celtic and Norse mythology.\nThe general form of the pillar has been related to a type described by the French architect Eugène Viollet-le-Duc as a \"bunch of sausages.\"\n\nA full-size plaster cast of the Apprentice Pillar and the adjacent bay of the chapel was made in 1871, and is in the Cast Courts of the Victoria and Albert Museum in London.\n\nAmong Rosslyn's many intricate carvings are a sequence of 213 cubes or \"boxes\" protruding from pillars and arches with a selection of patterns on them. It is unknown if these patterns have any particular meaning attached to them. Many people have attempted to find information coded into them, but no interpretation has yet proven conclusive. Unfortunately, many of these 'boxes' are not original, having been replaced in the 19th century after erosion damage.\n\nOne recent attempt to make sense of the boxes has been to interpret them as a musical score. The motifs on the boxes somewhat resemble geometric patterns seen in the study of cymatics. The patterns are formed by placing powder upon a flat surface and vibrating the surface at different frequencies. By matching these Chladni patterns with musical notes corresponding to the same frequencies, the father-and-son team of Thomas and Stuart Mitchell produced a tune which Stuart calls the \"Rosslyn Motet\".\nThere are more than 110 carvings of \"Green Men\" in and around the chapel. Green Men are carvings of human faces with greenery all around them, often growing out of their mouths. They are found in all areas of the chapel, with one example in the Lady chapel, between the two middle altars of the east wall.\nOther carvings represent plants, including depictions of wheat, strawberries or lilies. The authors Robert Lomas and Christopher Knight have hypothesized that some carvings in the chapel represent ears of new world corn or maize, a plant which was unknown in Europe at the time of the chapel's construction. Knight and Lomas view these carvings as evidence supporting the idea that Henry I Sinclair, Earl of Orkney, travelled to the Americas well before Columbus. In their book they discuss meeting with the wife of botanist Adrian. Dyer, and that Dyer's wife told him that Dyer agreed that the image thought to be maize was accurate. In fact Dyer found only one identifiable plant among the botanical carvings and suggested that the \"maize\" and \"aloe\" were stylized wooden patterns, only coincidentally looking like real plants.\n\nThe chapel has been a burial place for several generations of the Sinclairs; a crypt was once accessible from a descending stair at the rear of the chapel. This crypt has been sealed shut for many years, which may explain the recurrent legends that it is merely a front to a more extensive subterranean vault containing (variously) the mummified head of Jesus Christ, the Holy Grail, the treasure of the Templars, or the original crown jewels of Scotland.\n\nIn 1837, when the 2nd Earl of Rosslyn died, his wish was to be buried in the original vault. Exhaustive searches over the period of a week were made, but no entrance to the original vault was found and he was buried beside his wife in the Lady Chapel.\n\nThe pinnacles on the rooftop have been subject to interest during renovation work in 2010. Nesting jackdaws had made the pinnacles unstable and as such had to be dismantled brick by brick revealing the existence of a chamber specifically made by the stonemasons to harbour bees. The hive, now abandoned, has been sent to local bee keepers to identify.\n\n\nThe chapel's altars were destroyed in 1592, and the chapel was abandoned, gradually falling into decay.\n\nIn 1842 the chapel, then in a ruined and overgrown state, was visited by Queen Victoria, who expressed a desire that it should be preserved. Restoration work was carried out in 1862 by David Bryce on behalf of James Alexander, 3rd Earl of Rosslyn. The chapel was re-dedicated on 22 April 1862, and from this time, Sunday services were once again held, now under the jurisdiction of the Scottish Episcopal Church, for the first time in 270 years.\n\nThe Rosslyn Chapel Trust was established in 1995, with the purpose of overseeing its conservation and its opening as a sightseeing destination. The chapel underwent an extensive programme of conservation between 1997 and 2013. This included work to the roof, the stone, the carvings, the stained glass and the organ. A steel canopy was erected over the chapel roof for fourteen years. This was to prevent further rain damage to the church and also to give it a chance to dry out properly. Three human skeletons were found during the restoration. Major stonework repairs were completed by the end of 2011. The last major scaffolding was removed in August 2010.\n\nA new visitor centre opened in July 2011. The chapel's stained-glass windows and organ were fully restored. New lighting and heating were installed. The expected cost of the restoration work is around £13 million, with about £3.7 million being spent on the Visitor Centre. Funding has come from various sources including Heritage Lottery Fund, Historic Scotland and the environmental body, WREN. Actor Tom Hanks also made a donation.\n\nPhotography and video have been forbidden in the chapel since 2008. The chapel sells commercially produced photos in its shop. In 2006, historian Louise Yeoman criticised the Rosslyn Chapel trust for \"cashing in\" on the popularity of \"The Da Vinci Code\", against better knowledge.\n\nIn the financial year of 2013-14, Rosslyn Chapel recorded 144,823 visitors, the highest number since 2007-08, when (at the height of popular interest induced by \"The Da Vinci Code\"), the number of visitors was close to 159,000.\n\nThe chapel became the subject of speculation regarding its supposed connection with the Knights Templar or Freemasonry beginning in the 1980s. This part of its history was referenced in the DC Comics storyline \"Batman: Scottish Connection\", in which the hero Batman becomes caught up in an old vendetta between two Scottish clans during a visit to Scotland, this mystery including the discovery of an ancient treasure trove hidden in Rosslyn.\n\nThe topic entered mainstream pop culture with Dan Brown's \"The Da Vinci Code\" (2003), reinforced by the subsequent film of the same name (2006),\nNumerous books were published after 2003 to cater to the popular interest in supposed connections between Rosslyn Chapel, Freemasonry, the Templars and the Holy Grail generated by Brown's novel.\n\nThe chapel, built 150 years after the dissolution of the Knights Templar, supposedly has many Templar symbols, such as the \"Two riders on a single horse\" that appear on the Seal of the Knights Templar.\nWilliam Sinclair 3rd Earl of Orkney, Baron of Roslin and 1st Earl of Caithness, claimed by novelists to be a hereditary Grand Master of the Scottish stonemasons, built Rosslyn Chapel. A later William Sinclair of Roslin became the first Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Scotland and, subsequently, several other members of the Sinclair family have held this position.\n\nRobert L. D. Cooper, curator of the Grand Lodge of Scotland Museum and Library, in 2003 published a 12th edition of the 1892 \"Illustrated Guide to Rosslyn Chapel\" with the intention of countering the \"nonsense published about Rosslyn Chapel over the last 15 years or so\". Cooper in 2006 also published \"Rosslyn Hoax?\" in which he actively debunks this type of speculation at length and in great detail. An example is the comparison of the Rosslyn myth of the Apprentice Pillar with that of the \"allegorical\" references to Hiram Abiff in Masonic ritual, and in the process he debunks any similarities between the two. A minute comparison between the Rosslyn Myth and the Masonic allegory can be found in a detailed tabular form in The Rosslyn Hoax?\n\nCooper further debunks other claims of a connection between carvings within Rosslyn Chapel and Scottish Freemasonry. The suggestion that the Apprentice Pillar is a physical reference to the Entered Apprentice degree of Scottish Freemasonry logically led to the conclusion that the other two pillars (in line south to north with the so-called Apprentice Pillar) represented the Fellow of Craft degree (middle pillar) and the Master Mason's degree (north pillar). This association of three pillars in the east part of Rosslyn Chapel with the three degrees of Scottish Freemasonry is impossible, given the fact that (according to Cooper) the third degree of Freemasonry was invented c.1720 - almost 300 years after Rosslyn Chapel was founded.\nThe claim that the layout of Rosslyn Chapel echoes that of Solomon's Temple has been analysed by Mark Oxbrow and Ian Robertson in their book, \"Rosslyn and the Grail\":\nRosslyn Chapel bears no more resemblance to Solomon's or Herod's Temple than a house brick does to a paperback book. If you superimpose the floor plans of Rosslyn Chapel and either Solomon's or Herod's Temple, you will actually find that they are not even remotely similar. Writers admit that the chapel is far smaller than either of the temples. They freely scale the plans up or down in an attempt to fit them together. What they actually find are no significant similarities at all. [...] If you superimpose the floor plans of Rosslyn Chapel and the East Quire of Glasgow Cathedral you will find a startling match: the four walls of both buildings fit precisely. The East Quire of Glasgow is larger than Rosslyn, but the designs of these two mediaeval Scottish buildings are virtually identical. They both have the same number of windows and the same number of pillars in the same configuration. [...] The similarity between Rosslyn Chapel and Glasgow's East Quire is well established. Andrew Kemp noted that 'the entire plan of this Chapel corresponds to a large extent with the choir of Glasgow Cathedral' as far back as 1877 in the Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries. Many alternative history writers are well aware of this but fail to mention it in their books.\n\nAs to a possible connection between the St. Clairs and the Knights Templar, the family testified against the Templars when that Order was put on trial in Edinburgh in 1309. Historian Dr. Louise Yeoman, along with other mediaeval scholars, says the Knights Templar connection is false, and points out that Rosslyn Chapel was built by William Sinclair so that Mass could be said for the souls of his family.\n\nIt is also claimed that other carvings in the chapel reflect Masonic imagery, such as the way that hands are placed in various figures. One carving may show a blindfolded man being led forward with a noose around his neck — similar to the way a candidate is prepared for initiation into Freemasonry. The carving has been eroded by time and pollution and is difficult to make out clearly. The chapel was built in the 15th century, and the earliest records of Freemasonic lodges date back only to the late 16th and early 17th centuries. A more likely explanation however is that the Masonic imagery was added at a later date. This may have taken place in the 1860s when James St Clair-Erskine, 3rd Earl of Rosslyn instructed Edinburgh architect David Bryce, a known Freemason, to undertake restoration work on areas of the church including many of the carvings.\n\nAlternative histories involving Rosslyn Chapel and the Sinclairs have been published by Andrew Sinclair and Tim Wallace-Murphy arguing links with the Knights Templar and the supposed descendants of Jesus Christ. The books in particular by Tim Wallace-Murphy and Marilyn Hopkins \"Rex Deus: The True Mystery of Rennes-le-Château And The Dynasty of Jesus (2000)\" and \"Custodians Of Truth: The Continuance Of Rex Deus\" (2005) have focused on the hypothetical Jesus bloodline with the Sinclairs and Rosslyn Chapel.\n\nOn the ABC documentary \"Jesus, Mary and Da Vinci\", aired on 3 November 2003, Niven Sinclair hinted that the descendants of Jesus Christ existed within the Sinclair families. These alternative histories are relatively modern - not dating back before the early 1990s. The precursor to these Rosslyn theories is the 1982 book \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\" (retitled \"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\" in the United States) by Michael Baigent, Richard Leigh and Henry Lincoln that introduced the theory of the Jesus bloodline in relation to the Priory of Sion hoax - the main protagonist of which was Pierre Plantard, who for a time adopted the name Pierre Plantard de Saint-Clair.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17731362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17731362", "title": "Seppo Hentilä", "text": "Seppo Hentilä\n\nSeppo Juhani Hentilä (10 April 1948 in Oulu), is a Finnish historian.\n\nHentilä was 1980–98 docent in political history at Helsinki University and became 1998 professor in the subject of matter. He has studied the DDR-Finnish relations and Finnish athletics history. Amongst his productions can be found \"Suomen työläisurheilun historia\" (3 parts, 1982–87), \"Kaksi Saksaa ja Suomi\" (2003) and several academic textbooks.\n\nIn 2007 to 2008 Hentilä was a visiting professor in the Berlin's Humboldt University. Hentilä has also written about the Swedish working class movement and socialdemocracy: \"Den svenska arbetarklassen och reformismens genombrott inom SAP före 1914: arbetarklassens ställning, strategi och ideologi\" (1979). This study is also translated to English.\n\n"}
{"id": "27760975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27760975", "title": "Servilius Nonianus", "text": "Servilius Nonianus\n\nMarcus Servilius Nonianus (died in 59AD) was a Roman senator, best known as a historian. He was ordinary consul in 35 as the colleague of Gaius Cestius Gallus. Tacitus described Servilius Nonianus as a man of great eloquence and good-nature. He wrote a history of Rome which is considered the major contribution on the topic between the works of Livy and Tacitus, and which was much referred to by later historians; this history has since been lost. A number of anecdotes regarding him survive and help to give an understanding of Roman life in the first century.\n\nNonianus was descended from Gaius Servilius Geminus the praetor, who had renounced his Patrician status. His father was Marcus Servilius, consul in AD 3 and his mother the daughter of the Nonius, whom Mark Antony proscribed over the possession of a gem. He was proconsular governor of Africa in 46–47.\n\nPliny the Elder recounts several anecdotes concerning Nonianus. One was that he was terribly worried about losing his sight and to prevent this, Nonianus wore a lucky charm around his neck consisting of the two Greek letters alpha and rho. Pliny reports that the charm worked. Another anecdote was that his daughter was cured of an illness with goats' milk, as advised by the family doctor Servilius Democrates. The poet Persius revered Nonianus like a father, according to the historian Ronald Syme.\n\nNonianus married Considia; their daughter Servilia Considia married the senator Quintus Marcius Barea Soranus. This marriage and the admiration Persius had for him, led Syme to suspect Nonianus was part of the Stoic circle of the Principate. Tacitus dates the death of Servilius Nonianus to 59, contrasting his elegant life to another senator who died that year, Domitius Afer, who possessed the same genius yet was a provincial.\n\nServilius Nonianus wrote a book on the history of Rome but the work is not extant. Even its title is unknown. According to Tacitus and Quintilian this work was considered a very important reference book on Roman history, especially for those historians who belonged to the senatorial party. It is considered to be the leading Roman history between the works of Livy and Tacitus.\n\nQuintilian writes that Servilius Nonianus used publicly to read his own work, \"recitationes\". Several scholars have suggested Tacitus drew on Servilius Nonianus for his history of the first Imperial period, along with the historian Aufidius Bassus. The period covered by Nonianus' history is unknown. It is considered probable that Nonianus also covered the reign of the emperor Tiberius.\n\nPliny the Younger records the anecdote that during one of the public \"recitationes\" of Nonianus, the emperor Claudius, who was strolling nearby, was so attracted by the applause that he asked who was reading, and joined the audience.\n\n"}
{"id": "15376171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15376171", "title": "Shad (prince)", "text": "Shad (prince)\n\nShad (Old Turkic: , šad) was a state office in the early Central Asian Turkic states, roughly equivalent to governor. \"Shad\" could only be an appointee over a vassal tribe, where he represented interests of the preeminent Kagan. The name of this tribe was included in his title. For example, Tardu-shad could only be a Shad over Tardu tribe. The title carried autonomy in different degrees, and its links with the central authority of kagan varied from economical and political subordination to superficial political deference.\n\nThe position of Shad was traditionally given to the member of a ruling (Ashina) clan. Frequently, Shad was a blood prince, a representative of the next generation. Mahmud Kashgari defined the title Shad as an heir apparent a step above Yabgu. In the early Turkic Turgesh Kaganate, Shad was a ruler of the east wing, and\nYabgu was a ruler of the west wing of the state, both directly subordinated to the Kagan. According to Movses Kagankatvatsi, Böri Shad was a 7th-century Western Turkic Khaganate prince and an \"ishad\", or a ruler of a principality, a nephew of Tong Yabgu Kagan, and a son of \"Moho shad\", who may have been a Yabgu of the Khazars. Later, after a split of Western Turkic Kaganate, the splinter western part was headed by \"Yukuk-shad\" of the royal Ashina clan, who became a Kagan of the \"western surnames\", with a throne name Yelbi-Turuk-Kagan.\n\nWith weakening of centralized states, the Shads were gaining more sovereignty, and historical accounts record independent states with \"Shad\" as a supreme ruler. The title \"Shad\" left prominent marks in the Asian toponymy, and on many mints of Middle Asia Late Antique and Early Middle Age coins, like Shad Bagh in northern Lahore in Punjab, Pakistan, and early Bukhara, Uzbekistan coins.\n\nA name of one Shad in the waning days of the Eastern Turkic Kaganate is interpreted as an evidence of an early penetration of the Sunni branch of Islam to the Central Asian people. When the last Kagan Illig Qaghan suffered a defeat from the Tang (Tuoba/Tabgach) empire in 630 CE, the Chinese annals recorded that after that surrendered his last loyal prince, \"Yshbara Shunishi-Shad\", and the Eastern Türkic Kaganate ceased to exist. Yshbara Shunishi-Shad was a head of the Basmyl tribe, and as indicated by his name, he was a Sunni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12075369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12075369", "title": "Stuart London", "text": "Stuart London\n\nThis article covers the history of London during the Stuart period from 1603 to 1714.\n\nThe preparations for the coronation of King James I were interrupted by a severe plague epidemic, which may have killed over thirty thousand people, and threats of assassination; in 1605 the infamous Gunpowder plot occurred, leading to a backlash against Catholics. \n\nThe Lord Mayor's Show, which had been discontinued for some years, was revived by order of the king in 1609. The dissolved monastery of the Charterhouse, which had been bought and sold by the courtiers several times, was purchased by Thomas Sutton for £13,000. The new hospital, chapel, and schoolhouse were begun in 1611. Charterhouse School was to be one of the principal public schools in London until it moved to Surrey in the Victorian era, and the site is still used as a medical school.\n\nCharles I ascended to the throne in 1625. During his reign aristocrats began to inhabit the West End in large numbers. In addition to those who had specific business at court, increasing numbers of country landowners and their families lived in London for part of the year simply for the social life. This was the beginning of the \"London season\". Lincoln's Inn Fields, was built about 1629. The piazza of Covent Garden, designed by England's first classically trained architect Inigo Jones followed in about 1632. The neighbouring streets were built shortly afterwards, and the names of Henrietta, Charles, James, King and York Streets were given after members of the royal family. \nIn January 1642 five members of parliament whom the King wished to arrest were granted refuge in the City. In August of the same year King Charles I raised his banner at Nottingham, and during the English Civil War London took the side of the parliament. Initially the king had the upper hand in military terms and in November he won the Battle of Brentford a few miles to the west of London. \n\nThe City organised a new makeshift army and Charles hesitated and retreated. Subsequently, an extensive system of fortifications was built to protect London from a renewed attack by the Royalists. This comprised a strong earthen rampart, enhanced with bastions and redoubts. It was well beyond the City walls and encompassed the whole urban area, including Westminster and Southwark. London was not seriously threatened by the royalists again, and the financial resources of the City made an important contribution to the parliamentarians victory in the war.\n\nThe civil war ended in defeat for the Royalists. The execution of King Charles on 30 January 1649, heralded Oliver Cromwell's short lived Commonwealth. \n\nIn contrast to the common view of the period as being one of Puritan repression. Some music and opera flourished in London under Cromwell's patronage. In 1656 \"The Siege of Rhodes\" the first true English opera was performed in London.\n\nIn 1655 Cromwell allowed Jews to return to London, ending a 365-year banishment. They built their first Synagogue in 1657 at Creechurch Lane.\n\nFollowing Cromwell's death in 1658. His son Richard took over, but was unable to command the support of parliament and army. The Commonwealth quickly collapsed, and in 1660 the monarchy was restored under Charles II.\n\nThe unsanitary and overcrowded City of London has suffered from the numerous outbreaks of the plague many times over the centuries, but in Britain it is the last major outbreak which is remembered as the \"Great Plague\" It occurred in 1665 and 1666 and killed around 60,000 people, which was one fifth of the population. Samuel Pepys chronicled the epidemic in his diary. On 4 September 1665 he wrote \"\"I have stayed in the city till above 7400 died in one week, and of them about 6000 of the plague, and little noise heard day or night but tolling of bells.\" \"\n\nThe Great Plague was immediately followed by another catastrophe, albeit one which helped to put an end to the plague. On the Sunday, 2 September 1666 the Great Fire of London broke out at one o'clock in the morning at a house in Pudding Lane in the southern part of the City. Fanned by an eastern wind the fire spread, and efforts to arrest it by pulling down houses to make firebreaks were disorganised to begin with. On Tuesday night the wind fell somewhat, and on Wednesday the fire slackened. On Thursday it was extinguished, but on the evening of that day the flames again burst forth at the Temple. Some houses were at once blown up by gunpowder, and thus the fire was finally mastered. The Monument was built to commemorate the fire: for over a century and a half it bore an inscription attributing the conflagration to a \"popish frenzy\".\n\nThe fire destroyed about 60% of the City, including Old St Paul's Cathedral, 87 parish churches, 44 livery company halls and the Royal Exchange. However the number of lives lost was surprisingly small; it is believed to have been 16 at most. Arguably, the fire resulted in a better visual aesthetic of the city. Within a few days of the fire, three plans were presented to the king for the rebuilding of the city, by Christopher Wren, John Evelyn and Robert Hooke. Wren proposed to build main thoroughfares north and south, and east and west, to insulate all the churches in conspicuous positions, to form the most public places into large piazzas, to unite the halls of the 12 chief livery companies into one regular square annexed to the Guildhall, and to make a fine quay on the bank of the river from Blackfriars to the Tower of London. Wren wished to build the new streets straight and in three standard widths of thirty, sixty and ninety feet. Evelyn's plan differed from Wren's chiefly in proposing a street from the church of St Dunstan's in the East to the St Paul's, and in having no quay or terrace along the river. These plans were not implemented, and the rebuilt city generally followed the streetplan of the old one, and most of it has survived into the 21st century.\n\nNonetheless, the new City was different from the old one. Many aristocratic residents never returned, preferring to take new houses in the West End, where fashionable new districts such as St. James's were built close to the main royal residence, which was Whitehall Palace until it was destroyed by fire in the 1690s, and thereafter St. James's Palace. The rural lane of Piccadilly sprouted courtiers mansions such as Burlington House. Thus the separation between the middle class mercantile City of London, and the aristocratic world of the court in Westminster became complete. In the City itself there was a move from wooden buildings to stone and brick construction to reduce the risk of fire. The Act of Parliament \"for rebuilding the city of London\" stated \"building with brick [is] not only more comely and durable, but also more safe against future perils of fire\". From then on only doorcases, window-frames and shop fronts were allowed to be made of wood.\n\nChristopher Wren's plan for a new model London came to nothing, but he was appointed to rebuild the ruined parish churches and to replace St Paul's Cathedral. His domed baroque cathedral was the primary symbol of London for at least a century and a half. As city surveyor, Robert Hooke oversaw the reconstruction of the City's houses. The East End, that is the area immediately to the east of the city walls, also became heavily populated in the decades after the Great Fire. London's docks began to extend downstream, attracting many working people who worked on the docks themselves and in the processing and distributive trades. These people lived in Whitechapel, Wapping, Stepney and Limehouse, generally in slum conditions.\n\nLondon's expansion beyond the boundaries of the City was decisively established in the 17th century. In the opening years of that century the immediate environs of the City, with the principal exception of the aristocratic residences in the direction of Westminster, were still considered insalubrious. Immediately to the north was Moorfields, which had recently been drained and laid out in walks, but it was frequented by beggars and travellers, who crossed it in order to get into London, tried not to linger. Adjoining Moorfields were Finsbury Fields, a favourite practising ground for the archers. Mile End, then a common on the Great Eastern Road, was famous as a rendezvous for the troops.\n\nIn the winter of 1683–4 a frost fair was held on the Thames. The frost, which began about seven weeks before Christmas and continued for six weeks after, was the greatest on record. The Revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685, led to a large migration on Huguenots to London. They established a silk industry at Spitalfields.\n\nThe general meeting-place of Londoners in the day-time was the nave of Old St. Paul's Cathedral. Merchants conducted business in the aisles, and used the font as a counter upon whichto make their payments; lawyers received clients at their particular pillars; and the unemployed looked for work. St Paul's Churchyard was the centre of the book trade and Fleet Street was a centre of public entertainment. Under James I the theatre, which established itself so firmly in the latter years of Elizabeth, grew further in popularity. The performances at the public theatres were complemented by elaborate masques at the royal court and at the inns of court. \n\nAt this time the City of London was becoming the world's leading financial centre, superseding Amsterdam in primacy. The Bank of England was founded in 1694, and the British East India Company was expanding its influence. Lloyd's of London also began to operate in the late 17th century. In 1700 London handled 80% of England's imports, 69% of its exports and 86% of its re-exports. Many of the goods were luxuries from the Americas and Asia such as silk, sugar, tea and tobacco. The last figure emphasises London's role as an entrepot: while it had many craftsmen in the 17th century, and would later acquire some large factories, its economic prominence was never based primarily on industry. Instead it was a great trading and redistribution centre. Goods were brought to London by England's increasingly dominant merchant navy, not only to satisfy domestic demand, but also for re-export throughout Europe and beyond.\n\nWilliam III cared little for London, the smoke of which gave him asthma, and after the first fire at Whitehall Palace (1691) he purchased Nottingham House and transformed it into Kensington Palace. Kensington was then an insignificant village, but the arrival of the court soon caused it to grow in importance. The palace was rarely favoured by future monarchs, but its construction was another step in the expansion of the bounds of London. During the same reign Greenwich Hospital, then well outside the boundary of London, but now comfortably inside it, was begun; it was the naval complement to the Chelsea Hospital for former soldiers, which has been founded in 1681. During the reign of Queen Anne an act was passed authorising the building of 50 new churches to serve the greatly increased population living outside the boundaries of the City of London.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25955883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25955883", "title": "Sverre Kjeldstadli", "text": "Sverre Kjeldstadli\n\nSverre Arnljot Breste Kjeldstadli (14 February 1916 – 28 March 1961) was a Norwegian historian.\n\nDuring World War II he was a courier for Milorg. His dr.philos. thesis from 1959, \"Hjemmestyrkene. Hovedtrekk av den militære motstanden under okkupasjonen\", has been an inspiration for later works by other historians.\n\nHe was a son of trade unionist Lars Kjeldstadli (1870–1934) and his wife Beate, (born Lotsberg, (1880–1965). He was a son-in-law of Daniel Grini, and together with Ellen Helvig Grini (1918–2001) he had the son, historian Knut Kjeldstadli. He died in March 1961 and was buried in Ullern.\n"}
{"id": "31375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31375", "title": "The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire", "text": "The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\n\nThe History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is a six-volume work by the English historian Edward Gibbon. It traces Western civilization (as well as the Islamic and Mongolian conquests) from the height of the Roman Empire to the fall of Byzantium. Volume I was published in 1776 and went through six printings. Volumes II and III were published in 1781; volumes IV, V, and VI in 1788–1789.\n\nThe six volumes cover the history, from 98 to 1590, of the Roman Empire, the history of early Christianity and then of the Roman State Church, and the history of Europe, and discusses the decline of the Roman Empire among other things.\n\nGibbon’s work remains a great literary achievement and a very readable introduction to the period, but considerable progress has since been made in history and archaeology, and his interpretations no longer represent current academic knowledge or thought. In \"The World of Late Antiquity\" (1971), Peter Brown offers an alternative interpretation of the period between the second and eighth centuries CE, and \"Framing the Early Middle Ages\" (2005) by Christopher Wickham presents hitherto unavailable evidence from both documentary and archaeological sources.\n\nGibbon offers an explanation for the fall of the Roman Empire, a task made difficult by a lack of comprehensive written sources, though he was not the only historian to attempt it.\n\nAccording to Gibbon, the Roman Empire succumbed to barbarian invasions in large part due to the gradual loss of civic virtue among its citizens. \nHe began an ongoing controversy about the role of Christianity, but he gave great weight to other causes of internal decline and to attacks from outside the Empire. \n\nLike other Enlightenment thinkers and British citizens of the age steeped in institutional anti-Catholicism, Gibbon held in contempt the Middle Ages as a priest-ridden, superstitious Dark Age. It was not until his own era, the \"Age of Reason\", with its emphasis on rational thought, it was believed, that human history could resume its progress.\n\nGibbon's tone was detached, dispassionate, and yet critical. He can lapse into moralisation and aphorism:\n\nGibbon provides the reader with a glimpse of his thought process with extensive notes along the body of the text, a precursor to the modern use of footnotes. Gibbon's footnotes are famous for their idiosyncratic and often humorous style, and have been called \"Gibbon's table talk.\" They provide an entertaining moral commentary on both ancient Rome and 18th century Great Britain. This technique enabled Gibbon to compare ancient Rome to his own contemporary world. Gibbon's work advocates a rationalist and progressive view of history.\n\nGibbon's citations provide in-depth detail regarding his use of sources for his work, which included documents dating back to ancient Rome. The detail within his asides and his care in noting the importance of each document is a precursor to modern-day historical footnoting methodology.\n\nThe work is notable for its erratic but exhaustively documented notes and research. John Bury, following him 113 years later with his own \"History of the Later Roman Empire\", commended the depth and accuracy of Gibbon's work. Unusually for 18th century historians, Gibbon was not content with second-hand accounts when primary sources were accessible. \"I have always endeavoured\", Gibbon wrote, \"to draw from the fountain-head; that my curiosity, as well as a sense of duty, has always urged me to study the originals; and that, if they have sometimes eluded my search, I have carefully marked the secondary evidence, on whose faith a passage or a fact were reduced to depend.\" The \"Decline and Fall\" is a literary monument and a massive step forward in historical method.\n\nNumerous tracts were published criticising his work. In response, Gibbon defended his work with the 1779 publication of, \"A Vindication ... of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\". His remarks on Christianity aroused particularly vigorous attacks, but in the mid-twentieth century, at least one author claimed that \"church historians allow the substantial justness of [Gibbon's] main positions.\"\n\nGibbon's comments on the Quran and Muhammad reflected his view of the secular origin of the text. He outlined in chapter 33 the widespread tale of the Seven Sleepers, and remarked \"This popular tale, which Mahomet might learn when he drove his camels to the fairs of Syria, is introduced, as a divine revelation, into the Quran.\" His presentation of Muhammad's life again reflected his secular approach: \"in his private conduct, Mahomet indulged the appetites of a man, and abused the claims of a prophet. A special revelation dispensed him from the laws which he had imposed on his nation: the female sex, without reserve, was abandoned to his desires; and this singular prerogative excited the envy, rather than the scandal, the veneration, rather than the envy, of the devout Mussulmans.\".\n\nGibbon described the Jews as \"a race of fanatics, whose dire and credulous superstition seemed to render them the implacable enemies not only of the Roman government, but also of humankind\".\n\nBecause of his view Gibbon has been charged with antisemitism.\n\nGibbon challenged Church history by estimating far smaller numbers of Christian martyrs than had been traditionally accepted. The Church's version of its early history had rarely been questioned before. Gibbon, however, knew that modern Church writings were secondary sources, and he shunned them in favor of primary sources.\n\nHistorian S.P. Foster says that Gibbon:\n\nVolume I was originally published in sections, as was common for large works at the time. The first two were well received and widely praised. The last quarto in Volume I, especially Chapters XV and XVI, was highly controversial, and Gibbon was attacked as a \"paganist\". Gibbon thought that Christianity had hastened the Fall, but also ameliorated the results:\n\nVoltaire was deemed to have influenced Gibbon's claim that Christianity was a contributor to the fall of the Roman Empire. As one pro-Christian commenter put it in 1840:\n\nGibbon wrote:\n\nOthers such as John Julius Norwich, despite their admiration for his furthering of historical methodology, consider Gibbon's hostile views on the Byzantine Empire flawed and blame him somewhat for the lack of interest shown in the subject throughout the 19th and early 20th centuries. This view might well be admitted by Gibbon himself: \"But it is not my intention to expatiate with the same minuteness on the whole series of the Byzantine history.\" However the Russian historian George Ostrogorsky writes, \"Gibbon and Lebeau were genuine historians—and Gibbon a very great one—and their works, in spite of factual inadequacy, rank high for their presentation of their material.\"\n\nGibbon's initial plan was to write a history \"\"of the decline and fall of the \"city\" of Rome\"\", and only later expanded his scope to the whole Roman Empire: If I prosecute this \"History\", I shall not be unmindful of the decline and fall of the \"city\" of Rome; an interesting object, to which my plan was originally confined.\n\nAlthough he published other books, Gibbon devoted much of his life to this one work (1772–1789). His autobiography \"Memoirs of My Life and Writings\" is devoted largely to his reflections on how the book virtually \"became\" his life. He compared the publication of each succeeding volume to a newborn child.\n\nGibbon continued to revise and change his work even after publication. The complexities of the problem are addressed in Womersley's introduction and appendices to his complete edition.\n\n\nMany writers have used variations on the series title (including using \"Rise and Fall\" in place of \"Decline and Fall\"), especially when dealing with large nations or empires. Piers Brendon notes that Gibbon's work, \"became the essential guide for Britons anxious to plot their own imperial trajectory. They found the key to understanding the British Empire in the ruins of Rome.\"\n\nand in film:\n\nand in television:\n\nThe title and author are also cited in Noël Coward's comedic poem \"I Went to a Marvellous Party\". And in the poem \"The Foundation of Science Fiction Success\", Isaac Asimov acknowledged that his Foundation series – an epic tale of the fall and rebuilding of a galactic empire – was written \"with a tiny bit of cribbin' / from the works of Edward Gibbon\".\n\nIn 1995, an established journal of classical scholarship, \"Classics Ireland\", published punk musician's Iggy Pop's reflections on the applicability of \"The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" to the modern world in a short article, \"Caesar Lives\", (vol. 2, 1995) in which he notedAmerica is Rome. Of course, why shouldn't it be? We are all Roman children, for better or worse ... I learn much about the way our society really works, because the system-origins – military, religious, political, colonial, agricultural, financial – are all there to be scrutinised in their infancy. I have gained perspective.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51409243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51409243", "title": "The Interlude of the Student and the Girl", "text": "The Interlude of the Student and the Girl\n\nThe Interlude of the Student and the Girl () is one of the earliest known secular plays in English, first performed c. 1300. The text is written in vernacular English, in an East Midlands dialect that suggests either Lincoln or Beverley as its origin, although its title is given in Latin. The name of its playwright is unknown. Only two scenes, with a total of 84 lines of verse in rhyming couplets, are extant and survive in a manuscript held by the British Museum, dated to either the late twelfth or very early thirteenth century. Glynne Wickham provides both the original text and a rendering in modern English in his \"English Moral Interludes\" (1976). In tone and form, the interlude seems to be the closest play in English to the contemporaneous French farces, such as \"The Boy and the Blind Man\", and is related to later English farcical plays, such as the anonymous \"Calisto and Melibea\" (published c. 1525) and John Heywood's \"The Foure PP\" (c. 1530). It was most likely performed by itinerant players, possibly making use of a performing dog. In \"Early English Stages\" (1981), Wickham points to the existence of this play as evidence that the old-fashioned view that comedy began in England with \"Gammer Gurton's Needle\" and \"Ralph Roister Doister\" in the 1550s is mistaken, ignoring as it does a rich tradition of medieval comic drama. He argues that the play's \"command of dramatic action and of comic mood and method is so deft as to make it well-nigh unbelievable\" that it was the first of its kind in England. \n\nA student tries to woo a girl called Molly. Having confirmed that neither her father nor mother are at home, he declares his love for her: \"I love you more than my life\", he insists. She rejects him, complaining of the deceitfulness of students: \"For many a good woman have they brought to shame!\" He seeks the help of an old woman, Mother Eloise. He laments that he would rather die than live without Molly. He offers the old woman substantial financial rewards if she would agree to act as his go-between and reconcile him with the girl. The old woman becomes defensive and insists that whoever advised him to seek out her assistance has lied, for she is a god-fearing woman who would never involve herself in such matters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062048", "title": "The Isle of Dogs (play)", "text": "The Isle of Dogs (play)\n\nThe Isle of Dogs is a play by Thomas Nashe and Ben Jonson which was performed in 1597. It was immediately suppressed, and no copy of it is known to exist.\n\nThe play was performed, probably by Pembroke's Men, at the Swan Theatre in Bankside in July or August of 1597. A satirical comedy, it was reported to the authorities as a \"lewd plaie\" full of seditious and \"slanderous matter\". While extant records do not indicate what gave offence, a reference in \"The Returne from Parnassus (II)\" suggests that the Queen herself was satirised. Other evidence suggests that Henry Brooke, 11th Baron Cobham may have been the target.\n\nThe Isle of Dogs is a location in London on the opposite bank of the Thames to Greenwich, home of a royal palace, Placentia, where indeed the Privy Council met. It was also believed to be where the queen kennelled her dogs, hence the name. David Riggs suggests that the satire might have been related to portrayal of the queen's councillors as lapdogs. However, the title alone does not indicate the play's content, since this area was also known as an unhealthy swamp where river sewage would accumulate. The Isle is also mentioned in \"Eastward Hoe\" (1605), another play for which Jonson was arrested. Nashe also referred to the location in \"Summer's Last Will and Testament\": \"Here's a coyle about dogges without wit. If I had thought the ship of fooles would have stayed to take in fresh water at the Ile of dogges I would have furnished it with a whole kennel of collections to the purpose.\"\n\nWhatever the cause, Richard Topcliffe informed Robert Cecil, who raised the issue to the Privy Council. Three of the players (Gabriel Spenser, Robert Shaa, and Ben Jonson) were arrested and sent to Marshalsea Prison. Nashe's home was raided (he was then at Great Yarmouth) and his papers seized, but he escaped imprisonment. He later wrote that he had given birth to a monster — \"it was no sooner borne but I was glad to runne from it.\" Nashe was later to call it \"an imperfit Embrion of my idle houres\" and claimed to have written only the introduction and first act. For his part, Jonson recalled that he said nothing but \"yes and no\". Authorities placed two informers (Robert Poley and someone surnamed Parrot) with him; those two are referred to in his Epigram 59, \"Of Spies\".\n\nAfter this burst of repression, royal authorities appear to have let the matter drop without incident. The report of the initial arrest says that \"the rest of the players or actors in that matter shall be apprehended\", but no one else ever was. Shaa and Spenser were released quickly, and even Jonson was out of jail by early in October. Pembroke's Men were in action again, as were the other companies, before winter of that year. The only party permanently hurt was the Swan's impresario Francis Langley, who alone among the play's producers was not able to obtain relicensing. Langley had apparently run afoul of the Privy Council on an unrelated matter involving a large Portuguese diamond that Langley had fenced, or planned to fence.\n\nThe suppression of \"Isle of Dogs\" has long been understood as a significant episode in the complex relations of city, court, and theatre-worlds; its precise significance, however, is difficult to determine. Chambers, while noting Langley's diamond involvement, viewed the play as related to the Privy Council's 28 July order prohibiting acting and ordering that the theatres be \"plucked down\"; in this view, the leniency shown to the companies later in the year reflects the transient nature of the offence. Others, among them William Ingram, have questioned this chronology. The 28 July order does not mention the play; it was written in response to one of the city authorities' periodic pleas for an end to the theatres. The Council issued specific orders against the play in the next month. In this light, Pembroke's men may have made their offence worse by performing the play (wittingly or not) after the date of prohibition. Moreover, Cecil's anger over the stolen diamond may suggest that Langley was the sole target of the July injunction. Andrew Gurr adds to this picture by noting the tendency of the Court to license two chief companies throughout the later Elizabethan and early Stuart periods.\n\nThe image of \"The Isle of Dogs\" conjured up a society ruined by envy, and Nashe also refers to Sirius the dog star in \"Summer's Last Will and Testament\" in relation to the dog days of July. Richard Lichfield was to taunt Nashe with this in his \"The Trimming of Thomas Nash gentleman\".\n\n"}
{"id": "282310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282310", "title": "Timeline of postal history", "text": "Timeline of postal history\n\nThis is a partial timeline of significant events in postal history, including dates and events relating to postage stamps.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10887872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10887872", "title": "Timeline of the 2007 Labour Party (UK) leadership election", "text": "Timeline of the 2007 Labour Party (UK) leadership election\n\nThe timeline for the British Labour Party leadership elections of 2007 is a timeline of events relating to the final years of Tony Blair's tenure as leader of the party and Prime Minister and the leadership elections to find replacements for him and Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, from his announcement that he would not lead Labour into a fourth General Election, concluding with Gordon Brown becoming Prime Minister.\n\nOn 30 September 2004, Tony Blair said he would not seek a fourth term as Prime Minister. Labour went on to win a third successive term at the May 2005 General Election with a decreased majority of 66, with Blair pledging to serve another full term.\n\nLabour and Blair subsequently had a surge in popularity at the time of terrorist bombings of London of July 2005, but by the Spring of 2006 were facing significant difficulties, most notably with scandals over failures by the Home Office to deport illegal immigrants and national campaigns by many political parties and think tanks saying that the United Kingdom was being overrun by immigrants. Worries over the potential increase of support for the British National Party during the 2006 Local Election campaign saw many Labour backbenchers and activists begin to demand a timetable from Blair for his departure, with many suggesting that it should be sooner rather than later.\n\nSpeculation over the timing of Blair's resignation had been amplified by a variety of politicians and newspapers making their own predictions. On 6 September 2006, \"The Sun\" reported that Blair would announce a timetable on 31 May 2007, with his replacement to take office by the end of July, and on 21 April The Guardian reported that the Brown camp were working on the assumption that Blair would announce the candidacy open on 9 May 2007, the day after power-sharing was due to start in Northern Ireland, following which the new Labour leader would be elected on 15 July 2007.\n\nTalk of David Miliband, Alan Milburn, Charles Clarke or John Reid as possible candidates was almost constant, although the former consistently denied any ambition to stand and the latter three refused to make a decision until there was a vacancy, ultimately declining in the week before Blair requested the NEC to find a successor.\n\nOn 15 July 2006, John McDonnell became the first Labour MP to announce an intention to stand for the leadership when Blair resigned.\n\nOn 5 September 2006, 17 Labour MPs signed a letter asking Blair to resign, accompanied by press reports alleging that up to 80 MPs were willing to sign. Later, senior party members stated that Tony Blair would not be Prime Minister at the next Labour Party conference and on 6 September, Tom Watson, one of the MPs who signed the letter, resigned as Junior Defence Minister along with seven Parliamentary Private Secretaries: Khalid Mahmood, Wayne David, Ian Lucas, Mark Tami, Chris Mole, David Wright and Iain Wright.\n\nOn 7 September, Jack Straw stated that he expected the Prime Minister to announce a timetable for his departure in May 2007 and Blair announced that the September 2006 Labour Party Conference and TUC Conference would be the last he would attend as party leader, despite which he was heckled at the Trades Union Congress on 12 September by members calling for him to resign immediately.\n\nOn 23 September, John Hutton became the first serving Cabinet Minister to say that Gordon Brown should face a serious challenger for Labour's leadership.\n\nAt the 2006 Labour Party Conference on 25 September, Brown announced his candidacy for the leadership, while three days later at the same conference John Prescott announced that he would stand down when Blair resigned as Prime Minister.\n\nDuring the debate on The Queen's Speech on 15 November, Blair said Conservative leader David Cameron was a \"flyweight against a heavyweight\" at the next general election, widely interpreted as implicit support for Brown\n\nIn January 2007, Brown outlined a number of his potential policies for Britain, mentioning citizen responsibility, education, efforts to solve problems in Africa and \"a new style of politics\" as his priorities. On 17 January, he spoke of \"a new world order\" while on a tour of India, and announced backing for India's bid for a place as a permanent member on the UN Security Council, and on many other international bodies. On 21 March, at 12:30 pm, he delivered the budget for the 2007–08 financial year, his last budget as Chancellor of the Exchequer.\n\nOn 16 January, Blair declared his intention to attend a summit of EU leaders as Prime Minister on 21–22 June 2007, and on 28 January stated that he was \"not finished yet\", and intended to complete the public sector reforms he had started, as well as leading Labour into local and devolved Elections on 3 May.\n\nOn 17 January, left-wing MP John McDonnell claimed that support for his leadership challenge had grown to within striking distance of the necessary backing. Michael Meacher, former Minister of State for the Environment in the DETR and its successor Defra announced that he was also seeking nominations from MPs and was considering standing. On 22 February he became the third Labour MP to announce his intention to stand for the leadership, although critics in the media expressed doubt over the extent of backbench support for either challenger at this point.\n\nOn 2 March, Jack Straw casually declined to run for the leadership after reports that someone had placed a £500 bet on his winning. On 20 March, the Labour Party NEC met to decide on rules for the upcoming leadership elections. On 13 April, Brown met US President George W. Bush for the first time, in a reportedly amicable discussion. On 15 April he encouraged rivals to \"bring it on\", in response to numerous reports suggesting that he would face three or four contenders for the leadership.\n\nDavid Miliband declared on 17 April that he would not be a candidate for the Labour leadership or Deputy leadership, and had not wavered in his position on that issue in the past three years. He subsequently announced his support for Brown in any leadership election. On 20 April, \"The Independent\" reported that many of Blair's closest allies were eager to unite the Blair and Brown camps and prevent any challenge to Gordon Brown from dividing the party. The next day, \"The Guardian\" reported that 217 MPs had already signed up to back Gordon Brown's leadership. There were also reports that even among the undecided, many were keen to prevent the progress of Michael Meacher and John McDonnell.\n\nOn 27 April, Michael Meacher and John McDonnell agreed that whichever had fewer supporters the day after Blair resigned as Labour leader would step aside, to allow the other a stronger chance to secure the support of the 45 MPs necessary to qualify for the ballot paper. On 1 May, Blair announced that he would announce his resignation as Labour leader the following week, following which he expected a campaign of about seven weeks. He also announced his support for Brown to succeed him as Labour leader and Prime Minister. On 3 May, the day after Blair and Brown's tenth anniversary as Prime Minister and Chancellor of the Exchequer, elections were held for English and Scottish Local Government, the Scottish Parliament and the Welsh Assembly. Labour faced mixed results, making gains in some areas, with slightly higher support than the previous year in the Local Elections and fairly minimal losses in the devolved elections, remaining the largest party in Wales and having one less seat than the SNP in Scotland, while losing many English council seats, mainly to the Conservative Party.\n\nOn 3 May, Charles Clarke changed his position towards Brown, praising him publicly and denying that he was poised to challenge for the Labour leadership. In an interview with \"The Times\" the following day, he claimed that he could get a sufficient number of nominations to stand for the Labour leadership, but that the Labour Party did not \"have the appetite\" for such a contest. John Reid and John Hutton also announced their support for Brown, Reid going on to announce that he would be stepping down as Home Secretary upon the departure of Blair and Prescott.\n\nWriting in the \"News of the World\" on 6 May, Blair said that while David Cameron had learned the tactics of opposition, Labour could still win the next General Election and that Brown had shown sound judgement in his steering of the economy, which was the way to win. On 9 May, in the last Prime Minister's Questions before Blair announced the vacancy for the Labour leadership, David Cameron described the Labour government as \"like The Living Dead\". Blair ignored Cameron's taunts regarding the possible chaos caused by interim arrangements for election of a new Labour leader and the upcoming resignation of John Reid from the government.\n\nOn 10 May Blair announced to the Sedgefield Labour Party that he would stand down as Prime Minister on 27 June 2007, and that he would be requesting Labour's NEC to seek a new party leader. Shortly afterwards, John Prescott announced that he would stand down as Deputy Prime Minister on the same day and that he had written to the NEC to announce his resignation as party Deputy Leader. Labour's NEC met on 13 May to finalise a timetable for the handover, confirming that Blair would remain leader until a new leader was elected, and giving any potential candidates three active Parliament days in which to submit their papers. Brown, Michael Meacher and John McDonnell held a joint policy debate in London.\n\nOn 10 May, John McDonnell and Michael Meacher delayed a decision over which one should run, describing their respective levels of support as \"too close to call\". Interviewed by \"Red Pepper\", John McDonnell stated that he could and would not support Michael Meacher, since he had voted with New Labour on many issues, and that it was a matter of them sitting down together to compare how many votes they had and decide a way forward. On 14 May Michael Meacher declared that he would not be a candidate in the Labour leadership election, since he did not have enough MPs support to get onto the ballot paper, going on to say he would be backing John McDonnell to get a left-wing candidate onto the ballot paper, though the possibility of this was still in doubt.\n\nOn 10 May, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Peter Hain and Solicitor General Harriet Harman both announced that they had more than the minimum necessary number of nominations to appear on the Ballot paper for the Deputy Leadership Election, claiming 47 and 44 nominations respectively.\n\nAs nominations opened on 15 May it became clear that Brown was well past the minimum requirement of nominations, with the support of around 282 MPs, while John McDonnell had only 27 nominations, still well short of the 45 required. In the Deputy Leadership Race, Harriet Harman, Hazel Blears, Peter Hain and Alan Johnson all had more than the minimum required nominations, with Jon Cruddas having 44 nominations and Hilary Benn 34.\n\nOn 16 May John McDonnell alleged that many of Brown's supporters were using wrecking tactics to ensure that the decision did not proceed to a ballot. Later that day Brown secured 308 nominations, to John McDonnell's 29; although nominations were to be open for another day there were insufficient undeclared MPs remaining for anyone except Gordon Brown to be on the ballot, meaning he need only attend hustings and wait to be declared leader by the NEC. At this stage John McDonnell conceded defeat. In the Deputy Leadership Race, Jon Cruddas and Hilary Benn secured the required nominations.\n\nNominations closed on 17 May, with Brown having secured 313 nominations compared to John McDonnell's 29. Harriet Harman (65 nominations), Hazel Blears (49 nominations), Peter Hain (51 nominations), Alan Johnson (73 nominations), Jon Cruddas (49 nominations) and Hilary Benn (47 nominations) all qualified to appear on the Deputy leadership ballot.\n\nAt the husting at the University of Warwick on 20 May, Brown was heckled regarding the 2003 War in Iraq. He replied by saying that although there had been mistakes, it had been the right thing to do. Candidates for the Deputy Leadership election were asked which factors they considered important to the next General Election. Jon Cruddas named the issue of insecurity at work; Hilary Benn said that more housing was needed; Peter Hain described inequality as \"the biggest challenge we face as a government\"; Alan Johnson focused on social mobility; Hazel Blears mentioned education and employment opportunities; Harriet Harman said that Labour needed to \"win back the trust and the confidence of the British people\" and emphasised the importance of policy implementation. Blears, Harman and Benn all focused on the importance of party unity.\n\nAt the Bradford husting on 27 May, Jan Wilson, leader of Sheffield City Council, told Gordon Brown that the shadow of Iraq hung over the party and that Brown had had an easy time on it during the leadership campaign. Brown said he was happy to discuss the decision to remove the Ba'athist regime, but that his priority now was to focus on the next steps, with numbers of UK troops decreasing and UK forces taking an \"overwatch role\".\n\nAt the BAME (black, Asian and minority ethnic) husting in Leicester on 30 May, Deputy Leadership candidates were split on the question of whether there should be all-ethnic minority shortlists; Hazel Blears, Jon Cruddas and Peter Hain all backed the idea, to increase numbers of Black and Asian MPs. Alan Johnson said that shortlists could reflect a need for more ethnic minority MPs, but that he was not sure that all-minority shortlists were the answer, and Hilary Benn said that he was not persuaded of the case for such shortlists either. Harriet Harman made no comment on the issue, except to say that there needed to be more MPs from ethnic minorities.\n\nOn 6 June, ballot papers were sent out to Labour MPs, Labour MEPs, Labour Party members and members of affiliated unions for the position of Deputy Leader of the Labour Party.\n\nAt the Cardiff husting on 9 June, Brown described the Conservatives as caught between \"what they think they should say\" and \"what they really believe\". He accused them of being obsessed with Grammar schools, and said that parts of the Conservative Party wanted to scrap the NHS. He associated himself with decisions taken over the war in Iraq again, saying again that although mistakes had been made it had been the right thing to do. He also pledged that if necessary he would find more money to prevent job losses at Remploy, a provider of jobs for the disabled, and that promises made at the G8 summit to tackle poverty in Africa would be kept.\n\nAt the Oxford Youth husting (for people under the age of 27) on 10 June, Gordon Brown said that Labour must modernise and reform again to further involve young people in decision making, including the use of online facilities such as MySpace. Hilary Benn was critical of Bob Geldof and defended the settlement of the recent G8 Summit in Germany, while Hazel Blears focused on anti-social behaviour. Peter Hain accused Home Secretary John Reid of \"fanning up\" the previous week's debate over possible introduction of new stop and search powers for police, saying \"I don't believe in macho posturing on law and order and terrorism\". Harriet Harman said that she felt the law needed changing to ensure that the government was informed if terrorist suspects en route to other countries faced the possibility of torture on arrival, and Jon Cruddas focused heavily on allegations of special rendition of terrorist suspects to Guantanamo Bay detention camp. Alan Johnson stated the need for testing in schools to assess how well schools and individual pupils were doing; Jon Cruddas agreed but said he felt that it had gone too far.\n\nThe Deputy Leadership Ballot closed at 17:00 UTC+1 on 22 June. Brown was declared leader at a special conference on 24 June, while in an election on the Alternative Vote system, Harriet Harman won the Deputy Leadership by 50.4% to Alan Johnson's 49.6% after preferences were re-distributed, Jon Cruddas coming narrowly third. Harman had been behind until the last round of redistributions.\n\nTony Blair tendered his resignation as Prime Minister to the Queen on 27 June 2007 and Gordon Brown was asked by the Queen to form a new government. Unlike Blair with John Prescott, Brown opted to keep his new deputy, Harriet Harman, out of the position of Deputy Prime Minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39460314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39460314", "title": "Tony Santiago", "text": "Tony Santiago\n\nAntonio Santiago Rodríguez (born March 9, 1950) — better known as Tony the Marine or as Tony Santiago — is a United States Marine veteran, writer, and military historian from New York City, New York, focused mostly on the military history of Puerto Rico and its service members.\n\nFor his work, Santiago was recognized by the 23rd Senate of Puerto Rico for being \"one of the main contributors of content related to Puerto Rico in the open online encyclopedia known as Wikipedia\". The Senate also recognized him as one of the main writers on subjects which relate to Puerto Rico, and an important historian of the Puerto Rican military experience. According to Phoebe Ayers, member of the Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation, this may be the first time that English Wikipedia has been mentioned in a parliamentary or congressional resolution of this type. She also stated that it's probably the first time that contributions to English Wikipedia have been cited in a formal governmental award, too.\n\nSantiago was born in New York City, New York to Joaquín Santiago and Hilda Rodríguez-Mattei, both of Puerto Rican origin. Santiago graduated from high school in New York City and after being accepted to Columbia University, Santiago chose to serve in the U.S. Marine Corps instead.\n\nSantiago served with the 2nd Battalion 9th Marines, 3rd Marine Division in the Vietnam War in the 81 MM Mortar, and later in the Military Police as well.\n\nWhile in the Marines (hence his nickname), Santiago perceived significant ethnic, racial, and national origin discrimination. In response to this, he formed an organization composed of American soldiers of Latino descent. The organization, named Latin Power in Unity, included soldiers of Puerto Rican, Mexican, Central American and other Latino backgrounds.\n\nSantiago also developed a close friendship with Leroy Reese who had formed a similar organization named \"Black Power\" for Black soldiers. Both men worked closely for the equal treatment of minorities and to improve relations between their members and the members of other ethnic groups in their company. An interview about Santiago’s experience in the military, collectively made by author Greg Boudonek and Santiago himself, was published in the book \"Puertorriquenos Who Served With Guts, Glory, and Honor: Fighting to Defend a Nation Not Completely Their Own\".\n\nUpon finishing his tour with the U.S. Marine Corps in 1975, Santiago enrolled at the Interamerican University in Bayamon, Puerto Rico. He graduated \"magna cum laude\" with a degree in Business Administration in 1979. In Puerto Rico, he met Milagros, the woman that would become his wife. They married in 1971 and had three children together.\n\nIn 1990, Santiago moved to Phoenix, Arizona, with his wife and children. At this point he reflected, \"the only role models and heroes for Latino children were El Zorro, the Cisco Kid and Speedy Gonzales and,\" he said, \"school textbooks failed to mention the many contributions that Latinos had made to the formation of our country [the United States].\"\n\nIn response, Santiago began publishing a series of short articles about the contributions that Puerto Ricans had made to the American society. He is the editor of the Puerto Rican Military History Channel of the monthly internet magazine \"El Boricua\", a staff writer in the internet magazine \"Somos Primos\" and the official historian of the Association of Naval Services Officers (ANSO).\n\nHis early published work focused on military history, but later he expanded his research and documentation to include many other facets of the Puerto Rican life experience.\n\nOne email received from a reader of his articles led to Santiago serving to bridge two families that had lost track of each other for many years. It happened in 2007, when Santiago united U.S. Army veteran William W. Kouts with the family of the late David M. Gonzalez. Gonzalez had sacrificed his life to save Kouts during World War II.\n\nOn April 2010, Santiago discovered and wrote about Lt. Augusto Rodriguez a Puerto Rican who served in the American Civil War. It was the first time that a link in the American Civil War was made between Puerto Rico and the United States. Rodriguez was thus the first known Puerto Rican veteran of the United States Armed Forces. The significance of this discovery is that, until then, it was believed that Puerto Ricans had not served in the United States military prior to World War I. Puerto Rico's Secretary of State, Kenneth D. McClintock, named Santiago \"Puerto Rico's foremost military historian.\"\n\nSantiago is among the people who were interviewed and who are featured in the documentary “On Two Fronts: Latinos & Vietnam”; directed and produced by Los Angeles-based filmmaker Mylene Moreno. The documentary, which aired on PBS in September 22, 2015, examines the Latino experience during the Vietnam War. He was interviewed, together with fellow veteran Oscar Urrea, by PBS \"Horizante\" host Jose Cardenas and Univision newscaster Jorge Valenzuela, where he expressed his personal experiences, prior to the showing of the documentary.\n\nIn addition to his military history research and writing, Santiago is also a free lance photojournalist for The Arizona Republic. He is also a member of the national steering committee of \"Borinqueneers Congressional Gold Medal Alliance,\" which sought the Congressional Gold Medal for Puerto Rico's 65th Infantry Regiment, and serves in the \"Latino Alliance Advisory Board.\"\n\nIn page 263 of the acknowledgments section of the book “War Against All Puerto Ricans, Revolution and Terror in America’s Colony” author Nelson Antonio Denis wrote the following: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4468597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4468597", "title": "Toy theater", "text": "Toy theater\n\nToy theater, also called paper theater and model theater (also spelt theatre, see spelling differences), is a form of miniature theater dating back to the early 19th century in Europe. Toy theaters were often printed on paperboard sheets and sold as kits at the concession stand of an opera house, playhouse, or vaudeville theater. Toy theaters were assembled at home and performed for family members and guests, sometimes with live musical accompaniment. Toy theater saw a drastic decline in popularity with a shift towards realism on the European stage in the late 19th century, and again with the arrival of television after World War II. Toy theater has seen a resurgence in recent years among many puppeteers, authors and filmmakers and there are numerous international toy theater festivals throughout the Americas and Europe.\n\nThe original toy theaters were mass-produced replicas of popular plays, sold as kits that people assembled at home, including stage, scenery, characters and costumes. They were printed on paperboard, available at English playhouses and commercial libraries for \"a penny plain or two pence coloured.\" Hobbyists often went to great pains to not only hand-color their stages, but to embellish their toy theater personae with bits of cloth and tinsel. Just as the toy-sized stages diminished a play’s scale, their corresponding scripts tended to abridge the text, paring it down to key characters and lines for a shorter, less complicated presentation.\n\nIn the first half of the 19th century more than 300 of London’s most popular plays saw issue as toy theaters. Publishers sent artists to the playhouses of Georgian and early-Victorian London to record the scenery, costumes and dramatic attitudes of the greatest successes of the day. The theatre management often provided these artists with a free seat, as the toy theatre sheets were excellent free advertising.\n\nStage theater of the early 19th century had been based more on spectacle than on depth of plot or character, and these characteristics lent themselves effectively to the format of toy theater. Toward the end of the 19th century, European popular drama had shifted its preference to the trend of Realism, marking a dramaturgical swing toward psychological complexity, character motivation and settings utilizing ordinary three-dimensional scenic elements. This trend in stage theater did not make an easy conversion to its toy counterpart, and with the fanciful dramas of 50 years prior being out of fashion, the toy theaters that remained in print fell into obsolescence. \n\nDespite its fall in popularity, toy theater remained in the realm of influential artists who championed its resurgence. In 1884 British author Robert Louis Stevenson wrote an essay in tribute of toy theater’s tiny grandeur entitled “Penny Plain, Twopence Coloured” in which he extolled the virtues of the dramas supplied by Pollock's. Other children’s authors like Lewis Carroll and Hans Christian Andersen also dabbled in toy theater, as did Oscar Wilde. The brothers Jack and William Butler Yeats both used toy theaters as mock-ups for their work in art and stagecraft. In the 20th century toy theater became a tool for the avant-garde, messed with by Futurist founder F.T. Marienetti as well as Pablo Picasso. Film directors like Ingmar Bergman and Orson Welles would use toy theaters as staging grounds for their cinematic masterpieces, and Laurence Olivier even made a toy theater of his film version of \"Hamlet\", mass-produced with a little paper cutout of himself in the starring role. But after its second wave boom, toy theater fell into a second recession, replaced in the 1950s, by a different box in people’s sitting rooms that needed no live operator and whose sets, characters, stories and musical numbers were beamed in electronically from miles away to be projected on the glass of a cathode ray tube: television.\n\nToy theater has been enjoying a revival in recent decades. Collectors and traditionalists perform restored versions of Victorian plays while experimental puppeteers push the form’s limits, adapting the works of Isaac Babel and Italo Calvino, as well as that of unsung storytellers, friends, neighbors, relatives, and themselves. Contemporary toy theater may utilize any available technology and cover any subject, and numerous international toy theater festivals occur regularly throughout the Americas and Europe, attracting many well-known actors, musicians and authors to their stages.\n\nMass-produced toy theaters are usually sold as printed sheets, either in black and white to be colored as desired, or as full-color images of the proscenium, scenery, sets, props and characters. The sheets are pasted onto thin cardboard, cut out, and then assembled for the purposes of the reenacting of a play. Figures are attached to small sticks, wires, or configurations of strings that allow them to move about the set. Some toy theaters and figures are enhanced with moving parts and special effects, and it is common for performances to include live or pre-recorded sound effects and music.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6312082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6312082", "title": "Transnational citizenship", "text": "Transnational citizenship\n\nTransnational citizenship redefines traditional notions of citizenship and replaces an individual's singular national loyalties with the ability to belong to multiple nation states, as made visible in the political, cultural, social and economic realms. Unlike national citizenship, where individuals interact in such capacities with one sovereign state, transnational citizenship transcends pre-established territorial boundaries in order to create a modern meaning of \"belonging\" in an increasingly globalized society. Additionally, while preconceived notions of citizenship are often divided between national, social and individual forms of identity, all three categories serve to contribute to the meaning of transnational citizenship. State citizenship can be defined as an individual establishing their sense of belonging by espousing to the liberal-democratic values of the state in the public sphere. When applied to transnational citizenship, an individual would have the opportunity to be civically engaged in multiple societies. A Dominican politician who lives in Santo Domingo yet canvasses in a highly dense Dominican American population in Boston, Massachusetts for external votes is an example of a transnational citizens functioning politically between two states.\n\nIn terms of the categories of social and individual forms of belonging, transnational citizens are marked by multiple identities and allegiances, and often travel between two or more countries, all in which they have created sizeable networks of differing functions. Similar to global or cosmopolitan citizenship, it is composed of cross-national and multi-layered memberships to certain societies. Transnational citizenship is based on the idea that a new global framework consistent of subgroups of national identities will eventually replace membership to one sole nation-state. In a hyper-realized version of transnational citizenship, \"states become intermediaries between the local and the global.\" Institutionalizing transnational citizenship would loosen ties between territories and citizenship and would ultimately result in a reconstruction of world order that forever changes the capacity in which individuals interact with government institutions.\n\nWhile some relate transnational citizenship to any historic shift or fusion of identities within nation-states, modern conceptions of the term have only surfaced in the past twenty years. Many attribute the evolution of the term to the rising situation of globalization. Globalization is defined by a heightened international access to the world capital market system and increased abilities to more rapid forms of communication. Due to the convenience and ease of modern international exchanges, globalization has become the process by which international economies as well as individuals interact with one another. Since post-Cold War 1989, the evolved \"global political economy\" has resulted in massive \"reconfigurations of the world's arenas\". Globalization transformed a confined geo-political system into one that relies heavily on multiple levels of local, national and global interactions. For example, China's industrialization from an agricultural society to a manufacturing society chronicled by excessive imports and exports contribute to a need to interconnect societies from all corners of the globe. The wealth that private institutions experienced from globalization resulted in \"further extensions of corporations in search of faraway resources and markets\".\n\nBeyond resulting in substantial political and economical shifts, globalization has also affected social and cultural practices between people. According to citizenship scholars like Andrew Vandenberg, such acts of globalization eventually \"ended the constraints of space and time that conditioned all earlier human transactions, practices, and therefore identities. With the growth and distribution of technology, more people all over the world have come to establish personal relationships with one another. Former state-regulated formal encounters are now replaced by modern informal and all the more frequent interactions. Rapid world economic growth has consequently led to international migrations. In recent years, in conjunction with globalization, increased instances of uncontrolled and predominantly illegal international migrations contribute to opportunities for escalating transnational identities. Because obvious ties surface between immigrants, their home countries, and the receiving countries, the civic ramifications are widespread. Thus international immigration contributes to loosening individual state ties. Once in their host countries, immigrants form social networks while maintaining ties to their homeland. Some organizations function in both countries, which serves to further enhance the notion that international migrants act as transnational citizens in multiple lands.\n\nIt is important to draw a distinction between transnational citizenship and multiculturalism among national citizens. While transnational citizens bring cultural and societal elements of their home countries to their host countries and vice versa, multiculturalism results from the fusion of differing ethnic minorities or indigenous peoples on a micro scale of a particular local environment. These interactions are described as \"crosscutting and always mutually situational identifications.\" Therefore, ethnic minorities and majorities alike intermingle in a mutually shared space. All different types of individuals function within the same system, and eventually collective national identities are formed. On the other hand, transnational citizens live within the context of two or more societies that differ in size, scope, populations, laws, morals, and cultural codes. While transnational citizens interact with those already present in each respective community, they are functioning within divergent spaces. They base their interactions more on the need to reconcile two completely diverse localities into a greater context that traverses international borders, politics, and ways of life.\n\n\"The question for the future of citizenship is whether a 'global' citizenship can transcend citizenships defined by 'local' stages on the basis of blood and birth through an act of the state itself.\" — Henry Teune\n\nSome scholars consider the creation of the European Union as the pilot case for testing Teune's question about whether or not transnational citizenship can surpass national citizenship. Starting in the early 1980s, European national migration control officials met and established a consensus over the relationship between migration, asylum and crime. The control officials deemed migration as a security issue, and called for a \"multi-level governance\" in order to control migratory practices. Virginie Guiraudon generates the theory of \"venue-shopping\" in order to describe how cross-national policies prevailed. Venue-shopping is the process by which political members seek out specific governmental settings in order to establish their ideal policy outcomes. Political actors circumvented national levels of control in order to establish a \"transnational cooperation\" among nation-states. Starting in 1981, citizens with passports from European countries were able to move freely across borders into other European countries. Due to the increased ease of traversing borders, the \"Europeanization\" of individuals began to occur in which a new transnational identity could be conceived.\n\nThe creation of the European Union only accelerated growing notions of transnational citizenship across the continent. The European Union came into being on November 1, 1993, when European nations signed the Treaty of Maastricht into law. The treaty established \"community policy\" in six new areas, one of which is termed \"trans-European networks.\" The treaty also discusses the specific effects of the merger on a new formation of European citizenship. The benefits of European citizenship include the ability for citizens to freely cross borders into and subsequently reside in other European countries, the right to vote in elections and run for office in both municipal and European elections in the state in which the citizen resides, the right to access any member country's diplomatic or consular services in a third-party country in which the citizen's birth nation is not represented, and the citizen's right to petition to the European parliament. The treaty thus instituted \"European citizenship over and above national citizenship\". This ultimately facilitates a new form of \"European identity\" that allows for members of the European Union to function as transnational actors beyond their countries' borders, establishing the entire continent as one cohesive entity.\n\nFinally, the creation of the euro serves as the pinnacle of Europe's newfound economic unification. On January 1, 1999, the euro replaced the pre-existing currency in 11 European countries. The Treaty of Maastricht also created the European System of Central Banks, which consists of the Central European Bank and national central banks working together to establish monetary policy across participating countries. Some scholars consider the act of unifying the currency as \"culminating the progress toward economic and monetary union in Europe\". While the aspect of monetary union is clear, the far-reaching effects of economic union between countries could be considered a cause for debate. Regardless, the euro allows for transnational citizens of the European Union to not only move freely across borders, but also to experience easier monetary exchanges through the ability to use a currency that is present in both the citizens' home and host countries. The political, economic, and social ramifications that result from the invention of the European Union help contribute to the construction of European citizens as the international model for transnational citizenship.\n\n\n"}
