{"id": "29789091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29789091", "title": "Al-Mansur Ahmad", "text": "Al-Mansur Ahmad\n\nAl-Mansur Ahmad (died 1853) was a Zaydiyya imam who claimed the rulership over Yemen in the years 1849-1853. His strife-ridden career spelt the end of the Zaydi Imamate of Yemen as a coherent force.\n\nIn the 19th century, the shrinking resources of the Yemeni state, which had existed since the early 17th century, combined with religio-political strife to erode the authority of the ruling imams. In general terms, a Sunni-influenced element, which backed the imams of the Qasimi line, stood against traditional Hadawi (Zaydiyya) interests. The Hadawi imam an-Nasir Abdallah was murdered in 1840, and Sunni elements regained power. However, an-Nasir Abdullah's partisan Sayyid Husayn withdrew to Sa'dah, north of the capital Sana'a, bringing a number of Hadawi ulema. One of his retainers was a younger scholar called Ahmad bin Hashim. He was a Sayyid, but not of the Qasimi line; rather, he was a 23rd-generation descendant of the imam al-Mansur Yahya (d. 976). Some time after the death of his patron, in 1847/48, Ahmad bin Hashim undertook a hijra, an emigration from tyrannical rule, of his own. Together with some ulema he left Sana'a for Sa'dah. There he claimed the imamate in 1849.\n\nIn Sa'na itself, an Ottoman invasion had just been repelled, but the new imam al-Mansur Ali II lacked proper qualifications for the dignity. This became the opportunity for Ahmad bin Hashim, who took the regnal title al-Mansur Ahmad. He gained a great following from the Hashid tribe and the tribal groups to the north-east. Elements which were dissatisfied with the Sunni-oriented style of the imam's court in Sa'na, backed the new claimant. The ulema of Sana'a, realizing the poor merits of al-Mansur Ali II, deposed him in favour of the scholarly al-Mu'ayyad Abbas (1850). The population of Sana'a, Dhamar and Yarim split into factions backing either Ali or Abbas. Under these circumstances, the followers of al-Mansur Ahmad were able to gain control over Sana'a in 1850. Al-Mu'ayyad Abbas took refuge in the citadel of the city, but was forced to capitulate.\n\nThe \"rebellion\" of al-Mansur Ahmad was made possible through the widespread discontent with the authoritarianism and extravagance of the ruling elite in Sana'a. Nevertheless, the enterprise soon proved unsuccessful. The action virtually destroyed the Qasimi state of Yemen, which was fragmented along tribal and regional lines. The tribal groups which had supported Al-Mansur Ahmad abandoned him soon after his accession. He was unable to pay them to ensure their loyalty, or to raise an army to gain control over the country. The previous incumbent, al-Mansur Ali II, made a new bid for Sana'a. The city was taken by his followers, although it quickly changed hands again to al-Hadi Ghalib (1851). Al-Mansur Ahmad's rule over Sana'a had only lasted for three months. His imamate thus lapsed into obscurity, and he had to flee to the Arhat tribe.\n\n"}
{"id": "32344365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32344365", "title": "Arbore people", "text": "Arbore people\n\nThe Arbore is an ethnic group living in southern Ethiopia, near Lake Chew Bahir. The Arbore people exist as pastoralists (see Pastoralism), and have ancestral links to the Konso People. With a total population of 6850, the Abore population is divided into four villages, named: Gandareb, Kulaama, Murale, and Eegude.\n\nThat the language of Arbore belongs within a \"Macro-Somali\" (now \"Omo-Tana\") group was first recognized by Sasse (1974). Other members of this group are Daasanach, Bayso, Rendille, Boni and the various Somali dialects. Omo-Tana itself is a major division of Lowland East Cushitic. Arbore's nearest relatives (jointly classified as Western Omo-Tana) are Daasanach and-especially the probably extinct Kenyan language of the Elmolo fisherman of Lake Turkana. The sub-grouping is justified in terms of uniquely shared lexicon and certain common grammatical innovations, amongst which should be noted the generalizations of the absolute forms of the 1st person singular and 2nd person singular personal pronouns to subject function, thereby replacing the earlier Proto-Lowland East Cushitic forms, e.g. 2nd personal pronouns to subject function, thereby replacing the earlier Proto-Lowland East Cushitic forms, e.g., 2nd person singular \"tai/u\" 'thou': \"ki/u\" 'thee', but Arbore \"ke\" 'thou' and 'thee'.\nArbore well exemplifies a number of typical lowland East Cushitic features such as: a three-term number system (basic unit: singulative: plural) in nouns, within which \"polarity\" figures, i.e., gender alternations across the various number forms of a lexeme; a morphosyntax thoroughly deployed in distinguishing topic and contrastive focus; great morphophonological complexity in its verbal derivation and inflection. Of historical interest is the language's preservation of at least a dozen verbs of the archaic \"Prefix Conjugation\", often attributed to Proto-Afrosiatic itself.\n\nThe people who also call themselves the Hor (Hoor) live in four villages in the delta of the Limo River (also known as Dullay or Weyto) at the northern end of Lake Stephanie (Bau or Chew Bahr) in South Omo Administrative Region. The name Arbore is used by the inhabitants if two of the four villages, Gandaraba and Kulama, whereas the inhabitants of Eegude and Murale refer to themselves as Marle, Arbore being the term traditionally employed by anthropologists and by the Ethiopian government.\n\nThe Arbore practice pastoralism, sorghum cultivation, seasonal fishing and hunting and engage in a wide regional network of bond friendship for the exchange of gifts. In 1996 their population numbered 3,840. Their economy of subsistence depends largely on the periodical floods of the river.\n\nThe age organization controls cattle, pasture and water. It distributes cultivable land after floods and guarantees law and order in the territory of the Arbore. Each generation class (\"herr\") comes to power after an initiation which is held once in about 40 years in rituals known as \"ner\" and \"chirnan\". Each generation class consists of four age classes (\"jim\"). The group containing the young people waiting to be initiated into a \"jim\" is called \"morqo\". The same term is used for the four age classes organized and named, but waiting to form a generation class by undergoing initiation at the close of the 40 years.\n\nThe Garle and Olmoque clans, who are senior and junior, jointly lead the political and ritual life of the Arbore and their neighbors, and the leaders of the age organization survey the smooth running of daily life among the Arbore. The political chief is usually called \"kyrnat\", the ritual \"qawot\", even though it does not imply that political and religious life and functions are strictly separated. Both the Arbore and their neighbors enter the sacred cattle-gates of \"qawots\" (ritual chiefs) with gifts of heifers, bulls, honey, coffee, tobacco and herbs to receive blessings for human, animal and crop fertility, for rain and for victory against their enemies.\n\n"}
{"id": "4638228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4638228", "title": "Authors' Licensing and Collecting Society", "text": "Authors' Licensing and Collecting Society\n\nThe Authors' Licensing and Collecting Society (ALCS) is a British organisation that works to ensure that writers are fairly compensated for any of their works that are copied, broadcast or recorded. It has operated in the United Kingdom since 1977. From that year to 2016, the ALCS distributed over £450 million to authors, and at the end of 2016 had in excess of 90,000 members.\n\nALCS was founded in 1977 after a long campaign in the United Kingdom by the Writers' Action Group (WAG) for writers to receive remuneration for the lending of their works by libraries. Then known as the Authors' Lending and Copyright Society, it was incorporated on 26 April 1977 to handle:\n\n\nHowever, the organization that was eventually responsible for distributing the fees obtained from the lending of books in libraries was the Public Lending Right.\n\nIn 1982, The Copyright Licensing Agency was founded by ALCS and the Publishers Licensing Society (PLS). ALCS receives the majority of its income (65–70%) from the CLA's photocopying licensing schemes.\n\nALCS represents the interests of many UK writers and aims to ensure they are fairly compensated for any works that are copied, broadcast or recorded. The organisation is dedicated to protecting and promoting authors' rights:\n\n\nALCS's Ordinary Members sign a mandate that authorizes the Society to license and collect royalties on their behalf. ALCS is granted authority to exercise rights on each author's behalf as part of schemes for the collective administration of royalties in the UK and abroad. The rights range from photocopying, scanning and cable retransmission in the UK and internationally to reproduction in journals. The authority entitles ALCS in agreed circumstances to permit or forbid the exercise of the rights, grant licences, collect fees for use and damages for misuse and take action to defend and protect the rights. ALCS works closely with other writers organisations such as The Society of Authors and Writers' Guild of Great Britain.\n\nFrom its inception in 1977, ALCS has distributed over £450 million to authors, and in the financial year 2015-2016 it paid £28 million to over 70,000 writers.\n\nAs an authority on copyright matters and authors' interests, the ALCS is committed to fostering an awareness of intellectual property issues among the writing community. It monitors matters affecting copyright both in the UK and internationally, and makes regular representations on writers' behalf to the UK government and the European Commission. ALCS also administers the All Party Writers Group.\n\nThe ALCS is governed by a board of 9 directors, the majority of whom are working writers. The Board is responsible for the overall performance of the Society, which is incorporated as a company limited by guarantee.\n\n"}
{"id": "47244423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47244423", "title": "Cannabis in Guam", "text": "Cannabis in Guam\n\nCannabis in Guam is as of 2015 legal for medical purposes, but illegal for recreational purposes. Guam was the first United States Territory to legalize medical marijuana, in 2014.\n\nThe 2012 UNODC \"World Drug Report\" ranked Guam as the third-highest jurisdiction for adult cannabis in the world, at 18.4%. , according to NORML, possession of less than an ounce, outside a school zone, can result is a civil infraction with a $100 fine.\n\nA 1996 report by the Guam Health Planning and Development Agency attributes the origin of marijuana usage in Guam to the Vietnam War of the 1960s and 1970s, when American servicemen on the island popularized the habit.\n\n\"Guam v. Guerrero\" was a United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit ruling issued in 2002, which ruled that Benny Guerrero was not entitled to religious protections for his possession of cannabis on Guam despite his professed Rastafari religion. Guerrero was arrested for possession at Guam International Airport in 1991. His argument for religious exemption had been approved by a lower court, then by the Supreme Court of Guam which found it valid under the Free Exercise Clause of the Constitution of Guam; however, the Guamanian government raised the issue to the Ninth Circuit which ultimately struck down the lower findings.\n\nThe August 2003 \"Guam Drug Threat Assessment\" by the National Drug Intelligence Center notes:\nEnhanced eradication, interdiction, and street-level law enforcement initiatives caused a significant increase in marijuana prices in the early 1990s, and prices have remained high. In 1991 the price for 1 pound of marijuana increased from $2,500 to between $5,000 and $8,000. According to DEA, in the second quarter of FY2002 marijuana sold for $12,800 per pound. In addition, marijuana sold for $800 per ounce, and $20 per joint. The drug typically is distributed at the retail level in machine-rolled joints. In spite of law enforcement efforts, marijuana is more readily available on Guam than in Japan. As a result, many young Japanese tourists seek the drug during their visits. The price of one machine-rolled joint for sale to a Japanese tourist ranges from $150 to $200, considerably more than the $20 paid by local users.\n\nDespite the widespread availability of marijuana, the number of marijuana-related federal sentences on Guam remained very low from FY1997 through FY2001. According to USSC data, Guam had two marijuana-related federal sentences in FY1997, one in FY1998, none in FY1999, none in FY2000, and one in FY2001.\n\nCannabis is cultivated both outdoors and indoors on Guam, primarily for personal consumption. Because of the poor soil, domestically produced marijuana has lower THC (tetrahydrocannabinol) levels than marijuana produced in other source areas. ... Violence is occasionally associated with cannabis cultivation on Guam. Law enforcement authorities encounter a significant number of small cannabis plots in remote areas, and cannabis growers occasionally booby-trap these cultivation sites, endangering both law enforcement officers and the general public.\n\nMarijuana typically is smuggled into Guam from the Republic of Palau and, to a lesser extent, from Hawaii and the Federated States of Micronesia via package delivery services or in commercial air cargo. Often the relatives of Guam residents who are of Palauan descent ship large coolers containing fish or yams with 5 to 10 pounds of marijuana hidden inside the coolers' walls. Bodycarriers aboard commercial aircraft also transport marijuana into Guam. ...\n\nGuam legalized medical marijuana for \"debilitative conditions\" via referendum in the November 2014 mid-term elections, with 56% voting in favor.\n\nGuam had previously attempted to legalize medical marijuana in 2010, under \"Bill 420\" (later withdrawn and replaced with Bill 423); its public hearing was attended by only one person, who spoke against the measure, and the bill was unsuccessful.\n\nIn 2017, Guam's governor vetoed legislation to allow medical cannabis license holders to cultivate cannabis in their homes.\n\nIn January 2017 governor Eddie Calvo proposed a bill, called the Marijuana Control Law, to legalize recreational cannabis in Guam.\n"}
{"id": "26742316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26742316", "title": "Caxton Club", "text": "Caxton Club\n\nThe Caxton Club is a private social club and bibliophilic society founded in Chicago in 1895 to promote the book arts and the history of the book. To further its goals, the club holds monthly (September through June) dinner meetings and luncheons, sponsors bibliophile events (often in collaboration with the Newberry Library and with other regional institutions) and exhibitions, and publishes books, exhibition catalogs, and a monthly journal, \"The Caxtonian\". The Caxton Club is a member club of the Fellowship of American Bibliophilic Societies.\n\nThe Caxton Club was founded in 1895 by a group of fifteen bibliophiles to support the publication of fine books in the style of the then-new Arts and Crafts Movement. The club's name honors the fifteenth-century English printer William Caxton.\n\nThe Caxton Club flourished until World War I, after which its membership declined. The club was revived, however, and began to hold regular monthly meetings. The club was exclusively for men until 1976 when the first women were elected to membership.\n\nThe Club published a number of fine editions in partnership with the Lakeside Press of Chicago.\n\nThe Club gives out scholarships and grants to students and researchers in the book arts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36488061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36488061", "title": "Census in Botswana", "text": "Census in Botswana\n\nThe Population and Housing Census is a decennial census in Botswana run by the Central Statistics Office.\n\nThe seven censuses of Botswana before its independence happened irregularly. Due to the Anglo-Boer War, the first census of Bechuanaland Protectorate, originally set to occur in 1901, took place on 17 April 1904. The 1931 census was postponed to 1936 because of the Great Depression. The early censuses were unreliable and took several years to tabulate; the results were outdated by the time they were calculated.\n\nThere have been five censuses after the independence of Botswana, each occurring every ten years in the year ending in 1 (i.e. 1971, 1981, 1991, 2001, and 2011). The 1971 census was the first census in Botswana to use de facto enumeration; this method counts people based on how many people spent census night at a specific location. Previously, the citizens were counted based on their usual place of residence. The 2001 census was the first census in Botswana to comply with the SADC 2000 Census Project, the guidelines of which unify the demographic statistics in southern Africa. The most recent census was the 2011 Botswana Population and Housing Census, which occurred in August 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "622772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622772", "title": "Chechens", "text": "Chechens\n\nChechens (; '; Old Chechen: Нахчой \"Naxçoy\") are a Northeast Caucasian ethnic group of the Nakh peoples originating in the North Caucasus region of Eastern Europe. They refer to themselves as Vainakhs (which means \"our people\" in Chechen) or Nokhchiy (pronounced ; singular Nokhchi, Nakhchuo or Nakhtche). Chechen and Ingush peoples are collectively known as the Vainakh. The majority of Chechens today live in the Chechen Republic, a subdivision of the Russian Federation.\n\nThe isolated terrain of the Caucasus mountains and the strategic value outsiders have placed on the areas settled by Chechens has contributed much to the Chechen community ethos and helped shape its fiercely independent national character. Chechen society has traditionally been egalitarian and organized around many autonomous local clans, called teips.\n\nThe term \"Chechen\" first occurs in Arabic sources from the 8th century. According to popular tradition, the Russian term \"Chechen\" comes from the name of the village of Chechen-Aul. The word \"Chechen\", however, occurs in Russian sources as early as 1692 and the Russians probably derived it from the Kabardian \"Shashan\".\n\nThe Chechens are mainly inhabitants of Chechnya. There are also significant Chechen populations in other subdivisions of Russia (especially in Dagestan, Ingushetia and Moscow).\n\nOutside Russia, countries with significant diaspora populations are Kazakhstan, Turkey, Azerbaijan, and Arab states (especially Jordan and Iraq, where they are mainly descendants of people who had to leave Chechnya during the Caucasian War, which led to the annexation of Chechnya by the Russian Empire around 1850) and the 1944 Stalinist deportation in the case of Kazakhstan. Tens of thousands of Chechen refugees settled in the European Union and elsewhere as the result of the recent Chechen Wars, especially in the wave of emigration to the West after 2002.\n\nThe Chechens are one of the Nakh peoples, who have lived in the highlands of the North Caucasus region since prehistory. There is archeological evidence of historical continuity dating back since 3000 B.C. as well as evidence proving their migration from the Fertile Crescent c. 10,000–8000 B.C.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the lowland of Chechnya was dominated by the Khazars and then the Alans. Local culture was also subject to Byzantine and Georgian influence and some Chechens converted to Eastern Orthodox Christianity. Gradually, Islam prevailed, although the Chechens' own pagan religion was still strong until the 19th century. Society was organised along feudal lines. Chechnya was devastated by the Mongol invasions of the 13th century and those of Tamerlane in the 14th. The Vainakh bear the distinction of being one of the few peoples to successfully resist the Mongols and defend themselves against their invasions; not once, but twice, though this came at great cost to them, as their state was utterly destroyed. These events were key in the shaping of the Chechen nationhood and their martial-oriented and clan-based society.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, the Little Ice Age forced the Chechens down from the hills into the lowlands, where they came into conflict with the Terek and Greben Cossacks who had also begun to move into the region. The Caucasus was also a major competing area for two neighbouring rival empires: the Ottoman and Persian Empires (Safavids, Afsharids, Qajars). Starting from 1555 and decisely from 1639 through the first half of the 19th century, the Caucasus was divided by these two powers, with the Ottomans prevailing in Western Georgia, while Persia kept the bulk of the Caucasus, namely Eastern Georgia, Dagestan, Azerbaijan, and Armenia. The Chechens, however, never really fell under the rule of either empire. As Russia expanded slowly southwards as early as the 16th century, clashes between Chechens and the Russians became more frequent, and it became three empires competing for the region. As Russia set off to increase its political influence in the Caucasus and the Caspian Sea at the expense of Safavid Persia, Peter I launched the Russo-Persian War (1722-1723), in which Russia succeeded in taking much of the Caucasian territories for several years. Notable in Chechen history, this particular Russo-Persian War marked the first military encounter between Imperial Russia and the Vainakh. Sheikh Mansur led a major Chechen resistance movement in the late 18th century.\n\nIn the late 18th and 19th centuries, Russia embarked on full-scale conquest of the North Caucasus in the Caucasian War. Much of the campaign was led by General Yermolov who particularly disliked the Chechens, describing them as \"a bold and dangerous people\". Angered by Chechen raids, Yermolov resorted to a brutal policy of \"scorched earth\" and deportations; he also founded the fort of Grozny (now the capital of Chechnya) in 1818. Chechen resistance to Russian rule reached its peak under the leadership of the Dagestani leader Imam Shamil. The Chechens were finally defeated in 1861 after a bloody war that lasted for decades, during which they lost most of their entire population. In the aftermath, large numbers of refugees also emigrated or were forcibly deported to the Ottoman Empire.\n\nSince then, there have been various Chechen rebellions against Russian/Soviet power (including during the Russian Civil War and World War II), as well as nonviolent resistance to Russification and the Soviet Union's collectivization and anti-religion campaigns. In 1944, all Chechens, together with several other peoples of the Caucasus, were ordered by the Soviet leader Joseph Stalin to be ruthlessly deported \"en masse\" to the Kazakh and Kirghiz SSRs; and their republic and nation were abolished. At least one-quarter—and perhaps half—of the entire Chechen population perished in the process, and a severe blow was made to their culture and historical records. Though \"rehabilitated\" in 1956 and allowed to return the next year, the survivors lost economic resources and civil rights and, under both Soviet and post-Soviet governments, they have been the objects of both official and unofficial discrimination and discriminatory public discourse. Chechen attempts to regain independence in the 1990s after the fall of the Soviet Union have led to the first and the second war with the new Russian state, starting in 1994.\n\nThe main language of the Chechen people is Chechen. Chechen belongs to the family of Nakh languages (Northeast Caucasian languages). Literary Chechen is based on the central lowland dialect. Other related languages include Ingush, which has speakers in the neighbouring Ingushetia, and Batsbi, which is the language of the people in the adjoining part of Georgia. At various times in their history, Chechens used Georgian, Arabic and Latin alphabets; as of 2008, the official one is now the Cyrillic script of Russia.\n\nMost Chechens living in their homeland can understand Ingush with ease. The two languages are not truly mutually intelligible, but it is easy for Chechens to learn how to understand the Ingush language and vice-versa over time after hearing it for a while.\n\nIn 1989, 73.4% spoke Russian, though this figure has declined due to the wars for a large number of reasons (including the lack of proper education, the refusal to learn the language, and the mass dispersal of the Chechen diaspora due to the war). Chechens in the diaspora often speak the language of the country they live in (German, Arabic, Polish, Georgian, etc.).\n\nChechens are a Nakh people, and discussion of their origins is intertwined with the discussion of the mysterious origins of Nakh peoples as a whole. The only two surviving (and fairly numerous) Nakh peoples are Chechens and Ingush, but they are thought by some scholars to be the remnants of what was once a larger family of peoples.\n\nThe Nakh languages are a subgroup of Northeast Caucasian, and as such are related to Nakho-Dagestanian family, including the languages of the Avars, Dargins, Lezghins, Laks, etc.\nHowever, this relationship is not a close one: the Nakho-Dagestani family is of comparable or greater time-depth than Indo-European, meaning Chechens are only as linguistically related to Avars or Dargins as the French are to the Russians or Iranians.\n\nNakh peoples such as Chechens are thought to either be descended from original settlers of the Caucasus (North and/or South) or supposedly Nakh-speaking ethnic minorities in the north-eastern regions of the ancient state of Urartu (whose people also spoke a language that was possibly related to the Nakh languages). The two theories are not mutually incompatible, and there has been much evidence that seems to link both of the two together (either by dual origins or the \"return\" theory, in which the Nakh peoples originally lived in the Caucasus and then returned). Chechen genetics show a high level of genetic diversity (see section below).\n\nIn particular, the Chechens are descended from the \"Durdzuks\", a group well known in the Georgian chronicles (\"Dourts\" in the Armenian version). Other groups linked Amjad Jaimoukha traces the name Durdzuk to an ancient city north of Lake Urmia, near Nakhichevan (Nakhichevan is thought to be a Nakh placename by some). Other groups attributed to being the ancestors of the Chechens and Ingush include the \"Kists\" (in the Georgian chronicles), \"Gargareans\" (from the Nakh root \"gergara\"; reported by Strabo to have \"returned\" from the South Caucasus to the North Caucasus, fleeing the wars in the south) and the \"Nakhchmateans\" (Armenian chronicles).\n\nThe Chechens belong to the Western Eurasian or \"Caucasoid\" race, specifically the Caucasus type. \nChechens are black-, brown-, red- or fair-haired (with darker hair predominating) and eyes can be brown, blue or green, while skin is usually light. George Anchabadze notes that the physical traits of Chechens, which includes being taller than average, are typical of the \"Caucasian type\" which many other peoples of the Caucasus exhibit.\n\nGenetic tests on Chechens, though sparse and not sufficiently thorough so far, have shown roots mostly in the Caucasus as well as slight connections to and influences from the Middle East as well as Europe. As is the case with many other Caucasian peoples, Chechens are broadly connected with Europe on the Y-DNA (the paternal side) from all European regions, but narrowly closer to Western Europe in terms of mitochondrial DNA (the maternal side).\n\nThe most recent study on Chechens, by Balanovsky \"et al.\" in 2011 sampled a total of 330 Chechens from three sample locations (one in Malgobek, one in Achkhoy-Martan, and one from two sites in Dagestan) and found the following frequencies: A weak majority of Chechens belong to Haplogroup J2 (56.7%), which is associated with Mediterranean, South Caucasian and Fertile Crescent populations, with its peaks at 87.4% in Ingushetia and 72% in Georgia's Kazbegi Municipality. In the North Caucasus, the largest frequencies are those of Nakh peoples (Chechens (56.7%) and Ingush (88.8%)). Other notable values were found among North Caucasian Turkic peoples (Kumyks (25%) and Balkars (24%)). It is notable that J2 suddenly collapses as one enters the territory of non-Nakh Northeast Caucasian peoples, dropping to very low values among Dagestani peoples. The overwhelming bulk of Chechen J2 is of the subclade J2a4b* (J2-M67), of which the highest frequencies by far are found among Nakh peoples: Chechens were 55.2% according to the Balanovsky study, while Ingush were 87.4%. Other notable haplogroups that appeared consistently appeared at high frequencies included J1 (20.9%), L (7.0%), G2 (5.5%), R1a (3.9%), Q-M242 (3%) and R1b-M269 (1.8%, but much higher in Chechnya itself as opposed to Dagestani or Ingushetian Chechens). Overall, tests have shown consistently that Chechens are most closely related to Ingush, Circassians and Georgians, occasionally showing a kinship to other peoples in some tests. Balanovsky's study showed the Ingush to be the Chechens' closest relatives by far.\n\nA 2004 study of the mtDNA showed Chechens to be extremely diverse in the mitochondrial genome, with 18 different haplogroups out of only 23 samples. Chechens clustered closest to Azeris, Georgians and Kabardins. They clustered closer to European populations than Middle Eastern populations this time, but were closer to Western European populations (Basques and Britons) than to Eastern European populations (Russians and other Slavs, as well as Estonians), despite living in the East. They actually clustered about as close to Basques as they did to Ingush (Chechens also cluster closer to many other populations than Ingush, such as Abazins), but the Chechens were the closer to the Ingush than any other population, the imbalance probably largely being due to the uniqueness of the Ingush on the mitochondrial DNA among those tested.\n\nPrior to the adoption of Islam, the Chechens practiced a unique blend of religious traditions and beliefs. They partook in numerous rites and rituals, many of them pertaining to farming; these included rain rites, a celebration that occurred on the first day of plowing, as well as the Day of the Thunderer Sela and the Day of the Goddess Tusholi. In addition to sparse written record from the Middle Ages, Chechens traditionally remember history through the \"illesh\", a collection of epic poems and stories.\n\nChechen society is structured around \"tukhum\" (unions of clans) and about 130 \"teip\", or clans. The teips are based more on land and one-side lineage than on blood (as exogamy is prevalent and encouraged), and are bonded together to form the Chechen nation. Teips are further subdivided into \"gar\" (branches), and gars into \"nekye\" (patronymic families). The Chechen social code is called \"nokhchallah\" (where \"Nokhchuo\" stands for \"Chechen\") and may be loosely translated as \"Chechen character\". The Chechen code of honor implies moral and ethical behaviour, generosity and the will to safeguard the honor of women. The traditional Chechen saying goes that the members of Chechen society, like its teips, are (ideally) \"free and equal like wolves\".\n\nChechens today have a strong sense of nation, which is enforced by the old clan network and \"nokhchalla\" – the obligation to clan, tukhum, etc. This is often combined with old values transmuted into a modern sense. They are mythically descended from the epic hero, Turpalo-Nokhchuo (\"Chechen Hero\"). There is a strong theme of representing the nation with its national animal, the wolf. Due to their strong dependence on the land, its farms and its forests (and indeed, the national equation with the wolf), Chechens have a strong sense of affection for nature. According to Chechen philosopher Apty Bisultanov, ruining an ant-hill or hunting Caucasian goats during their mating season was considered extremely sinful. It is notable that the glasnost era Chechen independence movement, \"Bart\" (unity) in fact originated as a simple environmentalist organization in the republic's capital of Grozny.\n\nChechen culture puts a strong value on the concept of freedom. This asserts itself in a number of ways. A large majority of the nation's national heroes fought for independence (or otherwise, like the legendary Zelimkhan, robbed from the nation deemed the oppressor in order to feed Chechen children in a Robin Hood-like fashion). A common greeting in the Chechen language, \"marsha oylla\", is literally translated as \"enter in freedom\". The word for freedom also encompasses notions of peace and prosperity.\n\nChechens are sometimes referred to as the \"French of the Caucasus\", for a number of reasons (it is notable that the Circassians are the \"English of the Caucasus\", and the Georgians are the \"Italians of the Caucasus\"). This comparison may refer to either political/historical traits, or to personality characteristics. Like the French, who overthrew their age-old monarchy in the French Revolution, the Chechens had a similar revolution a century or two earlier, and like the French, they bore the distinction (for a period) of being the only egalitarian society in an area full of monarchic states. Like the French, the Chechens preferred swift, revolutionary (and often violent) methods to realize the change they wished to see – unlike the Circassians (called the \"English of the Caucasus\" both for their political and personality characteristics) who preferred more gradualist methods. Chechens were also called \"French\" by early Russian military officers and the French anthropologist Ernest Chantre who noted their \"happy and witty\" nature.\n\nChechnya is predominantly Muslim.\nMost Chechens belong to the Shafi'i school of thought of Sunni Islam. Some adhere to the mystical Sufi tradition of muridism, while about half of Chechens belong to Sufi brotherhoods, or \"tariqah\". The two Sufi tariqas that spread in the North Caucasus were the Naqshbandiya and the Qadiriya (the Naqshbandiya is particularly strong in Dagestan and eastern Chechnya, whereas the Qadiriya has most of its adherents in the rest of Chechnya and Ingushetia). There are also small Christian and atheist minorities, although their numbers are unknown in Chechnya; in Kazakhstan, they are roughly 3% and 2% of the Chechen population respectively.\n\nA stereotype of an average Chechen being a fundamentalist Muslim is incorrect and misleading. By the late 2000s, however, two new trends have emerged in Chechnya. A radicalized remnant of the armed Chechen separatist movement has become dominated by Salafis (popularly known in Russia as Wahhabis and present in Chechnya in small numbers since the 1990s), mostly abandoning nationalism in favor of Pan-Islamism and merging with several other regional Islamic insurgencies to form the Caucasus Emirate. At the same time, Chechnya under Moscow-backed authoritarian rule of Ramzan Kadyrov has undergone its own controversial counter-campaign of Islamization of the republic, with the local government actively promoting and enforcing their own version of a so-called \"traditional Islam\", including introducing elements of Sharia that replaced Russian official laws.\n\n"}
{"id": "57048340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57048340", "title": "Congolese Australians", "text": "Congolese Australians\n\nCongolese Australians are Australians of Congolese descent or who were born in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or the Republic of the Congo. The population of Congolese born Australians has increased significantly over the past 20 years, from just 21 at the 1996 Census to 5,522 at the 2016 Census.\n\nAlmost 75% of Congolese Australians have immmigrated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has experienced significant conflict and instability since gaining independence in 1960. This has resulted in around 1.8 million Congolese being internally displaced, with around 300,000 fleeing to neighbouring countries. Most immigrants from the Democratic Republic of the Congo have arrived in Australia after 2004 under the Australian Government's Humanitarian Program. Over 650 visas were issued to people from the Democratic Republic of the Congo under the Australian Government Humanitarian programme in 2015-16, being the fifth highest country. Between 2010-2016 Congolese refugees were in the top 10 nationalities accepted into Australia every year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8090922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8090922", "title": "Cooperation and Development Network Eastern Europe", "text": "Cooperation and Development Network Eastern Europe\n\nThe Cooperation and Development Network Eastern Europe (Acronym: CDN) is a capacity-building network of political green youth organisations from Central, Eastern and South Eastern Europe. CDN’s political focus is on Eastern Europe where the organisation works with local partners. CDN also collaborates with organisations and activists from the rest of Europe who want to support a Green Eastern Europe.\n\nCDN work is committed to upholding and fostering the values of the Green movement: gender equality, youth active participation in democracy, environmental protection. More elaboration on Green values is written at CDN's platform. \n\nCDN was founded in December 2002 with the goal of developing and supporting green youth organisations in Eastern and South Eastern Europe through cooperation and transfer of knowledge. With an active collaboration and support of FYEG and Green Forum Sweden, CDN is now a network of Young Greens in Eastern Europe which supports the Young Green organisations in the region. CDN is focused on but not limited to study sessions, seminars, summer camps and other regular co-learning activities among constant communication and collaboration between its member and partner organisations. Also differences in methodology of educational work and cultural differences made it clear, that the green ideology in practice has to be differently implemented in Eastern Europe then in the West.\n\nThe first activity done by CDN was the Summer Camp 2003 \"Peace and Reconciliation on the Balkan\" in Jahorina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, with 80 young participants from all over Europe.\n\nCDN was built through the structure of the Federation of Young European Greens (FYEG). Both organisations are forming a close connection, mainly because of common educational and political work. Also a lot of CDN member organisations are member of FYEG.\n\nCDN is a network build of Member and Partner organisations. Partner organisations are those organisations with seat in a country of the European Union. This distinction aims on focusing the work on organisations from non-EU countries and on showing a signal towards these organisations. It was decided on the Network Meeting 2005 in Bitola, Macedonia. In difference to Member organisations Partner organisations do not have voting right on the network meeting and only one of the member of the CDN Executive Committee can come from a Partner organisation.\n\nThe highest decision making body of CDN is the Network Meeting. All Partner and Member organisations can send up to two delegates. Each Member organisation has one vote. The CDN Network Meeting decides upon the budget of the last and the coming year, the political and work report of the last year, the activity plan for the coming year and it elects and dismiss the CDN Executive Committee.\n\nThe CDN Executive Committee is realizing the political and organisational work of CDN between two CDN Network Meetings based on the decisions of the CDN Network Meeting. The CDN Executive Committee consists of 5 members. At least two of them have to be female and only one of them can come from a Partner organisation. The CDN Executive Committee meets at least five times a year.\n\nSince mid-2006 CDN has a Gender Working Group. With the support of the CDN Network this Gender Groups on the issue of (un-)equal treatment of women and men in the societies of Eastern Europe. Mainly the question of compatibility of family and career which is a current problem of many young women in Eastern Europe is tackled by this Working Group.\n\nThe initiative for establishing CDN as a green network in Eastern Europe came from Macedonian Young Greens (DEM - Youth) and Serbian Young Greens supported by the Federation of Young European Greens in December 2002.\n\nSince its foundation CDN is sustainable supported by the Green Forum Sweden.\nAnother main source of support is the Council of Europe Youth foundation. The most of the current CDN activities are realized through the Council of Europe \"All different - All equal\" campaign.\nAlso from the very beginning CDN takes part in the Youth program of the European Commission, mainly through Exchanges. According to the changes in the Youth program (from 2007 \"Youth in Action\") future youth work in Eastern Europe will be closer to its necessaries.\n\nFurther more activities are realized through the support of the Bundesverwaltungsamt, Referat Internationaler Jugendaustausch im Bereich des Bundesministeriums für Familie, Senioren, Frauen und Jugend sowie des Auswärtigen Amtes (German Federal office for international youth exchange within the range of the Federal Ministry for family, seniors, women and youth as well as the Foreign Office) as well as Member of the European Parliament and the Federation of Young European Greens.\n\nThe main instrument of the educational work of CDN is the exchange of young people from all over Europe. These exchanges are either seminars (like the Summer Camp) under the support of the Council of Europe Youth Foundation, Youth Exchanges under Youth in action program of the European Commission, Study Sessions in the Budapest Study Center of the Council of Europe and Pilot Projects.\n\nFurther more the CDN homepage, e-lists and audiovisual materials are used for the exchange of knowledge and competence within the CDN Partner and Member organisations.\n\nThe activities which are planned for this year:\n\nStudy Session on Time Management and Youth participation in Budapest, Hungary\nSeminar on Ethnical minorities, Youth and conflict prevention in Belgrade, Serbia\nSummer Camp on Green Values for Southern Caucasus, Tbilisi, Beorgia\nYouth Exchange in Armenia\n\nCDN organized in partnership with FYEG a study session called \"The Glass ceiling is not your limit\" at the European Youth Center in Budapest, Hungary. The study session was focused on the participation of people who identify as women, trans and/or genderqueer in political, business and social structures. This education activity explored and analyzed the patriarchal patterns that prevent equal opportunities based on gender discrimination and to support participants to organize themselves and change their environment in order to remove barriers and enable their participation in political, business and social structures.\n\n, the following organisations are member of the Cooperation and Development Network Eastern Europe:\n\nFollowing organisations are partner of the Cooperation and Development Network Eastern Europe:\n\n"}
{"id": "58472132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58472132", "title": "Crime in Costa Rica", "text": "Crime in Costa Rica\n\nCosta Rica is a Central American nation that boasts of a noteworthy record on crime as compared to its neighbors in the region. It is one of few nations that have abolished their nation's armed forces. Having had a stable past, this country has been successful in developing its economy. However, since 2000 there has been a significant rise in criminal activity. Increase in domestic illegal activity, such as theft, homicide, and organised crime, has overwhelmed the local population. Sebastian Huhn reports that, \"In a public opinion poll in 2011, 45 percent of Costa Rican respondents said that crime and insecurity were the country’s biggest social problems.\" As a consequence of the overall societal changes, domestic-driven crime has been increasing in the environment that extends beyond traditional settings. Illegal activity, including distribution of weapons has been most commonly witnessed during the sporting events by 'barras' or fan clubs. Crime in Costa Rica, thus, is not only due to domestic crime groups but also transnational criminal organisations.\nAs Vice President Laura Chinchilla described in March 2008: \"\n\"Costa Rica was known in the world as a nation of peace and tolerance. Over the course of our history, we (have) learned to solve our differences and conflicts through dialogue and with respect for others. These distinctive traits have been challenged in recent years by the increase of crime and violence.\"\n\n\"Nearly 3 million people visited Costa Rica in 2017, and overall they spent $3.87 billion during their stay.\" Crime in Costa Rica that impacts tourists is usually in form of petty theft and occasional armed robberies. Especially at night tourists need to observe a high degree of precaution. Additionally, murder and sexual assault have also been types of crime that have been committed against tourists. Cases of Arancha Gutiérrez and María Trinidad Mathus, both occurring in August 2018, are the most recent examples of tourists suffering from the rise in criminal activity. These cases of murder and assault, respectively, indicate that crimes are escalating and are becoming quite severe. These cases additionally highlight the lack of punishment that offenders receive. For example, the two individuals linked to the Mathus case were arrested; however, one was released due to lack of evidence, and the other was sentenced to three months of pretrial detention. Similarly, in case of Arancha Gutiérrez, the man suspected and linked to the assault was released without any charges, and was transferred to the custody of the immigration police for being in the country illegally.\n\nIn August 2018, Tourism Minister Maria Amalia Revelo commented on the adverse impact that these deaths and assaults could have on tourism and the need for more police presence. The minister also highlighted the restrictions on her office's ability to respond to crimes due to the Costa Rican government's fiscal policy issues. Security Minister Micheal Soto also remarked that the nations image has already been damaged, which is reflected in the decrease in tourism. \n\n\"\"The nation of about five million people, still regarded as being one of the safest as compared to others in Central America, saw 603 homicides last year, according to preliminary data from the police service responsible for investigating them.\".\"\n\nPreviously, 2015 was the year in which homicide rates were the highest. Currently, the Costa Rican Star reports that there has been a decline in the rate of homicide in areas throughout Costa Rica. Most notably, this decline is in the areas of San Jose and Guanacaste, wherein numbers have reduced by 19% and 62% respectively. As of early 2018, 48% of the homicides accounted for in Costa Rica were linked to drug-related gang violence, with 25% being related to drug trafficking. \n\nCosta Rica’s main problem with drug trafficking relates to its geography and its prime maritime network that facilitates drug trafficking on an international scale. Costa Rica’s maritime jurisdiction is more than 11 times the size of its land mass, rendering it even more difficult to police and monitor trading activity. It has been reported that  “Between 2000 and 2015, the country’s murder rate nearly doubled from 6.3 to 11.5 per 100,000 citizens. Up to 70 percent of the violence has been associated with territorial battles between local drug gangs.”.\n\nAdditionally, Micheal Porth reported that Costa Rica has had a history of drug trafficking and money laundering since the mid-1980s. This has progressively worsened over the years and has become more reactionary to other international factors such as the United States' increase in border control and anti-drug operations. These operations have caused the drug trafficking organisations to use Costa Rica as their ‘pit-stop’ and preferred laundering area. The geography of the island makes it a prime location for hiding and transporting drugs. For example, the area of Limon that lies along the coast not only holds one of the main seaports but is also the main locale for drug trafficking. Additionally, the areas of the Gulf of Punta Arenas and Puerto Quepos, which lie on the Pacific coast, are used as refueling stops for shipments coming from neighboring areas of Colombia and Panama.\n\nThis issue has aggravated to the point that the Costa Rican Minister of Public Security, José María Tijerino Pacheco, has stated that without aid and intervention from nations such as the United States, “...the region is going to degenerate into another Mexico.”. The 2017 International Narcotics Control Strategy Report also highlighted the issue of money laundering occurring through banks. In March and April 2011, it was reported that nine Guatemalans who were linked to Mexican drug trafficking organisations were detained at the Paso Canoas and Peñas Blancas border crossings. A common issue that has underpinned drug trafficking is the change of influence of the neighboring nations. Influence has shifted from more group-orientated drug trafficking from Colombia to relatively prevalent independent and smaller groups as per the influence of the Mexican drug trafficker. Lack of resources and defence has been recognized by the government as the key factor in the inability to prevent and weaken the amount of drug trafficking that is occurring in Costa Rica. The Chamber of Commerce officials in Punta Arenas outlined that the drug cartels have come to portray themselves as fishing businesses and use strategies of coercion, either with or without weaponry or by paying other fisherman, to get the illicit substances on land. Most legitimate businesses, from farms to transport services, have been bought by Mexican cartels in the attempt to hide and transport cocaine.\n\nFurther, production of cannabis is also an issue in Costa Rica, particularly in an area called Talamanca. This remote area has also been highlighted as being involved with the trafficking of cocaine. \n\nDiscourse around crime rates in Costa Rica progressed throughout the late 1990s in an emotive manner and became more evident through the change in leadership, most notably through presidents Figueres, and Rodríguez. For example, in a speech by Miguel Ángel Rodríguez, he highlights the state of the prisons and the need for development of social policy and security.            \"The action against crime has made it necessary to expand the capacity of the prisons... To restore tranquility and seguridad ciudadana it will be essential to reform legislation, to help the police fight criminals and to avoid impunity... The people demand harsher laws against crime, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore ask you with humility and vehemence to answer those demands by passing these laws without delay\"Academics highlight that the perception of crime and its prevalence was to an extent manufactured by the government as a means to support the strict legislation that they put in place. Additionally, it is also suggested that the accuracy of statistics about the criminal activity occurring could be worse due to police violence.\n\n  \"General Health Law (Law 5395)\"\n\n \"Narcotics And Psychotropic Substances law (Law 8204) now reformed in 2009 to the  \" “Law on Narcotics, Psychotropic Substances, Unauthorised Drugs, Related Activities, Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism”.\n\n\nA recent study conducted by Oya Dursun-Özkanca outlined five key problems with the reforms made to the Securtiy Sector. These include the size of the police force, lack of resources, adequate training, especially for security matters that extended beyond their normal jurisdictions and fragmentation among organisations. \n\nIn an interview with the New York Times, it was reported by the coast guards in Puntarenas that they lacked adequate boating equipment to stop and search most of the skiffs that cross the waters.. This problem exists across all key ports in Costa Rica, as out of the 26 boats involved in the maritime security, only 14 function (as of 2011) \n\n\"Violent crime costs Central America an estimated $6.5 billion a year, equivalent to 7.7 percent of gross domestic product in the region, according to the study carried out in El Salvador...In total, the costs of violence amounted to $2.29 billion in Guatemala, $2.01 billion in El Salvador, $791 million in Costa Rica and $529 million in Nicaragua.\"\"\"It has been outlined that due to multiple decades of social programs and the allocation of funding towards more progressive social change, Costa Rica, in comparison to other nations in Central America, incurs lower cost when it comes to negating the consequences of crime. \n\nIn 2013, in collaboration with UNODC and the World Customs Organization, Costa Rican Government \"joined the Container Control Program after signing a memorandum of understanding with UNODC\". The main purpose of this project was to target illegal drug trafficking, smuggling and any main illegal activity taking place at the Port of Caldera (Puerto Caldera).\n\nIn July 2013, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNDOC) and the World Customs Organisation (WCO) provided training to Costa Rican customs officials with the intention of enhancing the ability of border patrol to recognize illicit substances immediately. This aided in creating an infrastructure for governments to detect illicit materials and increase responsiveness of certain maritime ports, which was the core aim of the Container Control Program. The Program was originally signed in 2010 and was supposed to be upheld only for three years. Due to the positive results that became evident from the program, an extension of this period was requested. “... Since its beginning in 2010 through July 2013, this Unit has achieved seizures of 1.6 tons of drugs, 9 containers with counterfeit goods of major brands and 2 containers of tax fraud.”.\nPurpose of this partnership is to improve the impact and the consistency of drug policy among nations. In 2017, the Costa Rican Drug Institute (\"Instituto Costarricense sobre Drogas\", ICD) hosted the first meeting of the working group of Latin American countries which was aimed at establishing a criteria on prevention. The meeting was successful in the sense that the attendees incorporated individual drug policies and strategies across multiple nations and were able to become more uniform in their public policy. In 2018, it was announced that the COPLAD organisation has and will be working with other organisations such as WHO,PAHO, EMCDDA and the UNODC, to support new plans to provide improved health services for those who use drugs. This plan will be implemented in all CELAC states, including Costa Rica. \n\nPreviously, the American Drug Enforcement Administration has aided in some of the largest seizures of illicit substances. \n\nAs of 2018, the U.S. Embassy in San Jose, Costa Rica, has announced funding to be integrated over the next two years. This funding is aimed towards enhancing and supporting US government objectives, and to this effect it focuses on the enhancement of security and government organization. An element of this is a part of a preexisting project, namely Central American Security Initiative (CCARSI), which partners with nations within Central America to reduce organised crime. \n"}
{"id": "51762635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51762635", "title": "Dhaka Ladies Club", "text": "Dhaka Ladies Club\n\nDhaka Ladies Club is a club for \"elite\" women in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Jahanara Munnan is the present president of the club.\n\nThe Club was opened in 1951 by a selected number of \"elite\" women. The founder of the club was Shamsia Shahbuddin who was the wife of the then Chief Justice' of East Pakistan Justice Shahabuddin. In 1955 one acre of land was bought in Eskaton, Dhaka by the then President of the club, Begum Amiruddin.\n\nThe club was registered under Joint Stock companies Act in 1960. The club is run 16 members Executive Committee who are elected for terms of three years. The club runs regular and music schools for underprivileged children in Dhaka. Former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia holds press conferences in the club auditorium.\n"}
{"id": "25862818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25862818", "title": "Ekkirala Bharadwaja", "text": "Ekkirala Bharadwaja\n\nEkkirala Bharadwaja (30 October 1938 – 12 April 1989) authored many Hindu spiritual books, primarily on the life and worship of Shirdi Sai Baba and Dattatreya. His Telugu-language book \"Sri Sai Leelamrutham\" is widely sold.\n\nEkkirala Bharadwaja was born at Bapatla and was a post-graduate in English literature. He left the Indian Administrative Service after having a profound spiritual experience at the Samadhi Mandir of Sai Baba of Shirdi, thereafter becoming a lecturer of English literature because that gave him opportunity to spread his master's teachings.\n\nBharadwaja researched the lives and teachings of several saints, travelling extensively and personally contacting many of them. He insisted on the necessity of a Sadguru to direct devotees in their spiritual path. The culmination of all this is a series of books on Sai Baba and many other saints. He believed Sai Baba to be the matchless saint, a blend of all religions and the answer to all the questions of the present day and spirituality.\n\nBharadwaja died on 12 April 1989.\n\nBharadwaja founded the Shirdi Sai Cultural Mission at Vidyanagar and the Sai Baba Mission in Ongole. He also founded a Telugu-language fortnightly publication, \"Sai Baba\", that is now produced monthly and continues to spread his messages. The publication inspired the construction of several Sai Baba temples. His thoughts are now promoted by the Sri Master Universal Sai Trust & Acharya Bharadwaja Peace Foundation in Ongole, Andhra Pradesh.\n\n"}
{"id": "392400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392400", "title": "Ethnic groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Ethnic groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nMore than 96% of population of Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to one of its three autochthonous constituent nations: Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats. The term \"constituent\" refers to the fact that these three ethnic groups are explicitly mentioned in the constitution, and that none of them can be considered a minority or immigrant. The most easily recognizable feature that distinguishes the three ethnic groups is their religion, with Bosniaks predominantly Muslim, Serbs predominantly Orthodox Christians, and Croats Catholic.\n\nWhile each ethnic group have their own standard language variant and a name for it, they speak, depending on view, one pluricentric language or three mutually intelligible languages. On a dialectal level, Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks speak a variety of Shtokavian dialects which have fixed phonetic, morphological and lexical minor differences. The question of standard language is resolved in such a way that three constituent ethnic groups have their educational and cultural institutions in their respective native or mother tongue languages: Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian.\n\nA Y chromosome haplogroups study published in 2005 found that \"three main groups of Bosnia-Herzegovina, in spite of some quantitative differences, share a large fraction of the same ancient gene pool distinctive for the Balkan area\". The study did however find that Serbs and Bosniaks are genetically closer to each other than either of them is to Croats.\n\nOn 12 February 1998, Alija Izetbegović, at the time Chair of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, instituted proceedings before the Constitutional Court for an evaluation of the consistency of the Constitution of the Republika Srpska and the Constitution of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The request was supplemented on 30 March 1998 when the applicant specified which provisions of the Entities' Constitutions he considered to be unconstitutional.\n\nThe four partial decisions were made in 2000, by which many of articles of the constitutions of entities were found to be unconstitutional, which had a great impact on the politics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there was a need to adjust the current state in the country with the decision of the Court. A narrow majority (5-4) ruled in favour of the applicant. In its decision, among other things, the Court stated:\n\nThe formal name of this item is \"U-5/98\", but it is widely known as the \"Decision on the constituency of peoples\" (), referring to the Court's interpretation of the significance of the phrase \"constituent peoples\" used in the Preamble of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The decision was also the basis for other notable cases that came before the court.\n\nSome argue that a Bosnian identity (in the non-religious sense) goes back centuries, the Serb and Croat for Christian Bosnians a century, and Bosniak (Bosnian Muslim) even more recently. \n\nDuring the Ottoman Empire, the term \"Boşnak\" was used to describe Bosnians (of the Bosnia Eyalet) in an ethnic or \"tribal\" sense. After the Austro-Hungarian occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878, the Austrian administration officially endorsed Bosnianhood as the basis of a multi-confessional Bosnian nation. The policy aspired to isolate Bosnia and Herzegovina from its irredentist neighbors (Orthodox Serbia, Catholic Croatia, and the Muslims of the Ottoman Empire) and to negate the concept of Croatian and Serbian nationhood which had already begun to take ground among Bosnia and Herzegovina's Catholic and Orthodox communities, respectively.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes were the constituent (\"old\") nations. During the reign of King Aleksandar I, a modern single Yugoslav identity was unsuccessfully propagated to erase the particularistic identities. With the formation of Socialist Yugoslavia, there were six republics and five constitutive nations, adding Macedonians and Montenegrins (whose identities were not earlier recognized); the Bosnian Muslims were recognized only in the late 1960s.\n\nFor the 1961 census a new ethnic category was introduced–\"Muslims\"–with which 972,954 Bosnians identified. In 1964, the \"Muslims\" were declared a \"narod\" (\"people\"), as the other five \"peoples\", but were not ascribed a national republic. In 1968, the Bosnian Central Committee declared that \"...Muslims are a distinct nation\". For the 1971 census, accordingly, \"Muslims, in the sense of a nation\" was introduced.\n\nSerbs tend to be Orthodox Christian, Croats tend to be Roman Catholic, and Bosniaks (or Bosnian Muslims) tend to be Sunni Muslim. Tensions between these were expressed in terms of religion. Fundamentalists existed on all sides; in propaganda the Bosnian War took on some features of a \"religious war\", supported by views of religious leaders. Historical stereotypes and prejudice were further established by experiences of war. The situation still impedes the development of relations post-war. Religious symbols are used for nationalist purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1161168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1161168", "title": "Gautami", "text": "Gautami\n\nGautami Tadimalla is an Indian film actress who has worked mainly in Tamil films, although she also appeared in successful films in Telugu, Malayalam, Hindi and Kannada cinema. She is also a television actress, television host “LifeAgainFoundation founder and costume designer.\n\nGautami went to GITAM University in Visakhapatnam to pursue Engineering. She made her first appearance at the age of 17 in the Telugu film \"Dayamayudu\", that was produced by her cousin.\n\nShe was introduced to Tamil films through \"Guru Shishyan\", a film that starred Rajinikanth and Prabhu. She was most active in Tamil cinema from 1987 to 1998 and was a tough competitor to the other heroines of her time, Kushboo and Bhanupriya. Her filmography includes classics like \"Apoorva Sagodharargal\", \"Raja Chinna Roja\", \"Thevar Magan\", \"Panakkaran\", \"Guru Sishyan\", \"Ooru Vittu Ooru Vanthu\", \"Dharma Durai\", \"Rickshaw Mama\" as well as Mani Ratnam's \"Iruvar\" (1997), which co-starred Mohanlal, Prakash Raj, Aishwarya Rai, Tabu, Nassar and Revathi.\n\nShe has acted in the Tamil serial \"Indira\" in the lead role. She made a guest appearance in the song \"Chikku Bukku Railu\" with Prabhu Deva in the film \"Gentleman\". She had hosted a talk show in Sun TV titled \"Anbudan\" which was launched to compete with \"Koffee with Anu\" running on STAR Vijay. She acted in the serial Abirami which was telecast on Kalaignar TV. She made a comeback to the film industry in the late 2000s as a costume designer for films starring her partner Kamal Haasan. She won the Vijay Award for Best Costume Designer for \"Dasavathaaram\". After sixteen years, she returned to acting by starring in the Tamil film \"Papanasam\" in which she was paired with her partner Kamal Haasan.\n\nShe was diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 35, and recovered from it.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22579001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22579001", "title": "Gender differences in social network service use", "text": "Gender differences in social network service use\n\nMen and women use social network services (SNSs) differently and with different frequencies. In general, several researchers have found that women tend to use SNSs more than men and for different and more social purposes.\n\nTechnologies, including communications technologies, have a long history of shaping and being shaped by the gender of their users. Although technologies used to perform housework have an apparent historical connection to gender in many cultures, a more ready connection to SNSs may be drawn with telephones as a communications technology readily and widely available in the home. Telephone use has long had gendered connections ranging from the widespread assumption that women simply talk more than men, and the employment of women as telephone operators. In particular, young women have been closely associated with extensive and trivial use of the telephone for purely social purposes. Similarly, women's use of and influence on the development of computers has been trivialized while significant developments in computers have been masculinized. Thus the idea that there may be both real and perceived differences in how men and women use SNSs – and that those uses may shape the SNSs – is neither new nor surprising and has historical analogues.\n\nThere is historical and contemporary evidence that current fears about young girls' online safety have historical antecedents such as telegraphs and telephones. Further, in many cases those historical reactions resulted in restrictions of girls' use of technology to protect them from predators, molesters, and other criminals threatening their innocence. Like current fears focused on computer use, particularly SNSs and other communication media, these fears are most intense when the medium enters the home. These fears have the potential to – at least temporarily – overwhelm the positive and empowering uses of these technologies. These historical fears are echoed in contemporary media accounts of youths' use of SNSs.\n\nFinally, the histories of some SNSs themselves have ties with gender. For example, gay men were one of the earliest groups to join and use the early SNS Friendster.\n\nMany studies have found that women are more likely to use either specific SNSs such as Facebook or MySpace or SNSs in general. In 2015, 73% of online men and 80% of online women used social networking sites. The gap in gender differences has become less apparent in LinkedIn. In 2015 about 26 percent of online men and 25% of online women used the business-and employee-oriented networking site.\n\nResearchers who have examined the gender of users of multiple SNSs have found contradictory results. Hargittai's groundbreaking 2007 study examining race, gender, and other differences between undergraduate college student users of SNSs found that women were not only more likely to have used SNSes than men but that they were also more likely to have used many different services, including Facebook, MySpace, and Friendster; these differences persisted in several models and analyses. Although she only surveyed students at one institution – the University of Illinois at Chicago – Hargittai selected that institution intentionally as \"an ideal location for studies of how different kinds of people use online sites and services.\" In contrast, data collected by the Pew Internet & American Life Project found that men were more likely to have multiple SNS profiles. Although the sample sizes of the two surveys are comparable – 1,650 Internet users in the Pew survey compared with 1,060 in Hargittai's survey – the data from the Pew survey are newer and arguably more representative of the entire adult United States population.\n\nIn general, women seem to use SNSs more to explicitly foster social connections. A study conducted by Pew research centers found that women were more avid users of social media. In November 2010, the gap between men and women was as high as 15%. Female participants in a multi-stage study conducted in 2007 to discover the motivations of Facebook users scored higher on scales for social connection and posting of photographs. Studies have also been conducted on the differences between females and males with regards to blogging. The Pew Research Center found that younger females are more likely blog than males their own age, even males that are older than them. Similarly, in a study of blogs maintained in MySpace, women were found to be more likely to not only write blogs but also write about family, romantic relationships, friendships, and health in those blogs. A study of Swedish SNS users found that women were more likely to have expressions of friendship, specifically in the areas of (a) publishing photos of their friends, (b) specifically naming their best friends, and (c) writing poems to and about their friends. Women were also more likely to have expressions related to family relationships and romantic relationships. One of the key findings of this research is that those men who do have expressions of romantic relationships in their profile had expressions just as strong as the women. However, the researcher speculated that this may be in part due to a desire to publicly express heterosexual behaviors and mannerisms instead of merely expressing romantic feelings.\n\nA large-scale study of gender differences in MySpace found that both men and women tended to have a majority of female Friends, and both men and women tended to have a majority of female \"Top\" Friends in the site.\nA later study found women to author disproportionately many (public) comments in MySpace,\nbut an investigation into the role of emotion in public MySpace comments found that women both give and receive stronger positive emotion.\nIt was hypothesised that women are simply more effective at using social networking sites because they are better able to harness positive emotion.\n\nA study focused on the influence of gender and personality on individuals’ use of online social networking websites such as Facebook, reported that men use social networking sites with the intention of forming new relationships, whereas, women use them more for relationship maintenance. (Muscanell and Guadagno, 2012)\nIn addition to this, women are more likely to use Facebook or MySpace to compare themselves to others and also to search for information. Men, however, are more likely to look at other people's profiles with in the intention to find friends. (Haferkamp et al., 2012) \n\nPrivacy has been the primary topic of many studies of SNS users, and many of these studies have found differences between male and female SNS users, although some studies have found results contradictory to those found in other studies.\n\nSome researchers have found that women are more protective of their personal information and more likely to have private profiles. Other researchers have found that women are less likely to post some types of information. Acquisti and Gross found that women in their sample were less likely to reveal their sexual orientation, personal address, or cell phone number. This is similar to Pew Internet & American Life research of children users of SNSs that found that boys and girls presented different views of privacy and behaviors, with girls being more concerned about and restrictive of information such as city, town, last name, and cell phone number that could be used to locate them. At least one group of researchers has found that women are less likely to share information that \"identifies them directly – last name, cell phone number, and address or home phone number,\" linking that resistance to women's greater concerns about \"cyberstalking\", \"cyberbullying\", and security problems.\n\nDespite these concerns about privacy, researchers have found that women are more likely to maintain up-to-date photos of themselves. Further, Kolek and Saunders found in their sample of college student Facebook users that women were more likely to not only post a photograph of themselves in their profile but that they were more likely to have a publicly viewable Facebook account (a contradictory finding compared to many other studies), post photos, and post photo albums.\n\nWomen were more likely to have: (a) a publicly viewable Facebook account, (b) more photo albums, (c) more photos, (d) a photo of themselves as their profile picture, (e) positive references to alcohol, partying, or drugs, and (f) more positive references to or about the institution or institution-related activities. In general, women were more likely to disclose information about themselves in their Facebook profile, with the primary exception of sharing their telephone number. Similarly, female respondents to Strano's study were more likely to keep their profile photo recent and choose a photo that made them appear attractive, happy, and fun-loving. Citing several examples, Strano opined that there may also be a difference in how men and women Facebook users display and interpret profile photos depicting relationships.\n\nPrivacy has also been a concern for the SnapChat app, which allows you to send messages either text or photo or video which then disappear. One study has shown that security is not a major concern for the majority of users and that most do not use Snapchat to send sensitive content (although up to 25% may do so experimentally). As part of their research almost no statistically significant gender differences were found.\n\nCyberbullying\n\nPast research carried out to investigate if there are any gender differences in cyber-bulling has found that boys commit more cyber verbal bullying, cyber forgery and more violence based on hidden identity or presenting themselves as other person. (Sincek 2014).\n\nAlthough men and women users of SNSs exhibit different behavior and motivations, they share some similarities. For example, one study that examined the veracity of information shared on SNSs by college students found that men and women were as likely to \"provide accurate and complete information about their birthday, schedule of classes, partner's name, AIM, or political views.\"\n\nIn contradiction to several of the studies described above that found that women are more likely to be SNS users, at least one very reputable study has found that men and women are equally likely to be SNS users. Data gathered in December 2008 by the Pew Internet & American Life Project showed that the SNS users in their sample were equally divided among men and women. As mentioned above, the data from the Pew survey are newer and arguably more representative of the entire adult United States population than the data in much of the previously described research.\n\nSome studies have found that traditional gender roles are present in SNSs, with men in this study conforming to traditional views of masculinity and the women to traditional views of femininity. Qualitative work with college student SNS users by Martínez Alemán and Wartman and Managgo \"et al.\" have found similar results for both Facebook and MySpace users. Moreover, the work by Managgo \"et al.\" discovered not only traditional gender roles and images but sexualisation of women users of MySpace. Similarly, research into the impact of comments in the profile of a Facebook users on that user's perceived attractiveness revealed a \"sexual double standard\", wherein negative statements resulted in male profile owners being judged more attractive and female profile owners less attractive. Finally, at least one study has found that men and women SNS users both left textual clues about their gender.\n\nIn February 2014, Facebook announced the vast expansion of options for choosing gender identities to list on profiles, ranging to up to 56 gender identity choices. In August 2014, Facebook followed up with allowing gender-neutral relationship identities for identifying family members.\n\n"}
{"id": "44132916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44132916", "title": "Generations in the workforce", "text": "Generations in the workforce\n\nThe working environment has gone through a major transformation over the last decade, particularly in terms of population in the workforce. The three generations dominating the workforce in 2013 are Baby Boomers, Generation X and Generation Y. The coming decades will see further changes with emergence of newer generations, and slower removal of older generations from organisations as pension age is pushed out. Many reports, including a publication by Therese Kinal and Olga Hypponen of Unleash, warn that understanding differences between the generations, and learning to adapt their management practices is critical to building a successful multigenerational workplace.\n\nBaby Boomers, born approximately between 1946 and 1964 were brought up in a healthy post war economy and saw the world revolving around them as the largest generation of the century. Their lifestyle is to live for work and they often expect the same level of dedication and work ethics from the next generations. They are said to prefer face to face communication, are interactive team players and attain personal fulfilment from work. Baby Boomers are often branded workaholics leaving little to no work-life balance which has inevitably led to a breakdown in family values which has influenced the next generation. They are said to be loyal to their organisations, enjoy the notion of lifetime employment and prefer to be valued or needed as opposed to rewarded with recognition or money. An article by Emma Simon in the \"Daily Telegraph\" describes them as the 'post war generation' who have enjoyed an \"unbroken run of good-luck\".\n\nGeneration X is the generation born after the Western post-World War II Baby Boomers between approximately 1965 and 1980. The term was noted by photographer Robert Capa in the early 1950s. Of the generation, Capa said \"We named this unknown generation, The Generation X, and even in our first enthusiasm we realised that we had something far bigger than our talents and pockets could cope with.\"\n\nThis generation of workers were brought up in the shadow of the influential Boomer generation and as a result, are independent, resilient and adaptable. In contrast to the Baby Boomers who live to work, this generation works to live and carry with them a level of cynicism. They prefer freedom to manage their work and tasks their own way. They consider a job to be just that, and are comfortable questioning authority.\n\nComing out of and during the recession, there has been a significant shift in Gen X moving to management roles. Perceptions of Gen X managers are high according to an online survey published by Ernst & Young. Out of 200 people, 57% of respondents believed that Gen X displayed each of the survey’s positive characteristics and were thought to be best at managing through difficult times.\n\nThe Y generation, also referred to as \"Millennials\" were born around 1980 to 2000. They have been described in a report published by United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund as the next big generation after the Baby Boomers. They were raised during the good time or empowerment years and are the first generation to grow up with computers and the internet. In her book, The Shift: The future of work is already here, Grattan states that this generation admire these new platforms they use even though they grew up with them.\nA report published by Adecco on workplace revolution outlined Gen Y’s work ethics and behaviours. According to the report, they enjoy a work life balance, akin to Gen X, and prefer to work with bright and creative people. They are participative as opposed to directive, enjoy multi-tasking and are goal oriented. They are also considered the most educated and self-aware generation in employment.\n\nAccording to an Ernest & Young report on the rise of young managers in the workplace, this generation were not considered to be team players and have an attitude of entitlement. This was also noted by Jean Twenge in her book \"Generation me\". In terms of management, they are considered inclusive leaders and enjoy diversification and input when making decisions.\n\nThe future generation of workers, according to Amy Glass, are referred to as generation Z. Generation Z are those born approximately after 2000 and are even more reliant on new technology and in particular communication technologies. There is little knowledge yet of this generation in terms of attitude and characteristics in the workplace given that the eldest of this generation are now coming into their late teens. In the next decade however, we can expect to see this generation joining the workforce.\n\n‘The Next Generation of Workers’ written by Lily Guthrie of The Ken Blanchard Companies, Office of the Future, highlights the importance of awareness and understanding of the attitudes of the intergenerational workforce. Companies will need to be collaborative, innovative and agile in their operations and management. There are many reports on the management of a cohort of generations in the workplace, including one from the psychology foundation of Canada which provides effective strategies, training, and education that they believe will bridge the differences between the generations.\n\n"}
{"id": "161796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161796", "title": "German Labour Front", "text": "German Labour Front\n\nThe German Labour Front (, ; DAF) was the National Socialist labour organisation which replaced the various independent trade unions in Germany after Adolf Hitler's rise to power.\n\nIts leader was Robert Ley, who stated that its aim was 'to create a true social and productive community'. Theoretically, DAF existed to act as a medium through which workers and owners could mutually represent their interests. Wages were set by the 12 DAF trustees. The employees were given relatively high set wages and security of employment, and dismissal was increasingly made difficult. Social security and leisure programmes were started, canteens, breaks, and regular working times were established, and German workers were generally satisfied by what the DAF gave them in repayment for their absolute loyalty.\n\nFollowing the National Socialist’s \"Volksgemeinschaft\" approach towards developing a greater \"people's community\", the DAF expanded or established new social, educational, sports, health, and entertainment programs for German workers via the Strength through Joy, which included factory libraries and gardens, periodic breaks, swimming pools, low-priced hot meals, adult education programs, periodic work breaks, physical education, sports facilities, gymnastic training, orchestral music during lunch breaks, free tickets to concerts and opera, and subsidized vacations that saw over 10.3 million Germans signed up by 1938. The DAF financed the building of ocean-going vessels that permitted German workers to pay minimal prices to sail to many foreign destinations. Up to six ocean liners were operating just before the start of World War II. According to the chief of the Associated Press in Berlin, Louis P. Lochner, ticket prices for ocean streamer vessels ranged from twelve to sixteen marks for \"a full week on such a steamer\". For those who desired vacations closer to home, the DAF constructed spa and summer resort complexes. One of the largest was located on the island of Rugen, where the DAF financed and erected a \"summer resort with 20,000 beds\".\n\nTo help finance such ambitious social programs, the DAF also operated one of the largest financial institutions—the Bank of German Labour—along with additional community programs such as medical screening, occupational training, legal assistance and programs to improve the company's working environment. The DAF was one of the largest National Socialist organizations, boasting of over 35,000 full-time employees by 1939. To help Hitler keep his promise to have every German capable of owning an affordable car (Volkswagen—the People’s Car) the DAF subsidized the construction of an automobile factory, which was partially paid from worker’s payroll deductions. None of the 340,000 workers who were paying for a car ever received one, since the factory had to be retooled for war production after Nazi Germany invaded Poland.\n\nIn the case of workplace abuses, the DAF set up worker councils to regulate and manage business practices, along with working hours and wages, and conflicts rising between employers and workers. In 1934, worker councils dismissed over 50 workers, while in the same year 13 employers were punished through the expropriation of their business.\n\nEmployment contracts created under the Weimar Republic were abolished and renewed under new circumstances in the DAF. Employers could demand more of their workers, while at the same time workers were given increased security of work and increasingly enrolled into social security programmes for workers. The organisation, by its own definition, combated capitalism and liberalism, but also revolution against the factory owners and the National Socialist state. The DAF, however, did openly prefer to have large companies nationalised by the German state, instead of privately owned companies.\n\nDAF membership was theoretically voluntary, but any workers in any area of German commerce or industry would have found it hard to get a job without being a member. Membership required a fee within the range of 15 pfennig to three Reichsmark, depending on the category a member fell into in a large scale of 20 membership groups. A substantially large amount of income was raised through fees. In 1934, the total intake was 300,000,000 Reichsmark. In US dollars, the annual income from dues to the Labour Front came to $160,000,000 in 1937 and $200,000,000 by 1939.\nThere were two main components of the DAF and these were:\n\nSeveral other sub-organisations were set up:\n\nThe Front also organised the \"Reichsberufswettkampf\", a national vocational competition.\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "41041238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41041238", "title": "Ghanaian Australians", "text": "Ghanaian Australians\n\nGhanaian Australians are Australian citizens and residents of Ghanaian origin and descent. More than 50% of those who are Ghana-born live in Sydney.\n\nThe Special Commonwealth African Assistance Plan allowed students from West African countries, including from Ghana, to come to Australia the mid-1960s. More than 70 per cent of these students remained in Australia following military coups in their countries. While small in number, the Ghana-born steadily increased from the mid-1970s following the easing of immigration restrictions. The majority of Ghanaian Australians are skilled and educated, with 70.6% of the Ghana-born aged 15 years and over possessing higher non-school qualifications, compared to 55.9% of the Australian population.\n\nThe 2011 Census noted there were 3,866 Ghana-born people in Australia. Akan, Ewe and Ga all have many speakers in Australia. Akan has over 2,100 speakers and Ewe has over 400 speakers. Some of the over 10,700 Australian-born who speak an African language may also speak a Ghanaian language.\n\nIt was noted in 2014 that the Ghanaian student population in Australia (like the Nigerian one) was growing fast to the extent that Australian universities were keen to attract more students from Ghana.\n\nAfrican restaurants serving up Ghanaian specialties can be found in Sydney.\n\n"}
{"id": "1967307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1967307", "title": "Gudipati Venkatachalam", "text": "Gudipati Venkatachalam\n\nGudipati Venkata Chalam aka Chalam (1894–1979), a Telugu writer and philosopher, was one of the most influential personalities in modern Telugu literature.\n\nMost of his writings were regarding women, especially the kind of difficulties women encounter—physical as well as psychological—in society, from their families and from those with whom they are close. Chalam discussed how he believed women should face these problems. The themes philosophical tinge of his writings blended with a distinctive style which would earn for him an enviable place in the Telugu literary world.\n\nMuch that is known about Chalam’s childhood comes from his 1972 autobiography titled \"Chalam\". In it, he vividly mentions how he suffered beatings from his father and how his mother, residing at her parents’ home even after having been married and starting a family with her husband, had to face a flurry of insults. Chalam brazenly puts across why he wrote his autobiography in its foreword:\n\nKnown more widely as \"Chalam\"', Gudipati Venkata Chalam was born on 18 May 1894 in Chennai in India. His mother was Venkata Subbamma and his father was Kommuri Sambasivarao. In his childhood, his maternal grandfather adopted him and his surname was changed to \"Gudipati\" from \"Kommuri\". He used to practice Hindu rituals very religiously. Before he completing, he had committed himself to an exhaustive study of Hindu epics as well as Hindu doctrinal teachings. The way his father abused his mother made an indelible impression on his young mind. Besides this, the manner in which his sister \"Ammmanni\" (Venkata Ramanamma, Dulla) was coerced into an arranged marriage against her will also made him concentrate on the difficulties that women faced in society.\n\nChalam joined Pithapuram Maharaja College in 1911. At that time, he was attracted by the preachings of Raghupati Venkata Ratnam Naidu—a social reformer and founder of the Brahma Samaj in Andhra. Chalam went to Chennai to study for his Bachelor of Arts. Before joining the college, he was married to Chitti Ranganayakamma. While studying for his degree in Chennai, he got his wife admitted into a convent for her education and he used to drop her at school on his bicycle. This was a spectacle for the people to see -a husband dropping off the wife on his cycle. Chalam stopped wearing the sacred thread (Yagnopaveetham), started eating non-vegetarian food (Brahmins were strict vegetarians) and he used to mingle with all castes. This infuriated all his relatives and more so his father-in-law. His father-in-law banished him from entering his house. By that time, Chalam's wife's age was merely 13. When his mother-in-law died, Chalam and his friends were not allowed in his father-in-law's the house for the funeral, and they were served food outside.\n\nAfter completing his studies in Madras, Chalam joined in a job as tutor in Kakinada. Again, he started participating in the Brahma Samaj activities. He also became busy with his friendship with a beautiful girl named \"Ratnamma\" who happened to be his friend's sister-in-law. He worked as a teacher in Karimnagar. Then he joined in a job with Teacher's Training College in Rajahmundry. He later became a school inspector. About his job, Chalam wrote in his famous book \"Musings\" (in Telugu language) (Page 72, 5th Print in 2005) as follows:\n\nI am a stone, slave of the government, school inspector and for the poor mice like teachers, I am the cat.\n\nChalam's daughter, a devotee of Ramana Maharshi, maintains an ashram at Bheemili,Visakhapatnam.\n\nNovels\n\n\"Maidanam\", \"Sasirekha\", \"Dyvamicchina bharya\", \"Jeevitadarsam\", \"Brahmanikam\", 'Vivaham. \"'Aruna\", \"Anusuya' 'Ameena.'\n\nShort story collections\n\n\"Jealousy\", \"Aa rathri\", \"Prema paryavasanam\", \"Satyam Sivam Sundaram\", \"Vedantam\", Doshagunam, maadiga ammayi,maamagari \"\"maryada, mukkaalupeeta,mukthimaargam,mosamchesindha,yavvanavvanam,rasaputhrulu,raamabakthudu,raavanadarshanam,reddyrangamma,lancham,lakshimdevi,lakshmiuthharam, villytho snejam ela ayyindante?, vaani-a-study,vaallu naluguru, vichitranaleeyam, vithanthuvu, vennelathotalu, vendantham, vontarithanam, shamantakamanitho interview, sheshamma, saraswathee prasannam, cinema saayam, seethathalli, seethayya, sugandhi, susheela, stationpampu, hamko mohabbath, hampeekanyalu,hathya vicharana, harijana vidhyardhi, harijana samasya, hindhumusalmaan, nakshatrakaanthi, kamalaanehru samadhi vadda,anusooya...(many more to be updated reference from vishalandhra book house)\"\n\nNon-Fiction\n\n\"Musings\", \"Papam\", \"Prema Lekhalu\", \"Stree\", \"Biddala Shikshana\"\n\nChalam was a strong critic of the fundamental societal architecture of his time. He believed that the barriers created by the society precluded love and mutual understanding from human relationships.\n\nIn a society that believed in children being indebted to their parents, he proclaimed caring for and bringing up of children as the fundamental duty as parents.\n\nHe was widely shunned during his times especially for his advocacy of women’s rights and his total rejection of the family system.\nHis Short story Doshagunam was adapted as a Grahanam movie.\n\n\"Stri oka mata valla,chupu vallaa purushuniki Sandichhindaa...ika atani adhikaraniki,korikalaki,vinnapalaki antam undadu. Asalu paryavasanam akkarleni stri modatininchi vimukhamgane undali...nippu vale undali,kaalanu kudadani chala mandi moorkhula aasa...\"\n\n\"స్త్రీ ఒక మాట వల్ల,చూపు వల్లా పురుషునికి సందిచ్చిందా...ఇక అతని అధికారానికి, కోరికలకి, విన్నపాలకి అంతం ఉండదు. అసలు పర్యవసానం అక్కర్లేని స్త్రీ మొదటినించి విముఖంగానే ఉండాలి...నిప్పు వలె ఉండాలి, ...\"\nThe novel Maidanam made an indelible mark on the reader for its free and frank way of expression, the relationship between man and woman disregarding caste and creed.\n\n"}
{"id": "72156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72156", "title": "Human population planning", "text": "Human population planning\n\nHuman population planning is the practice of intentionally controlling the rate of growth of a human population. Historically, human population planning has been implemented with the goal of increasing the rate of human population growth. However, in the period from the 1950s to the 1980s, concerns about global population growth and its effects on poverty, environmental degradation and political stability led to efforts to reduce human population growth rates. More recently, some countries, such as Iran and Spain, have begun efforts to increase their birth rates once again.\n\nWhile population planning can involve measures that improve people's lives by giving them greater control of their reproduction, a few programs, most notably the Chinese government's \"one-child policy and two-child policy\", have resorted to coercive measures.\n\nFour types of population planning goals pursued by governments can be identified:\n\nWhile a specific population planning practice may be legal/mandated in one country, it may be illegal or restricted in another, indicative of the controversy surrounding this topic.\n\nPopulation planning that is intended to reduce a population or sub-population's growth rates may promote or enforce one or more of the following practices, although there are other methods as well:\n\n\nThe method(s) chosen can be strongly influenced by the religious and cultural beliefs of community members. The failure of other methods of population planning can lead to the use of abortion or infanticide as solutions.\n\nPopulation policies that are intended to increase a population or sub-population's growth rates may use practices such as:\n\n\nA number of ancient writers have reflected on the issue of population. At about 300 BC, the Indian political philosopher Chanakya (c. 350-283 BC) considered population a source of political, economic, and military strength. Though a given region can house too many or too few people, he considered the latter possibility to be the greater evil. Chanakya favored the remarriage of widows (which at the time was forbidden in India), opposed taxes encouraging emigration, and believed in restricting asceticism to the aged.\n\nIn ancient Greece, Plato (427-347 BC) and Aristotle (384-322 BC) discussed the best population size for Greek city-states such as Sparta, and concluded that cities should be small enough for efficient administration and direct citizen participation in public affairs, but at the same time needed to be large enough to defend themselves against hostile neighbors. In order to maintain a desired population size, the philosophers advised that procreation, and if necessary, immigration, should be encouraged if the population size was too small. Emigration to colonies would be encouraged should the population become too large. Aristotle concluded that a large increase in population would bring, \"certain poverty on the citizenry, and poverty is the cause of sedition and evil.\" To halt rapid population increase, Aristotle advocated the use of abortion and the exposure of newborns (that is, infanticide).\n\nConfucius (551-478 BC) and other Chinese writers cautioned that, \"excessive growth may reduce output per worker, repress levels of living for the masses and engender strife.\" Confucius also observed that, \"mortality increases when food supply is insufficient; that premature marriage makes for high infantile mortality rates, that war checks population growth.\"\n\nAncient Rome, especially in the time of Augustus (63 BC- AD 14), needed manpower to acquire and administer the vast Roman Empire. A series of laws were instituted to encourage early marriage and frequent childbirth. Lex Julia (18 BC) and the Lex Papia Poppaea (AD 9) are two well known examples of such laws, which among others, provided tax breaks and preferential treatment when applying for public office for those that complied with the laws. Severe limitations were imposed on those who did not. For example, the surviving spouse of a childless couple could only inherit one-tenth of the deceased fortune, while the rest was taken by the state. These laws encountered resistance from the population which led to the disregard of their provisions and to their eventual abolition.\n\nTertullian, an early Christian author (ca. AD 160-220), was one of the first to describe famine and war as factors that can prevent overpopulation. He wrote: \"The strongest witness is the vast population of the earth to which we are a burden and she scarcely can provide for our needs; as our demands grow greater, our complaints against Nature's inadequacy are heard by all. The scourges of pestilence, famine, wars and earthquakes have come to be regarded as a blessing to overcrowded nations, since they serve to prune away the luxuriant growth of the human race.\"\n\nIbn Khaldun, a North African Arab polymath (1332–1406), considered population changes to be connected to economic development, linking high birth rates and low death rates to times of economic upswing, and low birth rates and high death rates to economic downswing. Khaldoun concluded that high population density rather than high absolute population numbers were desirable to achieve more efficient division of labour and cheap administration.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages in Christian Europe, population issues were rarely discussed in isolation. Attitudes were generally pro-natalist in line with the Biblical command, \"Be ye fruitful and multiply.\"\n\nEuropean cities grew more rapidly than before, and throughout the 16th century and early 17th century discussions on the advantages and disadvantages of population growth were frequent. Niccolò Machiavelli, an Italian Renaissance political philosopher, wrote, \"When every province of the world so teems with inhabitants that they can neither subsist where they are nor remove themselves elsewhere... the world will purge itself in one or another of these three ways,\" listing floods, plague and famine. Martin Luther concluded, \"God makes children. He is also going to feed them.\"\n\nJean Bodin, a French jurist and political philosopher (1530–1596), argued that larger populations meant more production and more exports, increasing the wealth of a country. Giovanni Botero, an Italian priest and diplomat (1540–1617), emphasized that, \"the greatness of a city rests on the multitude of its inhabitants and their power,\" but pointed out that a population cannot increase beyond its food supply. If this limit was approached, late marriage, emigration, and war would serve to restore the balance.\n\nRichard Hakluyt, an English writer (1527–1616), observed that, \"Throughe our longe peace and seldome sickness... wee are growen more populous than ever heretofore;... many thousandes of idle persons are within this realme, which, havinge no way to be sett on worke, be either mutinous and seeke alteration in the state, or at leaste very burdensome to the commonwealthe.\" Hakluyt believed that this led to crime and full jails and in \"A Discourse on Western Planting\" (1584), Hakluyt advocated for the emigration of the surplus population. With the onset of the Thirty Years' War (1618–48), characterized by widespread devastation and deaths brought on by hunger and disease in Europe, concerns about depopulation returned.\n\nIn the 20th century, population planning proponents have drawn from the insights of Thomas Malthus, a British clergyman and economist who published \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\" in 1798. Malthus argued that, \"Population, when unchecked, increases in a geometrical ratio. Subsistence increases only in an arithmetical ratio.\" He also outlined the idea of \"positive checks\" and \"preventative checks.\" \"Positive checks\", such as diseases, war, disaster, famine, and genocide are factors that Malthus considered to increase the death rate.\n\"Preventative checks\" were factors that Malthus believed to affect the birth rate such as moral restraint, abstinence and birth control. He predicted that \"positive checks\" on exponential population growth would ultimately save humanity from itself and that human misery was an \"absolute necessary consequence.\" Malthus went on to explain why he believed that this misery affected the poor in a disproportionate manner.\n\nFinally, Malthus advocated for the education of the lower class about the use of \"moral restraint\" or voluntary abstinence, which he believed would slow the growth rate.\n\nPaul R. Ehrlich, a US biologist and environmentalist, published \"The Population Bomb\" in 1968, advocating stringent population planning policies. His central argument on population is as follows:\n\nIn his concluding chapter, Ehrlich offered a partial solution to the \"population problem,\"\n\"[We need] compulsory birth regulation... [through] the addition of temporary sterilants to water supplies or staple food. Doses of the antidote would be carefully rationed by the government to produce the desired family size\".\n\nEhrlich's views came to be accepted by many population planning advocates in the United States and Europe in the 1960s and 1970s. Since Ehrlich introduced his idea of the \"population bomb,\" overpopulation has been blamed for a variety of issues, including increasing poverty, high unemployment rates, environmental degradation, famine and genocide. In a 2004 interview, Ehrlich reviewed the predictions in his book and found that while the specific dates within his predictions may have been wrong, his predictions about climate change and disease were valid. Ehrlich continued to advocate for population planning and co-authored the book \"The Population Explosion\", released in 1990 with his wife Anne Ehrlich.\n\nHowever, it is controversial as to whether human population stabilization will avert environmental risks.\n\nPaige Whaley Eager argues that the shift in perception that occurred in the 1960s must be understood in the context of the demographic changes that took place at the time. It was only in the first decade of the 19th century that the world's population reached one billion. The second billion was added in the 1930s, and the next billion in the 1960s. 90 percent of this net increase occurred in developing countries. Eager also argues that, at the time, the United States recognised that these demographic changes could significantly affect global geopolitics. Large increases occurred in China, Mexico and Nigeria, and demographers warned of a \"population explosion,\" particularly in developing countries from the mid-1950s onwards.\n\nIn the 1980s, tension grew between population planning advocates and women's health activists who advanced women's reproductive rights as part of a human rights-based approach. Growing opposition to the narrow population planning focus led to a significant change in population planning policies in the early 1990s.\n\nOpinions vary among economists about the effects of population change on a nation's economic health. US scientific research in 2009 concluded that the raising of a child cost about $16,000 yearly ($291,570 total for raising the child to its 18th birthday). In the US, the multiplication of this number with the yearly population growth will yield the overall cost of the population growth. Costs for other developed countries are usually of similar order of magnitude.\n\nSome economists, such as Thomas Sowell and Walter E. Williams, have argued that poverty and famine are caused by bad government and bad economic policies, not by overpopulation.\n\nIn his book \"The Ultimate Resource\", economist Julian Simon argued that higher population density leads to more specialization and technological innovation, which in turn leads to a higher standard of living. He claimed that human beings are the ultimate resource since we possess \"productive and inventive minds that help find creative solutions to man’s problems, thus leaving us better off over the long run\". He also claimed that, \"Our species is better off in just about every measurable material way.\" \n\nSimon also claimed that when considering a list of countries ranked in order by population density, there is no correlation between population density and poverty and starvation. Instead, if a list of countries is considered according to corruption within their respective governments, there is a significant correlation between government corruption, poverty and famine.\n\nAs early as 1798, Thomas Malthus argued in his Essay on the Principle of Population for implementation of population planning. Around the year 1900, Sir Francis Galton said in his publication \"Hereditary Improvement\": \"The unfit could become enemies to the State, if they continue to propagate.\" In 1968, Paul Ehrlich noted in \"The Population Bomb\", \"We must cut the cancer of population growth\", and \"if this was not done, there would be only one other solution, namely the 'death rate solution' in which we raise the death rate through war-famine-pestilence etc.”\n\nIn the same year, another prominent modern advocate for mandatory population planning was Garrett Hardin, who proposed in his landmark 1968 essay \"Tragedy of the commons\", society must relinquish the \"freedom to breed\" through \"mutual coercion, mutually agreed upon.\" Later on, in 1972, he reaffirmed his support in his new essay \"Exploring New Ethics for Survival\", by stating, \" We are breeding ourselves into oblivion.\" Many prominent personalities, such as Bertrand Russell, Margaret Sanger (1939), John D. Rockefeller, Frederick Osborn (1952), Isaac Asimov, Arne Næss and Jacques Cousteau have also advocated for population planning.\nToday, a number of influential people advocate population planning such as these:\n\n\nThe head of the UN Millennium Project Jeffrey Sachs is also a strong proponent of decreasing the effects of overpopulation. In 2007, Jeffrey Sachs gave a number of lectures (2007 Reith Lectures) about population planning and overpopulation. In his lectures, called \"Bursting at the Seams\", he featured an integrated approach that would deal with a number of problems associated with overpopulation and poverty reduction. For example, when criticized for advocating mosquito nets he argued that child survival was, \"by far one of the most powerful ways,\" to achieve fertility reduction, as this would assure poor families that the smaller number of children they had would survive.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has opposed abortion, sterilization, and artificial contraception as a general practice but especially in regard to population planning policies. Pope Benedict XVI has stated, \"The extermination of millions of unborn children, in the name of the fight against poverty, actually constitutes the destruction of the poorest of all human beings.\"\n\nIn Protestantism, at least an organisation called \"ChurchCouncil.org\" (which does not reveal any actual churches as members on its web site) wrote a \"Reformed Theology ICCP Document Topic 24 Article 20\" which states that \"We affirm that human multiplication and filling of the Earth are intrinsically good (Genesis 1:28) and that, in principle, children, lots of them, are a blessing from God to their faithful parents and the rest of the Earth (Psalm 127; 128). We deny that the Earth is overpopulated; that “overpopulation” is even a meaningful term, since it cannot be defined by demographic quantities such as population density, population growth rate, or age distribution; and that godly dominion over the Earth requires population control or “family planning” to limit fertility.\" The reformed Theology pastor Dr. Stephen Tong also opposes the planning of human population.\n\nThe Nation has criticised some white Quiverfull families for having large families motivated by racism and worries about \"race suicide\".\n\nIn 1946, Poland introduced a , discontinued in the 1970s, as part of natalist policies in the Communist government. From 1941 to the 1990s, the Soviet Union had a similar tax to replenish the population losses incurred during the Second World War.\n\nThe Socialist Republic of Romania under Nicolae Ceaușescu severely repressed abortion, (the most common birth control method at the time) in 1966, and forced gynecological revisions and penalties for unmarried women and childless couples.\nThe surge of the birth rate taxed the public services received by the \"decreţei 770\" (\"Scions of the Decree 770\") generation. A consequence of Ceaușescu's natalist policy is that large numbers of children ended up living in orphanages, because their parents could not cope. The vast majority of children who lived in the communist orphanages were not actually orphans, but were simply children whose parents could not afford to raise them. The Romanian Revolution of 1989 preceded a fall in population growth.\n\nNativity in the Western world dropped during the interwar period. Swedish sociologists Alva and Gunnar Myrdal published Crisis in the Population Question in 1934, suggesting an extensive welfare state with universal healthcare and childcare, to increase overall Swedish birth rates, and level the number of children at a reproductive level for all social classes in Sweden. Swedish fertility rose throughout World War II (as Sweden was largely unharmed by the war) and peaked in 1946.\n\nAustralia currently offers fortnightly Family Tax Benefit payments plus a free immunisation scheme, and recently proposed to pay all child care costs for women who want to work.\n\nThe most significant population planning system in the world was China's one-child policy, in which, with various exceptions, having more than one child was discouraged. Unauthorized births were punished by fines, although there were also allegations of illegal forced abortions and forced sterilization. As part of China's planned birth policy, (work) unit supervisors monitored the fertility of married women and may decide whose turn it is to have a baby.\n\nThe Chinese government introduced the policy in 1978 to alleviate the social and environmental problems of China. According to government officials, the policy has helped prevent 400 million births. The success of the policy has been questioned, and reduction in fertility has also been attributed to the modernization of China. The policy is controversial both within and outside of China because of its manner of implementation and because of concerns about negative economic and social consequences e.g. female infanticide. In oriental cultures, the oldest male child has responsibility of caring for the parents in their old age. Therefore, it is common for oriental families to invest most heavily in the oldest male child, such as providing college, steering them into the most lucrative careers, and so on. To these families, having an oldest male child is paramount, so in a one-child policy, a daughter has no economic benefit, so daughters, especially as a first child, is often targeted for abortion or infanticide. China introduced several government reforms to increase retirement payments to coincide with the one-child policy. During that time, couples could request permission to have more than one child.\n\nAccording to Tibetologist Melvyn Goldstein, natalist feelings run high in China's Tibet Autonomous Region, among both ordinary people and government officials. Seeing population control \"as a matter of power and ethnic survival\" rather than in terms of ecological sustainability, Tibetans successfully argued for an exemption of Tibetan people from the usual family planning policies in China such as the one-child policy.\n\nIn November 2014, the Chinese government allowed its people to conceive a second child under the supervision of government regulation.\n\nOn October 29, 2015, the ruling Chinese Communist Party announced that all one-child policies would be scrapped, allowing all couples to have two children. The change was needed to allow a better balance of male and female children, and to grow the young population to ease the problem of paying for the aging population.\n\nOnly those with two or fewer children are eligible for election to a gram panchayat, or local government.\n\n\"We two, our two\" (\"Hum do, hamare do\" in Hindi) is a slogan meaning \"one family, two children\" and is intended to reinforce the message of family planning thereby aiding population planning.\n\nFacilities offered by government to its employees are limited to two children. The government offers incentives for families accepted for sterilization. Moreover, India was the first country to take measures for family planning back in 1951.\n\nAfter the Iran–Iraq War, Iran encouraged married couples to produce as many children as possible to replace population lost to the war.\n\nIran succeeded in sharply reducing its birth rate from the late 1980s to 2010. Mandatory contraceptive courses are required for both males and females before a marriage license can be obtained, and the government emphasized the benefits of smaller families and the use of contraception. This changed in 2012, when a major policy shift back towards increasing birth rates and against population planning was announced. In 2014, permanent contraception and advertising of birth control were to be outlawed.\n\nIn Israel, Haredi families with many children receive economic support through generous governmental child allowances, government assistance in housing young religious couples, as well as specific funds by their own community institutions. Haredi women have an average of 6.7 children while the average Jewish Israeli woman has 3 children.\n\nJapan has experienced a shrinking population for many years. The government is trying to encourage women to have children or to have more children – many Japanese women do not have children, or even remain single. The population is culturally opposed to immigration.\n\nSome Japanese localities, facing significant population loss, are offering economic incentives. Yamatsuri, a town of 7 000 just north of Tokyo, offers parents $4 600 for the birth of a child and $460 a year for 10 years.\n\nIn Myanmar, the Population planning Health Care Bill requires some parents to space each child three years apart. The measure is expected to be used against the persecuted Muslim Rohingyas minority.\n\nRussian President Vladimir Putin directed Parliament in 2006 to adopt a 10-year program to stop the sharp decline in Russia's population, principally by offering financial incentives and subsidies to encourage women to have children.\n\nSingapore has undergone two major phases in its population planning: first to slow and reverse the baby boom in the Post-World War II era; then from the 1980s onwards to encourage couples to have more children as the birth rate had fallen below the replacement-level fertility. In addition, during the interim period, eugenics policies were adopted.\n\nThe anti-natalist policies flourished in the 1960s and 1970s: initiatives advocating small families were launched and developed into the \"Stop at Two\" programme, pushing for two-children families and promoting sterilisation. In 1984, the government announced the \"Graduate Mothers' Scheme\", which favoured children of more well-educated mothers; the policy was however soon abandoned due to the outcry in the general election of the same year.\nEventually, the government became pro-natalist in the late 1980s, marked by its \"Have Three or More\" plan in 1987. Singapore pays $3,000 for the first child, $9,000 in cash and savings for the second; and up to $18,000 each for the third and fourth.\n\nIn 2017, the government of Spain appointed a \"minister for sex\", in a pro-natalist attempt to reverse a \"negative\" population growth rate.\n\nIn May 2012, Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan argued that abortion is murder and announced that legislative preparations to severely limit the practice are underway. Erdogan also argued that abortion and C-section deliveries are plots to stall Turkey's economic growth. Prior to this move, Erdogan had repeatedly demanded that each couple have at least three children.\n\nEnacted in 1970, Title X of the Public Health Service Act provides access to contraceptive services, supplies and information to those in need. Priority for services is given to people with low incomes. The Title X Family Planning program is administered through the Office of Population Affairs under the Office of Public Health and Science.\nIt is directed by the Office of Family Planning. In 2007, Congress appropriated roughly $283 million for family planning under Title X, at least 90 percent of which was used for services in family planning clinics. Title X is a vital source of funding for family planning clinics throughout the nation, which provide reproductive health care, including abortion.\n\nThe education and services supplied by the Title X-funded clinics support young individuals and low-income families. The goals of developing healthy families are accomplished by helping individuals and couples decide whether to have children and when the appropriate time to do so would be.\n\nTitle X has made the prevention of unintended pregnancies possible. It has allowed millions of American women to receive necessary reproductive health care, plan their pregnancies and prevent abortions. Title X is dedicated exclusively to funding family planning and reproductive health care services.\n\nTitle X as a percentage of total public funding to family planning client services has steadily declined from 44% of total expenditures in 1980 to 12% in 2006. Medicaid has increased from 20% to 71% in the same time. In 2006, Medicaid contributed $1.3 billion to public family planning.\n\nIn a 2004 editorial in \"The New York Times\", David Brooks expressed the opinion that the relatively high birthrate of the United States in comparison to Europe could be attributed to social groups with \"natalist\" attitudes. The article is referred to in an analysis of the Quiverfull movement. However, the figures identified for the demographic are extremely low.\n\nFormer US Senator Rick Santorum made natalism part of his platform for his 2012 presidential campaign. This is not an isolated case. Many of those categorized in the General Social Survey as \"Fundamentalist Protestant\" are more or less natalist, and have a higher birth rate than \"Moderate\" and \"Liberal\" Protestants. However, Rick Santorum is not a Protestant but a practicing Catholic.\n\nIt is reported that Uzbekistan has been pursuing a policy of forced sterilizations, hysterectomies and IUD insertions since the late 1990s in order to impose population planning.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13525690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13525690", "title": "Intention economy", "text": "Intention economy\n\nThe intention economy is an approach to viewing markets and economies focusing on buyers as a scarce commodity. The consumers' intent to buy drives the production of goods to meet their specific needs. It is also the title of Doc Searls book: \"\" published in May, 2012.\n\nDoc Searls coined the term in an article for Linux Journal. He wrote:\n\"The Intention Economy grows around buyers, not sellers. It leverages the simple fact that buyers are the first source of money, and that they come ready-made. You don't need advertising to make them.\"\n\nDespite the advancement of the internet businesses are still seller oriented. Even successful businesses like Google still have the point of view of the sellers, with their revenue coming nearly all from advertising. Searls describes the current condition as a series of silos. The only option a buyer has is merely moving from silo to silo. Nothing has fundamentally changed.\n\nSome sites have similar characteristics of an intention economy. For example, flight booking services Priceline.com, which let users name their price for an airline ticket still functions like a \"silo.\" In an intention economy a site like Priceline might serve as an intermediary with the airline coordinating new flight dates and times that correspond around the buyers intentions.\n\nCompanies need to be able to respond to a customer's precise needs. \"Mass customization, in a lot of areas it is no longer inherently necessary that I get the exact same thing as a million other people. A computer manufacturer can be geared for assembling a computer just for me, to my specifications. A travel agency can construct a travel plan particularly for me.\"\n\nSearls gives an example of intention economy scenario: \"A car rental customer should be able to say to the car rental market, 'I'll be skiing in Park City from March 20–25. I want to rent a 4-wheel drive SUV. I belong to Avis Wizard, Budget FastBreak and Hertz 1 Club. I don't want to pay up front for gas or get any insurance. What can any of you companies do for me?' — and have the sellers compete for the buyer's business.\"\n\nTrendwatching.com describes two problems with intention economy sites. \"...Most of these ‘information brokers’ focus on only one product/category. Many of them also work (too) closely with a limited set of suppliers. Sites that seem to act like intention economy sites are not. For example, Priceline which lets customers name their own price and then matches it with the (pre-set) minimum prices that airlines, hotels and rental car companies have provided Priceline.com with this space remains wide open for intention-brokers who can handle a variety of intentions per customer, and genuinely operate on behalf of those customers.\" \n\nTrendwatching lists examples of intention economy sites currently online:\n"}
{"id": "4863251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4863251", "title": "Jaggayya (actor)", "text": "Jaggayya (actor)\n\nKongara Jaggayya (31 December 1926 – 5 August 2004) was an Indian film actor, littérateur, journalist, lyricist, dubbing artist and politician known for his works predominantly in Telugu cinema and Telugu theatre. Regarded as one of the finest method actors of Indian cinema, he was known as \"Kanchu Kantham Jaggayya\" (Telugu) for his booming voice. In a film career spanning forty years as a matinee idol, he starred in eighty films, as a lead actor, and lead antagonist in a variety of genres.\n\nDuring his early career he portrayed breakthrough characters in works such as \"Donga Ramudu\" (1955), which was archived by the Film and Television Institute of India, He starred in award winning works such as \"Bangaru Papa\" (1954), \"Ardhangi\" (1955), \"Edi Nijam\" (1956), \"Todi Kodallu\" (1957), \"Dr. Chakravarti\" (1964), \"Antastulu\" (1965), the Cannes Film Festival featured \"Meghasandesam\" (1982), and Seethakoka Chiluka (1981); all of which won the National Film Award for Best Feature Films in Telugu. In 1962, he co-produced and starred in the political drama film \"Padandi Munduku\" based on Salt March, the film was screened at the International Film Festival of India, the Tashkent Film Festival, and got a special mention at the 5th Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nAs a character actor he received critical appreciation for his performance in notable works such as \"Velugu Needalu\" (1961), \"Chitti Tammudu\" (1962), \"Aaradhana\" (1962), \"Aatma Balam\" (1964), \"Sumangali\" (1965), \"Gudi Gantalu\" (1965), \"Nava ratri\" (1966), \"Aame Evaru?\" (1966), \"Aastiparulu\" (1966), \"Jarigina Katha\" (1969), \"Bala Mitrula Katha\" (1972), \"Badi Pantulu\" (1972), \"Devudu Chesina Manushulu\" (1973). He portrayed British official Rutherford in the biographical film \"Alluri Sita Rama Raju\" (1974), and essayed Pontius Pilate in the hagiographical film \"Karunamayudu\" (1978). He then appeared in works such as \"Veta\" (1986), \"Chantabbai\" (1986), \"Pasivadi Pranam\" (1987), and \"Dharma Kshetram\" (1992). He has won the Andhra Pradesh state Nandi Award for Best Character Actor for his works in some of these films. A recipient of the Tamil Nadu state's Kalaimamani, the Government of India has honored him with the Padma Bhushan in 1992 for his contributions towards Indian cinema.\n\nJaggayya was born to Kongara Seetaramaih and Rajya Lakshmamma. He was born in a well-to-do family in Morampudi village near Tenali in Guntur district. He quoted on several occasions in his essays the influence his father had on his interest towards arts. He started acting at the age of 11, with the role of Lava in a Hindi play during his high school days in Duggirala. He got trained in the art of painting under the guidance of Adivi Bapiraju, a noted painter, during his college days. \n\nAs a student, he joined the Congress Socialist party in Tenali, which was involved in the Indian Independence Movement at that time. \n\nHe joined the Andhra-Christian College, in 1942, in Guntur for his higher studies. He used to be a member of Navya Sahitya Parishath in Guntur. Later he joined a periodical named \"Desabhimani\" (meaning \"Patriot\") as a journalist.Later he worked as an editor for the weekly Andhra Republic. During his B.A. days in A-C College, he along with N. T. Rama Rao, acted in several plays. He also used to be a part of Navajyothi Artists, a cultural organisation run by Mukkamala. After working as a teacher in Duggirala for a brief while, he became a news announcer in Akashavani for three years.Jaggayya won the best actor award in three successive years for \"Chesina Papam\" and \"Telangana\". \n\nHe made his cinematic debut in 1952 drama film \"Priyuralu\" directed by Tripuraneni Gopichand. This movie was produced by Donepudi Krishnamurthy, also known popularly as Gokul Krishnamurthy. He quit the job as news announcer as he signed three movies on a trot. His second movie, \"Adarsham,\" didn't do well at box office. His planned third movie \"Paleru\" did not even see light of the day. \n\n\"Bangaru Papa,\" directed by B N Reddy, released in 1955, was the first breakthrough film for Jaggayya. He was distinguished for his booming voice and contributed as a voice artist for more than hundred feature films. He dubbed in Telugu language for veteran Sivaji Ganesan. He was the narrator, and dubbing artist for internationally recognized works such as Maa Bhoomi, and Richard Attenborough's character of John Hammond in the Telugu-dubbed version of the Hollywood film \"Jurassic Park\". He acted in almost 100 films as a lead, 100 more as a co-lead and almost 200 films as a character artist. He was a part of almost every film of VB Rajendra Parasad's \"Jagapathi Pictures,\" K B Tilak's \"Anupama Pictures\" and \"Ramavijeta Films\" owned by brothers Prabhakar and Baburao. His last film as an actor was \"Kunthi Putrudu,\" which starred Mohan Babu as lead and was directed by Dasari Narayana Rao.\n\nHe turned into producer with a film \"Padandi Munduku,\" under the banner of \"Jagruthi Chitra.\" The film was released in January 1962 and was a regarded as first Telugu social film made on the basis of Indian Independence movement. \n\nHe was awarded the 'Kala Vachaspathi' for his sonorous voice.\n\nJaggayya was active in politics right from his student days and was allied with the socialist group within the Congress party. When the group was disbanded, he joined Jayaprakash Narayan's Praja Socialist Party, but returned to Congress in 1956, heeding the call of Jawaharlal Nehru. In 1967, he was elected as a member of the fourth Lok Sabha, the lower house of the Parliament of India from the constituency of Ongole on a Congress Party ticket. He was the first Indian film actor to be elected as a member of parliament.\n\nHe translated Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore's Geetanjali and multiple poems into Telugu under the name \"Ravindra Geetha\". He also translated Tagore's play \"Sacrifice\" into Telugu under the name \"Balidaanam\". He also co-founded \"Manasvini Charitable Trust\" to honor the film literature of \"Acharya Athreya.\" The lyrics of all the film songs written by Athreya was consolidated into seven volumes. \n\n\n\n\n\nHe underwent a Hip Replacement surgery and complications after the surgery resulted in his death.\n"}
{"id": "21816871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21816871", "title": "John L. Kane Jr.", "text": "John L. Kane Jr.\n\nJohn Lawrence Kane Jr. (born February 14, 1937) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Colorado.\n\nBorn in Tucumcari, New Mexico, Kane received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Colorado Boulder in 1958 and a Juris Doctor from the Sturm College of Law at the University of Denver in 1960. He was a law clerk for the Seventeenth Judicial District of Colorado from 1960 to 1961. He worked in private practice in Brighton, Colorado from 1961 to 1963. He was a deputy district attorney of the Seventeenth Judicial District of Colorado from 1961 to 1963. He was in private practice in Denver, Colorado in 1964. He was the public defender of Adams County in Brighton, Colorado from 1965 to 1967. He was the Deputy Director of the Peace Corps in the Eastern Region of India in Calcutta (now Kolkata), India from 1967 to 1968. He was a Country Representative of the Peace Corps in Turkey from 1968 to 1969. He was an Instructor at Metropolitan State University of Denver from 1973 to 1974. He was in private practice in Denver from 1970 to 1977. He was an adjunct professor at Sturm College of Law from 1978 to 1988. He was a visiting lecturer in law at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland in 1989. He was the Miller Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law at Sturm College of Law from 1990 to 1996. He was an adjunct professor at the University of Colorado Law School from 1996 to present.\n\nKane was nominated by President Jimmy Carter on November 2, 1977, to a seat on the United States District Court for the District of Colorado vacated by Judge Alfred Albert Arraj. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on December 15, 1977, and received his commission on December 16, 1977. He assumed senior status due to a certified disability on April 8, 1988. His disability was sleep apnea, brought about by work related stress. Despite being granted early senior status, he has continued to work a reduced, but substantial caseload to the present.\n\nKane was interviewed by his daughter as part of StoryCorps on NPR's \"Morning Edition\" on October 8, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "49077638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49077638", "title": "Khuda Bakhsh Marri", "text": "Khuda Bakhsh Marri\n\nJustice Mir Khuda Bakhsh Marri () was the Governor of Balochistan, Pakistan from 5 July 1977 – 18 September 1978. He was appointed as Chief Justice of Sindh and Balochistan, Pakistan in 1976. He also served as acting Chief Minister of Balochistan in 1989.\n"}
{"id": "5962511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5962511", "title": "Kim Jong-un", "text": "Kim Jong-un\n\nKim Jong-un (officially transcribed Kim Jong Un; ; ; born 8 January 1983) is a North Korean politician serving as Supreme Leader of North Korea since 2011 and Leader of the Workers' Party of Korea since 2012. Kim is the second child of Kim Jong-il (1941–2011) and Ko Yong-hui (1952–2004). The grandson of Kim Il-sung, the first leader of North Korea from 1948 to 1994, he is the first North Korean leader to have been born after the country's founding.\n\nFrom late 2010, Kim Jong-un was viewed as heir apparent to the leadership of the DPRK, and following the elder Kim's death, he was announced as the \"Great Successor\" by North Korean state television. Kim holds the titles of Chairman of the Workers' Party of Korea (as First Secretary between 2012 and 2016), Chairman of the Central Military Commission, Chairman of the State Affairs Commission, Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army, and member of the Presidium of the Politburo of the Workers' Party of Korea, the highest decision-making body in North Korea. Kim was promoted to the rank of Marshal of North Korea in the Korean People's Army on 18 July 2012, consolidating his position as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces and is often referred to as Marshal Kim Jong-un or \"the Marshal\" by state media. Kim obtained two degrees, one in physics at Kim Il-sung University, and another as an Army officer at the Kim Il-sung Military University.\n\n\"Forbes\" magazine ranked Kim the 46th most powerful person in the world in 2013 and the third highest amongst Koreans after Ban Ki-moon and Lee Kun-hee. On 12 December 2013, North Korean news outlets reported that Kim Jong-un had ordered the execution of his uncle Jang Song-thaek due to \"treachery\". On 9 March 2014, Kim was elected unopposed to the Supreme People's Assembly. He is widely believed to have ordered the assassination of his half-brother, Kim Jong-nam, in Malaysia in February 2017.\n\nDespite tense relations, North Korea agreed to participate in the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. Following the Olympics, Kim Jong-un and President Moon Jae-in conducted the April 2018 inter-Korean summit. It was the first time since the end of the Korean War in 1953 that a North Korean leader entered the South's territory. On 12 June 2018, Kim Jong-un and US President Donald Trump met for the 2018 North Korea–United States summit in Singapore, the first-ever talks held between a North Korean leader and a sitting US President, to discuss the North Korean nuclear program.\n\nScarce information on Kim Jong-un's early life comes from North Korean defectors and people who have claimed to witness him abroad, such as during his school attendance in Switzerland. Some of the information has been conflicting and contradictory, perhaps confusing him with his brother, Kim Jong-chul, who also attended school in Switzerland around the same time.\n\nNorth Korean authorities and state-run media have stated that Kim's birthdate was 8 January 1982, but South Korean intelligence officials believe the actual date is a year later. It is thought that Kim's official birth year was changed for symbolic reasons; 1982 marks 70 years after the birth of his grandfather, Kim Il-sung, and 40 years after the official birth of his father Kim Jong-il. The US Treasury Department lists Kim Jong-un's official birthdate as 8 January 1984. Former basketball star Dennis Rodman said that this was Kim's birthdate after meeting in September 2013 in North Korea.\n\nKim Jong-Un was the second of three children Ko Yong-hui bore to Kim Jong-il; his elder brother Kim Jong-chul was born in 1981, while his younger sister, Kim Yo-jong, is believed to have been born in 1987.\n\nAccording to reports first published in Japanese newspapers, he went to school in Switzerland near Bern. First reports claimed he attended the private English-language International School in Gümligen under the name \"Chol-pak\" or \"Pak-chol\" from 1993 to 1998. He was described as shy, a good student who got along well with his classmates and was a basketball fan. He was chaperoned by an older student, who was thought to be his bodyguard.\n\nLater, it was reported that Kim Jong-un attended the Liebefeld Steinhölzli state school in Köniz near Bern under the name \"Pak-un\" or \"Un-pak\" from 1998 until 2000 as the son of an employee of the North Korean embassy in Bern. Authorities of Köniz confirmed that a student from North Korea, registered as the son of a member of the embassy, attended the school from August 1998 until the autumn of 2000, but were unable to give details about his identity. Pak-un first attended a special class for foreign-language children and later attended the regular classes of the 6th, 7th, 8th, and part of the final 9th year, leaving the school abruptly in the autumn of 2000. He was described as a well-integrated and ambitious student who liked to play basketball. However, his grades and attendance rating are reported to have been poor. The ambassador of North Korea in Switzerland, Ri Chol, had a close relationship with him and acted as a mentor. One of Pak-un's classmates told reporters that he had told him that he was the son of the leader of North Korea. According to some reports, Kim was described by classmates as a shy child who was awkward with girls and indifferent to political issues, but who distinguished himself in sports and had a fascination with the American National Basketball Association and Michael Jordan. One friend claimed that he had been shown pictures of Pak-un with Kobe Bryant and Toni Kukoč.\n\nIn April 2012, new documents came to light indicating that Kim Jong-un had lived in Switzerland since 1991 or 1992, earlier than previously thought.\n\nThe Laboratory of Anatomic Anthropology at the University of Lyon, France, after comparing the picture of the boy Pak-un taken at the Liebefeld Steinhölzli school in 1999 with a picture of Kim Jong-un from 2012 came to the conclusion that the two faces show a conformity of 95%. The head of the institute, Raoul Perrot, a forensic anthropologist, considers it most likely that the two pictures show the same person.\n\nIt is believed that the student at the Gümligen International School may not have been Kim Jong-un, but his elder brother Kim Jong-chul. It is not known whether the student known as Pak-un in Liebefeld Steinhölzli lived in Switzerland prior to 1998. All the children of Kim Jong-il are said to have lived in Switzerland, as well as the mother of the two youngest sons, who lived in Geneva for some time.\n\nMost analysts agree that Kim Jong-un attended Kim Il-sung University, a leading officer-training school in Pyongyang, from 2002 to 2007.\n\nIn late February 2018, Reuters reported that Kim and his father had used forged passports—supposedly issued by Brazil and dated 26 February 1996—to apply for visas in various countries. Both 10-year passports carry a stamp saying \"Embassy of Brazil in Prague\". Kim Jong-un's passport records the name \"Josef Pwag\" and a date of birth of 1 February 1983.\n\nFor many years, only one confirmed photograph of him was known to exist outside North Korea, apparently taken in the mid-1990s, when he was eleven. Occasionally other supposed images of him surfaced but were often disputed. It was only in June 2010, shortly before he was given official posts and publicly introduced to the North Korean people, that more pictures were released of Kim, taken when he was attending school in Switzerland. The first official image of him as an adult was a group photograph released on 30 September 2010, at the end of the party conference that effectively anointed him, in which he is seated in the front row, two places from his father. This was followed by newsreel footage of him attending the conference.\n\nKim Jong-un's eldest half-brother, Kim Jong-nam, had been the favorite to succeed, but reportedly fell out of favor after 2001, when he was caught attempting to enter Japan on a fake passport to visit Tokyo Disneyland. Kim Jong-nam was killed in Malaysia in 2017 by suspected North Korean agents.\n\nKim Jong-il's former personal chef, Kenji Fujimoto, revealed details regarding Kim Jong-un, with whom he had a good relationship, stating that he was favored to be his father's successor. Fujimoto also said that Jong-un was favored by his father over his elder brother, Kim Jong-chul, reasoning that Jong-chul is too feminine in character, while Jong-un is \"exactly like his father\". Furthermore, Fujimoto stated that \"if power is to be handed over then Jong-un is the best for it. He has superb physical gifts, is a big drinker and never admits defeat.\" Also, according to Fujimoto, Jong-un smokes Yves Saint Laurent cigarettes, loves Johnnie Walker whisky and has a Mercedes-Benz 600 luxury sedan. When Jong-un was 18, Fujimoto described an episode where Jong-un once questioned his lavish lifestyle and asked, \"we are here, playing basketball, riding horses, riding jet skis, having fun together. But what of the lives of the average people?\" On 15 January 2009, the South Korean news agency Yonhap reported that Kim Jong-il had appointed Kim Jong-un to be his successor.\n\nOn 8 March 2009, BBC News reported that Kim Jong-un was on the ballot for elections to the Supreme People's Assembly, the rubber stamp parliament of North Korea. Subsequent reports indicated that his name did not appear on the list of lawmakers, but he was later elevated to a mid-level position in the National Defense Commission, which is a branch of the North Korean military.\nFrom 2009, it was understood by foreign diplomatic services that Kim was to succeed his father Kim Jong-il as the head of the Korean Workers' Party and \"de facto\" leader of North Korea. He has been named \"Yŏngmyŏng-han Tongji\" (영명한 동지), which loosely translates to \"Brilliant Comrade\". His father had also asked embassy staff abroad to pledge loyalty to his son. There have also been reports that citizens in North Korea were encouraged to sing a newly composed \"song of praise\" to Kim Jong-un, in a similar fashion to that of praise songs relating to Kim Jong-il and Kim Il-sung. Later, in June, Kim was reported to have visited China secretly to \"present himself\" to the Chinese leadership, who later warned against North Korea conducting another nuclear test. The Chinese foreign ministry has strongly denied that this visit occurred.\n\nIn September 2009, it was reported that Kim Jong-il had secured support for the succession plan, after a propaganda campaign. It is believed by some that Kim Jong-un was involved in the \"Cheonan\" sinking and the bombardment of Yeonpyeong to strengthen his military credentials and facilitate a successful transition of power from his father.\n\nKim Jong-un was made a \"daejang\", the equivalent of a four-star general in the United States, on 27 September 2010, a day ahead of a rare Workers' Party of Korea conference in Pyongyang, the first time North Korean media had mentioned him by name and despite him having no previous military experience. Despite the promotion, no further details, including verifiable portraits of Kim, were released. On 28 September 2010, he was named vice chairman of the Central Military Commission and appointed to the Central Committee of the Workers' Party, in an apparent nod to become the successor to Kim Jong-il.\n\nOn 10 October 2010, alongside his father, Kim Jong-un attended the ruling Workers' Party's 65th anniversary celebration. This was seen as confirming his position as the next leader of the Workers' Party. Unprecedented international press access was granted to the event, further indicating the importance of Kim Jong-un's presence. In January 2011, the regime reportedly began purging around 200 protégés of both Jong-un's uncle-in-law Jang Song-thaek and O Kuk-ryol, the vice chairman of the National Defence Commission, by either detention or execution to further prevent either man from rivaling Jong-un.\n\nOn 17 December 2011, Kim Jong-il died. Despite the elder Kim's plans, it was not immediately clear after his death whether Jong-un would in fact take full power, and what his exact role in a new government would be. Some analysts had predicted that when Kim Jong-il died, Jang Song-thaek would act as regent, as Jong-un was too inexperienced to immediately lead the country.\n\nFollowing his father's death, Kim Jong-un was hailed as the \"great successor to the revolutionary cause of Juche\", \"outstanding leader of the party, army and people\" and \"respected comrade who is identical to Supreme Commander Kim Jong-il\", and was made chairman of the Kim Jong-il funeral committee. The Korean Central News Agency described Kim Jong-un as \"a great person born of heaven\", a propaganda term only his father and grandfather had enjoyed. And the ruling Workers' Party said in an editorial, \"We vow with bleeding tears to call Kim Jong-un our supreme commander, our leader.\"\n\nHe was publicly declared Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army on 24 December 2011 and formally appointed to the position on 30 December 2011 when the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party \"courteously proclaimed that the dear respected Kim Jong Un, vice-chairman of the Central Military Commission of the WPK, assumed the supreme commandership of the Korean People's Army\".\nOn 26 December 2011, the leading North Korean newspaper \"Rodong Sinmun\" reported that Kim Jong-un had been acting as chairman of the Central Military Commission, and supreme leader of the country, following his father's demise.\n\nOn 9 January 2012, a large rally was held by the Korean People's Army in front of the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun to honor Kim Jong-un and to demonstrate loyalty.\n\nIn 2013, \"Forbes\" named Kim Jong-un the World's 46th Most Powerful Person.\n\nOn 27 March 2012, Kim was elected to the Fourth Conference of the Workers' Party of Korea. On 11 April, that conference wrote the post of general secretary out of the party charter and instead designated Kim Jong-il as the party's \"Eternal General Secretary\". The conference then elected Kim Jong-un as leader of the party under the newly created title of First Secretary. Kim Jong-un also took his father's post as Chairman of the Central Military Commission, as well as his father's old seat on the Politburo Presidium. In a speech made prior to the Conference, Kim Jong-un declared that \"Imbuing the whole society with Kimilsungism-Kimjongilism is the highest programme of our Party\". On 13 April 2012, the 5th Session of the 12th Supreme People's Assembly appointed Kim Jong-un Chairman of the National Defence Commission.\n\nOn 15 April 2012, during a military parade to commemorate Kim Il-sung's centenary, Kim Jong-un made his first public speech, \"Let Us March Forward Dynamically Towards Final Victory, Holding Higher the Banner of Songun\". That speech became the basis of a hymn dedicated to him, \"Onwards Toward the Final Victory\".\n\nIn July 2012, Kim Jong-un was promoted to wonsu (translated as marshal), the highest active rank in the military. The decision was jointly issued on by the Central Committee and the Central Military Commission of the Workers' Party of Korea, the National Defence Commission, and the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, the Korean Central News Agency subsequently announced. The only higher rank is Dae Wonsu (roughly translated as Grand Marshal or Generalissimo) which was held by Kim's grandfather, Kim Il-sung, and which was awarded posthumously to his father, Kim Jong-il, in February 2012. The promotion confirmed Kim's role as top leader of the North Korean military and came days after the replacement of Chief of General Staff Ri Yong-ho by Hyon Yong-chol.\nIn November 2012, satellite photos revealed a half-kilometer-long () propaganda message carved into a hillside in Ryanggang Province, reading, \"Long Live General Kim Jong-un, the Shining Sun!\"\n\nKim Jong-il's personal chef Kenji Fujimoto stated, \"Stores in Pyongyang were brimming with products and people in the streets looked cheerful. North Korea has changed a lot since Kim Jong-un assumed power. All of this is because of leader Kim Jong-un.\"\nOfficially, Kim Jong-un is part of a triumvirate heading the executive branch of the North Korean government along with Premier Pak Pong-ju and parliament chairman Kim Yong-nam (no relation). Each nominally holds powers equivalent to a third of a president's powers in most presidential systems. Kim Jong-un commands the armed forces, Pak Pong-ju heads the government, and Kim Yong-nam handles foreign relations. Nevertheless, it is generally understood that Kim Jong-un, like his father and grandfather before him, exercises absolute control over the government and the country. Indeed, a constitutional amendment enacted by his father explicitly named the NDC (first) chairman as \"the supreme leader of the Democratic People's Republic of North Korea\".\n\nOn 30 November 2012, Kim met with Li Jianguo, who \"briefed Kim on the 18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China\", according to the state's official news agency, the Korean Central News Agency. A letter from Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, was hand-delivered during the discussion.\n\nIn 2013, Kim re-established his grandfather's style when he made his first New Year's address, a break from the approach of his father. Kim Jong-il never made televised addresses during his 17 years in power. In lieu of delivering a speech, Kim Jong-il contributed to and approved a New Year's Day editorial, jointly published by \"Rodong Sinmun\" (the daily newspaper of the Korean Workers' Party), \"Joson Inmingun\" (the newspaper of the Korean People's Army), and \"Chongnyon Jonwi\" (the newspaper of the Kimilsungist-Kimjongilist Youth League). At the extraordinary meeting with his top defense and security officials on 26 January 2013, Kim issued orders on preparations for a new nuclear test and introduced martial law in North Korea effective from 29 January.\n\nOn 9 March 2014, Kim Jong-un was elected to a seat in the Supreme People's Assembly, the country's unicameral legislature. He ran unopposed, but voters had the choice of voting yes or no. There was a record turnout of voters and, according to government officials, all voted \"yes\" in his home district of Mount Paekdu. The Supreme People's Assembly subsequently elected him first chairman of the National Defense Commission.\nIn May 2014, following the collapse of an apartment building in Pyongyang, Kim Jong-un was said to be very upset at the loss of life that resulted. A statement issued by the country's official news agency the Korean Central News Agency used the rare expression \"profound consolation and apology\". An unnamed government official was quoted by the BBC as saying Kim Jong-un had \"sat up all night, feeling painful\". While the height of the building and the number of casualties was not released, media reports described it is a 23-story building and indicated that more than a hundred people may have died in the collapse.\n\nA set of comprehensive economic measures, the \"Socialist Corporate Responsible Management System\", were introduced in 2013. The measures increase the autonomy of enterprises by granting them \"certain rights to engage in business activities autonomously and elevate the will to labor through appropriately implementing the socialist distribution system\". Another priority of economic policies that year was agriculture, where the \"pojon\" (vegetable garden) responsibility system was implemented. The system reportedly achieved a major increase in output in some collective farms.\nNorth Korean media were describing the economy as a \"flexible collectivist system\" where enterprises were applying \"active and evolutionary actions\" to achieve economic development. These reports reflect Kim's general economic policy of reforming management, increasing the autonomy and incentives for economic actors. This set of reforms known as the \"May 30th measures\" reaffirms both socialist ownership and \"objective economic laws in guidance and management\" to improve living standards. Other objectives of the measures are to increase the availability of domestically manufactured goods on markets, introduction of defence innovations into the civilian sector and boost international trade.\n\nAs with all reporting on North Korea, reports of purges and executions are difficult to verify. In May 2016, analysts were surprised to find that General Ri Yong-gil, reported by South Korea to have been executed earlier in the year, was, in fact, alive and well.\n\nIn December 2013, Kim Jong-un's uncle Jang Song-thaek was arrested and executed for treachery. Jang is believed to have been executed by firing squad. Yonhap has stated that, according to multiple unnamed sources, Kim Jong-un has also put to death members of Jang's family, to completely destroy all traces of Jang's existence through \"extensive executions\" of his family, including the children and grandchildren of all close relatives. Those reportedly killed in Kim's purge include Jang's sister Jang Kye-sun, her husband and ambassador to Cuba, Jon Yong-jin, and Jang's nephew and ambassador to Malaysia, Jang Yong-chol. The nephew's two sons were also said to have been killed. At the time of Jang's removal, it was announced that \"the discovery and purge of the Jang group ... made our party and revolutionary ranks purer ...\" and after his execution on 12 December 2013 state media warned that the army \"will never pardon all those who disobey the order of the Supreme Commander\".\n\nO Sang-hon () was a deputy security minister in the Ministry of People's Security in the government of North Korea who was reportedly killed in a political purge in 2014. According to the South Korean newspaper \"The Chosun Ilbo\", O was executed by flamethrower for his role in supporting Kim Jong-un's uncle Jang Song-taek.\n\nHuman rights violations under the leadership of Kim Jong-il were condemned by the UN General Assembly. Press reports indicate that they are continuing under Kim Jong-un.\n\nThe 2013 report on the situation of human rights in North Korea by United Nations Special Rapporteur Marzuki Darusman proposed a United Nations commission of inquiry to document the accountability of Kim Jong-un and other individuals in the North Korean government for alleged crimes against humanity. The report of the commission of inquiry was published in February 2014 and recommends making him accountable for crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court.\n\nIn July 2016, the United States Department of the Treasury imposed personal sanctions on Kim. Although his involvement in human rights abuses was cited as the reason, officials said the sanctions target the country's nuclear and missile programs.\n\nIn June 2017, President Trump condemned Kim Jong-un's \"brutal\" regime and described Kim as a \"madman\" after the death of American student Otto Warmbier who had been imprisoned during a visit to North Korea.\n\nIn May 2017, the North Korean government stated that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) of the United States and the South Korean National Intelligence Service (NIS) hired a North Korean lumberjack who worked in Russia to assassinate Kim Jong-un with a \"biochemical weapon\" that was both radioactive and nano-poisonous, and whose effect would have been delayed by a few months. North Korea said that it would seek extradition of anyone involved in the assassination attempt.\n\nUnder Kim Jong-un, North Korea has continued to develop nuclear weapons. At a plenary meeting of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party held on 31 March 2013, Kim Jong-un announced that North Korea will adopt \"a new strategic line on carrying out economic construction and building nuclear armed forces simultaneously\".\n\nAccording to several analysts, North Korea sees the nuclear arsenal as vital to deter an attack, and it is unlikely that North Korea would launch a nuclear war. According to a RAND Corporation senior researcher, Kim Jong-un believes that nuclear weapons are his guarantee of regime survival. During the 7th Congress of the Workers' Party of Korea in 2016, Kim Jong-un stated that North Korea would \"not use nuclear weapons first unless aggressive hostile forces use nuclear weapons to invade on our sovereignty\". However, on other occasions, North Korea has threatened \"pre-emptive\" nuclear attacks against a US-led attack. In December 2015, Kim stated that his family \"turned the DPRK into a powerful nuclear weapons state ready to detonate a self-reliant A-bomb and H-bomb to reliably defend its sovereignty and the dignity of the nation\".\n\nIn January 2018, estimates of North Korea's nuclear arsenal ranged between 15 and 60 bombs, probably including hydrogen bombs. In the opinion of analysts, the Hwasong-15 missile is capable of striking anywhere in the United States.\n\nThe United Nations enacted a series of sanctions against North Korea for its nuclear program and missile tests.\n\nIn his 2018 New Year Speech, Kim announced that he was open to dialogue with South Korea with a view to take part in the upcoming Winter Olympics in the South. The Seoul–Pyongyang hotline was reopened after almost two years. North and South Korea marched together in the Olympics opening ceremony, and fielded a united women's ice hockey team that finished eighth. In addition to the athletes, Kim sent an unprecedented high-level delegation including his sister, Kim Yo-jong, and President of the Presidium, Kim Yong-nam, and performers such as the Samjiyon Orchestra. On 5 March, he arranged a meeting with South Korea's Chief of the National Security Office, Chung Eui-yong.\n\nChinese media announced that Kim had visited Beijing on 26 March. This was confirmed by the North Korean state press outlet Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) on 28 March.\n\nAt the April 2018 inter-Korean summit, Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in signed the Panmunjom Declaration, pledging to convert the Korean Armistice Agreement into a full peace treaty, formally ending the Korean War, by the end of the year.\n\nFrom 7–8 May, Kim made a second visit to China, meeting with Xi Jinping in Dalian.\n\nOn 26 May, Kim had a second and unannounced meeting the North Korean side of Panmunjom, meeting with Moon to discuss the summit with Donald Trump.\n\nOn 10 June, Kim arrived in Singapore and met with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.\nOn June 12, Kim met Donald Trump for a summit and signed a declaration, affirming a commitment to peace and nuclear disarmament.\n\nIn September, Kim held another summit with Moon in Pyongyang. Kim agreed to dismantle North Korea's nuclear weapons facilities if the United States took reciprocal action. The two governments also announced that they would establish buffer zones on their borders to prevent clashes.\n\nKenji Fujimoto, a Japanese chef who claims to have worked as Kim Jong-il's personal cook, described Kim Jong-un as \"a chip off the old block, a spitting image of his father in terms of face, body shape, and personality\".\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported in 2009 that Kim Jong-un's school friends recalled he \"spent hours doing meticulous pencil drawings of Chicago Bulls superstar Michael Jordan\". He was obsessed with basketball and computer games. On 26 February 2013, Kim Jong‑un met Dennis Rodman, leading many reporters to speculate that Rodman was the first American that Kim had met. Rodman described his trip to Kim Jong-un's private island, \"It's like Hawaii or Ibiza, but he's the only one that lives there.\"\n\nIn July 2012, Kim Jong-un showed a change in cultural policy from his father by attending a Moranbong Band concert. The concert contained several elements of pop culture from the West, particularly the United States. Kim used this event to debut his wife to the public, an unprecedented move in North Korea.\n\nDuring Dennis Rodman's trip, \"Vice\" magazine correspondent Ryan Duffy observed that \"the leader was 'socially awkward' and didn't make eye contact when shaking hands\".\n\nAccording to Cheong Seong-chang of the Sejong Institute, Kim Jong-un has greater visible interest in the welfare of his people and engages in greater interaction with them than his father did.\n\nSouth Koreans who saw Kim at the summit in April 2018 described him as straightforward, humorous, and attentive. After meeting him, Donald Trump said, \"I learned he was a talented man. I also learned he loves his country very much.\" He added that Kim had a \"great personality\" and was \"very smart\".\n\nIn 2009, reports suggested that Kim Jong-un was a diabetic and suffered from hypertension. He is also known to smoke cigarettes.\n\nKim Jong-un did not appear in public for six weeks in September and October 2014. State media reported that he was suffering from an \"uncomfortable physical condition\". Previously he had been seen limping. When he reappeared, he was using a walking stick.\n\nIn September 2015, the South Korean government commented that Kim appeared to have gained 30 kg in body fat over the previous five years, reaching a total estimated body weight of .\n\nOn 25 July 2012, North Korean state media reported for the first time that Kim Jong-un is married to Ri Sol-ju (리설주). Ri, who was believed to be in her early 20s, had been accompanying Kim Jong-un to public appearances for several weeks prior to the announcement. According to a South Korean analyst, Kim Jong-il had hastily arranged the marriage after suffering a stroke in 2008, the two married in 2009, and they had a child in 2010. Dennis Rodman, after visiting in 2013, reported that they had a daughter named Ju-ae. However, South Korean sources speculated that they could have many children.\n\nKim is sometimes accompanied by his younger sister Kim Yo-jong, who is said to be instrumental in creating his public image and organising public events for him. According to Kim Yong-hyun, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul, and others, the promotion of Kim Yo-jong and others is a sign that \"the Kim Jong-un regime has ended its co-existence with the remnants of the previous Kim Jong-il regime by carrying out a generational replacement in the party's key elite posts\".\n\nOn 13 February 2017, Kim Jong-nam, the exiled half-brother of Kim Jong-un, was assassinated with the nerve agent VX while walking through Terminal 2 at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "44263485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44263485", "title": "Kluet people", "text": "Kluet people\n\nKluet or Kluwat people dwell in a number of districts in South Aceh Regency, Aceh, Indonesia namely North Kluet, South Kluet, Central Kluet and East Kluet. The Kluet people are regarded as part of the Batak people sub-ethnicity. The Kluet regions are separated by Lawé Kluet River, where it disgorges from the Mount Leuser and disembogues into the Indian Ocean. Residential region of the Kluet people is 30 km from Tapaktuan city or 500 km from Banda Aceh. Majority of the population and as well as the Kluet people practices Islam.\n\nThe language spoken by the Kluet people is Alas-Kluet language, which is categorized as part of the Batak languages. The Kluet language itself is divided into three dialects, which are the Paya Dapur, Manggamat and Lawe Sawah dialect.\n\nDuring the colonial period, the Acehnese people are known to have had political influence on the coastal area that became known as Kluet kingdom. Therefore, the Acehnese people also had cultural influence in the culture of the Kluet people to a certain degree, where the \"adat\" (customary) authority structure of the Kluet people are historically similar. Farming is the main source of income for the Kluet people.\n\nJust like any other Batak people, the Kluet people have marga (surnames or family names) of their own that are still being used today:-\n\nThese margas are also found among other Batak people such as Alas people, Karo people and Pakpak people; except for Caniago which are believed to be the descendants of Minangkabau people that have assimilated with the Kluet people centuries ago.\n"}
{"id": "10601916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10601916", "title": "Languages of the Faroe Islands", "text": "Languages of the Faroe Islands\n\nThe official language of the Faroe Islands is Faroese. The Faroese language is a Germanic language which is descended from Old Norse.\n\nFaroese is similar in grammar to Icelandic and Old Norse, but closer in pronunciation to Norwegian. In the twentieth century Faroese became the official language and, because the Faroe Islands are a self-governing country within the Kingdom of Denmark, Danish is taught in Faroese schools.\n\nThe first recorded settlers of the Faroe Islands were Irish monks (papar), so it is possible to assume, that one of the first languages in the islands was some form of Old Irish. Neighbouring Shetland was inhabited from the Stone Age, and was Pictish speaking when the Norse arrived.\n\nNorse settlers arrived in the middle of the 9th century, bringing their West Norse language (from which the Faroese language evolved).\n\nOther groups are known to have lived in the Faroes as well. These include Norwegian peoples, and this is evident in certain Faroese places names, such as Signabøur (Bø of 'Sygnir') and Øravík (bay of 'Hörðir'). People from Suðuroy also refer to 'Frísarnir í Akrabergi' (The Frisians of Akraberg).\n\nEnglish and German are sometimes used for the purposes of tourism. Norwegian is occasionally heard too, due to the islands' geographical proximity to Norway.\n"}
{"id": "28952722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28952722", "title": "List of Muslim Other Backward Classes communities in India", "text": "List of Muslim Other Backward Classes communities in India\n\nThis is a full list of Muslim communities in India (OBCs) that are recognised in India's Constitution as other backward classes, a term used to classify socially and educationally disadvantaged castes.\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded Other Backward Classes status by the Government of India in the state of Andhra Pradesh & Telangana.\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded Other Backward Classes status by the Government of Andhra Pradesh & Telangana and Karnataka state government.\n\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded Other Backward Classes status by the Government of India in the state of Bihar.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded OBC status by the state government of Bihar:\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded Other Backward Classes status by the Government of India in Delhi.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded OBC status by the state government of Delhi.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded Other Backward Classes status in Gujarat.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded Other Backward Classes status by the Government of India in Haryana.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nThis is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded Other Backward Classes status in the state of Himachal Pradesh, India.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nThis is a list of Muslim communities that have been granted Other Backward Classes status by the Government of India in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, India.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded OBC status by the Government of India in the state of Madhya Pradesh.\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities granted OBC status in the Government of India in the state of Punjab.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nThis is a list of Muslim communities who have been granted Other Backward Class status by the Government of India in the state of Rajasthan.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nExplanation: In the above list for the State of Rajasthan, all castes, which are known by the name of their respective traditional hereditary occupations and whose members follow different religions, include all members of those castes, irrespective of whether they follow the Hindu religion or Islam or any other religion (Vide Resolution No. 12011/4/2002-BCC dt. 19 June 2003).\n\nThis is a list of Muslim communities accorded OBC status by the state government of Rajasthan, India.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded Other Backward Classes status in Uttar Pradesh.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nExplanation: In the above list for Uttar Pradesh for all castes linked with traditional hereditary occupations, except those entered with specific mention of name of religion, are included, irrespective of whether their members follow Hinduism, Islam or any other religion.\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded by OBC status by the Government of India in the state of West Bengal.\n\nBelow is a list of Muslim communities that have been accorded OBC status by the state government of West Bengal.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15237918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15237918", "title": "List of Telugu castes", "text": "List of Telugu castes\n\nTelugu society is nowadays officially classified into a number of groups, some of which align with the concept of caste.\n\nForward castes do not qualify for government reservations. Those present in Andhra Pradesh are:\nSome communities within these groups are instead classified under other categories, as noted below.\n\nSome communities are classified as Other Backward Classes due to social, financial, educational, and/or political discrimination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1377948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377948", "title": "List of disasters in Great Britain and Ireland by death toll", "text": "List of disasters in Great Britain and Ireland by death toll\n\nThe following list of disasters in Great Britain and Ireland is a list of major disasters (excluding acts of war but including acts of terrorism) which relate to the United Kingdom since 1801, or the states that preceded it (England and Wales and Scotland before 1707, Ireland and Great Britain from 1707 to 1800), or involved their citizens, in a definable incident or accident such as a shipwreck, where the loss of life was forty or more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20523", "title": "Maasai people", "text": "Maasai people\n\nMaasai are a Nilotic ethnic group inhabiting central and southern Kenya and northern Tanzania. They are among the best known local populations due to their residence near the many game parks of the African Great Lakes, and their distinctive customs and dress. The Maasai speak the Maa language (ɔl Maa), a member of the Nilo-Saharan family that is related to Dinka and Nuer languages. Some have become educated in the official languages of Kenya and Tanzania, Swahili and English. The Maasai population has been reported as numbering 841,622 in Kenya in the 2009 census, compared to 377,089 in the 1989 census.\n\nThe Tanzanian and Kenyan governments have instituted programs to encourage the Maasai to abandon their traditional semi-nomadic lifestyle, but the people have continued their age-old customs. An Oxfam study has suggested that the Maasai could pass on traditional survival skills such as the ability to produce food in deserts and scrublands that could help populations adapt to climate change. Many Maasai tribes throughout Tanzania and Kenya welcome visits to their villages to experience their culture, traditions, and lifestyle, in return for a fee.\nThey are considered one of the tallest people in the world, with an average height of 6 ft 3 inches according to some reports.\n\nThe Maasai speak a Nilo-Saharan language. They inhabit the African Great Lakes region and arrived via the South Sudan. Most Nilotic speakers in the area, including the Maasai, the Turkana and the Kalenjin, are pastoralists, and are famous for their fearsome reputations as warriors and cattle-rustlers. The Maasai and other groups in East Africa have adopted customs and practices from neighboring Cushitic-speaking groups, including the age set system of social organization, circumcision, and vocabulary terms.\n\nAccording to their oral history, the Maasai originated from the lower Nile valley north of Lake Turkana (Northwest Kenya) and began migrating south around the 15th century, arriving in a long trunk of land stretching from what is now northern Kenya to what is now central Tanzania between the 17th and late 18th century. Many ethnic groups that had already formed settlements in the region were forcibly displaced by the incoming Maasai, while other, mainly Southern Cushitic groups, were assimilated into Maasai society. The Nilotic ancestors of the Kalenjin likewise absorbed some early Cushitic populations.\n\nThe Maasai territory reached its largest size in the mid-19th century, and covered almost all of the Great Rift Valley and adjacent lands from Mount Marsabit in the north to Dodoma in the south. At this time the Maasai, as well as the larger Nilotic group they were part of, raised cattle as far east as the Tanga coast in Tanganyika (now mainland Tanzania). Raiders used spears and shields, but were most feared for throwing clubs (orinka) which could be accurately thrown from up to 70 paces (appx. 100 metres). In 1852, there was a report of a concentration of 800 Maasai warriors on the move in what is now Kenya. In 1857, after having depopulated the \"Wakuafi wilderness\" in what is now southeastern Kenya, Maasai warriors threatened Mombasa on the Kenyan coast.\nBecause of this migration, the Maasai are the southernmost Nilotic speakers. The period of expansion was followed by the Maasai \"Emutai\" of 1883–1902. This period was marked by epidemics of contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, rinderpest (see 1890s African rinderpest epizootic), and smallpox. The estimate first put forward by a German lieutenant in what was then northwest Tanganyika, was that 90 percent of cattle and half of wild animals perished from rinderpest. German doctors in the same area claimed that \"every second\" African had a pock-marked face as the result of smallpox. This period coincided with drought. Rains failed completely in 1897 and 1898.\n\nThe Austrian explorer Oscar Baumann travelled in Maasai lands between 1891 and 1893, and described the old Maasai settlement in the Ngorongoro Crater in the 1894 book \"Durch Massailand zur Nilquelle\" (\"Through the lands of the Maasai to the source of the Nile\"): \"There were women wasted to skeletons from whose eyes the madness of starvation glared ... warriors scarcely able to crawl on all fours, and apathetic, languishing elders. Swarms of vultures followed them from high, awaiting their certain victims.\" By one estimate two-thirds of the Maasai died during this period.\n\nStarting with a 1904 treaty, and followed by another in 1911, Maasai lands in Kenya were reduced by 60 percent when the British evicted them to make room for settler ranches, subsequently confining them to present-day Samburu,Laikipia,Kajiado and Narok districts. Maasai in Tanganyika (now mainland Tanzania) were displaced from the fertile lands between Mount Meru and Mount Kilimanjaro, and most of the fertile highlands near Ngorongoro in the 1940s. More land was taken to create wildlife reserves and national parks: Amboseli National Park, Nairobi National Park, Maasai Mara, Samburu National Reserve, Lake Nakuru National Park and Tsavo in Kenya; and Lake Manyara, Ngorongoro Conservation Area, Tarangire and Serengeti National Park in what is now Tanzania.\n\nMaasai are pastoralist and have resisted the urging of the Tanzanian and Kenyan governments to adopt a more sedentary lifestyle. They have demanded grazing rights to many of the national parks in both countries.\n\nThe Maasai people stood against slavery and lived alongside most wild animals with an aversion to eating game and birds. Maasai land now has East Africa's finest game areas. Maasai society never condoned traffic of human beings, and outsiders looking for people to enslave avoided the Maasai.\n\nEssentially there are twenty two geographic sectors or sub tribes of the Maasai community, each one having its own customs, appearance, leadership and dialects. These subdivisions are known as 'nations' or' iloshon'in the Maa language: the Keekonyokie, Damat, Purko, Wuasinkishu, Siria, Laitayiok, Loitai, Kisonko, Matapato, Dalalekutuk, Loodokolani ,Kaputiei,Moitanik,Ilkirasha,Samburu,Lchamus,Laikipia,Loitokitoki,Larusa,Salei,Sirinket and Parakuyo.\n\nRecent advances in genetic analyses have helped shed some light on the ethnogenesis of the Maasai people. Genetic genealogy, a tool that uses the genes of modern populations to trace their ethnic and geographic origins, has also helped clarify the possible background of the modern Maasai.\n\nThe Maasai's autosomal DNA has been examined in a comprehensive study by Tishkoff et al. (2009) on the genetic affiliations of various populations in Africa. According to the study's authors, the Maasai \"have maintained their culture in the face of extensive genetic introgression\". Tishkoff et al. also indicate that: \"Many Nilo-Saharan-speaking populations in East Africa, such as the Maasai, show multiple cluster assignments from the Nilo-Saharan [...] and Cushitic [...] AACs, in accord with linguistic evidence of repeated Nilotic assimilation of Cushites over the past 3000 years and with the high frequency of a shared East African–specific mutation associated with lactose tolerance.\"\n\nA Y chromosome study by Wood et al. (2005) tested various Sub-Saharan populations, including 26 Maasai males from Kenya, for paternal lineages. The authors observed haplogroup E1b1b in 50% of the studied Maasai, which is indicative of substantial gene flow from more northerly Cushitic males, who possess the haplogroup at high frequencies. The second most frequent paternal lineage among the Maasai was Haplogroup A3b2, which is commonly found in Nilotic populations, such as the Alur; it was observed in 27% of Maasai males. The third most frequently observed paternal DNA marker in the Maasai was haplogroup E-V38 (E-P1), which is very common in the Sub-Saharan region; it was found in 12% of the Maasai samples. Haplogroup B-M60 was also observed in 8% of the studied Maasai, which is also found in 30% (16/53) of Southern Sudanese Nilotes.\n\nAccording to an mtDNA study by Castri et al. (2008), which tested Maasai individuals in Kenya, the maternal lineages found among the Maasai are quite diverse, but similar in overall frequency to that observed in other Nilo-Hamitic populations from the region, such as the Samburu. Most of the tested Maasai belonged to various macro-haplogroup L sub-clades, including L0, L2, L3, L4 and L5. Some maternal gene flow from North and Northeast Africa was also reported, particularly via the presence of mtDNA haplogroup M lineages in about 12.5% of the Maasai samples.\n\nMaasai society is strongly patriarchal in nature, with elder men, sometimes joined by retired elders, deciding most major matters for each Maasai group. A full body of oral law covers many aspects of behavior. Formal execution is unknown, and normally payment in cattle will settle matters. An out-of-court process is also practiced called 'amitu', 'to make peace', or 'arop', which involves a substantial apology.\nThe monotheistic Maasai worship a single deity called \"Enkai\" or \"Engai\". Engai has a dual nature: Engai Narok (Black God) is benevolent, and Engai Na-nyokie (Red God) is vengeful. There are also two pillars or totems of Maasai society: Oodo Mongi, the Red Cow and Orok Kiteng, the Black Cow with a subdivision of five clans or family trees. The maasai also has a totemic animal which is the lion however, the animal can be killed. The way the Maasai kill the lion differs from trophy hunting as it is used in the rite of passage ceremony. The \"Mountain of God\", Ol Doinyo Lengai, is located in northernmost Tanzania and can be seen from Lake Natron in southernmost Kenya. The central human figure in the Maasai religious system is the whose roles include shamanistic healing, divination and prophecy, and ensuring success in war or adequate rainfall. Today, they have a political role as well due to the elevation of leaders. Whatever power an individual laibon had was a function of personality rather than position. Many Maasai have also adopted Christianity and Islam. The Maasai are known for their intricate jewelry and for decades, have sold these items to tourists as a business.\n\nA once high infant mortality rate among the Maasai has led to babies not truly being recognized until they reach an age of 3 months \"ilapaitin\". Educating Maasai women to use clinics and hospitals during pregnancy has enabled more infants to survive. The exception is found in extremely remote areas. For Maasai living a traditional life, the end of life is virtually without ceremony, and the dead are left out for scavengers. A corpse rejected by scavengers is seen as having something wrong with it, and liable to cause social disgrace; therefore, it is not uncommon for bodies to be covered in fat and blood from a slaughtered ox. Burial has in the past been reserved for great chiefs, since it is believed to be harmful to the soil.\n\nTraditional Maasai lifestyle centres around their cattle which constitute their primary source of food. The measure of a man's wealth is in terms of cattle and children. A herd of 50 cattle is respectable, and the more children the better. A man who has plenty of one but not the other is considered to be poor. A Maasai religious belief relates that God gave them all the cattle on earth, leading to the belief that rustling cattle from other tribes is a matter of taking back what is rightfully theirs, a practice that has become much less common.\n\nAll of the Maasai’s needs for food are met by their cattle. They eat the meat, drink the milk daily, and drink the blood on occasion. Bulls, oxen and lambs are slaughtered for meat on special occasions and for ceremonies. Though the Maasai’s entire way of life has historically depended on their cattle, more recently with their cattle dwindling, the Maasai have grown dependent on food such as sorghum, rice, potatoes and cabbage (known to the Maasai as goat leaves).\n\nMaintaining a traditional pastoral lifestyle has become increasingly difficult due to outside influences of the modern world. Garrett Hardin's article, outlining the \"tragedy of the commons\", as well as Melville Herskovits' \"cattle complex\" helped to influence ecologists and policy makers about the harm Maasai pastoralists were causing to savannah rangelands. This concept was later proven false by anthropologists but is still deeply ingrained in the minds of ecologists and Tanzanian officials. This influenced British colonial policy makers in 1951 to remove all Maasai from the Serengeti National Park and relegate them to areas in and around the Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA). The plan for the NCA was to put Maasai interests above all else, but this promise was never met. The spread of HIV was rampant.\n\nDue to an increase in Maasai population, loss of cattle populations to disease, and lack of available rangelands because of new park boundaries and the incursion of settlements and farms by other tribes (this is also the chief reason for the decline in wildlife-habitat loss, with the second being poaching), the Maasai were forced to develop new ways of sustaining themselves. Many Maasai began to cultivate maize and other crops to get by, a practice that was culturally viewed negatively. Cultivation was first introduced to the Maasai by displaced WaArusha and WaMeru women who were married to Maasai men; subsequent generations practiced a mixed livelihood. To further complicate their situation, in 1975 the Ngorongoro Conservation Area banned cultivation practices. In order to survive they are forced to participate in Tanzania’s monetary economy. They have to sell their animals and traditional medicines in order to buy food. The ban on cultivation was lifted in 1992 and cultivation has again become an important part of Maasai livelihood. Park boundaries and land privatisation has continued to limit grazing area for the Maasai and have forced them to change considerably.\n\nOver the years, many projects have begun to help Maasai tribal leaders find ways to preserve their traditions while also balancing the education needs of their children for the modern world.\n\nThe emerging forms of employment among the Maasai people include farming, business (selling of traditional medicine, running of restaurants/shops, buying and selling of minerals, selling milk and milk products by women, embroideries), and wage employment (as security guards/ watchmen, waiters, tourist guides), and others who are engaged in the public and private sectors.\n\nMany Maasai have moved away from the nomadic life to positions in commerce and government. Yet despite the sophisticated urban lifestyle they may lead, many will happily head homewards dressed in designer clothes, only to emerge from the traditional family homestead wearing a shuka (colourful piece of cloth), cow hide sandals and carrying a wooden club (o-rinka) - at ease with themselves.\n\nThe central unit of Maasai society is the age-set. Young boys are sent out with the calves and lambs as soon as they can toddle, but childhood for boys is mostly playtime, with the exception of ritual beatings to test courage and endurance. Girls are responsible for chores such as cooking and milking, skills which they learn from their mothers at an early age. Every 15 years or so, a new and individually named generation of Morans or Il-murran (warriors) will be initiated. This involves most boys between 12 and 25, who have reached puberty and are not part of the previous age-set. One rite of passage from boyhood to the status of junior warrior is a circumcision ceremony performed without anaesthetic. In modern times, boys living close to towns with doctors may endure the ceremony in safer conditions, but still without anaesthetic because they must endure the pain that will lead them to manhood. This ritual is typically performed by the elders, who use a sharpened knife and makeshift cattle hide bandages for the procedure. The Maa word for circumcision is emorata. The boy must endure the operation in silence. Expressions of pain bring dishonor, albeit temporarily. Any exclamations can cause a mistake in the delicate and tedious process, which can result in lifelong scarring, dysfunction, and pain. The healing process will take 3–4 months, during which urination is painful and nearly impossible at times, and boys must remain in black clothes for a period of 4–8 months.\n\nDuring this period, the newly circumcised young men will live in a \"manyatta\", a \"village\" built by their mothers. The manyatta has no encircling barricade for protection, emphasizing the warrior role of protecting the community. No inner kraal is built, since warriors neither own cattle nor undertake stock duties. Further rites of passage are required before achieving the status of senior warrior, culminating in the eunoto ceremony, the \"coming of age\".\n\nWhen a new generation of warriors is initiated, the existing Il-murran will graduate to become junior elders, who are responsible for political decisions until they in turn become senior elders. This graduation from warrior to junior elder takes place at a large gathering known as Eunoto. The long hair of the former warriors is shaved off; elders must wear their hair short. Warriors are not allowed to have sexual relations with circumcised women, though they may have girlfriends who are uncircumcised girls. At Eunoto, the warriors who managed to abide by this rule are specially recognized.\n\nThe warriors spend most of their time now on walkabouts throughout Maasai lands, beyond the confines of their sectional boundaries. They are also much more involved in cattle trading than they used to be, developing and improving basic stock through trades and bartering rather than stealing as in the past.\n\nOne myth about the Maasai is that each young man is supposed to kill a lion before he is circumcised. Lion hunting was an activity of the past, but it has been banned in Southeast Africa – yet lions are still hunted when they maul Maasai livestock, and young warriors who engage in traditional lion killing do not face significant consequences. Increasing concern regarding lion populations has given rise to at least one program which promotes accepting compensation when a lion kills livestock, rather than hunting and killing the predator. Nevertheless, killing a lion gives one great value and celebrity status in the community.\n\nYoung women also undergo excision (\"female circumcision\", \"female genital mutilation,\" \"emorata\") as part of an elaborate rite of passage ritual called \"Emuratare,\" the ceremony that initiates young Maasai girls into adulthood through ritual circumcision and then into early arranged marriages. The Maasai believe that female circumcision is necessary and Maasai men may reject any woman who has not undergone it as either not marriageable or worthy of a much-reduced bride price. In Eastern Africa, uncircumcised women, even those highly educated members of parliament like Linah Kilimo, can be accused of not being mature enough to be taken seriously. To others the practice of female circumcision is known as female genital mutilation, and draws a great deal of criticism from both abroad and many women who have undergone it, such as Maasai activist Agnes Pareyio. It has recently been replaced in some instances by a \"cutting with words\" ceremony involving singing and dancing in place of the mutilation. However, the practice remains deeply ingrained and valued by the culture. The Maa word for circumcision, \"emorata,\" is used for both female and male genital mutilation. Female genital cutting is illegal in both Kenya and Tanzania. These circumcisions are usually performed by an invited 'practitioner' who is often not Maasai, usually from a Dorobo group. The knives and blades which make the cut are fashioned by blacksmiths, il-kunono, who make their weapons for the Maasai who do not make their own:(knives, short swords (ol alem or simi or seme), spears, etc.). Similarly to the young men, women who will be circumcised wear dark clothing, paint their faces with markings, and then cover their faces on completion of the ceremony.\n\nMarried women who become pregnant are excused from all heavy work such as milking and gathering firewood. Sexual relations are also banned and there are specific rules applied to pregnant women.\nThe Maasai are traditionally polygynous; this is thought to be a long-standing and practical adaptation to high infant and warrior mortality rates. Polyandry is also practiced. However, today this practice is usually abandoned. A woman marries not just her husband but the entire age group. Men are expected to give up their bed to a visiting age-mate guest; however, today this practice is usually abandoned. The woman decides strictly on her own if she will join the visiting male. Any child which may result is the husband's child and his descendant in the patrilineal order of Maasai society. \"Kitala\", a kind of divorce or refuge, is possible in the house of a wife's father, usually for gross mistreatment of the wife. Repayment of the bride price, custody of children, etc., are mutually agreed upon.\n\nMaasai music traditionally consists of rhythms provided by a chorus of vocalists singing harmonies while a song leader, or olaranyani, sings the melody. The olaranyani is usually the singer who can best sing that song, although several individuals may lead a song. The olaranyani begins by singing a line or title (namba) of a song. The group will respond with one unanimous call in acknowledgment, and the olaranyani will sing a verse over the group's rhythmic throat singing. Each song has its specific namba structure based on call-and-response. Common rhythms are variations of 5/4, 6/4 and 3/4 time signatures. Lyrics follow a typical theme and are often repeated verbatim over time. Neck movements accompany singing. When breathing out the head is leaned forward. The head is tilted back for an inward breath. Overall the effect is one of polyphonic syncopation. Unlike most other African tribes, Maasai widely use drone polyphony.\n\nWomen chant lullabies, humming songs, and songs praising their sons. Nambas, the call-and-response pattern, repetition of nonsense phrases, monophonic melodies, repeated phrases following each verse being sung on a descending scale, and singers responding to their own verses are characteristic of singing by females. When many Maasai women gather together, they sing and dance among themselves.\n\nOne exception to the vocal nature of Maasai music is the use of the horn of the Greater Kudu to summon morans for the Eunoto ceremony.\n\nBoth singing and dancing sometimes occur around manyattas, and involve flirting. Young men will form a line and chant rhythmically, \"Oooooh-yah\", with a growl and staccato cough along with the thrust and withdrawal of their lower bodies. Girls stand in front of the men and make the same pelvis lunges while singing a high dying fall of \"Oiiiyo..yo\" in counterpoint to the men. Although bodies come in close proximity, they do not touch.\n\nEunoto, the coming of age ceremony of the warrior, can involve ten or more days of singing, dancing and ritual. The warriors of the Il-Oodokilani perform a kind of march-past as well as the adumu, or aigus, sometimes referred as \"the jumping dance\" by non-Maasai. (Both adumu and aigus are Maa verbs meaning \"to jump\" with adumu meaning \"To jump up and down in a dance\".) Warriors are well known for, and often photographed during, this competitive jumping. A circle is formed by the warriors, and one or two at a time will enter the center to begin jumping while maintaining a narrow posture, never letting their heels touch the ground. Members of the group may raise the pitch of their voices based on the height of the jump.\nThe girlfriends of the moran (intoyie) parade themselves in their most spectacular costumes as part of the eunoto. The mothers of the moran sing and dance in tribute to the courage and daring of their sons.\n\nThe piercing and stretching of earlobes is common among the Maasai as with other tribes. Various materials have been used to both pierce and stretch the lobes, including thorns for piercing, twigs, bundles of twigs, stones, the cross section of elephant tusks and empty film canisters. Fewer and fewer Maasai, particularly boys, follow this custom. Women wear various forms of beaded ornaments in both the ear lobe, and smaller piercings at the top of the ear. Amongst Maasai males, Circumcision is practiced as a ritual of transition from boyhood to manhood. Women are also circumcised (as described above).\n\nThe removal of deciduous canine tooth buds in early childhood is a practice that has been documented in the Maasai of Kenya and Tanzania. There exists a strong belief among the Maasai that diarrheoa, vomiting and other febrile illnesses of early childhood are caused by the gingival swelling over the canine region, which is thought to contain 'worms' or 'nylon' teeth. This belief and practice is not unique to the Maasai. In rural Kenya a group of 95 children aged between six months and two years were examined in 1991/92. 87% were found to have undergone the removal of one or more deciduous canine tooth buds. In an older age group (3–7 years of age), 72% of the 111 children examined exhibited missing mandibular or maxillary deciduous canines.\n\nTraditionally, the Maasai diet consisted of raw meat, raw milk, and raw blood from cattle. Note that the Maasai cattle are of the Zebu variety. In the summer of 1935 Dr. Weston A. Price visited the Maasai and reported that according to Dr. Anderson from the local government hospital in Kenya most tribes were disease-free. Many had not a single tooth attacked by dental caries nor a single malformed dental arch. In particular the Maasai had a very low 0.4% of bone caries. He attributed that to their diet consisting of (in order of volume) raw milk, raw blood, raw meat and some vegetables and fruits, although in many villages they do not eat any fruit or vegetables at all. He noted that when available every growing child and every pregnant or lactating woman would receive a daily ration of raw blood. Dr. Weston A. Price also noted the government efforts back in 1935 to turn the Maasai into farmers. An ILCA study (Nestel 1989) states: \"Today, the stable diet of the Maasai consists of cow's milk and maize-meal. The former is largely drunk fresh or in sweet tea and the latter is used to make a liquid or solid porridge. The solid porridge is known as ugali and is eaten with milk; unlike the liquid porridge, ugali is not prepared with milk. Animal fats or butter are used in cooking, primarily of porridge, maize, and beans. Butter is also an important infant food.\"\n\nStudies by the International Livestock Centre for Africa (Bekure et al. 1991) shows a very great change in the diet of the Maasai towards non-livestock products with maize comprising 12–39 percent and sugar 8–13 percent; about one litre of milk is consumed per person daily.\nMost of the milk is consumed as fermented milk or buttermilk (a by-product of butter making). Milk consumption figures are very high by any standards. The needs for protein and essential amino acids are more than adequately satisfied. However, the supply of iron, niacin, vitamin C, vitamin A, thiamine and energy are never fully met by a purely milk diet. Due to changing circumstances, especially the seasonal nature of the milk supply and frequent droughts, most pastoralists, including the Maasai, now include substantial amounts of grain in their diets.\n\nThe Maasai herd goats and sheep, including the Red Maasai sheep, as well as the more prized cattle. Electrocardiogram tests applied to 400 young adult male Maasai found no evidence whatsoever of heart disease, abnormalities or malfunction. Further study with carbon-14 tracers showed that the average cholesterol level was about 50 percent of that of an average American. These findings were ascribed to the amazing fitness of morans, which was evaluated as \"Olympic standard\".\n\nSoups are probably the most important use of plants for food by Maasai. \"Acacia nilotica\" is the most frequently used soup plant. The root or stem bark is boiled in water and the decoction drunk alone or added to soup. The Maasai are fond of taking this as a drug, and is known to make them energetic, aggressive and fearless. Maasai eat soup laced with bitter bark and roots containing cholesterol-lowering saponins; those urban Maasai who don't have access to the bitter plants tend to develop heart disease. Although consumed as snacks, fruits constitute a major part of the food ingested by children and women looking after cattle as well as morans in the wilderness.\n\nThe mixing of cattle blood, obtained by nicking the jugular vein, and milk is done to prepare a ritual drink for special celebrations and as nourishment for the sick. However, the inclusion of blood in the traditional diet is waning due to the reduction of livestock numbers. More recently, the Maasai have grown dependent on food produced in other areas such as maize meal, rice, potatoes, cabbage (known to the Maasai as goat leaves) etc. The Maasai who live near crop farmers have engaged in cultivation as their primary mode of subsistence. In these areas, plot sizes are generally not large enough to accommodate herds of animals; thus the Maasai are forced to farm.\n\nAs a historically nomadic and then semi-nomadic people, the Maasai have traditionally relied on local, readily available materials and indigenous technology to construct their housing. The traditional Maasai house was in the first instance designed for people on the move and was thus very impermanent in nature. The \"Boma\" (houses) are either somewhat rectangular shaped with extensions or circular, and are constructed by able-bodied women. The structural framework is formed of timber poles fixed directly into the ground and interwoven with a lattice of smaller branches wattle, which is then plastered with a mix of mud, sticks, grass, cow dung, human urine, and ash. The cow dung ensures that the roof is waterproof. The enkaj or engaji is small, measuring about 3x5 m and standing only 1.5 m high. Within this space, the family cooks, eats, sleeps, socializes, and stores food, fuel, and other household possessions. Small livestock are also often accommodated within the enkaji. Villages are enclosed in a circular fence (an enkang) built by the men, usually of thorned acacia, a native tree. At night, all cows, goats, and sheep are placed in an enclosure in the centre, safe from wild animals.\n\nClothing changes by age and location. Young men, for instance, wear black for several months following their circumcision. However, red is a favored colour. Blue, black, striped, and checkered cloth are also worn, as are multicolored African designs. The Maasai began to replace animal-skin, calf hides and sheep skin, with commercial cotton cloth in the 1960s.\n\nShúkà is the Maa word for sheets traditionally worn wrapped around the body. These are typically red, though with some other colors (e.g. blue) and patterns (e.g. plaid). Pink, even with flowers, is not shunned by warriors. One piece garments known as kanga, a Swahili term, are common. Maasai near the coast may wear kikoi, a type of sarong that comes in many different colors and textiles. However, the preferred style is stripes.\n\nMany Maasai in Tanzania wear simple sandals, which were until recently made from cowhides. They are now soled with tire strips or plastic. Both men and women wear wooden bracelets. The Maasai women regularly weave and bead jewellery. This bead work plays an essential part in the ornamentation of their body. Although there are variations in the meaning of the color of the beads, some general meanings for a few colors are: white, peace; blue, water; red, warrior/blood/bravery.\n\nBeadworking, done by women, has a long history among the Maasai, who articulate their identity and position in society through body ornaments and body painting. Before contact with Europeans, the beads were produced mostly from local raw materials. White beads were made from clay, shells, ivory, or bone. Black and blue beads were made from iron, charcoal, seeds, clay, or horn. Red beads came from seeds, woods, gourds, bone, ivory, copper, or brass. When late in the nineteenth century, great quantities of brightly colored European glass beads arrived in Southeast Africa, beadworkers replaced the older beads with the new materials and began to use more elaborate color schemes. Currently, dense, opaque glass beads with no surface decoration and a naturally smooth finish are preferred.\n\nHead shaving is common at many rites of passage, representing the fresh start that will be made as one passes from one to another of life's chapters. Warriors are the only members of the Maasai community to wear long hair, which they weave in thinly braided strands.\n\nUpon reaching the age of 3 \"moons\", the child is named and the head is shaved clean apart from a tuft of hair, which resembles a cockade, from the nape of the neck to the forehead. The cockade symbolizes the \"state of grace\" accorded to infants. A woman who has miscarried in a previous pregnancy would position the hair at the front or back of the head, depending on whether she had lost a boy or a girl.\n\nTwo days before boys are circumcised, their heads are shaved. The young warriors then allow their hair to grow, and spend a great deal of time styling the hair. It is dressed with animal fat and ocher, and parted across the top of the head at ear level. Hair is then plaited: parted into small sections which are divided into two and twisted, first separately then together. Cotton or wool threads may be used to lengthen hair. The plaited hair may hang loose or be gathered together and bound with leather. When warriors go through the \"Eunoto\", and become elders, their long plaited hair is shaved off.\n\nAs males have their heads shaved at the passage from one stage of life to another, a bride to be will have her head shaved, and two rams will be slaughtered in honor of the occasion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38973165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38973165", "title": "Maltese in Egypt", "text": "Maltese in Egypt\n\nThe Maltese of Egypt, also known as Egyptian Franco-Maltese, are an ethnic minority group in Egypt. Though culturally very similar to the Franco-Maltese of Tunisia and Algeria, most people of Maltese or part-Maltese descent born in Egypt remained British subjects. They are immigrants, or descendants of immigrants, from the islands of Malta, who settled in Egypt largely during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and intermarried heavily with Italians, French and other Europeans. Those with a French father assumed French citizenship. Some Maltese had been present in the country as early as the era of Napoleon and his conquest of Egypt. The proximity between the two countries and the similarity between the Maltese and Arabic languages have led many Maltese to settle in Egypt in the past, mainly in Alexandria. Like the Italians who settled in Egypt, the Egyptian-born Maltese constituted a portion of Egypt's Roman Catholic community. By 1939, up to 20,000 Maltese were living in Egypt. Practically all of these were French-speaking, and those with a French parent had French as their mother tongue. In many middle-class families (especially in Alexandria and Cairo) a language shift had occurred, with Italian used as the home language alongside French; a large minority of Egyptian Maltese (for example those of the Suez Canal Zone) still retained Maltese as their mother tongue. This number was greatly reduced by emigration years after, and almost completely wiped out by expulsions in 1956 due to the Maltese being British nationals. Most of the Egyptian Franco-Maltese settled in Australia or Britain, where they remained culturally distinct from immigrants from Malta. Those with French citizenship were repatriated to France. Post-war Malta in general did not accept refugees from Egypt.\n\nCatholic Malta and predominantly Muslim North Africa have had troubled relations since at least the Crusades, when Malta became the final stand against the Turks by the Knights Hospitallers. Malta held, and after the Crusades many attacks against Arab and Turkish coastal towns were launched from it. Not all of the Maltese who joined the Knights in these attacks returned home. Some lost their liberty, settling against their will in North Africa.\n\nThe Knights remained in possession of Malta until its seizure by Napoleon Bonaparte in 1798. Bonaparte formed a troop of Maltese--the number of men varies in sources from 400 or 500 to 2000--who went with him into Egypt as part of the Mediterranean campaign of 1798. Many of these men settled in the Eastern Mediterranean after Napoleon's loss at the Battle of the Nile, becoming some of the first Maltese settlers in Egypt. Opportunity for work with the British drew more Maltese into the area thereafter, although there was an exodus of Maltese refugees back to their native land in 1822, when Alexandria was besieged by the British. Nevertheless, Alexandria, Cairo, Suez, Rosetta and Port Said continued to be a draw for Maltese settlers.\n\nMaltese immigrants joined the many others who flocked to the area for work in 1859 with the construction of the Suez Canal. The Egyptian Maltese community was heavily employed in such construction areas as masonry, carpentry, and smithing as well as in administration and commerce. Many became employees of the French Suez Canal Company. As English was known to some and they were quicker than Europeans to learn Arabic, they proved useful to British employers. Language became a major focus of the Maltese work force. While many had left their homes illiterate, speaking Maltese and usually also Italian, they sent their children to French Catholic schools where they developed fluency not only in French, which became the principal language of the subsequent generations, but also in English and Arabic. This education made them useful both in consular work and to European companies entering the area.\n\nRelations between the Maltese immigrants and the Egyptian population were not always easy. In Alexandria in 1882, a fight between a Maltese immigrant and an Egyptian donkey driver, in which the donkey driver was killed, led the Egyptians to riot. As word spread that the Europeans were killing Egyptians the residents took to the streets. They met return fire from Europeans, Greeks, Syrians and other Christians, with violence continuing until finally the army was called in to intervene.\n\nIn 1926, there were nearly 20,000 Maltese residents living and working in Egypt. However, the Suez Crisis of 1956, when Malta was used as a point of deployment by the British and French for troops to invade Egypt, was followed by the expulsion of Maltese immigrants, along with many other groups, from the country.\n\nEgyptian Maltese, like the very similar Tunisian Maltese and Algerian Maltese varieties, is an archaic form of the language, characterized by the preservation of late nineteenth-century features (including numerous Italian lexical elements now replaced by English loanwords in the Maltese of Malta), a large number of borrowings from French and a small number of Arabic loanwords and expressions relating to life in Egypt. As a majority of Egyptian-born Maltese had origins in the Cottonera (Three Cities) harbourside district of Malta, Cottoneran dialectalisms are another feature distinguishing Egyptian Maltese from the current metropolitan standard variety of the language.\n"}
{"id": "21859238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21859238", "title": "Mennonites in Belize", "text": "Mennonites in Belize\n\nMennonites in Belize form different religious bodies and come from different ethnic backgrounds. There are groups of Mennonites living in Belize, who are quite traditional and conservative (e. g. in Shipyard and Upper Barton Creek), while others have modernized to various degrees (e. g. in Spanish Lookout and Blue Creek).\n\nThere were 4,961 members as of 2014, but the total number including children and young unbaptized adults was around 12,000. Of these some 10,000 were ethnic Mennonites, most of them \"Russian\" Mennonites, who speak Plautdietsch, a Low German dialect. In addition to this, there were another 2,000 mostly Kriol and Mestizo Belizeans who had converted to Mennonitism.\n\nThe Friesian and Flemish ancestors of the vast majority of Belizean Mennonites settled in the Vistula delta (Poland) 1600-1791 then South Russia 1791 - 1873. In the years after 1873 some 11,000 left the Russian Empire and settled in Manitoba, Canada and an equal number went to the US. The more conservative ones left Canada between 1922 and 1925 and settled in Mexico. In the years after 1958 some 1,700 Mennonites from the Mexican settlements moved to what was then British Honduras. Mennonites from El Salvador moved to Belize during their civil war. The so-called \"Russian Mennonites\" speak Plautdietsch in everyday life among themselves. There are also some hundred Pennsylvania German speaking Old Order Mennonites who came from the USA and Canada in the late 1960s and settle now in Upper Barton Creek and daughter settlements.\n\nMennonites are easily identified by their clothing, except from the ones who have modernized to a large degree or have never been traditional, because they have converted in recent times. The women wear bonnets and long dresses while the men wear denim overalls and hats. The men may wear traditional suspenders and dark trousers. The women wear brightly colored dresses. In many of the Mennonite communities there is a softening of the old tradition. In Upper Barton Creek and daughter settlements, men and women dress similar to the Old Order Amish. Both Old Colony Mennonites and Noah Hoover Mennonites use horse drawn buggies for transportation, but only the Noah Hoovers also till fields with horse drawn implements.\n\nTraditional Mennonites conduct burial services mainly in German, but with some parts in English so that visitors can take part. They use bibles like other Christians. The caskets are made of plain lumber which is lined with white cloth inside and black cloth outside. Expensive caskets are not used. A portion of the shoulder remains open during the service. After the rites the whole congregation files orderly to the front of the church to pay their last respect. In Spanish Lookout, members and friends of the deceased address the congregation after the obituary has been read. Tombs are not used, but a cross marks the name and spot. Before returning the body to the earth, hymns are sung. Members of the community take turns shoveling the earth until the burial is complete. After that the community comes together and feasts on bread, sausages and coffee with the bereaved family.\n\nWeddings usually start with courtship and last for six months to a year. The boy's parents ask the girl's father for permission. After that the parents get together and set wedding dates. The penultimate Saturday evening before the wedding is called \"Falafnes\" (Standard German: \"Verlöbnis\"). On this event, the friend of the bride and the groom share the bible reading. Weddings are performed on Sundays. They usually consist of two ministers, one to explain the meaning of matrimony and the other to do the blessings. Gifts given are usually tools and household items.\n\nMennonites from the Noah Hoover group in Upper Barton Creek and daughter settlements are extremely restrictive concerning the use of motors and electricity, that is, both motors and electricity are forbidden in the settlement by the members of the group. Their clothing is very similar to the Old Order Amish, and men wear beards like the Amish. Therefore, they are often perceived as Amish and called Amish, even though this is not the case. This has caused some confusion.\n\nThe Mennonites have made it a point to have their own school, church, and financial institution in their community.\n\nThe vast majority, more than 95%, of ethnic Mennonites in Belize speak Plautdietsch in everyday life. A small minority of very conservative Mennonites that came from North America mostly in the second half of the 1960s speak Pennsylvania German instead. Both groups use Standard German for reading the Bible, in school and in Church. English and Belizean Spanish are used mainly by men for communication outside their communities, Belizean Spanish is also spoken by descendants of Mexican Mennonites and Salvadoran Mennonites. Almost all Mennonites from churches who do outreach in Belize, e. g. Beachy Amish Mennonites, speak mainly English. Mennonites from other ethnic backgrounds use their ethno-languages.\n\nThe total population of Mennonites, including unbaptized children, stood at 4,959 in 1987. The major colonies with their population in 1987 were Shipyard (1,946), Spanish Lookout (1,125) and Little Belize (1,004). Richmond Hill existed only from 1960 to 1965. Presently in Belize there are different communities of Mennonites, namely Shipyard, Blue Creek, Little Belize, Spanish Lookout, Indian Creek, Upper and Lower Barton Creek, Springfield and Pine Hill. In 1999, the Mennonites (excluding converts from other groups) had a birth rate of 42.53 per 1000, which was well above the national average of 30.71 per 1000.\n\nThere are four newer colonies: Bird Walk (founded 2012) and Roseville, which are daughter colonies from Upper Barton Creek and Springfield and Green Hills which is affiliated with the Mennonites of Pine Hill and New Land.\n\nSmaller outreaches of Conservative Mennonites can be found in numerous communities throughout Belize.\n\nAs Mennonites accept only adults as members, the total population of the Mennonite congregations in Belize is underestimated by membership counts. The largest denomination was Altkolonier Mennoniten Gemeinde with 2,052 members. Other denominations were Kleine Gemeinde zu Spanish Lookout with 710 members and Kleine Gemeinde zu Blue Creek with 60 members, Iglesia Evangélica Menonita de Belice with 400 members (mostly Mestizos), Evangelical Mennonite Mission Conference with 388 members, Beachy Amish Mennonite Fellowship with 140 members, Caribbean Light and Truth with 137 members (mostly Kriol) and Church of God in Christ, Mennonite with 42 members (mostly Kriol) (All figures as of 2006).\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>\n\nMennonites in Belize contribute to the carpentry, engineering and agricultural industries of Belize. They produce milk, cheese, beans, corn, melons, honey, chicken, and eggs. They have turned sections of tropical jungle into highly productive farmland. They are also skilled in manufacturing household furniture as well as constructing houses.\n\nWhile the Mennonites in Belize have been very prosperous in agriculture, Michael Trapasso wrote, in a 1992 article published in GeoJournal, that there have been complaints that they often do so with no regard for the environment or environmental laws. Trapasso wrote that the environmental impact of their farming methods leads to large scale deforestation.\n\nIn a paper of the FAO the following is stated about Mennonites in Belize. (Even though the report speaks of \"Amish\", meant are Old Order Mennonites of the Noah Hoover group who live in settlements like Upper Barton Creek, Springfield and Pine Hill):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41265553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41265553", "title": "Mexico Peace Index", "text": "Mexico Peace Index\n\nThe Mexico Peace Index (MPI) is one in a series of National Peace Indices produced by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP). The MPI provides a comprehensive measure of peacefulness in Mexico, the fifth edition of the MPI was released in 2017. The report is released in both Spanish and English, and analyzes the economic benefits that would occur from increases in peace, and provides an estimate relating to the economic impact violence has had on Mexico.\n\nThe Index uses the same definition of peace as the Global Peace Index, United States Peace Index and United Kingdom Peace Index, which it defines as the absence of violence or the absence of the fear of violence.\n\nEach year a large press conference is held and attended by many civil society reps, including INEGI, COMCE, Coparmex, FEMSA, Mexico Evalua, Mexico Contra la Delincuencia. Additionally the press conferences are attended by journalists from multiple media outlets including the Wall Street Journal, AFP, EFE, Xinhua, NY Times, Telemundo, Reforma, El Universal, El Economista, TV Azteca, Milenio TV, Expansion, Radio Formula, MVS Radio, W Radio, Notimex. Each year the launch of the report generates wide spread domestic media coverage, with 500 media pieces covering the 2017 launch.\n\nThe most peaceful states in the 2017 MPI report:\nLeast peaceful states in the 2017 MPI report :\nThe 2017 MPI Expert Panel:\n\nThe Mexico Peace Index uses five indicators to measure peace at the state level: detention without a sentence, homicides, violent crimes, weapons crimes, and organized crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "20249443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20249443", "title": "Milki", "text": "Milki\n\nThe Milki are a Muslim community found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They are also known as Malik, and found entirely in the Awadh region. A small number of Milki are also found in Karachi in Pakistan. The Milki, together with the Qidwai, Malik and Chaudhary are one of the four sub-group of a community who collectively form the Mian Muslim. The Mian Muslim were once a community of substantial landowners in the Awadh region.\n\nThe Milki get their name from the fact that their ancestors were a class to whom revenue free grants (\"milk\" in Persian) of land were made during the period of the Delhi Sultanate. They were given these grants of land as an incentive to settle the land. In Unnao District, they were substantial landowners, and played an important role in the history of that district. \n\nThey were also the scribes, administrators, writers, magistrates, judges. lawyers, chief executive officers and village accountants in the Awadh region. The Milki were also appointed to the position of clerks and official record keepers by the state. As part of their duties, they learnt Turkish and Arabic, economics, administration and taxation. They successfully adapted themselves as scribes and functionaries under the new colonial British. The Milki have much in common with the neighbouring Muslim community, the Kayatha Muslim, with whom they share many traditions and customs.\n\nThe Milki of Unnao District claim to be Siddiqui Shaikhs, while those of Azamgarh and Ballia claim to be of Turk origin. All the various groups of Milki intermarry, and there are also instances of intermarriage with the Qidwai and Kayastha Muslim communities. The Milki are also found in the districts of Faizabad, Pratapgarh, Barabanki and Allahabad. Some Milk are Sunni, while other are Shia. They speak standard Urdu, although most also have an understanding of the Awadhi dialect of Hindi.\n\n"}
{"id": "26348176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26348176", "title": "Mirbahar", "text": "Mirbahar\n\nMirbahar is a Sindhi tribe in Sindh, Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "48622626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48622626", "title": "Miroslaw Romanowski Medal", "text": "Miroslaw Romanowski Medal\n\nThe Miroslaw Romanowski Medal is awarded annually by the Royal Society of Canada \"for significant contributions to the resolution of scientific aspects of environmental problems or for important improvements to the quality of an ecosystem in all aspects - terrestrial, atmospheric and aqueous - brought about by scientific means\". \n\nEstablished in 1994, the medal is named in honour of the metrologist Mirosław Romanowski.\n\nSource: Royal Society of Canada\n\n"}
{"id": "7037370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7037370", "title": "Nudity in combat", "text": "Nudity in combat\n\nThe practice of entering combat without the use of clothing and armor is rare; apart from the social aspects of nudity, the combatant lacks even the basic protection of clothes, for instance when diving for cover or crawling. Also the combatant misses the practicality of hiding/carrying objects in pockets and attached to clothes.\n\nThe artistic convention of heroic nudity, however, was established in the art of ancient Greece by the Archaic period.\n\nPolybius' Histories describe how the Gaesatae, hired by other Celtic peoples, the Boii and Insubres as mercenaries to fight the Romans, stood naked at the head of their army at the Battle of Telamon in 225BC. Diodorus Siculus reported other instances of such combat: \"Some use iron breast-plates in battle, while others fight naked, trusting only in the protection which nature gives.\" Another possible reason for this was to avoid infection of wounds caused by contact with contaminated clothing and debris.\n\nLivy tells of how the Tolistobogii of Galatia fought naked, being proud of their spilt blood and even widening gashes they received themselves. \n\nJulius Caesar records in his account of the Gallic War that the Gauls went into battle naked save for their weapons.\n\nSometimes the soldiers wore no clothing but were covered in war paint, a custom that allegedly gave the Picts their name.\n\nIn some present martial arts which are designed to be fit for military fighting, full or partial nudity still occurs. The traditional \"donga\" style of stick fighting practiced by the young warriors, now bearing firearms, of the Omo Valley Suri tribe of South Sudan and western Ethiopia, is often practiced entirely naked: serious injury is not uncommon, and it is occasionally fatal. Another example is the stick fighting style of the neighbouring Nyangatom, which fight bare-chested; the goal is to mark the adversary with visible stripes on the back.\n\nIn the Vietnam War, Vietcong sappers used to slip through the barbed wire naked or almost naked.\n\nIn modern Liberia, soldiers under \"General Butt Naked\" Joshua Blahyi fought naked in order to terrorize their opponents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40013093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40013093", "title": "Party of crooks and thieves", "text": "Party of crooks and thieves\n\nParty of crooks and thieves ( – \"Partiya zhulikov i vorov\", abbr. – \"PZhiV\") is a popular expression among the opposition in Russia used to refer to the ruling United Russia party, led by Dmitry Medvedev and Vladimir Putin. It was coined by blogger and anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalny in February 2011.\n\nOn February 2, 2011 in an interview with Finam FM radio station, blogger and anti-corruption activist Alexey Navalny responded to the question about United Russia:\nThe English version \"party of crooks and thieves\" first appeared in an article of \"The New Yorker\" on April 4, 2011 by Russian-born American journalist Julia Ioffe.\n\nThe slogan was widely used during the 2011 Russian legislative election campaign by parties and individuals.\n\nPosters, banners, stickers were common during the protests in 2011 and 2012.\n\nA Levada Center survey on July 19, 2011 revealed that 33% of Russian agree with that United Russia is a \"party of crooks and thieves\", while 47% disagreed. Another survey by the same center in June 2012 showed an increase in respondents agreeing with the characterization. Of the total, 47% agreed and 40% disagreed. The latest survey was conducted in April 2013 by Levada Center. For the first time since 2011, it showed the majority of Russians (51%) agreeing with the phrase. At the same poll, 62% of Russian said United Russia members are about \"maintaining and strengthening their own power.\"\n\nIn February 2011, Navalny created a poll in his LiveJournal blog in which around 38,000 people participated with over 96% agreeing with the characterization of United Russia as \"party of crooks and thieves\".\n\nOn October 11, 2011 the Lyublinsky District Court rejected the lawsuit of United Russia member Vladimir Svirid against Navalny.\n\nOn November 24, 2011 during a debate on Rossiya 1, State Duma Member Alexander Khinshtein (a member of United Russia) stated:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38384851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38384851", "title": "Peter Keller (murder suspect)", "text": "Peter Keller (murder suspect)\n\nPeter Keller (died 2012) was an American survivalist and suspected murderer who admitted to killing his wife and daughter in a video diary. He killed himself while evading capture in a bunker he built in Rattlesnake Ridge in King County, Washington.\n"}
{"id": "43836297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43836297", "title": "Romani people in Poland", "text": "Romani people in Poland\n\nRomani people in Poland (, commonly known as Gypsies ) are one of Poland's recognized ethnic minorities. \n\nAccording to the Polish census of 2011, 17049 people in Poland declared themselves as Romani people.\n\nThe recorded history of the Romani people in Poland dates to the 15th century.\n\nMajor ethnic subgroups of Romani people in Poland are: the Polska Roma, the Bergitka (Carpathian) Roma, Kalderash and Lovari.\n\n"}
{"id": "31738246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31738246", "title": "Sambia people", "text": "Sambia people\n\nThe Sambia people are a tribe of mountain-dwelling, hunting and horticultural people who inhabit the fringes of the Eastern Highlands Province of Papua New Guinea, and are extensively described by the American anthropologist Gilbert Herdt. The Sambia a pseudonym created by Herdt himself are well known by cultural anthropologists for their acts of pedophilic \"ritualized homosexuality\" and semen ingestion practices with pubescent boys. In his studies of the Sambia, Herdt describes the people in light of their sexual culture and how their practices shape the masculinities of adolescent Sambia boys.\n\nThe full initiation is reported to start with members of the tribe being removed from their mothers at the age of nine. This process is not always voluntary and can involve threats of death. The children are then beaten and stabbed in their nostrils with sticks to make them bleed. In the next stage the children are hit with stinging nettles. The boys are then dressed in ritual clothing and an attempt is made to force them to suck on ritual flutes. The boys are then taken to a cult house and older boys dance in front of them making sexual gestures. Once it gets darker the younger boys are taken to the dancing ground where they are expected to perform fellatio on the older boys.\n\nMale Rites of Passages:\n\n\nThe Sambia people believe in the necessity of gender roles within their culture. Relationships between men and women of all ages, within this tribe, are complex, with many rules and restrictions. For example, boys are removed from their mothers at age seven, to strip them of contact with their mothers. They even perform a ritual called \"blood letting\" on the boys who have just been isolated from their mothers to rid them of their mother's contaminated blood that has a presence within them. This separation is due to their fear of the women in the tribe, as men are taught at a young age about the women's ability to emasculate and manipulate men. The women possess what the sambia call \"tingu\", through which they use their manipulation skills. To combat the women's sorcery, the men go through rites of passage, in which they learn to safely have intercourse with women without becoming metaphorically trapped. The women are also separated from the men when they go through their menstrual cycle. During this time they stay in the \"menarche hut\" because of the belief that the women's powers are strengthened during this time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51901605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51901605", "title": "Seven Murders of the Narayanganj", "text": "Seven Murders of the Narayanganj\n\nNarayanganj Seven Murder is the primarily enforced disappearance and eventually the murder of seven people including a panel-mayor of Narayanganj City Corporation and a lawyer in April 2014. 27 Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) members, including three top RAB 11 officials, were involved in the abduction and killing.\n\nNazrul Islam, a panel mayor of Narayanganj City Corporation who was in good terms with Mayor Dr. Selina Hayat Ivy, with three associates and his driver went missing from Fatullah area of Narayanganj on 27 April 2014. His lawyer Chandan Kumar Sarker who was following the car of Nazrul Islam, also went missing on the same day with his driver from the same place. Within one week of the event, the dead bodies of the victims were seen floating on the Shitalakshya River on which the Narayanganj District stands on. Two cases were filed in connection with the murders. Nazrul's wife Selina Islam Beauty filed a case against six people, including vice-president of Siddhirganj Awami League and Councillor Nur Hossain, while Chandan's son-in-law Bijoy Kumar Paul filed the other case against Nazmul Haque partner of an engineering firm and some unknown people. Nazrul's father-in-law Shahidul Islam alleged that Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) personnel abducted and killed Nazrul in exchange for Tk 60 million from local ward councillor Nur Hossain.\n\nSeveral probe committees were formed by the government, Police and RAB. CID was given the charge to investigate the case as per the directive of the High Court while the government assigned Detective Branch of Police with the task. On 12 November 2014, the Supreme Court after hearing a petition of attorney general exempted CID from the investigation. More than a year later, on 4 June 2015, the High Court directed RAB, the government's seven-member probe committee, the inspector general of police and the CID to submit progress reports on their investigations. RAB found 21 of its members including three top officials of RAB-11 unit involved in the incident. The RAB personnel are: Hamidul Haque, Hira Miah, Belal Hossain, Abu Tayab, and Arif Hossain, all of whom are the members of RAB 11.\n\nThe three top official of RAB 11 unit Lt Colonel Tareque Sayeed, Lt Commander Masud Rana and Major Arif Hossain made confessions of their involvement in the case. All the three top officials of RAB, including Tareque Sayeed, who is the son-in-law of Food and Relief Minister Mofazzal Hossain Chowdhury were sent to forced retirement by the military forces of the country. Shahidul claimed some labourers saw RAB men and Nur Hossain, Nazmul Haque and some more civil abduct Nazrul near Shibu Market in Narayanganj on 27 April. Nur Hossain,the prime accused in the case who fled to India after the murders took place, was arrested in Kolkata on 14 June 2015. And the other one (Nazmul Haque) is missing after November 2014 in the same place in India. In 12 November 2015, Indian government handed over Nur Hossain to Bangladesh.\n\nAfter years of investigation, the Detective Branch of Police pressed a charge sheet against 35 people on 8 April 2015. On 8 February, after a number of hearings, the Narayanganj court indicted all the 35 names of the charge sheet for the seven murder incident. The formal trial of the case in Narayanganj began on 29 February 2016 and the process is ongoing. On 16 January 2017, a Narayanganj court awarded death penalty to 26 people including former Awami League leader Nur Hossain and 16 ex-RAB officials including Tareque Sayeed, Arif Hossain, and Masud Rana in the seven-murder case. Nine other associates of Nur Hossain and ex-RAB members were also sentenced to different terms in the verdict. The judge on his verdict, said that the charges of abduction, murder, concealing the bodies, conspiracy and destroying evidences were proved beyond any doubt.\n"}
{"id": "38304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38304", "title": "Sexual abstinence", "text": "Sexual abstinence\n\nSexual abstinence or sexual restraint is the practice of refraining from some or all aspects of sexual activity for medical, psychological, legal, social, financial, philosophical, moral, or religious reasons. Asexuality is distinct from sexual abstinence; and celibacy is sexual abstinence generally motivated by factors such as an individual's personal or religious beliefs. Sexual abstinence before marriage is required in some societies by social norms, or, in some countries, even by laws, and is considered part of chastity.\n\nAbstinence may be voluntary (when an individual chooses not to engage in sexual activity due to moral, religious, philosophical, etc. reasons), an involuntary result of social circumstances (when one cannot find any willing sexual partners), or legally mandated (e.g. in countries where sexual activity outside marriage is illegal, in prisons etc.).\n\nThe ancient world discouraged promiscuity for both health and social reasons. According to Pythagoras (6th century BCE) sex should be practiced in the winter, but not the summer, but was harmful to male health in every season because the loss of semen was dangerous, hard to control and both physically and spiritually exhausting, but had no effect on females. This idea may have been merged with Zoroastrian ideas of good and evil in a philosophy known as gnosticism, which influenced Christian and Islamic attitudes to sexual activity. But others stated that the Christian religion's hold on to the ideal of sexual abstinence prior to the appearing of gnosticism and Zoroastrianism and its root are to be found in the Old Testament (which is the base of the New Testament) in which virginity was required by law and marriage was especially protected (see Deuteronomy chapter 22).\n\nThroughout history, and especially prior to the 20th century, there have been those who have held that sexual abstinence confers numerous health benefits. For males, lack of abstinence was thought to cause a reduction of vitality. In modern times, the argument has been phrased in biological terms, claiming that loss of semen through ejaculation results in a depletion of vital nutrients such as lecithin and phosphorus, which are also found at high levels in the brain. Conservation of the semen allegedly allows it to be reabsorbed back into the bloodstream and aid in the healthy development of the body. Along these lines, the noted German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche spoke of the positive physiological effects of abstinence: \"The reabsorption of semen by the blood ... perhaps prompts the stimulus of power, the unrest of all forces towards the overcoming of resistances ... The feeling of power has so far mounted highest in abstinent priests and hermits\" (quoted by Walter Kaufman in his classic, \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\", p. 222). Before the \"sexual revolution\" of the 1960s, it was commonly believed by members of the medical profession that numerous mental and physical diseases in men were caused primarily by loss of nutrients through seminal discharge, and that the deliberate conservation of this substance would lead to increased health, vitality, and intellectual prowess. This also applied to masturbation, which was also thought to lead to bedwetting and hairy palms.\n\nSome advantages in favor of sexual abstinence were also claimed by Walter Siegmeister, better known as Dr. Raymond W. Bernard A.B., M.A., PhD, an early 20th-century American alternative health, esoteric writer, author and mystic, who formed part of the alternative reality subculture. In his essay entitled \"Science discovers the physiological value of continence\" (1957) he states:\n\nHistorically, there has been a swing from the sexually liberal end of the Industrial Revolution to the chaste values of the early Victorian period. This was then followed by a new puritanism from the late Victorian era to the mid-1900s. This important transformation often colors discussion of sexual behavior in the later 20th century. World War I began a return to sexual freedom and indulgence, but more often than not, the appearance of conforming to the earlier moral values of abstinence before marriage was retained. With the conclusion of World War II, the societal importance of abstinence declined. The advent of the first oral contraceptive pill and widely available antibiotics suppressed many consequences of wide and free sexual behavior, while social morals were also changing. By the 1970s, abandonment of premarital chastity was no longer taboo in the majority of western societies, and the reverse became true. Some cultural groups continued to place a value on the moral purity of an abstainer, but abstinence was caught up in a wider reevaluation of moral values.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, prominent feminist and birth control advocate Margaret Sanger argued that abstinence from sexual activity led to greater endurance and strength, and was a sign of the best of the species:\n\nSexual abstinence can be practiced during the period in which the woman is fertile.\n\nIn most cultural, ethical, and religious contexts, sex within marriage is not considered to be contrary to notions of chastity. Some religious systems prohibit sexual activities between a person and anyone other than a spouse of that person, as have, in the past, legal systems and societal norms. In such contexts, sexual abstinence was prescribed for unmarried individuals for the purpose of chastity. \"Chastity\" has been used as a synonym for sexual abstinence, they are similar but with different behavior and restrictions.\n\nIn some countries any sexual activity outside marriage is illegal. Such laws are mostly tied to religion and the legal and political traditions within the particular jurisdiction. Laws differ greatly from country to country. In some Muslim countries, such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Mauritania, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Sudan, Yemen, any form of sexual activity outside marriage is illegal.\n\nIn some parts of the world, men, women, boys or girls suspected of having premarital sex or homosexual sex can become victims of honor killings committed by their families. Stoning for sexual activity outside marriage is also a punishment in some places.\n\nAbstinence-only sex education is a form of sex education that teaches abstinence from sex, and often excludes many other types of sexual and reproductive health education, particularly regarding birth control and safe sex. Education programs which focus exclusively on abstinence have hardly been shown to delay sexual activity. Such programs promote sexual abstinence until marriage and often also condemn the use of contraceptives. Comprehensive sex education, by contrast, covers the use of contraceptives as well as abstinence.\n\nOrganizations such as SIECUS have called abstinence-only programs \"fear-based,\" and \"designed to control young people’s sexual behavior by instilling fear, shame, and guilt.\" Author Judith Levine has argued that there might be a natural tendency of abstinence educators to escalate their messages: \"Like advertising, which must continually jack up its seduction just to stay visible as other advertising proliferates, abstinence education had to make sex scarier and scarier and, at the same time, chastity sweeter.\"\n\nIn spite of these criticisms, federal government support has made abstinence the de facto focus of sex education in the United States, so that opponents frequently adopt the line that abstinence education is acceptable only if it is combined with other methods, such as instruction in the use of condoms, and easy availability thereof. Most nations of Western Europe use more comprehensive measures, and in sharp contrast to the heated discussion in the U.S., abstinence is hardly discussed as an educational measure.\n\nA U.S. federal government-promoted abstinence-only program was aimed at teens in 1981 in order to discourage premarital sex and unwanted pregnancies. However, recent studies conducted by Mathematica Policy Research, showed ineffectiveness of this program. The Responsible Education About Life Act was introduced by Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Christopher Shays (R-CT) to support age-appropriate sexual education. This program is focused to provide teenagers with science-based information on sexual health, so that they can make a sound decision regarding their sex-life.\n\nIn 2006, the George W. Bush administration expanded abstinence programs from teens to adults, by introducing programs to encourage unmarried adults to remain abstinent until marriage. Family-planning advocates and researchers denounced the program as unrealistic, due to the rising age of first-time marriage in the United States. In 2009, the Barack Obama administration removed most of the funding from sexual-abstinence education, and instead used the money to fund the Office of Adolescent Health, designed to prevent teenage pregnancy through evidence-based programs.\n\nIn 2010, University of Pennsylvania researchers released a model study showing that abstinence programs can be effective. The study randomly assigned some middle-school students to an eight-hour abstinence curriculum and others to sex-ed programs that included contraceptives and mixed messages. Penn researchers found that the abstinence-only offering reduced subsequent sexual activity by one-third more than other programs.\n\nThe advent of AIDS helped build a more favorable view of abstinence. However, a review of 13 U.S. sex-abstinence programs involving over 15,000 people by Oxford University found that they do not stop risky sexual behavior, or help in the prevention of unwanted pregnancy. Other studies have found that abstinence-only education does little to affect the \"age of sexual initiation; number of sexual partners; and rates of sexual abstinence, condom use,\nvaginal sex, pregnancy, and sexually transmitted infections (STIs)\" Recently, the United States Congress also found similar results in a study conducted by Mathematica Policy Research on abstinence. Currently, there are also issues as to what abstinence means: is it an abstinence from sexual intercourse, or from sexual behavior? Movements such as True Love Waits in America, which ask teenagers to refrain from sex before marriage, are heavily subscribed, but surveys of sexual behavior indicate an increase in the popularity of oral sex.\n\nAlfred Kinsey is widely regarded as the first and among the most influential figures in American sexology; his research is cited as having paved the way for a deeper exploration into sexuality among sexologists and the general public, and as having liberated female sexuality. According to Alfred Kinsey sexual ignorance led to real suffering in society and that sexual liberation, as opposed to sexual abstinence, was the key to both a strong marriage and a happy life. Kinsey believed that abstinence was a sexual dysfunction: \"The only kinds of sexual dysfunction are abstinence, celibacy and delayed marriage.\"\n\nJ. D. Unwin was a British ethnologist and social anthropologist at Oxford University and Cambridge University. Joseph Unwin wrote several books including \"Sex and Culture\", (1934). In \"Sex and Culture\" Unwin studied 80 primitive tribes and 6 known civilizations through 5,000 years of history and found a positive correlation between the cultural achievement of a people and the amount of sexual restraint which they observed. The author finds that the most culturally successful groups always exhibit lifelong monogamous relationships which include sexual abstinence outside of marriage. According to Unwin, after a nation becomes prosperous it becomes increasingly liberal with regard to sexual morality and as a result loses its cohesion, its impetus and its purpose, ultimately having a negative effect on society: \"The whole of human history does not contain a single instance of a group becoming civilized unless it has been absolutely monogamous, nor is there any example of a group retaining its culture after it has adopted less rigorous customs.\"\n\nLifelong (or at least long-term) abstinence, often associated with philosophical or religious asceticism, is distinguished from chastity before marriage. Abstinence is often viewed as an act of self-control over the natural desire to have sex. The display of the strength of character allows the abstainer to set an example for those not able to contain their \"base urges\". At other times, abstinence has been seen as a great social skill practiced by those who refuse to engage with the material and physical world. Some groups and teachers that propose sexual abstinence consider it an essential means to reach a particular intellectual or spiritual condition, or that chastity allows one to achieve a required self-control or self-consciousness.\n\nSome religions regard chastity as a virtue expected of faithful adherents. This usually includes abstinence from sex for the unmarried, and fidelity to a marriage partner.\n\nIn some religions, some groups of people are expected to remain unmarried and to abstain from sex completely. These groups include monks, nuns, and priests in various sects of Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Christianity. Chastity is required of the respective sacerdotal orders. The Shakers, on the other hand, impose chastity in the form of celibacy for all members, even forgoing procreation such as the case with the castration cult.\n\nThere are many Christians who teach that sexual intercourse is meant to take place within the context of marriage, and that sexual abstinence is the norm outside of that. But for married couples, Paul of Tarsus wrote that they should not deprive each other, except for a short time for devotion to prayer.\n\nCatholicism defines chastity as the virtue that moderates the sexual appetite. Unmarried Catholics express chastity through sexual abstinence. Sexual intercourse within marriage is considered chaste when it retains the twofold significance of union and procreation. See also the Evangelical counsels. The Methodist Church teaches that \"Although all persons are sexual beings whether or not they are married, sexual relations are only clearly affirmed in the marriage bond.\" The Orthodox Church teaches chastity until marriage. But even then, in accordance with the teaching of the Apostle Paul, periods of abstinence are encouraged among married couples. Traditionally, Orthodox spouses abstain from physical relations on Wednesdays, Fridays, Saturdays the eves of Great Feasts and throughout the four lenten periods (Great Lent. Nativity Fast, Apostles' Fast and Dormition Fast).\n\nHowever, some churches, such as the United Church of Christ, are \"liberal in their approaches, believing that individuals must decide for themselves how to express their sexual nature.\"\n\nThe Indian tradition of Brahmacharya places great emphasis on abstinence as a way of harnessing the energy of body and mind towards the goal of spiritual realization. In males, the semen (Vīrya) is considered sacred, and its preservation (except when used for procreation) and conversion into higher life-energy (Ojas) is considered essential for the development of enhanced intellectual and spiritual capacities.\n\nThe blending of sexual and spiritual is portrayed in Hindu iconography, as seen in ubiquitous phallic and vaginal iconography in Hindu temples and for instance in the Kharjuraho and Konarak medieval temples, where thousands of couples having sex in endless positions, and with the gods, are carved in deep bas-relief. However, these depictions of sex are not generally understood to be a license for free sexual practices, but are instead meant to celebrate procreation as an integral part of existence in the universe. In actual practice, there is a strong societal taboo against pre-marital sex for both males and females, which still exists today in Hindu cultures.\n\nIslam forbids intercourse outside of marriage (\"zina\"). However, maintaining celibacy as an act of piety is not recognized, while marriage for all who are able is strongly encouraged. Abstinence is practiced during the time of a woman's menstruation. Abstinence from sexual intercourse is also practiced from dawn to dusk during days where fasting is observed. Also in the time of Hajj people are not allowed to have sexual relationships, because their body has to stay pure while performing pilgrimage.\n\n\"Brahmacharya\" is one of the five major vows prescribed for the \"śrāvakā\" (layman) and ascetics in Jainism. For those Jains who adopt the path of monks, celibacy in action, words and thoughts is expected. For lay Jains who are married, the virtue of \"brahmacharya\" requires remaining sexually faithful to one's chosen partner (fidelity). For lay Jains who are unmarried, chaste living requires Jains to avoid sex before marriage.\n\nIn the Jain monastic tradition, \"brahmacharya\" implies, among other things, the mandatory renunciation of sex and marriage. For a lay Jain, it represents a virtuous lifestyle devoid of constant sexual urges, that also includes simple living, meditation and other behaviors.\n\nJudaism forbids intercourse outside marriage (which is termed \"znut\" or promiscuity), but has no ideal of chastity. Within marriage abstinence is also required during and following a woman's menstruation. The husband is not allowed to deprive sex from his wife, even if she is not fertile (known as \"mitzvat onah\").\n\nAmong some groups of people, the wearing of a purity ring is a reminder to oneself and others, that they are practicing sexual abstinence.\nAbstinence prevents the spread of sexually transmitted diseases such as pelvic inflammatory disease, HPV and others.\n\n\"Early sexual debut is associated with certain long-term negative sexual health outcomes, including increased sexual risk behaviors and problems in sexual functioning. Late initiation was also associated with sexual problems, especially among men.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35445039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35445039", "title": "Sherbourne Common", "text": "Sherbourne Common\n\nSherbourne Common, designed by landscape architect Phillips Farevaag Smallenberg, is a waterfront park located in a former industrial area of Toronto. It is one of the earliest parks in Canada to incorporate a neighborhood-wide storm water treatment facility into its design. Located east of Lower Sherbourne Street, the 1.47 hectare park spans two city blocks. It stretches from Lake Ontario to Lake Shore Boulevard in the north.\nSherbourne Common consists of a 240 meter long water channel featuring three art sculptures that rise nine meters, called \"Light Showers\", by artist Jill Anholt. The sculptures were made off-site utilizing reinforced fiberglass molds that were filled with agila concrete. In total, there are 182 planted trees, 108 Pacific Sunset Maple, 45 Red Oak, and 29 American Beech. The storm water treatment facility is located in the basement of the park’s Pavilion. The plant treats the water and then returns it into the park through the three art installations.\n\nThis Toronto park follows through on water efficient landscaping, while the Pavilion meets Toronto's Green Building Requirements and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.\nStorm-water treatment facility in the Pavilion is powered by the renewable energy sources. Purified water is pushed through three concrete public art objects, each 9 metres high, into the man made water feature e.g. canal.\nExcess purified water is released into the Lake Ontario.\n\nThe park has bicycle storage and access to public transportation.\n"}
{"id": "10469491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10469491", "title": "State of Vietnam referendum, 1955", "text": "State of Vietnam referendum, 1955\n\nThe State of Vietnam referendum of 1955 determined the future form of government of the State of Vietnam, the nation that was to become the Republic of Vietnam (widely known as South Vietnam). It was contested by Prime Minister Ngô Đình Diệm, who proposed a republic, and former emperor Bảo Đại. Bảo Đại had abdicated as emperor in 1945 and at the time of the referendum held the title of head of state. Though published counts showed Diệm winning the election with 98.2% of the vote, the referendum was widely marred by electoral fraud. In the capital, Saigon, Diệm was credited with more than 600,000 votes, although only 450,000 people were on the electoral roll. He accumulated tallies in excess of 90% of the registered voters, even in rural regions where opposition groups prevented voting.\n\nThe referendum was the last phase in the power struggle between Bảo Đại and his prime minister. Bảo Đại disliked Diệm and had frequently attempted to undermine him, having appointed him only because he was a conduit to American aid. At the time, the country was going through a period of insecurity, as Vietnam had been temporarily partitioned as a result of the 1954 Geneva Accords that ended the First Indochina War. The State of Vietnam controlled the southern half of the country, pending national elections that were intended to reunify the country under a common government. Still, the Vietnamese National Army was not in full control of southern Vietnam; the Cao Đài and Hòa Hảo religious sects ran their own administrations in the countryside supported by private armies, while the Bình Xuyên organised crime syndicate controlled the streets of Saigon. Despite interference from these groups, Bảo Đại, and even French officials, Diệm managed to subdue the private armies and consolidate government control over the country by mid-1955.\n\nEmboldened by his success, Diệm began to plot Bảo Đại's downfall. He scheduled a referendum for 23 October 1955 and pushed Bảo Đại out of the political scene, hindering the former emperor's attempts to derail the poll. In the period leading up to the vote, campaigning for Bảo Đại was banned, while Diệm's election campaign focused on personal attacks against Bảo Đại. These included pornographic cartoons of the head of state and unverified rumours claiming he was illegitimate and linking him to various mistresses. The government-controlled media launched polemical attacks on Bảo Đại, and police went door-to-door, warning people of the consequences of failing to vote. After his brother Ngô Đình Nhu successfully rigged the poll, Diệm proclaimed himself president of the newly created Republic of Vietnam.\n\nThe defeat of the French Army at Điện Biên Phủ in 1954, followed by the Geneva Accords, led to a divided Vietnam. The French-backed State of Vietnam, led by former Emperor Bảo Đại, provisionally held control south of the 17th parallel. Hồ Chí Minh's Viet Minh held the north under the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, which Hồ Chí Minh had proclaimed in 1945. The agreements stated that nationwide elections were to be held in 1956 to unify the country under a common government. In July 1954, during the transition period, Bảo Đại appointed Diệm as Prime Minister of the State of Vietnam.\n\nOn 11 October 1954, the border was closed by the International Control Commission, after a period of 300 days during which free passage between both halves of Vietnam had been allowed. Under the Geneva Accords, anti-communist military personnel were obliged to evacuate to the south, while communist forces were to be moved north. Civilians were free to move to whichever zone they preferred. During the 300 days, Diệm and U.S. CIA adviser Colonel Edward Lansdale staged a campaign to convince people to move to South Vietnam. The campaign was particularly focused on Vietnam's Catholics, who were to provide Diệm's power base in his later years, with the use of the slogan \"God has gone south\". Between 800,000 and 1,000,000 people migrated to the south, mostly Catholics. At the start of 1955, French Indochina was dissolved, leaving Diệm in temporary control of the south.\n\nAt the time, Diệm had little authority beyond the gates of his own palace. Bảo Đại had little confidence in him and gave him meagre support—the pair had clashed in the past, with Diem resigning as Bảo Đại's Interior Minister two decades earlier, believing the head of state to be weak and ineffective. Many historians believe that Bảo Đại may have selected Diệm for the latter's ability to attract U.S. support and funding. During the transition period, the French Expeditionary Corps maintained a presence in South Vietnam. This led to tension between France and the State of Vietnam. Diệm, a passionate nationalist, detested the French, who reciprocated, hoping he would fail, even calling for his removal on occasions.\n\nDiệm faced challenges to his authority from four more groups. The Hòa Hảo and Cao Đài religious sects had private armies that controlled the Mekong Delta and the areas west of Saigon, respectively. The Bình Xuyên was an armed, organised crime empire that controlled much of Saigon with a 40,000 strong private army, while the Vietminh still controlled much of the rural area. Diệm's Vietnamese National Army (VNA) was led by General Nguyễn Văn Hinh, a French citizen who loathed and frequently disobeyed him. Bảo Đại sold the operating license of the national police to the Bình Xuyên, effectively putting administrative control of the police in the hands of a crime syndicate.\n\nAmid growing French and US skepticism of his ability to provide stable rule, Diệm forced the matter to a head in April 1955. He ordered the Bình Xuyên to relinquish control of the National Police and submit to his command by integrating into the VNA or disbanding, threatening to crush them if they refused. He bribed Hòa Hảo and Cao Đài commanders into joining the VNA, gradually resulting in the defection of some commanders and their units, while others continued to lead their forces against Saigon. The Bình Xuyên defied Diệm's ultimatum. On 27 April, the VNA initiated the Battle for Saigon. After a brief but violent battle that left between 500 and 1,000 people dead and about 20,000 homeless, the Bình Xuyên were crushed. Diệm had regained both U.S. confidence and control of the police. Jubilant crowds lauded Diệm and denounced Bảo Đại, who had tried to dismiss him in the middle of the battle to prevent him from quelling the Bình Xuyên. In addition, General Paul Ely, the head of the French presence in Vietnam, tried to impede Diệm; his troops put road blocks against the VNA and gave intelligence to the Bình Xuyên.\n\nBuoyed by his successes, and fueled by increased hatred of both the French and Bảo Đại after their attempts to prevent him from dismantling the Bình Xuyên, Diệm became more confident as he went about consolidating his hold on power. On 15 May, Diệm abolished Bảo Đại's Imperial Guard; its 5,000 men became the 11th and 42nd Infantry Regiments of the VNA. Diệm then stripped Bảo Đại of his extensive crown lands. On 15 June, Diệm had the Council of the Royal Family at Huế declare that Bảo Đại be stripped of his powers, and that he, Diệm, be made president. Bảo Đại's relatives condemned him for abdicating as head of state, and for his links with France and the Bình Xuyên. Historians have speculated that the royals agreed to turn on Bảo Đại so Diệm would not seize their assets.\n\nOn 7 July 1955, the first anniversary of his installation as prime minister, Diệm announced that a national referendum would be held to determine the future of the country. On 16 July, Diệm publicly announced his intention to not take part in the reunification elections: \"We will not be tied down by the [Geneva] treaty that was signed against the wishes of the Vietnamese people.\"\n\nDiệm contended that the Communists would never allow free elections in the north, so therefore South Vietnam must strike out on its own and establish a separate, non-Communist state. This was echoed by the Saigon press, which ran articles assailing communist elections as shambolic, rigged, and meaningless; at the time, the northern half of Vietnam had a greater population than the south. A month earlier, North Vietnamese Prime Minister Phạm Văn Đồng wrote to Saigon asking to begin negotiations over the specific details of the elections. While the Americans were happy to avoid elections because of fears of a communist victory, they hoped that Diệm would enter the dialogue over planning matters and wait for North Vietnam to object to a proposal, and thus use it to blame Ho [Chi Minh] for violating the Geneva Accords. The Americans had earlier advised Diệm, who had been acting in defiance of Bảo Đại, that continued aid was contingent on Diệm establishing a legal basis for usurping the head of state's power.\n\nOn 6 October 1955, Diệm announced the referendum would be held on 23 October. The election was open to men and women aged 18 or over, and the government arranged to have a polling station set up for every 1,000 registered voters. The poll was contested by Bảo Đại, who had spent much of his time in France and advocated a monarchy, and Diệm, who ran on a republican platform. According to historian Jessica Chapman, it was a choice between \"the country's obsolete emperor and its far-from-popular prime minister, Ngo Dinh Diem\". In announcing the referendum, Diệm portrayed his decision as being motivated by a love of democracy and popular discontent with the rule of Bảo Đại. The prime minister cited a plethora of petitions from various social, religious, and political groups calling on him to stage a plebiscite to remove Bảo Đại, claiming he was motivated by these \"legitimate and democratic\" sentiments. Lansdale cautioned Diệm against electoral fraud, confident that Diệm would win a free election: \"While I'm away I don't want to suddenly read that you have won by 99.99%. I would know that it's rigged then.\" U.S. officials thought that a fair election would have seen Diệm poll between 60% and 70% of the vote.\n\nUnder the Elysee Accords and the subsequent legislation that created the State of Vietnam in 1949, Bảo Đại's position as head of state was neither permanent nor indefinite. Sovereignty was presumed to rest solely upon the people, with Bảo Đại being a mere conduit. As a result, the referendum itself was within the law. Diệm had not been elected to his post, so he saw the referendum as an opportunity to rebuff opponents, who claimed that he was undemocratic and autocratic. The event also gave Diệm an opportunity to boost his prestige by defeating Bảo Đại in a head-to-head contest. It was previously agreed that a National Assembly would be elected first, but Diệm went ahead with the plebiscite, which meant that he would have total power if he deposed Bảo Đại before a legislature was formed.\n\nU.S. diplomats were concerned that the move would be seen as a power grab, as Diệm was organising and driving an electoral process in which he was a candidate. The Americans felt that a legislature should be formed first and that the body should oversee the referendum, but Diệm ignored their advice. Ambassador G. Frederick Reinhardt informed Washington that Diệm had no intention of allowing a level playing field for the opposition, and that the foreign press had already made much of Diệm's democratic pronouncements being a facade. The Department of State agreed and opted to avoid trumpeting the referendum as an exercise in democracy for fear of attracting negative reactions to their foreign policy. Nevertheless, U.S. officials in Vietnam were pleased with the referendum, as they saw it as an opportunity to strengthen South Vietnam and avoid defeat to the communists, as they saw a republican model as being more robust.\n\nHaving declared his disdain for the 1956 reunification elections, Diệm saw the referendum as the first step in creating a long-term state to rule over South Vietnam. He repeatedly said that the creation of a legislature and a constitution for his new state would follow the referendum.\n\nDiệm reportedly saw the poll as an opportunity to legitimise him as a symbol of Vietnamese democracy, so that he could frame and justify his refusal to participate in national elections as a struggle between freedom and communist authoritarianism. Diệm asserted that South Vietnam would eventually reunify the nation under a democratic administration and liberate their northern compatriots from communist oppression, and championed the referendum as a first step in nurturing democracy. His support base was to use this as a means of justifying the deposal of Bảo Đại, citing past decisions that according to them, were pro-communist.\n\nOne of Diệm's main themes was that the referendum would usher in a new era of unprecedented democracy: \"This shall be but the first step made by our people in the free use of our political rights.\" The day before the poll, Diệm said: \"This 23 October, for the first time in our country's history, our men and women will exercise one of many basic civil rights of a democracy, the right to vote.\" A government proclamation four days before the poll said: \"Dear compatriots, proclaim your will forcefully! Go forward firmly in the path of Freedom, Independence and Democracy!\"\n\nDiệm ran a personal attack campaign against the head of state, for whom campaigning was prohibited. The army and national police went about enforcing the ban on pro-Bảo Đại and anti-Diệm activities. Police went from door to door, explaining the consequences of failing to vote. They organized conferences in rural villages and addressed the populace with loudspeakers. In general, Diệm's line of attack was to portray Bảo Đại as a drunken womanizer who was preoccupied with immoral pleasures and unconcerned with the problems of the populace. Vietnam's monarchic tradition was built on Confucianism and the emperor's Mandate of Heaven, and Diệm's campaign claimed Bảo Đại had lost this mandate through his debauched lifestyle. According to Joseph Buttinger, who was based in Vietnam as the second in command at the International Rescue Committee, the methods used to influence the poll were \"outrageous\". Donald Lancaster, a journalist who covered the poll, said \"Whereas Bao Dai was given no opportunity to defend himself, the government-controlled press proceeded to overwhelm him with scurrilous abuse.\" Diệm later banned Bảo Đại from entering the State of Vietnam.\n\nDiệm's advertising included the parading of giant pageant-style floats of Bảo Đại through the streets of Saigon, depicted with bags of money on his shoulders, a deck of cards in his hands, and with naked blonde women and bottles of cognac in his arms. This was a reference to the head of state's reputation for opulence, gambling and womanising. In particular, the blonde hair referred to Bảo Đại's purported penchant for European mistresses with whom he liaised on the French Riviera. Bảo Đại's dummy was accompanied by that of a Frenchman putting gold into his pockets, thereby questioning his nationalist credentials. Posters and effigies associating Bảo Đại with a pig's head were disseminated, while a prominent newspaper composed and encouraged the people to sing insulting songs about Bảo Đại.\n\nWalls and public transport vehicles were plastered with slogans, including \"Beware of the evil king Bảo Đại's preference for gambling, women, wine, milk, and butter. Those who vote for him betray their country.\" Aside from referring to his opulent lifestyle, other slogans such as \"Bao Dai, puppet king selling his country\", and \"Bao Dai, master keeper of gambling dens and brothels\", referred to his alleged softness towards the communists. The radio was used to verbally abuse Bảo Đại, who was accused of treason and corruption in these broadcasts.\n\nOn the other hand, the bachelor Diệm was described as the \"hero of the people\" and \"father of all children\". The slogans exhorted the populace to vote for the prime minister because \"To vote for the revolutionary man Ngo Dinh Diem is to build a society of welfare and justice\". They portrayed Diệm as a patriotic and nationalist anti-communist, proclaiming \"To kill communists, depose the king, [and] struggle against colonialists is a citizen's duty in Free Vietnam.\"\n\nDiệm's government-controlled press overwhelmed Bảo Đại with endless personal propaganda attacks, with special editions of newspapers being devoted to polemical biographical accounts of the former emperor. This allowed Diệm's campaign to condemn Bảo Đại with much more salacious detail than was possible through mere slogans. This started in August when the daily newspaper \"Thoi Dai\" started a three-week series that disseminated unsubstantiated and scandalous details about Bảo Đại's life. These were written by editorialist Hong Van, who called Bảo Đại a \"dung beetle who sold his country for personal glory\". Van claimed Bảo Đại was the illegitimate son of Emperor Khải Định, alleging Khải Định had been infertile and married a maid, before claiming the maid's son, by another man, as his own. The paper claimed Bảo Đại was \"big like a lubber, had many children, and was very fond of women\" while Khải Định was uncomfortable with females, hinting that the different personalities were inconsistent with a common biological lineage.\n\nCapitalising on anti-French sentiment, the paper went on to discuss Bảo Đại's upbringing in France, claiming that he was already womanising as a teenager because of his European upbringing. Bảo Đại later married an ethnic Vietnamese French citizen, who became Empress Nam Phương, who had been raised Catholic. The editorials accused her of being a French agent and claimed she had treated the queen mother badly, a serious character flaw as Confucianism strongly emphasized respect for elders. Hong Van went on to claim that Bảo Đại's sequence of Gallic lovers was an indication that colonial officials were successfully using sex to turn the head of state into a puppet of France.\n\nThe culmination of the newspaper campaign was a satirical pornographic cartoon, entitled \"The Story of Bảo Đại\". It summarized the scandalous depictions of the head of state made by \"Thoi Dai\" in the preceding weeks and was published on 19 October, four days before the referendum. The pictures featured full frontal nude depictions of Bảo Đại and his mistresses, with genitalia clearly visible, including a frame showing a naked blonde performing an erotic dance for the head of state.\n\nAside from painting Bảo Đại as a sexually insatiable glutton, Diệm's campaign also attacked the head of state's nationalist credentials. They criticised him as being too soft in his dealings with French colonial authorities, and for serving as the head of state of the Empire of Vietnam, a puppet regime set up by Imperial Japan after they invaded during World War II. They also accused him of ceding half the country to the communists. The communists had already captured more than half the country on the battlefield, and Diệm claimed he had no choice, but Diệm's campaign portrayed him as incompetent and unwilling to take the blame.\n\nDiệm used the Ministry of Information's electoral education campaign as a partisan political tool. Instead of using it purely to explain the democratic process, the campaign was used to extol Diệm and his allies. After explaining what democracy was, a pamphlet outlined why \"Deposing a chief-of-state is a vital act.\" After elaborating on the powers of the head of state, the pamphlet went on to champion Diệm as an anti-communist who could defend people's freedom, while explaining why Bảo Đại was unfit to lead, saying that he did not have respect among the international community.\n\nOn 15 October, Bảo Đại issued a statement protesting against the referendum. He urged the governments of France, the United Kingdom, the United States, India and even the Soviet Union not to recognise Diệm, asserting that he was an obstacle to the reunification of Vietnam under the Geneva Accords. He accused Diệm's poll of being \"a governmental activity which conforms neither to the profound sentiment of the Vietnamese people nor to the common cause of peace\".\n\nOn 18 October, he made the token gesture of formally dismissing Diệm. The following day, he denounced \"the police methods\" of Diệm's \"dictatorship\" and warned the Vietnamese populace \"against a regime that was bound to lead them to ruin, famine, and war\". Bảo Đại accused Diệm of trying to foment conflict between the French and the Americans. On the eve of the poll, Bảo Đại stated \"I can even tell you that I know the percentage of favourable votes that Mr. Diem has decided to obtain.\"\n\nThe staging of the election was subsidised by foreign funding. The United States government and a combination of American Roman Catholic charities contributed US$2 million each. Ba Cụt, a leader of an anti-government Hòa Hảo religious sect, distributed a pamphlet condemning Diệm as an American puppet, citing the funding as proof and further asserting that Diệm was going to \"Catholicize\" the country. The Vietnamese Socialist Party, which was affiliated to the Hòa Hảo, claimed Diệm had \"bribed the world of laborers and young students to petition in support of Diem's rise to chief-of-state and to petition in favor of deposing Bao Dai\", using the American election funding. Another Hòa Hảo rebel leader, General Trần Văn Soái, assailed Diệm's undemocratic regime and declared the referendum illegal. He invited \"friendly countries and the people of Vietnam to distrust this political maneuver\". Diệm had earlier told a cabinet minister that there was only one political party – Nhu's outfit, and went about eradicating opposition by force. Opponents claimed Diệm's declarations about the value of democracy were hollow.\n\nLansdale advised Diệm to print his ballots in red, while those of Bảo Đại were printed in green. In Vietnam, red is associated with good luck and prosperity, whereas green is often associated with a cuckold and bad luck. Diệm's red ballots pictured him with youthful and modern-looking people, while Bảo Đại's photo was placed in old-fashioned robes, which he never wore. In addition, Bảo Đại's portrait showed him to appear dazed and bloated, while Diệm and those surrounding him were smiling and appeared to be energetic. The ballot claimed that a vote for Diệm would be a vote for democracy, stating \"I depose Bảo Đại and recognise Ngô Đình Diệm as Head of State, charged with the commission of setting up a democratic regime.\" Bảo Đại's ballot read \"I do not depose Bảo Đại and do not regard Ngô Đình Diệm as the Head of State charged with the commission of setting up a democratic regime.\" The voters would place the red or green ballot into the box, according to their preference, while discarding the other, which meant the voting was actually not secret.\nThe logistics of the referendum were organised and supervised by Diệm's brother and confidant, Nhu, who was the leader of the family's secret Cần Lao party, which supplied the Ngôs' electoral base. Reports of violence and intimidation were widespread. During the referendum, Nhu's staff told voters to throw away the green ballots. Those who disobeyed were often chased down and beaten, with pepper sauce and water sometimes being forced into their nostrils. The violations were particularly flagrant in central Vietnam, a region over which another of Diệm's younger brothers, Ngô Đình Cẩn, ruled. Cẩn was based in the former imperial capital city of Huế, home of the Nguyễn Dynasty and a source of support for Bảo Đại. He stifled this support by ordering the police to arrest 1,200 people for political reasons in the week leading up to the vote. In the city of Hội An, several people were killed in election violence on the day of the poll. Voting started at 07:00 and ended at 17:00.\n\nDiệm's government formulated procedural regulations ostensibly designed to ensure results and ballots were correctly accounted for and to prevent election fraud. In reality however, the votes were counted without independent supervision, which resulted in Diệm being credited with 98.2% of the vote. The prime minister tallied 605,025 votes in Saigon, although only 450,000 voters were registered in the capital. Diệm's tally exceeded the registration numbers in other districts. French newspapers claimed that only half of the registered voters in Saigon had actually voted, and that the rest had boycotted the election, implying that more than 60% of the votes in the capital were not authentic. Defenders of Diệm claim this was due to recently arrived, mostly Catholic, refugees from North Vietnam who voted without being enrolled, rather than large-scale ballot stuffing.\n\nDiệm's regime had announced that 5,335,668 people were eligible to vote, but when the results were declared, there were 5,784,752 ballots. Diệm's government claimed his candidacy had been endorsed by the mother of Bảo Đại, although Diệm had ordered the military to confiscate her family's property and evict her from the land. The near unanimous voter turnout and support for Diệm was replicated in highland and Mekong Delta swamp areas, which were not even under the control of the government and its Vietnamese National Army. In some districts of the Mekong Delta, overwhelming tallies for Diệm in excess of 90% of the registered voters were recorded, even though the Hòa Hảo warlord Ba Cụt and his army had prevented voting.\n\nThe referendum was widely condemned for being fraudulent. Historian and writer Jessica Chapman said \"Even Diệm apologists like Anthony Trawick Bouscaren and American CIA officer Edward Lansdale concur with the prime minister's harshest critics on the conclusion that the South Vietnamese government was either incapable of or unwilling to hold a truly free, representative plebiscite\". A CIA report written in 1966 adjudged the poll to be the most heavily manipulated in the first 11 years of South Vietnam's history. The U.S. government privately concluded that the monopoly Diệm had on the media and the election campaign was a greater factor in the victory than intimidation and the fact that the voting was effectively public. Reinhardt cabled Washington, saying that the \"referendum proved [a] resounding success for [the] Diem government\". He indicated that the poll results were not necessarily a reflection of reality by adding that the result did not show that Diệm had majority support but that he was able to control the country, effectively unchallenged. The U.S. government was heartened by Diệm's apparent ability to negate communist and other opposition.\n\nThe scholar Bernard B. Fall stated that \"there is not the slightest doubt that this plebiscite was only a shade more fraudulent than most electoral tests under a dictatorship\". The American journalist Stanley Karnow cited the dubious plebiscite as evidence of Diệm's \"mandarin mentality\". Chapman wrote that \"... no amount of unilateral campaigning, anti-Bảo Đại sentiment, or Confucian political restraint could explain Diệm's 98 percent margin of victory in a politically heterogeneous South Vietnam. Corruption and intimidation must have played a significant role.\" Buttinger said that while the monarchy was \"another rotten relic of Vietnam's past\" and Bảo Đại \"its last, unworthy representative\", fraud and intimidation were unnecessary as Diệm would have won easily in any event. Historian David Anderson said the victory \"was not a true representation of Diệm's power or popularity. The emperor's weakness, the disarray of the political opposition, and other such factors explain his triumph\".\n\nThree days after the vote, Diệm proclaimed the creation of the Republic of Vietnam, naming himself as its president. He said \"The October 23rd plebiscite in which [the people of South Vietnam] took such an enthusiastic part, constitutes an approval of the policies pursued thus far and at the same time augurs a whole new era for the future of our country.\" Diệm reiterated that he would not partake in national reunification elections, saying that they would be futile unless \"true liberty\" came about in the communist North Vietnam, which impressed American observers, who feared a total communist takeover.\n\nHaving claimed the election was entirely without irregularities, the United States government hailed Diệm as a new hero of the \"free world\". Senator Mike Mansfield (D-MT) claimed the referendum \"was a reflection of their [the Vietnamese people's] search for a leader who would respond to their needs ... they sensed that Diệm could provide that kind of leadership.\" Mansfield had been a professor of Asian history before entering politics; as a result his opinions about Vietnam were more influential and held in high regard by his fellow senators. Archives of policy discussions show that the Americans were concerned more about the negative image created by Diem's autocratic and antidemocratic style among the international community, rather than its possible effects on national cohesion. The US State Department spokesman said \"the people of Viet-Nam have spoken, and we, of course, recognise their decision\". An official congratulatory statement from the department said \"The Department of State is gratified that according to reports the referendum was conducted in such an orderly and efficient manner and that the people of Viet-Nam have made their choice unmistakably clear ... we look forward to a continuation of the friendly relations between the Government of Viet-Nam and the United States.\"\n\nReaction to Diệm's victory among the American press varied with geographic location. Newspapers in the Midwest hailed Diệm's win as a triumph for democracy and extolled the new president as a champion of democracy. However, \"The New York Times\" said that the extreme margin of victory made \"Diem's administrative control look more pervasive than is thought to be the case by a number of observers here.\" However, the paper also obligingly claimed the poll a \"sound democratic procedure\" and a \"public tribute to a strong-willed leader\". \"Reader's Digest\" called it an \"overwhelming endorsement\" and dubbed Diệm a \"beacon of light, showing the way to free people\".\n\nDiệm's victory was seen as a blow to French stature in Vietnam, as the former colonial power had helped to set up Bảo Đại's State of Vietnam in 1949. They consistently opposed Diệm and his policies, and unsuccessfully tried to impede him. The U.S. media regarded Diệm's victory as a signal that the United States would be the only Western power in South Vietnam. Some felt that this would enable Diệm to rule effectively without French hindrance, while others felt that this would leave too much of a burden on the American government. The French media and diplomatic corps viewed the result as a humiliation. Before the poll, French officials had privately predicted Diệm would dissolve the French High Command and use any victory as justification for scrapping the national reunification elections. The French media viewed the poll as undemocratic and a plot by the Americans to sabotage any prospect of national reunification, but France recognised the Republic of Vietnam soon after.\n\nDiệm severed economic relations with France on 9 December 1955, and withdrew from the French Union shortly afterwards. Neither the Soviet Union nor communist China overtly objected to Diệm's actions in creating a new state in the southern half of Vietnam. Nevertheless, by the time of Diệm's deposal and assassination in 1963, France bought 46.3% of South Vietnam's exports and accounted for most of the foreign investment in the country. French cultural influences and the language remained prevalent.\n\nIn January 1956, with no legislature and constitution in place, Diệm used his absolute power to dissolve the Revolutionary Council by launching police raids on the members, forcing those from the Cao Đài and Hòa Hảo who had rallied to his side to go on the run. As a result, they turned against him.\n\n"}
{"id": "3478650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3478650", "title": "Tangkhul Naga", "text": "Tangkhul Naga\n\nThe Tangkhuls are a major Naga ethnic group living in the Indo-Burma border area occupying the Ukhrul district in Manipur, India and the Somra tract hills, Layshi township, Homalin township in Upper Burma and Tamu Township in Burma. Despite this international border, many Tangkhul have continued to regard themselves as \"one nation\".Tangkhuls living in Burma are also known as Hogo Naga or Eastern Tangkhul or Somra Tangkhul. Also Kokak Naga, Akyaung Ari Naga and Hogo Naga are included tribally within Tangkhul Naga tribe but their language are quite distinct. The Tangkhul (Somra/Hogo) language in Mayanmar is very different from Tangkhul (Ukhrul) spoken in India.\n\nThe Tangkhuls, as with other tribes on the hills, came to Manipur, Nagaland, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh from Myanmar entering their present habitats in successive waves of immigration. The Tangkhuls came together with the Angamis, Chakhesangs, Maos, Poumais, Marams and Thangals because all of them have references to their dispersal from Makhel, a Mao village in Senapati district. They had also erected megaliths at Makhel in memory of their having dispersed from there to various directions. \n\nThe Tangkhuls point to the association of their forefathers with the seashore. Most of the ornaments of the Tangkhuls such as kongsang, huishon, etc. were made of sea shells, cowrie and conch shells a prominent feature of the people who live on the shore.\n\nBy the 2nd century A.D. the Tangkhuls were living in Samshok (Thuangdut) in Myanmar. Ptolemy, a Greek astronomer and geographer of Alexandria, in his \"Geography of Further India\", c. 140 A.D., referred to the Tangkhul at Triglypton (Thuangdut). The Tangkhuls began disperse from Samshok after the invasion of Ko-lo-feng and his successor I-mau-shun the king of Nan-chao in the closing part of the 8th century A.D. and beginning of the 9th century A.D. They were further driven towards the north-west of Myanmar by the Shan people.\n\nThus, the Tangkhuls as also other tribes who travelled from Myanmar and from there finally they came into their present land traversing through innumerable snow-covered landscapes, mountains and wild forests confronting wild beasts and wild tribes may be grouped collectively as Naga on the basis of ethnicity. The exodus of the Tangkhuls from China to Myanmar and finally to India is indeed a story of heroism of human courage and endurance in the face of great famine in China during those days.\n\nIn course of time every Tangkhul village became a small republic like the Greek city states. Every village had an unwritten constitution made up of age-old conventions and traditions. The Tangkhul villages were self-sufficient except for salt, and self-governing units ruled by hereditary or elected chief assisted by a Council of Elders. The chief was a judge, administrator and commander roled into one.\n\nHunphun was the headquarters of the Tangkhul Long (Tangkhul Assembly). The Tangkhul annual fair locally known as \"Leih Khangapha\" used to be held at Somsai in Ukhrul.\n\nThe boundary of Manipur and Burma (Myanmar) was laid down by an agreement signed between the British authorities (East India Company) and Burma on 9 January 1834 on the river bank of Nighthee (Chindwin). The Article No.4 (iii) of this agreement relates to the Tangkhul country. “Fourth (iii) - On the north, the line of boundary will begin at the foot of the same hills at the northern extremity of the Kabo Valley and pass due north up to the first range of hills, east of that upon which stand the villages of Chortor (Choithar), Noongbee (Nungbi), Nonghar (Lunghar), of the tribe called by the Munepooriis (Manipuris) Loohooppa (Tangkhul), and by the Burmahs Lagwensoung, now tributary of Manipoor.”\nAs a result of this boundary demarcation without the knowledge let alone consent of the Tangkhuls, many Tangkhul villages situated in the Somrah hills, Layshi township, Tamu township and Homalin township are included under Burma. Later, when India and Burma attained national independence, the Tangkhuls found themselves belonging to two different countries.\n\nThe Tangkhul tribe has more than hundreds of regional dialects. Each village has its own dialect including Khangoi, Khunggoi, Kupome, Phadang, Roudei and Ukhrul. Tangkhul is the principle dialect. Although the Tangkhul Naga tribe speaks more than a hundred dialects, the lingua franca is the Hunphun dialect.\nAlso Hogo Naga or Eastern tangkhul or Somra Tangkhul in Burma Speaks Somra dialect.\n\nA slightly modified English alphabet is used. Tangkhul Language is included in the CBSE syllabus and is the first Tribal language from North East India to be included in the CBSE syllabus.\n\nBecause of the diversity in dialects and lack of a standardized language, it is difficult to gauge the literacy level. However, if the knowledge of Tangkhul is taken as an indicator, most young Tangkhuls are losing their grasp of the language, often preferring to use the English language to describe more complex ideas. There are some important factors that contribute to the standardization of English language as the primary medium of learning and communication. Firstly, there are various concrete and abstracts objects and ideas which cannot be termed in Tangkhul language, simply because unlike the English language it does not have a rich vocabulary. Secondly, the emergence of western education, which rapidly change and uplift the live and standard of Tangkhuls led the people to neglect learning the language and hence became a secondary subject. Thirdly, the idea of globalization captures the attention of the people to neglect their own language and culture.\n\nEnglish is taught in primary schools, and the number of people able to read the Roman script is high. Almost all young people can read and write the Roman script; older people are less proficient. The literacy rate is 79%. There are English and bi-lingual publications, such as the magazine \"The Legacy\" and the English newspaper \"The Aja Daily\". Aja is edited by Mrs Valley Rose Hungyo, the only lady editor of the state. A new bi-lingual daily newspaper \"The Shirui Lily Times\" was started in Ukhrul district headquarters from August 16, 2010. Owned and published by Shimreingam A.Shatsang, \"The Shirui Lily Times\" is jointly edited by the publisher himself and another dynamic editor Ngakuini A Shatsang. With this new edition-Ukhrul now has two local dailies published in Tangkhul.\n\nAccording to the latest research there are approximately 380 Tangkhul villages. \nThe villages in the west include Aheng, Champhung, Changta, Hoome, Lamlang, Leisan, Maichon, Ngainga, Phalee, Ringui, Roudei(TM kasom), Seikhor, Shokvao, Sinakeithei, Sirarakhong, Somdal, Taloi, Tanrui, Teinem, Theiva, Tora, Zingshong etc \nAnd villages in the north include Halang, Chingai, Chingjaroi, Kalhang, Khamasom, Kharasom, Kuirei, Longpi, Lunghar, Marem, Phungcham, Paorei, Peh, Sihai, Tusom, Varangai, Razai, etc. \nAnd villages in the middle frontier are Choithar(Ruithar), Hatha, Hungpung, Hunphun, Khangkhui, Langdang, Lungshang, Nungshong, Pharung, Phungcham, Ramva, Shangshak, Shangzing, Shirui, Tashar.\nVillages in the east includes Alang, Apong, Bungpa, Chahong, Chamu, Chatric, Chungka, Grihang, Godah, Hangao, Kachouphung, Kanpat, Khambi, Khayang, Khunthak, Koso, Kumram, Langkhe, Langli, Leishi, Loushing, Maileng, Maku, Mapum, Ningchao, Ningthi, Nongman, Khonglo, Nungou, Patbung, Pheishat, Phungtha, Phange, Pushing, Ramphoi, Ramsophung, Roni, Ronshak, Sampui, Shakok, Shingcha, Siyang, Skipe, Sorathen, Sorde, Sorpung, Yedah, Zingsui etc. \nVillages in the south include Bohoram, Chadong, Island, Irong kongleiram, Joyland (Muirei), Kankoi, keihao, Kaprang, Kashung, Kasom, Laikoiching, Lairam, Lamlai, Leingaching, Leiyaram, Lishamlok, Lambakhul, Litan, Lungpha, Lungtoram, Manthouram, Mapao, Maryland, Mawai, Nambashi, New Canaan, Ngarumphung, Nongdam, Nungthar, Poirou, Riha, Saman, Sailent, Sharkaphung, Marou, Shingta, Shingkap, Tamaram, Tangkhul Hungdung, Itham, Thoyee, Wunghon, Zingshao,Yeasom, Irong, etc.\n\nThe culture of Tangkhul revolves around traditional beliefs and custom exercises being passed down, and ancient tools and materials, like spears, swords, shields, bows, axes and spades. Culturally, the Tangkhuls share close affinities with the Meiteis of the Imphal Valley. \n\nThe Tangkhuls are fond of singing, dancing and festivities. For every season, there is a festival that lasts almost a week. Luira phanit, the seed sowing festival is the major festival. The Tangkhuls artistic creativity is manifested in their handicrafts and wood carvings. \n\nThe Tangkhuls are an egalitarian society. There is no caste or classes in the society. Every person is equal in the society and the society follows patriarchal system.\n\nThe life and art of the Tangkhul are attractive and captivating. Their different clothing, utensils, architecture, monumental erections and memorial set-ups depict their dexterity in art, which also speak of their sense of beauty and finesse. Though there are common articles of unisex clothing, there are also some articles of clothing exclusively meant for men or women.\nSome of the traditional clothing Clothes/Shawls Man's Women's\n1. Haora (man's mostly) 1. Malao 1.Phangyai\n2. Chongkhom (women's mostly) 2. Laokha 2. Kahang Kashan\n3. Tangkang (for man and woman) 3. Kahang Malao 3. Seichang Kashan\n4. Luirim (man’s mostly) 4. Thangkang 4. Thangkang Kashan\n5. Raivat Kachon (common) 5. Khuilang Kashan \n6. Khuilang Kachon (woman’s mostly) 6. Kongrah Kashan \n7. Phingui Kchon (common) 7. Shanphaila \n8. Phaphir (common) 8. Kuiying Muka (upper cover) \n9. Phorei Kachon (man’s mostly) 9. Zingtai Kashan \n10. Luingamla Kashan.\n\nTangkhuls are music lovers and their songs are soft and melodious. Apart from encoding into the music the varied seasonal and cultural ideas and philosophies, music is a medium wherein historical events are also related in the lyrics. In as much as religious fervor is incorporated and composed in the songs, the romantic nature of the people also finds its expressions in the music. There are various varieties of songs, some are mood special, some are festival/seasonal specials. These folk songs and folklores can be taught and sung by anybody, anytime, but there are also some specific musical expressive melodies of every region or area. People are restricted from singing certain songs outside of particular seasons or occasions. Some festivals have ceased since the introduction of Christianity to the region.\nThese folk songs and folklores can be played or accompanied by musical instruments. Some of the musical instruments are tingteila (violin), tala (trumpet), pung (drum), mazo (woman's mouth-piece), sipa (flute), and kaha ngashingkhon (bamboo pipe).\n\nCorresponding to the rhythmic composition of the songs, the dances of the Tangkhuls are also rhythmic and these are eventful and vigorous. There are also some special occasional dances, like the Kathi Mahon, a dance for the dead; Laa Khanganui, a virgin dance during Luira Festival; and Rai Pheichak, a war dance. Rewben Mashangva, a member of the Tangkhul community, is instrumental in popularising the music of the community to the world. The majority of the youth know how to play the guitar and other musical instruments. However, Western culture has been blamed for the declining popularity of some ancestral songs.\n\nChristianity is the major religion of the Tangkhul Nagas. Tangkhuls were the first community in Manipur to become Christians. Christianity was first brought to the Tangkhul people by Rev. William Pettigrew in 1896. The first christian church of Manipur, Phungyo Baptist Church was set up among the Tangkhuls in Ukhrul. The story goes that the chief of Hunphun, Raihao, had stories about his great grandfather dreaming that a white missionary would come to Ukhrul. Because of this, when Rev. Pettigrew showed up, Raihao allowed him to live among them and work as a missionary. When the chief was converted, the whole tribe converted as well, and Christianity has remained a prominent religion among Tangkhul Nagas to this day.\nAlso Tangkhuls(Hogo/Somra) in Burma follow the religion of Animism, Buddhism and Christianity.\n\n\n\n\n\nhttps://tangkhulonline.com/\n"}
{"id": "39661445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39661445", "title": "Women in Australia", "text": "Women in Australia\n\nWomen in Australia refers to women's demographic and cultural presence in Australia. Historically, a masculine bias has dominated Australian culture.\n\nEarly colonial administrations were anxious to address the gender imbalance in the population brought about by the importation of large numbers of convict men. Between 1788 and 1792, around 3546 male to 766 female convicts were landed at Sydney. Women came to play an important role in education and welfare during colonial times. Governor Macquarie's wife, Elizabeth Macquarie took an interest in convict women's welfare. Her contemporary Elizabeth Macarthur was noted for her 'feminine strength' in assisting the establishment of the Australian merino wool industry during her husband John Macarthur's enforced absence from the colony following the Rum Rebellion.\n\nThe Catholic Sisters of Charity arrived in 1838 and set about providing pastoral care in a women's prison, visiting hospitals and schools and establishing employment for convict women. They established hospitals in four of the eastern states, beginning with St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney in 1857 as a free hospital for all people, but especially for the poor. Caroline Chisholm (1808–1877) established a migrant women's shelter and worked for women's welfare in the colonies in the 1840s. Her humanitarian efforts later won her fame in England and great influence in achieving support for families in the colony. Sydney's first Catholic bishop, John Bede Polding founded an Australian order of nuns—the Sisters of the Good Samaritan—in 1857 to work in education and social work. The Sisters of St Joseph were founded in South Australia by Saint Mary MacKillop and Fr Julian Tenison Woods in 1867. MacKillop travelled throughout Australasia and established schools, convents and charitable institutions. She was canonised by Benedict XVI in 2010, becoming the first Australian to be so honoured by the Catholic Church.\n\nAustralia had led the world in bringing women's suffrage rights during the late 19th century. Propertied women in the colony of South Australia were granted the vote in local elections (but not parliamentary elections) in 1861. Henrietta Dugdale formed the first Australian women's suffrage society in Melbourne in 1884. Women became eligible to vote for the Parliament of South Australia in 1895. This was the first legislation in the world permitting women also to stand for election to political office and, in 1897, Catherine Helen Spence became the first female political candidate for political office, unsuccessfully standing for election as a delegate to the Federal Convention on Australian Federation. Western Australia granted voting rights to qualified non-aboriginal women in 1899.\n\nWomen energetically participated in the war effort, with few signs of defeatism or resistance to government policies. In 1922, the Country Women's Association was formed with the intention to improve the lives of women in rural Australia. It has since expanded to become the largest women's organisation in the country.\n\nIn 1974, the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration granted women the full adult wage. However, resistance to women being employed in certain industries remained until well into the 1970s. Because of obstruction from elements of the Unions movement, it would take until 1975 for women to be admitted as drivers on Melbourne's trams, and Sir Reginald Ansett refused to allow women to train as pilots as late as 1979. In 1984, the Sex Discrimination Act became enforced, making sex-based discrimination and sexual harassment illegal.\n\nUntil the 1960s, the Australian national character was typically masculine. Only in more recent decades has attention been paid to the role and marginal status of women and minority groups. One of the earliest studies on the role of women in Australian culture was conducted by Miriam Dixson in her 1975 study, The Real Matilda. Dixson concluded that there was deep contempt for women in the Australian ethos and that the only role for women was within the family.\n\nMarilyn Lake argues that the first stage of women's history in the 1970s demonstrated an angry tone, with a revolutionary critique that reflected its close connections with the women's liberation movement. By the late 20th century, women's history was less strident and more thoroughly integrated into social history and labour history. In the 21st century, the emphasis has turned to a broader horizon of \"gender relations\", which includes such concepts as femininity and masculinity.\n\nAbortion in Australia is governed by state law rather than on federal law. While legal in every state to protect the health and life of the woman, grounds for which abortions are permitted differ between states and territories.\n\nAbortion was illegal under all circumstances until the 1969 case R v Davidson (also known as the Menhennitt ruling). In this case, Justice Clifford Menhennitt ruled abortion could be considered legal if the physical and/or mental health or the life of the woman was endangered. The ruling was adopted in principle in New South Wales and Queensland in 1971 and 1984 respectively. As of 2018, abortion is legal in all Australian states and territories except for New South Wales and Queensland where it is considered a criminal offence for doctors and women unless the woman's physical and/or mental health is endangered. It is estimated that a quarter to a third of Australian women will have an abortion in their lifetime, and it has strong popular support.\n\nAccording to a 2017 study, abortions in Australia have an average cost of $560 after receiving the Medicare rebate, with some women also incurring extra costs from travel, accommodation, GP referrals, lost wages, childcare and medical tests. 34% of women surveyed reported they found payment for abortions difficult or very difficult. The maternal mortality rate in Australia is 5.5 deaths/100,000 live births as of 2015.\n\nAustralia, as of 2014, had a total fertility rate (TFR) of 1.8 babies born/woman, reflecting a sub-replacement fertility rate; the replacement rate is 2.1 children born/woman. This TFR has a recorded low of 1.74 in 2001, and a record high of 3.55 in 1961. The TFA has been below the replacement level since 1976.\n\nDespite being given the right to stand for federal election in 1902, women were not present for the first 20 years of Australian politics until the 1921 election of Edith Cowan to the West Australian Legislative Assembly, and were not represented federally until the 1943 federal election when Dorothy Tangney and Enid Lyons were elected to the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively. Lyons would go on to become the first woman to hold a Cabinet position in Robert Menzies' 1949 ministry. Women would not go on to lead a state or territory until Rosemary Follett was elected Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory in 1989. Australia's first female Prime Minister, Julia Gillard was appointed in 2010. \n\nSince the 1970s, women have received increasing representation in the parliament. Despite examples such as in 2010 females holding every position above them in Sydney, (Clover Moore as Lord Mayor, Kristina Keneally as Premier of New South Wales, Marie Bashir as Governor of New South Wales, Julia Gillard as Prime Minister, Quentin Bryce as Governor-General of Australia and Elizabeth II as Queen of Australia) they still remain a minority in parliament, and as of 2016 only number 32%, an increase of 1% from the previous election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23242173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23242173", "title": "Yoruba culture", "text": "Yoruba culture\n\nYoruba culture refers to the cultural norms of Yorubaland and the Yoruba people.\n\nThe Yoruba are said to be prolific sculptors, famous for their terra cotta works throughout the 12th and 14th century; artists also earnests their capacity in making artwork out of bronze.\n\nEsiẹ Museum is a museum in Esiẹ, Irepodun. The museum was the first to be established in Nigeria when it opened in 1945. The museum once housed over one thousand tombstone figures or images representing human beings. It is reputed to have the largest collection of soapstone images in the world. In modern times the Esie museum has been the center of religious activities and hosts a festival in the month of April every year.\n\nWeaving is done on different types of looms in order to create hundreds of different patterns.\n\nSome common foods native to the Yoruba include moin-moin (steamed bean pudding) and akara (bean cake). Native Yoruba soups include ewedu, gbegiri, and efo riro (a type of vegetable soup). Such soups as okra (locally known as \"ila asepo\") and egusi have become very popular in Western Nigeria in recent times and, in addition to amala, a traditional Yoruba fufu made of yam flour, these can be eaten with numerous Nigerian fufu meals, including pounded yam (locally referred to as \"iyan\"), 'lafun' a Nigeria fufu made from cassava, semolina, and garri (eba).\n\nSome dishes are prepared specially for festivities and ceremonies. Jollof rice and fried rice are very common in Nigeria. Other popular dishes include ekuru and aro, stews, corn, cassava, and flours (e.g., maize, yam and plantain Flours), eggs, chicken, and assorted meat and fish). Some less well known meals and many miscellaneous staples are arrowroot gruel, sweetmeats, fritters and coconut concoctions; and some breads - yeast bread, rock buns, and palm wine bread to name a few. Yoruba cuisine is quite vast.\n\nThe Yoruba people believe that people live out the meanings of their names. As such, Yoruba people put considerable effort into naming a baby. Their philosophy of naming is conveyed in a common adage, \"ile ni a n wo, ki a to so omo l'oruko\" (\"one pays attention to the family before naming a child\"): one must consider the tradition and history of a child's relatives when choosing a name.\n\nSome families have long-standing traditions for naming their children. Such customs are often derived from their profession or religion. For example, a family of hunters could name their baby \"Ogunbunmi\" (Ogun gives me this) to show their respect to the divinity who gives them metal tools for hunting. Meanwhile, a family that venerates Ifá may name their child \"Falola\" (Ifa has honor).\n\nSince it is generally believed that names are like spirits which would like to live out their meanings, parents do a thorough search before giving names to their babies. Naming ceremonies are performed with the same meticulous care, generally by the oldest family member. Symbolic of the hopes, expectations and prayers of the parents for the new baby, honey, kola, bitter kola, atare (alligator pepper), water, palm oil, sugar, sugar cane, salt, and liquor each have a place and a special meaning in the world-view of the Yoruba. For instance, honey represents sweetness, and the prayer of the parents is that their baby's life will be as sweet as honey.\n\nAfter the ritual, the child is named and members of the extended family have the honour of also giving a name to the child. The gift of a name comes with gifts of money and clothing. In many cases, the relative will subsequently call the child by the name they give to him or her, so a new baby may thereafter have more than a dozen names.\n\nSome\nYoruba believe that a baby may come with pre-destined names. For instance, twins (\"ibeji\") are believed to have natural-birth names. Thus the first to be born of the two is called \"Taiwo\" or \"Taiye\", shortened forms of Taiyewo, meaning the taster of the world. This is to identify the first twin as the one sent by the other one to first go and taste the world. If he/she stays there, it follows that it is not bad, and that would send a signal to the other one to start coming. Hence the second to arrive is named \"Kehinde\" (late arrival; it is now common for many Kehindes to be called by the familiar diminutive \"Kenny\".Irrespective of the sex the child born to the same woman after the twins is called Idowu, and the one after this is called \"Alaba\", then the next child is called \"Idogbe\". \"Ige\" is a child born with the legs coming out first instead of the head; and \"Ojo\" (male) or \"Aina\" (female) is the one born with the umbilical cord around his or her neck. When a child is conceived with no prior menstruation, he or she is named Ilori. \"Dada\" is the child born with locked hair; and \"Ajayi\" (nicknamed \"Ogidi Olu\") is the one born face-downwards.\n\nOther natural names include \"Abiodun\" (one born on a festival day or period),\"Abiona\"(one born on a journey) \"Abidemi\" or \"Bidemi\" (one born without the presence of its father) i.e the child's father didn't witness his baby's naming ceremony but not dead, maybe he just traveled, \"Enitan\" (one of a story) this child might have had any of its parent dead before its birth, \"Bosede\" (one born on a holy day); \"Babatunde\"/\"Babatunji\" (meaning father has come back) is the son born to a family where a father has recently passed. This testifies to the belief in reincarnation. \"Iyabode\", \"Yeside\", \"Yewande\", and \"Yetunde\", (\"mother has come back\") are female counterparts, names with the same meaning.\n\nThese are names that are not natural with the child at birth but are given on either the seventh day of birth (for females) and ninth day of birth (for males). Some Yoruba groups practice ifalomo(6th) holding the naming rites on the sixth day. The influence of Islam in Yoruba culture was responsible for the eighth-day naming ceremony. Twin-births when they are male and female are usually named on the eighth day but on the seventh or ninth day if they are same-sex twins. They are given in accordance with significant events at time of birth or with reference to the family tradition as has been mentioned above.\n\nExamples of names given with reference to the family tradition include \"Ogundiran\" (Ogun has become a living tradition in the family); \"Ayanlowo\" (Ayan drumming tradition is honorable); \"Oyetoso\" (Chieftaincy is ornament); \"Olanrewaju\" (Honor is advancing forward); \"Olusegun\" (God has conquered the enemy).\"ajewole\" (wealth as being the family)\n\nThe Yoruba believe that some children are born to die. This derives from the phenomenon of the tragic incidents of high rate of infant mortality sometimes afflicting the same family for a long time. When this occurs, the family devises all kinds of method to forestall a recurrence, including giving special names at a new birth. Such names reflect the frustration of the poor parents:\n\n\nThe Yoruba also have pet names or oriki. These are praise names, and they are used to suggest what the child's family background is or to express one's hope for the child: \"Akanbi\"- (one who is deliberately born); \"Ayinde\" (one who is praised on arrival); \"Akande\" (one who comes or arrives in full determination); \"Atanda\" (one who is deliberately created after thorough search). For females, \"Aduke\" (one who everyone likes to take care of), Ayoke (one who people are happy to care for), \"Arike\" (one who is cared for on sight), \"Atinuke\" or \"Abike\" (one that is born to be pampered),\"Anike\" which come from a longer name meaning we have a crown and it is as delicate as an egg.\n\nYoruba law is the legal system of Yorubaland. It is quite intricate, each group and subgroup having a system that varies, but in general, government begins within the immediate family. The next level is the clan, or extended family, with its own head known as a Baálé. This chief will be subject to town chiefs, and these chiefs are usually themselves subject to their Oba, who may or may not be subject to another Oba himself.\n\nMost of what survived of this legal code has been assimilated into the customary laws of the sovereign nations that the Yoruba inhabit.\n\nYoruba written literature begins with the formation of its grammar published in 1843. The standard language incorporates several features from other dialects.\n\nThe child that is named will grow to adulthood. The Yoruba culture provides for the upbringing of the child by the extended family. In traditional society, the child is placed with a master of whatever craft the gods specify for him or her. Or he may take to the profession of the father, in the case of a boy, or the mother, in the case of a girl. The parents have the responsibility for his/her socialization into the norms of the larger society, in addition to giving him a means of livelihood. His or her wedding is also the responsibility of the parents.\n\nThe wedding ceremony is the climax of a process that starts with courtship. The young man identifies a young woman that he loves. He and his friends seek her out through various means. The young man sends messages of interest to the young woman until such a time that they are close enough to avoid a go-between (alarina). Then once they both express mutual love, they let their parents know about their feelings for each other. The man's parents arrange to pay a visit to the prospective bride's parents. Once their consent is secured, the wedding day may be set. Prior to the wedding day, the payment of bride price is arranged. This secures the final consent of the bride's parents, and the wedding day is fixed. Once the day has been fixed through either consultation of the Orishas by a babalawo (in the case of followers of the Yoruba religion) or the decision of a man of God (in the case of the Christians or Muslims), the bride and bridegroom are warned to avoid travelling out of town, including to the farm. This is to prevent any mishap. The wedding day is a day of celebration, eating, drinking and dancing for parents, relations, the new husband and wife and their friends and, often, even foes. Marriage is not considered to be only a union of the husband and wife, it is also seen among the Yoruba as the union of the families on both sides.\nBut before the bride goes to her husbands house, she is escorted by different people i.e. family and friends to the door step of her new home in a ritual called Ekun Iyawo \n\nWhile this is the only marital ceremony that is practiced by the more traditional members of the tribe, Christian and Muslim members generally blend it with a church wedding and registry wedding (in the case of Christians) or a nikkah and registry wedding (in the case of Muslims). In their communities, the Yoruba ceremony described above is commonly seen as more of an engagement party than a proper wedding rite.\n\nMusic and dance have always been an important part of their culture; used in the many different forms of entertainment.\n\nIn Yoruba belief, death is not the end of life; rather, it is a transition from one form of existence to another. The ogberis (ignorant folks) fear death because it marks the end of an existence that is known and the beginning of one that is unknown. Immortality is the dream of many, as \"Eji-ogbe\" puts it: \"Mo dogbogbo orose; Ng ko ku mo; Mo digba oke; Mo duro Gbonin\". (I have become an aged ose tree; I will no longer die; I have become two hundred hills rolled into one; I am immovable.) Reference to hills is found in the saying \"Gboningbonin ni t'oke, oke Gboningbonin\".\n\nThe Yoruba also pray for many blessings, but the most important three are wealth, children and immortality: ire owo; ire omo; ire aiku pari iwa. There is a belief in an afterlife that is a continuation of this life, only in a different setting, and the abode of the dead is usually placed at a place just outside this abode, and is sometimes thought of as separated by a stream. Participation in this afterlife is conditional on the nature of one's life and the nature of one's death. This is the meaning of life: to deliver the message of Olodumare, the Supreme Creator by promoting the good of existence. For it is the wish of the Deity that human beings should promote the good as much as is possible. Hence it is insisted that one has a good capacity for moral uprightness and personhood. Personhood is an achieved state judged by the standard of goodness to self, to the community and to the ancestors. As people say: \"Keni huwa gbedegbede; keni lee ku pelepele; K'omo eni lee n'owo gbogboro L'eni sin\". (Let one conduct one's life gently; that one may die a good death; that one's children may stretch their hands over one's body in burial.)\n\nThe achievement of a good death is an occasion for celebration of the life of the deceased. This falls into several categories. First, children and grand children would celebrate the life of their parent who passed and left a good name for them. Second, the Yoruba are realistic and pragmatic about their attitude to death. They know that one may die at a young age. The important thing is a good life and a good name. As the saying goes: \"Ki a ku l'omode, ki a fi esin se irele eni; o san ju ki a dagba ki a ma ni adie irana\". (if we die young, and a horse is killed in celebration of one's life; it is better than dying old without people killing even a chicken in celebration.)\n\nIt is also believed that ancestors have enormous power to watch over their descendants. Therefore, people make an effort to remember their ancestors on a regular basis. This is ancestor veneration, which some have wrongly labelled ancestor worship. It is believed that the love that exists between a parent and a child here on earth should continue even after death. And since the parent has only ascended to another plane of existence, it should be possible for the link to remain strong.\n\nYoruba culture consists of the folk/cultural philosophy, the autochthonous religion and folktales. They are embodied in Ifa-Ife Divination, known as the tripartite Book of Enlightenment or the Body of Knowledge in Yorubaland and in Diaspora. Other components of the Book of Knowledge or the Book of Enlightenment are psychology, sociology, mathematics, cosmogony, cosmology, and other areas of human interests.\nYoruba cultural thought is a witness of two epochs. The first epoch is an epoch-making history in mythology and cosmology. This is also an epoch-making history in the oral culture during which time divinity-philosopher Orunmila was the head and a pre-eminent diviner. He pondered the visible and invisible worlds, reminiscing about cosmogony, cosmology, and the mythological creatures in the visible and invisible worlds. Divinity-philosopher Orunmila epitomizes wisdom and idealism. But he is more of a psychologist than a philosopher. He is the cultivator of ambitions and desires, and the interpreter of ori (head) and its destiny. The non-literate world, compelled by the need to survive, impelled by the need to unravel the mysteries of the days and nights made divinity-philosopher Orunmila to cultivate the idea of Divination.\n\nThe second epoch is the epoch of metaphysical discourse. This commenced in the 19th century when the land became a literate land through the diligence and pragmatism of Dr. Bishop Ajayi Crowther, the first African Anglican Bishop.He is regarded as the cultivator of modern Yoruba idealism.\n\nThe uniqueness of Yoruba thought is that it is mainly narrative in form, explicating and pointing to the knowledge of the causes and nature of things, affecting the corporeal and the spiritual universe and its wellness. Yoruba people have hundreds of aphorisms, folktales, and lore, and they believe that any lore that widens people's horizons and presents food for thought is the beginning of a philosophy.\n\nAs it were in the ancient times, Yoruba people always attach philosophical and religious connotations to whatever they produced or created. Hence some of them are referred to as artist-philosophers. This is an accretion to the fact that one can find a sculptor, a weaver, a carver or a potter in every household in Yoruba land.\n\nDespite the fact that the Yoruba cannot detail all their long pedigrees, such as divinity-philosopher Oduduwa, divinity-philosopher Obatala, divinity-philosopher Orunmila, divinity-philosopher Sango, divinity-philosopher Ogun, divinity-philosopher Oshun, divinity-philosopher Olokun, divinity-philosopher Oya, divinity-philosopher Esu, divinity-philosopher Oshosi, divinity-philosopher Yemoja, divinity-philosopher Sopona, etc., nonetheless it is a fact of truth that they had all impacted the Yoruba people and contributed to the wellness and well-being of the Yoruba society.Without their various contributions, Yoruba land could have been lost in a hay of confusion.\n\nAlthough religion is often first in Yoruba culture, nonetheless, it is the thought of man that actually leads spiritual consciousness (ori) to the creation and the practice of religion. Thus thought/philosophy is antecedent to religion.\n\nToday, the academic and the nonacademic communities are becoming more and more interested in Yoruba culture, its Book of Enlightenment. Thus more and more researches are being carried out on Yoruba cultural thought, as more and more books are being written on it—embossing its mark and advancing its research amongst non-African thinkers such as the political philosophers and political scientists who are beginning to open their doors to other cultures, widening their views.\n\nIdealism in Yoruba-land and for the Yoruba people is equated with the ideal purpose of life, the search for the meaning of life and the yearning for the best in life. Divinity-philosopher Orunmila, the cultivator of Ifa-Ife Divination, is the father of ancient Yoruba Idealism. His (divine) idealism has inspired the entire Yoruba people in Africa and in Diaspora, especially those who were stolen (to the Americas and the West Indies) during the inhuman slave trade. \n\nBased on the definition of the Yoruba Idealism, which is the search for the meaning of life and the yearning for the best in life, Yoruba Idealism is a kind of Enlightenment Movement in its own right, as every scion in the land endeavors to reach the height or the acme of his idealistic ambition. \n\nDivinity-philosopher Orunmila's idealism ushered in modern idealism that inspired pragmatic Dr. Ajayi Crowther in the 19th century, and Chief Obafemi Awolowo in the 20th century who succeeded in creating a moral atmosphere for the Yoruba land to thrive, impacting a moral majority to which idealism belongs and from which realism emerges. His leadership philosophy helped him with big ideas. He built the first Radio and TV Houses in Africa. He cultivated the big ideas that led to the building of the first modern stadium in Africa and the first Cocoa House in the world. Generally speaking, Yoruba people are idealists by nature.\n\nThe Yoruba are said to be religious people, but they are also pragmatic and tolerant about their religious differences. Whilst many profess the Yoruba school of thought; many more profess other faiths e.g. Christianity, Islam etc.\n\nYoruba people traditionally speak the Yorùbá language, a member of the Niger–Congo language family. Apart from referring to the aggregate of dialects and their speakers, the term Yoruba is used for the standard, written form of the language.\n\nOgunyemi, D. Yemi (Yemi D. Prince) Yoruba Idealism (A Handbook of Yoruba Idealism), Diaspora Press of America, 2017, \n\n"}
