{"id": "42972815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42972815", "title": "Aichivirus A", "text": "Aichivirus A\n\nThe Aichivirus A formerly Aichi virus (AiV) is a small, round, cytopathic positive sense and ssRNA virus. Originally identified after a 1989 outbreak of acute gastroenteritis in the Aichi Prefecture, probably linked to raw oyster, genetic analysis has classified it as belonging to the family Picornaviridae, genus Kobuvirus.\n\nIt has since been isolated in studies of Finnish children, Pakistani children, and Japanese travelers.\n"}
{"id": "9592099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9592099", "title": "Amy B. Jordan (media investigator)", "text": "Amy B. Jordan (media investigator)\n\nAmy B. Jordan (born November 23, 1961) is Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies at the Annenberg School for Communication of the University of Pennsylvania. Her research and teaching focuses on the role of media in the lives of children and their families and the potential for communication messages to address health risk behaviors.\n\nAmy Jordan received her M.A. (1986) and PhD. (1990) from the Annenberg School for Communication, and graduated summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Muhlenberg College in 1983 with a B.A. in Communication Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "20640028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20640028", "title": "Antonio Longoria", "text": "Antonio Longoria\n\nAntonio Longoria (August 14, 1890 - December 31, 1970) was a scientist who claimed to have invented a death ray in the 1930s.\n\nHe was born in Madrid, Spain on August 14, 1890. He received his degree in engineering and a Ph.D. in medicine. In 1911 he emigrated to the United States. He moved to Cleveland, Ohio where he married and had three children. He became the president of the Sterling Electrical Company. He became a naturalized US citizen on December 29, 1919. He claimed in 1936 that patents for his process for welding ferrous and nonferrous metals by his \"invisible ray\" were sold for $6,000,000. He died on, New Year's Eve, December 31, 1970 in Winter Park, Florida.\n"}
{"id": "42110566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42110566", "title": "Arts-based environmental education", "text": "Arts-based environmental education\n\nArts-based environmental education (AEE) brings art education and environmental education together in one undertaking. The approach has two essential characteristics. The first is that it refers to a specific kind of environmental education that starts off from an artistic approach. Different from other types of outdoor or environmental education which offer room for aesthetic experiences, AEE turns the tables in a fundamental way. Art is not an added quality, the icing on the cake; it is rather the point of departure in the effort to find ways in which people can connect to their environment. A second fundamental characteristic is that AEE is one of the first contemporary approaches of bringing together artistic practice and environmental education in which practitioners also made an attempt to formulate an epistemology.\n\nThe term \"arts-based environmental education\" (AEE) was first coined by Finnish art educator Meri-Helga Mantere in the 1990s. Mantere describes AEE as a form of learning that aims to develop environmental understanding and responsibility “by becoming more receptive to sense perceptions and observations and by using artistic methods to express personal environmental experiences and thoughts”. Artistic experiences improve one's ability to see; they help one in knowing and understanding. Therefore, she maintains that these can be of high value in learning about the environment. Mantere's description of her method of art-based environmental education can be taken as a first attempt at a definition:\n\n\"What do I do as an environmentalist and as an art teacher? To put it rather simply: I try to support fresh perception, the nearby, personal enjoyment and pleasure of perceiving the world from the heart. To achieve that, it is necessary to stop, be quiet, have time and feel psychologically secure in order to perceive the unknown, the sometimes wild and unexpected. At times conscious training of the senses, decoding the stereotype, is needed. I aim at an openness to sensitivity, new and personal ways to articulate and share one’s environmental experiences which might be beautiful, disgusting, peaceful or threatening. I support and facilitate the conversation with the environment.\"\n\nIn short, Mantere's conception of AEE is grounded on the belief that sensitivity to the environment can be developed by artistic activities. As an artist, and as a teacher and therapist, she came to find it more and more important to go back to the basics of the process and skill of perception. Here, the question of how we perceive and how we receive or reject the messages of the environment is central. Important to underline - because it counters possible allegations of embracing a too Romantic view of nature – is that there is also room for the “shadow” side of experience, for feelings of disgust, fear and agony.\n\nThe historical antecedents of arts-based environmental education as it was developed in Finland go back to 1971, the year that the first European regional InSEA congress was held in that country. Finnish art educators had pooled their efforts to arrange this meeting\nwith the overarching theme “Environmental Protection in Art Education.” Pirkko Pohjakallio is a specialist on multidisciplinary approaches to environmental education in the context of Finnish art education since the 1970s. Quoting Kauppinen (1972), she provides the rationale for the congress at the time: “One reason for making the theme was the wish to emphasize the manifoldness and diversity of our environmental problems – [they] are not purely biological, economic and social ones but also aesthetic ones, and are consequently part of art education, not only as separate subjects of study but also as integrated parts of other subjects dealing with our living environment” (Kauppinen, cited in Pohjakallio, 2007). Already at that time, as Meri-Helga Mantere, notes, attention was paid to aesthetic and critical observation of the environment, both in the education of art teachers and in the curricula of Finnish schools. In the first decade, the focus of the kind of environmental education, practiced in Finland as part of art education, was on the man-made environment. Subjects were environmental pollution and the exploitation of nature. Problems of the environment were visually approached in teaching by identifying, classifying and listing the types and degrees of damages. As Mantere summarizes, “the emphasis was not so much on the environment as it was on politics”.).\n\nSimilarly, also Pirkko Pohjakallio notes that in the early 1970s, the prevailing interest in art teacher education and in visual arts first was in cultural studies and in linguistic and conceptual directions. The emphasis was on interpretations of expressions\nof visual communication and on investigating if these revealed ideology and relations of power. It was a progressive move away from integrating art with crafts in the curriculum. Environmental education, at the time, concentrated on problems, and this was reflected in the images that were created in art classes, representing “dying nature, spoilt built environments, factories that polluted, and chaotic traffic jams”. In these times of social activism, practicing and becoming art teachers read the ecological and political pamphlets of the time. However, when they tried to address the themes and questions during art lessons, these proved so wide and difficult, that neither pupils nor teacher could envisage any solutions, leading to feelings of despair rather than empowerment. Ultimately this led to a dead end: “the use of conscious, threatening environmental scenarios and political topicalities as intellectual fuel proved to be a questionable idea”.\n\nThe 1980s saw a change in Finland. From first being a subject that was limited to environmentally conscious groups and individuals interested in nature conservation, the earth's ecological state started to capture the interest of the general public. Art teaching gravitated to assisting learners in acquiring skills in reading and evaluating the language of the man-made environment. Parallel to that, in teacher education, issues stemming from environmental psychology and environmental aesthetics were discussed. Towards the end of the decade, new trends emerged. Art educators began to develop activities that were strongly influenced by down-to-earth phenomena in\nenvironmental art and the new ecological awareness. A key figure in this development of a new approach to environmental education in the 1980s, as Pirkko Pohjakallio notes, was Meri-Helga Mantere. To the latter, an artistically oriented environmental education would be at its best when the artistic and creative perspective would run through the teaching project, from the stage of its planning to the evaluation of its results. Effectively, what this implied was that in the entire environmental education process the emphasis would be on the manner of observing, experiencing and thinking that is customary to art. Whereas before, art students, on basis of the prevailing orientation at the time of linguistic methods and critical theory, typically used collage of media images rather than personal and intimate contact with the actual environment, this now all began to change. To be sure, students were taken outdoors before by art educators as well, taking their pencils, drawing pads and brushes along. Here's the contrast, in Mantere's own words: \"Now the purpose is to search for a more direct connection with the materiality as well as spirituality of nature. Sand, water, or any other environmental material became tools for reflection and expression. Also allusions to the mythical meanings of nature could be a starting point in the art exercises given to students.\"\n\nWhen in the 1980s new expressionist painting, earth and environmental art emerged in society, these “were greeted as a breath of fresh air by art educators after the threatening images of the 1970s that had failed to empower those who had created them.”. Art students participated in courses on environmental pedagogy and camp schools were organized in “unspoilt” environments such as the Finnish archipelago and Lapland. Pohjakallio lists the following sources of inspiration for the new activities: deep ecology, gestalt therapy, experimental learning theories, and environmental aesthetics. Mantere notes that the ability and experience of Finnish art teachers to work in environmental education through artistic means began to draw the interest of environmental educators in general. What was attractive to them was this insight: “Attitudes and values do not seem to change through teaching that emphasizes scientific facts”. By consequence, she adds, emotional, aesthetic and practical methods became more and more appreciated. What came into focus was the pupil's own relationship with nature and the environment, which implied a holistic and hermeneutic approach to environmental issues. Pohjakallio adds that in the newly emerging arts-based environmental education, the life-world approach came to stand central. Through that emphasis on the idea that the environment is, first of all, \"inhabited\" by persons and not something remote or detached, aspects were taken up that had been mostly neglected in art education's earlier bearings in formalist and semiotic approaches. Characteristically, the inhabitant's relationship with the environment was participatory rather than solely informed by focused attention. It involved a two-way influence and identification:\n\n\"In this approach, the environment is as much a drama and narrative as a set of critical insights and political views. In life-world, environmental aesthetics, all the senses contribute to understanding, so that the environment is as much felt as understood. It is partly a tacit affair – but not, as a consequence, beyond theorizing.\"\n\nWe thus see that the 1980s were in many respects a turning point. It saw the genesis of, what Mantere termed, the new environmental education (through art). A movement had emerged in art education, in which, according to Mantere, the freedom and courage to have confidence in “art as art” was central. Concomitantly, the word “process” became nothing less than essential, and the artistic process came to be seen not only as a psychically integrative, individual experience but also as a (if not the most)legitimate basis for the teaching of art. The ideas of Jung and art therapy in general influenced and inspired many Finnish art teachers. As Mantere puts it, “one could hardly talk about the soul in public, [but] one could at least talk about some kind of spirituality”. Typical of the time was that many teachers began to discuss their own situation as artists.\n\nAn important parallel development was the emergence in Finland of special art schools for children. In contrast to the compulsory comprehensive schools, these provided a new opportunity to develop artistically demanding and at cases long-term projects.\n\nIn 1992, a little more than twenty years after the landmark 1971 InSEA conference in Helsinki, the Earth Summit took place in Rio de Janeiro, the big UN Conference on Environment and Development. Again, an InSEA conference was held in Finland. At this occasion, Mantere articulated the specific Finnish approach to an international readership more fully in her seminal article “Ecology, Environmental Education and Art Teaching” (which appeared in the InSEA publication \"Power of Images\", 1992). She wrote that, in her view, ecological thinking and action should be regarded as a guiding principle of all education. Furthermore, art education could play an important\nrole in the development of new forms of environmental education. To her, a genuine appreciation of nature and motivation to act for the good of the environment are based above all on positive and valued experiences and these are often of an aesthetic nature. Such experiences, she went on to say, can be generated by open and immediate contact with the phenomena of nature and the often new and fresh view of these phenomena that art provides. To her, to perceive “better” is the necessary starting point to creative change\nin personal and collective decision making and lifestyles.\n\nMantere presents several arguments to support her claim that art education can play an important role in the new environmental education. All of these rely, as she puts it in her article in \"Power of Images\", on “the artistic apprehension” of life and the environment, and on the opportunities that lend themselves to artistic influence. To begin with, she emphasizes that appreciating one's experiences, emotional expressions and subjective processing of things is at the core of art education. For that reason, aesthetic practice could be an extremely valuable contribution to experiential learning in environmental education (which she held as the latter's most fruitful and functional principle). In artmaking, participants learn by doing. Everything begins with personal experience. Simultaneously, art teaching encourages participants to discover, unearth and also to lend weight to their own mental images. These two combined, mean that art education can offer a mode in which learners can engage with their experiences and observations of the environment through artistic activity. This can be done by working with mental images, tangible pictorial expressions, etc., and by bringing to bear matured levels of reflection and conceptualization. As such, artistic activity actually constitutes cognitive action and learning in its own right.\n\nSecondly, Mantere also underscores the need to create positive visions and concepts for the future. Sustainable development is not only about conservation but also about creating the new: better environments, objects and lifestyles. It is in the design of these that art education can play a vital role. Moreover, it is of great value if pupils become active themselves on behalf of the environment, in short, that a change of attitude is brought about. Finally, Mantere calls attention in her article to the critical insight that when an ecological lifestyle is primarily seen in terms of restriction and austerity, then it is more likely that change will only be accepted as a last resort. Through art, “it is also possible to develop the mythical, metaphorical and deep-level psychological levels of man’s relationship with nature into a constructive resource, in which factual information achieves deeper meanings”. For Mantere, art is often therapeutic, but this aspect is seldom mentioned.\n\nIn his article “From Environmental Art to Environmental Education,” Timo Jokela, professor in art education at the University of Lapland, claims that the visual arts can offer elements to environmental education that are lacking in other fields. To him, “artistic-aesthetic learning” involves observation, experience and increasing awareness. Art sharpens our schemes of observation and activity, and thus facilitates bringing the phenomena to our consciousness. Art continuously creates new ways of observing. Even more so, visual art can be understood as actually being a history of evolving and varying schemes of observation. Previous learning experiences dominate the way in which we subsequently observe and describe our environment, says Jokela. He underpins this claim by quoting Arnold Berleant, as follows: “environments are not physical places but perceptual ones that we collaborate in making, and it is perceptually that we determine their identity and extent”.\n\nFor Jokela, the “environmental world” and the “art world” share an educational task. Environmental art, for him, is first and foremost art that is defined by the place it is made; it is created, as it were, by the environment. Its historical antecedents go back\nto the 1960s (e.g. the practices of “earth art” and “land art”). The Finnish art educator goes on to list four types of exercises that illustrate how environmental art can be a method of environmental education. On the one hand, these exercises are faithful to the practice of environmental art and as such they are a basic part of art education. On the other hand, they are also methods for increasing one's sensitivity towards the environment. In the latter sense, they are essentially environmental education. These are the categories that Jokela provides:\n\n• Exercises on focusing your observations and perceiving them more sensitively;\n\n• Exercises which bring forward the processes happening in nature, and help one in perceiving them more sensitively: growth and decay, the flow of water, the turning of day and night, the changes of light, the wind, etc.;\n\n• Exercises which aim to alter set ways of viewing the environment;\n\n• Exercises which test the scale of the environment and human “limits.” The starting point is a large amount of material and the aim is a clear change in the environment.\n\nA binding factor in Jokela's categories is the implicit driving force: they are exercises that work towards achieving or accomplishing a pre-established goal; they “aim at.” Mantere makes an illuminating distinction between (a) seeing art as a tool of environmental education, (b) seeing art itself as a form of environmental education and (c) seeing environmental education as a form of art. Each alternative, she says, is possible and tones the content and activity in a different way.\n\nA composite approach such as arts-based environmental education inevitably always seems to fall between two stools: it is neither environmental education proper (because it starts off from an arts- rather than science-based perspective), nor can it convincingly be classified as a subfield of art education, as it moves away from artmaking as primarily a self-referential discipline (“l’art pour l’art”). In fact, one could say that two rather separate communities of art educators and environmental educators exist, often not understanding (or more often not aware of) each other's discourse, hence bringing along the problem of incommensurability of the paradigms from which they each approach education.\n\nIn an interview that Jan van Boeckel held with Mantere in 2007, he invited her to expand further on her conceptualization of the combining of art education and environmental education, and the way she considered that participants learn about the environment through art:\n\n\"One learns by observing the connection between outer and inner. One learns by using the senses. One gets sensitive when one learns that all the senses are (or can be) involved. When they are involved or enlivened or opened, you also get more original feelings or observations. The observations that one makes of art, of nature, of other people and one’s self, the environment or whatever, can be led by knowledge, learning theories, and so on, and that is one way to observe. In such cases one already has some kind of frame or concepts. But in this case the learning comes from being open to, and learning through, one’s senses. At those moments there are no ready-made words, concepts and structures. The artistic learning, or the artistic approach, goes to the basics of senses and feelings, to the fresh contact and presence. An artistic approach includes the sensitivity of one’s body movement and senses. Via sight or touch you study the environment, but if you hurry to name it you lose the newness. You get a touch, you get a smell, you get movement, you hear your environment. And when this happens without naming and ready-made concepts and repetitions, you always get a new experience. It is possible to get fresh, nonverbal information all the time. So the senses and observations can be creative and they kind of bring up your own images, words and conceptualizations.\"\n\nHere, Mantere touches upon two contrasting forces within AEE: the more passive not-knowing while being open to one's senses, and the more active learning that takes place when integrating the new information. One has to shift, as it were, from one state of mind to the other.\n\nOne way to understand an AEE activity is to see it as a facilitated effort in which participants are encouraged to open their senses and to connect to and learn from their environment. The pedagogical point of departure in this is artistic practice rather than science-based learning. This orientation, however, should not be seen as being in opposition to other approaches of learning and acquiring knowledge. Instead, artmaking is conceived of as a (as of yet highly undervalued) way of learning and understanding in itself, complementary to other modes.\n\nAs we saw, Mantere herself emphasizes in her texts the value of experiential subjective learning processes, which she contrasts with science-based experimental knowledge. At the same time, she underlines that an art educator needs to know the scientific ecological basics like cycles of water and energy and materials used; he or she needs to be aware of the ecological threats of today: “I think that to plan an AEE workshop or lesson not knowing or caring about the ecological aspects is not environmental education at all and thus not AEE as I understand it”. Moreover, in her view, art educators ought to be able to explain in what ways the arts and aesthetics may contribute to enhancing the aims of EE as a whole, in cases where they work together with science teachers.\n\nNevertheless, she also holds that AEE methods, in the effort to support perceiving the world from the heart, can only achieve such fresh perception through a stop. For it is at that point that learners begin to be receptive and “to perceive the unknown, the\ndelicate, the sometimes wild and unexpected”. When, through conscious training in the senses, the predominant cultural and personal stereotypes are decoded, not only the participant's perception becomes very different, but also his or her articulation of these in words and picture. When the subjective is both supported and facilitated by the art teacher, “more and more unconventional conversations with the environment follow”. From her background in art, Mantere has tried to meet the challenges posed by the environmental imperatives of today. She did this by using strategies and methods that are derived from experience and knowledge of art and art education and even the world of art therapy. She mentions that important sources of inspiration were some of the Finnish traditions connected with the forest and the international field of environmental art. Further, philosopher Arne Naess and psychologist James Hillman were important mentors to her. Art touches the heart and it is the speech of soul, she quotes the latter saying.\n\nIn this overview of the way in which a specific form of arts-based environmental education developed in Finland the following core traits to be distinguished. First, one has to distinguish between the first phase of AEE in the 1970s which focused on visual imagery of the ecological crisis, and its second phase, when this perspective was complemented – if not to some extent replaced – by a more sensorially-grounded approach in which personal direct experiences of both the natural and built environment became characteristic. It is to this second phase of AEE, which emerged in the 1980s, that my attention is mostly focused, the idea that a relationship with nature can be built through the senses: the art teacher puts his or her trust in experiential learning and the teaching can move out of the classroom. The pupils are encouraged to open their senses by artistic practices, which can be almost anything from drawing and building out of natural materials to making conceptual art. Through these practices it is hoped that the pupils recognize and study their own relationship with the surrounding environment. In this, the artistic result is less important. The goal for art education is to emotionally involve pupils and to develop their ability to see the traces we leave in the landscape.\n\nPart of this is to see the environment through art, and art through the environment. People would be educated by that environmental art or sculpture and it is a good approach to do art-base environmental education. A forest, for example, can provide the materials for making art – interpreted by traditional techniques or through conceptual art. Part of the focus is to train the students’ artistic view, so that they see and express aesthetic qualities and values in both the built and natural environment. Distinctive to the Finnish approach is an inclination to keep the process open-ended and not to work necessarily towards reaching a preconceived and –defined goal, and the other is that practitioners of the teaching of AEE tend to see the importance of (and actively engage in) the unpacking of the epistemological foundations of their work. In her foreword to the book \"Image of the Earth, Writing on Art-based Environmental Education\", Mantere speaks of a “we,” that is a group of Finnish artists and art teachers at the university level. Though she grants that the book is not a comprehensive account of AEE, the opening lines do have an authoritative and programmatic ring to them:\n\n\"We believe that it is possible to develop environmental understanding and responsibility by becoming more receptive to sense perceptions and observations, and by using artistic methods to express personal environmental experiences and thoughts. Artistic experiences and activities improve one’s ability to see; they help one in knowing and understanding. The issues of values and lifestyle, raised by the ecological crisis, can be approached by artistic methods, reaching otherwise unattainable areas of experience.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28757853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28757853", "title": "Auctorum", "text": "Auctorum\n\nAuctorum (Latin for \"of authors\", abbreviated auct. or auctt.), in botany and zoology indicates that a name is used in the sense of subsequent authors. Some species names have been used twice for different species so the author of the name needs to be identified. For example \"\"Leucospermum bolusii\" auct. Gandoger\" for the species that was named as such by Gandoger. It is often used in conjunction with nec or non to indicate a misapplied name, e.g. \"\"Leucospermum bolusii\" auct. non Gandoger\" would mean the species not named by Gandoger. \n\nIt may be qualified to indicate the number of authors, e.g. auctorum multorum (abbreviated auct. mult.), Latin for \"of many authors\", indicates that many subsequent authors used a name in a different sense to the original author.\n\n\"Leucospermum bolusii\" is a name that was used twice for different species. The first time was by Michel Gandoger in 1901. Since this name was validly published, used for a species that did not already have a name and the name had not already been used for another species, it is the correct name. The list of synonyms of \"Leucospermum cordifolium\" includes \"Leucospermum bolusii\" described by Edwin Percy Phillips in 1910. This name however was already taken. So, \"Leucospermum bolusii\" is a later homonym of \"Leucospermum bolusii\" . If the name \"Leucospermum bolusii\" is used in a later publication, the botanical author needs to make clear which one is meant, and which one isn’t. Hence, the species of 1901 would be \"Leucospermum bolusii\" auct. Gandoger, while the synonym of \"Leucospermum cordifolium\", is \"Leucospermum bolusii\" .\n\nThe \"Flora Europaea\" gives one of the synonyms of \"Cistus clusii\" as \"\"C. libanotis\" auct. mult., non L.\", meaning that many authors misapplied the name \"Cistus libanotis\" to the species \"Cistus clusii\" thereby using this name differently from the original author, Carl Linnaeus.\n\n"}
{"id": "5558617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5558617", "title": "BLOSUM", "text": "BLOSUM\n\nIn bioinformatics, the BLOSUM (BLOcks SUbstitution Matrix) matrix is a substitution matrix used for sequence alignment of proteins. BLOSUM matrices are used to score alignments between evolutionarily divergent protein sequences. They are based on local alignments. BLOSUM matrices were first introduced in a paper by Steven Henikoff and Jorja Henikoff. They scanned the BLOCKS database for very conserved regions of protein families (that do not have gaps in the sequence alignment) and then counted the relative frequencies of amino acids and their substitution probabilities. Then, they calculated a log-odds score for each of the 210 possible substitution pairs of the 20 standard amino acids. All BLOSUM matrices are based on observed alignments; they are not extrapolated from comparisons of closely related proteins like the PAM Matrices.\n\nThe genetic instructions of every replicating cell in a living organism are contained within its DNA. Throughout the cell's lifetime, this information is transcribed and replicated by cellular mechanisms to produce proteins or to provide instructions for daughter cells during cell division, and the possibility exists that the DNA may be altered during these processes. This is known as a mutation. At the molecular level, there are regulatory systems that correct most — but not all — of these changes to the DNA before it is replicated.\n\nThe functionality of a protein is highly dependent on its structure. Changing a single amino acid in a protein may reduce its ability to carry out this function, or the mutation may even change the function that the protein carries out. Changes like these may severely impact a crucial function in a cell, potentially causing the cell — and in extreme cases, the organism — to die. Conversely, the change may allow the cell to continue functioning albeit differently, and the mutation can be passed on to the organism's offspring. If this change does not result in any significant physical disadvantage to the offspring, the possibility exists that this mutation will persist within the population. The possibility also exists that the change in function becomes advantageous.\n\nThe 20 amino acids translated by the genetic code vary greatly by the physical and chemical properties of their side chains. However, these amino acids can be categorised into groups with similar physicochemical properties. Substituting an amino acid with another from the same category is more likely to have a smaller impact on the structure and function of a protein than replacement with an amino acid from a different category.\n\nSequence alignment is a fundamental research method for modern biology. The most common sequence alignment for protein is to look for similarity between different sequences in order to infer function or establish evolutionary relationships. This helps researchers better understand the origin and function of genes through the nature of homology and conservation. Substitution matrices are utilized in algorithms to calculate the similarity of different sequences of proteins; however, the utility of Dayhoff Matrix has decreased over time due to the requirement of sequences with a similarity more than 85%. In order to fill in this gap, Henikoff and Henikoff introduced BLOSUM (BLOcks SUbstitution Matrix) matrix which led to marked improvements in alignments and in searches using queries from each of the groups of related proteins.\n\nBLOSUM: Blocks Substitution Matrix, a substitution matrix used for sequence alignment of proteins.\n\nScoring metrics (statistical versus biological): When evaluating a sequence alignment, one would like to know how meaningful it is. This requires a scoring matrix, or a table of values that describes the probability of a biologically meaningful amino-acid or nucleotide residue-pair occurring in an alignment. Scores for each position are obtained frequencies of substitutions in blocks of local alignments of protein sequences.\n\nSeveral sets of BLOSUM matrices exist using different alignment databases, named with numbers. BLOSUM matrices with high numbers are designed for comparing closely related sequences, while those with low numbers are designed for comparing distant related sequences. For example, BLOSUM80 is used for less divergent alignments, and BLOSUM45 is used for more divergent alignments. The matrices were created by merging (clustering) all sequences that were more similar than a given percentage into one single sequence and then comparing those sequences (that were all more divergent than the given percentage value) only; thus reducing the contribution of closely related sequences. The percentage used was appended to the name, giving BLOSUM80 for example where sequences that were more than 80% identical were clustered.\n\nBLOSUM r: the matrix built from blocks with less than r% of similarity\n– E.g., BLOSUM62 is the matrix built using sequences with less than 62% similarity (sequences with ≥ 62% identity were clustered)\n– Note: BLOSUM 62 is the default matrix for protein BLAST. Experimentation has shown that the BLOSUM-62 matrix is among the best for detecting most weak protein similarities.\n\nBLOSUM matrices are obtained by using blocks of similar amino acid sequences as data, then applying statistical methods to the data to obtain the similarity scores.\nStatistical Methods Steps : \nEliminate the sequences that are more than r% identical. There are two ways to eliminate the sequences. It can be done either by removing sequences from the block or just by finding similar sequences and replace them by new sequences which could represent the cluster. Elimination is done to remove protein sequences that are more similar than the specified threshold.\n\nA database storing the sequence alignments of the most conserved regions of protein families. These alignments are used to derive the BLOSUM matrices. Only the sequences with a percentage of identity lower than the threshold are used.\nBy using the block, counting the pairs of amino acids in each column of the multiple alignment.\n\nIt gives the ratio of the occurrence each amino acid combination in the observed data to the expected value of occurrence of the pair.\nIt is rounded off and used in the substitution matrix.\n\nformula_1\n\nIn which formula_2 is the possibility of observed and formula_3 is the possibility of expected.\n\nThe odds for relatedness are calculated from log odd ratio, which are then rounded off to get the substitution matrices BLOSUM matrices.\n\nA scoring matrix or a table of values is required for evaluating the significance of a sequence alignment, such as describing the probability of a biologically meaningful amino-acid or nucleotide residue-pair occurring in an alignment. Typically, when two nucleotide sequences are being compared, all that is being scored is whether or not two bases are the same at one position. All matches and mismatches are respectively given the same score (typically +1 or +5 for matches, and -1 or -4 for mismatches). But it is different for proteins. Substitution matrices for amino acids are more complicated and implicitly take into account everything that might affect the frequency with which any amino acid is substituted for another. The objective is to provide a relatively heavy penalty for aligning two residues together if they have a low probability of being homologous (correctly aligned by evolutionary descent). Two major forces drive the amino-acid substitution rates away from uniformity: substitutions occur with the different frequencies, and lessen functionally tolerated than others. Thus, substitutions are selected against.\n\nCommonly used substitution matrices include the blocks substitution (BLOSUM) and point accepted mutation (PAM) matrices. Both are based on taking sets of high-confidence alignments of many homologous proteins and assessing the frequencies of all substitutions, but they are computed using different methods.\n\nScores within a BLOSUM are log-odds scores that measure, in an alignment, the logarithm for the ratio of the likelihood of two amino acids appearing with a biological sense and the likelihood of the same amino acids appearing by chance. The matrices are based on the minimum percentage identity of the aligned protein sequence used in calculating them. Every possible identity or substitution is assigned a score based on its observed frequencies in the alignment of related proteins. A positive score is given to the more likely substitutions while a negative score is given to the less likely substitutions.\n\nTo calculate a BLOSUM matrix, the following equation is used: \n\nHere, formula_5 is the probability of two amino acids formula_6 and formula_7 replacing each other in a homologous sequence, and formula_8 and formula_9 are the background probabilities of finding the amino acids formula_6 and formula_7 in any protein sequence. The factor formula_12 is a scaling factor, set such that the matrix contains easily computable integer values.\n\nBLOSUM62: midrange\n\nBLOSUM80: more related proteins\n\nBLOSUM45: distantly related proteins\n\nAn article in Nature Biotechnology revealed that the BLOSUM62 used for so many years as a standard is not exactly accurate according to the algorithm described by Henikoff and Henikoff. Surprisingly, the miscalculated BLOSUM62 improves search performance.\n\nThe BLOSUM62 matrix with the amino acids in the table grouped according to the chemistry of the side chain, as in (a). Each value in the matrix is calculated by dividing the frequency of occurrence of the amino acid pair in the BLOCKS database, clustered at the 62% level, divided by the probability that the same two amino acids might align by chance. The ratio is then converted to a logarithm and expressed as a log odds score, as for PAM. BLOSUM matrices are usually scaled in half-bit units. A score of zero indicates that the frequency with which a given two amino acids were found aligned in the database was as expected by chance, while a positive score indicates that the alignment was found more often than by chance, and negative score indicates that the alignment was found less often than by chance.\n\nBLOSUM scores was used to predict and understand the surface gene variants among hepatitis B virus carriers and T-cell epitopes.\n\nDNA sequences of HBsAg were obtained from 180 patients, in which 51 were chronic HBV carrier and 129 newly diagnosed patients, and compared with consensus sequences built with 168 HBV sequences imported from GenBank. Literature review and BLOSUM scores were used to define potentially altered antigenicity.\n\nA novel input representation has been developed consisting of a combination of sparse encoding, Blosum encoding, and input derived from hidden Markov models. this method predicts T-cell epitopes for the genome of hepatitis C virus and discuss possible applications of the prediction method to guide the process of rational vaccine design.\n\nBLOSUM matrices are also used as a scoring matrix when comparing DNA sequences or protein sequences to judge the quality of the alignment. This form of scoring system is utilized by a wide range of alignment software including BLAST.\n\nIn addition to BLOSUM matrices, a previously developed scoring matrix can be used. This is known as a PAM. The two result in the same scoring outcome, but use differing methodologies. BLOSUM looks directly at mutations in motifs of related sequences while PAM's extrapolate evolutionary information based on closely related sequences.\n\nSince both PAM and BLOSUM are different methods for showing the same scoring information, the two can be compared but due to the very different method of obtaining this score, a PAM100 does not equal a BLOSUM100.\n\n"}
{"id": "28914295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28914295", "title": "Bartley Glacier", "text": "Bartley Glacier\n\nBartley Glacier () is a hanging glacier on the south wall of Wright Valley in the Asgard Range of Victoria Land, just west of Meserve Glacier. It was named by the Advisory Committee on Antarctic Names for construction driver Ollie B. Bartley, U.S. Navy, who was killed on January 14, 1957 when the vehicle (weasel) he was driving dropped through the sea ice at Hut Point, McMurdo Sound.\n\n"}
{"id": "38560502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38560502", "title": "Before the Dawn (book)", "text": "Before the Dawn (book)\n\nBefore the Dawn: Recovering the Lost History of Our Ancestors is a non-fiction book by Nicholas Wade, a science reporter for \"The New York Times\". It was published in 2006 by the Penguin Group. By drawing upon research on the human genome, the book attempts to piece together what Wade calls \"two vanished periods\": the five million years of human evolution from the development of bipedalism leading up to behavioural modernity around 50,000 years ago, and the 45,000 subsequent years of prehistory.\n\nWade asserts that there is a clear continuity from the earlier apes of five million years ago to the anatomically modern humans who diverged from them, citing the genetic and social similarities between humans and chimpanzees. He attributes the divergence of the two species from a common ancestor to a change in their ecological niche; the ancestors of chimpanzees remained in the forests of equatorial Africa, whereas the ancestors of humans moved to open woodland and were exposed to different evolutionary pressures. Although Wade posits that much of human evolution can be attributed to the physical environment, he also believes that one of the major forces shaping evolution has been the nature of human society itself.\n\nAfter humans migrated out of their ancestral environment of eastern Africa, they were exposed to new climates and challenges. Thus, Wade argues, human evolution did not end with behavioural modernity, but continued to be shaped by the different environments and lifestyles of each continent. While many adaptations happened in parallel across human populations, Wade believes that genetic isolation – either because of geography or hostile tribalism – also facilitated a degree of independent evolution, leading to genetic and cultural differentiation from the ancestral population and giving rise to different human races and languages.\n\nThe book received generally positive reviews, but some criticised the use of the term \"race\" and the implications of differences between them. In 2007, it won the Science in Society Journalism Award from the National Association of Science Writers.\n\nNicholas Wade divides \"Before the Dawn\" into twelve chapters, which are roughly in the chronological order of the human past. The first chapter, \"Genetics & Genesis\", gives a general overview of the themes that are explored in the book. The central theme is that the human genome provides a record of the human past, including what Wade calls the \"two vanished periods\" of human evolution and prehistory. Through information from the human genome, Wade proclaims, it is possible to determine when humans lost their body hair and began to wear clothes, to track their migration out of Africa, to discover if they interbred with Neanderthals, and even to reconstruct the evolution of language.\n\nThe second chapter, \"Metamorphosis\", focuses on the evolutionary origins of humans around 5 million years ago in equatorial Africa. Wade suggests that the last common ancestor of humans and chimpanzees lived in forests. Some of them, due to a global climate change between 5 and 10 million years ago, left the shrinking forests and moved to open woodland, and this new ecological niche gave rise to the human lineage. A change in food availability led to an adaptation for the ability to eat meat, and this nutrition facilitated the evolution of a larger brain. The knuckle-walking of the common ancestor gave way to bipedalism, which is more efficient over longer distances. A larger brain in combination with freed-up hands culminated in the evolution of \"Homo habilis\" and the first use of tools around 2.5 million years ago, and the more humanlike and larger brained \"Homo ergaster\" about 1.7 million years ago. The adaptations of \"H. ergaster\" to hot, dry climates included an external nose to condense air and minimise water loss, and the loss of body hair to allow sweating to cool the body and larger brain. Wade writes that a mutation in the melanocortin receptor gene created an advantageous darkening of the pale, hairless skin. The close descendants of \"H. ergaster\", \"Homo erectus\" and \"Homo heidelbergensis\", migrated out of Africa and to Asia (around 1 to 1.66 million years ago) and Europe (around 500,000 years ago), respectively. In Europe, the glacial conditions around 300,000 to 400,000 years ago pressured \"H. heidelbergensis\" to evolve into Neanderthals.\n\nThe human lineage that remained in Africa eventually evolved into anatomically modern humans with modern-sized brains by about 200,000 years ago, and became common about 100,000 years ago, but did not become behaviourally modern until about 50,000 years ago. Citing the paleoanthropologist Richard Klein, Wade posits that such a great change must have been because of a neurological change, and was therefore genetic. This \"genetic revolution\", as Wade calls it, facilitated the emergence of language and thus the ability to share thoughts and innovations. Wade discusses the evolutionary origins of language in chapter three, \"First Words\". He references Noam Chomsky's theory of \"universal grammar\" – which refers to both the hard-wiring of the brain that allows children to learn grammatical rules, and the underlying grammatical similarities of all human languages. Wade cites a number of evolutionary psychologists for an explanation, including Robin Dunbar, who argues that language evolved because it was a more efficient way of establishing social bonds than grooming; Geoffrey Miller, who suggests that speech was a signal of intelligence and thus evolved through sexual selection; and Steven Pinker, who thinks that the ecological niche of humans required the sharing of knowledge. Wade writes that the genetic basis of language is linked to the FOXP2 gene, as it shows signs of significant change in humans but not in chimpanzees, and that mutations of it cause severe speech disorders.\n\nChapter four, \"Eden\", discusses the ancestral population of modern humans in Africa. Through the Y chromosome and mitochondrial DNA, Wade gives evidence to suggest that the ancestral population was no more than 5,000 to 10,000 individuals in an area corresponding to what is now Ethiopia. He supposes that the small population would have lived in close proximity, and likely spoke the same language. By looking at the click languages of the genetically \"ancient\" Khoisan peoples, and the fact that clicks are more often lost than gained in languages, Wade suggests that clicks were present in this ancestral language. To understand the nature of the ancestral population, Donald Brown's theory of \"universal people\" is raised; that is, the shared behaviours of all modern human societies. A small minority of this ancestral population, Wade continues in chapter five, \"Exodus\", crossed the Gate of Grief and left Africa 50,000 years ago, following the coasts of India and the former continents of Sunda and Sahul. As they moved into the interior of Eurasia, they clashed with \"H. erectus\" and Neanderthals, eventually pushing them into refuges and ultimately to their extinction.\n\nThe wide dispersal of humans across varying environments with different evolutionary pressures, Wade contends, began to give rise to regional differentiation. He gives examples of variation in two genes related to brain development: an allele of microcephalin that appeared about 37,000 years ago and is common in Europeans and East Asians, but rare in sub-Saharan Africans; and an allele of ASPM that appeared about 6,000 years ago and is common in Europeans, Middle Easterners and to a lesser extent East Asians, but is nearly non-existent in sub-Saharan Africans. Wade believes that the rapid spread of these alleles conferred some cognitive advantage, and one that was enough to be favoured by natural selection. Wade continues to discuss the different human trajectories in chapter six, \"Stasis\"; he writes that while the humans across the Eurasian landmass were exposed to similarly harsh glacial conditions during the Upper Paleolithic, they gradually began to diverge between east and west. It was during this period that the dog was domesticated by humans living in Siberia, who in turn crossed the Bering land bridge and populated the Americas. Wade states that an adaptation in mitochondrial DNA for cold conditions possibly facilitated this migration. Furthermore, he theorises that the \"mongoloid\" skull and body type of East Asians and Native Americans were physical adaptations to the cold, and also partly the result of genetic drift, whereas light skin developed separately in East Asians and \"caucasoid\" Europeans to better enable them to synthesise vitamin D with sunlight.\n\nChapter seven, \"Settlement\", concerns sedentism – the transition from a nomadic lifestyle to a society which remains in one place permanently – which began to rise in the Near East at the end of the Last Glacial Maximum. It required new ways of thought and social organisation; Wade thinks that an evolutionary adaptation for less aggressiveness allowed this change, noting how the skeletons of the ancestral population were less gracile than those of today. Sedentism facilitated the development of agriculture, including the cultivation and domestication of wild cereals and animals. The domestication of cattle in northern Europe and parts of Africa facilitated the spread of a genetic mutation that allowed lactose tolerance, and Wade believes this is evidence of culture and evolution interacting. The following chapter, \"Sociality\", focuses on the common dynamics of human societies, including warfare, religion, trade, and a division of roles between the sexes. Wade theorises that these institutions have an evolutionary basis, and looks at closely related primate societies – such as those of chimpanzees and bonobos – for evidence. Wade goes on to suggest that cannibalism may have been more common in the human past by noting a common genetic adaptation that protects against Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, which is associated with the consumption of brain.\n\nWade writes that along with the ongoing social evolution that occurred after humans left Africa, the human physical form also continued to evolve. This is the subject of chapter nine, \"Race\"; because humans were spread across different continents, and distance and tribal hostility limited gene flow between them, they followed different evolutionary paths. Race is not well understood, he says, because its historical implications cause it to be avoided in modern academic studies. Wade states, however, that there are reasons to reconsider the study of it; the genetic differences between races may give evidence of the different evolutionary pressures they faced, and the differences may be medically relevant. Citing Neil Risch, Wade puts forth that there are five continental races – Africans, Caucasians, Asians, Pacific Islanders and Native Americans – which are made up of smaller subdivisions called ethnicities. He explicitly avoids discussing the cause of IQ differences between races, but hypothesises that racial differences may have an influence on sporting achievement. Chapter ten, \"Language\", concerns the spread and division of languages. Wade believes that all languages ultimately came from an ancestral language, and that many of its descendants – such as Proto-Indo-European – possibly spread through agriculture. By citing linguists such as Joseph Greenberg, Wade shows that almost all of today's languages belong to families, which in turn may belong to superfamilies such as Eurasiatic.\n\nIn chapter eleven, \"History\", Wade demonstrates how genetics can be related to recorded history. An example given is the substantial genetic legacy of Genghis Khan and his male relatives. History correlates with this, as writers of the period stated that he had hundreds of wives. Wade then covers the origins of the British; contrary to popular belief, he writes, neither the Anglo-Saxons nor the Vikings eradicated the indigenous population, as the Y chromosomes common to Celtic speakers are carried by a large percentage of the male population of Britain. Markers in these Y chromosomes can be linked to the Basques, and he suggests that the British and Irish descend from a refuge in Spain they shared during the Last Glacial Maximum.\n\nWade also discusses the origin of Jews; they descend from the Middle East through their Y chromosomes, but their mitochondrial DNA resembles that of their host countries. Citing Gregory Cochran and Henry Harpending, Wade argues that Ashkenazi Jews were historically forced into intellectually demanding occupations by their European hosts, and these selective pressures favoured genes that raised their intelligence. The consequence of this, however, was an increase in sphingolipid diseases. The final chapter, \"Evolution\", gives a summary of human evolution from its origins to the present, and declares that it is unlikely that it will ever cease. Wade speculates where evolution will lead humans in the future, suggesting further skeletal gracilisation, increases in intelligence, adaptations to the changing climate, and even the possibility of speciation.\n\nWade has written for \"The New York Times\" since 1981 as an editorial writer, science editor and a reporter, including articles supporting the idea of recent human evolution and racial differentiation. His motivation for writing \"Before the Dawn\" began during his reporting of genetics, particularly since the sequencing of the human genome in 2003, as he started to realise how it could be related to the human past. He sought to put all of the recent research of archaeology, paleoanthropology and linguistics together into one narrative revolving around genetics. \"Before the Dawn\" was published in hardcover in 2006, and then in an updated paperback in 2007, by the Penguin Group.\n\nOne of the principal themes of the book is the continual evolution of humans, especially since their migration out of Africa around 50,000 years ago. In an interview with \"American Scientist\" in 2006, Wade recognised the resistance against this idea in the fields of anthropology and archaeology, but thought that as \"genetic evidence [forces a] reevaluation of the view that evolution stopped in the distant past\", it would ease over time. More controversial, though, is the idea that humans populations have diverged enough to be considered \"races\". When asked about the \"idea of race and how it is often thought of as just a social construct\", he replied:\n\nWell, I think the subject of race has been so difficult and so polluted by malign ideas that most people have just left it alone, including geneticists. … Most genetic variation is neutral – it doesn't do anything for or against the phenotype, and evolution ignores it – so most previous attempts to look at race have concluded that there's little difference between races. I think this position is the one on which the social scientists are basing their position. … If you look at the genes that do make a difference, selected genes, which are a tiny handful of the whole, you do find a number of differences, not very many, but a number of interesting differences between races as to which genes have been selected. This, of course, makes a lot of sense, because once the human family dispersed from its homeland in Africa, people faced different environments on each continent, different climates, different evolutionary challenges, and each group adapted to its environment in its own way.\n\n\"American Scientist\" responded by suggesting that the term \"race\" is associated with historical baggage, and asked if perhaps a different term should be used. Wade replied, saying:\n\nI'm not sure how that will play out. The geneticists, if you read their papers, have long been using code words. They sort of dropped the term \"race\" about 1980 or earlier, and instead you see code words like \"population\" or \"population structure.\" Now that they're able to define race in genetic terms they tend to use other words, like \"continental groups\" or \"continent of origin,\" which does, indeed, correspond to the everyday conception of race. When I'm writing I prefer to use the word race because that's the word that everyone understands. It's a word with baggage, but it's not necessarily a malign word.\n\nIn \"Before the Dawn\", Wade suggests that genetic differences between human populations, or races, may be responsible for differences in sporting achievement. He avoids the more controversial discussion of why there are differences in IQ between them (aside from the high IQ of Ashkenazi Jews), however, saying that \"[t]his dispute, whose merits lie beyond the scope of this book, has long made the study of race controversial\".\n\n\"Before the Dawn\" received generally favourable reviews. E. O. Wilson, often known as the \"father of sociobiology\", proclaimed that it was \"[b]y far the best book I have ever read on humanity's deep history.\" James Watson, co-discoverer of the DNA double helix and Nobel Prize winner, commended the book for providing a \"masterful overview on how changes in our respective DNA lineages let us begin to understand how human beings have evolved from ancestral hunter-gatherer forebears into effective members of today's advanced human societies.\" Lionel Tiger, Professor of Anthropology at Rutgers University, stated that \"Nicholas Wade has delivered an impeccable, fearless, responsible and absorbing account\" and that the book is \"[b]ound to be the gold standard in the field for a very long time.\" Similarly, \"Washington Post\" columnist Richard Cohen declared that Wade \"is a robust and refreshing critic of scientific political correctness.\"\n\nAnother positive review came from John Derbyshire, a former columnist for the \"National Review\", who declared that:\n\nStricter adherents of the <nowiki>[</nowiki>standard social science model<nowiki>]</nowiki> will be scandalized by the inclusion of a chapter titled \"Race,\" which according to them is a thing that does not exist, except in the diseased imaginations of \"racists.\" Fiddlesticks, says Wade: Of course race exists. He proceeds to give a calm, factual account of what we know, again carefully rooting it all in the genetic evidence.\n\nDerbyshire concluded:\n\n\"Before the Dawn\" is beautifully done, a grand genealogy of modern humanity, rooted in fact but spiced with an appropriate measure of speculation and hypothesis. Even for a reader to whom the material is already familiar – one who, for example, has been following Nicholas Wade’s reports in \"the New York Times\" – it is well worth the trouble of reading this book for its narrative value, for the elegant way Wade has put it all together as a single compelling story. This is a brilliant book, by one of our best science journalists.\n\nOther positive reviews came from \"Publishers Weekly\"; \"Kirkus Reviews\", who called the book \"meaty, well-written\"; and \"The New York Review of Books\", who said that it was \"on the whole, a fascinating account of recent scientific findings.\"\n\nCraig Stanford, Professor of Biological Sciences and Anthropology at the University of Southern California, gave the book a generally positive review in \"American Scientist\", but offered critique by suggesting that \"[i]f there is a flaw in this tightly written, insightful book, it is that Wade provides perhaps too many of the stock examples of human evolution. In my view, he spends too much time and space attempting to convince the reader that we did indeed evolve from apes (duh!) and that our own social behavior and cognition have roots in the deep human past.\" Peter Dizikes of \"The New York Times\" also gave a mostly positive review, calling it a \"timely and informative survey.\" However, he criticised Wade's claim that \"the development of lactose tolerance shows broadly that 'genes respond to cultural changes'\", and posited the alternative view that it is \"a case of genes responding to an environmental change produced by society – the abundance of milk-producing cattle – and not to any abstract cultural practice.\" Dizikes also took issue with Wade's use of the word \"race\", saying that the \"judgment that these regional genetic tendencies constitute 'races' has no deep scientific rationale, either. Such labels are generalizations situated atop a complicated intermingling of populations.\"\n\nContrastingly, social anthropologists Kenneth M. Weiss and Anne V. Buchanan of the journal \"Nature\" (of which Nicholas Wade was formerly deputy editor) gave the book a highly critical review, finding particular fault in the book's social and political implications:\n\nPositions on genetic determinism often correlate with social politics, and few of us are neutral or even changeable on the issues. Wade recognizes that his ideas may not be acceptable to everyone but warns that \"to falter in scientific inquiry would be a retreat into darkness\". He seems to be warning, appropriately enough, against benighted political correctness. But we should never become casual about how comparable \"slopular\" science and very similar speculative evolutionary reasoning by leading scientists fed a venomous kind of darkness not too many decades ago. Wade's post-hoc tales often put him in step with a long march of social darwinists who, with comfortable detachment from the (currently) dominant culture, insist that we look starkly at life in the raw and not blink at what we see.\n\nIn 2007, the book was given the Science in Society Journalism Award by the National Association of Science Writers. The judges found that Wade's writing was \"skillful\" in putting together the many findings about human origins in an \"engaging\" way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "508258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=508258", "title": "Björn Kurtén", "text": "Björn Kurtén\n\nBjörn Olof Lennartson Kurtén (19 November 1924 – 28 December 1988) was a Finnish vertebrate paleontologist, belonging to the Swedish-speaking minority of his country.\n\nKurtén was born at Vaasa.\n\nHe was a professor in paleontology at the University of Helsinki from 1972 up to his death in 1988. He also spent a year as lecturing guest professor at Harvard University in 1971.\n\nIn \"Not from the Apes\" (1971) Kurtén argued that man's development has been separate from the apes since the Miocene, and that man did not descend from anthropoids, but rather the reverse:\n\nHe was also the author of a series of books about modern man's encounter with Neanderthals, such as \"Dance of the Tiger\" (1978, 1980). When asked what genre these works belonged in, Kurtén coined the term paleofiction to describe his oeuvre. This genre was popularized by Jean M. Auel in her Earth's Children series of books. He received several awards for his books popularizing science, among others the Kalinga Prize from UNESCO.\n\nIn the 1980s, Kurtén also hosted a 6-part TV series about the ice age, co-produced by several Scandinavian TV channels.\n\n\nKurtén also published some fifty scientific works, two of them in cooperation with the Spanish paleontologist Miquel Crusafont Pairó.\n"}
{"id": "35889303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35889303", "title": "Bott Hypothesis", "text": "Bott Hypothesis\n\nThe Bott Hypothesis is a thesis first advanced in Elizabeth Bott's \"Family and Social Networks\" (1957), one of the most influential works published in the sociology of the family. Elizabeth Bott's hypothesis holds that the connectedness or the density of a husband's and wife's separate social networks is positively associated with marital role segregation.\n\nIn her \"Family and Social Network\" (1957), Elizabeth Bott argued that conjugal role performance is related to the density of each spouse's social networks outside the nuclear family. The data Bott used to develop this hypothesis were drawn from the study of 20 working-class, London families.\n\nThus, according to Bott:\n\nIn other words, what she claimed is that if family members maintain ties with a network of friends or neighbors who know one another and interact apart from the family members, the members of these external social networks can develop norm consensus and exert pressure on the network's members. When members of close-knit networks marry and when they continue to be drawn into network activities after marriage, they can develop a clearly differentiated conjugal role organization of tasks. The external close-knit networks provide the spouses with instrumental assistance and emotional support outside the couple and they, thus, lessen conjugal interdependence and make for a segregated role organization.\n\nTo support her main hypothesis, Bott also offered three corollary hypotheses:\n\nConsidered by some as one of the predecessors of network science, Bott recognized the fact that, although important, individual attributes cannot explain all the variations in family relations. Instead, she claimed that the social environment which can be visualized as a network rather than as a group can affect conjugal roles. In particular, the density of a network (the proportion of individuals with direct ties to each other) facilitates the emergence of common norms and social support making husbands and wives less likely to invest in each other.\n\nUdry and Hall (1965) tested the Bott hypothesis by using a sample of 43 middle-aged, middle-class couples, and the four people each spouse indicated most frequent contact with. However, they did not find a clear-cut relationship between role segregation and network connectedness (measured by asking members of each spouse's network how well they knew each other). Thus, they conclude that Bott's hypothesis may apply only to lower-class couples, or perhaps to middle-class couples at a particular point in the life cycle.\n\nJoel Nelson (1966) used a sample of 131 working-class women in New Haven and asked the women to list the four people they interacted with most frequently and how often they saw at least two of them at the same time. He introduced the term \"clique\" contacts for those who had interactions of the latter type at least once a week. Analyzing the influence of the closeness of clique relationships on members' attitudes toward marriage on a traditionalism-modernism dimension, he found the first to be related to marital traditionalism, though not strongly. Thus, women with \"clique\" relationships were found to have more traditional marital expectations and attitudes than their counterparts whose network contacts were more \"individualistic\".\n\nAldous and Straus (1966) studied 391 married women living on farms and in towns of at least 2,500 inhabitants. The town group was separated into those with blue and white-collar husbands and the respondents were asked to name the eight women they socialized with most frequently and how many of the eight knew each other in order to measure network closure. Besides \"network connectedness\", several other indexes were devised for measuring \"task differentiation\", \"sex role activities\" and \"power\". Although the data failed to confirm the Bott hypothesis, Aldous and Straus note that their sample may have been problematic since there was little variation in network connectedness, they did not know if the wives' social networks were developed before of after their marriages, and there was no data concerning the husbands' social networks.\n\nAlexandra Maryansky and Masako Ishii-Kuntz (1991) find evidence that supports Elizabeth Bott's hypothesis by applying it to a review of social relations among representative species from seven genera of Old World primates. After formalizing and stating Bott's theory more abstractly they highlight three phenomena concerning the effect of social networks:\n"}
{"id": "3859517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3859517", "title": "CADPAC", "text": "CADPAC\n\nCADPAC, the Cambridge Analytic Derivatives Package, is a suite of programs for ab initio computational chemistry calculations. It has been developed by R. D. Amos with contributions from I. L. Alberts, J. S. Andrews, S. M. Colwell, N. C. Handy, D. Jayatilaka, P. J. Knowles, R. Kobayashi, K. E. Laidig, G. Laming, A. M. Lee, P. E. Maslen, C. W. Murray, J. E. Rice, E. D. Simandiras, A. J. Stone, M.-D. Su and D. J. Tozer. at Cambridge University since 1981. It is capable of molecular Hartree–Fock calculations, Møller–Plesset calculations, various other correlated calculations and density functional theory calculations.\n\n"}
{"id": "54421105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54421105", "title": "Canadian Journal of Criminology and Criminal Justice", "text": "Canadian Journal of Criminology and Criminal Justice\n\nThe Canadian Journal of Criminology and Criminal Justice is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering the theoretical and scientific aspects of the study of crime and the practical problems of law enforcement, administration of justice and the treatment of offenders, particularly in the Canadian context. It is published by the University of Toronto Press.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "2305080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305080", "title": "Combined gas law", "text": "Combined gas law\n\nThe combined gas law is a gas law that combines Charles's law, Boyle's law, and Gay-Lussac's law. There is no official founder for this law; it is merely an amalgamation of the three previously discovered laws. These laws each relate one thermodynamic variable to another mathematically while holding everything else constant. Charles's law states that volume and temperature are directly proportional to each other as long as pressure is held constant. Boyle's law asserts that pressure and volume are inversely proportional to each other at fixed temperature. Finally, Gay-Lussac's law introduces a direct proportionality between temperature and pressure as long as it is at a constant volume. The inter-dependence of these variables is shown in the combined gas law, which clearly states that:\n\nThis can be stated mathematically as:\n\nwhere:\n\nFor comparing the same substance under two different sets of conditions, the law can be written as:\n\nThe addition of Avogadro's law to the combined gas law yields the ideal gas law.\n\nBoyle's Law states that the pressure-volume product is constant:\nCharles's Law shows that the volume is proportional to the absolute temperature:\nGay-Lussac's Law says that the pressure is proportional to the absolute temperature:\n\nThe algebraic manipulation cannot be done directly because Boyle did his experiments with constant temperature, Charles did them with constant pressure and Lussac did them with constant volume, therefore a more exact interpretation of the prior equations would be:\n\nwith formula_7 not being constants, but appropriate functions, mimicking the respective dependencies. \n\nKeeping this in mind, to carry the derivation on correctly, one must imagine the gas being altered by one process at a time. Say, starting to change only pressure and volume, according to Boyle's law, then:\n\nThen changing volume and temperature, according to Charles' law:\n\nFinally, pressure and temperature are changed obeying Gay-Lussac's Law:\n\nApplying algebra yields:\n\nor in other words\nwhere k is a physical constant, and the dependencies formula_27 have vanished.\n\nThe combined gas law can be used to explain the mechanics where pressure, temperature, and volume are affected. For example: air conditioners, refrigerators and the formation of clouds. Also used in fluid mechanics and thermodynamics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48596894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48596894", "title": "Confined liquid", "text": "Confined liquid\n\nIn condensed-matter physics, confined liquid designates a liquid that is subject to geometric constraints on a nanoscopic scale so that most molecules are close enough to an interface to sense some difference from standard bulk conditions. Typical examples are liquids in porous media or liquids in solvation shells.\n\nConfinement regularly prevents crystallization, which enables liquids to be supercooled below their homegenous nucleation temperature even if this is impossible in the bulk state. This holds in particular for water, which is by far the most studied confined liquid.\n\n"}
{"id": "9823717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9823717", "title": "Construction of t-norms", "text": "Construction of t-norms\n\nIn mathematics, t-norms are a special kind of binary operations on the real unit interval [0, 1]. Various constructions of t-norms, either by explicit definition or by transformation from previously known functions, provide a plenitude of examples and classes of t-norms. This is important, e.g., for finding counter-examples or supplying t-norms with particular properties for use in engineering applications of fuzzy logic. The main ways of construction of t-norms include using \"generators\", defining \"parametric classes\" of t-norms, \"rotations\", or \"ordinal sums\" of t-norms.\n\nRelevant background can be found in the article on t-norms.\n\nThe method of constructing t-norms by generators consists in using a unary function (\"generator\") to transform some known binary function (most often, addition or multiplication) into a t-norm.\n\nIn order to allow using non-bijective generators, which do not have the inverse function, the following notion of \"pseudo-inverse function\" is employed:\n\nThe construction of t-norms by additive generators is based on the following theorem:\n\nAlternatively, one may avoid using the notion of pseudo-inverse function by having formula_2. The corresponding residuum can then be expressed as formula_3. And the biresiduum as formula_4.\n\nIf a t-norm \"T\" results from the latter construction by a function \"f\" which is right-continuous in 0, then \"f\" is called an \"additive generator\" of \"T\".\n\nExamples:\n\nBasic properties of additive generators are summarized by the following theorem:\n\nThe isomorphism between addition on [0, +∞] and multiplication on [0, 1] by the logarithm and the exponential function allow two-way transformations between additive and multiplicative generators of a t-norm. If \"f\" is an additive generator of a t-norm \"T\", then the function \"h\": [0, 1] → [0, 1] defined as \"h\"(\"x\") = e is a \"multiplicative generator\" of \"T\", that is, a function \"h\" such that\nVice versa, if \"h\" is a multiplicative generator of \"T\", then \"f\": [0, 1] → [0, +∞] defined by \"f\"(\"x\") = −log(\"h\"(x)) is an additive generator of \"T\".\n\nMany families of related t-norms can be defined by an explicit formula depending on a parameter \"p\". This section lists the best known parameterized families of t-norms. The following definitions will be used in the list:\n\n\nThe family of \"Schweizer–Sklar t-norms\", introduced by Berthold Schweizer and Abe Sklar in the early 1960s, is given by the parametric definition\n\nA Schweizer–Sklar t-norm formula_7 is\nThe family is strictly decreasing for \"p\" ≥ 0 and continuous with respect to \"p\" in [−∞, +∞]. An additive generator for formula_7 for −∞ < \"p\" < +∞ is\n\nThe family of \"Hamacher t-norms\", introduced by Horst Hamacher in the late 1970s, is given by the following parametric definition for 0 ≤ \"p\" ≤ +∞:\nThe t-norm formula_11 is called the \"Hamacher product.\"\n\nHamacher t-norms are the only t-norms which are rational functions.\nThe Hamacher t-norm formula_12 is strict if and only if \"p\" < +∞ (for \"p\" = 1 it is the product t-norm). The family is strictly decreasing and continuous with respect to \"p\". An additive generator of formula_12 for \"p\" < +∞ is\n\nThe family of \"Frank t-norms\", introduced by M.J. Frank in the late 1970s, is given by the parametric definition for 0 ≤ \"p\" ≤ +∞ as follows:\n\nThe Frank t-norm formula_16 is strict if \"p\" < +∞. The family is strictly decreasing and continuous with respect to \"p\". An additive generator for formula_16 is\n\nThe family of \"Yager t-norms\", introduced in the early 1980s by Ronald R. Yager, is given for 0 ≤ \"p\" ≤ +∞ by\n\nThe Yager t-norm formula_20 is nilpotent if and only if 0 < \"p\" < +∞ (for \"p\" = 1 it is the Łukasiewicz t-norm). The family is strictly increasing and continuous with respect to \"p\". The Yager t-norm formula_20 for 0 < \"p\" < +∞ arises from the Łukasiewicz t-norm by raising its additive generator to the power of \"p\". An additive generator of formula_20 for 0 < \"p\" < +∞ is\n\nThe family of \"Aczél–Alsina t-norms\", introduced in the early 1980s by János Aczél and Claudi Alsina, is given for 0 ≤ \"p\" ≤ +∞ by\n\nThe Aczél–Alsina t-norm formula_25 is strict if and only if 0 < \"p\" < +∞ (for \"p\" = 1 it is the product t-norm). The family is strictly increasing and continuous with respect to \"p\". The Aczél–Alsina t-norm formula_25 for 0 < \"p\" < +∞ arises from the product t-norm by raising its additive generator to the power of \"p\". An additive generator of formula_25 for 0 < \"p\" < +∞ is\n\nThe family of \"Dombi t-norms\", introduced by József Dombi (1982), is given for 0 ≤ \"p\" ≤ +∞ by\n\nThe Dombi t-norm formula_30 is strict if and only if 0 < \"p\" < +∞ (for \"p\" = 1 it is the Hamacher product). The family is strictly increasing and continuous with respect to \"p\". The Dombi t-norm formula_30 for 0 < \"p\" < +∞ arises from the Hamacher product t-norm by raising its additive generator to the power of \"p\". An additive generator of formula_30 for 0 < \"p\" < +∞ is\n\nThe family of \"Sugeno–Weber t-norms\" was introduced in the early 1980s by Siegfried Weber; the dual t-conorms were defined already in the early 1970s by Michio Sugeno. It is given for −1 ≤ \"p\" ≤ +∞ by\n\nThe Sugeno–Weber t-norm formula_35 is nilpotent if and only if −1 < \"p\" < +∞ (for \"p\" = 0 it is the Łukasiewicz t-norm). The family is strictly increasing and continuous with respect to \"p\". An additive generator of formula_35 for 0 < \"p\" < +∞ [sic] is\n\nThe ordinal sum constructs a t-norm from a family of t-norms, by shrinking them into disjoint subintervals of the interval [0, 1] and completing the t-norm by using the minimum on the rest of the unit square. It is based on the following theorem:\n\nThe resulting t-norm is called the \"ordinal sum\" of the summands (\"T\", \"a\", \"b\") for \"i\" in \"I\", denoted by\nor formula_40 if \"I\" is finite.\n\nOrdinal sums of t-norms enjoy the following properties:\n\n\nIf formula_41 is a left-continuous t-norm, then its residuum \"R\" is given as follows:\nwhere \"R\" is the residuum of \"T\", for each \"i\" in \"I\".\n\nThe ordinal sum of a family of continuous t-norms is a continuous t-norm. By the Mostert–Shields theorem, every continuous t-norm is expressible as the ordinal sum of Archimedean continuous t-norms. Since the latter are either nilpotent (and then isomorphic to the Łukasiewicz t-norm) or strict (then isomorphic to the product t-norm), each continuous t-norm is isomorphic to the ordinal sum of Łukasiewicz and product t-norms.\n\nImportant examples of ordinal sums of continuous t-norms are the following ones:\n\n\nThe construction of t-norms by rotation was introduced by Sándor Jenei (2000). It is based on the following theorem:\nGeometrically, the construction can be described as first shrinking the t-norm \"T\" to the interval [0.5, 1] and then rotating it by the angle 2π/3 in both directions around the line connecting the points (0, 0, 1) and (1, 1, 0).\nThe theorem can be generalized by taking for \"N\" any \"strong negation\", that is, an involutive strictly decreasing continuous function on [0, 1], and for \"t\" taking the unique fixed point of \"N\".\n\nThe resulting t-norm enjoys the following \"rotation invariance\" property with respect to \"N\":\nThe negation induced by \"T\" is the function \"N\", that is, \"N\"(\"x\") = \"R\"(\"x\", 0) for all \"x\", where \"R\" is the residuum of \"T\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1888138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1888138", "title": "Diamicton", "text": "Diamicton\n\nDiamicton (also diamict) (from Greek \"δια\" (dia-): through and \"µεικτός\" (meiktós): mixed) is a terrigenous sediment (a sediment resulting from dry-land erosion) that is unsorted to poorly sorted and contains particles ranging in size from clay to boulders, suspended in a matrix of mud or sand.\n\nThe term was proposed by Flint and others as a purely descriptive term, devoid of any reference to a specific origin or depositional environment. Although the term is most commonly applied to unsorted glacial deposits (i.e., glacial till), other processes that create diamictons are solifluction, landslides, debris flows, and turbiditic olistostromes.\n\nLithified diamicton is referred to as diamictite.\n\n"}
{"id": "679294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679294", "title": "Diffuse reflection", "text": "Diffuse reflection\n\nDiffuse reflection is the reflection of light or other waves or particles from a surface such that a ray incident on the surface is scattered at many angles rather than at just one angle as in the case of specular reflection. An \"ideal\" diffuse reflecting surface is said to exhibit Lambertian reflection, meaning that there is equal luminance when viewed from all directions lying in the half-space adjacent to the surface.\n\nA surface built from a non-absorbing powder such as plaster, or from fibers such as paper, or from a polycrystalline material such as white marble, reflects light diffusely with great efficiency. Many common materials exhibit a mixture of specular and diffuse reflection.\n\nThe visibility of objects, excluding light-emitting ones, is primarily caused by diffuse reflection of light: it is diffusely-scattered light that forms the image of the object in the observer's eye.\n\nDiffuse reflection from solids is generally not due to surface roughness. A flat surface is indeed required to give specular reflection, but it does not prevent diffuse reflection. A piece of highly polished white marble remains white; no amount of polishing will turn it into a mirror. Polishing produces some specular reflection, but the remaining light continues to be diffusely reflected.\n\nThe most general mechanism by which a surface gives diffuse reflection does not involve \"exactly\" the surface: most of the light is contributed by scattering centers beneath the surface, as illustrated in Figure 1.\nIf one were to imagine that the figure represents snow, and that the polygons are its (transparent) ice crystallites, an impinging ray is partially reflected (a few percent) by the first particle, enters in it, is again reflected by the interface with the second particle, enters in it, impinges on the third, and so on, generating a series of \"primary\" scattered rays in random directions, which, in turn, through the same mechanism, generate a large number of \"secondary\" scattered rays, which generate \"tertiary\" rays, and so forth. All these rays walk through the snow crystallites, which do not absorb light, until they arrive at the surface and exit in random directions. The result is that the light that was sent out is returned in all directions, so that snow is white despite being made of transparent material (ice crystals).\n\nFor simplicity, \"reflections\" are spoken of here, but more generally the interface between the small particles that constitute many materials is irregular on a scale comparable with light wavelength, so diffuse light is generated at each interface, rather than a single reflected ray, but the story can be told the same way.\n\nThis mechanism is very general, because almost all common materials are made of \"small things\" held together. Mineral materials are generally polycrystalline: one can describe them as made of a 3D mosaic of small, irregularly shaped defective crystals. Organic materials are usually composed of fibers or cells, with their membranes and their complex internal structure. And each interface, inhomogeneity or imperfection can deviate, reflect or scatter light, reproducing the above mechanism.\n\nFew materials do not cause diffuse reflection: among these are metals, which do not allow light to enter; gases, liquids, glass, and transparent plastics (which have a liquid-like amorphous microscopic structure); single crystals, such as some gems or a salt crystal; and some very special materials, such as the tissues which make the cornea and the lens of an eye. These materials can reflect diffusely, however, if their surface is microscopically rough, like in a frost glass (Figure 2), or, of course, if their homogeneous structure deteriorates, as in cataracts of the eye lens.\n\nA surface may also exhibit both specular and diffuse reflection, as is the case, for example, of glossy paints as used in home painting, which give also a fraction of specular reflection, while matte paints give almost exclusively diffuse reflection.\n\nMost materials can give some specular reflection, provided that their surface can be polished to eliminate irregularities comparable with the light wavelength (a fraction of a micrometer). Depending on the material and surface roughness, reflection may be mostly specular, mostly diffuse, or anywhere in between. A few materials, like liquids and glasses, lack the internal subdivisions which produce the subsurface scattering mechanism described above, and so give \"only\" specular reflection. Among common materials, only polished metals can reflect light specularly with high efficiency, as in aluminum or silver usually used in mirrors. All other common materials, even when perfectly polished, usually give not more than a few percent specular reflection, except in particular cases, such as grazing angle reflection by a lake, or the \"total reflection\" of a glass prism, or when structured in certain complex configurations such as the silvery skin of many fish species or the reflective surface of a dielectric mirror. Diffuse reflection can be highly efficient, as in white materials, due to the summing up of the many subsurface reflections.\n\nUp to this point white objects have been discussed, which do not absorb light. But the above scheme continues to be valid in the case that the material is absorbent. In this case, diffused rays will lose some wavelengths during their walk in the material, and will emerge colored. \n\nDiffusion affects the color of objects in a substantial manner because it determines the average path of light in the material, and hence to which extent the various wavelengths are absorbed. Red ink looks black when it stays in its bottle. Its vivid color is only perceived when it is placed on a scattering material (e.g. paper). This is so because light's path through the paper fibers (and through the ink) is only a fraction of millimeter long. However, light from the bottle has crossed several centimeters of ink and has been heavily absorbed, even in its red wavelengths.\n\nAnd, when a colored object has both diffuse and specular reflection, usually only the diffuse component is colored. A cherry reflects diffusely red light, absorbs all other colors and has a specular reflection which is essentially white (if the incident light is white light). This is quite general, because, except for metals, the reflectivity of most materials depends on their refractive index, which varies little with the wavelength (though it is this variation that causes the chromatic dispersion in a prism), so that all colors are reflected nearly with the same intensity. Reflections from different origin, instead, may be colored: metallic reflections, such as in gold or copper, or interferential reflections: iridescences, peacock feathers, butterfly wings, beetle elytra, or the antireflection coating of a lens.\n\nLooking at one's surrounding environment, the vast majority of visible objects are seen primarily by diffuse reflection from their surface. This holds with few exceptions, such as glass, reflective liquids, polished or smooth metals, glossy objects, and objects that themselves emit light: the Sun, lamps, and computer screens (which, however, emit \"diffuse\" light). Outdoors it is the same, with perhaps the exception of a transparent water stream or of the iridescent colors of a beetle. Additionally, Rayleigh scattering is responsible for the blue color of the sky, and Mie scattering for the white color of the water droplets of clouds.\n\nLight scattered from the surfaces of objects is by far the primary light which humans visually observe.\n\n\"Diffuse interreflection\" is a process whereby light reflected from an object strikes other objects in the surrounding area, illuminating them. Diffuse interreflection specifically describes light reflected from objects which are not shiny or specular. In real life terms what this means is that light is reflected off non-shiny surfaces such as the ground, walls, or fabric, to reach areas not directly in view of a light source. If the diffuse surface is colored, the reflected light is also colored, resulting in similar coloration of surrounding objects.\n\nIn 3D computer graphics, diffuse interreflection is an important component of global illumination. There are a number of ways to model diffuse interreflection when rendering a scene. Radiosity and photon mapping are two commonly used methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "6274233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6274233", "title": "Encircled energy", "text": "Encircled energy\n\nThe optics term encircled energy refers to a measure of concentration of energy in an optical image, or projected laser at a given range. If a single star is brought to its sharpest focus by a lens giving the smallest image possible with that given lens (called a point spread function or PSF), calculation of the encircled energy of the resulting image gives the distribution of energy in that PSF. \n\nEncircled energy is calculated by first determining the total energy of the PSF over the full image plane, then determining the centroid of the PSF. Circles of increasing radius are then created at that centroid and the PSF energy within each circle is calculated and divided by the total energy. As the circle increases in radius, more of the PSF energy is enclosed, until the circle is sufficiently large to completely contain all the PSF energy. The encircled energy curve thus ranges from zero to one. \n\nA typical criterion for encircled energy (EE) is the radius of the PSF at which either 50% or 80% of the energy is encircled. This is a linear dimension, typically in micrometers. When divided by the lens or mirror focal length, this gives the angular size of the PSF, typically expressed in arc-seconds when specifying astronomical optical system performance.\n\nEncircled energy is also used to quantify the spreading of a laser beam at a given distance. All laser beams spread due to the necessarily limited aperture of the optical system projecting the beam. As in star image PSF's, the linear spreading of the beam expressed as encircled energy is divided by the projection distance to give the angular spreading.\n\nAn alternative to encircled energy is ensquared energy, typically used when quantifying image sharpness for digital imaging cameras using pixels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21373601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21373601", "title": "Epstein–Barr virus latent membrane protein 1", "text": "Epstein–Barr virus latent membrane protein 1\n\nEpstein–Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is an Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) protein that regulates its own expression and the expression of human genes. LMP1 has a molecular weight of approximately 63 kDa, and its expression induces many of the changes associated with EBV infections and activation of primary B cells. \nLMP1 is the best-documented oncoprotein of the EBV latent gene products, as it is expressed in most EBV-related human cancers.\n\nThe structure of LMP1 consists of a short cytoplasmic N-terminus tail, six trans-membrane domains, and a long cytoplasmic C-terminus, which contains three activating domains: CTARt, CTAR2, and CTAR3. Each CTAR domain contains an amino acid sequence that serves as a recognition site for cellular adaptors to bind and trigger a series of signal transduction pathways that can lead to a change in gene expression.\n\nLMP-1 is a functional homologue of tumor necrosis factor and mediates signaling through the nuclear factor-κB pathway, mimicking CD40 receptor signaling.\n\nIt is often found in Reed–Sternberg cells.\n"}
{"id": "26885147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26885147", "title": "Evolution: The Story of Life", "text": "Evolution: The Story of Life\n\nEvolution: The Story of Life is a non-fiction book by Douglas Palmer.\n\n"}
{"id": "57645297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57645297", "title": "Explorer 23", "text": "Explorer 23\n\nExplorer 23 (also called S-55C) was an American satellite launched as part of Explorers program of the NASA. Explorer 23 was part of series S-55, being the last.\n\nExplorer 23 micrometeoroid satellite was the third in the series of S 55 micrometeoroid satellites orbited by NASA. Its purpose was to obtain data on the near-earth meteoroid environment, thus providing an accurate estimate of the probability of penetration in spacecraft structures by meteoroids and allowing a more confident definition of the penetration flux-material thickness relation to be derived. \n\nThe cylindrically shaped spacecraft, about , was built around the burned out fourth stage of the Scout launch vehicle, which remained as part of the orbiting satellite. Explorer 23 carried stainless steel pressurized-cell penetration detectors, impact detectors, and cadmium sulfide cell detectors to obtain data on the size, number, distribution, and momentum of dust particles in the near-earth environment. In addition, the spacecraft was designed to provide data on the effects of the space environment on the operation of capacitor penetration detectors and solar cell power supplies. The spacecraft mass, neglecting the fourth stage vehicle hardware and motor, was . \n\nThe spacecraft operated satisfactorily during its 1 year life (November 6, 1964, through November 7, 1965), and all mission objectives were accomplished, except for the cadmium sulfide cell detector experiment, which was damaged on liftoff and provided no data.\n\n"}
{"id": "57474046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57474046", "title": "Flags of regions of Egypt", "text": "Flags of regions of Egypt\n\nThis list of flags of regions of Egypt shows the flags of the 27 governorates of Egypt.\n\n"}
{"id": "24064987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24064987", "title": "GENtle", "text": "GENtle\n\nGENtle is a free software under GPL license.\n\nGENtle is an equivalent to the proprietary Vector NTI, a tool for molecular biologists to analyze and edit DNA sequence files. Invitrogens' removal of the free-of-cost academic licence for Vector NTI v11 has had a severe impact on many molecular biology labs that have come to rely on that tool, which led to vendor lock-in effects, which angered many molecular biologists. The GENtle code is developed and maintained by Magnus Manske. By design, GENtle is coded to be cross-platform utilizing wxGTK.\n"}
{"id": "6006775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6006775", "title": "Hangman's fracture", "text": "Hangman's fracture\n\n\"Hangman's fracture\" is the colloquial name given to a fracture of both pedicles or \"pars interarticularis\" of the \"axis vertebra\" (C2).\n\nThe injury mainly occurs from falls, usually in elderly adults, and motor accidents mainly due to impacts of high force causing extension of the neck and great axial load onto the C2 vertebra.\nIn a study based in Norway, 60% of reported cervical fractures came from falls and 21% from motor-related accidents.\nAccording to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), the group under the highest risk of C2 fractures are elderly people within the age group of 65-84 (39.02%) at risks of falls (61%) or motor accidents (21%) in metropolitan areas (94%). There were 203 discharges from the age group 1-17; 1,843 from 18- to 44-year-olds; 2,147 from 45- to 64-year-olds, 4,890 from 65- to 84-year-olds, and 3440 from 85+-year-olds. Females accounted for 54.45% of occurrences while males accounted for the other 45.38%.\n\nThe mechanism of the injury is forcible hyperextension of the head, usually with distraction of the neck. Traditionally this would occur during judicial hanging, when the noose was placed below the condemned subject's chin. When the subject was dropped, the head would be forced into hyperextension by the full weight of the body, a sufficient force to cause the fracture. However, despite its long association with judicial hangings, one study of a series of such hangings showed that only a small minority of hangings produced a hangman's fracture.\n\nApart from hangings, the mechanism of injury—a sudden forceful hyperextension centered just under the chin—occurs mainly with deceleration injuries in which the victim's face or chin strike an unyielding object with the neck in extension. The most common scenario is a frontal motor vehicle accident with an unrestrained passenger or driver, with the person striking the dashboard or windshield with their face or chin. Other scenarios include falls, diving injuries, and collisions between players in contact sports.\n\nAlthough a hangman's fracture is unstable, survival from this fracture is relatively common, as the fracture itself tends to expand the spinal canal at the C2 level. It is not unusual for patients to walk in for treatment and have such a fracture discovered on X-rays. Only if the force of the injury is severe enough that the vertebral body of C2 is severely subluxed from C3 does the spinal cord become crushed, usually between the vertebral body of C3 and the posterior elements of C1 and C2.\n\nMost commonly this can occur during a car accident. A person involved in a car crash, especially with no seat belt, can slam their chin against the steering wheel, dashboard, or windshield, causing the hyperextension to occur.\n\nFalling and colliding with other people in a contact sport can also cause this fracture. Falling causes the weight of the body to force hyperextension. In full-contact sports such as American football and Rugby, diving for the ball can lead a player to land on his head, forcing the neck into hyperextension. The further piling of players on top of an injured player adds more weight and can lead to further occurrences of this fracture.\n\nHangman's fractures treatments are both non-surgical and surgical . \n\nSasso also studied that people who underwent surgical treatment will not be affected by pin site infections, brain abscesses, facet joint stiffness, loss of spinal alignment, and skin breakdown. Another study concerns the surgical treatment of the ring of axis conducted by Barsa et al. (2006) based on 30 cases within 41 patients treated by using anterior cervical fixation and fusion and 11 cases treated by a posterior CT.\n\nAs a result, Barsa et al. showed that the result of fracture fusion reduced after one year but only one patient died of other disease during the follow-up. Hakalo and Wronski (2008) showed the benefits of operative treatment such as using transoral C2-C3 discectomy with plate-cage stabilization or posterior direct pars screw repair for the reducing and healing process.\n\nIn deliberate or suicidal hanging, asphyxia is much more likely to be the cause of death due to associated prevertebral swelling.\n\nA common sign is a constricted pupil (Horner's syndrome) on the ipsilateral side due to loss of sympathetic innervation to the eye, caused by damage to the sympathetic trunk in the neck.\n\nThe C2 fracture accounts for nearly 19% of all spinal fractures and 55% of cervical fractures. Within C2 fractures, the hangman's fracture accounts for 23% of occurrences while the odontoid or dens fracture accounts for 55% of them.\n\nStatistics from the AHRQ show that there were 12,532 hospital discharges from C2 fractures in the US during 2010. The mean healthcare costs were $17,015 and the \"national bill\" or the aggregate charges were $749,553,403. Only 460 in-hospital deaths related to the C2 fracture occurred. From 2000 to 2010, the number of discharges has increased from 4,875 to 12,532, almost a 250 percent increase. Mean health care costs went from $24,771 to $59,939.\n"}
{"id": "57550750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57550750", "title": "Hazel Rossotti", "text": "Hazel Rossotti\n\nHazel Rosotti (born 1 February 1930) is a British chemist and science writer.\n\nRossotti (née Marsh) completed her undergraduate and PhD at the University of Oxford. Her research considered the stability of metal-ion complexes, and she worked under the supervision of Robert Williams. She was a tutorial fellow until she graduated in 1948. In 1952 she married fellow chemist Francis Rossotti, a fellow graduate student, at St Peter's-in-the-East.\n\nIn 1962 Rossotti was appointed a Fellow and Tutor at St Anne's College, Oxford, and retired in 1997. She was an advisor to Mary Archer. Rossotti is an Honorary Fellow at St Anne's College, Oxford.\n\nShe has published several science books, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "9995176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9995176", "title": "Health and Retirement Study", "text": "Health and Retirement Study\n\nThe Health and Retirement Study (HRS) is a longitudinal survey of a representative sample of Americans over age 50 conducted by the Survey Research Center (SCR) at the Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor and supported by the National Institute on Aging (NIA). The study interviews approximately 20,000 respondents every two years on subjects like health care, housing, assets, pensions, employment and disability. The study is managed through a cooperative agreement (NIA U01AG009740) between the NIA, which provides primary funding, and the ISR, which administers and conducts the survey. Beginning in 2012, HRS began adding genetic information from consenting participants to its database. The economic measures captured by the data in the HRS are regarded as being of very high quality. \n\nThe HRS is designed to inform the national retirement discussion as the population ages. The inspiration for the HRS emerged in the mid-1980s, when scientists at NIA and elsewhere recognized the need for a new national survey of America’s expanding older population. By that time, it had become clear that the mainstay of retirement research, the Retirement History Study (RHS), conducted from 1969 to 1979, was no longer adequately addressing contemporary retirement issues. For example, the RHS sample underrepresented women, Blacks, and Hispanics who, by the mid-1980s were a growing part of the labor force. The RHS also did not ask about health or physical or mental function, all of which can affect the decision and ability to retire. Moreover, research on the retirement process was fragmented, with economists, sociologists, psychologists, epidemiologists, demographers, and biomedical researchers proposing and conducting studies within their own \"silos,\" often without regard to the relevant research activities of other disciplines.\n\nDetermining that a new approach was needed, an Ad Hoc Advisory Panel was convened by the National Institute on Aging. In early 1988 the panel recommended the initiation of a new, long-term study to examine the ways in which older adults’ changing health interacts with social, economic, and psychological factors and retirement decisions. Government experts and academic researchers from diverse disciplines were recruited to collaboratively create and design the study. Ultimately, relevant executive agencies and the United States Congress recognized the value of this major social science investment, and the HRS was established.\nMany individuals and institutions have contributed to the planning, design, development, and ongoing administration of the study. This includes the study’s leadership at the Institute for Social Research, specifically the first HRS Director, F. Thomas Juster, who led the effort to initiate the HRS, Robert J. Willis, the Director from 1995 to 2007, and David R. Weir, the current Director. HRS relies on the contributions of the HRS co-investigators, a multidisciplinary group of leading academic researchers at the University of Michigan and other institutions nationwide, a steering committee and working groups, which have provided critical advice about the study’s design and monitored its progress, and the NIA-HRS Data Monitoring Committee, an advisory group of independent members of the academic research community and representatives of agencies interested in the study. \n\nIn addition, the Social Security Administration has provided technical advice and substantial support for the study. Over the HRS’s history, other important contributors have included the United States Department of Labor’s Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, the United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, and the State of Florida.\n\nThe HRS has a number of sister studies in other countries. In recent years, the HRS has been extended to several Asian countries, including Korea (the Korean Longitudinal Study of Aging or KLoSA), Japan (the Japanese Study of Aging and Retirement or JSTAR), China (the Chinese Health and Retirement Survey or CHARLS), India (The Longitudinal Aging Study in India or LASI) and New Zealand (Health, Work and Retirement Study). Population aging is very rapid in Asia and India and China alone will have more than one billion people over age 60 during this century. CHARLS is headed by a team at the Chinese Center for Economic Research (CCER) at Peking University under the direction of Professor Zhao Yaohui. LASI is jointly headed by a team from Harvard University under the direction of Professor David Bloom and the International Institute of Population Studies (IIPS) in Mumbai India. Both CHARLS and LASI were awarded peer review grants to conduct pilot studies by the National Institute of Aging in the United States. Other studies include:\n\nThe Gateway to Global Aging Data, a resource that facilitates the use and harmonization of the different datasets of HRS and sister studies in other countries has been developed with support of the National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health (RC2 AG036619-01 and R01 AG030153)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46197689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46197689", "title": "Holmberg 15A", "text": "Holmberg 15A\n\nHolmberg 15A is a supergiant elliptical galaxy and the central dominant galaxy of the Abell 85 galaxy cluster in the constellation Cetus, about 700 million light-years from Earth. It was discovered c. 1937 by Erik Holmberg. It briefly shot to fame when it was reported to have the largest core ever observed in a galaxy, spanning some 15,000 light years, however this was subsequently refuted.\n\nIt has been alleged that the primary component of the galactic core is a supermassive black hole with a mass of 10 billion , although no direct measurement has yet been acquired. Previous estimates by Lauer \"et al\" have jointed a mass value as high as 310 billion using the gamma ray point break radius method. Kormendy and Bender gave a value of 260 billion in a 2009 paper. Lower estimates were given by Kormendy and Ho \"et al\" in 2013 at 2.1 and 9.2 billion . The paper by Lopez-Cruz \"et al\" stated: \"Therefore, we conservatively suggest that Holm 15A hosts an SMBH with M• ∼ 1 M⊙\". Kormendy and Ho \"et al\" derived these equations using the M-sigma relation and the size of the outer bulge of the galaxy, which are indirect estimates. Rusli \"et al\" derived a value of 170 billion using break radius methodology. In addition, Abell 85 has its velocity dispersion of dark matter halo at ~750 km/s, which could only be explained by a black hole with a mass greater than 150 billion , although Kormendy and Ho \"et al\" stated that \"dark matter halos are scale-free, and the SMBH-dark matter coevolution is independent from the effects of baryons\". This makes it one of the most massive black holes ever discovered.\n"}
{"id": "802149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=802149", "title": "Indian rhinoceros", "text": "Indian rhinoceros\n\nThe Indian rhinoceros (\"Rhinoceros unicornis\"), also called the greater one-horned rhinoceros and great Indian rhinoceros, is a rhinoceros native to the Indian subcontinent. It is listed as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List, as populations are fragmented and restricted to less than . Moreover, the extent and quality of the rhino's most important habitat, alluvial grassland and riverine forest, is considered to be in decline due to human and livestock encroachment. As of 2008, a total of 2,575 mature individuals were estimated to live in the wild.\n\nThe Indian rhinoceros once ranged throughout the entire stretch of the Indo-Gangetic Plain, but excessive hunting and agricultural development reduced their range drastically to 11 sites in northern India and southern Nepal. In the early 1990s, between 1,870 and 1,895 rhinos were estimated to have been alive.\n\nIn 1758, Carl Linnaeus first described a rhinoceros with one horn under the name \"Rhinoceros unicornis\". As type locality, he indicated Africa and India.\n\nThe one-horned rhinoceros is monotypic. Several specimens were described since the end of the 18th century under different scientific names, which are all considered synonyms of \"Rhinoceros unicornis\" today:\n\nThe modern scientific designation \"Rhinoceros unicornis\" is adopted from the Greek: ρινό- (\"rhino-\" — nose) and -κερος (\"-keros\" — horn of an animal) and Latin: \"uni-\" meaning single and \"-cornis\" meaning horn. \n\nAncestral rhinoceroses first diverged from other perissodactyls in the Early Eocene. Mitochondrial DNA comparison suggests the ancestors of modern rhinos split from the ancestors of Equidae around 50 million years ago. The extant family, the Rhinocerotidae, first appeared in the Late Eocene in Eurasia, and the ancestors of the extant rhino species dispersed from Asia beginning in the Miocene.\n\nFossils of \"R. unicornis\" appear in the Middle Pleistocene. In the Pleistocene, the genus \"Rhinoceros\" ranged throughout South and Southeast Asia, with specimens located on Sri Lanka. Into the Holocene, some rhinoceros lived as far west as Gujarat and Pakistan until as recently as 3,200 years ago.\n\nThe Indian and Javan rhinoceroses, the only members of the genus \"Rhinoceros\", first appear in the fossil record in Asia around 1.6 million–3.3 million years ago. Molecular estimates, however, suggest the species may have diverged much earlier, around 11.7 million years ago. Although belonging to the type genus, the Indian and Javan rhinoceroses are not believed to be closely related to other rhino species. Different studies have hypothesized that they may be closely related to the extinct \"Gaindatherium\" or \"Punjabitherium\". A detailed cladistic analysis of the Rhinocerotidae placed \"Rhinoceros\" and the extinct \"Punjabitherium\" in a clade with \"Dicerorhinus\", the Sumatran rhinoceros. Other studies have suggested the Sumatran rhinoceros is more closely related to the two African species. The Sumatran rhino may have diverged from the other Asian rhinos as long as 15 million years ago.\n\nThe Indian rhinoceros has a thick grey-brown skin with pinkish skin folds and a black horn. Its upper legs and shoulders are covered in wart-like bumps. It has very little body hair, aside from eyelashes, ear fringes and tail brush. Males have huge neck folds. Its skull is heavy with a basal length above and an occiput above . Its nasal horn is slightly back-curved with a base of about by that rapidly narrows until a smooth, even stem part begins about above base. In captive animals, the horn is frequently worn down to a thick knob.\n\nThe rhino's single horn is present in both males and females, but not on newborn young. The black horn is pure keratin, like human fingernails, and starts to show after about six years. In most adults, the horn reaches a length of about , but has been recorded up to in length and weight .\n\nAmong terrestrial land mammals native to Asia, the Indian rhinoceros is second in size only to the Asian elephant. It is also the second-largest living rhinoceros, behind only the white rhinoceros. Males have a head and body length of with a shoulder height of , while females have a head and body length of and a shoulder height of . The male, averaging about is heavier than the female, at an average of about .\n\nThe rich presence of blood vessels underneath the tissues in folds gives it the pinkish colour. The folds in the skin increase the surface area and help in regulating the body temperature. The thick skin does not protect against bloodsucking \"Tabanus\" flies, leeches and ticks.\n\nThe largest sized specimens range up to .\nThe one-horned rhinoceros once ranged across the entire northern part of the Indian Subcontinent, along the Indus, Ganges and Brahmaputra River basins, from Pakistan to the Indian-Myanmar border, including Bangladesh and the southern parts of Nepal and Bhutan. It may have also occurred in Myanmar, southern China and Indochina. It inhabits the alluvial grasslands of the Terai and the Brahmaputra basin. As a result of habitat destruction and climatic changes its range has gradually been reduced so that by the 19th century, it only survived in the Terai grasslands of southern Nepal, northern Uttar Pradesh, northern Bihar, northern West Bengal, and in the Brahmaputra Valley of Assam.\n\nThe species was present in northern Bihar and Oudh at least until 1770 as indicated in maps produced by Colonel Gentil. On the former abundance of the species, Thomas C. Jerdon wrote in 1867:\nToday, its range has further shrunk to a few pockets in southern Nepal, northern West Bengal, and the Brahmaputra Valley. In the 1980s, rhinos were frequently seen in the narrow plain area of Royal Manas National Park in Bhutan. Today, they are restricted to habitats surrounded by human-dominated landscapes, so that they often occur in adjacent cultivated areas, pastures, and secondary forests.\n\nThe Indian rhinoceros is regionally extinct in Pakistan.\n\nIn 2006, the total population was estimated to be 2,575 individuals, of which 2,200 lived in Indian protected areas:\nIn 2000, about 2,000 rhinos were estimated in Assam. Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary shelters the highest density of Indian rhinos in the world — with 84 individuals in 2009 in an area of .\nBy 2014, the population in Assam increased to 2,544 rhinos, an increase by 27% since 2006, although more than 150 individuals were killed by poachers during these years.\n\nThe population in Nepal increased by 111 individuals from 2011 to 2015, increasing by 21%. The latest rhino count was conducted from 11 April to 2 May 2015 and revealed 645 individuals living in Parsa National Park, Chitwan National Park, Bardia National Park, Shuklaphanta Wildlife Reserve and respective buffer zones in the Terai Arc Landscape.\n\nIn Pakistan's Lal Suhanra National Park, two rhinos from Nepal were introduced in 1983 but have not bred so far.\n\nAdult male Indian rhinos are usually solitary. Groups consist of females with calves, or of up to six subadults. Such groups congregate at wallows and grazing areas. They are foremost active in early mornings, late afternoons and at night, but rest during hot days.\nThey are excellent swimmers and can run at speeds of up to for short periods. They have excellent senses of hearing and smell, but relatively poor eyesight. Over 10 distinct vocalisations have been recorded. Males have home ranges of around that overlap each other. Dominant males tolerate males passing through their territories except when they are in mating season, when dangerous fights break out.\nIndian rhinos bathe regularly. The folds in their skin trap water and hold it even when they come back on land.\n\nIndian rhinos have few natural enemies, except for tigers, which sometimes kill unguarded calves, but adult rhinos are less vulnerable due to their size. Mynahs and egrets both eat invertebrates from the rhino's skin and around its feet. \"Tabanus\" flies, a type of horse-fly, are known to bite rhinos. The rhinos are also vulnerable to diseases spread by parasites such as leeches, ticks, and nematodes. Anthrax and the blood-disease septicemia are known to occur.\nIn March 2017, of a group of four tigers consisting of an adult male, female and two cubs killed a 20-year-old male rhino in the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve.\n\nIndian rhinoceros are grazers. Their diets consist almost entirely of grasses, but they also eat leaves, branches of shrubs and trees, fruits, and submerged and floating aquatic plants. \nThey feed in the mornings and evenings. They use their semi-prehensile lips to grasp grass stems, bend the stem down, bite off the top, and then eat the grass. They tackle very tall grasses or saplings by walking over the plant, with legs on both sides and using the weight of their bodies to push the end of the plant down to the level of the mouth. Mothers also use this technique to make food edible for their calves. They drink for a minute or two at a time, often imbibing water filled with rhinoceros urine.\n\nThe Indian rhinoceros forms a variety of social groupings. Adult males are generally solitary, except for mating and fighting. Adult females are largely solitary when they are without calves. Mothers will stay close to their calves for up to four years after their birth, sometimes allowing an older calf to continue to accompany her once a newborn calf arrives. Subadult males and females form consistent groupings, as well. Groups of two or three young males will often form on the edge of the home ranges of dominant males, presumably for protection in numbers. Young females are slightly less social than the males. Indian rhinos also form short-term groupings, particularly at forest wallows during the monsoon season and in grasslands during March and April. Groups of up to 10 rhinos may gather in wallows—typically a dominant male with females and calves, but no subadult males.\n\nThe Indian rhinoceros makes a wide variety of vocalisations. At least 10 distinct vocalisations have been identified: snorting, honking, bleating, roaring, squeak-panting, moo-grunting, shrieking, groaning, rumbling and humphing. In addition to noises, the rhino uses olfactory communication. Adult males urinate backwards, as far as 3–4 m behind them, often in response to being disturbed by observers. Like all rhinos, the Indian rhinoceros often defecates near other large dung piles. The Indian rhino has pedal scent glands which are used to mark their presence at these rhino latrines. Males have been observed walking with their heads to the ground as if sniffing, presumably following the scent of females.\nIn aggregations, Indian rhinos are often friendly. They will often greet each other by waving or bobbing their heads, mounting flanks, nuzzling noses, or licking. Rhinos will playfully spar, run around, and play with twigs in their mouths. Adult males are the primary instigators in fights. Fights between dominant males are the most common cause of rhino mortality, and males are also very aggressive toward females during courtship. Males will chase females over long distances and even attack them face-to-face. Unlike African rhinos, the Indian rhino fights with its incisors, rather than its horns.\n\nCaptive males breed at five years of age, but wild males attain dominance much later when they are larger. In one five-year field study, only one rhino estimated to be younger than 15 years mated successfully. Captive females breed as young as four years of age, but in the wild, they usually start breeding only when six years old, which likely indicates they need to be large enough to avoid being killed by aggressive males. Their gestation period is around 15.7 months, and birth interval ranges from 34–51 months.\n\nIn captivity, four rhinos are known to have lived over 40 years, the oldest living to be 47.\n\nSport hunting became common in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Indian rhinos were hunted relentlessly and persistently. Reports from the middle of the 19th century claim that some British military officers in Assam individually shot more than 200 rhinos. By 1908, the population in Kaziranga had decreased to around 12 individuals. In the early 1900s, the species had declined to near extinction.\n\nPoaching for rhinoceros horn became the single most important reason for the decline of the Indian rhino after conservation measures were put in place from the beginning of the 20th century, when legal hunting ended. From 1980 to 1993, 692 rhinos were poached in India. In India's Laokhowa Wildlife Sanctuary, 41 rhinos were killed in 1983, virtually the entire population of the sanctuary. By the mid-1990s, poaching had rendered the species extinct there.\n\nIn 1950, Chitwan’s forest and grasslands extended over more than and were home to about 800 rhinos. When poor farmers from the mid-hills moved to the Chitwan Valley in search of arable land, the area was subsequently opened for settlement, and poaching of wildlife became rampant. The Chitwan population has repeatedly been jeopardized by poaching; in 2002 alone, poachers killed 37 animals to saw off and sell their valuable horns.\n\nSix methods of killing rhinos have been recorded:\n\nPoaching, mainly for the use of the horn in traditional Chinese medicine, has remained a constant and has led to decreases in several important populations. Apart from this, serious declines in quality of habitat have occurred in some areas, due to:\nThe species is inherently at risk because over 70% of its population occurs at a single site, Kaziranga National Park. Any catastrophic event such as disease, civil disorder, poaching, or habitat loss would have a devastating impact on the Indian rhino's status. However, small population of rhinos may be prone to inbreeding depression.\n\n\"Rhinoceros unicornis\" has been listed in CITES Appendix I since 1975. The Indian and Nepalese governments have taken major steps towards Indian rhinoceros conservation, especially with the help of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and other non-governmental organizations. In the early 1980s, a rhino translocation scheme was initiated. The first pair of rhinos was reintroduced from Nepal's Terai to Pakistan's Lal Suhanra National Park in Punjab in 1982.\n\nIn 1910, all rhino hunting in India became prohibited. In 1984, five rhinos were relocated to Dudhwa National Park — four from the fields outside the Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary and one from Goalpara.\n\nIn 1957, the country's first conservation law ensured the protection of rhinos and their habitat. In 1959, Edward Pritchard Gee undertook a survey of the Chitwan Valley, and recommended the creation of a protected area north of the Rapti River and of a wildlife sanctuary south of the river for a trial period of 10 years. After his subsequent survey of Chitwan in 1963, he recommended extension of the sanctuary to the south. By the end of the 1960s, only 95 rhinos remained in the Chitwan Valley. The dramatic decline of the rhino population and the extent of poaching prompted the government to institute the \"Gaida Gasti\" – a rhino reconnaissance patrol of 130 armed men and a network of guard posts all over Chitwan. To prevent the extinction of rhinos, the Chitwan National Park was gazetted in December 1970, with borders delineated the following year and established in 1973, initially encompassing an area of . Since 1973, the population has recovered well and increased to 645 animals in 2015. To ensure the survival of rhinos in case of epidemics, animals were translocated annually from Chitwan to the Bardia National Park and the Sukla Phanta Wildlife Reserve since 1986.\n\nThe Indian rhinoceros was initially difficult to breed in captivity. The first recorded captive birth of a rhinoceros was in Kathmandu in 1826, but another successful birth did not occur for nearly 100 years. In 1925, a rhino was born in Kolkata. No rhinoceros was successfully bred in Europe until 1956. On September 14, 1956, Rudra was born in Zoo Basel, Switzerland. In the second half of the 20th century, zoos became adept at breeding Indian rhinoceros. By 1983, nearly 40 babies had been born in captivity. As of 2012, 33 Indian rhinos were born at Zoo Basel, which means that most animals kept in a zoo are somehow related to the population in the zoo of Basel, Switzerland. Due to the success of Zoo Basel's breeding program, the International Studbook for the species has been kept there since 1972. Since 1990, the Indian rhino European Endangered Species Programme is being coordinated there, as well, which ensures that the captive global Indian rhinoceros population stays genetically as healthy as possible. As of 2010, 174 rhinos are kept in zoos worldwide.\n\nIn June 2009, an Indian rhino was artificially inseminated using sperm collected four years previously and cryopreserved at the Cincinnati Zoo’s CryoBioBank before being thawed and used. She gave birth to a male calf in October 2010. The calf died 12 hours after birth.\n\nIn June 2014, the first \"successful\" live-birth from an artificially inseminated rhino took place at the Buffalo Zoo in New York. As in Cincinnati, cryopreserved sperm was used to produce the female calf, Monica.\n\nThe Rhinoceros Sutra is an early text in the Buddhist tradition, found in both the Gandhāran Buddhist texts and the Pali Canon. It praises the solitary lifestyle and stoicism of the Indian rhinoceros and encourages readers to emulate these virtues.\n\nIn China's ancient novel Journey to the West, when Tripitaka (Sanzang) and his crew travel nearer to the region of India (named as Tian Zu back then). 3 Indian Rhino demons: King of Cold Protection (辟寒大王), King of Heat Protection (辟暑大王) and King of Dust Protection (辟塵大王) whom were based in Xuanying Cave (玄英洞), Azure Dragon Mountain (青龍山) in Jinping Prefecture (金平府). They disguise themselves as Taoist deities and steal aromatic oil from lamps in a temple, tricking worshippers into believing that the \"deities\" have accepted the oil offered to them.\n\nThe Indian rhinoceros was the first rhino widely known outside its range. The first rhinoceros to reach Europe in modern times arrived in Lisbon on May 20, 1515. King Manuel I of Portugal planned to send the rhinoceros to Pope Leo X, but the rhino perished in a shipwreck. Before dying, the rhino had been sketched by an unknown artist.\n\nThe German artist Albrecht Dürer saw the sketches and descriptions and carved a woodcut of the rhino, known ever after as\" Dürer's Rhinoceros\". Though the drawing had some anatomical inaccuracies (notably the hornlet protruding from the rhino's shoulder), his sketch became the enduring image of a rhinoceros in western culture for centuries.\n\nThe British public had their first chance to view a rhinoceros (presumably this species) in 1683; it unknowingly caused a political row when the notorious Judge Jeffreys, in one of his lighter moments, spread a rumour that his chief rival, Lord Guildford, had been seen riding on it.\n\nA steatite seal, popularly known as Pashupati Seal (around 2350–2000 BC) was discovered at the Mohenjo-daro archaeological site in 1928–29 of the Indus Valley Civilization. It has a human figure at the center seated on a platform and the human figure is surrounded by four wild animals: an elephant and a tiger to its one side, and a water buffalo and a rhinoceros on the other.\n\nRhinoceros is Vahana of Hindu Goddess Dhavdi. There is a temple dedicated to Maa (Mother) Dhavdi in Dhrangadhra, Gujarat.\n\nMany the mythological stories e.g. a boy named Rishyasringa with the horns of a deer, Karkadann, unicorn etc. may be inspired by Indian Rhinoceros.\n\nThe Assam state of India uses the one-horned rhino as its official state animal. It is also the organizational logo for Assam Oil Company Ltd.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51991052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51991052", "title": "J band (infrared)", "text": "J band (infrared)\n\nIn infrared astronomy, the J band refers to an atmospheric transmission window (1.1 to 1.4 um) centred on 1.25 micrometres (in the near-infrared). \n\nBetelgeuse is the brightest near-IR source in the sky with a J band magnitude of −2.99. The next brightest stars in the J band are Antares (−2.7), R Doradus (−2.6), Arcturus (−2.2), and Aldebaran (−2.1). In the J band Sirius is the 9th brightest star.\n"}
{"id": "25220514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25220514", "title": "Jethro Leadership Management Institute", "text": "Jethro Leadership Management Institute\n\nJethro Leadership Management Institute (Jethro-lmi) is a leadership and management institution based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.\n\nJethro-lmi is an educational and training center that provides a leadership and management skill development program for organizations (private, government not-profit) and individuals across the country and abroad. The institution's main service areas include: short-term leadership & management development training, international qualifications and certification programs, and overseas MBA and consultancy services.\n\nJethro-lmi is an Authorized Training Partner with Institute of Certified Professional Managers (ICPM), which is a business center of James Madison University located in Harrisonburg, Virginia, United States, to provide Certified Manager (CM) program in Ethiopia.\n\nBeside International Professional Qualification Certifications, Jethro-LMI provides more than 200 short-Term trainings, Research and management consultancy services. The Institute provides short term training courses for Privet, Government and NGO sectors with the main categories: Banking, Microfinance, Insurance, Construction Engineering, Manufacturing Companies, Development and humanitarian organizations\n\n"}
{"id": "2025059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025059", "title": "Josef Ladislav Píč", "text": "Josef Ladislav Píč\n\nJosef Ladislav Píč (January 19, 1847 in Mšeno near Mělník – December 19, 1911 in Prague) was Czech archaeologist and paleontologist, one of founders of modern Czech archaeology.\n\nPíč studied history and Slavic languages at the Charles University in Prague (then called \"Karl-Ferdinand University\"). In 1883, he became docent of history at the university. Since 1893, he was named custodian and later director of archeologic collection at the National Museum (then named \"České museum\") in Prague. Píč created and maintained collection prehistoric artefacts. His major literary work was \"Starožitnosti země české\" (1899–1909), in three parts, about ancient history of Czech lands.\n\nExhaustion, conflicts with colleagues about his work and involvement in fights over validity of \"Rukopis královédvorský a zelenohorský\" drove him to suicide.\n"}
{"id": "33803336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33803336", "title": "List of lakes of the Sawtooth Mountains (Idaho)", "text": "List of lakes of the Sawtooth Mountains (Idaho)\n\nThere are hundreds of lakes in the Sawtooth Mountains, most of which have been created by alpine glaciers. The majority of the lakes are within the Sawtooth Wilderness, but several are not yet still within Sawtooth National Recreation Area The largest lakes are Redfish, Alturas, Pettit, Yellow Belly, Stanley, and Sawtooth lakes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7120258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7120258", "title": "List of volcanoes in Spain", "text": "List of volcanoes in Spain\n\nThis is a list of active and extinct volcanoes in Spain.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are several volcanic areas in mainland Spain, such as:\n\nThere are 40 volcanoes at the \"comarca\" of the Garrotxa, 38 of which are part of the Garrotxa Volcanic Zone Natural Park.\nAdditionally, there are at least seven other volcanoes located in the Province of Girona:\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "12117291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12117291", "title": "Maintenance engineering", "text": "Maintenance engineering\n\nMaintenance Engineering is the discipline and profession of applying engineering concepts for the optimization of equipment, procedures, and departmental budgets to achieve better maintainability, reliability, and availability of equipment.\n\nMaintenance, and hence maintenance engineering, is increasing in importance due to rising amounts of equipment, systems, machineries and infrastructure. Since the Industrial Revolution, devices, equipment, machinery and structures have grown increasingly complex, requiring a host of personnel, vocations and related systems needed to maintain them. Prior to 2006, the United States spent approximately US$300 billion annually on plant maintenance and operations alone.\nMaintenance is to ensure a unit is fit for purpose, with maximum availability at minimum costs.\nA person practicing Maintenance Engineering is known as a Maintenance Engineer.\n\nA Maintenance Engineer should possess significant knowledge of statistics, probability and logistics, and additionally in the fundamentals of the operation of the equipment and machinery he or she is responsible for.\n\nA Maintenance Engineer shall also possess high interpersonal, communication, and management skills, as well as the ability to make decisions quickly.\n\nTypical responsibilities include:\n\nInstitutions across the world have recognised the need for Maintenance Engineering. Maintenance Engineers usually hold a degree in Mechanical Engineering, Industrial Engineering, or other Engineering Disciplines. In recent years specialised bachelor and master courses have developed. The Bachelor Degree program in Maintenance Engineering at the German-Jordanian University in Amman is addressing the need, as well as the Bachelor Programme in Maintenance Engineering at Luleå University of Technology. With an increased demand for Chartered Engineers, The University of Central Lancashire in United Kingdom has developed a MSc in Maintenance Engineering currently under accreditation with the Institution of Engineering and Technology and a Top-up Bachelor of Engineering with honour degree for technicians holding a Higher National Diploma and seeking a progression in their professional career.\n\n\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20110710024804/http://www.gju.edu.jo/page.aspx?id=36&type=s&lng=en&page=159\n"}
{"id": "58361329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58361329", "title": "Margaret Clark Gillett", "text": "Margaret Clark Gillett\n\nMargaret Clark Gillett (1878-1962) was a British botanist and social reformer who is noted for advocating for women and children held in concentration camps following the Boer War. In February 1909 she married banker Arthur Bevington Gillett (1875-1954).\n"}
{"id": "18546904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18546904", "title": "MathPath", "text": "MathPath\n\nMathPath is a mathematics enrichment summer program for students ages 11–14 (middle school age in the US). It is four weeks long, and moves to a different location each year. MathPath is visited by world-renowned mathematicians such as John H. Conway and Francis Su.\nIt was probably the original, and is still one of the few, international residential high-end summer camps exclusively for mathematics and exclusively for students of middle school age.\n\nMathPath was founded in 2002 by George Rubin Thomas, who had previously founded Mathcamp for high school students and has since founded Epsilon Camp for children age 7–11 (in 2011, originally aged 8-11) and Delta Camp for children 6 and 7 (in 2014 and 2015, now merged with Epsilon Camp). His goal was to inspire and advance the most mathematically gifted middle school age students, through a summer camp.\n\nAcademic out-of-school-programs for gifted students in grades 7 and 8 have existed for many years. They identified the students and placed them in suitable summer programs. Johns Hopkins University and Duke University have been leaders in the endeavor. Typically they chose students who were in the top 0.5%, 2% and the like from nationally recognized achievement tests.\n\nGeorge Rubin Thomas, a former college professor and then Executive Director of Mathcamp, one of the leading summer programs for mathematically talented high school students, saw the need for an intense program similar to Mathcamp but designed for students in grades 6 through 8. He recognized that, as in music, training suited to the very gifted should be provided at an early age. He saw that such training must go beyond the narrow focus at standard programs for the gifted and talented, and have a balanced approach to the several aspects of mathematical development of the high IQ young student, more balance than can be achieved at problem-solving-focus workshops in the various countries. He first proposed the idea to two fellow mathematicians with whom he ran Mathcamp. They said they did not have the time to be involved in yet another camp and that Thomas could start one if he liked. Starting a large national summer program is financially risky. Thomas, not wanting to jeopardise Mathcamp, struck out on his own. He discussed the idea with many mathematicians, and educators of gifted students. Among those were John Conway of Princeton University and Titu Andreescu, then Executive Director of the American Mathematics Competitions. The encouragement he received prompted him to consult the parents of the very gifted. Their strong endorsement pushed the launch of this summer workshop. The name Mathpath was suggested by Professor John Conway. From the first camp in 2002, Conway has taught at the program. The quality of the program was helped immensely by Professors Stephen Maurer, who joined the program in 2003, and Paul Zeitz, who joined in 2004.\n\nThe program is dedicated to nurturing emerging mathematical talent by providing a month-long summer gathering place - a place that has the highest residential standards, instructional programs suited to the extremely gifted, and developmental opportunities, both academic and social.\n\nIt was found that a suitable location for a program for the highly gifted young students would benefit from proximity to nature as well as opportunities for weekend trips. Black Hills State University in Spearfish, South Dakota, was selected as a suitable campus for the first camp.\n\nThe thrust of the program is four-fold: Teach how to write in mathematics, inculcate the importance of proof, familiarize the heuristics of problem solving, and provide a unified view of mathematics and its culture through its historical development. Some of the world's top experts who educate the brightest young students would teach at Mathpath.\n\nMathPath is now a non-profit organization run by a team of mathematicians and high school and middle school teachers of students gifted in mathematics. Thus, as happened to its sibling program Mathcamp, Mathpath too passed on to the mathematics community.\n\nMore information\n\nAt MathPath, students learn about many math topics that are rarely taught in American schools, or taught in much depth, such as non-Euclidean geometry, advanced Euclidean geometry, number theory, combinatorics, induction, spherical trigonometry, mathematical origami, and the mathematics of card shuffling. They also learn some history of math and work on mathematical writing. Topics vary somewhat each year, depending on instructor interest. As well, students have the opportunity to prepare for contests such as MATHCOUNTS, AMC, or AIME.\n\nThe emphasis throughout is on \"enrichment\", not \"acceleration\". Thus no effort is made to place students out of their next school course, and when topics are taught which are elective university courses (e.g., number theory) the purpose is to give a good understanding of the issues and key ideas and methods, not to cover the entire university course. Covering a whole university course would be difficult, even at the rapid MathPath rate, since MathPath courses are only a week long.\n\nAlthough much of the day is spent learning mathematics, there is deliberately more free time than at high school math camps. Also, students regularly go on weekend day trips and visit the surrounding area's attractions.\n\nRegular staff are those who come almost every year. Usually they come for 2–4 weeks, but a few come for only one week. Most of the regular staff members have an in-camp nickname.\n\nVisiting staff are participants for one year or occasional years. Usually they attend for one week, or for a day or two to give a few lectures. Often they are faculty at the host institution or nearby institutions. Below is a sampling of guest staff from recent years. For more recent information see The MathPath Faculty Webpage; A new version with a new year number is put up a few months before each summer's program.\n\n\nNOTE: Every year's schedule varies slightly (around 15 minutes). Look on the MathPath website (www.mathpath.org) for the exact schedule for the year.\n\nOn Saturday, the afternoon activities are a little different.\nOn weekends, students usually go on a day trip to the surrounding attractions or participate in other activities, such as biking, white water rafting, rock climbing, or hiking. Chess, ping pong, pool, Rubik's Cube, Set and Magic: The gathering tournaments are played and organized during the students' free time.\n\nMathPath is selective. The primary criterion for admission is the applicant's work on the yearly Qualifying Test. One begins the application process by filling out an online information form. An academic and nonacademic reference are also required. Admission is done on a rolling basis. For details, see How to Apply. Also available: financial aid, merit scholarships for high scores on various competitions, and fee reductions for paying early and for siblings attending in the same year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3696152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3696152", "title": "Mathematical challenges", "text": "Mathematical challenges\n\nMathematical challenges generally refer to more basic mathematics such as that experienced in elementary or junior high school, but can extend to any realm of the study. It is commonly accepted that mathematics is a difficult area of study. Even so, it is generally agreed that the difficulty experienced when one attempts to master a topic leads to meaningful, long lasting, rewards. There is a long list of mathematics competitions throughout the world.\n\nThere are a number of problems in pure mathematics with a cash prize offered for a successful solution. Often the problems are thought of as relevant areas of study in modern mathematical research. One example of such a mathematical challenge is the Riemann hypothesis which is currently an unsolved problem. The Riemann hypothesis is that all nontrivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function have a real part of . A proof or disproof of this would have far-reaching implications in number theory, especially for the distribution of prime numbers.\n\nThere are several professional organizations that collect various unsolved math problems and present them as mathematical challenges. Some collections are the:\n\nMathematical Challenge can also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "33526961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33526961", "title": "Mavirus virophage", "text": "Mavirus virophage\n\nMavirus virophage is a double stranded DNA virus that infects the marine phagotrophic flagellate \"Cafeteria roenbergensis\" in the presence of a second virus — Cafeteria roenbergensis virus. Mavirus can integrate into the genome of cells of C. roenbergensis, and thereby confer immunity to the population \n\nThe name is derived from Maverick virus.\n\nThe virophage was discovered by Matthias G. Fischer of the University of British Columbia while he was working on Cafeteria roenbergensis virus as part of his PhD.\n\nThe genome is 19,063 bases in length and encodes 20 predicted coding sequences. Seven have homology to the Maverick/Polinton family of transposons.\n\nThe genome encodes a retroviral integrase, an adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase), a cysteine protease and a protein primed DNA polymerase B.\n\nMavirus virophage is the type species of the genus \"Mavirus\" in the family \"Lavidaviridae\", which has been established by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "23317308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23317308", "title": "MilkyWay@home", "text": "MilkyWay@home\n\nMilkyWay@home is a volunteer distributed computing project in astrophysics running on the Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing (BOINC) platform. Using spare computing power from over 38,000 computers run by over 27,000 active volunteers , the MilkyWay@home project aims to generate accurate three-dimensional dynamic models of stellar streams in the immediate vicinity of the Milky Way. With SETI@home and Einstein@home, it is the third computing project of this type that has the investigation of phenomena in interstellar space as its primary purpose. Its secondary objective is to develop and optimize algorithms for distributed computing.\n\nMilkyWay@home is a collaboration between the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's departments of Computer Science and Physics, Applied Physics and Astronomy and is supported by the U.S. National Science Foundation. It is operated by a team that includes astrophysicist Heidi Jo Newberg and computer scientists Malik Magdon-Ismail, Bolesław Szymański and Carlos A. Varela.\n\nBy mid-2009 the project's main astrophysical interest is in the Sagittarius Stream, a stellar stream emanating from the Sagittarius Dwarf Spheroidal Galaxy which partially penetrates the space occupied by the Milky Way and is believed to be in an unstable orbit around it, probably after a close encounter or collision with the Milky Way which subjected it to strong galactic tide forces. Mapping such interstellar streams and their dynamics with high accuracy is expected to provide crucial clues for understanding the structure, formation, evolution, and gravitational potential distribution of the Milky Way and similar galaxies. It could also provide insight on the dark matter issue. As the project evolves, it might turn its attention to other star streams.\n\nUsing data from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, MilkyWay@home divides starfields into wedges of about 2.5 deg. width and applies self-optimizing probabilistic separation techniques (i.e., evolutionary algorithms) to extract the optimized tidal streams. The program then attempts to create a new, uniformly dense wedge of stars from the input wedge by removing streams of data. Each stream removed is characterized by six parameters: percent of stars in the stream; the angular position in the stripe; the three spatial components (two angles, plus the radial distance from Earth) defining the removed cylinder; and a measure of width. For each search, the server application keeps track of a population of individual stars, each of which is attached to a possible model of the Milky Way.\n\nMilkyWay@home has been active since 2007, and optimized client applications for 32-bit and 64-bit operating systems became available in 2008. Its screensaver capability is limited to a revolving display of users' BOINC statistics, with no graphical component. Instead, animations of the best computer simulations are shared through YouTube.\n\nThe work units that are sent out to clients used to require only 2–4 hours of computation on modern CPUs, however, they were scheduled for completion with a short deadline (typically, three days). By early 2010, the project routinely sent much larger units that take 15–20 hours of computation time on the average processor core, and are valid for about a week from a download. This made the project less suitable for computers that are not in operation for periods of several days, or for user accounts that do not allow BOINC to compute in the background. As of 2018, many GPU-based tasks only require less than a minute to complete on a high-end graphics card.\n\nThe project's data throughput progress has been very dynamic recently. In mid-June 2009, the project had about 24,000 registered users and about 1,100 participating teams in 149 countries and was operating at 31.7 TeraFLOPS. , these figures were at 44,900 users and 1,590 teams in 170 countries, but average computing power had jumped to 1,382 TFlops, which would rank MilkyWay@home second among the TOP500 list of supercomputers. MilkyWay@home is currently the 2nd largest distributed computing project behind Folding@Home which crossed 5,000 TFlops in 2009.\n\nThat data throughput massively outpaced new user acquisition is mostly due to the deployment of client software that uses commonly available medium and high performance graphics processing units (GPUs) for numerical operations in Windows and Linux environments. MilkyWay@home CUDA code for a broad range of Nvidia GPUs was first released on the project's code release directory on June 11, 2009 following experimental releases in the MilkyWay@home(GPU) fork of the project. An OpenCL application for AMD Radeon GPUs is also available and currently outperforming the CPU application. For example, a task that requires 10 minutes using a Radeon HD 3850 GPU or 5 minutes using an Radeon HD 4850 GPU, requires 6 hours using one core of an AMD Phenom II processor at 2.8 GHz.\n\nMilkyWay@home is a whitelisted gridcoin project. It is the second largest manufacturer of gridcoins.\n\nLarge parts of the MilkyWay@home project build on the thesis of Nathan Cole and have been published in \"The Astrophysical Journal\". Other results have been presented at several astrophysical and computing congresses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46310297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46310297", "title": "Model for Prediction Across Scales", "text": "Model for Prediction Across Scales\n\nThe Model for Prediction Across Scales (MPAS) is a coupled Earth system modeling package that integrates atmospheric, oceanographic and cryospheric modeling on a variety of scales from the planetary to regional and mesoscale/microscale. It includes climate and weather modeling and simulations that were first used by researchers in 2013. The atmospheric components (MPAS-A) were led by the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR)'s Earth System Laboratory (NESL) and the oceanographic components (MPAS-O) by the Climate, Ocean, and Sea Ice Modeling Group (COSIM) at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL). It has been used for real-time weather as well as seasonal forecasting of convection, tornadoes and tropical cyclones, among other uses. Its atmospheric modeling aspects are intended to use and complement rather than replace the Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF-ARW/NMM), the Global Forecast System (GFS) and the Community Earth System Model (CESM).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1296487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1296487", "title": "Moritz Hoernes", "text": "Moritz Hoernes\n\nMoritz Hörnes (July 14, 1815 – November 4, 1868), Austrian palaeontologist, was born in Vienna.\n\nHe was educated at the University of Vienna and graduated with a PhD. He then became an assistant in the Vienna mineralogical museum. He was distinguished for his research on the Cenozoic Mollusca of the Vienna Basin and of Alpine regions. Most of his memoirs were published in the \"Jahrbuch der K. K. geol. Reichsanstalt\".\n\nIn 1864 he introduced the term Neogene to include Miocene and Pliocene, as these formations are not always to be clearly separated: the fauna of the lower division being subtropical and gradually giving place in the upper division to Mediterranean forms. He died in Vienna on 4 November 1868.\n\nIn 1860 the mineral hörnesite was named in his honor by Wilhelm Haidinger, with Gustav Adolph Kenngott being its co-describer.\n\nHis son Dr. Rudolf Hörnes (b. 1850), professor of geology and palaeontology in the university of Graz, also carried on researches among the Cenozoic mollusca, and is author of \"Elemente der Palaeontologie\" (1884).\n"}
{"id": "12811972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12811972", "title": "Natalia Dubrovinskaia", "text": "Natalia Dubrovinskaia\n\nNatalia Dubrovinskaia (born 18 February 1961) is a Swedish geologist of Russian origin. In 2005, she led a team of researchers from the University of Bayreuth who were reported to have produced aggregated diamond nanorods from fullerene under high temperatures and pressures. Two years earlier large samples of nanodiamond were produced in a cheaper way (from graphite) and discovered to be harder than diamond by Japanese researchers. Dubrovinskaia currently works at the University of Heidelberg in Germany as a \"Privatdozent\" and Senior Scientist.\n\nDubrovinskaia is married to Leonid Dubrovinsky, a geoscientist at University of Bayreuth .\n"}
{"id": "55992133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55992133", "title": "Olivier Doré", "text": "Olivier Doré\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3401245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3401245", "title": "Outline of psychology", "text": "Outline of psychology\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to psychology:\n\nPsychology is the science of behavior and mental processes. Its immediate goal is to understand individuals and groups by both establishing general principles and researching specific cases.\n\nList of psychology disciplines\n\n\n\n\nPsychological schools – some examples of psychological schools follow (the most prominent schools are in bold):\n\nHistory of psychology\n\n\nList of psychological research methods\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20649854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20649854", "title": "Paralithic", "text": "Paralithic\n\nA paralithic horizon is a weathered layer of bedrock. The term comes from the Greek words \"para\", meaning \"akin to\", and \"lithic\", meaning \"stony\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25469312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25469312", "title": "Sadratnamala", "text": "Sadratnamala\n\nSadratnamala is an astronomical-mathematical treatise in Sanskrit written by Sankara Varman, an astronomer-mathematician of the Kerala school of mathematics, in 1819. Even though the book has been written at a time when western mathematics and astronomy had been introduced in India, it is composed purely in the traditional style followed by the mathematicians of the Kerala school. Sankara Varman has also written a detailed commentary on the book in Malayalam.\n\nSadratnamala is one of the books cited in C. M. Whish's paper on the achievements of the Kerala school of mathematics. This paper published in the \"Transactions of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland\" in 1834, was the first ever attempt to bring the accomplishments of Keralese mathematicians to the attention of Western mathematical scholarship.\n\nWhish wrote in his paper thus: \"The author of Sadratnamalah is SANCARA VARMA, the younger brother of the present Raja of Cadattanada near Tellicherry, a very intelligent man and acute mathematician. This work, which is a complete system of Hindu astronomy, is comprehended in two hundred and eleven verses of different measures, and abounds with fluxional forms and series, to be found in no work of foreign or other Indian countries.\"\n\nThe book contains 212 verses divided into six chapters, called \"prakarana\"-s.\n\n\nSankara Varman, author of Sadratnamala, was born as a younger prince in the principality of Katattanad in the North Malabar in Kerala. To the local people he was known as Appu Thampuran. The date of birth of Sankara Varman is still uncertain. There are some strong arguments in favour of the year 1774 CE. Sankara Varman died in 1839 CE.\n"}
{"id": "39281578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39281578", "title": "Shep diagram", "text": "Shep diagram\n\nA Shep Diagram is a series of video or animated image clips of an athlete, layered into a single composite image for the purposes of contrasting the similarities of movements with the different outcomes. It was originally created by Drew Sheppard to demonstrate the constant release point of Texas Rangers starting pitcher Yu Darvish despite the different speeds and locations of the pitches from that release point. Soon after, MLB Network used a similar process to show the same for Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander. On May 4th, Drew Sheppard announced the development of a partnership with FanGraphs.com to produce additional animations.\n\n"}
{"id": "5559281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5559281", "title": "Stuart Kingsley", "text": "Stuart Kingsley\n\nStuart Kingsley (born May 15, 1948 in Stoke Newington, London, England) is considered a pioneer in the Optical Search For Extraterrestrial Intelligence, also known as Optical SETI (OSETI). \n\nWhile traditional SETI efforts survey the sky in hopes of finding radio transmissions from a nearby civilization, the optical approach to SETI seeks to detect pulsed and continuous wave laser beacons signals in the visible and infrared spectrums. In other words, instead of \"listening\" for extraterrestrial intelligence, Optical SETI \"looks\" for it.\n\nKingsley received a B.Sc. Honors and Ph.D. in electronic and electrical engineering from The City University (London, England), and University College London, England in 1972 and 1984, respectively. He moved to the United States in 1981 and went to work for Battelle Columbus Division as a principal research scientist, becoming a senior research scientist in 1985. He left Battelle in 1987 and established his own photonics consultancy business, Fiberdyne Optoelectronics.\n\nKingsley is the Director of The Columbus Optical SETI Observatory, which is currently working to achieve nonprofit status. Since 1992 he has been the VP for Engineering at SRICO, Inc. Kingsley retired from Srico, Inc. and returned to England in 2008, meaning that the Columbus Optical SETI Observatory has effectively moved to Bournemouth.\n\n"}
{"id": "2219785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2219785", "title": "The Hum", "text": "The Hum\n\nThe Hum is a phenomenon, or collection of phenomena, involving widespread reports of a persistent and invasive low-frequency humming, rumbling, or droning noise not audible to all people. Hums have been widely reported by national media in the UK and the United States. The Hum is sometimes prefixed with the name of a locality where the problem has been particularly publicized: e.g., the \"Bristol Hum\" or the \"Taos Hum\".\nIt is unclear whether it is a single phenomenon; different causes have been attributed. In some cases, it may be a manifestation of tinnitus.\n\nThe essential element that defines the Hum is what is perceived as a persistent low-frequency sound, often described as being comparable to that of a distant diesel engine idling, or to some similar low-pitched sound for which obvious sources (e.g., household appliances, traffic noise, etc.) have been ruled out. There are a number of audio reproductions of the Hum available on the web, as well as at least one purported recording.\n\nOther elements seem to be significantly associated with the Hum, being reported by an important proportion of hearers, but not by all of them. Some people hear the Hum only, or much more, inside buildings as compared with outdoors. Some perceive vibrations that can be felt through the body. Earplugs are reported as not decreasing it.\n\nA study into the Taos Hum indicated that at least two percent could hear it; each hearer at a different frequency between 32 Hz and 80 Hz, modulated from 0.5 to 2 Hz. Similar results have been found in an earlier British study. It seems to be possible for hearers to move away from it, with one hearer of the Taos Hum reporting its range was 48 km. There are approximately equal percentages of male and female hearers. Age does appear to be a factor, with middle aged people being more likely to hear it.\n\nIn 2006, Tom Moir, then of Massey University in Auckland, New Zealand, believes he has made several recordings of the Auckland Hum. His previous research using simulated sounds had indicated that the hum was around 56 hertz. The Taos Hum was between 32 and 80 hertz.\n\nThere is skepticism as to whether it exists as a physical sound. In 2009, the head of audiology at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge, David Baguley, said he believed people's problems with the hum were based on the physical world about one-third of the time, and stemmed from people focusing too keenly on innocuous background sounds the other two-thirds of the time. His current research focuses on using psychology and relaxation techniques to minimise distress, which can lead to a quieting or even removal of the noise.\n\nGeoff Leventhall, a noise and vibration expert, has suggested cognitive behavioral therapy may be effective in helping those affected. \"It's a question of whether you tense up to the noise or are relaxed about it. The CBT was shown to work, by helping people to take a different attitude to it.\"\n\nThere has been little mainstream attention. Only a handful of articles have been published in scientific literature, including:\nLeventhall, 2004, 2003;\nCowan, 2003; \nMullins & Kelly, 1998, 1995; \nBroner, 1978; \nVasudevan & Gordon, 1977. \nOthers publications include:\nFox, 1989; \nWilson, 1979;\nHanlon, 1973.\n\nThe Hum has been reported worldwide.\n\nAlthough an obvious candidate, given the common description of the hum as sounding like a diesel engine, the majority of reported hums have not been traced to a specific mechanical source.\n\nIn the case of Kokomo, Indiana, a city with heavy industry, the origin of the hum was thought to have been traced to two sources. The first was a 36-hertz tone from a cooling tower at the local DaimlerChrysler casting plant and the second was a 10-hertz tone from an air compressor intake at the Haynes International plant. After those devices were corrected, however, reports of the hum persisted.\n\nTwo hums have been linked to mechanical sources. The West Seattle Hum was traced to a vacuum pump used by CalPortland to offload cargo from ships. After CalPortland replaced the silencers on the machine, reports of the hum ceased. Likewise, the Wellington Hum is thought to have been due to the diesel generator on a visiting ship. A 35 Hz hum in Windsor, Ontario, is likely to have originated from a steelworks on the industrial zone of Zug Island near Detroit.\n\nOne hum in Myrtle Beach, SC was suspected of originating at a Santee Cooper substation almost 2 miles away from the home of a couple who first reported it. The substation is home to the largest transformer in the state. One local couple sued the power company for the disruption the hum was causing them. The hum was louder inside their house than out, in part, they believed, because their house vibrated in resonance to the 60 Hz hum. The volume of the hum was measured at up to 64.1 db in the couple's home.\n\nA suggested diagnosis of tinnitus, a self-reported disturbance of the auditory system, is used by some physicians in response to complaints about the Hum. Tinnitus is generated internally by the auditory and nervous systems, with no external stimulus. However, the theory that the Hum is actually tinnitus fails to explain why some hearers report that the Hum can be heard only at certain geographical locations.\n\nWhile the Hum is hypothesized by some to be a form of low frequency tinnitus such as the venous hum, some report it is not internal, being worse inside their homes than outside. However, others insist that it is equally bad indoors and outdoors. Some people notice the Hum only at home, while others hear it everywhere they go. Some sufferers report that it is made worse by soundproofing (e.g., double glazing), which serves only to decrease other environmental noise, thus making the Hum more apparent.\n\nTinnitus is known to be exacerbated by allergens, which are regional and seasonal. Due to blockages, inflammation, and pressure inside the head, taking allergy medicine may help to mitigate the Hum.\n\nHuman ears generate their own noises, called spontaneous otoacoustic emissions (SOAE). Various studies have showed that 38–60% of adults with normal hearing have them, although the majority are unaware of these sounds. The people who do hear these sounds typically hear a faint buzzing or ringing, especially if they are otherwise in complete silence.\n\nResearchers who looked at the Taos Hum considered otoacoustic emissions as a possibility.\n\nOne of the possible causes of the West Seattle Hum considered was that it was related to the midshipman fish, also known as a toadfish. A previous hum in Sausalito, California, also on the west coast of the United States, was determined to be the mating call of the male midshipman. However, in that case the hum was resonating through houseboat hulls and affecting the people living on those boats. In the West Seattle case, the University of Washington researcher determined that it would be impossible for any resonating hum, transmitted via tanker or boat hulls, to be transmitted very far inland; certainly not far enough to account for the reports.\n\nThe Scottish Association for Marine Science hypothesised that the nocturnal humming sound heard in Hythe, Hampshire in the UK could be produced by a similar \"sonic\" fish. The council believed this to be unlikely because such fish are not commonly found in inshore waters of the UK. As of February 2014, the source had not been located, although the sound has now been recorded.\n\nA case of \"hum\" in a house, reported in the \"Daily Telegraph\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s 'Letters from Readers' on 18 January 2018, proved to be a wasps' nest in a hollow wall.\n\nThe Taos Hum was featured on the TV show \"Unsolved Mysteries\". It was also featured in \"LiveScience\"'s \"Top Ten Unexplained Phenomena\", where it took tenth place.\n\nBBC Radio 4 in the UK featured an investigation of the Hum phenomena in their \"Punt PI\" fact-based comedy programme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34661234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34661234", "title": "Val Chapman", "text": "Val Chapman\n\nValentine Jackson Chapman (14 February 1910 – 5 December 1980) was a New Zealand botanist, university professor and conservationist. \n\nHe was born in Alcester, Warwickshire, England, on 14 February 1910.\n\nChapman was an associate of Auckland's Mayor Dove-Myer Robinson and was a member of the Auckland Metropolitan Drainage Board between 1955 and 1956. He was a member of the Auckland City Council winning two by-elections in 1954 and 1961. Despite these successes, he was defeated in both subsequent elections in 1956 and 1962, missing out by only 172 votes in his second attempt.\n\nIn the 1974 New Year Honours, Chapman was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for academic and public services.\n\n"}
