{"id": "2701203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2701203", "title": "7 Sins (video game)", "text": "7 Sins (video game)\n\n7 Sins is a life simulation video game where the player must get to the top of the social ladder and make decisions related to the seven deadly sins. The game is set in the fictional Apple City. Throughout the game the player makes decisions based on pride, wrath, greed, envy, lust, sloth and gluttony. Once a relationship has been built new missions are unlocked. In total there are seven chapters and one hundred non-player characters to interact with.\n\n\"PC Zone\"'s staff rated the game 6 out of 10, stating \"We can't wholeheartedly recommend 7 Sins as a total gaming experience..\", but added \"... it honestly isn't anywhere near as bad as some might tell you. They're just too timid to admit it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1731484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1731484", "title": "Amusia", "text": "Amusia\n\nAmusia is a musical disorder that appears mainly as a defect in processing pitch but also encompasses musical memory and recognition. Two main classifications of amusia exist: acquired amusia, which occurs as a result of brain damage, and congenital amusia, which results from a music-processing anomaly present since birth.\n\nStudies have shown that congenital amusia is a deficit in fine-grained pitch discrimination and that 4% of the population suffers from this disorder. Acquired amusia, on the other hand, may take several forms. Patients with brain damage may experience the loss of ability to produce musical sounds while sparing speech, much like aphasics lose speech selectively but can sometimes still sing. Other forms of amusia may affect specific sub-processes of music processing. Current research has demonstrated dissociations between rhythm, melody, and emotional processing of music, and amusia may include impairment of any combination of these skill sets.\n\nNeurologically intact individuals appear to be born musical. Even before they are able to talk, infants show remarkable musical abilities that are similar to those of adults in that they are sensitive to musical scales and a regular tempo. Also, infants are able to differentiate between consonant and dissonant intervals. These perceptual skills indicate that music-specific predispositions exist.\n\nProlonged exposure to music develops and refines these skills. Extensive musical training does not seem to be necessary in the processing of chords and keys. The development of musical competence most likely depends on the encoding of pitch along musical scales and maintaining a regular pulse, both of which are key components in the structure of music and aid in perception, memory, and performance. Also, the encoding of pitch and temporal regularity are both likely to be specialized for music processing. Pitch perception is absolutely crucial to processing music. The use of scales and the organization of scale tones around a central tone (called the tonic) assign particular importance to notes in the scale and cause non-scale notes to sound out of place. This enables the listener to ascertain when a wrong note is played. However, in individuals with amusia, this ability is either compromised or lost entirely.\n\nMusic-specific neural networks exist in the brain for a variety of music-related tasks. It has been shown that Broca's area is involved in the processing of musical syntax. Furthermore, brain damage can disrupt an individual's ability to tell the difference between tonal and atonal music and detect the presence of wrong notes, but can preserve the individual's ability to assess the distance between pitches and the direction of the pitch. The opposite scenario can also occur, in which the individual loses pitch discrimination capabilities, but can sense and appreciate the tonal context of the work. Distinct neural networks also exist for music memories, singing, and music recognition. Neural networks for music recognition are particularly intriguing. A patient can undergo brain damage that renders them unable to recognize familiar melodies that are presented without words. However, the patient maintains the ability to recognize spoken lyrics or words, familiar voices, and environmental sounds. The reverse case is also possible, in which the patient cannot recognize spoken words, but can still recognize familiar melodies. These situations overturn previous claims that speech recognition and music recognition share a single processing system. Instead, it is clear that there are at least two distinct processing modules: one for speech and one for music.\n\nSymptoms of amusia are generally categorized as receptive, clinical, or mixed. Symptoms of receptive amusia, sometimes referred to as \"musical deafness\", include the inability to recognize familiar melodies, the loss of ability to read musical notation, and the inability to detect wrong or out-of tune notes. Clinical, or expressive, symptoms include the loss of ability to sing, write musical notation, and/or play an instrument. A mixed disorder would be a combination of expressive and receptive impairment.\n\nClinical symptoms of acquired amusia are much more variable than those of congenital amusia and are determined by the location and nature of the lesion. Brain injuries may afflict motor or expressive functioning, including the ability to sing, whistle, or hum a tune (oral-expressive amusia), the ability to play an instrument (instrumental amusia or musical apraxia), and the ability to write music (musical agraphia). Additionally, brain damage to the receptive dimension affects the faculty to discriminate tunes (receptive or sensorial amusia), the ability to read music (musical alessia), and the ability to identify songs that were familiar prior to the brain damage (amnesic amusia).\n\nResearch suggests that patients with amusia also have difficulty when it comes to spatial processing. Amusics performed more quickly than normal individuals on a combined task of both spatial and musical processing tasks, which is most likely due to their deficit. Normal individuals experience interference due to their intact processing of both musical and spatial tasks, while amusics do not. Pitch processing normally depends on the cognitive mechanisms that are usually used to process spatial representations.\n\nThose with congenital amusia show impaired performance on discrimination, identification and imitation of sentences with intonational differences in pitch direction in their final word. This suggests that amusia can in subtle ways impair language processing.\n\nThe diagnosis of amusia requires individuals to detect out-of-key notes in conventional but unfamiliar melodies. A behavioral failure on this test is diagnostic because there is typically no overlap between the distributions of the scores of amusics and controls. Such scores are generally obtained through the Montreal Battery of Evaluation of Amusia (MBEA), which involves a series of tests that evaluate the use of musical characteristics known to contribute to the memory and perception of conventional music. The battery comprises six subtests which assess the ability to discriminate pitch contour, musical scales, pitch intervals, rhythm, meter, and memory. An individual is considered amusic if they perform two standard deviations below the mean obtained by musically-competent controls. This musical pitch disorder represents a phenotype that serves to identify the associated neuro-genetic factors. Both MRI-based brain structural analyses and electroencephalography (EEG) are common methods employed to uncover brain anomalies associated with amusia (See Neuroanatomy). Additionally, voxel-based morphometry (VBM) is used to detect anatomical differences between the MRIs of amusic brains and musically intact brains, specifically with respect increased and/or decreased amounts of white and grey matter.\n\nThere are two general classifications of amusia: congenital amusia and acquired amusia.\n\nCongenital amusia, commonly known as tone deafness, refers to a musical disability that cannot be explained by prior brain lesion, hearing loss, cognitive defects, or lack of environmental stimulation, and it affects about 4% of the population. Individuals who suffer from congenital amusia seem to lack the musical predispositions with which most people are born. They are unable to recognize or hum familiar tunes even if they have normal audiometry and above-average intellectual and memory skills. Also, they do not show sensitivity to dissonant chords in a melodic context, which, as discussed earlier, is one of the musical predispositions exhibited by infants. The hallmark of congenital amusia is a deficit in fine-grained pitch discrimination, and this deficit is most apparent when congenital amusics are asked to pick out a wrong note in a given melody. If the distance between two successive pitches is small, congenital amusics are not able to detect a pitch change. As a result of this defect in pitch perception, a lifelong musical impairment may emerge due to a failure to internalize musical scales. A lack of fine-grained pitch discrimination makes it extremely difficult for amusics to enjoy and appreciate music, which consists largely of small pitch changes.\n\nTone-deaf people seem to be disabled only when it comes to music as they can fully interpret the prosody or intonation of human speech. Tone deafness has a strong negative correlation with belonging to societies with tonal languages. This could be evidence that the ability to reproduce and distinguish between notes may be a learned skill; conversely, it may suggest that the genetic predisposition towards accurate pitch discrimination may influence the linguistic development of a population towards tonality. A correlation between allele frequencies and linguistic typological features has been recently discovered, supporting the latter hypothesis.\n\nTone deafness is also associated with other musical-specific impairments such as the inability to keep time with music (beat deafness, or the lack of rhythm), or the inability to remember or recognize a song. These disabilities can appear separately, but some research shows that they are more likely to appear in tone-deaf people. Experienced musicians, such as W. A. Mathieu, have addressed tone deafness in adults as correctable with training.\n\nAcquired amusia is a musical disability that shares the same characteristics as congenital amusia, but rather than being inherited, it is the result of brain damage. It is also more common than congenital amusia. While it has been suggested that music is processed by music-specific neural networks in the brain, this view has been broadened to show that music processing also encompasses generic cognitive functions, such as memory, attention, and executive processes. A recent study was conducted to investigate the neural and cognitive mechanisms that underlie acquired amusia and contribute to its recovery. The study was performed on 53 stroke patients with a left or right hemisphere middle cerebral artery (MCA) infarction one week, three months, and six months after the stroke occurred. Amusic subjects were identified one week following their stroke, and over the course of the study, amusics and non-amusics were compared in both brain lesion location and their performances on neuropsychological tests.\n\nResults showed that there was no significant difference in the distribution of left and right hemisphere lesions between amusic and non-amusic groups, but that the amusic group had a significantly higher number of lesions to the frontal lobe and auditory cortex. Temporal lobe lesions were also observed in patients with amusia. Amusia is a common occurrence following an ischemic MCA stroke, as evidenced by the 60% of patients who were found to be amusic at the one-week post-stroke stage. While significant recovery takes place over time, amusia can persist for long periods of time. Test results suggest that acquired amusia and its recovery in the post-stroke stage are associated with a variety of cognitive functions, particularly attention, executive functioning, and working memory.\n\nMany research studies of individuals with amusia show that a number of cortical regions appear to be involved in processing music. Some report that the primary auditory cortex, secondary auditory cortex, and limbic system are responsible for this faculty, while more recent studies suggest that lesions in other cortical areas, abnormalities in cortical thickness, and deficiency in neural connectivity and brain plasticity may contribute to amusia. While various causes of amusia exist, some general findings that provide insight to the brain mechanisms involved in music processing are discussed below.\n\nStudies suggest that the analysis of pitch is primarily controlled by the right temporal region of the brain. The right secondary auditory cortex processes pitch change and manipulation of fine tunes; specifically, this region distinguishes the multiple pitches that characterize melodic tunes as contour (pitch direction) and interval (frequency ratio between successive notes) information. The right superior temporal gyrus recruits and evaluates contour information, while both right and left temporal regions recruit and evaluate interval information. In addition, the right anterolateral part of Heschl's gyrus (primary auditory cortex) is also concerned with processing pitch information.\n\nThe brain analyzes the temporal (rhythmic) components of music in two ways: (1) it segments the ongoing sequences of music into temporal events based on duration, and (2) it groups those temporal events to understand the underlying beat to music. Studies on rhythmic discrimination reveal that the right temporal auditory cortex is responsible for temporal segmenting, and the left temporal auditory cortex is responsible for temporal grouping. Other studies suggest the participation of motor cortical areas in rhythm perception and production. Therefore, a lack of involvement and networking between bilateral temporal cortices and neural motor centers may contribute to both congenital and acquired amusia.\n\nMemory is required in order to process and integrate both melodic and rhythmic aspects of music. Studies suggest that there is a rich interconnection between the right temporal gyrus and frontal cortical areas for working memory in music appreciation. This connection between the temporal and frontal regions of the brain is extremely important since these regions play critical roles in music processing. Changes in the temporal areas of the amusic brain are most likely associated with deficits in pitch perception and other musical characteristics, while changes in the frontal areas are potentially related to deficits in cognitive processing aspects, such as memory, that are needed for musical discrimination tasks. Memory is also concerned with the recognition and internal representation of tunes, which help to identify familiar songs and confer the ability to sing tunes in one's head. The activation of the superior temporal region and left inferior temporal and frontal areas is responsible for the recognition of familiar songs, and the right auditory cortex (a perceptual mechanism) is involved in the internal representation of tunes. These findings suggest that any abnormalities and/or injuries to these regions of the brain could facilitate amusia.\n\n\nIn 1825, F. Gall mentioned a \"musical organ\" in a specific region of the human brain that could be spared or disrupted after a traumatic event resulting in brain damage. In 1865, Jean-Baptiste Bouillaud described the first series of cases that involved the loss of music abilities that were due to brain injury. Later, during the late nineteenth-century, several influential neurologists studied language in an attempt to construct a theory of cognition. While not studied as thoroughly as language, music and visual processing were also studied. In 1888–1890, August Knoblauch produced a cognitive model for music processing and termed it amusia. This model for music processing was the earliest produced.\n\nWhile the possibility that certain individuals may be born with musical deficits is not a new notion, the first documented case of congenital amusia was published relatively recently. The study was conducted with a female volunteer, referred to as Monica, who declared herself to be musically impaired in response to an advertisement in the newspaper. Monica had no psychiatric or neurological history, nor did she have any hearing loss. MRI scans showed no abnormalities. Monica also scored above average on a standard intelligence test, and her working memory was evaluated and found to be normal. However, Monica suffers from a lifelong inability to recognize or perceive music, which has persisted even after involvement with music through church choir and band during her childhood and teenage years. Monica even admits that she does not enjoy listening to music because, to her, it sounds like noise and evokes a stressful response.\n\nIn order to determine if Monica's disorder is amusia, she was subjected to the MBEA series of tests. One of the tests dealt with Monica's difficulties in discriminating pitch variations in sequential notes. In this test, a pair of melodies was played, and Monica was asked if the second melody in the pair contained a wrong note. Monica's score on this test was well below the average score generated by the control group. Further tests showed that Monica struggles with recognizing highly familiar melodies, but that she has no problems in recognizing the voices of well-known speakers. Thus, it appears that Monica's deficit seems limited to music. A later study showed that not only do amusics experience difficulty in discriminating variations in pitch, but they also exhibit deficits in perceiving patterns in pitch.\n\nThis finding led to another test that was designed to assess the presence of a deficiency in pitch perception. In this test, Monica heard a sequence of five piano tones of constant pitch followed by a comparison sequence of five piano tones in which the fourth tone could be the same pitch as the other notes in the sequence or a completely different pitch altogether. Monica was asked to respond \"yes\" if she detected a pitch change on the fourth tone or respond \"no\" if she could not detect a pitch change. Results show that Monica could barely detect a pitch change as large as two semitones (whole tone), or half steps. While this pitch-processing deficit is extremely severe, it does not seem to include speech intonation. This is because pitch variations in speech are very coarse compared with those used in music. In conclusion, Monica's learning disability arises from a basic problem in pitch discrimination, which is viewed as the origin of congenital amusia.\n\nAnother interesting question posed about congenital amusia is if it has a genetic origin. A study was conducted to test for the presence of a genetic origin by studying family aggregation of congenital amusia. Family members of amusics were studied, as well as family members of a control group. The study yielded interesting results. Amusia cannot be attributed solely to family environment due to the presence of at least one unaffected sibling in each tested family in the amusic group. Also, music was found to be present to a lesser extent, but not absent, in the environment of the amusic subjects than in that of the musically intact control group. This supports the claim that the occurrence of congenital amusia cannot be explained by a lack of environmental stimulation. Another interesting finding was that the next generation, or the offspring of those with congenital amusia, was more musical. A reason for this might be that musical stimulation for the offspring probably started early in life when their brains were more plastic.\n\nOverall, test results support the view that congenital amusia is hereditary. It is likely to be influenced by several genes that interact to increase an individual's susceptibility to its development. However, the fact that the offspring have a lower risk of developing congenital amusia shows that it can be less prevalent when the musical environment is enriched. This stresses the importance that experience-dependent tuning has in the musical pitch system.\n\nWhile it is known that congenital amusia is a disorder characterized by poor pitch perception, a recent study sought to discover to what extent this pitch deficit may compromise singing. In this study, eleven amusic individuals and eleven controls were asked to sing a familiar song using the lyrics first, and then using the syllable \"la\". Results showed that individuals with congenital amusia were poor singers. They could not maintain a stable pitch, nor could they sing the correct pitch intervals that were written in the music. However, many of the amusic testing subjects were able to sing with the correct rhythm. The results confirmed that the amusics' ability to detect pitch changes influences their level of singing proficiency. The subjects who struggled the most with pitch perception were the most unstable in producing the correct pitch and made several pitch interval and contour errors. However, there were some remarkable exceptions. A couple of amusic individuals were able to sing proficiently despite extremely impaired pitch perception.\n\nThe results of singing with the lyrics and singing on the syllable \"la\" can also be compared. Although most of the amusic subjects struggled with maintaining the correct pitch when singing with lyrics, they were able to complete the task. However, when singing the same song on the syllable \"la\", more than half of the amusic subjects could only sing a few notes. This is due to a poor memory of the musical component of songs. Overall, it was concluded that singing deficiency in amusic individuals might be a result of their pitch perception deficit. However, the existence of amusic individuals who are able to sing proficiently suggests that there may be separate neural pathways for auditory perception and action.\n\nAmusia has recently been classified as a learning disability that affects musical abilities. Research suggests that in congenital amusia, younger subjects can be taught tone differentiation techniques. This finding leads researchers to believe that amusia is related to dyslexia and other similar disorders. Research has been shown that amusia may be related to an increase in size of the cerebral cortex, which may be a result of a malformation in cortical development. Diseases such as dyslexia and epilepsy are due to a malformation in cortical development and also lead to an increase in cortical thickness, which leads researchers to believe that congenital amusia may be caused by the identical phenomenon in a different area of the brain.\n\nAmusia is also similar to aphasia in that they affect similar areas of the brain near the temporal lobe. Most cases of those with amusia do not show any symptoms of aphasia. However, a number of cases have shown that those who have aphasia can exhibit symptoms of amusia, especially in acquired aphasia. The two are not mutually exclusive and having one does not imply possession of the other. In acquired amusia, inability to perceive music correlates with an inability to perform other higher-level functions. As musical ability improves, so too do the higher cognitive functions which suggests that musical ability is closely related to these higher-level functions, such as memory and learning, mental flexibility, and semantic fluency.\n\nAmusia can also be related to aprosody, a disorder in which the sufferer's speech is affected, becoming extremely monotonous. It has been found that both amusia and aprosody can arise from seizures occurring in the non-dominant hemisphere. They can also both arise from lesions to the brain, as can Broca's aphasia come about simultaneously with amusia from injury. There is a relation between musical abilities and the components of speech, however, they are not understood very well.\n\nOther than their inability to hear music, which is most likely due to a genetic defect, the rest of an amusic's brain remains normal. The only effect is on the ability to tell different notes apart due to the separation of two key areas in the brain. Most sufferers of amusia describe music as unpleasant. Others simply refer to it as noise and find it annoying. This can have social implications because amusics often try to avoid music, which in many social situations is not an option. In China and other countries in which identical words have different meanings based on pitch, amusia may have a much more pronounced social and emotional impact: difficulty in speaking and understanding the language.\n\nCurrently, no forms of treatment have proven effective in treating amusia. One study has shown tone differentiation techniques to have some success, however future research on treatment of this disorder will be necessary to verify this technique as an appropriate treatment.\n\nOver the past decade, much has been discovered about amusia. However, there remains a great deal more to learn. While a method of treatment for people with amusia has not been defined, tone differentiation techniques have been used on amusic patients with some success. It was found with this research that children reacted positively to these tone differentiation techniques, while adults found the training annoying. However, further research in this direction would aid in determining if this would be a viable treatment option for people with amusia. Additional research can also serve to indicate which processing component in the brain is essential for normal music development. Also, it would be extremely beneficial to investigate musical learning in relation to amusia since this could provide valuable insights into other forms of learning disabilities such as dysphasia and dyslexia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27712314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27712314", "title": "Angry Penguin Productions", "text": "Angry Penguin Productions\n\nAngry Penguin Productions is a Rochester, New York based multimedia company, founded in 2002 by Antonio Esteves and Jonathan Bernier.\n\nAngry Penguin was first started in 2002 when Bernier and Esteves started promoting local music shows (particularly of the Punk Rock, Emo and Metal variety) around the Westchester County, New York area. The two felt their area lacked in variety of music shows and took matters into their own hands. The name they choose as their promotion guise was Angry Penguin and the pair started putting on and promoting one to two shows a week. Their shows took place mainly in bars and occasionally VFW halls. Many of the bands who played early Angry Penguin shows have gone on to great success, including Plain White T's, Comeback Kid and Kevin Devine.\n\nIn 2004, Bernier and Esteves started Angry Penguin Records, an independent record label. As the label had no distribution deal, all albums are sold through festival appearances, music concerts and their website.\n\nAngry Penguin's first signing was Dr. Hourai, a progressive metal band from the greater Westchester County, New York area. Their first album, \"Post Apocalyptic Nightmare Volume One: Vibrations in Hyperspace EP\" was recorded at The Loft studios in Bronxville, New York in early 2004. The label began what would become a long-running tradition of promoting both themselves and their signed acts on the Warped Tour in Summer 2004.\n\nIn 2007, Angry Penguin Records signed Manchester, England's Pendleton, a 4-piece punk rock band. Their first recording (done in England), \"You, by Us\", was re-issued in the states by Angry Penguin. The band toured the US on the Vans Warped Tour 2007, followed by a self-booked tour, also in the US. In the spring of 2008, Pendleton came back to the states to record their sophomore release \"The Difference\". The album was done by producer John Naclerio at Nada Recording Studios in New Windsor, New York.\n\nIn 2009, Angry Penguin Productions sponsored the first ever Rage Fest, a hardcore and metal daylong music festival at Rochester's Water Street Music Hall on August 28. It featured over 15 local bands, including Sirens and Sailors, June Rising, Storm The Bay and Makyo Star.\n\nIt has been announced on Angry Penguin's official blog, that the second annual Rage Fest will take place on August 27, 2010 at Water Street Music Hall\n\nThe Angry Penguin is a fictional character, found in The Angry Penguin comic book series. He is portrayed as having a prominent rage problem, cemented with the tagline \"More Violent Than He Needs To Be.\" Because he is still a developing character, the whereabouts of his origin are unknown, as well as the motive behind his quest for world domination.\n\nAngry Penguin Productions has released four issues of the Angry Penguin webcomic on their website. These have been short, sequential series. All four have been illustrated by Peter Lazarski and written by Esteves and Bernier. In a recent review, the website Geek Girl on the Street hinted at purposeful political undertones being present in the comic, though Angry Penguin Productions has yet to respond to the allegation.\n\n\n\nAngry Penguin annually makes appearances on the entire Vans Warped Tour and at New York Comic Con. In 2010, the company also appeared at C2E2 and San Francisco's Wondercon.\n\nThe Angry Penguin appears on a line of adult clothing, including T-shirts, hooded sweatshirts, tank tops as well as women's \"booty shorts\", T-shirts, long sleeved shirts and more. The items depict the Angry Penguin in a variety of circumstances, as well as his enemies and weapons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3539605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3539605", "title": "Animal Crossing: City Folk", "text": "Animal Crossing: City Folk\n\nAnimal Crossing: City Folk, known in Europe and Oceania as Animal Crossing: Let's Go to the City, is a 2008 life simulation video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Wii console and the third game in the \"Animal Crossing\" series. It is also one of the first titles that was re-released as a part of the Nintendo Selects collection in 2011.\n\nIn \"City Folk\", the player character lives in a rural village populated with anthropomorphic animals, taking part in various activities such as collecting and planting. Similar to other games in the \"Animal Crossing\" series the game is synced to the Wii system clock and calendar, allowing the game to be played in real-time and affecting the occurrence of in-game events based on the current time of day or season. \"City Folk\" utilizes Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, allowing players to visit one another's villages via online play. The game is also the first Wii title to be compatible with the Wii Speak accessory, which enables voice chat.\n\n\"City Folk\" was officially announced at E3 2008. The game is one of the best-selling games on the Wii with 3.38 million copies sold worldwide.\n\n\"Animal Crossing: City Folk\"s gameplay is built upon the gameplay of previous \"Animal Crossing\" games. The Wii Remote pointer and motion controls (including the Nunchuk) can be used for handling tools, such as axes, watering cans, slingshots, fishing rods, and bug-catching nets. The game also has shovels and watering cans. Players live in individual houses spread apart from each other, unlike \"Animal Crossing\", in which all four houses are located in a central plaza, and \"\", in which all players share one house. Each town begins with six animal residents, and can grow to a maximum of ten. In Animal Crossing for the GameCube, up to 15 animal residents can live in a single town, and in Animal Crossing: Wild World, there can be only 8. In previous iterations of \"Animal Crossing\", custom clothing involves a single image that is repeated on the front, back and sleeves; in \"City Folk\", the player can make separate images for each, which is called a \"Pro\" design.\n\nThe player will be able to celebrate as time progresses through several real-world holidays, such as Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, Thanksgiving, Easter, Father's Day, Mother's Day, and Halloween, although they are named differently in the game itself. Holiday-associated characters from previous games return, as well as new additions such as Zipper T. the Easter Bunny, Pavé (a peacock who celebrates \"Festivale\"), and Nat (a chameleon who hosts the \"Bug-off\", a bug catching contest).\n\nPlayers use a currency known as \"bells\" in the game. They can get bells by selling items to Nook, the local store owner, such as fish, bugs, fruit, or almost anything they have. Players can save their bells in their own account at the Bank of Nintendo. They may deposit or withdraw bells at the ABD machine located at the town hall.\n\nPlayers have their own house in the game. Their house is provided by Tom Nook. Nook allows them to pay off their house over time, instead of all at once. They can go to the ABD machine to pay off some of this debt whenever they have the money. Once a player pays off a certain amount, their house is upgraded, adding a new story or making the first level of the house bigger. Players may decorate this house anyway they please. The HRA (Happy Room Academy) in the city rates their room, and will pick a room to put on display. Players buy furniture at Tom Nook's, Redd's in the city, or from other animals in their town. Players can use feng shui to earn more HRA points and get luckier in their daily doings, such as catching rare fish or bugs more often.\n\nPlayers and animals alike can participate in hobbies. These include fishing, bug-catching, fossil finding, and gardening. There is a wide variety of bugs and fish that can be caught, which can be sold or donated to the museum. There is also a large selection of trees and flowers to plant. There are many fossils to be found buried across the village. The player can participate in occasional Bug-Offs or Fishing Tourneys.\n\nThe city is a new area added to the game. The player can go there by taking a bus from town, driven by Kapp'n, and once at the city, players can buy clothes, get their hair done, go to a theatre, bid on furniture, and much more. Special characters often appear in the city; these characters include Phineas (who hands out prizes) and Kicks (who polishes shoes).\n\n\"Animal Crossing: City Folk\" is the first Wii game to use Wii Speak, a new microphone option for the Wii that enables voice communication over Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection (WFC). With Wii Speak, all people in a room can communicate with those in another room also containing the device, and can also have live text chat using a USB Keyboard. Players can communicate with other players by sending messages to their town, Wii Message Board, mobile phone, or personal computer.\n\nAn auction house run by Lloid, a Gyroid, is available in the city and is where players can auction items to other players via Nintendo WFC. There is also an office for the Happy Room Academy run by Lyle, where players can see how other players' towns are progressing.\n\nAs of May 2014, Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection has been terminated and is only possible with homebrew process to connect online.\n\nThe game supports Nintendo DS connectivity functionality. Instead of creating a new character, players can import characters from \"\". Only the character's face, hair (including color and style) and catalog (the items purchasable from Tom Nook) are imported; bells and items owned by the character (including items in the character's inventory, house, town, or dressers) are not transferred. The data in \"Wild World\" is not modified when a character is copied to \"City Folk\", so the character can continue to be played on the DS as well. Items from the character's catalog can be repurchased with bells from \"City Folk\". A system error occurred with the Australian version of \"Let's Go to the City\" when connecting with the Nintendo DS claiming that it was \"the wrong game card\". Nintendo Australia allowed gamers to send back their game discs to fix the error to allow compatibility. Additionally, the Nintendo DS can be used to transfer characters between Wii consoles as a means of visiting other player's towns via DS Download Play.\n\nUsing WiiConnect24, Nintendo periodically sent out downloadable content to online players. These ranged from items to celebrate particular holidays or to commemorate the release of new games. The first item released from Nintendo was the \"Red Pikmin Hat\". Other items given to players include a \"Girl's Day updo\" and \"Top\", Saint Patrick's Day hat, DSi chair (White for EU; black or pink for US), a bag of bells for Tax Day, and a bus model for teacher appreciation week. After summer '09 began, Nintendo sent to North American players a hot dog hat, the dolphin model from Pikmin, ladder shades, a hopscotch flooring, a dresser in the shape of a GameCube, a pile of leaves, an election poster, an anniversary cake, and a Wii locker.\n\nThese items can be ordered from Nook's catalog provided that they had been downloaded when they were available. In the case of patterns given by Wendell the Walrus, if they were originally Japanese only, then they will keep their Japanese name if used in a European or American version of the game, while regular items will have English names.\n\nThe game was announced as a Wii game that markets the WiiConnect24 feature of the console. In a 2006 interview, Katsuya Eguchi, leader of \"Animal Crossing\"s production development, stated, \"someone could send a letter from their cellphone or from an email address on a PC to the Wii, and then the player living in the town in \"Animal Crossing\" could receive that letter.\" In another interview with IGN, Katsuya Eguchi also discussed how his team continues exploring potential ways to take advantage of the WiiConnect24 feature such as allowing friends to visit other towns or to leave messages while the machine is in standby mode.\n\nAnimal Crossing: City Folk received mixed to positive reviews. The Japanese gaming magazine Famitsu gave it a score of 33/40, lower than the 37/40 scores of its predecessors, while Nintendo Power gave the game an 8.0. Cheat Codes Central gave the game a score of 4.4/5, calling the game great, but too similar to its predecessors. IGN gave the game a 7.5/10, claiming that while the design of the game is sound, they believed it was too much like its predecessors, calling it \"a blending of the GameCube and Nintendo DS games\" 1UP.com gave the game a C grade, claiming \"\"City Folk\" seems like a missed opportunity to improve and enhance the series in almost every possible way.\" X-Play gave the game a 4 out of 5, praising the gameplay and the addition of Wii Speak while finding it too similar to previous titles. The British Official Nintendo Magazine gave the game 90%, saying that the game was \"Packed full of Nintendo Charm\" and \"You'll be playing it for months\", but criticized the game as it being \"Not new enough for veterans\". It was awarded Best Simulation Game for the Wii by IGN in its 2008 video game awards. IGN also nominated it for Best Family Game and Best Online Multiplayer Game. GameSpot also awarded it as being the Least Improved Sequel.\n\nAs of January 4, 2009, \"Animal Crossing: City Folk\" has sold 949,000 copies in Japan. It was the 10th best-selling game of December 2008 in the United States, selling in excess of 497,000 copies. It is also the eighth best-selling game of Japan in 2009. As of May 2009, \"Animal Crossing: City Folk\" has sold 3.38 million copies worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "36437199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36437199", "title": "Animation International", "text": "Animation International\n\nAnimation International Ltd. is a company headquartered in Hong Kong. The company was established in 1979 and focuses on film distribution, publishing and licensing. They export and license animation in China, Hong Kong, the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Taiwan. In 1996 they established Animation International (Thailand) Co., Ltd. as a joint venture with JSL Co., Ltd. The company announced plans to establish places for products related to the Doraemon franchise in electronics stores and in some Laox stores as well as a dedicated store which is supposed to open in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "9526640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9526640", "title": "Assistant's Revenge", "text": "Assistant's Revenge\n\nThe Assistant's Revenge is a transposition illusion in which two performers change places. It was created by magician and inventor Robert Harbin.\n\nOne of the two performers, the \"restrainee\", is placed in a standing position in a large frame and restrained there with various straps, manacles, chains and locks. The second performer, the \"restrainer\", circles the frame, drawing a curtain first across the front, and then around one side and the back. Almost as soon as the restrainer disappears behind the frame, the restrainee appears from the other side of the apparatus, drawing back the curtain as he or she comes. This reveals the restrainer now restrained in the frame; the two seem to have changed places by magic.\n\nIn practice, the roles of restrainer and restrainee have been interchangeable between magician and assistant. Sometimes it begins with the assistant restraining the magician, with the implication that in this way the assistant is gaining \"revenge\" for all the other tricks they do where the assistant is put in a box. However it is also performed with the assistant being restrained at the beginning and emerging at the end to with the magician restrained as \"revenge\" for the opening part.\n\nIn \"Magic's Biggest Secrets Finally Revealed\", it is shown that the assistant can come out from the back of the frame and switch places with the magician. Because it is hidden by the curtain, it looks like they magically switched places.\n\n"}
{"id": "56863058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56863058", "title": "Badman (web series)", "text": "Badman (web series)\n\nBadman is a British comedy drama web series that premiered on YouTube in October 2015. The series is created by Humza Arshad and consists of continuous episodes uploaded on his YouTube channel Humza Productions, following the next chapter in the \"Diary of a Badman\" world. Humza is now maturing from boy to man, and this is a much darker and more serious saga with implications along the way. \n\nThe original music is provided by DJ Limelight, Lyan Roze and DDark.\n\n"}
{"id": "30872959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872959", "title": "Bill Aucoin", "text": "Bill Aucoin\n\nWilliam Martin Aucoin (December 29, 1943 – June 28, 2010) was an American band manager, well known for his work with the rock band Kiss.\n\nBorn in 1943 in Ayer, Massachusetts, Aucoin attended Northeastern University and graduated with a degree in film. He worked at WGBH in Boston during his college years and after. Aucoin later worked at Teletape Productions as a cinematographer. Credited with discovering Kiss, Aucoin managed the group for nearly a decade. He was fired in 1982 due to a dispute about the band's appearance plus his drug abuse, but later worked with the band on various DVD projects.\n\nAucoin produced a television show called \"Supermarket Sweep\" in the early 1970s. From 2005 to 2007, Aucoin went into the Broadway business with a staging of The Who's \"Quadrophenia\", which showed intermittently for two years in Anaheim and Los Angeles. \n\nAucoin had reentered the management business with his company Aucoin Globe Entertainment, at the time of his death of surgical complications from prostate cancer. He was survived by partner Roman Fernandez and sisters Betty Britton and Janet Bankowski. A statement from Paul Stanley and Gene Simmons described him as \"our irreplaceable original manager, mentor and dear friend… Words cannot convey his impact on us or those close to him.\"\n"}
{"id": "8505698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8505698", "title": "Black light theatre", "text": "Black light theatre\n\nBlack light theatre (in Czech \"černé divadlo\") or simply black theatre, is a theatrical performance style characterized by the use of black box theatre augmented by black light illusion. This form of theatre originated from Asia and can be found in many places around the world. It has become a speciality of Prague, where many theatres use it.\n\nThe distinctive characteristics of \"black theatre\" are the use of black curtains, a darkened stage, and \"black lighting\" (UV light), paired with fluorescent costumes in order to create intricate visual illusions. This \"black cabinet\" technique was used by Georges Méliès, and by theatre revolutionary Konstantin Stanislavski (especially in his production of \"Cain\"). The technique, paired with the expressive artistry of dance, mime and acrobatics of the performers is able to create remarkable spectacles.\n\nA key principle of black light theatre is the inability of the human eye to distinguish black objects from a black background. This effect results in effective invisibility for any objects not illuminated by the 'black light'. The second optical principle behind black light theatre is the effect of UV light on fluorescent objects. Black lights actually emit as much light as 'normal' lights, but at a frequency that humans cannot detect. While most objects either absorb UV light or reflect it back at the same frequency at which it came in, fluorescent objects absorb UV light then re-emit it at a longer wavelength that human eyes can detect. The combined effect is that designers can make some objects appear as bright as if the room were fully lighted, while making other objects appear as dark as if the room were completely dark.\n\nThe 'black box trick' of using performers dressed in black in a dark playing space has been in use for millennia, starting with the jugglers performing for the emperor in ancient China. Japan developed this technique in its Bunraku Theatre by having puppeteers wear black in order to place complete emphasis on the puppet. In modern theatre the black box trick has been adopted up by Russian director Konstantin Stanislavski, film director George Melies, and various French avantgarde directors of the 1950s. Among these directors, George Lafaye became an earlier pioneer of black cabinet. But all these directors used the simple trick of black cabinet just for few moments during their performances mostly to make something on the stage disappear.\n\nThe father of modern black light theatre, author of the principe of black cabinet as is used nowadays (placement of spot lights, placement of uv lights, selection of black velvet as the best material to absorb residual light on the scene...) and even author of the name \"black light theatre\" and so the creator of the 1st black light theatre in the world is Jiri Srnec. The first performance of the ensemble took place in 1959 in Vienna. It became better known after its participation in the Theatre Festival in Edinburgh in 1962. Later, other groups using the technique of black box appeared starting the new wave of this theatre style.\n\nPrague has since become the home of black light theatre with around 10 black light theatre companies .\n\nAnother well-known group of black light theatre is black light theatre HILT Prague, whose performances are based on modern music and dance choreographies, and has incorporated live singing. The group was founded in 2006 by Czech dancer, choreographer, director and music composer Theodor Hoidekr. In 2016 was founded the new black light theatre style called \"shadow film theatre\" by the group HILT Prague. Except black light theatre shows they present also the first shadow film theatre - dancers and actors are playing with their shadows on the screen with projections of real places.\n\nIn 1989 the Image Theatre was founded by dancer Eva Asterova (former member of Pavel Smok's famous Czech ballet company) and Alexander Cihar. They brought new aspects into black light theatre effects such as modern dance and non-verbal acting. Under the hand of Eva Asterová, the theatre's artistic director, Image seeks to produce an individual look of at a scene’s signature. The audience also often becomes an integral part of the performance. The repertory of the Image theatre is composed of its own devised works. Apart from Eva Asterová there are also other authors cooperating repeatedly on Image Theatre's performances such as Josef Tichý, Petr Liška, René Pyš or Zdeněk Zdeněk.\nSince the beginning, Image Theatre had presented 10 different performances and in each of them they came with some new black light technique effects. Magic poetics, playfulness, and humor are the most important trademarks of this ensemble.\n\nThe Image theatre has 22 years experience in Prague’s black light theatres scene. Apart from regular performances in Prague, Image also performs internationally (Korea, Hong Hong, Macau, Israel, Turkey, India, Lebanon, Greece, Germany, France, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium, Hungary, Slovakia, Cyprus).\n\nNowadays there are many companies of black light theatre also out of Prague (Hungary, Germany, USA) trying to make shows similar to black light theatres in Prague. Prague scene has changed its face to the style of 20th century - modern dance was involved, costume designs have become more effective, black light theatre shows have become more musical.\nPrague is still home of black light theatre - hundreds thousands of tourists visit their shows every month.\n\nHILT - the black light theatre of Theodor Hoidekr was the first ever who has involved live singing into black light show. The most popular HILT´s black light theatre musical show was \"Juliet´s Dream\" premiered on 14 February 2012 in Prague. HILT is working on new style of black light theatre - all the members are experienced in black light theatres all over Prague. Its founder and director Theodor Hoidekr was originally dancer who later started to work with black light theatre style. His experiences comes from Prague, Slovakia, Germany, Malta, Greece, South America, India \n\nSince 8 April 2015 HILT performs the new show \"Phantom\" that is the world first black light theatre version of the mysterious phantom figure. The black light theatre HILT starts the new part of their history in theatre Royal Prague. In 2016 HILT has presented the first shadow film theatre Cinderella.\n\nIn 2017 HILT has moved to the Prague popular U Valsu Theatre in the centre of the Old Prague. 2.6.2017 they start to present also their best of called Phantom (best of 2007 - 2017) that is the combination show of black light theatre, shadow theatre.and projections. This show was the only Czech theatre and the only black light theatre presented at 8th World Theatre Olympics 2018 in India.\n\nThe effect of black light theatre allows invisible performers to move visible props, turning the objects into independent participants in the theatre at the same level as the human actors. Furthermore, the appearance of objects and actors in a performance can be sudden and can occur anywhere on stage, even within a few meters of an audience member. In order to achieve this effect it is necessary to create an intense field of UV light throughout the entire playing space. Because the intensity of light emitted from a typical 'black light' source diminishes significantly with increased distance from the source, covering an entire theatre space with UV light requires either that the 'black light' sources be spaced as close as one meter apart or emit much more light than a typical 'black light'. Another important consideration is that, since most of the space is completely dark, and the form is heavily dance based, a single wrong move by a single performer can negatively impact the entire production. For this reason performers train extensively specifically for the black light theatre environment.\n\nContemporary black light theatre often includes many highly technical devices, in addition to the standard 'black light' technique. Such devices can include \"flying\" performers, large video projections, and even massive puppets. These technical devices serve as a significant factor in black light theatre's worldwide popularity; since its most important devices are entirely visual, audiences throughout the world can understand most black light theatre performances. The intended result is a theatrical work that combines grand spectacle with beautiful and moving art. Major companies currently producing black light theatre include Srnec Theatre, HILT, Ta Fantastika Theatre, Image Theatre, Metro Theatre, and All Colours Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "979429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=979429", "title": "Bob Eubanks", "text": "Bob Eubanks\n\nRobert Leland Eubanks (born January 8, 1938) is an American disc jockey, television personality and game show host, best known for hosting the game show \"The Newlywed Game\" on and off since 1966. He also hosted the successful revamp version of \"Card Sharks\" from 1986 to 1989. Eubanks received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his television work in 2000. The star is in front of Grauman's Egyptian Theatre, where Eubanks worked during the first years of his broadcasting career. In 2005, he received a lifetime achievement Emmy Award from the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences.\n\nEubanks was born in Flint, Michigan, but was raised primarily in Pasadena, California, where he grew up listening to music, most notably favorites like Frank Sinatra and Doc Watson. His parents, John Otho Leland Eubanks (September 28, 1905 – April 11, 1995) and Gertrude Eubanks (née McClure) (February 15, 1907 – July 24, 1997), were originally from Missouri. They moved to Flint during the Great Depression, where their only child was born, before moving on to California. The young boy became a child model, doing photo shoots for ads and meeting his idol, Gene Autry, when he was scheduled to do an ad photo shoot with him.\n\nHe watched popular classic television and quiz game shows. Also growing up in the 1940s and 1950s, he was influenced by Cary Grant, Howard Hughes, Buddy Hackett and Bill Cullen. He attended Pasadena High School, where he graduated in 1955. After graduation from high school, he attended Pierce College (according to his commentary on a Card Sharks episode) and then went on to become one of California's most popular disc jockeys. In 1956, his first radio exposure was at KACY Radio in Oxnard, California. He joined KRLA in Pasadena in 1960 to do the overnight show. In the spring of 1962 he was promoted to morning drive, then a year later moved to his long-running 6–9 pm evening slot. During most of the 1960s, he was also a producer of concerts, such as The Beatles 1964 and 1965 Hollywood Bowl performances,and The Rolling Stones, during the first two years of their American tour. While still in Los Angeles, he also produced such artists as Barry Manilow, The Supremes, Dolly Parton, Bob Dylan, Elton John and Merle Haggard, among others. \n\nEubanks married Irma Brown, an avid athlete, ranch forewoman and artist, on September 10, 1969. They had three children: Trace, a retired firefighter; Corey, a stuntman; and Theresa. In 1970, the couple purchased a portion of a working cattle ranch, and later expanded it to . The entire family enjoyed roping and riding, with Eubanks participating in rodeos during his spare time. Eubanks is a gold card member of the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association. Irma handled interior decorating, landscaping, and mounting one to two equestrian shows a year. Irma died in 2002 after a prolonged illness.\n\nAround 2004, Eubanks married Deborah James. James is a wedding/events coordinator in Ventura, California and has her own company, Bella Vita Events. The couple has a young son, Noah. In October 2010, Eubanks and his wife put their Westlake Village, CA home on the market.\n\nIn 1966, he received a phone call from Chuck Barris to host a new game show, \"The Newlywed Game\", which premiered on ABC that same year. During its debut, it was an immediate hit, and the show's popularity led the network to expand the prime-time lineup, where it had run on the air for five years. Only 28 years old when he started hosting, Eubanks became widely popular for bringing a youthful energy to daytime television, pressing contestants into giving embarrassing and hilarious answers. \"The Newlywed Game\" was also ranked as one of the top three daytime game shows, for five consecutive years, between 1968 and 1973, and was ranked in the top three prime-time game shows, also for five years, between 1966 and 1971.\n\nWhile hosting \"The Newlywed Game\", Eubanks was known for using the catchphrase \"makin' whoopee\", in reference to marital sexual intercourse. It was Eubanks who coined the term from the song of the same name, in an attempt to keep parents with young children from the need to explain the facts of life because of a television show. While his network was comfortable with the term \"making love\", they did not allow the use of the word \"panties\".\n\nWhile not taping, he also pursued a career in the country music business, where he served as manager of such artists as Dolly Parton, Barbara Mandrell and Marty Robbins. The same year, he also signed Merle Haggard to an exclusive live-performance contract, producing more than 100 dates per year with the performer for almost a decade. His first ending of his first-run network TV show, \"The Newlywed Game\", ended in 1974, after 2,195 episodes, making Eubanks one of the most beloved and bankable game show hosts to date. He also hosted various editions in syndication, from 1977–1980, 1985–1988 and 1997–1999. For Series Two of the 2009 GSN revival, Eubanks hosted a celebrity charity episode with first host Carnie Wilson and her husband Rob Bonfiglio playing against Carnie's sister Wendy and her husband Daniel Knutson, and their mother Marilyn Wilson-Rutherford and her current husband Daniel Rutherford. In spring 2010, Eubanks hosted another episode of \"The Newlywed Game\", subtitled the \"Game Show Kings\" episode. This episode featured Monty Hall and his wife Marilyn Hall, Peter Marshall and his wife Laurie Stewart, and Wink Martindale with his wife Sandy. This makes him the only person to host the same game show in six consecutive decades (1960s, 1970s, 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s).\n\nIn 1988, Eubanks left \"The Newlywed Game\" to pursue other interests (even though he was still hosting \"Card Sharks\" on CBS for another seven months) and was replaced by Paul Rodriguez.\n\nIn 1996, Eubanks also appeared as the host of \"Prime Time Country\".\n\nAfter \"Newlywed Game\", he hosted a number of other game shows in his career, including \"Rhyme and Reason\", \"Card Sharks\", \"Dream House\", \"The Diamond Head Game\", \"Trivia Trap\", and \"\".\n\nIn 1985, Mark Goodson hired Eubanks, a second time (the first being the aforementioned Trivia Trap), to host a revamped version of the show \"Card Sharks\" for CBS. Eubanks hosted \"Card Sharks\" throughout its CBS run from January 1986 until its demise in March 1989. Prior to hosting \"Card Sharks\", he appeared as a special guest on the original NBC version alongside Jim Perry to promote his 1979 game show \"All Star Secrets\", which he also produced.\n\nHis final network game show was \"Family Secrets\". In recent years, he has hosted or co-hosted all five of NBC's \"Most Outrageous Game Show Moments\" specials. Eubanks was also one of three rotating hosts (along with Chuck Woolery and Jamie Farr) of the \"$250,000 Game Show Spectacular\" at the Las Vegas Hilton until the show closed in April 2008.\n\nBesides producing Hill-Eubanks's \"All Star Secrets\", the company also produced \"The Guinness Game\" in 1979–80, \"The Toni Tennille Show\" in 1980, Buddy Hackett's \"You Bet Your Life\" revival in 1980, and \"Infatuation\" (which Eubanks also hosted) in 1992. Between 1994 and 1995 Eubanks also traveled to Britain to host a British version of this series, \"Infatuation UK\", (produced by Thames TV) for UK cable network Living TV. Eubanks tried acting, but found he was not good at doing lines; he also learned the game show business was far more lucrative and less confining.\n\nPrior to entering game shows, Eubanks was a popular radio DJ at station KRLA 1110 in Los Angeles as well as a music promoter and manager, between 1960 and 1968. He was responsible for bringing The Beatles to Los Angeles for their first West Coast performances in 1964 and 1965 (mortgaging his house to do so), all of which took place at the famed Hollywood Bowl, with fellow KRLA DJs Dave Hull and Reb Foster joining Eubanks in introducing them. He also operated several Cinnamon Cinder nightclubs. In the early to mid 1960s, the house band at his the Traffic Circle Cinnamon Cinder club was The Vibrants.\n\nHe stood in for Casey Kasem twice on radio's \"American Top 40\": January 9–10, 1982 (that year's first regular episode), and April 16–17, 1983.\n\nIn 1992, Eubanks appeared on the TV sitcom \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\" in the episode \"Eyes on the Prize\" hosting the game show \"Double Trouble.\" That same year, he also made a cameo in the movie \"\" hosting the game show \"Ding-Dang-Dong\", where he mentioned that the show's contestants stayed at the Plaza Hotel in New York City, and also gave the phone number for reservations (which allowed Kevin McCallister, played by Macaulay Culkin, to check in).\n\nHe has also hosted the Tournament of Roses Parade on Los Angeles television channel KTLA since 1976 and with Stephanie Edwards from 1978–2005. In 2006, Eubanks continued to host with Edwards's replacement, KTLA Morning Show anchor Michaela Pereira. Edwards returned to her co-hosting position alongside Eubanks in 2009. In September 2015, Bob Eubanks and Stephanie Edwards announced on the KTLA Morning News that the 2016 parade will be their last. In 2017, they were replaced by Leeza Gibbons and Mark Steines.\n\nEubanks appeared as himself on the Nickelodeon sitcom \"Kenan & Kel\" in the episode \"The Honeymoon's Over\", which aired May 1999. He guest-starred on \"That '70s Show\" in the January 2000 episode \"Eric's Stash\".\n\nHe also hosted the some years the Miss California USA Pageant and Mrs. International Pageant, sister pageant to the Miss International (United States) Pageant, between 2000 and 2003.\n\nOn July 6, 2007, Eubanks sat in as a celebrity \"Mob Member\" on the NBC game show \"1 vs. 100\". A year after that, he appeared as a \"GSN Live\" guest on April 4, 2008 and returned on May 18, 2010. His most recent television appearance (not counting his annual KTLA Rose Parade appearances) was on \"The Amazing Race 17\" season finale, which aired December 12, 2010. In 2011, Eubanks hosted a special version of \"The Newlywed Game\", live at Champion's Week for the \"NASCAR\" \"Sprint Cup Series\".\n\nHis autobiography, \"It's in the Book, Bob\" (), was published in 2004.\n\nEubanks briefly appears in the music video for The Offspring's \"Why Don't You Get a Job?\"\n\nIn 2013, Eubanks toured with \"America's Greatest Game Shows: Live on Stage\".\n\nIn 2015, he appeared as a host of a couples game on Marriage Boot Camp: Reality Stars (WE channel).\n\nHe appeared in Michael Moore's 1989 documentary \"Roger & Me\". The film documented Moore's attempts to track General Motors CEO Roger Smith to confront him about the company's impact on Flint, Michigan and Moore's claim that it was responsible for massive downsizing. Eubanks, a native of Flint, was interviewed about his views on the downsizing, and was filmed reciting an off-color joke about AIDS:\n\nAccording to Moore in the film's DVD commentary, Eubanks attempted to denounce the film with the Anti-Defamation League for containing anti-Semitic content, despite the fact that he himself contributed the sole moment of anti-Semitic content present in the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "48290893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48290893", "title": "Borders Competitions", "text": "Borders Competitions\n\nThe Border Region: Schools & Youth Competitions structures established for the 2015-16 season group schools and clubs based on the development structures they have in place, the volume of teams they operate and results over recent seasons. The fixture programmes arranged by Scottish Rugby will guarantee blocks of 'school v school' or 'club v club' fixtures in the autumn phase of the season\n\nIn December 2013 Scottish Rugby launched its strategic initiative ‘Youth Rugby – A Strategy for Schools’. Former Scotland rugby coach Frank Hadden conducted the review for Scottish Rugby.\n\n\"In recent years youth rugby has had many changes in competition structure mainly based on the needs and wants of participating teams, some teams have thrived, some teams have struggled but change has been a constant and it is obvious that the current structure continues to be affected by; withdrawal of teams from leagues, weather, lack of competitive fixtures for some teams, a disjointed approach to fixturing, a reluctance by some to play on a regular basis. There is no doubt that the structure for youth rugby has reached a point where a radical change in approach is required to bring stability to our game.\"\n\nU18 Border Semi Junior League - Clubs\n\nU16 Border U16 League - Clubs\n\nS3 (U15) - Schools\n\nS2 (U14) - Schools\n\nS1 (U13) - Schools\n\n\"Fixtures, results and tables for the Border Semi-Junior League\"\n\n- Two teams are based in Northumberland, England - Berwick Colts and Tynedale RFC\n\n\"Fixtures, results and tables for the Border U16 League\"\n\n- One club is based in Northumberland, England - Berwick RFC. The club are affiliated to both the Scottish Rugby Union and the English Rugby Football Union.\n"}
{"id": "58719681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58719681", "title": "By the Fire Side (Ghanaian TV program)", "text": "By the Fire Side (Ghanaian TV program)\n\nBy The Fire Side is a Ghanaian children's education television program which mainly focuses on the telling of true historical and current stories. The format of the program is children sitting around while the story teller sits in the middle. It was mostly aired on GTV.\n"}
{"id": "49507425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49507425", "title": "Chris Markoff", "text": "Chris Markoff\n\nChris Markoff is a Yugoslavian/American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with professional wrestling promotions in the Midwestern United States in the 1960s.\n\nMarkoff was born in Yugoslavia and raised in Minneapolis, Minnesota in the United States.\n\nMarkoff began his career in the Minneapolis-based American Wrestling Association in the mid-1960s. Managed by Professor Steve Druk, he feuded with The Crusher. He became AWA World Tag Team Champion with Harley Race in January 1967 after Race's original partner, Larry Hennig, sustained a broken leg. Their reign ended in November 1967 when they were defeated by Pat O'Connor and Wilbur Snyder.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Markoff began wrestling for the Indianapolis, Indiana-based World Wrestling Association, where he formed a tag team with Angelo Poffo called \"The Devil's Duo\". Markoff and Poffo won the WWA World Tag Team Championship in 1966 and again in 1967.\n\nIn the late-1960s, Markoff began competing for Championship Wrestling from Florida. He won the NWA Florida Tag Team Championship in 1969 and again in 1972.\n\nIn 1969, Markoff wrestled for the Los Angeles, California-based promotion NWA Hollywood Wrestling. Over the course of the year, he won the NWA Americas Tag Team Championship with Bronko Lubich, the NWA \"Beat the Champ\" Television Championship, and the NWA Pacific Coast Heavyweight Championship \"(Los Angeles version)\" three times.\n\nIn 1972, Markoff toured Japan with the Japan Wrestling Association, wrestling a series of matches against Apache Bull Ramos. Antagonism between Markoff and Ramos resulted in a legitimate brawl in a restaurant during which Ramos bit off part of Markoff's ear and Markoff bit off the tip of Ramos' finger.\n\nIn 1978, Markoff wrestled in New Zealand for All Star Pro Wrestling, briefly holding the NWA British Empire/Commonwealth Championship. In the same year, he wrestled in Hawaii for 50th State Big Time Wrestling, holding the NWA Hawaii Tag Team Championship with Steve Strong.\n\nIn 1981, Markoff joined the Charlotte, North Carolina-based Jim Crockett Promotions, where he formed a tag team with Nikolai Volkoff called \"The Imperial Russians\". Managed by Lord Alfred Hayes, the duo won the NWA Mid-Atlantic Tag Team Championship later that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "27042625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27042625", "title": "Class sketch", "text": "Class sketch\n\nThe Class sketch is a comedy sketch first broadcast in an episode of David Frost's satirical comedy programme \"The Frost Report\" on 7 April 1966. It has been described as a \"genuinely timeless sketch, ingeniously satirising the British class system\" and in 2005 was voted number 40 in Channel Four's \"Britain's 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches\". It was written by Marty Feldman and John Law, and features John Cleese, Ronnie Barker, and Ronnie Corbett.\n\nCleese, tall and patrician in appearance and demeanour, represents the upper class; Barker, of average height, the middle class, and Corbett, short in stature, the working class. Each in turn describes their social advantages and disadvantages, and contrasts them with their neighbours, an effect emphasised by the actors' relative heights as they look downwards or upwards to each other: \n\nIt is this situation that gives Corbett the pay-off line; as the others describe their advantages in the form of \"I get ... (e.g. a sense of superiority)\", his character finally looks up at the others and says \"I get a pain in the back of my neck.\"\n\nThe British Film Institute commented, \"Its twinning of height and social position, combined with a minimal script, created a classic TV moment.\" The sketch's influence has persisted to the present day, having been referred to in 21st-century discussions of politics, sociology, and even football.\n\nRonnie Barker wrote scripts for three further \"Three Classes\" sketches featuring the same characters, comparing their family life, their leisure activities, and their work.\n\nA spinoff sketch was broadcast on the BBC Millennium programme, satirising three eras of English history. Stephen Fry represents Modern Man, Barker a miller from the Renaissance, and Corbett a weaver serf from the Middle Ages. The basic premise of the sketch is no different from the original. The sketch was incorporated into \"The Nearly Complete and Utter History of Everything\".\n\nThe estates of Marty Feldman and John Law have apparently being aggressively pursuing copyright on the sketch which makes it difficult to access today.\n"}
{"id": "2273534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273534", "title": "Clifford's Puppy Days", "text": "Clifford's Puppy Days\n\nClifford's Puppy Days is an American animated children's television series that originally aired on both PBS and PBS Kids from September 15, 2003 to February 23, 2006. A prequel to the original \"Clifford the Big Red Dog\", it features the adventures of Clifford during his puppy days before he became a big red dog and before moving to Birdwell Island.\n\nThe series was cancelled in February 2006 following low ratings, with very few PBS stations re-running it afterwards. Since then, occasional reruns continue to air.\n\nIn the UK the show aired on CBeebies from 2004 to early 2011 and like the original series, the show was dubbed with British voice actors, replacing the original American soundtrack.\n\nSet two years before the events of \"Clifford the Big Red Dog\", the series focuses on when Clifford is a tiny red puppy, the runt of the litter in a litter of puppies given birth to by the pet dog of Emily Elizabeth's neighbor, Mr. Bradley (who appeared in an episode of the first cartoon series, \"Little Clifford\") and after he had been adopted by Emily Elizabeth and before he grew up into a giant red adult dog, forcing the Howards to move to Birdwell Island so Clifford would have plenty of room, the series shows Clifford and Emily Elizabeth's life and friends before they moved from the city to Birdwell Island and all of their adventures.\n\nThe show followed the same format as its predecessor, \"Clifford the Big Red Dog\".\n\n\n\nEach half-hour episode was divided into 2 stories.\n\nSeason 1\n\nSeason 2\n\nAfter the show's cancellation in 2006, the show aired reruns on very few PBS stations. However, it airs occasionally on the new 24/7 PBS Kids Channel, which is carried on many PBS member stations.\n\nThe opening theme, \"Love Makes Little Things Grow\", was composed by Jared Faber and Emily Kapnek and performed by Freedom Bremner.\n\n"}
{"id": "18935238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935238", "title": "Content Scramble System", "text": "Content Scramble System\n\nThe Content Scramble System (CSS) is a digital rights management (DRM) and encryption system employed on many commercially produced DVD-Video discs. CSS utilizes a proprietary 40-bit stream cipher algorithm. The system was introduced around 1996 and was first compromised in 1999.\n\nCSS is one of several complementary systems designed to restrict DVD-Video access.\n\nIt has been superseded by newer DRM schemes such as Content Protection for Recordable Media (CPRM), or by Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) in the Advanced Access Content System (AACS) DRM scheme used by HD DVD and Blu-ray Disc, which have 56-bit and 128-bit key sizes, respectively, providing a much higher level of security than the less secure 40-bit key size of CSS.\n\nThe content scramble system (CSS) is a collection of proprietary protection mechanisms for DVD-Video discs. CSS attempts to restrict access to the content only for licensed applications. According to the DVD Copy Control Association (CCA), which is the consortium that grants licenses, CSS is supposed to protect the intellectual property rights of the content owner.\n\nThe details of CSS are only given to licensees for a fee. The license, which binds the licensee to a non-disclosure agreement, wouldn't permit the development of open-source software for DVD-Video playback. Instead, there is libdvdcss, a reverse engineered implementation of CSS. Libdvdcss is a source for documentation, along with the publicly available DVD-ROM- and MMC- specifications. There has also been some effort to collect CSS details from various sources.\n\nA DVD-Video can be produced with or without CSS. The publisher may for instance decide to go without CSS protection to save license and production costs.\n\nThe content scramble system deals with three participants: the disc, the drive and the player. The disc holds the copyright information and the encrypted feature. The drive provides the means to read the disc. The player decrypts and presents the audio and visual content of the feature. All participants must conform to the CCA's license agreement.\n\nThere are three protection methods:\n\nThe first two protection methods have been broken. Circumvention of regional protection is not possible with every drive -- even if the drive grants access to the feature, prediction of title keys may fail. However, drives which do not enforce regional restrictions are inexpensive and widely available, which makes regional restrictions largely ineffective as a component of CSS.\n\nThe DVD-ROM's main-data (§16), which are consecutive logical blocks of 2048 bytes, are structured according to the DVD-Video format. The DVD-Video contains (besides others) an MPEG program stream which consists of so-called Packs. If CSS is applied to the disc then a subset of all Packs is encrypted with a title-key.\n\nA DVD-ROM contains, besides the main-data, additional data areas. CSS stores there:\n\nCSS also uses six bytes in the frame header for each logical block of user data (§16.3,§6.29.3.1.5):\n\nThe drive treats a DVD-Video disc as any DVD-ROM disc. The player reads the disc's user-data and processes them according to the DVD-Video format. However, if the drive detects a disc that has been compiled with CSS, it denies access to logical blocks that are marked as copyrighted (§6.15.3). The player has to execute an authentication handshake first (§4.10.2.2). The authentication handshake is also used to retrieve the disc-key-block and the title-keys.\n\nThe drive may also support Regional Playback Control (RPC) to limit the playback of DVD-Video content to specific regions of the world (§3.3.26). RPC Phase II drives hold an 8-bit region-code and adhere to all requirements of the CSS license agreement (§6.29.3.1.7). It appears that RPC Phase II drives reject title-key requests on region mismatch. However, reading of user-data may still work.\n\nCSS employs a stream cipher and mangles the keystream with the plain-text data to produce the cipher text. The stream cipher is based on two linear feedback shift register (LFSR) and set up with a 40-bit seed.\n\nMangling depends on the type of operation. There are three types: \n\nIn order to decrypt a DVD-Video, the player reads the disc-key-block and uses its player-key to decrypt the disc-key. Thereafter, the player reads the title-keys and decrypts them with the disc-key. A different title-key can be assigned for the Video Manager and for each Video Title Set. The title-keys are used to decrypt the Packs.\n\nCSS employs cryptographic keys with a size of only 40 bits. This makes CSS vulnerable to a brute-force attack. At the time CSS was introduced, it was forbidden in the United States for manufacturers to export cryptographic systems employing keys in excess of 40 bits, a key length that had already been shown to be wholly inadequate in the face of increasing computer processing power (see Data Encryption Standard).\n\nBased on the leaked DeCSS source-code, Frank A. Stevenson published in November 1999 three exploits that rendered the CSS cipher practically ineffective:\nThe latter exploit recovers a disk-key from its hash-value in less than 18 seconds on an Intel Pentium III @ 450 MHz.\n\nThe CSS design was prepared for the leak of a few player-keys. New discs wouldn't contain an encrypted variant for these player-keys in the disc-key-block. However, Stevenson's exploits made it possible to generate all player-keys. Libdvdcss uses such a list of generated player-keys.\n\nThere are cases when no title-keys are available. A drive may deny access on region mismatch but still permit reading of the encrypted DVD-Video. Ethan Hawke presented a plain-text prediction for data repetitions in the MPEG program stream that enables the recovery of title-keys in real-time directly from the encrypted DVD-Video.\n\nIn \"Geeks Bearing Gifts\", author Ted Nelson states \"DVD encryption was intentionally made light by the DVD encryption committee, based on arguments in a libertarian book Computer Lib.\", a claim cited as originating from personal communication with an anonymous source; Nelson is the author of \"Computer Lib\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37430280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37430280", "title": "Cristina Patwa", "text": "Cristina Patwa\n\nCristina \"Cris\" Magno Patwa is the co-CEO of FactoryMade Ventures, a Los Angeles-based entertainment and media incubator. \n\nPatwa, who grew up in the Philippines, attended Boston University. Following her graduation, she attended the Anderson School of Management at UCLA, and was awarded an MBA in 2007. She was licensed as a CPA in California in 2011.\n\nAfter a brief tenure at Fox Filmed Entertainment, Patwa was hired by Disney ABC Television as a director of business development. She remained at Disney ABC until 2008, when she joined William Morris Endeavor (WME) as Vice President, Intellectual Property. She was named Senior Vice President and Head of Strategic Planning and Business Development in 2009.\n\nAt WME, in addition to working with Telefonica and JC Penney, Patwa served as an advisor to Hasbro on the \"Transformers\" and \"\" film franchises. She consulted on the creation of Hasbro Studios' Hub Network (with Discovery Communications) and on the development and launch of HSN's HSN Arcade. Patwa worked closely with WME founding board member John Fogelman during her three-year tenure at the company.\n\nIn 2011, Patwa and Fogelman left WME to found FactoryMade Ventures. At launch, the company announced initial alliances with Telefonica, Hasbro, RTL Group, Michael Bay, Robert Rodriguez, Thom Beers and Whoopi Goldberg, in addition to J.J. Abrams, who was then a principal investor. Abrams withdrew from the company in January 2012, reportedly due to his schedule. In November 2014, Mitsui & Co. purchased a minority stake in FactoryMade.\n\nIn December 2013, FactoryMade partnered with Robert Rodriguez to create the El Rey network, an English language American television channel targeting Latino audiences. In addition to serving on the board of directors for El Rey, Patwa is an executive producer for Rodriguez' original series \"\", and El Rey’s second original scripted series, \"Matador\". She is on the board of directors for Tres Pistoleros Studios, which she co-founded, and is an executive producer for the studio's \"Director's Chair,\" \"Lucha Underground,\" \"Cutting Crew\" and, with Scott and Dierdre Gurney, an untitled \"Vice\" Mexico series.\n\n"}
{"id": "53163344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53163344", "title": "Dead cat strategy", "text": "Dead cat strategy\n\nDead cat strategy, or Deadcatting, refers to the introduction of a dramatic, shocking, or sensationalist topic to divert discourse away from a more damaging topic.\n\nIdentification of examples may be considered subjective; some articles citing the technique are listed for illustration:\n\n"}
{"id": "2199627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199627", "title": "Dual role", "text": "Dual role\n\nDual role (also known as double role, triple role and multiple role) refers to one actor playing two or more roles, which may be deliberately scripted in a play or film, or merely be a by-product of a low budget. In a theatrical production where more than one actor plays multiple characters, it is sometimes referred to as an \"Ironman\" cast. In film and television, a dual role is commonly used either for comic effect or to depict identical twins.\n\nIn theatre, the use of multiple roles may be budget-related, may be intended to give an accomplished actor more stage time or a greater challenge, or may be of thematic significance to the story. The combination of factors leading to such a decision may often remain unknown. For example, debate exists over the significance of William Shakespeare's use of dual roles, with a notable example being whether the characters of Cordelia and the Fool in \"King Lear\" were intended to be one and the same.\n\nMore recent examples include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Prisoner of Zenda\", based on a book about a lookalike who assumes the identity of a king, includes a dual role that has been played by Lewis Stone (1922 version), Ronald Colman (1937 version), Stewart Granger (1952 version), and Peter Sellers (1979 version).\n\nAn early and unusual example of double casting was the 1925 silent film \"Lady of the Night\", in which two women were portrayed by Norma Shearer to spotlight their very different social classes, and nobody took any notice of their identical appearance.\n\nIn \"The Wizard of Oz\" (1939), the actors who played the Tin Man, the Cowardly Lion, and the Scarecrow also played farmhands in scenes set in Kansas. Margaret Hamilton played both the roles of Miss Gulch and the Wicked Witch of the West, and Frank Morgan played multiple characters in addition to the title role of the Wizard.\n\nLee Marvin won an Academy Award for Best Actor for a dual role in \"Cat Ballou\" (1965), and Nicolas Cage was nominated for Best Actor for a dual role in \"Adaptation\" (2002).\n\nIn some low-budget films, actors have been cast in more than one role to save money. For example, in one of Peter Jackson's early films, \"Bad Taste\", Jackson played two characters; in one scene, one of them tortures the other.\n\nMultiple casting has been used for comic effect in film, with notable examples that include:\n\nParticularly in comedies, multiple casting has often included the casting of an actor as multiple members of the same family. For example:\n\nPrior to Bollywood, the first double role in Indian cinema was played by Ashok Kumar in his film \"Kismet\" in 1943. Tamil film actor M. N. Nambiar played eleven parts in the early 1950s film \"Digambara Samiyar\", as a sage using nine disguises to defeat an evil lawyer.\n\nStarting in the 1970s, having a living double in a Bollywood film became \"almost a genre in itself,\" according to filmmaker Govind Nihalani. The first double role in Bollywood, played by Amitabh Bachchan, was in the film \"Bandhe Haath\" in 1973. \"Angoor\" (1982) featured two pairs of identical twins, played by Sanjeev Kumar and Deven Verma. Another Tamil actor, Kamal Hassan, had ten roles in the 2008 film \"Dasavathaaram (The Ten Avatars)\". Sivaji Ganesan played nine roles in the Tamil film \"Navarathiri\". Priyanka Chopra played the roles of twelve eligible girls in the movie \"What's Your Raashee?\", and Mehmood Ali portrayed three generations of the Kapoor family (Prithviraj, Raj, and Randhir) in the movie \"Humjoli\".\n\nIn television, soap operas commonly use the technique to either portray twins (or even similar looking relatives), or to bring an actor back whose character has been killed. This technique is uncommon, although not unheard of, in primetime television. In \"Friends\", Lisa Kudrow plays Phoebe and her twin sister Ursula. David Schwimmer played a character in heavy make-up named Russ, who was a parody of Ross (played by Schwimmer), both of whom appear on screen together.\n\nIn the 1967 \"\" episode titled \"\", as well as its sequels in episodes of three later \"Star Trek\" series (\"\", \"\", and \"\"), several of the regular characters visited or switched places with morally-inverted counterparts from a parallel Mirror Universe, with the actors playing dual roles.\n\nIn the third season of \"Fargo\", Ewan McGregor was cast in the lead dual role as the brothers Emmit and Ray Stussy.\n\n\"The Vampire Diaries\" franchise features Nina Dobrev playing four roles (doppelgangers Elena Gilbert, Katerina Petrova, Tatia, and their progenitor Amara) and Paul Wesley playing three roles (doppelgangers Stefan Salvatore, Tom Avery, and their progenitor Silas).\n\n\"The Lying Game\" and \"Liv and Maddie\" both feature twins played by the same actress (Alexandra Chando and Dove Cameron, respectively).\n"}
{"id": "45008852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45008852", "title": "Dumas Brothel", "text": "Dumas Brothel\n\nThe Dumas Brothel was a bordello in Butte, Montana. The brothel was founded by French Canadian brothers Joseph and Arthur Nadeau in 1890 and named after the nominal owner, Delia Nadeau, Dumas, who was Joseph's wife. It grew considerably through the years, with the miners employed by the city's copper mines often patronizing the establishment. After several changes of the \"madams\" and continuing pressure from authorities, the brothel closed in 1982, described as \"a rare, intact commentary on social history\". At the time of its closure, it was the longest operating brothel in the United States, having operated years after prostitution was made illegal. After closing, the brothel changed hands several times, eventually becoming a tourist attraction owned and managed by a series of Butte residents.\n\nIn the 1870s, a group of women, called \"ladies of the line\", began selling sexual services on Park Street, in the north of the city of Butte, Montana. When the tents and shacks on the street were replaced with legitimate businesses some years later, the \"Park Street girls\", as they had come to be known, moved to the south of the city. By the mid-1880s, a variety of dance halls, gambling houses and saloons had appeared in the city. By 1888, Butte's East Galena Street was lined with brothels; in fact, nearly every building on the street housed prostitution. This area of Galena Street would come to be known as the \"twilight zone\". Paramount to these establishments was the Casino Theater, a mixture of a saloon, dance hall and brothel. In the late 19th century, several prominent Montanans owned brothels in Butte, including Lee Mantle, who would go on to be a United States Senator, and Anton M. Holter, a wealthy businessman from Helena, Montana.\n\nTwo French Canadian brothers, Joseph and Arthur Nadeau, would eventually acquire the most property in Butte's prostitution areas, or \"red light district\". The brothers built a brothel in 1890 on 45 East Mercury Street and named it for Delia Nadeau, Dumas, Joseph's wife. By the turn of the century, there were three high-class sex houses in Butte: the Hotel Victoria, the Windsor Hotel and the Dumas Brothel, also called the Dumas Hotel.\n\nThe Dumas Brothel Museum is a two-story brick building at the north side of east Mercury street in the historic city of Butte, Montana. It also includes a basement level containing clandestine underground tunnels. There is a single story addition that was added to the rear of the main structure in 1912, and this leads directly onto the infamous brick- lined \"Venus Alley\", once the hub of Butte's red light district. The original structure features original vaulted skylights, and the upper level is surrounded by an interior balcony, which still provides a birds eye view for on-lookers to glimpse the suites (or \"cribs\") below. The basement afforded much more basic accommodations, and was built to connect the Dumas to Butte's business corridor via a subterranean tunnel system. \n\nThe Dumas Brothel was purchased by natives Michael Piche and Travis Eskelsen, who have been working to restore the building. They operate a museum and provide tours of the brothel beginning each spring and lasting until fall. Recently, they have added an antique shop and a souvenir gift shop, with plans to come that include opening a bed and breakfast at the site. After the death of Piche in 2018, Eskelsen put the building up for sale.\n\nScant details are known about the early history of the Dumas Brothel; however, two early boarders of the house listed their occupations as \"gambler\" and \"saloon man\" in census records. By 1900 the brothel was occupied by Madam Grace McGinnis, her servant, a Chinese cook and four prostitutes. The cost of sex in the brothel at the turn of the 20th century was fifty cents, with the working girls receiving about 40 percent of that amount. Despite the size of the brothel, by 1902 Madame McGinnis had only five working girls and a musician under her employment. In 1903 the Dumas and businesses like it in Butte's red light district were unusually lucrative ventures. These businesses were frequented by miners from the local Anaconda Copper Mining Company. That year, traffic grew to a point where the Dumas's operations had to be expanded, building \"cribs\" (tiny cubicles where the girls worked) in the basement of the house. There were several ways potential clients could access the brothel. A back door of the Dumas opened into Pleasant Alley, near South Wyoming Street, which was the busiest section of Butte's red light area. The basement cribs could also be accessed by a staircase from the front sidewalk. Even though the Dumas operated 24 hours a day with several girls taking three shifts, by 1910 there were only two women reported to actually be living there. Instead the prostitutes lived in other parts of Pleasant Alley, and commuted to the brothel for their shifts. In Butte, the activities of the city's prostitutes were generally restricted to Galena and Mercury Street. From the windows of their street-facing cribs, the girls would attract prospective clients while being in varying states of undress. The \"Butte Miner\", a local newspaper, explained how the girls did this:\n\nThe Dumas's business and those like it were criticized by a number of people who sought to reform the red light district. Reverend William Biederwolf condemned Butte as \"the lowest sinkhole of vice in the west,\" and that he saw \"enough legitimate vice in Butte to damn the souls of every young man and young woman in it.\" Biederwolf held revival services for residents which attracted \"rounders, gamblers and habitués of the red light district\". However, the local business benefited and even depended on the support of the sex workers at the Dumas and other establishments like it. The prostitutes would buy their dresses at local clothiers, frequent the city's dry cleaners and would patronize Chinese herbalists, looking for birth control potions and venereal disease remedies. To ensure that their operations were unhampered, the girls at the Dumas would pay the city's police and governance five dollar \"fines\". Instead of the closing or relocating the red light district, the mayor and police of Butte ordered that the women wear longer skirts and high-necked blouses and that they \"refrain from any indecent exposures.\" After these ordinances were put in place, the \"Butte Miner\" reported that \"nothing was seen in the district except long dresses and long faces. What the women say about the matter is not fit for publication.\" By 1910 the people were petitioning Mayor Charles Nevin to shut down the district; with the district contributing two thousand dollars to the city's coffers every month, the efforts eventually died.\n\nIn 1913 the brothel was expanded again. A one-story structure was added to the building, increasing the number of cribs by eight; four of the added cribs opened directly onto Pleasant Alley, by that time known as Venus Alley. When copper prices went up, the more than 14,000 miners in the city experienced a pay-rise of twenty-five cents and injected an additional $6,000 into Butte's economy. The Dumas also experienced an upswing in patronage. As a result of the added patronage, the brothel added five partitions and a staircase in 1916, and the ground floor, once a grand parlor, was partitioned into cribs.\nWorld War I and the Prohibition impelled local lawmakers to initiate a crackdown on Butte's red light district; by 1917, the district was effectively closed. Signs saying \"Men Under 21 Keep Out\" were commonplace, and in the next census, prostitution had completely disappeared as a declared profession in Butte. The Dumas, however, remained in operation. In 1925 Anne Vallet began overseeing the Dumas for the Nadeau family, and in the 1930s, operations had passed to Madam Rose Davis. In 1940 Lillian Walden and her husband Dick began running the brothel, raising the price of sex at the brothel to $2. Three years later, the US government ordered all brothels shut down to prevent the spread of venereal diseases among soldiers in World War II. In response, the Dumas began operating even more furtively, now under the guise of being a boardinghouse. The \"window-shopping\" was abandoned completely and a heavy steel door was installed at the back of the Dumas with a small sliding window; customers would only gain entrance after the sliding window was opened and their identity was acknowledged. Additionally, doorbells were added and a code system for dealing with troublesome guests was also employed.\n\nWhen Lillian Walden retired in 1950, the price for a woman at the brothel was $5. Afterwards, the Dumas's operations went to Elinore Knott. The Nadeaus also ceased being owners of the brothel around this time. Knott's management of the Dumas was short. In 1955 she committed suicide after her lover died of a heart attack. When the late 1960s came about, several local police officers were taking the initiative to close the three operating high-class sex houses: Hotel Victoria, Windsor Hotel and the Dumas. The Dumas did not remain closed for long however, with its next madam, Bonita Farren, operating it from 1955 until her death from cancer in 1969. In 1970 the Dumas was listed in the National Register of Historic Places as a \"Victorian Brothel\" and an active house of prostitution. By the following year, Ruby Garret, a local resident of Butte for some thirty years, had purchased the Dumas. Garret would pay local police officers and officials $200 to $300 a month in return for their silence about the Dumas's activities. Under Garrett, the cost of a prostitute was $20. She would come upon financial difficulties however, being charged with tax evasion in 1981. The Dumas Brothel was closed the following year.\n\nIn 1982 Ruby Garrett, the last madam of the Dumas, was convicted of federal tax evasion and served six months in prison. The brothel was closed soon after, but not before a robbery took place there. When it closed, it was the longest operating brothel in the United States, having operated for 92 years, long after prostitution was outlawed.\n\nGarret sold the Dumas to an antiques dealer named Rudy Giecek on the condition that it was preserved in its original state. Giecek turned the brothel into a museum and operated it as such for most of the 1990s. However, in 1998 Giecek encountered financial difficulties and attempted to sell the building. The International Sex Worker Foundation for Art, Culture and Education (ISWFACE) responded. The ISWFACE sought to reopen the Dumas as not only a museum but also a gallery and convention center. Ellen Baumler of the National Register of Historic Places wrote in support for the rescue of the Dumas that \"[it] is not only significant as the last standing parlor house in this area of Butte, but also because of its length of operation as a rare, intact commentary on social history.\" Some were against the restoration of the Dumas, including former prostitutes in Butte, but the operation proceeded—at least until September 2000, when Giecek claimed the ISWFACE owed him $52,000 in wages for work performed at the Dumas. Giecek sued and was granted the wages he petitioned for and additional penalties. The business deal with ISWFACE was terminated however. In the years that followed, the Dumas was put up for auction twice as Giecek did not have the money to maintain the building.\n\nIn late May 2005 Giecek was escorting a \"New York Times\" reporter through the Dumas for an interview when he discovered the place had been broken into. Giecek, low on funds and worried about his health, had shut down the Dumas earlier that month after it had operated offering $5 tours. After the robbery, Giecek discovered \"dismantled beds, stolen antique lamps and artwork and emptied glass cases full of brothel artifacts\" as well as missing \"rare sex toys\".\n\nIn June 2012 the Dumas was conveyed to new owners, locals Michael Piche and Travis Eskelson. By this time however, the building was in great disrepair; among other things, there was water damage, a collapsed wall and no structurally sound roof. The new owners planned to have summer tours for $8 in the following year, but their ultimate goal was turning the Dumas into a bed and breakfast. \"It needs to be around. It needs to be here for the rest of the community and the people who want to visit it,\" said Piche. In late 2013 the duo sought a loan from the local urban revitalization body in Butte. The requested amount was $92,000 with an additional $8,750 grant. As of December 2013, tours were still being offered at the Dumas on a limited basis.\n\nRudy Giecek claims that the Dumas is haunted by the ghost of Elinore Knott. Author Karen Stevens also recalled paranormal experiences related to the brothel. It is suggested that Knott's ghost is one of several at the Dumas.\n\n"}
{"id": "16866957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16866957", "title": "Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria", "text": "Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria\n\nThe Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) is Nigeria's publicly funded radio broadcasting organization. Its subsidiary is the domestic radio network known as Radio Nigeria, with FM stations across the 36 states and Zonal station in the 6 geopolitical zones that broadcast on the SW.\n\nThe Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria was founded in 1933 by the British colonial government. Named the Radio Diffusion Service (RDS), it allowed the public to hear the British Broadcasting Corporation's foreign radio service broadcasts in certain public locations over loudspeakers.\n\nIn April 1950, the RDS became the Nigerian Broadcasting Service and introduced radio stations in Lagos, Kaduna, Enugu, Ibadan, and Kano. This service was reorganized into the Nigerian Broadcasting Corporation (NBC) on April 1, 1957, by act of parliament. Its mission was to \"provide, as a public service, independent and impartial broadcasting services\". By 1962 the NBC had expanded its broadcast stations into Sokoto, Maiduguri, Ilorin, Zaria, Jos, and Katsina in the north; Port Harcourt, Calabar, and Onitsha in the East; and Abeokuta, Warri, and Ijebu-Ode in the West. Each of these stations was considered a subsidiary station of a regional station. The subsidiary stations broadcast local interest programs during part of the day, and then relayed programming from their regional station during the rest of the broadcast day. National programs were broadcast from two shortwave transmitters and one medium wave transmitter located in Sogunle, near Lagos.\n\nIn late 1960, the Federal Parliament amended the NBC Ordinance to allow the sale of commercial advertisements. The first ads ran on October 31, 1961, and were broadcast from Lagos. By 1962 regional and provincial broadcasters began selling ads to local businesses. The goal of allowing radio advertisements was to help provide additional funding to NBC stations beyond that received from the government.\n\nThe Federal Parliament approved the creation of the Voice of Nigeria (VON) external shortwave service in 1961. Broadcasts began on January 1, 1961, from Lagos State. Its initial operations were limited to two hours a day to West Africa, but by 1963 VON had expanded both its coverage and transmission times with the addition of five additional transmitters.\nIn April 1961, with financial assistance from the Ford Foundation and technical assistance from the British Broadcasting Corporation, NBC began the National School Broadcasting Service in April 1961. The NBC Schools unit broadcast lessons in various school subjects for primary and secondary schools, as well as special programs for teacher training colleges. The Schools unit was based in Ibadan.\n\nThe NBC and the Broadcasting Corporation of Northern Nigeria (BCNN) were merged in 1978 to become the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN). Mediumwave transmitters previously owned by the NBC were transferred to the individual state governments where the transmitters were located. At the same time, the states transferred shortwave transmitters to the FRCN.\n\nIn 1996, VON installed three high power transmitters at its Ikorodu transmitter site, allowing worldwide transmissions for the first time.\n\nFRCN's medium wave service, Radio Nigeria, has 25 stations located throughout the country, and together with Voice of Nigeria, considers itself to have the largest radio network in Africa. In 2007, FRCN began introducing FM transmitters in some locations, and plans to begin upgrading and modernizing its shortwave and medium wave transmitters in the coming years\n\n"}
{"id": "3293210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3293210", "title": "Gambling Act 2005", "text": "Gambling Act 2005\n\nThe Gambling Act 2005 (2005 c 19) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It mainly applies to England and Wales, and to Scotland, and is designed to control all forms of gambling. It transfers authority for licensing gambling from the magistrates' courts to local authorities (specifically unitary authorities, and the councils of metropolitan borough, non-metropolitan district and London boroughs), or to Scottish licensing boards. The Act also created the Gambling Commission.\n\nThe Act gives its objectives as\nSome provisions of the bill faced controversy, particularly in its original form, where it would have allowed eight so-called \"super casinos\" to be set up. With the Parliamentary session drawing to a close, a compromise was agreed to reduce this to one. Despite a lengthy bidding process, with Manchester being chosen as the single planned location, the development was cancelled soon after Gordon Brown became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The Act also specifically regulates Internet gambling for the first time. \n\nThe law permits gambling companies to advertise on television and radio.\n\nThe act is wide-ranging including regulation of lotteries. The \"no purchase necessary\" clause on on-product promotions and semi-legal competitions went, replaced with the so-called \"New Zealand Model\" where purchase may be a requirement, if the purchase is at the \"normal selling price\".\n\nThe Act, together with regulations and specifications developed by the Gambling Commission, define and in some cases redefine, categories of gaming machines and where they are allowed to be placed.\n\nFrom 1 December 2014, the Gambling (Licensing & Advertising) Act 2014 contributed several updates to the Act, including a requirement that all off-shore gambling brands apply for a licence from the Gambling Commission and submit to a 15% point of consumption (POC) tax on gross profits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12663013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12663013", "title": "Gods (comics)", "text": "Gods (comics)\n\nGods or God, in comics, may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "201062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201062", "title": "Grammy Award for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal", "text": "Grammy Award for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal\n\nThe Grammy Award for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal was awarded between 1980 and 2011.\n\nThe award was discontinued after the 2011 award season in a major overhaul of Grammy categories. From 2012, all solo or duo/group performances (including instrumental performance) in the rock category were shifted to the newly formed Best Rock Performance category.\n\nU2 hold the record for most awards with a total of seven, followed by Aerosmith with a total of four.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9053942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9053942", "title": "Hammer Heads", "text": "Hammer Heads\n\nHammer Heads is an action arcade game similar to Whac-A-Mole. It is developed by Nuclide Games and distributed by PopCap Games.\n\nThe objective of the game is to smash the gnomes coming from the holes in the game area. The player controls a hammer with the mouse, and clicking on the gnomes reduces their hearts, displayed on the bottom of the gnome, depending on the power of the hammer. The default hammer takes away one heart, but more powerful hammers can be bought at the shop. There are various gnomes in the game, with different health and characteristics. Care must be taken to avoid clicking on traps, such as bombs. The player starts with five hearts, which is reduced when a click misses, a gnome escapes, or a trap is activated. They can be recovered by clicking on the hearts dropped by gnomes, or purchasing them from the shop. If you hit the item (such as snake or roller skates) on the background, 500 points will be awarded. The maximum amount of hearts can be raised by making a purchase at the shop as well. If all of the hearts run out, the game is over.\n\nStarting on level five (six in the Deluxe version), the shop begins popping up from holes. If clicked, the player is taken to a new screen where they can buy several things, such as hammers, hearts, and other powerups. Coins are used to purchase items from the shop. There are various way to obtain coins, such as picking them up when left behind by gnomes, completing a bonus round, or defeating certain gnomes and/or in a certain manner.\n\nThe deluxe version of \"Hammer Heads\" includes a checkpoint system for the regular classic mode. If the player loses all hearts, he/she may continue from a certain level. A new checkpoint is available every five levels. If the player quits the game, the game suspends progress, and the player can continue exactly where he/she started. Hammer Heads Deluxe also includes a marathon mode, which is similar to classic mode, however, the player is given no checkpoints and the game can last indefinitely. \"Hammer Heads Deluxe\" has a trophy system similar to \"Chuzzle Deluxe\". When a certain objective is met, a trophy is received and added to the trophy room, where the player can check the trophies earned, as well as find out how to earn the rest. There is also a boss enemy called \"King Globus\" at the end with approx. 3500 hit points. Defeating the boss unlocks the \"Tough Cookie\" option, a higher difficulty setting.\n\nPopCap offers a free online version at their site. It is more limited than the deluxe version, which can be downloaded as a free trial for one hour. After the hour has passed, the player must purchase the game.\n\n"}
{"id": "44548817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44548817", "title": "Hoodslam", "text": "Hoodslam\n\nHoodslam is an underground professional wrestling event that takes place in Oakland, California. Created in 2010 by Sam Khandaghabadi as a regular gathering for wrestlers who wanted to perform edgier acts for adults, Hoodslam quickly became a popular event in the Bay Area, attracting over 1,000 attendees at each monthly performance. Hoodslam performances combine the athleticism and tropes of professional wrestling with more bizarre, absurd characters, as well as profanity, sexuality, and public consumption of drugs and alcohol, which are not considered appropriate at mainstream professional wrestling events.\n\nHoodslam was founded by Sam Khandaghabadi, who had been wrestling at other venues under the name The Sheik but was fed up with needing to keep his act appropriate for children. He called together other wrestlers he had met on the West Coast and convinced them to come to the Victory Warehouse in Oakland, the place where he lived and where underground metal shows were regularly performed, promising them that profanity and sexuality would be allowed. 15 wrestlers participated in the first Hoodslam, for which Khandaghabadi did not charge admission.\n\nThe gathering continued to be held monthly until May 2011, when the landlord of the Victory Warehouse complained about the noise and partying surrounding the event. However, in June 2011, slam poet Jamie DeWolf invited Khandaghabadi and the other Hoodslam wrestlers to perform as part of his underground variety art show, Tourettes Without Regrets, at a larger warehouse venue in Oakland, the Oakland Metro Opera House. The popularity of their performance ensured them a regularly monthly spot at the Oakland Metro – on the same night as Oakland's First Friday art gathering – which continued to attract large crowds. In October 2014, for the first time, the 1,000-person venue sold out before the show began.\n\nStarting in early 2015, an offshoot of Hoodslam, called \"Beachslam\", began promoting shows in Santa Cruz, California and Knightsen, California featuring many of the same performers and characters as Hoodslam--as well as several new, regional or experimental characters.\n\nAccording to Khandaghabadi, Hoodslam, unlike traditional professional wrestling, is a form of performance art: because the wrestlers do not need to appeal to a young audience and do not have to pretend that their act is real, they can unleash their creativity in a more sophisticated way, simultaneously demonstrating their athleticism and poking fun at the absurdity of professional wrestling. Hoodslam wrestler A.J. Kirsch states that the tagline of the event, \"This Is Real,\" is a tongue-in-cheek reference to the obvious absurdity of the show, which features wrestlers dressed as popular video game characters Ken and Ryu, as well as an \"invisible\" wrestler, Charlie Chaplin, whom the real wrestlers pretend to battle. Unlike the characters and story lines, however, the physical prowess of the performers is real, and their moves are difficult and dangerous.\n\nAs the show unfolds, the performers chant, \"fuck the fans,\" which, according to O.J. Patterson, is a \"unifying war chant\" that functions as \"part reminder not to take things too seriously and part demand for hedonistic excess.\"\n\nMany former WWE and ECW wrestlers have made appearances at Hoodslam: since 2013, Brian Kendrick, Paul London, Drake Younger, Sinn Bodhi, Shelly Martinez, Gangrel, Sonny Onoo and Mustafa Saed have performed on the Hoodslam stage.\n"}
{"id": "37748108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37748108", "title": "It's the Bootleg, Muthafuckas!", "text": "It's the Bootleg, Muthafuckas!\n\nIt's the Bootleg, Muthafuckas! is a series of compilation albums released by Apathy.\n\nIt's the Bootleg, Muthafuckas! Volume 1 was released in 2003.\n\nHell's Lost and Found: It's the Bootleg, Muthafuckas! Volume 2 wa released on November 27, 2007. It had a 2 disc special both contained 19 tracks each. The track Drive it Like I Stole It was also featured on the . The track \"Bloc Party\" is also featured on the \"\" mixtape by Fort Minor, the side-project of Mike Shinoda from Linkin Park, released on October 30, 2005, and as a Limited Edition in 2006.\n\nIt's the Bootleg, Muthafuckas! Volume 3: Fire Walk with Me was released on September 11, 2012, It was released along with \"The Alien Tongue\".\n\nIt's the Bootleg, Muthafuckas! Volume 4: The Black Lodge was released on June 30, 2015 along with Apathy's new EP, \"Weekend at the Cape\".\n"}
{"id": "472396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472396", "title": "Jack-in-the-box", "text": "Jack-in-the-box\n\nA jack-in-the-box is a children's toy that outwardly consists of a box with a crank. When the crank is turned, a music box mechanism in the toy plays a melody. After the crank has been turned a sufficient amount of times (such as at the end of the melody), there is a \"surprise\": the lid pops open and a figure, usually a clown or jester, pops out of the box. Some jack-in-the-boxes open at random times when cranked, making the startle even more effective. Many of those that use \"Pop Goes the Weasel\" open at the point in the melody when the word \"pop\" would be sung. In 2005, the jack-in-the-box was inducted into the National Toy Hall of Fame due to its frequent charm that captivates children's interest. There you will find all types of versions of the toy, stating from the beginning versions, and ending with the most recently manufactured versions.\n\nA theory as to the origin of the jack-in-the-box is that it comes from the 14th-century English prelate Sir John Schorne, who is often pictured holding a boot with a devil in it. According to folklore, he once cast the devil into a boot to protect the village of North Marston in Buckinghamshire. In French, a jack-in-the-box is called a \"diable en boîte\" (literally \"devil in a box\").\n\nOriginally, the jack-in-the-box was a made out of wood however, as new technology began to come out the toy transformed into printed cardboard, then around the 30s, the jack-in-the-box became a wind up toy made from tin. Over the years, the jack-in-the-box has evolved into characters other than the clown, such as Winnie the Pooh, the Cat in the Hat, the Three Little Pigs, kittens, dogs, Curious George, Santa Clause, giraffes, and so on.\nStarting in 1935 and continuing for 20 years, the first company to take on the distribution of the toy, was a very small company named the Joy Toy. This company is located in Italy as well as the Netherlands. Since then, Fischer Price, Chad Valley, as well as Tomy, have all taken major parts in distributing the jack-in-the-box.\n"}
{"id": "4352799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4352799", "title": "KSS (company)", "text": "KSS (company)\n\nKSS Inc. is a Japanese company that provides anime studio services including production, music, subtitles and translation. From 1993 to 2001, it also developed and published video games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52175668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52175668", "title": "Kristin Chenoweth: My Love Letter to Broadway", "text": "Kristin Chenoweth: My Love Letter to Broadway\n\nKristin Chenoweth: My Love Letter to Broadway is a 2016 musical revue / concert, written for and starring American singer and actress Kristin Chenoweth. The show was directed by Richard Jay-Alexander, with musical direction by Mary Mitchell Campbell, and produced by James L. Nederlander. The show was a limited engagement of 12 performances at Broadway's Lunt-Fontanne Theatre from November 2 through 13, 2016.\n\nChenoweth describes the concert as, \"an intimate evening of romance, glamour and laughter.\" The production is a limited engagement from November 2 to November 13, 2016. It features a selection of songs performed by Chenoweth during her career, songs from her latest Great American Songbook-themed album \"The Art of Elegance\", favorite Broadway standards, and others. \"Chenoweth claims that no two shows in this 12-performance engagement will be alike\", with the show featuring guest appearances by different youth choirs and other special guests. The show is directed by Richard Jay-Alexander, who has directed some of Chenoweth's concerts and tours since 2012. Chenoweth's friend Mary Mitchell Campbell serves as musical director, and costumes are designed by Christian Siriano.\n\nChenoweth invites a different surprise guest and/or local choir mainly from the New York City area to perform some songs with her each performance.\n\nThe following is a sample of the songs that were performed; Chenoweth stated that \"no two shows will be alike.\"\nSources:\"The New York Times\"; \"Hollywood Reporter\"; TheatreMania\n\n\nCharles Isherwood of \"The New York Times\" reviewed the show, writing: \n\nChenoweth's appeal is in her perky wholesomeness and golly-gee enthusiasm ... which never feel manufactured. She has lost none of the girlish glow she possessed when she first rose to Broadway stardom. ... Nor does her singing ever feel mannered, although her bright lyric soprano is a superbly trained instrument. ... [H]er voice bloomed and soared almost effortlessly, in a wide range of repertoire, much but not all drawn from Broadway shows. ... [I]n a duet with a surprise guest, the opera star Renée Fleming, on \"Over the Rainbow\"... Fleming cast an amused eye at Ms. Chenoweth's ... magenta sequined leotard ... and admired her courage for wearing \"hot pants.\"... Chenoweth also brought a reflective quality to [several songs]. ... The band, though numbering just five, sounded plenty plush. ... Chenoweth's lively, natural humor was on ample display. ... Whether singing or delivering her often self-deprecating patter, Ms. Chenoweth always radiates a pleasure in performing that carries across the proverbial footlights ... she's like a singing ray of sunshine.\n\n"}
{"id": "14921430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14921430", "title": "List of amusement parks in Africa", "text": "List of amusement parks in Africa\n\nCasela World of Adventures.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19770459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19770459", "title": "List of film noir titles", "text": "List of film noir titles\n\nFilm noir is not a clearly defined genre (see here for details on the characteristics). Therefore, the composition of this list may be controversial. To minimize dispute the films included here should preferably feature a footnote linking to a which states that the mentioned film is considered to be a film noir by an expert in this field, e.g.\n\nThe terms which are used below to subsume various periods and variations of film noir are not definitive and are meant as a navigational aid rather than as critical argument. Because the 1940s and 1950s are universally regarded as the \"classic period\" of American film noir, films released prior to 1940 are listed under the caption \"Precursors / early noir-like films\". Films released after 1959 should generally only be listed in the list of neo-noir titles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6264567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6264567", "title": "Lucca Comics &amp; Games", "text": "Lucca Comics &amp; Games\n\nLucca Comics & Games is an annual comic book and gaming convention in Lucca, Tuscany, traditionally held at the end of October. It is the largest comics festival in Europe, and the second biggest in the world after the Comiket.\n\nThe Salone Internazionale del Comics (\"International Congress of Comics\") was launched by a Franco-Italian partnership, consisting of Italians Rinaldo Traini and Romano Calisi and Frenchman (forming the International Congress of Cartoonists and Animators) in 1965 in Bordighera.\nIn 1966 it moved to a small piazza in the center of Lucca, and grew in size and importance over the years.\n\nFunding issues reduced the frequency of the festival to every two years, beginning in 1977. In the 1980s, the festival was moved to a sports center outside the city walls, where it remained until 1992, when it was moved to another city. (Funding issues also forced the cancellation of the 1988 festival.)\n\nAfter the Salone internazionale del Comics ended in Lucca, city leaders launched a new convention called simply Lucca Comics that was a reprise of the old one. In 1996 it changed its name to Lucca Comics & Games. The festival attracted 50,000 attendees in 2002.\n\nMeanwhile, the Salone internazionale del Comics was held in Rome from 1995 to 2005. In 2006, for the festival's 40th anniversary, the Salone merged with Lucca Comics & Games and moved back to Lucca's city center, with numerous tents and pavilions arranged in different squares within and outside the walls of the medieval city.\n\nIn 2016, the festival attracted 270,000 attendees.\n\nFrom 1970–2005, the festival presented the — named in honor of Richard F. Outcault's seminal comic strip character The Yellow Kid — in such categories as Best Cartoonist, Best Illustrator, Best Newcomer, Best Foreign Artist, and Lifetime Achievement. Yellow Kid Awards were also presented to publishers, both domestic and foreign. \n\nThe festival also (since 1967) presents a special award called the (named after Lucca's Guinigi Tower).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23249652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23249652", "title": "Magmic", "text": "Magmic\n\nMagmic Inc. is an Ottawa-based developer and publisher of mobile entertainment and lifestyle software. Founded in 2002, Magmic produces content based on both original and licensed intellectual property for a variety of handset models, including Java ME, BREW, Sidekick, Windows Mobile, Apple iPhone, Android, and BlackBerry smartphone devices.\n\nMagmic has distribution deals with carriers worldwide, allowing subscribers to purchase and download Magmic games and other software directly through their handsets.\nIn addition, Magmic has launched several direct-to-consumer portals including Bplay (for the BlackBerry market) and Winplay (for the Windows Mobile market) which allow for a variety of payment and download options.\nMagmic also sells games for iPhone and iPod Touch through Apple iTunes and has several offerings on App World, the BlackBerry application store launched by Research In Motion in 2009.\n\nMagmic developed its own mobile connected gaming platform which allows users to post scores, download daily puzzles, and play head-to-head. Early Magmic titles such as Blackjack Highroller (released in 2002) allowed the player to submit their scores to a centralized server and view high score leaderboards in real time. This technology was expanded to include the downloading of content to the device with games such as Sudoku (2004) and Ka-Glom! (2005).\n\nTrue head-to-head mobile connected gaming was realized with the launch of Medieval Kings Chess II (2004) and Texas Hold'em King 2 (2004), which featured a mixture of live players and AI \"bots\" playing Texas Hold'em for play money at a virtual table. THK2 proved very popular and was eventually included as a pre-loaded game on several BlackBerry handsets. THK2 was improved in 2008 with the release of Texas Hold'em King 3, which improved gameplay and added more multiplayer features.\n\n"}
{"id": "37644538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37644538", "title": "Matchless (film)", "text": "Matchless (film)\n\nMatchless (also known as Mission Top Secret) is a 1967 Italian science fiction-comedy film directed by Alberto Lattuada. It parodies the spy film genre.\n\n\nIn a contemporary review, \"Variety\" stated that \"if audiences are not yet satiated with spy spoofs, United Artists' \"Matchless\" may get an appreciative reception from the action market.\" The review noted that \"the film doesn't take itself too seriously and makes some clever gibes at the expense of military and intelligence powers of all nationalities.\" and that \"uneven acting and technical credits hamper the film's chances of rising above programmer status.\"\n"}
{"id": "55013970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55013970", "title": "Media Diversity Institute", "text": "Media Diversity Institute\n\nThe Media Diversity Institute (MDI) is a London based non-governmental organisation working with the media to improve reporting on ethnicity, religion, gender, sexuality and other diversity issues.\n\nThe mission of MDI is to promote \"responsible journalism as a means to improve inter-community relations, increase tolerance and encourage dialogue among individuals and groups coming from different backgrounds.\"\n\nMDI has worked with organizations such as Internews, the International Federation of Journalists, Article 19, and the European Federation of Journalists. MDI is also a member of the Ethical Journalism Network.\n\nMDI was founded in 1997 by journalist Milica Pesic, who was working at the time for NYU Center for War, Peace and the News Media. MDI works on an international scale, but has a European focus.\n\nMDI works to engage, educate and train the actors in society who have influence over media coverage of diversity. This includes media decision makers (owners, editors, managers), journalists, academics, students, Civil Society Organisations and governmental organisations. They also organize conferences on these topics.\n\nMDI's first large scale media diversity project, The Reporting Diversity Network (RDN), was launched at a conference in November 1998 with keynote speakers Michael Ignatieff and Jean-Paul Marthoz. RDN's work focused on Central and Eastern Europe as well as the newly independent former Soviet states. They have also been involved in addressing the deaths of Romani journalists and editors.\n\nOther projects that MDI have been involved in include Dune Voices, Get the Trolls Out, and Media Against Hate.\n\nThe collaboration between MDI and Twitter in developing a guide on countering hate speech was referred to in an article in the \"Financial Times\", October 17, 2016.\n\nA video broadcast produced by MDI's Dune Voices project was published on the BBC website on December 30, 2016.\n\nMDI contributed to the Journal for Applied Journalism and Media Studies in 2017. MDI’s founder Milica Pesic presented concrete and detailed examples of how MDI has worked to promote inclusive journalism and diversity in the media in many different countries and regions.\n"}
{"id": "5491217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5491217", "title": "N3V Games", "text": "N3V Games\n\nN3V Games Pty Ltd. (formerly Auran Development and later n3vrf41l Publishing) is an Australian video game developer and publisher based in Helensvale, Queensland, Australia. Auran is now operated as a holding company, with operations and development ceded to N3V Games, a different closely held company.\n\nAuran was established by Greg Lane and Graham Edelsten in 1995, and released its first game, \"\", in 1997. \"Dark Reign\" sold over 685,000 units and was rated in the top ten real-time strategy games by the US magazine \"Game Developer\". The game received a 9.2 rating on GameSpot and was called \"one of the most impressive games released this year in any genre.\"\nBy the Mid-2000s, Tony Hilliam had established a video game company 'N3VrF41L Games' while occasionally participating on the Auran forums as a Trainz fan. When Auran overextended backing the wrong product in early 2007, Hilliam bought in, and initially brought out several republished or rebundled packaged releases as new product titles to boost cash flow (\"Trainz Routes\", \"Trainz Complete Collection\" and eventually the regionally focused \"Trainz Classics\" and Europe only releases.) Since 2007, the re-titled N3V Games has taken over primary day to day operation, development, and management of the Auran/N3V panoply of resources, websites, holdings, and software.\n\nSuccess of \"Dark Reign\" spurred interest in the game engine from other games developers, and Auran began in-house development of a generalized version of the graphics engine for licensing to third-party companies based on its self-developed middleware game engine called the Auran JET and in 1998 began development of a more specialized version for what became the game engine for the \"Trainz\" series of train simulator products—beta tested with \"Trainz\" 0.9 in 2000 amongst railfans, and with a major new release about every 2½ years.\n\nAuran grew steadily on the \"Trainz\" revenues and, in 2007, invested heavily and overextended its finances developing the \"Fury\" video game, a player versus player (PvP) based massively multiplayer online game which never recouped its costs. In the ensuing bankruptcy the company lost most of its development staff. Prior to that and the \"Trainz\" series of simulators, Auran had published a number of Auran Jet based games for the Australian market, including \"Freedom Force vs the 3rd Reich\", \"Shadowgrounds\" and \"Hearts of Iron II: Doomsday\".\n\nIn late 2005, after overseeing the stabilization (four service packs released in one year) of the \"Trainz 2004\" and \"Trainz 2006\" retail releases, one of the company's founders, Greg Lane, left, saying publicly it was time to move on. Lane was responsible for the development of \"Dark Reign\" and \"Trainz\" as well as the early Auran Jet Graphics Engine of \"Trainz\" V1.x, \"Trainz Virtual Railway\" and the \"Ultimate Trainz Collection\"; the upgraded Jet technology (JET 2) of \"Trainz 2004\" and \"Trainz 2006\" and evolutionarily, is still at the heart of all \"Trainz\" releases through TS2009. \nThis was overhauled as JET 3 in the \"TS2010\" version and again improved with the last 32 bit release, \"Trainz 2012\"—which under the highly strained JET 3 version crossed the line into better utilization of 64 bit Graphics Card computer architectures and like the preceding N3V Games developed Trainz 2010, better utilizes modern multi-core CPU microprocessor units—though still a 32 bit core application.\nN3V Games has the public position that TS2012 takes 32 bit architecture as far as it is possible, so in summer of 2013 began development of an entirely new 64 bit game engine called Trainz: A New Era (TANE or T:ANE) which originally slated for Christmas 2014 release, has an official release on May 15, 2015 after a lot of troubles during alpha and beta testing. TANE was kickstarter funded and the company released a partial version in December called T:ANE Community Edition (effectively a public partial Beta Test lacking many of the promised features and capabilities.)\n\nLane is now the chief technology officer for SituHome which makes use of Auran JET as the basis for its 3D home design program and other projects. Auran emerged from bankruptcy as Auran Holdings, LTD which still owns the rights of the Trainz franchise, now operated by N3V.\n\nThe remaining Auran management embarked on an expensive software development and virtually ignored the continued development of \"Trainz\" except for a series of joint ventures based on the extremely stable \"Trainz 2006\" software which had been released in late 2005. These joint ventures were mainly locally published and distributed regionally customized versions of \"TRS2006\" such as \"Trains Deluxe\" in which the local publishers/distributors bundled additional software such as trains videos, video capture software, or a much more limited trains simulator \"Virtual Model Railway\".\n\nIn 2007, the game \"Fury\" was the most expensive game yet produced in Australia, costing AU$8.3 million. However, the game did not sell well on its release.\nOn 13 December 2007, Auran Development, the company behind \"Fury\", went into voluntary administration, having focused and spent heavily on development of the new game which flopped, squandering the ongoing cash flow from their \"Trainz\" franchise, despite the staggered releases of \"Trainz Classics\", \"Trainz Classics 2\" and 3 – all versions focused on regionally specific routes partnered with organizations that had offered the route and asset content as payware, added a demo driver-only version \"Trainz Driver\" as well as releases specifically aimed to grow the international clientele (\"Trainz 2007\" and \"Trainz 2008\", French and Eastern European languages releases). The majority of staff was laid off.\n\nA new legal entity, Auran Games, emerged in the reorganization as the interim developer of the \"Trainz\" series, and continued to operate the Trainz business under the reorganization. During this period, the active Auran web board forums disappeared for over a month creating widespread user community anxieties, but was revitalized just short of five weeks later and the \"Trainz\" franchise continued under Auran Games with a development team of just three individuals working on the next major \"Trainz\" release with its many user-demanded improvements, \"Trainz 2009: World Builder\" edition.\n\nSoon after the rump company emerged from bankruptcy, Tony Hilliam, a \"Trainz\" devotee, offered additional capital, and the next year Auran Games became a subsidiary of N3V Games (previously known as N3VRF41L), co-founded by Graham Edelsten and Tony Hilliam in 2005, and Edelsten was the remaining founder at Auran while Tony Hilliam, a long time railfan had participated in the \"Trains\" 0.9 beta testing in 2000, and was an active and well-known figure on the Auran web board forums, and user of the \"Trainz\" simulators. Hilliam injected much needed operating cash, rehired the sole available programmer from the \"Trainz\" beta team, Chris Bergmann as lead programmer, hired additional staff and began once again to develop and improve the \"Trainz\" franchise with a new team of developers continuing work on what became \"Trainz 2009: World Builder Edition\".\n\nOn 24 October 2008, the new team including Hilliam began TrainzOnline, a wiki dedicated to \"Trainz\" technology; the new software featured a built-in web browser to assist \"Trainz\" users, in place of publishing separate PDF manuals for each release. This was in part an attempt to re-engage the formerly hyper-active \"Trainz\" user community assistance in tutorials for new users, but as of July 2013, the only user written tutorial content was on the advanced topics of content creation (3D modeling techniques). Tony Hilliam himself authored most of the scant new user tutorial pages.\n\nOn 6 October 2010, N3V and Pacific began operating a Brisbane-based server for the \"Runes of Magic\" MMORPG developed by Runewaker Entertainment. In 2011, \"Trainz 2010\"-SP3 was released incorporating a new interactive web play between multiple-users, a move to increased DRM spurred by software piracy, and with that service pack, the first version of \"Trainz\" where assets may not be convertible (back-fixed for) older versions. The release is the first fully exploiting modern graphics cards and multi-core microprocessor desktop computers, which has been further extended in the \"Trainz 2012\" release (April 2011).\n\nBy mid-2011, N3V had begun offering payware add-on assets for \"Trainz\" developed by its third-party partners, and released a number of smaller game style simple simulations. Late in 2012, it renamed its online store to Simulator Central and began marketing a whole catalog of simulation software titles, ranging from farming and zoo management simulations, taxi driving-to-become a fleet operator, and warfare simulations including naval battles. In 2012, the site began offering \"Trainz\" on smartphones and tablets, both under the iMac OS and Android technologies. By July 2013, their web store categories list nearly 200 titles, mostly for download, for Windows, Mac and boxed set DVD platforms (sic).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38218150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38218150", "title": "Netd.com", "text": "Netd.com\n\nnetd is a video on demand web site launched in Turkey on 11 January 2013. Netd is owned by Doğan Media Group and offers TV series mostly broadcast on Kanal D, a Doğan Holding channel. As of January 2013, popular TV series like \"Kuzey Güney\", \"Yalan Dünya\", \"Leyla ile Mecnun\", \"Seksenler\", and \"Öyle Bir Geçer Zaman Ki\" can be watched online, as well as old popular TV series like \"Aşk-ı Memnu\", \"Kavak Yelleri\" and \"Fatmagül'ün Suçu Ne?\". The web site also offers monthly free movies window, Kids Section, TV shows and 6 live broadcasts.\n\nOn 24 March 2014, NETD launched its music service with a motto of \"Türkçe Müzikte İlk Durak - First Stop For Turkish Music\".\n\nAll the content is free and ad-supported, there is no paid version. Videos are in up to 720p HD quality, live broadcasting and some content is in SD.\n\nThe web site launched about one month after Tvyo, a similar service by Doğuş Media Group. Previously, Apple iTunes Store opened for Turkey on 4 December 2012 only for music and films. TTNET also has a similar subscription-based service, Tivibu.\n\nnetd offers netd.com only shows such as:\n\nNETD has 9 live channels. Kanal D, CNN Turk, Dream TV, Dream Turk, TV2, Tay TV, DShopping, NetD Live. NETD also started broadcasting Disney Channel Turkey in mid of October 2013. \nNETD also broadcasts live programs during the day such as \"Sosyal Kafa\" (Social media review program), \"Ask Para Kariyer\" (Astrology and Angel Cards), and \"Kaybedenler Kulübü\" (Live Radio Program).\n"}
{"id": "24164419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24164419", "title": "Partial Terms of Endearment", "text": "Partial Terms of Endearment\n\n\"Partial Terms of Endearment\" is the 21st and final episode of the eighth season of the animated comedy series \"Family Guy\". Directed by Joseph Lee and written by Danny Smith, the episode originally aired on BBC Three in the United Kingdom on June 20, 2010, and has not been allowed to air in the United States on Fox, the original television network of the series, due to its controversial nature. This is the last episode that is presented in standard format, before the series' switch to high definition format, and it is the final episode to feature the opening sequence that was updated during the second season.\n\nIn the episode, Lois is approached by an old friend from college who asks her to become a surrogate mother. After arguing with her husband Peter who is against the idea, Lois agrees and undergoes in vitro fertilisation. However, while Lois is pregnant, the biological parents are killed in an automobile accident. Lois and Peter have to decide whether to abort the fetus, or carry it to term and give the baby up for adoption. Peter attempts to persuade his wife to get an abortion but changes his mind after pro-life activists convince him that abortion is murder. Despite Peter's objections, Lois goes ahead with the abortion.\n\nThe episode was banned from airing on the Fox Broadcasting Company due to concerns over its portrayal of the controversial subject of abortion. This is the second episode of \"Family Guy\" to be prevented from airing during the episode's respective regular season run; the first episode was the third season's \"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\". Unlike that episode, Cartoon Network's adult-oriented block Adult Swim refused to air it upon Fox's request. It was first announced at the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con International.\n\nCritical responses to the episode were mostly positive; critics praised the storyline, cultural references and its assessment of the subject of abortion. The episode was watched in just under a million homes in its original airing in the United Kingdom. Guest performances included Gary Beach, Jackson Douglas, Phil LaMarr, Will Sasso, Julia Sweeney, Wil Wheaton and Michael York, along with several recurring guest voice actors for the series. \"Partial Terms of Endearment\" was released on DVD in the United States, along with \"Seth and Alex Almost-Live Comedy Show\", on September 28, 2010. Even though this episode was placed at the end of season 8, the episode was placed between \"Go Stewie Go\" and \"Peter-assment\" in the UK.\n\nWhile attending her college reunion at Salve Regina University with Peter, Lois spots her old roommate, Naomi Robinson, with whom she had a brief lesbian relationship in college. Peter is shocked but excited to discover that Lois was bisexual in college. Naomi indicates that she would like to discuss an important matter with them at their home. Assuming that he will participate in a threesome with Lois and Naomi, Peter sends Chris, Meg, Stewie, and Brian out of the house. After Naomi arrives, she introduces her husband Dale. Peter expects that they will now be participating in an orgy, and tries to seduce the three of them while dressed in various costumes. When they clear the air to a dismayed Peter that they're not there for sex, Naomi and Dale tell Lois and Peter they've had trouble conceiving and ask Lois to be a surrogate mother for them, and Lois considers the matter.\n\nAs the family eats breakfast the next morning, Lois reveals her intention to become a surrogate mother for Naomi and Dale, causing Peter to become upset at the thought of her being pregnant for nine months. Despite this, Lois decides to go to Dr. Hartman to have the \"in vitro\" fertilization performed, enduring more of Dr. Hartman's shtick involving celebrity crossbreeds and having a tribe of bush men implant the egg with blowguns. A pregnancy test comes back positive the next day, and a furious Peter attempts to cause Lois to have a miscarriage before ultimately confronting her about the pregnancy. While she continues asserting her intention to provide a child to Naomi and Dale, Quahog 5 News suddenly reveals that Naomi and Dale died in a car crash on Interstate 95. Devastated by the announcement, Lois questions whether she should have an abortion or continue with the pregnancy and put the baby up for adoption.\n\nIn an attempt to come to a decision, Lois and Peter decide to visit the local family-planning center, and ultimately decide to abort the embryo. However, as Peter exits the center he encounters an anti-abortion rally, where he is shown an anti-abortion video by one of the protesters. The video causes him to reconsider about aborting the unborn baby. Returning home, Lois continues to advocate her right to choose, while Peter now attempts to argue the unborn child's right to life and whether Lois has the responsibility of carrying it to term. At their wits' end, the two decide to discuss the matter, once and for all. At dinner, Lois talks with the family about \"the wonderful new member of the Griffin family\", but then, after a few seconds of silence, Peter turns to the camera and says to the audience \"We had the abortion\", promptly ending the episode.\n\nThe episode was first announced at the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con International on July 25, 2009, by series creator and executive producer Seth MacFarlane. It was written by fellow executive producer and series regular Danny Smith and directed by Joseph Lee, during the show's eighth production season. The storyline was pitched by series regular Tom Devanney, and periodically references \"Billions and Billions\" (1997), a book of essays by Carl Sagan. Seth MacFarlane asked Danny Smith to read Sagan's essay, \"Abortion: Is It Possible to Be Both 'Pro-Life' and 'Pro-Choice'\", before beginning to write the script. The episode was originally intended to air along with the rest of the eighth season schedule, and was approved for production by 20th Century Fox. However, the Fox Broadcasting Company asserted their right not to air the episode due to the subject matter. This was the second time that MacFarlane had been warned by Fox about the sensitive nature of an episode's subject. Previously, the network had also disapproved of the season 3 episode \"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\", which was originally prevented from airing on Fox, but finally aired on Adult Swim, and eventually on Fox more than four years after it was rejected. Thinking the same would happen with \"Partial Terms of Endearment\", MacFarlane believed that Fox would eventually run the episode on their network, stating, \"Most of the time these things turn out to be nothing.\" In a statement released by Fox, they noted their full support of \"the producers' right to make the episode and distribute it in whatever way they want.\"\nAt the 2009 San Diego Comic-Con International, MacFarlane announced that the episode would become available on a special DVD release, with series producer Kara Vallow confirming the release would be available on September 28, 2010, along with \"Seth and Alex's Almost Live Comedy Show\". A month after the announcement, Kevin Reilly, President of Fox Entertainment, stated that the final decision not to air the episode was largely due to concerns about finances and advertisers: \"Of all the issues, is the one that seems to be the most of a hot button. Particularly at that moment in time, the economy was really struggling and there were a lot of very tough conversations going on with clients.\" Reilly said that \"the advertisers know what they’re getting\" with \"Family Guy\", and he thought that the episode handled the subject fine, but \"this one felt like it could cause trouble, and it was just not worth it.\" Despite the concerns in the U.S. about the episode, it aired on June 20, 2010, on BBC Three in the UK, as a part of the season's regularly scheduled Sunday night run on the station. Although it was originally speculated that Adult Swim might air the episode, Fox stated that there were no plans to air it on their network. Several months before the episode debuted on television, the script was performed in a live table read at the Ricardo Montalbán Theatre in Hollywood, California on August 12, 2009. The special reading was attended by Academy of Television Arts and Sciences voters on the heels of the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards. \"Family Guy\" was nominated for Outstanding Comedy Series, becoming the first animated program to be nominated in the category since \"The Flintstones\" in 1961. Commenting about the event, MacFarlane said, \"We did this to drum up Emmy votes, so we could lose by fewer votes.\"\n\nIn addition to the regular cast, actor Jackson Douglas, husband of Alex Borstein, appeared in the episode as Dale Robinson, actress Julia Sweeney appeared as Naomi Robinson, actress Rutina Wesley appeared as Cheryl, actor Wil Wheaton cameoed as an anti-abortion protester and actor Michael York voiced the nature narrator. Actor Gary Beach, voice actor Phil LaMarr, and comedian/actor Will Sasso guest starred as various characters. Recurring guest voice actress Alexandra Breckenridge, actor Ralph Garman, and writers Danny Smith, Alec Sulkin and John Viener made minor appearances throughout the episode. Recurring guest cast member Patrick Warburton guest appeared in the episode as well. This episode marked Sweeney's first guest appearance since the season two episode \"Wasted Talent\".\n\n\"Partial Terms of Endearment\", along with \"Seth and Alex Almost-Live Comedy Show\", was released on DVD in the United States on September 28, 2010. The set includes a brief audio commentary by Seth MacFarlane, voice actress Alex Borstein, writer Danny Smith and director Joseph Lee, as well as animatics, a table read of the episode, and nine downloadable original \"Family Guy\" songs. It was also released for digital retail in the United States the same day without the bonus features included on the DVD.\n\nClips from the episode were shown during the special \"Family Guy: 200 Episodes Later\", in which MacFarlane describes it as being the closest the writers have come to doing a modern-day \"All in the Family\" episode. Additionally, Smith calls it a relatively balanced and intelligent discussion of a very difficult subject and Sulkin claims that it, like \"When You Wish Upon a Weinstein\", is not controversial at all.\n\nIn the opening scene of the episode, Peter and Lois are shown entering her alma mater at Salve Regina University in Newport, Rhode Island. Later, after they are approached by Lois's ex-roommate Naomi and her husband Dale, Lois announces her intention to carry the couple's baby, causing Peter to question why Lois is the one who has to become the couple's surrogate. Their daughter, Meg, suggests that she could carry the baby herself, but Lois objects due to Meg's inability to have a boyfriend \"for more than a few weeks.\" Meg notes her relationship with \"Sesame Street\" character Count von Count, who only left her after discovering she had at least three nipples.\n\nBefore Lois prepares to undergo \"in vitro\" fertilization, Dr. Hartman shows her several photos of babies conceived by celebrity couples, including actress Shelley Duvall and singer-songwriter James Blunt; actress Hilary Swank and actor Gary Busey; Olympic medalist Florence Griffith-Joyner and physicist Stephen Hawking; and actress, writer and comedian Tina Fey and actor Joaquin Phoenix. Beginning the procedure, Lois objects to Dr. Hartman's method of embryonic insertion. In response, he replies, \"Well, perhaps you could tell them—if only you spoke Hovitos,\" a reference to \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\". Later, in an attempt to cause Lois to have a miscarriage, Peter lays down a series of \"Grey's Anatomy\" DVDs in order to lure Lois into being punched in the stomach by the \"Acme Miscarriage Kit\", a boxing glove attached to a crossbow. In a reference to the \"Looney Tunes\" and \"Merrie Melodies\" cartoon series Wile E. Coyote and Road Runner, Peter ultimately ends up missing with the crossbow, causing the glove to bounce and hit a large rock and land inches in front of him as he is standing on a narrow cliff. The ground then drops out from underneath his feet, causing him to fall like Wile E. Coyote.\n\nAs Peter exits the abortion clinic, he notices a pro-life rally nearby. At the rally, a protester shows Peter a video tape discouraging abortion (as a reference to the cult classic 1936 American propaganda exploitation film \"Reefer Madness\"), portraying it as murder, larceny, jaywalking and securities fraud. The tape claims that abortion prevented Nazi leader Adolf Hitler's would-be assassin, a fourth Stooge brother, of \"The Three Stooges\", and Islamic extremist Osama bin Laden's America-loving brother from being born.\n\nThe episode was viewed in just under a million homes in its original airing on BBC Three in the United Kingdom, earning an audience share of 5.7 percent, despite airing simultaneously with \"Desperate Housewives\" on E4. The reception of the episode represented a slight decrease from the previous week's ratings. In a review of the episode's original broadcast, \"The Mail on Sunday\" rated the double bill of \"Partial Terms of Endearment\" and \"Go Stewie Go\" as four out of five stars.\n\nReviews of the episode's release on DVD were mostly positive, calling the episode \"wickedly funny, no matter how offensive.\" Frazier Moore of the Associated Press commented that \"What, in other hands, could have been a serious, even heart-wrenching story is on \"Family Guy\" a devilish burlesque — not to mention a wickedly astute examination of the current abortion clash.\" Moore also noted, however, that \"the uninitiated, the faint-of-heart and, most of all, the anti-abortion crowd should maybe choose to take a pass.\" Dave Itzkoff of \"The New York Times\" deemed the episode \"typical of that audacious Fox animated comedy, teeming with rapid-fire jokes and willfully offensive non sequiturs about disabled animals, God, Nazis, bodily functions and the sexual habits of 'Sesame Street' characters.\" In a slightly more mixed review of the DVD release, Cindy White of IGN criticized the episode for its shock value, but appreciated \"that the writers didn't cop out in the end, and actually picked a side.\" White went on to comment that it was \"hard to believe that the writers ever expected 'Partial Terms of Endearment' to make it to air\" and that \"even devoted, longtime fans of the show may be a little uncomfortable with the subject matter.\" White gave the release a 7 out of 10 rating. Assessing \"Family Guy\"s impact on television, Mary Elizabeth Williams of Salon commented on the portrayal of abortion: \"That \"Family Guy\", that doofy, generally unfunny bastion of sophomoric jokes, should be one of the few shows brave enough to even address the topic is bananas And that Fox wouldn't air the episode says we're still a long way from having anybody on 'Glee' or 'The Office' or 'House' look at those telltale lines on the stick and finally decide what millions of American women have — that they're just not ready for motherhood.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "870583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870583", "title": "Perfect Dark Zero", "text": "Perfect Dark Zero\n\nPerfect Dark Zero is a first-person shooter video game developed by Rare and published by Microsoft Game Studios. It was exclusively released as a launch title for the Xbox 360 video game console in 2005. The game is part of the \"Perfect Dark\" series and a prequel to the original \"Perfect Dark\". The story of the game follows Joanna Dark, a bounty hunter working with her father and a computer hacker, as she joins the Carrington Institute agency to prevent a rival corporation from getting possession of an ancient artefact which endows individuals with superhuman powers.\n\n\"Perfect Dark Zero\" features a campaign mode consisting of 14 missions that can be played co-operatively and a multiplayer mode where a maximum of 32 players can compete against each other in numerous types of deathmatch and objective-based games. Both the co-operative and multiplayer modes support split-screen, system link, and the Xbox Live online service. The game was under development for five years and was originally intended to be released for the Nintendo GameCube and later the Xbox. During development, several intended features were canceled so that the game could meet the Xbox 360 launch.\n\nUpon release, \"Perfect Dark Zero\" sold more than one million copies worldwide and received generally positive reviews from critics, garnering a score of 81 out of 100 at review aggregate website Metacritic. The game's numerous multiplayer modes singled out as strong features. However, some critics felt that the game did not meet the expectations, criticising single-player aspects such as its story and voice acting. In 2015, the game was included in the \"Rare Replay\" video game compilation for Xbox One.\n\n\"Perfect Dark Zero\" is a first-person shooter where players control the player character mostly from a first-person perspective. The combat features mechanics such as an evasive dodge roll and a cover system in which the gameplay switches to a third-person perspective, allowing the player to strategically aim without taking damage and be more aware of the surroundings. Players cannot jump but have the ability to automatically climb obstacles as long as they can reasonably reach them. It is also possible to climb ladders. By doing so, the camera shifts into a third-person perspective. The player has a certain amount of health which decreases when attacked by enemies. The health can recharge a bit if the player steps out of the line of fire for a few seconds, but it may not necessarily refill completely depending on how much damage the player took.\n\nPlayers can only carry a limited number of weapons since the inventory features a 4-slot system in which single hand held pistols usually take a weapon slot whereas heavy weapons like sniper rifles or rocket launchers can take up to three weapon slots. The player's movement speed is also altered by the weight of the weapon the player is currently holding. Besides the primary function, all of the weapons in \"Perfect Dark Zero\" have one or two additional function modes that generally grant the player with special abilities. For example, the Shockwave Rifle features an X-ray function which allows the player to see enemies through walls, while the Plasma Rifle has a cloak function that renders the player character invisible to enemies at cost of its batteries. Some weapons also feature more unorthodox secondary functions. For instance, the Laptop Gun can be deployed as a sentry gun, while the SuperDragon assault rifle can launch bouncing grenades.\n\nThe campaign is divided into 14 missions in which the player plays as Joanna Dark. Each mission provides a number of objectives that the player has to complete to progress. To successfully clear a mission, the player must complete all primary objectives, and if Joanna is killed or fails an objective, the player will have to start the level again. The missions also feature optional objectives that are not critical but add to the player's overall completion score. Some objectives require the player to use numerous high-tech gadgets. For example, a device called Datathief allows the player to hack into electronic devices, while another called Loctopus can be used to open locked doors. Stealth is another important element of the gameplay, as the player is often given the freedom to kill enemies without being detected by sneaking up behind them. Unlike the original \"Perfect Dark\", every mission contains a single checkpoint at which the player may restart if Joanna is killed or loses beyond that checkpoint. However, checkpoints are removed as the player plays through a higher difficulty. There are four difficulty settings through which a mission can be played: Agent, Secret Agent, Perfect Agent, and an extra one called Dark Agent, which becomes available once the player completes the entire game on Perfect Agent. As the player plays on higher difficulties, the game adds more objectives and makes enemies tougher to increase the challenge.\n\nThe game also provides a co-operative mode where two players may play through the game's campaign together via split-screen, system link, or through the Xbox Live online service. In co-operative, the missions are slightly altered to suit both players. For instance, some doors may require two players to open them. Additionally, in certain missions, the second player can occasionally start far away from the main player and takes over an allied character that was AI-controlled in the single player campaign. The respawn procedure is also altered substantially, as if one player dies, the other has to find and revive the partner's corpse to bring it back to life.\n\nIn addition to the campaign mode, \"Perfect Dark Zero\" features a multiplayer where a maximum of 32 players may compete in numerous types of deathmatch and objective-based games via split-screen, system link, or Xbox Live. The multiplayer offers two main modes with their own customisable options: DeathMatch and DarkOps. DeathMatch is a standard gametype where players spawn in rooms, collect weapons that are available on the map itself, and continue to the actual map. The overall objective of the game is determined by the scenario being played. Scenarios range from Killcount or Team Killcount, where the goal is to kill as many opposing players as possible, to objective-based games such as Capture the Flag and Territorial Gains. DarkOps, on the other hand, is a slower-paced and team-only gametype where weapons must be purchased from a player's stock of credits and credits are earned by killing enemies and completing objectives. Scenarios in this mode include Eradication, where the last team with any members left alive wins; Infection, where players score points by either infecting others or surviving infection; Sabotage, where the team that causes the most damage to the other team's property wins; and Onslaught, where one team must defend a base while the other has to attack it.\n\nPlayers can either choose to play a ranked Deathmatch or DarkOps, where they will be matched with other players using a system called TrueSkill Matchmaking, or they may choose a player match where they can choose their game from a list of player hosted games. Like the original \"Perfect Dark\", these games can be highly customized and can also include computer game bots. Features such as their difficulty and behavior can be changed to match player preference. For example, the Judge bot always attacks leading players with the highest kills score. Players can also issue commands to them as long as they are on their respective team, such as follow or hold position, and set waypoints for them to walk to. The game includes by default six different maps and each has two variants; the only change is the placement of the bases. Most of the maps are large ones, ideal for 32 players at once, with small variants for 4-16 player games.\n\n\"Perfect Dark Zero\" is set in 2020, where a large percentage of the world is controlled by corporations. The most notable of these corporations are dataDyne, headed by Zhang Li, and the Carrington Institute, headed by Daniel Carrington. The player is cast as Joanna Dark, a bounty hunter working with her father Jack Dark and computer hacker Chandra Sekhar. The team is after Nathan Zeigler, an independent researcher who has been captured by a Hong Kong triad gang led by a man named Killian. Joanna and her father successfully rescue Zeigler, but Killian manages to escape. Zeigler explains that Killian was trying to obtain his research, which contains information about a dangerous weapon. As Zeigler refuses to go anywhere without his research, Joanna is sent to retrieve it while her father stays with Zeigler. After Joanna retrieved a case with Zeigler's research from a nearby safe house, Zeigler takes a device called a neurodrive from the case and uses it to implant his research data into Jack's mind. Afterwards, Zeigler succumbs to his injuries sustained by Killian and dies. Before dying, Zeigler says that they must find a scientist named Dr. Eustace Caroll.\n\nWhile escaping, Jack and Joanna are attacked by a dataDyne assault team assisted by Killian in a dropship. Joanna manages to kill Killian and escape with Sekhar, but Jack is captured by dataDyne. With the help of Sekhar, Joanna learns that her father has been taken to a mansion in China, where Zhang Li lives. Joanna infiltrates the mansion and finds her father in a cell. He has been tortured, and begins speaking gibberish to her, an after effect of the neurodrive. The pair fights their way out of the complex, but their extraction is interrupted by Zhang Li's daughter, Mai Hem, who kills Jack before Joanna escapes in a hovercraft. Joanna and Sekhar decide to pursue Zeigler's lead and seek out Dr. Caroll, who works aboard a research platform on the Pacific Ocean. Upon meeting with Joanna, Dr. Caroll uses a neurodrive to extract Zeigler's data from Joanna's memory, which she gained when she rescued her father. Soon after, Sekhar betrays Joanna and shoots Dr. Caroll, revealing that she decided to join dataDyne because Zhang Li had made her a large offer. A team of Carrington Institute agents saves Joanna, but Sekhar ultimately escapes with the data.\n\nAfter escaping the research station, Joanna agrees to work with the Carrington Institute to stop dataDyne. Daniel Carrington contacts her and explains that Zeigler had been working on an algorithm capable of decoding extraterrestrial glyphs at a dig site in South America. Traveling to Peru, Joanna learns that the glyphs are leading dataDyne to search for an ancient artefact which acts as a power-source for the Graal, a device which endows individuals with superhuman powers. Joanna plants a tracking device onto the artefact before sneaking aboard a dataDyne dropship. The dropship takes her to Africa, where Zhang Li has located the Graal buried under the African sands. The Carrington Institute plans an offensive on dataDyne forces with the battle taking place on a large bridge. Joanna rescues several Carrington Institute agents before avenging her father's death by killing Mei Hem. Joanna infiltrates an arena and faces off against Zhang Li, who dispatches Sekhar after using the Graal. Despite the advantage, Joanna defeats Zhang Li in a final battle. Daniel Carrington commends her efforts, informing her that she did “Perfect”.\n\nDevelopment of \"Perfect Dark Zero\" began on the Nintendo GameCube with a very small team of roughly ten people. At the time, Nintendo had a 49% stake in Rare, making the company a Nintendo second-party developer. According to lead designer Chris Tilston, \"It was basically prototyping, finding out where we could go and how we could get there.\" When Rare was purchased by Microsoft in 2002, the project was transferred to the Xbox console and the game's multiplayer mode was redesigned for Xbox Live online play. Tilston revealed that at one point they got to 50 players online simultaneously, but the graphics \"just couldn't handle it.\" Since the initial version of the game pushed the original Xbox hardware \"pretty hard\", the project was ultimately transferred to the Xbox successor, the Xbox 360. Tilston revealed that the original Xbox version was \"about 12 months away\" from completion when the shift occurred.\n\nInitially, the game had a heavy anime style and Joanna Dark received many alterations throughout the development process. Lead Art Director Wil Overton explained that they \"wanted to bring her back in line with the way Rare do things. [...] We sorta wanted to stylize her up a bit and make her more iconic.\" However, the designers ultimately decided to tone down the styling of the game a bit. The Xbox 360 gave the developers more possibilities to include what they always wanted and allowed them to create the game's co-operative mode, which was one of the first that could be played via Xbox Live. Designing the co-operative mode over Xbox Live was very challenging for the developers. According to Duncan Botwood, who was responsible for most of the multiplayer, \"It was quite an effort to put it in, to be honest. You have to cater for a number of eventualities you just don't get normally. We think we pulled it off, and because we pulled it off, other people might feel inspired to put the effort in, and we think that's a good thing.\"\n\n\"Perfect Dark Zero\" is also one of the first games that uses the Havok's HydraCore physics engine, which was specifically designed for multi-core video game systems like the Xbox 360. The game's renderer engine employs more advanced graphic technologies than was possible in the previous console generation, including parallax mapping, ambient occlusion, subsurface scattering, and high dynamic range. The soundtrack of the game was primarily composed by David Clynick, who worked with Grant Kirkhope on the original Nintendo 64 game's score. New York based group MorissonPoe contributed two songs to the score, while DJs Kepi and Kat composed the game's nightclub theme.\n\nThe cover mode was designed to enhance the stealth aspect of the game and the third-person perspective was needed to allow players to see the character they were playing. The idea of bringing the game into a total third-person perspective was rejected as the shooting \"works better\" in first-person view, explained Tilston. Developers decided not to include a jumping function since they felt it goes against the nature of the genre. Botwood pointed out that it can \"look damn stupid when you see other players doing it\". For this reason, the team implemmented moves such as climbing obstacles or, more specifically, the combat roll, which makes players harder to hit since it breaks the game's auto-aim lock. The transition between first and third-person view with some moves took a lot of work so that they did not become disorientating. A first-person roll was implemented at one time, but it was ultimately dropped.\n\nBecause \"Perfect Dark Zero\" was intended to be an Xbox 360 launch title, the last stage of development was very challenging and several features had to be canceled so that the game could meet the launch deadline. The number of players in multiplayer matches had to be reduced from 50 to 32, and a \"dataDyne TV\" mode that would have allowed players to upload and watch multiplayer matches over Xbox Live was eventually rejected. Final development for the Xbox 360 was very rushed. The order was given to produce the discs five days before the Microsoft certification was complete. Rare later stated they felt very confident they would pass, but it was a significant risk producing 700,000 disks if a bug turned up. According to Botwood, \"very few people believed we could make launch, but everything came together in time and it was out there for day one.\"\n\nThe actual development of the game took overall five years to complete and spanned three platforms: the Nintendo GameCube, the Microsoft Xbox and the Xbox 360. Tilston remarked that, throughout the course of development, the team noticed how the video game industry had evolved as computing and graphics power increased, and how earlier games like \"GoldenEye 007\" and \"Donkey Kong Country\" where their development costs were minimal could easily be profitable with a few programmers. Tilston also revealed that the team behind \"Perfect Dark Zero\" was composed of roughly 25 people for most of the project, which was \"ridiculously\" small compared to Xbox 360 generation standards where there are 100 or 200 people working on a team. Despite this, \"Perfect Dark Zero\", from a development cost, made four times its money back.\n\n\"Perfect Dark Zero\" made its first appearance at Spaceworld 2000, an annual video game trade show hosted by Nintendo in Tokyo. The demo briefly showed a 3D real-time render of Joanna Dark. Some reports further suggested the development of the game with Rare applying to trademark the names \"After Dark\", \"Perfect Dark Evolution\" and the phrase \"Shot in the Dark\". The next year, at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in June 2001, Nintendo advertised the title \"Perfect Dark Zero\" on a list of upcoming GameCube releases, but it was quickly removed. In January 2002, it was allegedly announced that its release was pushed back to 2004 due to internal team problems at Rare. When Rare was purchased by Microsoft in September 2002, several cartoony images of Joanna Dark were released, but few other official announcements were made in the following years.\n\nIn May 2005, one of the rewards in the OurColony viral marketing campaign for Microsoft's Xbox 360 console was a new image of Joanna Dark. At the official unveiling of the Xbox 360, it was revealed that \"Perfect Dark Zero\" would be a launch title for the new system in the fall of 2005. A demo was shown during the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2005 shortly afterwards. Prior to its release, Microsoft arranged a deal with Tor Books to produce a novel series set in the \"Perfect Dark\" universe. The first novel, entitled \"\" and written by Greg Rucka, was released on October 4, 2005. A six-issue comic book series written by Eric Trautmann and illustrated by Cold FuZion Studios was also announced. Around the same time, Joanna Dark made an appearance on the cover of \"FHM\" magazine. An official soundtrack album featuring a selection of music from the game was produced by Nile Rodgers and released on November 8, 2005 through Sumthing Else Music Works.\n\nThe first release of the game came on November 22, 2005 in North America. The game was playable at the Xbox 360 Zero Hour Launch event, along with other Xbox 360 launch titles such as Rare's \"\" and Activision's \"Call of Duty 2\". Other releases followed on December 2 in Europe and on December 10 in Japan. In Europe, Microsoft organized a party by simulating an apartment as Joanna Dark's home, where several journalists could try out the Xbox 360 and the game. During the Japanese launch weekend, \"Perfect Dark Zero\" became the second best-selling 360 game with roughly 15,000 units sold, behind Namco's \"Ridge Racer 6\".\n\n\"Perfect Dark Zero\" was released in both a standard edition and a limited collector's edition. The collector's edition features a disc with behind-the-scenes content, a black metal game case, a special-edition comic booklet which sets the scene for the game, and one of nine holographic collectible cards. As of October 2006, the game had sold more than one million units worldwide. As a result, it was one of the first games to be re-released under the \"Platinum Hits\" list. In 2015, \"Perfect Dark Zero\" was released as a backward compatible game on the Xbox One. The game was also included in the \"Rare Replay\" video game compilation.\n\nShortly after the game's release, new multiplayer scenarios and a counter-operative mode like the one found in the original \"Perfect Dark\" were said to eventually become freely available as downloadable content. Senior game designer Duncan Botwood later clarified that it was unlikely to happen due to technical issues. According to him, \"It would have required much groundwork to be laid in the core AI code, which meant that it was unlikely to be available as downloadable content post-release.\" He also remarked that the counter-operative mode was planned during the development of the game, but was eventually rejected due to the pressure to cut planned content.\n\nIn May 2006, an auto-update was made available on Xbox Live, responsible for fixing some bugs and adding additional multiplayer options to the game. The bug fixes included code to prevent an ongoing problem where players could walk through the air, an issue where some weapons could make use of rapid fire, and a map-exiting glitch, among others. The new multiplayer options provide seven additional new bot types and the ability to use bots in DarkOps matches, since bots had only one AI variant and were only available in DeathMatch scenarios when the game was released. Additionally, a playable demo of the game was made freely available on the Xbox Live Marketplace shortly afterwards. The demo includes one campaign mission that can be played in solo mode or co-operatively, and a new multiplayer map.\n\nRare released a multiplayer map pack, called \"Perfect Dark Zero Map Pack One\", to the Xbox Live Marketplace on June 7, 2006. It contains the demo's new multiplayer map as well as three other new maps to add to the game's original six. Unlike the game's default maps, the new maps only have one variant instead of two. On October 31, 2006, Rare announced that a special platinum edition of \"Perfect Dark Zero\" would be released, and would include the first map pack and two additional maps. The two new maps were later released for free in a pack called \"Perfect Dark Zero Map Pack Two\". These maps are updated versions of two maps from the original \"Perfect Dark\": Felicity and Ruins. The pack was released on November 1, 2006 for Gold Members and on November 8, 2006 for Silver Members.\n\nCritical reception for \"Perfect Dark Zero\" was divided but generally positive, garnering a Metacritic aggregated review score of 81 out of 100 respectively. Writing for GameSpot, Greg Kasavin felt that \"Perfect Dark Zero\" \"champions the Xbox 360 with its excellent assortment of single and multiplayer game types, as well as its incredible good looks and dynamic, intense action.\" He concluded that the game \"delivers just about everything you could hope for from a first-person shooter.\" Charles Onyett of IGN praised the game's replay value, but also criticised single-player aspects such as the weak artificial intelligence of enemies, commenting that \"they never display any advanced assault tactics.\"\n\nThe graphics were highlighted positively. Kasavin was impressed with the amount of lighting and motion blur effects, and noted that the \"excellent character animation helps make the guns feel as powerful as they look.\" Bryn Williams of GameSpy considered the graphics as a \"stunning look at what the 360 hardware is capable of\", but also admitted that the animation \"is a little too slow and sometimes creates an unwelcome sense of cartoonishness\". IGN credited the attractive gun models, explosions, and sprawling vistas, but felt that some areas such as the South American Ruins can unnecessarily look too shiny. The game's audio was said to feature \"heavy-hitting weapon effects [and] fantastic, moody soundtrack that gives each mission its own pulsing rhythms\".\n\nThe game's weapons were very well received. \"Edge\" praised their weight, stating that each weapon encourages strategic play with their secondary functions. Critics generally agreed that the roll and cover system worked well and that they did not feel overpowered, but some criticised the fact that players need to be in a specific spot to use the cover mode. Reviewers considered the story and voice acting to be weak. IGN said that it is almost impossible not to notice how \"laughably bad it is\", and that many plot twists are presented then never resolved, but also admitted that it does not really factor into the gameplay. GameCritics reviewer Mike Bracken commented, \"It's always sad when there's voice acting in a game and I find myself being embarrassed for the voice actors.\" Nevertheless, GameSpot added that the game's weapon fire and musical score \"easily drown this out.\"\n\nPublications judged the co-op aspect of the game well. Kristan Reed of Eurogamer praised the fact that the missions were \"designed with co-op in mind.\" He noted that, for example, the third level \"has Joanna providing cover fire for her father Jack as he hops from one point of the level to the next. In the single player campaign Jack's AI controlled, but co-op lets you take direct control of his actions, making the experience a much more engaging affair all-round.\" Multiplayer matches of \"Perfect Dark Zero\" were widely well received. GameSpot stated that \"the excellent weapon selection, flexibility of options, high-quality maps, and smooth online performance ... make for a rock-solid competitive shooter.\" IGN stated similar pros, calling it \"enormous\". 1UP.com reviewer Che Chou also praised the multiplayer, but observed that \"constantly roll-dodging to avoid enemy fire at close range [...] combined with the exceptionally slow movement speed of your character [...] can occasionally be highly frustrating for beginners.\"\n\nDespite solid reviews, numerous publications remarked that \"Perfect Dark Zero\" did not meet the expectations. According to GameCritics, \"It took Rare a whole console generation to do it ... and the wait wasn't really worth it\". \"Game Informer\" found the game underwhelming, reviewing it under the tagline \"Don't believe the hype\". In a positive review, GameSpy observed that \"\"Perfect Dark Zero\" is a lot of fun and does a lot of things very well, but it's just not the killer-app that we'd all hoped for\". \"Edge\" said that the game \"falls short\", especially when compared to \"\", a successful first-person shooter that was released as a launch title for the original Xbox. In 2010, GameTrailers placed the game 6th in their list of the \"Top 10 Disappointments of the Decade\" and 10th in their \"Top 10 Worst Sequels\" list.\n\n"}
{"id": "45616421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45616421", "title": "Robert Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Television Role", "text": "Robert Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Television Role\n\nThe Robert Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Television Role () is one of the merit awards presented by the Danish Film Academy at the annual Robert Awards ceremony. The award has been handed out since 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "30963245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30963245", "title": "Scéno Plus", "text": "Scéno Plus\n\nScéno Plus Inc. is a Montreal-based entertainment design firm founded in 1985. It specializes in the design of cultural and recreational venues such as multidisciplinary spaces, small creative studios, circus theatres, concert halls, large-capacity theatres, cinemas, convention centres, event centres and multipurpose halls.\n\nPatrick Bergé, Scéno Plus’ cofounder and president, grew up in a theatre environment. At age of 13, he started working in a theatre and toured with artists until he was 19 years old. He decided to focus on theatre projects when he later went to architectural school. Patrick Bergé founded Scéno Plus Inc. in February 1985 and concentrated his efforts in designing aesthetic and functional theatres to enhance performer, technician and venue manager work conditions.\n\nScéno Plus past realizations include among others venues like the two first permanent Cirque du Soleil theatre in Las Vegas: the Treasure Island Showroom in Las Vegas (hosting the show “Mystère”) and the Bellagio Theatre (hosting the show “O”) as well as the Cirque du Soleil Theatre at Walt Disney World’s West Side District in Orlando. The firm also designed The Colosseum at Caesars Palace for the Celine Dion mega production A New Day and created the Wynn Casino Showroom that hosted the show Le Rêve directed by Franco Dragone.\n\nThe firm also designed the rock concert facility The Joint at Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas and the transformable showroom called The Venue at the Horseshoe Casino located in Hammond.\n\nRecently, Pollstar magazine selected the rock concert venue The Joint in Las Vegas as the Best New Major Concert Venue in 2009. In 2003, the Civic trust Commendation granted the Dream Factory at the Playbox Theatre in Warwick, United Kingdom for its high design standards. Scéno Plus also received in 2002 the Outstanding Private Building Award for The Colosseum at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas by the Southwest Contractor Magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "6821463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6821463", "title": "Shayera Hol", "text": "Shayera Hol\n\nShayera Hol is the name of a fictional superheroine appearing in American comic books during the Silver Age of Comics published by DC Comics. Shayera Hol was created by writer Gardner Fox and artist Joe Kubert, and first appeared in \"The Brave and the Bold\" #34 (March 1961). Depicted as the second Hawkgirl and first Hawkwoman. \n\nWith the fading popularity of superheroes during the late 1940s, the Hawkman feature ended in the last issue of \"Flash Comics\" in 1949. In 1956, DC Comics resurrected the Flash by revamping the character with a new identity and backstory. Following the success of the new Flash, DC Comics revamped Hawkman in a similar fashion with \"The Brave and the Bold\" #34 in 1961. The Silver Age versions of Hawkman and Hawkgirl became married alien police officers from the planet Thanagar who come to Earth in order to study police techniques. Silver Age Hawkgirl is introduced as Shayera Hol (phonetically identical to Shiera Hall), who appears in costume as of her first appearance. Although Silver Age Hawkman joins the Justice League in \"Justice League of America\" #31 in 1964, Silver Age Hawkgirl was not offered membership because Justice League rules only allowed for one new member to be admitted at a time. Several years later, Silver Age Hawkgirl joined the Justice League of America with issue #146 in 1977. In 1981, Silver Age Hawkgirl changed her name to Hawkwoman in the Hawkman backup feature of \"World's Finest Comics\" #274.\n\nWith the establishment of DC's multiverse system, the Golden Age Hawkgirl was said to have lived on Earth-Two and the Silver Age Hawkgirl on Earth-One. \n\nShayera Hall, The Silver Age version of Hawkgirl / Hawkwoman, was a law enforcement officer from the planet Thanagar and wife of Katar Hol, the Silver Age Hawkman and was a member of the Justice League of America.\n\nShe was born on Thanagar, which had a scientifically advanced civilization in which crime was virtually unknown. As an adolescent, Shayera joined the Thanagarian police force and was assigned to assist the force's most decorated officer, Katar Hol, in capturing the Rainbow Robbers. At first, Katar was furious at being assigned an inexperienced young woman as a partner, but he nevertheless became strongly attracted to her. \nTogether, they captured the Rainbow Robbers in their stronghold found behind a waterfall; while on the case, Shayera saved Katar's life and the two fell deeply in love. A few weeks later, Katar proposed to Shayera in front of the same waterfall. She accepted and they were married. Ten years later, the couple was sent to Earth in pursuit of the criminal Byth Rok. Upon reaching Earth, they were befriended by Midway City police commissioner George Emmett, who established cover identities for them as Carter and Shiera Hall. After capturing Byth and bringing him back to their planet, Katar and Shayera chose to return to study Earth's crimefighting methods, and they fought against evil as the superheroes Hawkman and Hawkgirl. Shayera renamed herself Hawkwoman in the early 1980s.\n\nAs Hawkgirl, Shayera eventually joined her husband as a member of the Justice League. She was the first League member admitted as part of the League's vote to lift its prior twelve-member limitation, which had effectively prevented the admission of more women to its ranks. Her membership set precedent for the admission of Zatanna as the League's fifteenth member. Both Zatanna and Shayera became close friends since \"Hawkman\" vol. 2 #4 .\n\nAs Shiera, she first worked as Carter's secretary, but later became co-director of the Midway City Museum. She has a sort of rivalry with the museum naturalist Mavis Trent, who has her eyes on both Hawkman and Carter Hall.\n\nLater, Thanagar had established itself as a military dictatorship bent on conquering other planets. Hawkman and Hawkwoman thwarted Thanagarian plans to invade Earth, destroying their own starship in the process. Hawkman and Hawkwoman remain on Earth, regarded as traitors by everyone on Thanagar. She helped her husband come to terms with the deaths they caused during the battle. Eventually, she changed her codename to Hawkwoman.\n\nFollowing the events of DC's miniseries, \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", the histories of Earth-One and Earth-Two are merged. As a result, both Golden Age and Silver Age versions of Hawkman and Hawkgirl/Hawkwoman live on the same Earth. Initially, the Silver Age Hawkman and Hawkwoman were kept in continuity unchanged. They took Superman to Krypton (now a gas planet), briefly joined Justice League International, teamed-up with Atom, and helped Animal Man defuse a Thanagarian bomb during \"Invasion\". However, DC reversed this decision and rebooted Hawkman continuity after the success of the 1989 \"Hawkworld\" miniseries. Originally, \"Hawkworld\" retold the origins of Silver Age Hawkman and Hawkwoman. After becoming a success, DC Comics launched a \"Hawkworld\" ongoing series set in the present resulting in a complete reboot of Hawkman continuity. By doing so, several continuity errors regarding Hawkman and Hawkwoman's Justice League appearances needed to be fixed.\n\nFollowing Convergence's storyline, Shayera Hol is featured in the Hawkman: Convergence. She is shown working as a curator in Gotham City museum while fighting as Hawkwoman also. At the end of the story her universe vanishes due to the Crisis happening, she is last seen flying with Hawkman.\n\nFollowing Rebirth's continuity, Shayera Hol appeared in the Hawkman Vol. 5 series. She was shown in Thanagar alongside her partner Katar Hol.\n\nWithin the DC Super Hero Girls comics adaptation, Hawkgirl is depicted as a student at Super Hero High, being a Latina superheroine. During the issue \"Hits and Myths\", Kendra alongside Flash, Batgirl and Bumblebee forms a team to help Batgirl locating her missing Batplane. They track the Batplane up until a street bar. There they fight against Black Canary, Silver Banshee and Jinx, during the fight Black Canary escapes with the Batplane, so Hawkgirl, Poison Ivy, Flash, Supergirl and Batgirl chases her to retrieve the batplane, after defeating Black Canary they successfully retrieve the batplane, to celebrate their victory they all go to Themyscira with Wonder Woman to have a slumber party.\nDuring their term on the Justice League John Stewart and Hawkgirl began a romance that lasted until Hawkgirl's betrayal of the Justice League. After that Stewart began something with fellow leaguer Vixen; however, during a trip to the future John Stewart met Warhawk, who called him \"Dad\". This baffled Stewart, but Warhawk did explain what had happen. It turned out he was the child of John and Shayera. When John returned he decided not to tell Shayera immediately; he did eventually tell her, but he also told her he would not be Destiny's puppet. Later on in the \"Justice League Beyond\" comic book series, it is revealed that Shayera and John get back together and gotten married after Vixen is brutally murdered by Shadow Thief. They have a son named Rex Stewart who would later join the Justice League Beyond as Warhawk. After Warhawk was born, Shayera and John decided to leave the Justice League in order to care of Rex.\n\nShayera and Katar are featured in the Elseworlds three-part series \"Legend of the Hawkman\" (2000). The story takes place in the Earth-One timeline, some time after \"The Brave and the Bold\" #34. She is shown wanting to return home to Thanagar while Katar has grown accustomed to life on Earth. Although this mini-series was never labelled as an \"Elseworlds\" project when originally published, it is now accepted as being one, with this story clearly based on the Silver Age versions of Hawkman and Hawkgirl during the pre-\"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" era.\n\nHawkgirl (Shayera Hol) and Hawkman feature in this mini-series set soon after their arrival on Earth as the duo faces an ancient menace with connections to their Thanagarian heritage. In the first chapter, \"The Fallen One\", Shayera has been anxious to return to Thanagar, but Katar feels a responsibility to the museum, especially its upcoming extraterrestrial treasure exhibit. While Katar has adopted Earth as his home Shayera doesn't feel like they belong there. In Tibet a group of archaeologists discovers a Thanagarian gateway carved into a cliff side, after being informed of this Hawkgirl and Hawkman travel to the location.\n\nHawkman deciphers the writing on the gateway and it depicts the life of Thasaro, a Thanagarian child so evil that he threatened the existence of Thanagar's ancient gods. The ancient gods of Aerie condemned Thasaro into a mystic urn. Shayera's ancestor was entrusted with burying the urn so no one could release Thasaro. The archeologists and Katar want to examine the gateway but Shayera insists that the gateway be left alone. Hawkman and Shayera get into a fight until Shayera flies away heartbroken because Katar cares more about archeology than her feelings. Katar's fingerprints genetically opens the gateway. Shayera hears an explosion and heads back to the site. Thasaro appears and makes the stone sentries throughout his chamber come to life. The sentries attack Hawkgirl but she manages to defeat his enforcers and finds Katar within Thasaro's grip. Thasaro then summons corpses like talons that rise up from the ground and pull Hawkgirl into a cavern beneath Thasaro's chamber. The talons maim Hawkgirl, but she manages to break away. Shayera's distress in the cavern awakens the spirit of her ancestor. Shayera's ancestor channels his aura into Shayera and gives her the edge she needs to subdue Thasaro. Thasaro is banished once again into the urn. The urn is then transported to the Midway City Museum so Katar and Shayera can safeguard it. Three months later Shayera is shown wanting to start a family, in the meantime Thanagarian zealots return to Earth to free the heinous fallen god. Thasaro's return brings chaos and devastation to Midway City, but using their Nth Metal weapons Hawkgirl and Hawkman are able to subdue him, banishing him to the fiery depths of Earth's Hell.\n\n\"Justice League Adventures\" is a DC comic book series featuring the Justice League, but set in the continuity (and style) of the television shows \"Justice League Animated\" and \"Justice League Unlimited\"; as opposed to the regular DC Universe.Shayera Hol is featured in the comic, this version of Hawkgirl is really similar to the one introduced in the television show, as the comics serves as a spin-off of the series, with Hawkgirl being one of the founding members of the Justice League.\n\nIn \"\" and \"\", Hawkgirl is a member of a much-hated Justice League, and remains so even after her husband's death by Amazo. In \"Another Nail\", she appears to be close friends with Zatanna. She has forgiven Oliver Queen (in Amazo's body) after he admits feeling responsible for getting Katar killed. Her role as the sole Hawk with League membership is much like her animated counterpart in the \"Justice League\" animated series.\n\nIn \"\", the Hawks tried to return to Thanagar to flee from Lex Luthor's military dictatorship, only to crash in the rain forests of Costa Rica. They decided to remain in hiding. They gave birth to a son and daughter, giving them natural wings. Katar and Shayera were killed in a military strike ordered by Lex Luthor, embracing each other in their final moments. The children were brought up in the jungle ever since. They were bent on revenge against Lex. As Hawkboy, the son ultimately kills Lex with Batman's permission, since he understands what he has been through.\n\nIn Alex Ross's Silver Age-toned \"Justice\", Hawkgirl is a member of the Justice League and co-director of the Midway City Museum, alongside her husband. With the entire JLA's secrets and weaknesses in hand, the Legion of Doom stages a simultaneous attack on nearly every member of the League. Hawkgirl and Hawkman are surprised by Toyman in the Midway City Museum, but manage to survive and decide to investigate his warehouse, where they are assaulted by his forces, and discover that he is making multiple Brainiac androids. She also appears in \"Secret Origins\" and \"Liberty and Justice\".\n\nHawkgirl is featured in \"\" comics. Much like their Silver Age counterparts, Shayera and Katar are married and very much in love.\n\nHawkgirl was chosen for one of the seven features in the one-shot comic book. She lives in Chicago, working as a police detective. She is from Thanagar, her mace vibrates like a smartphone when Nth-Metal Thanagarian weapons are near and she has a secret Hawkroom. It is revealed that she did not leave Thanagar on good terms, after some time collecting Thanagarian weapons from crime scenes she started suspecting something was wrong. This led to her fighting against an ancient Thanagarian that wanted her dead since she chose humans instead of Thanagarians.\n\nErica Schultz, said she was inspired by Justice League Animated version of the character, \"I've always been drawn to strong characters, but what really solidified my love for Shayera was the Justice League cartoon show.\"\n\nDuring a crossover with the cast of \"Scooby-Doo\", Silver Age version of Hawkgirl is featured alongside Hawkman in the Midway City Museum, working as curators. The heroes team-up with the characters from the animated series to discover who were stealing from their workplace. Later they uncover that Shadow Thief, Matter Master and Fadeaway Man were behind it. After a fight against the villains the heroes retrieve the stolen items.\n\nHawkgirl has appeared in a few episodes of \"The All-New Super Friends Hour\" and \"Super Friends\" paired alongside her husband Hawkman. In her appearances on the show, she looked like the Silver Age version of the character. However, in her last appearance during the \"lost season\", Hawkgirl got a new costume (a totally black mask, a yellow one piece with a red belt, and grey boots) and her hair was changed to blonde. She was voiced by Shannon Farnon and Janet Waldo.\n\nHawkgirl appears in the animated series \"Justice League\" and \"Justice League Unlimited\", voiced by Maria Canals-Barrera. She is based on Shayera Hol, the Silver Age version of the character. Her personality was completely redesigned for the series by the producers, who wanted a second female superhero for the team to contrast with Wonder Woman. While Black Canary is traditionally more associated with the Justice League, the producers preferred to have the Hawk family represented. In the animated continuity, Hawkgirl's wings are organic and she wields an Nth metal mace which disrupts magical forces and other forms of energy; she is also depicted as having superhuman strength, endurance, durability and is an expert hand-to-hand combat, as shown in \"In Blackest Night Pt. II\" when she defeated four members of the Green Lantern Corps single-handedly. It can be assumed that she also has some hover capability, as at times she is seen to hang in midair without the visible use of her wings. In the episode \"Only a Dream Pt. 1\", she is seen hovering with Copperhead clinging to her back.\n\nIn \"Secret Origins\", the Martian Manhunter gathers the future League to battle against an alien invasion on Earth. After the defeat of the invasion, the seven remained a team and officially formed the Justice League, dedicated to the defense of Earth against attack both within and without. To the rest of the League, Shayera was a mysterious woman with angelic wings from another world. She explained that she found herself on Earth when, while pursuing some criminals who were trafficking in forbidden technology, she was accidentally transported by the rays of a dimensional transporter known to her people as a Zeta Beam, which has been traditionally associated with DC's science fiction hero Adam Strange.\n\nThroughout the series, she slowly builds a relationship with Green Lantern (John Stewart). In the two-part episode \"Wild Cards\", John is nearly killed by a bomb the Joker has set off while protecting Shayera. She just barely manages to bring him back to life by shocking him with her mace, then leaves the city to treat him. Later, in the Watchtower, John and Shayera show their true feelings for each other, and Shayera allows John to remove her mask, giving the viewer their first look at Hawkgirl's face beneath the mask, and the two share a kiss.\n\nIn the second-season finale \"Starcrossed\", Shayera reveals herself to be a military officer of her planet's armed forces, working as an advance scout on Earth. When her people suddenly arrive in force on Earth, she works to help the Thanagarians gain the support of Earth's leaders to protect it from the Thanagarians' mortal enemies, the Gordanians. She is also reunited with her commanding officer and fiance Hro Talak (an anagram for the name of the Silver Age Hawkman Katar Hol), with both her now-revealed spy mission and this unmentioned romance creating considerable friction between herself and John. Information she has given to the Thanagarians enables them to take the League prisoner, though Shayera says they should not be killed. They later escape.\n\nUnbeknownst to Shayera, the Thanagarians' true intent is to transform Earth into the final link in a hyperspace bypass, which will destroy Earth but allow the Thanagarians to strike a mortal blow at the Gordanians' home world. When Shayera learns of this plan, she betrays her people and informs the Justice League of the Thanagarian plot, proving this by returning John's ring which the Thanagarians had taken. The Thanagarian forces are eventually defeated by the League and forced to leave Earth, with Shayera left behind as a traitor. (For this reason, Shayera is later ambushed by a band of rogue Thanagarian resistance fighters seeking revenge in \"Hunter's Moon\".) The other six members of the League take a vote on whether to allow Shayera to stay on the team, but before they can tell her the result, she resigns from the League and departs (in \"Wake the Dead\", it is revealed that the decision, while split, was in favor of letting her stay, with John abstaining and Superman breaking the tie). She eventually comes to reside with Doctor Fate and his wife Inza in Fate's tower stronghold in an effort to decide what to do with her life.\n\nIn the episode \"Wake the Dead\", Solomon Grundy's corpse is reanimated, and he wreaks havoc. Shayera takes the responsibility of killing Grundy, whom she once considered to be a friend. After this, she returns to the League, but it is some time before she is properly re-accepted among its members, particularly Wonder Woman and Batman (who were likely the two who had previously voted against her remaining on the team). After she is allowed to rejoin the Justice League, Shayera reclaims her seat among the seven founding members and opts to dress in simple civilian clothing as opposed to her previous, more militaristic costume.\nAfter returning to the Justice League, Shayera found conflict with Wonder Woman, the Amazon warrior had reluctantly allowed Shayera to join the team again, however holding a grudge against her. She would sustain that feeling until the episode \"The Balance\", when she was forced to take Shayera along to Themyscira and Tartarus due to Felix Faust's return and his usurping of Hades' throne, Shayera was vital to this mission because her Nth Metal mace was the only weapon capable of stopping Faust. During this mission, Shayera and Wonder Woman settled their differences once and for all. Shayera still met conflict with Vixen. Once, they, during the episode \"Hunter's Moon\", along with Vigilante were assigned to a rescue mission on a distant moon where alien miners were having problems due to the supposed high levels of unstable Nth metal. However, it turned out to be a trap set by Paran Dul, who was leading a group of Thanagarians soldiers including the mentally disabled Kragger. During their confrontation on the moon, Paran revealed that Shayera's betrayal had led to Thanagar's defeat by the Gordanians and that Hro Talak had been killed while fighting back. A distressed Shayera was tempted to turn herself in and let them pass judgment on her, but Vixen and Vigilante refused to let her go.\n\nShayera even offered to surrender in exchange for Vixen who had been captured by the Thanagarians, but then fought back when they almost killed Vixen by dropping her from mid-air. The Thanagarians were defeated and the three League members stole a Thanagarian Scout Ship and returned to the Watchtower. Upon their arrival, John Stewart rushed over to both Vixen and Shayera, but they walked straight past, implying that they were going to settle their dispute over him. Stewart feared the worse, but they merely laughed over drinks during which the two women discussed his quirks and habits. Shayera did reveal that she still loved him while Vixen revealed that he still loved Shayera and that she just wanted to see things through until the end. They agreed to a friendly contest for his affections, with a toast to en garde.\n\nThe show ends with Shayera and Green Lantern (who is by this point in a relationship with League member Vixen) having resolved to be friends for the time being. Series creator Bruce Timm said in an interview that while he was deliberately ambiguous about the future of their relationship and understood while some fans disliked where it was left at the series finale, it was his opinion that \"You can put two and two together and imagine what happens\", especially since Green Lantern has at this point met his future son, Warhawk (Rex Stewart) who indicates that his mother is Shayera. A resolution to this storyline occurs in the fifth issue of the \"Batman Beyond Unlimited\" comic book, in which John and Shayera finally reconcile and settle down to raise a family in Africa. These events are not considered canonical to the DC Animated Universe storyline as the issues were created by independent writers not associated with the original production.\n\nIn addition to John, Shayera shows a strong friendship with the Flash that is touched on several times through both the \"JL\" and \"JLU\" series, usually in a sisterly way, including him being the only one to hug her goodbye after her decision to resign. She is also the first one try and pull him back from the Speed Force in the episode \"Divided We Fall.\" In the \"Justice League Unlimited\" fifth season's debut episode, \"I Am Legion\", Flash says, \"She loves me. She's like the big sister I never had. Only, you know... short.\"\n\nLater Hawkgirl meets archaeologist Carter Hall, who claims they are the re-incarnations of two Thanagarians, Khufu and Chay-Ara, who landed on Earth thousands of years ago, and became rulers of Egypt. The Shadow Thief captures them and Green Lantern and uses Thanagarian technology from that era to show them what happened. After Shayera had an affair with the military leader and closest friend of Katar Bashari, apparently the past John Stewart, due to her husband not spending enough time with her, they were poisoned by the Priest Hath-Set who heard Carter wish they were dead. When he found out, he poisoned himself.\n\nHawkgirl appears in the \"Static Shock\" episode, \"A League of Their Own\", with Maria Canals reprising her role. Within the Watchtower, Batman is checking the stasis field shielding a left-over module from Brainiac from its environs. As Batman explains to Hawkgirl Brainiac's nature as a regenerative program, a virus that will not die, an alarm goes off and Flash calls everyone to the control room. As it turns out, the Watchtower is in the path of a cosmic super string, and even with the shield up, most of the power is drained from the station's generator. Brainiac manages to take advantage of this, escaping from his drained stasis field. Hawkgirl and the Justice League call in Static and Gear to assist in the fight against Brainiac.\n\nHawkgirl is going to be featured in the \"Syfy\" television series \"Krypton\". The series will work as a prequel to the \"Man of Steel\" film. This version of the character is based on Shayera Hol and goes by the codename Hawkwoman. After finding out that a group of villains returned to the past to stop Superman from being born, Shayera and Adam Strange travel through time to prevent this from happening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10417503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10417503", "title": "Showbiz Central", "text": "Showbiz Central\n\nShowbiz Central is a Philippine television talk show broadcast by GMA Network. It was simultaneously broadcast by Super Radyo DZBB 594 kHz. It premiered on April 29, 2007 replacing \"S-Files\". The show concluded on July 29, 2012. It was replaced by \"H.O.T. TV\" in its timeslot.\n\n\"Showbiz Central\" combines showbiz news with innovative and out-of-the-box live interview gimmicks. It serves as an avenue for controversial stars to confess, retaliate, and break exclusive statements. It gives many Filipinos a sneak peek at the most talked about upcoming television series and films. It also bridges the gap that separates the stars from their fans. It gives its viewers an idea of what celebrity life is like behind the camera.\n\n\n\n\nAccording to AGB Nielsen Philippines' Mega Manila household television ratings, the final episode of \"Showbiz Central\" scored a 9.5% rating.\n"}
{"id": "32815155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32815155", "title": "The Comedy Garage", "text": "The Comedy Garage\n\nThe Comedy Garage is a documentary by director Logan Leistikow, released in 2011, depicting a day in the life of five rising star comedians who produce a stand up comedy show performed on a self-made stage in their garage in Burbank, California. Shot cinéma vérité style, the film highlights the unique personalities and techniques of comics Cornell Reid, Matthew Sullivan, Sean Green, Paul Danke, and Casey Feigh.\n\nThe Comedy Garage had been a staple of the Los Angeles comedy scene before filming began. Leistikow met the comedians while working at Tom Green Live. Once he was invited to a comedy garage show, he got inspired and soon began production on the documentary.\n\n"}
{"id": "7017821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7017821", "title": "The Practical Pig", "text": "The Practical Pig\n\nThe Practical Pig is a Silly Symphonies cartoon. It was released on February 24, 1939, and directed by Dick Rickard. It was the second-to-last Silly Symphony made, and the fourth and final cartoon starring The Three Pigs. Like its prequels, \"The Practical Pig\" incorporates the song \"Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?\". Unlike the previous Three Little Pigs Silly Symphonies, this was released as a standalone \"Three Little Pigs Cartoon\", suggesting that they were to get their own series of cartoons. It is also the second-to-last Silly Symphonies cartoon.\n\nPractical Pig is hard at work building a new anti-wolf contraption, this time a lie detector. His two brothers, Fiddler and Fifer Pig, find this funny and laugh; they then decide to go swimming, despite their brother's warning not to as the Wolf is lurking near the local pond. Oblivious to their danger, they are followed to the pond by the Big Bad Wolf, who disguises himself as a voluptuous mermaid to entice them, and then traps them in a net. While the Wolf plans to entrap Practical as well using a fake letter requesting help by his brothers, he tells his sons, the Three Little Wolves, not to eat until he captures Practical. They tell him that they'll wait until he returns with Practical, but as soon as he leaves, they prepare to bake Fiddler and Fifer into a pie.\n\nThe Wolf's messenger boy disguise is seen through when he blows the fake letter under Practical's door. Realizing his brothers have been captured, Practical sees an excellent chance to try out his new invention. The welcome mat then drops in beneath the Wolf's feet, and he falls into a pit below. He is next seen strapped into a chair in Practical's house, helpless against the technology of the resourceful. When interrogated by Practical about the whereabouts of his brothers, the Wolf first claims to have never heard of the two, and the lie detector goes into action; a needle on the machine's indicator points to \"lie\", two steam whistles blow in the manner of a wolf-whistle to signify the claim as such and the machine washes the Wolf's mouth out with soap. Then the Wolf claims to have not seen the two pigs, and gets a spanking from the lie detector. Lastly, he tries to fool the machine into thinking he and Practical are \"pals\" but the lie detector is able to detect this as a lie, and the Wolf ends up getting the works, with his mouth washed out, his butt being spanked, and his knuckles being whacked with rulers.\n\nBack at the wolves' hideout, the Three Little Wolves are about to bake Fifer and Fiddler in the finished pork pie. The pigs remind the wolf boys about their father's warning and tell them they will be sorry when the Wolf returns, but they sarcastically concur with this and laugh. One of the wolves, though, realizes that they forgot to add pepper and sprinkles some onto the pie. However, the pepper shaker lid unexpectedly comes off and the pepper gets everywhere; thus resulting sneeze from the pigs is so strong that it blows the crust right off of the pie and into the wolves, splatting them against a back wall like glue. With their captors trapped, Fifer and Fiddler then escape and rush back to Practical's house.\n\nMeanwhile, the lie detector punishes the Wolf harder and harder until he finally gives in and the machine's indicator points to \"truth\", with a mechanical bird tweeting and playing a harp at which point he tells the truth, \"\"they're in the old... the old mill\". He is then shot out of the house with a firecracker and seemingly explodes in the sky. Practical prepares to go save his brothers when Fiddler and Fifer burst in, slamming the door in his face. When confronted by their older brother on defying his orders, they play innocent and tell him that they didn't go swimming. But the lie detector springs into action, Fiddler and Fifer are flipped over, the force of the flip sends their shorts to their ankles, and their bare bottoms turn bright red as they are soundly spanked. Practical tells them \"Remember, this hurts me worse than it does you\"\", but much to his chagrin, the machine takes him literally and also gives him a spanking as the cartoon ends.\n\nIn Stieg Larsson's thriller \"The Girl Who Played with Fire\", the fiercely independent protagonist Lisbeth Salander several times uses the term \"Practical Pig\" for the journalist Mikael Blomkvist, whose efforts to help her she both appreciates and resents.\n\n"}
{"id": "8202176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8202176", "title": "WWC Aniversario", "text": "WWC Aniversario\n\nAniversario is a professional wrestling card that is held annually by Puerto Rican promotion World Wrestling Council (WWC) to commemorate its anniversary. The first show was held in 1983 to mark the tenth anniversary of WWC's creation in 1973. Various WWC championships are defending at the event, and the 1986 event featured two defenses of the National Wrestling Alliance's NWA World Heavyweight Championship. The show has also been dedicated to various former professional wrestling including Bruiser Brody in 2007 and Hugo Savinovich in 2009. In 2017 WWC did not held the Aniversario show due to the path of Hurricane Maria thru Puerto Rico. \n\nIt took place in three venues:\n\nAniversario 1989 is well known for having various changes and was postponed following the aftermath of Hurricane Hugo\n\nThe 2001 event was nicknamed \"Black September (Septiembre Negro)\".\n\nThis event was dedicated to Isaac Rosario.\n\nThis event was dedicated to Jose Rivera, Sr.\n\nThe 2007 show was dedicated to Bruiser Brody. It consisted of two events. The first event took place at Coliseo de Puerto Rico José Miguel Agrelot in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The second event was held the following day at the Sports and Recreation Palace in Mayagüez, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe event also featured a retirement ceremony of Carlos Colón, which featured Chicky Starr, Harley Race, Jose Rivera, Sr. and Abdullah the Butcher.\n\nThe event was dedicated to former WWC and WWE announcer Hugo Savinovich, which featured Carlos Cabrera, Carlos Colon,and Joe Don Smith\n\nThis event was dedicated to the memory of Pedro \"Huracan\" Castillo. The event was celebrated in Coliseo Ruben Rodriguez at Bayamon, also two other shows were celebrated in Aguadilla and Ponce before the main night in Bayamon. Tommy Dreamer and Daizee Haze were present in Ponce & Aguadilla.\n\nThis event was dedicated to former WWC Universal Champion Hercules Ayala. This event was the start of an invasion angle of IWA (rival promotion) which soon after was cancelled:\n\nThis event was dedicated to The Invaders, Jose Huertas (1), Roberto Soto (2), Johnny Rivera (3) and Maelo Huertas(4). The event was held at Coliseo Ruben Rodriguez in Bayamon.\n\nThis event was dedicated to WWE Hall of Famer and former WWWF (WWE) World Heavyweight Champion Pedro Morales. The event was held at Coliseo Rubén Rodríguez in Bayamón. This was a pay-per-view event.\n\nThis event was dedicated to WWC legend Chicky Starr. The event was held at Coliseo Héctor Sola Bezares in Caguas, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe event was dedicated to Jose Miguel Perez Sr., The event was held at Coliseo Ruben Rodríguez in Bayamon, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe event was dedicated to former Canadian professional wrestler and WWC wrestler Pierre Martel. The event was held at: Humacao Arena (October 14), Cancha Jose Pepin Cesteros in Bayamon (October 15), Palacio de Recreación y Deportes in Mayaguez (October 16)\n\nOctober 15 (Cancha Jose Pepin Cesteros de Bayamon)\nThe World Wrestling Council did not held the WWC Aniversario in 2017 due to the wake of Hurricane María thru Puerto Rico. \n\nJuly 14 (Cancha Mario Quijote Morales, Guaynabo, Puerto Rico)\n"}
{"id": "15683041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15683041", "title": "Yonago City Museum of Art", "text": "Yonago City Museum of Art\n\nThe gallery has a permanent collection of paintings and photographs; the latter is particularly strong for the photographers Teikō Shiotani and Shōji Ueda. It also hosts special exhibitions.\n\nThe museum is at Nakamachi 12, Yonago-shi.\n\n\n"}
