{"id": "38456563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38456563", "title": "1898 Paris–Amsterdam–Paris", "text": "1898 Paris–Amsterdam–Paris\n\nThe 1898 Paris–Amsterdam–Paris Race was a competitive 'city to city' motor race which ran over 7 days from 7–13 July 1898 and covered 1,431 km. It was won by Fernand Charron driving a Panhard et Levassor for 33 hours at an average speed of 43 km/h over unsurfaced roads.\n\nThe event was organised by the Automobile Club de France (ACF) and was sometimes retrospectively known as the III Grand Prix de l'A.C.F.\n\nParis-Amsterdam-Paris Race - 7–13 July 1898 - 1,431 km\nThe \"Categorie Vitesse\" (\"Speed category\") was sub-divided into classes 'A' - vehicles with 2-3 seats; 'B' - (vehicles with 4 seats and 'C' - General.\n\nThe overall results for class A in the 'Categorie Vitesse' were:\nThe stage winners were:\n\nEntrants who did not finish :\n"}
{"id": "58262078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58262078", "title": "1979 Round Australia Trial", "text": "1979 Round Australia Trial\n\nThe 1979 Round Australia Trial, officially the Repco Reliability Trial was the twelfth running of the Round Australia Trial. The rally took place between the 5th and the 19th of August 1979. The event covered 19,000 kilometres around Australia. It was won by Peter Brock, Matt Philip and Noel Richards, driving a Holden Commodore.\n"}
{"id": "36053943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36053943", "title": "Academic graduation by country", "text": "Academic graduation by country\n\nThe procedures and traditions surrounding academic graduation ceremonies differ around the world.\n\nIn India the graduation ceremony is commonly known as convocation. At the universities and institutes, the graduation ceremonies are formal affairs, which include an academic procession by both the academic heads and the students.\n\nAll the Indian Institutes of Technologies (IITs) celebrate a convocation ceremony. A chief guest is invited for the ceremony.\n\nUnderclassmen, parents, and teachers are seated first. The vice principal leads in the local officials and special guests. The teachers all stand and bow to them as they enter. When the graduates enter, they are led by their homeroom teachers. Everyone walks very slow and deliberate. They walk in straight lines and make 90 degree turns if turning is necessary. The students line up next to their chairs and wait for the home room teacher to signal and they all sit at once. The homeroom teacher then joins the rest of the teachers. The head of ceremonies asks everyone to stand and bow towards the Japanese flag. This is coordinated by playing three chords on the piano. 1st-prepare, 2nd-bow, 3rd-return upright.\n\nSinging has a large part in the Japanese schools curriculum and is also a big part of graduation. The first song is Japan's national anthem, followed by the city song and the school song. The latter two are usually printed in the program. This is the last time the graduating class will sing the school song together with the rest of the school. At this point, or after diplomas, the lower class sings to the graduating class, and the graduating class to the lower class. Then everyone sings together. Some of the possible songs are: \"Tabidachi no Hi ni\" , \"Sayonara\", \"Until the World is One\" by Ya-Ya-Yah, \"Sakura\" by Naotaro Moriyama , \"Aogeba Tōtoshi\" and \"Hotaru no Hikari\" (sung to the tune of Auld Lang Syne).\n\nAfter singing has finished the principal, wearing a Japanese style tuxedo or black tie goes to the podium. Usually a female teacher wearing a hakama brings out diplomas on a large tray. The homeroom teacher for each class calls out the names of his or her students in gender-split alphabetical order. Recently some schools have discontinued splitting the class by gender. Students stand and say \"はい\" (hai), Japanese for \"yes\". Large classes may only have their names called. Smaller classes might have each student go to the stage and receive their diploma. They queue up, walking in straight lines, 90 degree turns, at a deliberately slow pace. At some elementary schools the students give a short speech about what they want to do at Junior High before receiving their diplomas.\n\nThe principal reads the diploma out loud once to the first student in each class. The diploma is handed over full size in an open cover (not rolled-up). The principal rotates the diploma to face the student and hands it to them. The student receives the diploma by using their left hand first, and then their right hand before pulling it towards them. The student steps back and exchanges bows with the principal. The student then slowly closes the diploma and folds it under their left hand before turning and walking away. Returning to their seats, students stop and bow to the special guests.\n\nAfter all the students are seated again the principal makes a speech. The speeches are written vertically from top to bottom, right to left on a fan folded piece of paper. The principal's speech is followed by the head of the PTA. At junior high school an underclassmen may give a speech thanking the graduating students for things like being good senpai. And this is followed by a student speech from the student president. Students may give set group speeches, as if a dialogue between the lower class and upper class. Students take turns yelling out parts of the dialogue sometimes being accompanied by everyone or a few other students in unison. This might happen before, in-between and/or after the songs.\n\nAfter ceremony students may get a final address by their homeroom teacher. A few moments later, the graduates are free to roam around the school, in and out of the teachers’ office. At Junior High school, students take everything with them on the last day and may do school cheers with the underclassman in front of the school. The school calendar does not end with graduation. The next business day after the ceremony 1st and 2nd year students continue classes until spring break officially starts.\n\nGraduation is the award or acceptance of an academic degree or diploma . For Filipinos, the term “graduation” usually refers to the graduation ceremonies undergone by graduates who have finished a level of education. Some view a person as having truly graduated only if they have “marched” onstage to accept their diploma during the graduation ceremonies. Thus, graduation may be also considered a coming-of-age ritual for young Filipinos.\nGraduation ceremonies are held at the end of March or, in some cases, the beginning of April of every year.\n\nFilipinos take part in a graduation ceremony every time they complete an educational level. These ceremonies are usually held for graduation from kindergarten, elementary school, high school, vocational school or college, and graduate school. \nAttire\nIn past decades, elementary school and high school graduates usually wore white: white dresses for girls and white polo shirts and black pants for boys. The same went for kindergarten “graduates” except that girls usually wore identical dresses in a style and color agreed upon by the parents. Recent trends call for togas and mortarboards as standard graduation attire. The Department of Education also recently called for austerity measures, prohibiting extravagant spending and requiring students to wear only their school uniforms under their togas.\n\nGraduates of vocational schools and colleges usually wear togas and mortarboards or caps. These are usually black, except for those colleges and universities who have togas made in the school colors. Underneath, the graduates wear formal clothes which may range from “Sunday best” to party attire.\n\nThose who finish post-graduate studies usually wear slightly different togas from those who finish undergraduate degrees. They also wear hoods banded with the color associated with their particular post-graduate course.\n\nAll graduates usually wear corsages pinned on the left lapel or left breast of their clothing.\n\nBaccalaureate Mass\nHigh school graduation ceremonies usually have a baccalaureate mass before the actual graduation ceremonies begin. This is especially true if the school is Catholic. Elementary school and college/post-graduate school graduations may or may not have baccalaureate masses.\n\nUniversities and colleges usually celebrate the baccalaureate mass and baccalaureate ceremonies on a separate day, usually the day before the graduation ceremonies. This is especially true if the school is Catholic. On this day, the awards for extra-curricular and co-curricular activities are given out, leaving only the major academic awards to be given on the graduation day itself.\nAwards\nThe giving of awards for extra-curricular, co-curricular and academic activities are not the same throughout the country. Schools may give out all the awards on graduation day itself, or may do so on a separate day before the graduation ceremonies.\n\nSchools with a small student population usually opt to give out all awards on graduation day itself. However, bigger schools may give out lesser awards on the day before, which is called Recognition Day or Baccalaureate Day. These awards include those for extra-curricular and co-curricular activities like Athlete of the Year and Dancer of the Year, as well as “good conduct” awards such as \"Most Behaved\" and \"Most Neat and Clean\". The number and name of the awards may vary from school to school, depending on whom the teachers wish to honor.\n\nThe major academic awards given out on graduation day for elementary and high school are the awards for valedictorian, salutatorian and honorable mention. Many schools give awards to their top five graduates as follows: valedictorian, salutatorian, and first, second and third honorable mentions. The other awards are usually the Leadership Award and the awards for those who topped the different subjects. The latter are usually referred to as the “Bests”, since they start with the words “Best in...” such as, for example, “Best in Math”.\n\nCollege and post-graduate schools usually award the following awards: summa cum laude (with highest honors), magna cum laude (with high honors), and cum laude (with honors). Unlike the awards given in elementary and high schools which depend on class ranking, undergraduate and post-graduate awards are given based on grade point averages, so that there may be more than one graduate with the same award, or in many cases, none at all.\n\nAwards are usually given in the form of ribbons on which are printed the name of the award, or medals with the name of the award engraved on the back, as well as certificates.\n\nCeremony\nAlthough ceremonies vary from school to school, certain basic elements are usually the same. A typical graduation ceremony starts with the processional, which in some cases consists of the graduating class and their parents who formally walk side by side into the venue for the ceremony. Some schools have the students leave their parents at their designated seats. Boys then go up on the stage from the left and girls from the right. The two lines meet in center stage and go down the front steps, each pair bowing to the audience just before they reach the top step.\n\nAfter the processional comes the invocation, which may either be spoken or sung by a choir or by the graduates themselves. Then, the national anthem is sung and the salutatorian gives their salutatory address which serves as the welcome address or opening remarks. The keynote speaker is then introduced. This speaker may be a notable person, a person of some authority or influence, or even a former student who has made good in their chosen field and whom the school feels should be an inspiration to the graduates. After the keynote address, the school principal, or chancellor in the case of universities, presents the graduates to the representative of the appropriate government institution by having them stand up. The representative in turn declares the students graduates. After this declaration, the graduates are then awarded their diplomas.\n\nThe actual diplomas usually are not awarded during the ceremonies; the graduates get their diplomas and other pertinent papers after they have complied with their clearance. In the past, schools usually handed out rolls of paper tied with a ribbon, symbolizing the diplomas. A graduate came on stage when their name was called, accepted the diploma with their right hand, then transferred it to their left hand and shook the hand of the person awarding the diploma. The graduate then went front and center, held the roll of paper at a slant between their hands, left hand at the bottom and right hand at the top, and bowed, then went down the steps and back to their seat. Present trends, however, are for schools to give out leatherette diploma holders during the ceremony, thus eliminating the need for the formal bow and expediting the ceremony. After the awarding of diplomas, the class valedictorian then gives their valedictory address and leads the school pledge of loyalty. The graduates then sing their graduation song and the awards for outstanding graduates are then given out.\n\nAfter the awards, the school principal then gives the closing remarks and the graduates may sing their closing song. The students and parents then exit the area with a formal recessional. However, they then usually return to have their souvenir pictures taken on the stage.\n\nCandlelight ceremonies are usually held during high school junior-senior (JS) proms. However, some elementary schools in the provinces made candlelight ceremonies part of the graduation rites. In the original candlelight ceremony for proms, the senior class president usually lit a large ceremonial candle on the stage, then lit their own candle from this flame and symbolically “passed the flame” to the junior class president. The member of the senior class nearest the stage then went up to light their candle and went down to pass the flame to the other seniors, who would then give their lit candles to the juniors.\n\nFor elementary school graduation rites, the graduating class sings “One Little Candle” while the class valedictorian lights the ceremonial candle then passes the flame to the other graduates. The graduates blow out the flame together when they are declared graduates.\n\nThe graduation song is a vital part of the ceremony. It is considered a symbol of the graduating class and is usually chosen by the graduates, although in some cases the class adviser or the teachers may choose the song themselves. The graduates usually try to choose a song that will express their feelings about graduation.\n\nSome songs have been chosen over and over as graduation songs and in many cases have defined a generation. The Diana Ross song “If We Hold On Together”, for example, became the graduation song in many Philippine schools in the early 1990s. Other songs that Filipino students have chosen to sing during their graduation rites are “Farewell” by Raymond Lauchengco, “The Journey” by Lea Salonga, and “High School Life” by Sharon Cuneta.\n\n“Garlands” are essential to graduations in the Philippines. These are usually made from ribbon, shaped into a lei and adorned with “flowers” made from the same material. Fresh flowers are never used for graduation garlands, except for everlasting flowers. Some people create special garlands by tying individually wrapped candies end to end; these are usually popular with kindergarten and elementary school graduates. Recently, garlands made of seashells have also been given at graduation rites.\n\nMany high schools now place stands beside the stage and hang garlands on them. When the graduates exit the stage after getting their diplomas, lowerclassmen usually put garlands on each of them. After the recessional, family and friends also place garlands around the necks of the graduates. Some people also give graduation gifts during this time; however, garlands are de rigueur.\n\nAt the University of the Witwatersrand (WITS), the graduation ceremonies are formal affairs, which include an academic procession by the faculty staff. The WITS choir is always present, and as a fun twist once the academic procession has left the hall, the song \"I Got You (I Feel Good)\" by James Brown is played over the loudspeakers.\n\nIn Sweden a high school graduation ceremony is celebrated as a tradition. The graduating students wear a student cap and celebrate the graduation ceremony. The students gather with their parents and well wishers, and rally on roads celebrating the high school graduation ceremony.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, unlike the United States, students do not usually 'graduate' from school below university level. They will normally leave secondary school or a sixth form college (if applicable) with specific qualifications, such as General Certificate of Education GCSEs and A-levels, Scottish Qualification Authority Standard Grades and Higher national courses or, less frequently, other certificates such as the International Baccalaureate. However, these are not usually presented in a formal ceremony.\n\nMany university graduation ceremonies in the United Kingdom begin with a procession of academics, wearing academic dress. This procession is accompanied by music, and a ceremonial mace is often carried. After this, an official reads out the names of the graduates one by one, organized by class of degree and/or by subject. When their names are called, the graduates walk across the stage to shake hands with a senior official, often the university's Chancellor or the vice-chancellor. This may be followed by the conferring of an honorary doctorate to a highly accomplished guest where a citation is usually read by a member of staff of the relevant faculty/school/department. Graduands wear the academic dress of the degree they are receiving. A speech by the chancellor/vice-chancellor towards the graduates is delivered at the start or towards the end of the ceremony. The actual degree certificate is typically not given to the graduand during the ceremony itself and is instead sent by post to the graduand's home address.\n\nSome of the older universities may hold their graduation ceremonies in Latin, even though few students understand this language. The Latin section of the ceremony may include a rendition of an anthem, sometimes called the unofficial anthem of all universities, the De Brevitate Vitae, also known as \"The Gaudeamus\". Member institutions of the University of Wales hold their graduation ceremonies almost entirely in the Welsh language.\n\nAt King's College London, the graduands shake the hand of the university's President & Principal (normally equivalent to a UK university's vice-chancellor). In addition, the hand of the Chairman of the King's College London Council, instead of its Chancellor (the senior official of University of London) is shaken. After being vested the power to award its own degrees from the University of London in 2006, graduates since 2008 wear an academic dress that does not feature a hat, designed by Dame Vivienne Westwood.\n\nWith the influence of the University of London's tradition, being the first university in the world to devise a system of academic dress based on faculty colours, the gowns and hoods have been designed with colours that reflect the university's faculties/schools/institutes of study and the level of the degree. Owing to its unique shape, the hood cannot be folded flat.\n\nAt the University of Oxford graduands wear the dress of their status before graduating (their previous degree, or undergraduate academic dress), afterwards changing into the dress of the degree they have just received. Serving members of the armed forces may wear their military uniform underneath.\n\nAt the University of Cambridge, graduands are presented in the Senate House college by college. During the graduation ceremony, officially called a \"Congregation\", graduands are brought forth by the Praelector of their college, who takes them by the right hand, and presents them to the vice-chancellor for the degree they are about to take. After presentation, the graduand is called by name and kneels before the vice-chancellor and proffers their hands to the vice-chancellor, who clasps them and then confers the degree. The graduate then rises, bows, and leaves the Senate House through the Doctor's door into Senate House passage, where they receive their diploma.\n\nGraduands wear the academical dress to which they were entitled immediately before graduating, including the hood. If this dress does not itself include a hood (e.g. they are undergraduates becoming Bachelors of Arts), they wear the hood of the degree to which they are about to be admitted. Thus a Master of Arts (M.A.) about to become a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) wears the dress of an M.A. A graduate of another university who is not yet a Cambridge graduate wears a B.A. status (for those aged under 24) or M.A. status (24 or over) gown i.e. their previous academical dress, plus the hood of a Ph.D.\n\nThe degree ceremony at the University of St Andrews is conducted through a meeting of the Senatus Academicus in the Younger Hall, and dates back to the early antecedents of the University. The graduation is similar to many others, commencing with an academic procession (\"juniores priores\"/in reverse order of seniority) of the masters, Principal, the maces, and Chancellor, during which the graduands and their guests sing The Gaudeamus. Much of the ceremony is conducted in Latin. Once seated, the Prayer is read by the Dean of Divinity/Principal of St Mary's College. After this graduands are called forward individually by the Dean of the Faculty within which they are a member (Arts, Divinity, Medicine, and Science). The graduand comes to the graduation desk before the Chancellor (or in his absence, the Principal, acting in the capacity of Vice-Chancellor), proffering the hood of the degree that they are about to receive to the Bedellus, and kneels. The Chancellor then says:\n\nSucceeding graduates to the same degree receive the formula \"Et super te\" (and upon you also).\nThe Chancellor then touches the graduand's head with the graduation cap, and the Bedellus steps forth and places the hood of the degree to be conferred over the newly promoted graduate. The graduate then rises and bows to the Chancellor, and exits the stage to collect their diploma, before joining their fellow graduates in the main hall. \nOnce the ceremony is complete the Benediction is read, again by the Dean of Divinity, and the academic procession leaves the hall \"seniores priores\"/in order of seniority, with the new graduates joining the end as a sign of the accession to the academic community. The procession continues down North Street to the quadrangle of the United College of St Salvator and St Leonard, where it dissolves.\n\nAfter each afternoon graduation, the General Council hosts a garden party for the new graduates and their guests, usually on the Lower College Lawn.\n\nDue to the large number and geographical dispersion of students, unlike most UK universities, degree ceremonies at the Open University are not the occasion on which degrees are \"formally\" conferred. This happens \"in absentia\" at a joint meeting of the University's Council and Senate (\"congregation\") on an occasion prior to and entirely separate from the ceremony - it is not unusual for Open University graduates to attend their degree ceremony some months (or even years) after they have formally graduated. The University's ceremonies – or \"Presentations of Graduates\" – occur during the long summer throughout Britain and Ireland, as well as one ceremony in Versailles.\n\nIn the United States, besides \"commencement,\" the term \"graduation\" is also used in schools below university level such as the high school, middle school and even kindergarten and preschool ceremonies.\n\nThe American Council on Education (ACE) is the authority on academic regalia in the US, and has developed an Academic Ceremony Guide that is generally followed by most institutions of higher learning. The ceremony guide and the related \"Academic Costume Code\" provide the core of academic ceremony traditions in the US. The ACE code addresses college and university dress: high school and other lower school gown colors vary from institution to institution.\n\nAt many large US institutions, where many hundreds of degrees are being granted at once, the main ceremony (commencement) involving all graduates in a sports stadium, amphitheater, parade ground or lawn, or other large – often outdoor – venue is usually followed, but sometimes preceded, by smaller ceremonies (\"diploma ceremony\") at sites on or around campus where deans and faculty of each academic organization (college, academic department, program, etc.) distribute diplomas to their graduates.\n\nAnother means of handling very large numbers of graduates is to have several ceremonies, divided by field of study, at a central site over the course of a weekend instead of one single ceremony. At large institutions the great number of family members and guests that each graduating student wishes to attend may exceed the capacity of organizers to accommodate. Universities try to manage this by allocating a specified number of graduation tickets to each student that will be graduating.\nAt most colleges and universities in the US, a faculty member or dean will ceremoniously recommend that each class of candidates (often by college but sometimes by program/major) be awarded the proper degree, which is then formally and officially conferred by the president or other institutional official. Typically, this is accomplished by a pair of short set speeches by a senior academic official and a senior institutional official:\n\nFor students receiving an advanced degree, many colleges include a Hooding Ceremony in their commencement program, in which the students wear a hood. Candidates traditionally have the hood placed upon them at the podium, though this has become less practical at large commencement ceremonies. At Fordham University, graduates of a college put on the hood by themselves \"en masse\" after the university president confers the degree upon them from the podium. This is called 'to self-hood'. Doctorates are nearly universally hooded upon the stage.\n\nThe hood is a part of traditional academic dress whose origins date back many centuries. Today, the hood is considered by some to be the most expressive component of the academic costume. Today’s hoods have evolved from a practical garment to a symbolic one.\nAn academic hood is a symbolic garment, which is worn draped around the neck and over the shoulders, displayed down the back with the lining exposed. The hood’s length signifies the degree level; with the institution's colors in the lining and a velvet trim in a standardized color that signifies the scholar’s field.\n\nA graduation or commencement speech, in the U.S., is a public speech given by a student or by alumnus of a university to a graduating class and their guests. Common themes of the graduation speech include wishing the graduates well in the \"real world\", cautioning that the world of academe is a special place where they were taught to think (a common variation contradicts this view). More recently, the trend has been to find a celebrity or a politician to deliver the speech.\n\nNotable exceptions are Columbia University, Davidson College, and Belmont University, where the tradition has been that only the current university president gives the commencement address. Though there is only one commencement, individual colleges and schools of Columbia often invite a speaker at separate graduation ceremonies held earlier or on another day, however.\n\nMany homeschooling groups hold their own graduation ceremonies, as it is uncommon (and often not permitted) for homeschool graduates to participate in their local school district's official graduation ceremony. Some GED testing centers hold graduation ceremonies for those who take the GED and pass.\n\nThe parents and students of the class of 2009 in Centerburg, Ohio held their own unofficial graduation ceremony at the local park when the school board decided to cancel the official graduation ceremony, in response to a cheating scandal, even though only one person out of the entire 97-student graduating class was ever proven guilty of cheating. The school board's response was criticized by most media outlets in Ohio and even gained nationwide media coverage in the United States. The parents' and students' decision to hold their own graduation ceremony was cheered by many local businesses, and received mixed views, mostly through later letters to the editor of the \"Columbus Dispatch\" and other newspapers in the area.\n\nIt is common for graduates not to receive their actual diploma at the ceremony but instead a certificate indicating that they participated in the ceremony or a portfolio to hold the diploma in. At the high school level, this allows academic administrators to withhold diplomas from students who are unruly during the ceremony, or whose friends and family disrupt the proceedings. Some schools have banned the sounding of bull horns by the relatives of graduating students.\n\nHigh schools often inform guests at the start of a graduation ceremony that cheering for individual students should be reserved until all the student's names have been read, and their certificates collected.\n\nAt the college level, this allows students who need an additional quarter or semester to satisfy their academic requirements to nevertheless participate in the official ceremony with their cohort before receiving their degree. In addition, with large numbers of students receiving diplomas and often no specific order they walk in, it is impossible for their actual diplomas to be given to them at the ceremony, thus them receiving simply a blank diploma to be filled later.\n\nPeople often throw graduation parties to celebrate the event. These parties can be more general ones, or they can also be themed. Games can be present, as well as music. Flower leis can also be incorporated into celebrations for graduating students, particularly in Hawaii. Parties can also have a food truck rented out for them.\n"}
{"id": "10683971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10683971", "title": "Applefest", "text": "Applefest\n\nApplefest is a yearly village-wide food, entertainment and crafts fair, taking place in several towns in Canada, the United States and England.\n\nBrighton, Ontario's Applefest, founded in 1975, is held annually on the last full weekend in September. Events include BBQ's and breakfasts, entertainment, children's activities, dances, a street fair, car show, arts and crafts, and a parade.\n\nThe Bayfield Apple Festival, held in early October, was listed among \"Top Ten Autumn Festivals in North America\" by the Society of American Travel Writers in 2006. The 2010 festival will mark its 49th year, and in 2009 it attracted over 50,000 people. The city of Bayfield, Wisconsin, located on the southwest shore of Lake Superior, serves as the gateway to the Apostle Islands and was named by the Chicago Tribune as the \"Best Little Town in the Midwest.\" Featured are classic apple fest activities such as an apple pie and apple peeling contests, live music, and a carnival. There is also an annual parade, over 150 arts and crafts booths, and Venetian boat parade in the harbor.\n\nIn Warwick, New York, Applefest is held on the first Sunday of October in the streets and parks of the village of Warwick, located in the Hudson Valley of New York. It attracts over 30,000 people each year, usually coming from points south, Northern New Jersey and the New York City area. In the past Applefest was voted by readers of the \"Times Herald-Record\" newspaper as the top \"Family Event\", and was named one of the top ten festivals in the \"Top 100 Events in North American\" by the American Bus Association. The festival features over 250 craft vendors displaying their handmade jewelry, stained glass, pottery, woodcarvings and more; dozens of food vendors offering traditional American favorites and more exotic ethnic cuisine; fifty local non-profit exhibitors; free music & entertainment; Farmers' Market, and a children's activities. Applefest began in 1989 as a simple harvest celebration, and is now produced by the Warwick Valley Chamber of Commerce. Festival proceeds benefit these and other local non-profit organizations.\n\nThe Woodbine Applefest is always held each year on the last Saturday in September from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. The 25th Anniversary Applefest was held on Saturday, September 28, 2013. The event usually includes many vendor booths, a car show, a pancake feed, and a fun run, as well as many types of entertainment in the outdoor amphitheater. Admission is free.\n\nThe Hilton Apple Fest, located in Hilton, New York is also held in October each year and attracts approximately 70,000 visitors. The festival donates $5,000 per year on average to groups such as Ambulance Corps, local libraries, village parks, the Food Shelf, Camp Good Days and Special Times, the Historical Society, Braddock Bay Raptor Research, and other community center projects.\n\nApplefest is also a yearly three-day festival held in Franklin, Pennsylvania that starts the first Friday of October that attracts over 300,000 people. The three-day event is the largest crafts festival in western Pennsylvania.\n\nThe festival includes an apple pancake breakfast, apple-pie-baking and -eating contests, a 5K race, a car show, and more than 300 craft and vendor booths.\n\nWashington State Apple Blossom Festival attracts over 100,000 people a year in Wenatchee the self-proclaimed \"Apple Capital of the World.\" It is the oldest major festival in the state of Washington.The Festival was born in 1919,\n\nMusic including folk, gospel, blues, country, rock, bluegrass and more as well as displays from local, regional and national artists begins daily during the festival at 10 am.\n\nThe La Crescent Apple Festival is a four-day festival celebrated the third weekend of September. The Apple Festival was founded in September 1949 with the purpose of promoting La Crescent and its apple industry. The first Apple Festival was a huge success, drawing a crowd of nearly 20,000 people and the festival has grown in size and quality every year. All profits made from the festivals are given back to the community for various projects.\n\nOther Applefests include the Tenbury Wells Applefest, held each year in October in Tenbury Wells in England, as well as others held in Clarksville, Missouri, Northborough, Massachusetts, and Owensboro, Kentucky.\n\n"}
{"id": "12077284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12077284", "title": "Atlanta Trumpet Festival", "text": "Atlanta Trumpet Festival\n\nThe Atlanta Trumpet Festival is hosted by the Atlanta Trumpet Ensemble under the direction of Kay and David Fairchild. The festival started in conjunction with the creation of the \"Atlanta Youth Trumpet Ensemble\" in 2004 which has since been renamed the Atlanta Trumpet Ensemble. The festival occurs annually around mid-September and lasts a total of two days. Throughout the day trumpet players from around North America participate in rehearsals and clinics given by some of the finest trumpet instructors of the United States.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40192939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40192939", "title": "Benoît and the Mandelbrots", "text": "Benoît and the Mandelbrots\n\nBenoît and the Mandelbrots, named after French American mathematician Benoît Mandelbrot, is a Computer Music band formed in 2009 in Karlsruhe, Germany. They are known for their live coded and Algorave performances, the Digital Arts practice of improvising with programming languages.\n\nThe band consists of Juan A. Romero, Holger Ballweg, Patrick Borgeat and Matthias Schneiderbanger, who met while studying at the Institute for Musicology and Music Informatics at the University of Music Karlsruhe in Germany. They perform live using the SuperCollider programming language, writing code to improvise music in a range of electronic music genres, from techno to noise.\n\nAs an improvising group focused on live performance, they have performed at major venues on the international stage, and were recognised with an honorary mention at the highly prestigious Prix Ars Electronica awards in 2012, and had a live recording published by the esteemed Computer Music Journal in 2011. In 2016 they released their first album as double vinyl and digital download, featuring live coded improvisation.\n\n"}
{"id": "15602282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15602282", "title": "Birthday effect", "text": "Birthday effect\n\nThe birthday effect (sometimes called the birthday blues, especially when referring specifically to suicide) is a statistical phenomenon where an individual's likelihood of death appears to increase on or close to their birthday. The birthday effect has been seen in studies of general populations in England and Wales, Switzerland, Ukraine, and the United States, as well as in smaller populations such as Major League Baseball players. Studies do not consistently show this effect; some studies find that men's and women's mortality rates diverge in the run-up to the birthday, while others find no significant gender effect. Suggested mechanisms for the effect include alcohol consumption, psychological stress relating to the birthday, increased suicide risk, terminally ill patients attempting to hold on until their birthday, an increased mortality salience, or a physiological cycle that causes the body to weaken annually. It has also been suggested that it may be a statistical artifact, perhaps as a result of anomalies in reporting, but the birthday effect has also been seen in studies that control for known reporting anomalies.\n\nWith the introduction of statistical software that can process large datasets easily, a number of state- or country-wide studies have been carried out to investigate whether birthdays have any effect on mortality. The first large-scale study used the records of 2,745,149 Californians who died between 1969 and 1990. After correcting for confounding factors such as seasonality in deaths, elective surgery, and people born on February 29, there was a significant increase in deaths in the week before the individual's birthday for men, and in the week after the birthday for women – in both cases, mortality did not peak on the birthday, but close to it. This effect was consistent across age and race cohorts.\n\nA similar study among 12,275,033 Swiss found the highest mortality on the actual birthday (17% greater than the expected value), and the effect was largest for those over 80; another study on Swiss data found a 13.8% excess and was able to link this to specific causes: heart attack and stroke (predominant in women) and suicides and accidents (predominant in men), as well as an increase in cancer deaths. Among 25 million Americans who died between 1998 and 2011, 6.7% more people than expected die on their birthday, and the effect was most pronounced at weekends and among the young – among 20 to 29 year olds, the excess was over 25%. An even greater excess was found in the population of Kiev, where between 1990 and 2000 there were 44.4% more deaths than expected among men on their birthdays and 36.2% more than expected among women. Smaller biographical studies have also shown a birthday effect within subpopulations, such as among Major League Baseball (MLB) players and people with entries in the \"Encyclopedia of American History\".\n\nFocusing on suicide deaths alone, large studies have found evidence for a peak in suicides on or just after a birthday in Denmark and Hungary, but not in Bavaria or Taiwan.\n\nHowever, other studies have not found such a correlation. A study using the populations of Denmark and Austria (a total of 2,052,680 deaths over the time period) found that although people's life span tended to correlate with their month of birth, there was no consistent birthday effect, and people born in autumn or winter were more likely to die in the months further from their birthday. A study of all cancer deaths in Germany from 1995 to 2009 found no evidence of a birthday effect, although it did find a related Christmas effect. A small study by Leonard Zusne found birthday effects among both male and female cohorts, where women were more likely to die immediately before a birthday and men more likely to die immediately after, but that when averaged together there was no birthday effect among the population as a whole. The same was found for a study of mortality data in England and Wales, where there was a statistically significant birthday effect among each subgroup (men and women; never married, married, divorced and widowed) but it was not seen in the population as a whole.\n\nBirthday celebrations are often associated with large increases in alcohol consumption. Binge drinking can increase an individual's risk of death through alcohol poisoning, accidents and drunk driving, as well as by exacerbating existing conditions and increasing suicide risk. In the USA where the drinking age is 21, there is a very large mortality rate excess on the 21st birthday and the day immediately following, almost entirely attributable to an increase in accidents.\n\nTwo mutually contradictory explanations have been put forward that rely on psychosomatic effects. On the one hand, a birthday provides a fixed date to focus on, allowing the terminally ill to hold on until the day itself. On the other hand, a birthday also reminds the individual of mortality and offers an occasion to look back on life. According to the terror management theory, this causes stress which can accelerate death. The uneven mortality rate distribution between men and women, and between more and less successful baseball players, suggests that both may play a role in the birthday effect: people who have focused on the public sphere of life (for example, career-driven people or professional athletes) might be reminded that their glory days have passed, while those who lived more in the private sphere (such as stay-at-home parents and amateur sports players) are more aware of what they will lose in death and try to hold on. Related is the \"broken promise effect\", whereby a person suffering suicidal ideation will wait until a birthday or other significant event to see whether their circumstances will improve.\n\nThe psychosomatic/psychological model would also explain the similar increase in cancer deaths around holidays such as Christmas, and is supported by the fact that these appear to be dependent on culture – there is a Passover effect among the Jewish community (which moves with the festival itself), and a Mid-Autumn Festival effect among the Chinese.\n\nIt has been suggested that, like the 24-hour circadian rhythm, the body also has a yearly \"circannual\" biological rhythm. Vaiserman et al. have suggested that the climatic conditions at birth act as a zeitgeber that triggers internal stress and increases the chance of death.\n\nIt is possible when processing death certificates to confuse the date of birth and date of death fields, which would increase the apparent number of certificates in which these coincide. Additionally, where the exact date is not known, the 1st and 15th of the month are often used as placeholders. These will cause an excess of births and deaths recorded on these dates. However studies also find changes in the mortality rate in the days immediately before and after (which are unlikely to be caused by data processing anomalies), which suggests that statistical artifacts alone cannot explain the birthday effect.\n"}
{"id": "1192720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1192720", "title": "Boston Music Awards", "text": "Boston Music Awards\n\nFounded in 1987, the Boston Music Awards are a set of music awards given annually that showcase talent in the Boston, Massachusetts area.\n\nPast shows have featured such notable talent as Aerosmith, Paula Cole, Esperanza Spalding, Boston, Rubyhorse, Bang Camaro, The Dresden Dolls, Dropkick Murphys, JoJo, Pat Metheny, Amanda Palmer, Phish, Donna Summer, Shea Rose, James Taylor and Jada.\n\nThe 2017 Boston Music Awards takes place on December 7, 2017 at the House of Blues, Boston. 36 winners were announced with PVRIS taking home the coveted Artist of the Year Award. The night saw 10 live performances from Bad Rabbits, Tall Heights, Weakened Friends, STL GLD, Carissa Johnson, Avenue, no hope / no harm, Latrell James, Camino 84, and Sidney Gish.\n\nThe 2016 Boston Music Awards took place on December 8, 2016.\n\nThe 2015 Boston Music Awards were held on December 9, 2015 at the Sinclair in Cambridge. Awards included: Artist of the year: Speedy Ortiz; Album/EP of the year: Foil Deer by Speedy Ortiz; New Artist of the year: Palehound; Rock/Indie artist of the year: Dirty Bangs; Hip-hop artist of the year: Michael Christmas; Pop artist of the year: Ruby Rose Fox;International artist of the year: Shun Ng; Metal artist of the year: Worshipper; Jazz artist of the year: Lake Street Dive.\n\nLaurie Geltman Outstanding Female Vocalist\n\nPowerman 5000 won Album Of The Year and the Rising Star award\n\nAmerican Hi-Fi won the Rising Star award\n\nThe So and So's won the Local Debut Album of the Year award.\n\nRay Lamontagne Best Male Singer/Songwriter, Album of the Year, and Song of the Year\n\nThe 2006 Boston Music Awards were held in the Avalon Ballroom on September 27, 2006. Awards included:\nFemale Vocalist of the Year: Amanda Palmer (Dresden Dolls); Male Vocalist of the Year: Josh Ritter; Outstanding Pop/Rock Band: Dresden Dolls; Act of the Year: Dresden Dolls; Best New Local Act: HUMANWINE; Album of the Year (Indie): Misson of Burma – The Obliterati; Album of the Year (Major): Guster – Ganging Up On the Sun; Female Singer/Songwriter: Melissa Ferrick; Male Singer/Songwriter: Will Dailey; Hall of Fame Induction: Gang GreenBest Funk or Jam Band: Parker House and Theory\n\nThe 2010 Boston Music Awards were presented on December 6, 2010, at the Liberty Hotel in Boston. Peter Wolf's \"Midnight Souvenirs\" won the prize for album of the year and Amanda Palmer was named artist of the year. The Dropkick Murphys were Live Artist of the Year, M-Dot was named Hip-Hop Artist of the year, Kingsley Flood won as New Artist of the Year, and \"Living in America\" by Dom won Song of the Year. In total, 32 awards were given.\n\nShea Rose R&B/Soul/Urban Contemporary Artist of the Year\n\nEsperanza Spalding Jazz Artist of the Year\n\nShea Rose Pop/R&B Artist of the Year\n"}
{"id": "14623686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14623686", "title": "Byzantine–Arab wars (780–1180)", "text": "Byzantine–Arab wars (780–1180)\n\nBetween 780–1180, the Byzantine Empire and the Abbasid & Fatimid caliphates in the regions of Iraq, Palestine, Syria, Anatolia and Southern Italy fought a series of wars for supremacy in the Eastern Mediterranean. After a period of indecisive and slow border warfare, a string of almost unbroken Byzantine victories in the late 10th and early 11th centuries allowed three Byzantine Emperors, namely Nikephoros II Phocas, John I Tzimiskes and finally Basil II to recapture territory lost to the Muslim conquests in the 7th century Byzantine-Arab Wars under the failing Heraclian Dynasty.\n\nConsequently, large parts of Syria, excluding its capital city of Damascus, were taken by the Byzantines, even if only for a few years, with a new theme of Syria integrated into the expanding empire. In addition to the natural gains of land, and wealth and manpower received from these victories, the Byzantines also inflicted a psychological defeat on their opponents by recapturing territory deemed holy and important to Christendom, in particular the city of Antioch—allowing Byzantium to hold two of Christendoms' five most important Patriarchs, those making up the Pentarchy. \n\nNonetheless, the Arabs remained a fierce opponent to the Byzantines and a temporary Fatimid recovery after \"c.\" 970 had the potential to reverse many of the earlier victories. And while Byzantium took large parts of Palestine, Jerusalem was left untouched and the ideological victory from the campaign was not as great as it could have been had Byzantium recaptured this fourth Patriarchal seat of Christendom. Byzantine attempts to stem the slow but successful Arab conquest of Sicily ended in a dismal failure. Syria would cease to exist as a Byzantine province when the Turks took the city of Antioch in \"c\". 1084. The Crusaders took the city back for Christendom in 1097 but a Byzantine protectorate was established over the Crusader Kingdoms in Jerusalem and Antioch under Manuel I Komnenos. The death of Manuel Komnenos in 1180 terminated military campaigns far from Constantinople and after the Fourth Crusade both the Byzantines and the Arabs were engaged in other conflicts until they were conquered by the Ottoman Turks in the 15th and 16th centuries, respectively.\n\nIn 629, conflict between Byzantine Empire and Arabs started when both parties confronted in the Battle of Mu'tah. Having recently converted to Islam and unified by the Islamic Prophet's call for a \"Jihad\" (struggle) against the Byzantine and Persian Empires, they rapidly advanced and took advantage of the chaos of the Byzantine Empire, which had not fully consolidated its re-acquisitions from the Persian invasions in c. 620. By 642, the Empire had lost Egypt, Palestine, Syria and Mesopotamia. Despite having lost two-thirds of its land and resources (most of all the grain supply of Egypt) the Empire nonetheless retained 80,000 troops, thanks to the efficiency of the Thema system and a reformed Byzantine economy aimed at supplying the army with weapons and food. With these reforms, the Byzantines were able to inflict a number of defeats against the Arabs; twice at Constantinople in 674 and 717 and at Akroinon in 740. Constantine V, the son of Leo III (who had led Byzantium to victory in 717 and 740) continued the successes of his father by launching a successful offensive that captured Theodosioupolis and Melitene. Nonetheless, these conquests were temporary; the Iconoclasm controversy, the ineffective rule of Irene and her successors coupled with the resurrection of the Western Roman Empire under the Frankish Carolingian Empire and Bulgarian invasions meant that the Byzantines were on the defensive again.\n\nBetween 780 and 824, the Arabs and the Byzantines were settled down into border skirmishing, with Arab raids into Anatolia replied in kind by Byzantine raids that \"stole\" Christian subjects of the Abbasid Caliphate and forcibly settled them into the Anatolian farmlands to increase the population (and hence provide more farmers and more soldiers). The situation changed however with the rise to power of Michael II in 820. Forced to deal with the rebel Thomas the Slav, Michael had few troops to spare against a small Arab invasion of 40 ships and 10,000 men against Crete, which fell in 824. A Byzantine counter in 826 failed miserably. Worse still was the invasion of Sicily in 827 by Arabs of Tunis. Even so, Byzantine resistance in Sicily was fierce and not without success whilst the Arabs became quickly plagued by the cancer of the Caliphate— internal squabbles. That year, the Arabs were expelled from Sicily but they were to return.\n\nIn 829, Michael II died and was succeeded by his son Theophilos. Theophilos received a mixed diet of success and defeat against his Arab opponents. In 830 AD the Arabs returned to Sicily and after a year-long siege took Palermo from their Christian opponents and for the next 200 years they were to remain there to complete their conquest, which was never short of Christian counters. The Abbasids meanwhile launched an invasion of Anatolia in 830 AD. Al-Ma'mun triumphed and a number of Byzantine forts were lost. Theophilos did not relent and in 831 captured Tarsus from the Muslims. Defeat followed victory, with two Byzantine defeats in Cappadocia followed by the destruction of Melitene, Samosata and Zapetra by vengeful Byzantine troops in 837. Al-Mu'tasim however gained the upper hand with his 838 victories at Dazimon, Ancyra and finally at Amorium—the sack of the latter is presumed to have caused great grief for Theophilos and was one of the factors of his death in 842.\n\nMichael III was only two years of age when his father died. His mother, the Empress Theodora took over as regent. After the regency had finally removed Iconoclasm, war with the Saracens resumed. Although an expedition to recover Crete failed in 853, the Byzantine scored three major success in 853 and 855. A Byzantine fleet sailed unopposed in Damietta and set fire to all the ships in the harbour, returning with many prisoners. Better still for Constantinople was the desperate and futile defense by the Emir of Melitene, whose realm was lost by the Arabs forever. Insult was added to injury for the Arabs when the Arab governor of Armenia began losing control of his domain. After the 9th century, the Arabs would never be in a dominant position in the East. \n\nIn the West however, things went the Saracen way; Messina and Enna fell in 842 and 859 whilst Islamic success in Sicily encouraged the warriors of the \"Jihad\" to take Bari in 847, establishing the Emirate of Bari which would last to 871. In invading southern Italy, the Arabs attracted the attention of the Frankish powers north.\n\nMichael III decided to remedy the situation by first taking back Crete from the Arabs. The island would provide an excellent base for operations in southern Italy and Sicily or at the least a supply base to allow the still resisting Byzantine troops to hold out. In 865 Bardas, maternal uncle to Michael III and one of the most prominent members of his regency, was set to launch an invasion when a potential plot against his wife by Basil I and Michael III (the former being the future emperor and favorite of the latter) was discovered. Thus Islamic Crete was spared from an invasion by Byzantium's greatest general at the time.\n\nLike his murdered predecessor, the reign of Basil I saw a mixture of defeat and victory against the Arabs. Byzantine success in the Euphrates valley in the East was complemented with successes in the west where the Saracens were driven out of the Dalmatian coast in 873 and Bari fell to the Byzantines in 876. However, Syracuse fell in 878 to the Sicilian Emirate and without further help Byzantine Sicily seemed lost. In 880 Taranto and much of Calabria fell to Imperial troops. Calabria had been Rome's pre-Aegyptus bread basket, so this was more than just a propaganda victory.\n\nBasil I died in 886, convinced that the future Leo VI the Wise was actually his illegitimate son by his mistress Eudokia Ingerina. The reign of Leo VI rendered poor results against the Arabs. The savage sack of Thessalonika in 904 by the Saracens of Crete was avenged when a Byzantine army and fleet smashed its way towards Tarsus and left the port, as important to the Arabs as Thessalonika was to Byzantium, in ashes. The only other notable events included the loss of Taormina in 902 and a six-month siege of Crete. The expedition departed when news of the Emperor's death reached Himerios, commander of the expedition, and then it was almost completely destroyed (Himerios escaped) not far from Constantinople.\n\nUntil this time, the Byzantine Empire had been concerned solely with survival and with holding on to what they already had. Numerous expeditions to Crete and Sicily were sadly reminiscent of the failures of Heraclius, even though the Arab conquest of Sicily did not go according to plan. After Leo's death in 912 the Empire became embroiled in problems with the regency of the seven-year-old Constantine VII and with invasions of Thrace by Simeon I of Bulgaria.\n\nThe situation changed however when the admiral Romanos Lekapenos assumed power as a co-emperor with three of his rather useless sons and Constantine VII, thus ending the internal problems with the government. Meanwhile, the Bulgar problem more or less solved itself with the death of Simeon in 927, so Byzantine general John Kourkouas was able to campaign aggressively against the Saracens from 923 to about 950. Armenia was consolidated within the Empire whilst Melitene, which had been a ruined emirate since the 9th century, was annexed at last. In 941 John Kourkouas was forced to turn his army north to fight off the invasion of Igor I of Kiev, but he was able to return to lay siege to Edessa—no Byzantine army had reached as far since the days of Heraclius. In the end the city was able to maintain its freedom when Al-Muttaqi agreed to give up a precious Christian relic: the \"Image of Edessa\".\n\nConstantine VII assumed full power in 945. Whilst his predecessor, Romanos I had managed to use diplomacy to keep peace in the West against the Bulgars, the East required the force of arms to achieve peace. Constantine VII turned to his most powerful ally, the Phocas family. Bardas Phokas the Elder had originally supported the claims of Constantine VII against those of Romanos I, and his position as \"strategos\" of the Armeniakon Theme made him the ideal candidate for war against the Caliphate. Nevertheless, Bardas was wounded in 953 without much success, though his son Nikephoros Phokas was able to inflict a serious defeat on the Caliphate: Adata fell in 957 whilst Nikephoros' young nephew, John Tzimiskes, captured Samosata in the Euphrates valley in 958.\n\nRomanos II launched the largest expedition by Byzantium since the days of Heraclius. A mammoth force of 50,000 men, 1,000 heavy transports, over 300 supply ships, and some 2,000 Greek Fire Ships under the brilliant Nikephoros Phokas set sail for Candia, the Islamic capital of Crete. After an eight-month siege and a bitter winter, Nikephoros sacked the city. News of the reconquest was met with great delight in Constantinople with a night-long service of thanksgiving was given by the Byzantines in the Hagia Sophia. \n\nNikephoros saw none of this gratitude, denied a triumph due to Romanus II's fear of feeding his ambitions. Instead, Nikephoros had to march rapidly to the East where Saif al-Daula of the Hamdanid dynasty, the Emir of Aleppo, had taken 30,000 men into Imperial territory, attempting to take advantage of the army's absence in Crete. The Emir was one of the most powerful independent rulers in the Islamic world—his domains included Damascus, Aleppo, Emesa, and Antioch. After a triumphant campaign, Saif was bogged down with overwhelming numbers of prisoners and loot. Leo Phokas, brother of Nikephoros, was unable to engage the Emir in an open battle with his small army. Instead, Saif found himself fleeing from battle with 300 cavalry and his army torn to pieces by a brilliantly planned ambush in the mountain passes of Asia Minor. With great satisfaction, Christian captives were substituted with recently acquired Muslims.\n\nWhen Nikephoros arrived and linked up with his brother, their army did no few wonders—a few weeks into 962, some 55 walled towns in Cilicia were returned to Imperial control. Not many months later, the Phokas brothers were beneath the walls of Aleppo. The Byzantines stormed the city on December 23 destroying all but the citadel that was zealously held by a few soldiers of the Emir. Nikephoros ordered a withdrawal; the Emir of Aleppo was badly beaten and would no longer pose a threat. The troops still holding out at the citadel were ignored with contempt. News of the death of Romanos II reached Nikephoros before he had left Cappadocia.\n\nRomanos II left behind Theophano, a beautiful empress widow, and four children, the eldest son being less than seven years. Like many regencies, that of Basil II proved chaotic and not without scheming of ambitious generals, such as Nikephoros, or internal fighting between Macedonian levies, Anatolians, and even the pious crowd of the Hagia Sophia. When Nikephoros emerged triumphant in 963, he once more began campaigning against his Saracen opponents in the East. \n\nIn 965 Tarsus fell after a series of repeated Byzantine campaigns in Cilicia, followed by Cyprus that same year. In 967 the defeated Saif of Mosul died of a stroke, depriving Nikephoros of his only serious challenge there. Said had not fully recovered from the sack of Aleppo, which became an imperial vassal shortly thereafter. In 969, the city of Antioch was retaken by the Byzantines, the first major city in Syria to be lost by the Arabs. Byzantine success was not total; in 964 another failed attempt was made to take Sicily by sending an army led by an illegitimate nephew of Nikephoros, Manuel Phokas. In 969, Nikephoros was murdered in his palace by John Tzimiskes, who took the throne for himself.\n\nIn 971 the new Fatimid Caliphate entered the scene. With newly found zeal, the Fatimids took Egypt, Palestine, and much of Syria from the powerless Abbasids, who were beginning to have their own Turkic problems. Having defeated their Islamic opponents, the Fatimids saw no reason to stop at Antioch and Aleppo, cities in the hands of the Christian Byzantines, making their conquest more important. A failed attack on Antioch in 971 was followed up by a Byzantine defeat outside of Amida. However, John I Tzimiskes would prove to be a greater foe than Nikephoros. With 10,000 Armenian troops and other levies he pushed south, relieving the Imperial possessions there and threatening Baghdad with an invasion. His reluctance to invade the Abbasid Capital, though poorly defended and demoralized, remains a mystery.\n\nAfter dealing with more Church matters, Tzimiskes returned in the Spring of 975. The Umayyad conquests had been halted after roughly a hundred years, but Tzimiskes cut the initial success of the Fatimid Caliphate even sooner: Syria, Lebanon, and much of Palestine fell to the imperial armies of Byzantium. It appears that Tzimiskes grew ill that year and the year after, halting his progress and sparing Jerusalem from a Christian victory.\n\nThe early reign of Basil II was distracted with civil wars across the Empire. After dealing with the invasions of Samuel of Bulgaria and the revolts of Bardas Phokas and Bardas Skleros, Basil turned his attention in 995 to Syria, where the Emir of Aleppo was in danger. As an imperial vassal the Emir pleaded to the Byzantines for military assistance, since the city was under siege by Abu Mansoor Nizar al-Aziz Billah. Basil II rushed back to Constantinople with 40,000 men. He gave his army 80,000 mules, one for each soldier and another for their equipment. The first 17,000 men arrived at Aleppo with great speed, and the hopelessly outnumbered Fatimid army withdrew. Basil II pursued it south, sacking Emesa and reaching as far as Tripoli. Basil returned to the Bulgar front with no further campaigning against the Saracen foe.\n\nWarfare between the two powers continued as the Byzantines supported an anti-Fatimid uprising in Tyre. In 998, the Byzantines under the successor of Bourtzes, Damian Dalassenos, launched an attack on Apamea, but the Fatimid general Jaush ibn al-Samsama defeated them in battle on 19 July 998. This new defeat brought Basil II once again to Syria in October 999. Basil spent three months in Syria, during which the Byzantines raided as far as Baalbek, took and garrisoned Shaizar, and captured three minor forts in its vicinity (Abu Qubais, Masyath, and 'Arqah), and sacked Rafaniya. Hims was not seriously threatened, but a month-long siege of Tripolis in December failed. However, as Basil's attention was diverted to developments in Armenia, he departed for Cilicia in January and dispatched another embassy to Cairo. In 1000 a ten-year truce was concluded between the two states. For the remainder of the reign of al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah (r. 996–1021), relations remained peaceful, as Hakim was more interested in internal affairs. Even the acknowledgement of Fatimid suzerainty by Lu'lu' of Aleppo in 1004 and the Fatimid-sponsored installment of Fatik Aziz al-Dawla as the city's emir in 1017 did not lead to a resumption of hostilities, especially since Lu'lu' continued to pay tribute to Byzantium, and Fatik quickly began acting as an independent ruler. Nevertheless, Hakim's persecution of Christians in his realm, and especially the destruction of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre at his orders in 1009, strained relations and would, along with Fatimid interference in Aleppo, provide the main focus of Fatimid-Byzantine diplomatic relations until the late 1030s.\n\nThe military force of the Arab world had been in decline since the 9th century, illustrated by losses in Mesopotamia and Syria, and by the slow conquest of Sicily. While the Byzantines attained minor successes against the Arabs, they masked a general decline of the Empire during the 11th century. The short and uneventful reign of Constantine VIII (1025-28) was followed by the incompetent Romanos III (1028-34). When Romanos marched his army to Aleppo, he was ambushed by the Arabs. Despite this failure, Romanos' general George Maniaces was able to recover the region and defend Edessa against Arab attack in 1032. Romanos III's successor (and possibly his murderer) Michael IV the Paphlagonian ordered an expedition against Sicily under George Maniaces. Initial Byzantine success led to the fall of Messina in 1038, followed by Syracuse in 1040, but the expedition was riddled with internal strife and was diverted to a disastrous course against the Normans in southern Italy.\n\nFollowing the loss of Sicily and most of southern Italy, the Byzantine Empire collapsed into a state of petty inter-governmental strife. Isaac I Komnenos took power in 1057, but his brief, two-year rule was too short for effective reform. The Fatimid and Abbasid Caliphate were already busy fighting the Seljuq dynasty. The Byzantines woke up to this threat under Romanos IV, co-emperor from 1068 to 1071. At the Battle of Manzikert in 1071, the Byzantines were defeated by Alp Arslan, head of the Great Seljuq Empire. This defeat, coupled with a civil war, brought most of the Asia Minor under the rule of the Seljuq Turks by 1091. \n\nIn 1081 Alexius I Comnenus seized power and re-initiated the Komnenian dynasty, initiating a period of restoration. Byzantine attention was focused primarily on the Normans and the Crusades during this period, and they would not fight the Arabs again until the end of the reign of John II Comnenus.\n\nJohn II Komnenos pursued a pro-Crusader policy, actively defending the Crusader states against the forces of Zengi. His army marched and laid siege to Shaizar, but the Principality of Antioch betrayed the Byzantines with inactiveness. John II therefore had little choice but to accept the Emir of Mosul's promise of vassalage and annual tribute to Byzantium. The other choice would have been risking a battle whilst leaving his siege equipment in the hands of the untrustworthy Crusaders. John could have beaten Zengi, but Zengi was not the only potential foe for Byzantium.\n\nJohn II died in 1143. The foolishness of the Principality of Antioch meant that Edessa fell, and now the great Patriarchate was on the front line. A failed siege on Damascus in the Second Crusade forced the Kingdom to turn south against Egypt. The new Byzantine Emperor, Manuel I Komnenos, enjoyed the idea of conquering Egypt, whose vast resources in grain and in native Christian manpower (from the Copts) would be no small reward, even if shared with the Crusaders. Alas, Manuel Komnenos worked too quickly for the Crusaders. After three months the Siege of Damietta in 1169 failed, although the Crusaders received a mixed diet of defeat (with several invasions failing) and some victories. The Crusaders were able to negotiate with the Fatimids to surrender the capital to a small Crusader garrison and pay annual tribute, but a Crusader breach of the treaty coupled with the rising power of the Muslims led to Saladin becoming master of Syria and Egypt. \n\nIn 1171, Amalric I of Jerusalem came to Constantinople in person, after Egypt had fallen to Saladin. In 1177, a fleet of 150 ships was sent by Manuel I to invade Egypt, but it returned home after appearing off Acre due to the refusal of Philip, Count of Flanders, and many important nobles of the Kingdom of Jerusalem to help.\n\nIn that year Manuel Komnenos suffered a defeat in the Battle of Myriokephalon against Kilij Arslan II of the Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm. Even so, the Byzantine Emperor continued to have an interest in Syria, planning to march his army south in a pilgrimage and show of strength against Saladin's might. Nonetheless, like many of Manuel's goals, this proved unrealistic, and he had to spend his final years working hard to restore the Eastern front against Iconium, which had deteriorated in the time wasted in fruitless Arab campaigns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40231078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40231078", "title": "Cariwest", "text": "Cariwest\n\nCariwest is an annual non-profit three-day Caribbean Arts Festival that takes place annually in the second weekend of August in the heart of downtown Edmonton, Alberta. Cariwest and its surrounding events attract more than 60,000 people each year. The festival gives the attendees a chance to enjoy Caribbean culture.\n\nCariwest began in 1984 as part of the Klondike Days Parade (now K-Days) as a way for Caribbean immigrants in Edmonton to celebrate and share their culture. It was organized by The Western Carnival Development Association (W.C.D.A.), a non-profit organization under the Societies Act, and this group has been organizing Cariwest Caribbean Arts Festival since then.\n\nCariwest employs the talents of musicians and dancers from all over the world to bring the melodies of Soca, Steel Pan, Reggae, Hip Hop, Calypso and Brass Bands to Edmontonians. There is also drama and street theatre. Cariwest provides an opportunity for those who are unfamiliar with Caribbean culture to experience the traditions. The festival is free and open to all who chose to attend; there is an entrance fee to some special events.\n\nThe \"mas\" in \"mas band\" is short for masquerade. Carnival mas bands originated in Trinidad and Tobago and are equivalent to the North American parade \"floats\". Every year, Cariwest hosts a parade in downtown Edmonton where the streets are filled with people in colourful costumes dancing to the beat of Caribbean music.\nAfter the parade, Edmonton's Sir Winston Churchill Square is transformed into a Caribbean Village.\nIn the village there is Caribbean food, goods, beer gardens, and live music on the Cariwest stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "36059896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36059896", "title": "Central Theatre (New York City)", "text": "Central Theatre (New York City)\n\nCentral Theatre was a Broadway theatre in New York City built in 1918. It was located at 1567 Broadway at 47th St., southwest corner, and seated approximately 1,100 patrons. The architect was Herbert J. Krapp. The theatre was built by the Shubert family on a site previously occupied by the Mathushek & Son piano factory.\n\nThe first production at the theatre was the play \"Forever After\", by Owen Davis, which opened in 1918. This moved to Playhouse Theatre for a long run. A musical, \"Somebody's Sweetheart\" (music by Antonio Bafunno; book and lyrics by Alonzo Price), was a success at the theatre in 1919–20. Oscar Hammerstein II made his debut as librettist in January 1920 with \"Always You\", which was followed by a successful revue by Arthur Wimperis, \"As You Were\". In July 1920, \"Poor Little Ritz Girl\" opened, with some songs by Rodgers and Hart and others by Sigmund Romberg and Alex Gerber. \"Afgar\" was another successful musical in 1920–21. \"The Gingham Girl\" was a hit musical in 1923 with music by Albert Von Tilzer.\n\nThe theatre introduced movies in 1921 and alternated the new medium with live theatre and American burlesque until 1957, although legitimate theatre was absent from 1934 to 1951. It changed its name to the Columbia Theatre in 1934, Gotham Theatre in 1944 and the Holiday Theatre in 1951. A successful revue, \"Bagels and Yox\" played in 1951. A revival of \"Abie's Irish Rose\" played in 1954. Legitimate theatre ended at the house in 1956. Under the names Odeon, then the Forum, and finally Movieland, the theatre played movies until 1988, when the Shuberts sold it. The building was converted into other uses. Its lobby became the Roxy Deli, and the auditorium became first a disco, Club USA, and, in 2005, a W Hotel.\n\n"}
{"id": "7365615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7365615", "title": "Cockpit-in-Court", "text": "Cockpit-in-Court\n\nThe Cockpit-in-Court (also known as the Royal Cockpit) was an early theatre in London, located at the rear of the Palace of Whitehall, next to St. James's Park, now the site of 70 Whitehall, in Westminster.\n\nThe structure was originally built by Henry VIII, after he had acquired Cardinal Wolsey's York Place to the north of the Palace of Westminster, following the Cardinal's downfall in 1529. It was one of a number of new pleasure buildings constructed for King Henry's entertainment, including a real tennis court, a bowling alley, and a tiltyard, and was used as an actual cockpit; that is, an area for staging cockfighting. Thus enlarged, the Palace of Whitehall became the main London residence of the Tudor and Stuart Kings of England, and the Palace of Westminster was relegated to ceremonial and administrative purposes only.\n\nThe Cockpit ceased to be used for cockfighting in Jacobean times, and was used instead as a private theatre and as chambers for members of the Royal Household. It was redesigned in 1629 for Charles I by Inigo Jones as a private venue for staging court masques. It was the second cockpit that Jones had redesigned as a theatre, the other being the Cockpit Theatre in Drury Lane, which was renovated after a fire in 1617.\n\nAfter the London theatre closure of the Interregnum, the Cockpit returned to use under Charles II, and was refitted in 1662. A new dressing room was added for female players, whose presence onstage was a recent theatrical innovation; its walls were decorated with green baize, one possible origin of the theatrical term \"green room\" for a dressing room. Samuel Pepys records attending several plays at the Cockpit in his diary.\nIn 1680, it was occupied by the Duke of Albemarle in his official capacity as Master of the Great Wardrobe, and later by Ralph, 1st Duke of Montagu in the same capacity.\n\nCharles II gave the Cockpit to Princess Anne, daughter of Charles's brother James, Duke of York, in 1683. Anne and her closest friend, Sarah, Lady Churchill were imprisoned here during the Glorious Revolution; both their husbands, Prince George of Denmark and John, Baron Churchill switched their allegiances from James II to William of Orange. Sarah and Anne escaped to Nottingham shortly afterwards. The Palace of Whitehall was almost completely destroyed by fire in 1698. One prominent structure to survive was the Banqueting House, also designed by Inigo in 1619; another, lesser, structure to survive, was the Cockpit. After the fire, William III moved his London residence to nearby St James's Palace, and the site was rebuilt to be used as government offices, and residential and commercial premises. The Cockpit was used to house government officials. It was first occupied by HM Treasury, whose offices elsewhere in the palace had been destroyed, until the Treasury moved to a new building on Horse Guards Road in 1734.\n\nWhen Anne became queen after the death of William in 1702, she gave the residence to her loyal friends John and Sarah, now Duke and Duchess of Marlborough. They vacated the residence during Anne's reign and it became the Treasury. After the Treasury moved, it was used in the late 18th century by the Foreign Office, after that government office had been founded at Cleveland Row, St James's but before it moved to Downing Street. Next, it was used by the Privy Council as a council chamber, for judicial purposes. It continued to be used by the Privy Council after a new chamber was built for them in 1827. The current building on the site, at 70 Whitehall, is used by the Cabinet Office. The reconstructed Cockpit Passage in 70 Whitehall runs along the edge of the old tennis courts and into Kent's Treasury, built on the site of the original cockpit lodgings. The minstrel's gallery on the ground floor is currently decorated with pictures of fighting cocks and a model of the old Whitehall palace. \n\nIt should not be confused with Cockpit Steps nearby in St James Park, which lead up from Birdcage Walk past the site of a royal cockpit in Old Queen Street.\n\nA replica theatre based on Inigo Jones' 1629 plan of the Cockpit-in-Court is planned as part of the Shakespeare North complex in Prescot, Merseyside. The historical Prescot Playhouse, the inspiration behind the project, existed between the mid-1590s and 1609. No plans of that theatre survive, however.\n\n"}
{"id": "3683286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3683286", "title": "Comic Art Convention", "text": "Comic Art Convention\n\nThe Comic Art Convention was an American comic book fan convention held annually New York City, New York, over Independence Day weekend from 1968 through 1983, except for 1977, when it was held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and 1978 to 1979, when editions of the convention were held in both New York and Philadelphia. The first large-scale comics convention, and one of the largest gatherings of its kind until the Comic-Con International in San Diego, California, it grew into a major trade and fan convention. It was founded by Phil Seuling, a Brooklyn, New York City, teacher, who later developed the concept of comic-book direct marketing, which led to the rise to the modern comic book store.\n\nThe New York Comic Art Convention's growth in popularity coincided with the increasing media attention on comics that had been building since the mid-1960s, feeding off the then novel notions of comics being a subject worthy of serious critical study and collectibility.\n\nCirca 1961, enterprising fans including Jerry Bails, Shel Dorf, Bernie Bubnis, and future Marvel Comics editor-in-chief Roy Thomas began following the pattern of the long-established science fiction fandom by publishing fanzines, corresponding with one another and with comic-book editors (most notably DC Comics' Julius Schwartz), and eventually arranging informal and later professional, commercial conventions. Among the first were the 1964 Tri-State Con (a.k.a. the New York Comicon) and that same year's precursor to the Detroit Triple Fan Fair (officially established in 1965).\n\nAs Seuling described his convention's genesis, \"In 1964, about a hundred people found themselves in a New York City union meeting hall, a large open room with wooden folding chairs, looking around at each other oddly, surprised, not really knowing what they were there for, a bit sheepish, waiting for whatever was going to take place to begin. ... It was the first comics convention ever [and t]hat one-day assembly ... grew step by step into an annual tradition in New York and then elsewhere.\" In 1965, the Academy of Comic-Book Fans and Collectors hosted a convention at New York's Broadway Central Hotel, continuing that tradition in 1966 and 1967. The so-called \"Academy Cons\" featured such industry professionals as Otto Binder, Bill Finger, Gardner Fox, Mort Weisinger, James Warren, Roy Thomas, Gil Kane, Stan Lee, Bill Everett, Carmine Infantino, and Julius Schwartz.\n\nAs Seuling told it, \"In 1968, I became involved in [staging] my first convention. The following year began the current series called the Comic Art Convention\". (The 1968 show, officially known as the International Convention of Comic Book Art, was co-produced with SCARP, the short-lived Society for Comic Art Research and Preservation, Inc.) Guests of honor at the 1968 show were Stan Lee and Burne Hogarth\n\nThe 1969 convention, the first official Comic Art Convention, was held Independence Day weekend at the Statler Hilton Hotel in New York City, and the guest of honor was Hal Foster. Admittance to the convention cost $3.50 for a three-day ticket, with daily passes at $1.50. Admittance was free with a hotel room rental, which cost $15-and-up per day.\n\nThe final three years of the 1961-1969 Alley Awards, sponsored by \"Alter Ego\" magazine and the Academy of Comic-Book Fans and Collectors, were presented at the Comic Art Convention. After the demise of the Alley, later years featured the Goethe Awards (later renamed the \"Comic Fan Art Awards\").\n\nIn 1973, Seuling persuaded Dr. Fredric Wertham, author of the industry-changing 1954 book \"Seduction of the Innocent\", to attend what would be Wertham's only panel with an audience of comics fans.\n\nThe 1974 show featured a panel on the role of women in comics, with Marie Severin, Flo Steinberg, Jean Thomas (sometime-collaborator with then-husband Roy Thomas), Linda Fite (writer of \"The Claws of the Cat\"), and fan representative Irene Vartanoff.\n\nBy 1984, as his comic-book distribution business occupied more time, and as other comics conventions, most notably in San Diego and Chicago, became larger, more prominent, and more commercial- rather than fan-driven, Seuling segued the Independence Day-centered Comic Art Convention into the smaller Manhattan Con, which took place in mid-June. Seuling died unexpectedly in August 1984, and the Comic Art Convention/Manhattan Con died with him.\n\nThe Comic Art Conventions provided the primary nexus for fans and the largely New York City-based industry during the Silver Age and the Bronze Age of comic books. As well, many of the Golden Age creators were still alive and in attendance at panels and for interviews, which helped lay the groundwork for the medium's historical scholarship.\n\nThe reputation of the Convention spread throughout fandom via an annual write-up published in \"The Buyer's Guide to Comics Fandom\" by columnist Murray Bishoff. Besides reporting on convention events, Bishoff also provided fans around the country with a benchmark market report by surveying attending dealers regarding what was selling and whether prices realized were above or below those quoted in the de facto standard, \"The Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide\".\n\nWill Eisner, creator of the Spirit in 1940, credited the 1971 Comic Art Con for his return to comics. In a 1983 interview with Seuling, he said, \"I came back into the field because of you. I remember you calling me in New London, [Connecticut], where I was sitting there as chairman of the board of Croft Publishing Co. My secretary said, 'There's a Mr. Seuling on the phone and he's talking about a comics convention. What is that?' She said, 'I didn't know you were a cartoonist, Mr. Eisner.' 'Oh, yes,' I said, 'secretly; I'm a closet cartoonist.' I came down and was stunned at the existence of the whole world. ... That was a world that I had left, and I found it very exciting, very stimulating\".\n\nEisner later elaborated about meeting underground comics creators and publishers, including Denis Kitchen\n\nFollowing Seuling's death in 1984 and continuing until 1988, Creation Entertainment continued producing large annual conventions in New York City, usually taking place over the weekend following Thanksgiving (Creation had begun hosting New York shows in 1971, and sometimes put on as many as a half-dozen New York City shows per year). From 1993–1995, promoter Fred Greenberg hosted two Great Eastern Conventions annually at venues including the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and the New York Coliseum. Other companies, including Dynamic Forces, held New York City conventions but all were on a smaller scale than the Seuling shows. Changes in the industry, popular culture, and the resurgent city itself since the troubled 1960s and '70s made large-scale comic-book conventions difficult to hold profitably. Jonah Weiland of ComicBookResources.com also noted that \"...dealing with the various convention unions made it difficult for most groups to get a show off the ground.\"\n\nIn 1996, Greenberg, at a very late point, cancelled what had been advertised as a larger-than-usual Great Eastern Conventions show, which the fan press had suggested might herald a successor to the Comic Art Con. As a substitute event, promoter Michael Carbonaro and others on the spur of the moment mounted the first Big Apple Convention in the basement of Manhattan's Church of St. Paul the Apostle. These small shows nonetheless attracted many comics creators and pop-culture figures, and by 2000 the convention had moved to the Metropolitan Pavilion on West 18th Street in Manhattan, and by the mid-2000s were taking place at the Penn Plaza Pavilion at the Hotel Pennsylvania — the same location of the original Comic Art Conventions.\n\nIn 2002, the first MoCCA Art Festival, focused on alternative comics and the small press, was held at New York City’s Puck Building; it has been held annually since. In 2006, the first New York Comic Con was held in the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center; it also has been held annually since.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40380361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40380361", "title": "Cruce a Nado Internacional", "text": "Cruce a Nado Internacional\n\nCruce a Nado Internacional is a yearly international swimming competition that takes place at Bahía de Ponce in Ponce, Puerto Rico. It is the oldest open water swimming event in the Caribbean. The event generally occurs on the first Sunday of September, to coincide with the Sunday of Labor Day Weekend every year. The event is sponsored by Club Cruce a Nado, Inc. Some 100 athletes compete. The event started in 1980.\n\nThe competition started in 1980 under the sponsorship of the Ponce Municipal Government. It has gained popularity every year with a greater number of athletes participating from an equally greater number of countries. In 2008, 16 countries were represented. The competition abides by the rules of the \"Federación Internacional de Natación (FINA)\" (International Swimming Federation) and the approval of the \"Federación Puertorriqueña de Natación (FPN)\" (Puerto Rican Swimming Federation). Countries that have competed in the past include Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panamá, Puerto Rico, United States, U.S. Virgin Islands and Venezuela. The competition originally included local Puerto Rican swimmers only, but after two years, it was opened to foreign nationals as well.\n\nIt is a common practice to dedicate the event to athletes who have made outstanding accomplishments in the sport. On September 4, 2011, the 30th annual competition was dedicated to Orlando Fernández, a.k.a. \"The Puerto Rican Aquaman\", the first Puerto Rican to swim across the Strait of Gibraltar, in recognition of his accomplishments.\n\nThe competition consists of crossing the Bay of Ponce from Cardona Island, which is situated about 1.5 nautical miles from mainland's Puerto Rico southern shores in Ponce, to the southern shore of Puerto Rico at Ponce. The entire event starts on the Thursday before the Sunday of the competitions with music, shows and traditional foods. The Ponce Municipal Government contributes $20,000 to the costs of celebrating the event.\n\nAthletes are taken by boat to Isla Cardona which is located just 1.5 nautical miles from the mainland. At the sound of the whistle, athletes then swim the 2,800 meters - 1.5 nautical miles - across the bay towards sector \"El Malecón\" in Playa de Ponce. Athletes arrive at Parque Enrique González in Playa de Ponce, which is located across from the U.S. Customs House and has an area with steps that lead down to the bay waters. The first athlete to arrive is the winner. First place, second place, and third place awards are given. The Mayor of Ponce awaits athletes at El Malecon's finish line to bestow medals, prizes and other awards on the winners.\n\nBeyond the two main competitive divisions based on gender (Men's and Women's), the 2009 event consisted of two categories: \"\"Categoria Abierta\", open to those between ages 13 and 25; and \"Categoria Masters\"\", open to those over 26 years of age. The 2011 edition also had the \"Over 56+\" category for those 56 years old and older.\n\nAs an added bonus and incentive to the first Puerto Rican who makes it to the finish line, in 2008 the municipality added the \"Copa Héctor Pérez\" (Spanish for Héctor Pérez Cup), which is given to the athlete with those qualities and merit. In 2008, it went to Nathaniel Ramos. Héctor Pérez Torres, born in Playa de Ponce, is a sportsman and community leader, and has been organizing the Cruce a Nado Internacional event.\n\nAs reported by Panama's \"La Prensa\", here is the list of winners.\n\nAs reported by the \"La Regata: el Periodico Nautico de Puerto Rico\" newsweekly, here is the list of winners.\n\nAs reported by \"Agencia Venezolana de Noticias, Torre Lincoln, Piso 7, Sabana Grande, Caracas, Venezuela\", here are the 2010 Men's and Women's winners.\n\nAs reported by \"El Sur a la Vista\", here are the 2011 winners in each of the three divisions.\n\nAs reported by \"La Perla del Sur\", here are the 2012 winners.\n\nAs reported by \"La Perla del Sur\" newsweekly, here is the list of winners.\n\nAs reported by \"La Perla del Sur\" newsweekly, here is the list of winners.\n\nAs reported by \"DeportivAPP\" and \"Agenda56\" here is the list of winners.\n\nAs reported by \"DeportivAPP\", here is the list of winners.\n\nAs reported by \"1968: Noticias de Natación de Venezuela y el Mundo\", here is the list of winners.\n\nThe 38th Competition is scheduled to take place on 2 September 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48551035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48551035", "title": "Eckwersheim derailment", "text": "Eckwersheim derailment\n\nOn 14 November 2015, a TGV train derailed in Eckwersheim, Alsace, France, while performing commissioning trials on the second phase of the LGV Est high-speed rail line, which was scheduled to open for commercial service five months later. The derailment resulted in 11 deaths among those aboard, while the 42 others aboard the train were injured. It was the first fatal derailment in the history of the TGV and the third derailment since the TGV entered commercial service in 1981.\n\nThe test train was traveling eastbound on the southern track when it entered a curve at —which was above its assigned speed—causing the rear bogie of the lead power car to derail to the left (outside of curve) due to centrifugal forces. The lead power car separated from the rest of the train, and the rear of the lead power car struck the concrete parapet on the abutment to a bridge over the Marne–Rhine Canal. The power car slid along the left parapet of the bridge and overturned, sliding down the embankment and coming to a rest beyond the end of the bridge. Cars 2–7 derailed before the bridge and travelled off the embankment with enough speed to overshoot the canal and come to rest beyond the beginning of the bridge. Cars 8–9 came to rest on the east bank of the canal and the rear power car ended up partially submerged in the canal. According to investigators, late braking, which led to the train entering the curve at excessive speed, was the immediate cause of the accident. Criminal and technical investigations are . French national rail operator SNCF suspended test trials at high speeds until the lessons learned from the investigation were integrated into testing process. The scheduled opening of the second phase of the LGV Est for commercial service was delayed three months, from 3 April 2016 to 3 July 2016.\n\nThe LGV Est européenne (often shortened to \"LGV Est\") is a high-speed rail line connecting Paris and Strasbourg. Development has been divided into two phases. The first phase, from Vaires-sur-Marne near Paris, to Baudrecourt opened on 10 June 2007. Construction on the second phase, from Baudrecourt to Vendenheim, near Strasbourg, began in 2010. The final weld of rails on the second phase occurred in March 2015, marking the completion of the line, although some work remained. At the time of the derailment, the line was scheduled to open for commercial service on 3 April 2016, following commissioning trials and training for operators.\n\nThe scheduled tests for the line consisted of four phases:\n\nA specialized test train, Dasye set 744 in a commemorative livery, arrived to conduct the fourth phase of testing, which began on 28 September 2015. During this phase, more than 200 test runs would be performed on the line. The test runs would test ride smoothness, performance of the catenary, radio communications, and the signalling system. During some runs, the test train would operate at 10% above the planned operational speeds for the line when it enters service. Some automated safety systems were disabled to allow the test train to operate beyond normal operating conditions. Orientation training for operators was scheduled to take place between January and March 2016 prior to the start of commercial service on the line, which was scheduled for 3 April 2016 at the time of the accident. In January 2016, SNCF announced that the opening of the line would be delayed until to 3 July 2016.\n\nTests scheduled for 11 and 14 November were to traverse each of the two tracks, in both directions of travel and at a test speed 10% above the speed limit when the line is in commercial service. On the afternoon of 14 November, the test train was scheduled to depart Meuse TGV Station at 14:18 and arrive at Strasbourg Station at 15:17. At 14:26, authorization was given to begin the test and the test train left Meuse TGV Station two minutes later. During this test, the test train traveled eastbound on Track 2, the southern track on the east-west oriented LGV Est, in the direction opposite normal operation (Strasbourg towards Paris). The Meuse-Strasbourg run was the last series of tests on the line during the fourth phase of tests.\n\nThe train reached a maximum speed of on sections where the speed limit will be . As the train approached the flying junction in the commune of Vendenheim, it should have slowed from before reaching Kilometer Point (KP) 403.809, where the speed limit for commercial service will be . As the track begins a long, right-hand curve into the flying junction, it is raised on an embankment, approximately high, and crosses a bridge over the Marne–Rhine Canal. The flying junction marks the end of the LGV Est line, after which the train was to continue on an existing, non-high-speed rail line leading to Strasbourg Station.\n\nAs the train entered the right-hand curve into the flying junction, the rear bogie of the lead power car derailed to the left (outside of the curve) at 15:04:42 at approximately KP 404.003. Violent transverse movements at the rear of the lead power car caused it to separate from the rest of the train. The rear of the lead power car struck a concrete parapet (KP 404.209) on the leading abutment to the bridge over the Marne–Rhine Canal. The impact broke apart the lead power car and caused oil to leak from the lead power car's transformer, which ignited and was spread across the bridge and canal banks. The rear bogie of the lead power car remained where it impacted the concrete parapet. The transformer of the lead power car landed on the east bank of the canal. The remainder of the lead power car slid along the left parapet of the bridge. At the end of the bridge, it overturned, slid down the embankment and came to a rest beyond the end of the bridge.\n\nCars 2–7 derailed before the bridge and traveled off the embankment with enough speed to overshoot the canal and come to rest beyond the beginning of the bridge. Cars 8–9 came to rest on the east bank of the canal and the rear power car ended up partially submerged in the canal.\n\nAt 15:05, the train disappeared from the approach zone for the Vendenheim junction on the display being monitored by staff at the signalling control center. At 15:10, the control center initiated emergency procedures for the loss of a train and closed the non-high-speed rail lines that pass through the Vendenheim junction. At approximately the same time, one of the companies involved in the construction of the line received a call from an employee aboard the train, who informed them of the derailment. Shortly before 17:45, the local mass casualty plan was enacted. Emergency medical and fire rescue services along with 100 gendarmes responded to the incident. At its height, 104 engines from three \"départments\" responded to the incident—65 from Bas-Rhin and 39 from Moselle and Haut-Rhin. Those with minor injuries were treated by responders from the French Red Cross, which operated at the school in Eckwersheim. The French Minister of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy, Ségolène Royal, and the Secretary of State for Transport, Alain Vidalies, travelled to the site shortly after the crash. The president of SNCF, Guillaume Pepy, and the president of SNCF Réseau, Jacques Rapoport, also travelled to the site in the hours after the accident.\n\nThe train was carrying 53 persons, including four children, ages 10–15, who were not officially authorized to be aboard. The derailment resulted in 11 deaths, which included four employees of SNCF, five technicians from the engineering firm responsible for the tests, and two guests. Ten died at the crash scene, one died the following evening, and one seriously injured person remained in hospital as of February 2016. Among the dead was the director of the LGV Est line for SNCF Réseau, which owns France's railroad infrastructure. Despite breaking in two pieces and the severe impact with the parapet, there were no deaths among the seven people in the front cab. The second-to-last car impacted the canal wall and was the car with the highest death toll. It was the first fatal derailment in the history of the TGV and the third derailment since the TGV entered commercial service in 1981.\n\nThree investigations have been opened. The French Land Transport Accident Investigation Bureau (BEA-TT, \"\"), which is responsible for investigating rail accidents in France, opened a non-judicial technical investigation. The BEA-TT published its final report in March 2017.\n\nA criminal investigation and internal investigation by SNCF have also been opened. Among the subjects which SNCF will investigate is whether there was a dereliction of duties by an SNCF employee that resulted in the unauthorized children riding on the train. The president of SNCF has exclaimed: \"This is not a practice that SNCF recognizes. A test train is a test train.\" The derailment occurred the day after the November 2015 Paris attacks, initially sparking fears that the derailment was the work of terrorists.\n\nOn 19 November, SNCF announced the initial findings of their investigation. The train's event recorder indicated that the train entered the curve at and was travelling at at the moment it derailed, which investigators have determined to be a result of centrifugal forces. The speed at the moment of derailment was above the train's assigned operating speed on the curve. According to the SNCF, the \"immediate cause\" of the accident was \"a late braking sequence\"; the braking should have begun at least or 12 seconds earlier. The investigation has found no fault for the accident in the infrastructure, train, or member of the technical team. There were seven people in the driving cab at the time of the accident, all of whom survived. Investigators have suggested that this may have been a factor in the late braking. SNCF will begin disciplinary proceedings and take punitive measures against employees responsible for, among other things, the \"reckless presence\" of children on the test train, presence of seven people in the cab, the lack of rigor in creating lists of those onboard and controlling access to the train, and \"without doubt\" the human errors in the cab.\n\nSNCF held a minute of silence for the victims during the course of operations on Monday, 16 November. The following day, a memorial service was held in the church in Mundolsheim, which was attended by SNCF President Guillaume Pepy. SNCF suspended all test trials at high speeds until the lessons learned from the investigation can be integrated into testing processes. A memorial garden and stone marker were dedicated at the site on the first anniversary of the accident.\n\nThe scheduled opening of the second phase of the LGV Est for commercial service was delayed by three months, from 3 April to 3 July 2016. Until 11 December 2016, a short segment of the line around the site of the derailment was limited to a single track while repairs on the damaged track were completed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42707090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42707090", "title": "Ehmej Festival", "text": "Ehmej Festival\n\nEhmej Festival is a music festival held annually (since 2011) in Ehmej, a municipality located about 57 km north of Beirut, in the Jbeil District. The festival's aims are to boost tourism, promote the Lebanese culture, and spread music and art from Jbeil to the rest of the Lebanese area.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10488189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10488189", "title": "Every 15 Minutes", "text": "Every 15 Minutes\n\nEvery 15 Minutes is a two-day program focusing on high school juniors and seniors, which challenges them to think about drinking, driving, personal safety, and the responsibility of making mature decisions. Along with alcohol-related crashes, it focuses on the impact that their decisions would have on family and friends.\n\nThe Every 15 Minutes program originated in Canada and was soon adopted in the United States first in Spokane, Washington. The site of the first Every 15 Minutes program in California was in Chico which was presented by the Chico Police Department in 1995.\n\nThe Every 15 Minutes program starts months in advance of the actual presentation, in fact the very first program at a school will take about one-year to plan and prepare. This includes all of the involved agencies, the police, fire department, paramedics, hospital, court, lawyers, judge, jail facilities, coroner/funeral home, students, parents and school administrators. Student participants are selected to cover the full spectrum of the student body, thus, the audience will be able to relate to at least one of the participants on the crash day.\n\nDue in large part to major grants and guidance by the Highway Patrol, the program has made its way to even more students' hometowns. In recent years, the California Highway Patrol has continued to fine-tune the Every 15 Minutes program, which has always been over two-days - day one being the crash, with day two as the assembly, featuring speakers ranging from the student participants and their parents to motivational speakers, relatives who have lost loved ones in drunk-driving crashes (there are no drunk-driving \"accidents\"), medical personnel, lawyers and law enforcement officials.\n\nIn southern California the program has also been modified by a civilian coordinator who has taken the audience away from watching on the sidewalk to sitting in bleachers, allowing for better viewing; eliminating the grim reaper (often viewed by students as unreal); and adding a texting element to the sober driver. This element brings the program added reality, as current figures indicate more teens are being killed in text-related crashes than in drunk-driving crashes. However, the grants are dedicated to drunk-driving and would be eliminated if too much emphasis was placed on texting. To still maintain the drinking emphasis, it is mentioned that the sober driver could have lessened the severity of injuries or death had they been concentrating on the road and not on the phone.\n\nSince its inception, technology has improved, giving a rise to the impact of the program and the gravity of the issue of drunk driving. During the event, new technology has allowed for a quick turn around of videography, allowing a comprehensive video of the cause and effect relationship between drunken driving and police involvement, family burden and community loss to be played at the second day's assembly. While student videographers sometimes take on this job, it is more common for professional crews to do the work. More recently, there has been a revival of student work, as schools either ask for one or two of their students to apprentice with the professionals, or students create a \"making-of\" film, shadowing the entire E15 process.\n\nRecently the program has been extended. Kids are made to play the actual roles within the accident, especially in California. Cars are crashed, students bloody and handcuffed, and parents are told their children have been killed. Some protest this, saying it is traumatizing.\n\nStudies that have tracked students before and after the Every 15 Minutes program have shown that the program may have a favorable short-term effect on students' stated attitudes but no effect on actual behavior. This has led to charges that the Every 15 Minutes program is similar to the controversial DARE anti-drug program in that it produces the appearance of addressing the problem but does not produce the desired change in behavior. It has been long known that these types of approaches (i.e. scare tactics, dramatizations) that attempt to increase awareness or improve knowledge are ineffective. . \n\nQuestions have also been raised about the basic premise of the program, that one person dies every 15 minutes in an alcohol-related crash. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reports that in 1995, the first year the program was presented, the rate was actually one death every 30.4 minutes in the United States. This was using the NHTSA's very broad definition of \"alcohol-related\" wherein the crash was defined as \"alcohol-related\" if any person involved had a blood alcohol level of 0.01% or higher. The nationally recognized DUI level of presumption in the United States is 0.08%. The rate of alcohol-related fatalities has gradually declined and was one death every 40.4 minutes in 2007, one death every 45 minutes in 2008, and one death every 56.5 minutes in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17266580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17266580", "title": "Figment (arts event)", "text": "Figment (arts event)\n\nFIGMENT is an annual participatory arts event that began on Governors Island in New York Harbor, United States in 2007, and has since spread to a number of other cities. The mission of FIGMENT is to provide a forum for community-based participatory art and experience. FIGMENT strives to build community among artists and participants, to foster the participatory arts in New York City, and to demonstrate a vision for the future of Governors Island as an international arts destination. FIGMENT is a community-based event organized and run by volunteers.\n\nThe event draws its name from New York’s artistic heritage. Andy Warhol once commented that he would like his tombstone to have only one word on it: “Figment.” Warhol never got his wish; he has a traditional grave marker.\n\nFIGMENT is based on 11 principles including participation, inclusion, decommodification and leave no trace.\n\nArt projects are solicited for FIGMENT through a curatorial process, based on artistic merit, ambitiousness, and interactivity. FIGMENT focuses on art projects that demonstrate an ability to transform their environment and the perception of participants.\n\nFIGMENT is produced by Figment Project, Inc., a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization registered in New York State. This not-for-profit organization was originally formed as Action Arts League, Inc., in 2006. The Board of Directors decided to rename the organization Figment Project, Inc., in December 2010, and the name change was acknowledged by the New York State Department of State on February 9, 2011.\n\nThe event is currently supported by individual donations and by grants. FIGMENT does not accept any corporate sponsorships.\n\nFIGMENT was launched in 2007 as a one-day event on July 8. FIGMENT attracted over 60 participatory arts projects, and hosted over 2,600 participants.\n\nIn 2008, FIGMENT was a three-day event on June 27–29. Nearly 10,000 people attended the event, and attendance records were set for Governors Island for the most people ever on the island on a Friday (1,486), on a Saturday (5,305), and on a Sunday (3,174), and over a single weekend (9,965).\n\nTwo special projects include the City of Dreams Minigolf course (open from June 27 to October 12, 2008), and the Emergence exhibition (open from May 31 to July 26, 2008). Both of these special projects were funded by the Black Rock Arts Foundation. It is estimated that approximately 50,000 visitors to the island engaged with these exhibitions over the summer of 2008.\n\nFIGMENT 2009 took place on June 12–14 on Governors Island. In addition to the main festival, FIGMENT expanded the City of Dreams Minigolf Course to 18 holes, and added a season-long exhibition of interactive sculpture. Both of these projects together are called the \"City of Dreams.\"\n\nFIGMENT 2009 was attended by 13,331 people, including 1,139 participants on Friday, June 12; 5,488 participants on Saturday, June 13; and 6,704 participants on Sunday, June 14.\n\nFIGMENT received six grants in 2009, including The Fund for Creative Communities, supported by the New York State Council on the Arts, and the Manhattan Community Arts Fund, supported by the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs. Both funds are administered by the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council. In addition, four large-scale sculptures in the City of Dreams season-long sculpture installation have received the 2009 Oscar M. Ruebhausen Commission from the Greenwall Foundation.\n\nIn 2010, FIGMENT added an event in Boston to its event in New York. FIGMENT Boston took place on June 5, 2010, along the Charles River in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in partnership with the Cambridge Arts Council, with approximately 10,000 participants who engaged with nearly 100 arts projects. FIGMENT New York took place on June 11–13, 2010, on Governors Island, with a total of 23,665 participants: 4,103 on Friday, 9,856 on Saturday, and 9,706 on Sunday.\n\nFIGMENT created another summer-long minigolf course and sculpture garden in 2010 on Governors Island, and added an architectural competition to design and build a pavilion on the island as a center for arts activity. The City of Dreams Pavilion Design Competition was being jointly hosted by FIGMENT, the Emerging New York Architects (ENYA) committee of the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects (AIA), and the Structural Engineers Association of New York (SEAoNY). The competition received over 50 entries, and a jury of architects, journalists, and engineers selected Ann Ha and Behrang Behin's Living Pavilion as the winner of the competition. The Living Pavilion was built on the Parade Grounds on Governors Island, and opened in time for FIGMENT on June 11. The Living Pavilion, Minigolf Course, and Sculpture Garden were open on the island through October 3, 2010, and were visited by an estimated 200,000 visitors to the island.\n\nIn 2011, FIGMENT added events in Jackson, Mississippi and Detroit, Michigan, for a total of four events. The season began with the event in Jackson on May 21–22. Then next was Boston (relocated from Memorial Drive to the Rose Kennedy Greenway) on June 4–5. Then FIGMENT NYC on Governors Island on June 10–12. And finally FIGMENT Detroit on Belle Isle on August 6.\n\n2011 brought much more interest and collaboration from public officials. Mayor Harvey Johnson visited FIGMENT Jackson on May 21. Mayor Thomas Menino of Boston issued a proclamation naming June 4 as \"FIGMENT Boston Day\" in the City of Boston. And New York State Senator Daniel Squadron visited FIGMENT NYC on June 10 and gave a press conference with Trust for Governors Island President Leslie Koch and FIGMENT Executive Producer David Koren.\n\nFIGMENT NYC was named the Best Art Festival in New York by the Village Voice.\n\nFIGMENT's brand received a design award in late 2011 by the AIGA.\n\nIn late 2011, FIGMENT received a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts for the first time ever, for its 2012 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13383284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13383284", "title": "Fritz Losigkeit", "text": "Fritz Losigkeit\n\nFritz Losigkeit (17 November 1913 – 14 January 1994) was a German pilot and air force commander during World War II. A flying ace, he was a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. He commander the fighter wings Jagdgeschwader 51 and Jagdgeschwader 77.\n\nAfter the war, Losigkeit was a secretary in the administration of the Free Democratic Party (FDP) in 1946. From 1946 until 1978, he was in private business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19950409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19950409", "title": "Gorgeous Guy", "text": "Gorgeous Guy\n\nThe Gorgeous Guy was the name given to a man whose photo appeared on an internet message board, with various posts describing his life. The photo was of Dan Baca, and it was later revealed to be an elaborate hoax, set up by Baca himself.\n\nIn May 2001, Dan Baca, a 29-year-old computer network engineer began to notice people were staring at him as he waited for his bus. Some people would start conversations with him, and then some people started taking photos of him. They appeared to be familiar with his routine, what clothes he wore, and what color his bag was. He was eventually told that his photo had been posted to an internet message board, \"Craigslist\", on May 11, and there were numerous comments written about him. The thread, entitled \"Gorgeous Guy @ 4th and Market at the MUNI/Amtrak Bus Stop (Mon-Fri)\" became the most popular in the \"missed connections\" section. The picture's caption read \"Gorgeous Guy\", and the anonymous poster wanted to know who he was, and if they could meet up with him. Various posts that followed discussed various aspects of Baca's personal life, such as his facial features, his marital status, and his sexuality. They also discussed his schedule and who was going to date him. Baca eventually posted a message, asking people to stop talking to him and about him, but doing so caused more problems, and Baca had to resort to other forms of transport to get to work.\n\nThe story came to the media's attention when David Cassel, a freelance journalist was tipped off about the story by Mat Honan, a freelance writer from San Francisco. Cassel published an article in the \"San Francisco Bay Guardian\" on May 30, keeping Baca's name confidential. Following this, \"CNN\" and \"USA Today\" both published articles, including his real name. Various other news outlets also contacted him. Despite Baca's original plea for privacy, he intended to take the chance to make the most of his fame; he expressed interest in becoming a model, actor, or becoming involved in charity work.\n\nOn July 11, 2001, Baca revealed that the whole thing was a hoax. He was said to have made over 50 posts using various email addresses on \"Craigslist\", pretending to be other people. He also explained that he made up most of the stories about people recognizing him in the street. Baca apparently had no motive for the hoax, claiming he was just \"playing around\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5809131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5809131", "title": "Human hunting", "text": "Human hunting\n\nHuman hunting refers to humans being hunted and killed for other persons' revenge, pleasure, entertainment, sports or sustenance. There have been historical incidents of the practice being carried out during times of social upheaval. A 2016 report by Daniel Wright, senior lecturer in tourism at the University of Central Lancashire, predicts the hunting of the poor will become a hobby of the superrich in a future plagued by economic and ecological disasters and overpopulation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35029857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35029857", "title": "Kawanku (magazine)", "text": "Kawanku (magazine)\n\nKawanku is an Indonesian weekly magazine for teenage girls. It was first published in 1970 and focuses on fashion and celebrities and offers information about the latest entertainment and feature stories on current issues and events. The magazine is published by Kompas Gramedia. Its headquarters is in Jakarta.\n\n"}
{"id": "43437009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43437009", "title": "Lavender Doe", "text": "Lavender Doe\n\nLavender Doe is the nickname given to an unidentified murder victim whose body was found in 2006 in Kilgore, Texas. Efforts to identify the remains thus far proven fruitless. Investigators hope that a new reconstruction of the victim may uncover more leads. In August 2018, Joseph Wayne Burnette was indicted for her murder, following a confession, stating her name may have been \"Ashley.\"\n\nThe body of a white or possibly Middle Eastern female between 17 and 25 years old was found on October 29, 2006. in Kilgore, Texas, lying face-down on a pile of burning brush. The body was severely burnt, but clothing including a purple sweater and a pair of jeans were recovered. A total of forty dollars was found in her pockets. It is believed she died between 8:15 and 10:00 PM on the previous day.\n\nTwo of her deciduous teeth were still present, which may be of help in determining her identity. She weighed approximately 100 to 120 pounds, was between 5 feet 3 inches and 5 feet 5 inches tall and was most likely from a middle-class household. The victim's hair color was likely reddish or blonde with blonde or red highlights, but may have been entirely strawberry-blonde or light brown.\n\nInitially, she was believed to have been as young as 13, and race and sex were considered unknown until further study. Due to the recovery of an empty gasoline can from the scene and the nature of her death, the case is being investigated as a homicide. Semen was found on forensic examination, indicating that she may have been a victim of rape prior to death.\n\nAccording to residents of the area, there were many \"suspicious people\" in the vicinity of the oil field where the body was discovered and some referred to the location as a \"killing ground.\"\nBecause of the condition of the body, the face was reconstructed three times—with clay, in a sketch by a forensic artist, and in January 2014, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children released a digital composite image produced from a CT scan after the remains were exhumed on October 2, 2013. \n\nDespite comparison with the dental records and DNA of a large number of missing persons, the search for her identity has remained fruitless. After the release of the most recent reconstruction, the mother of missing 23-year-old Brandi Wells, who disappeared after going out to a nightclub in Longview, Texas in August 2006, contacted authorities, feeling the composite strongly resembled her daughter. DNA testing eliminated the possibility that the unidentified body could be Brandi Wells. \n\nIn 2007, a suspect in the case emerged, Joseph Wayne Burnett, 36, who is a convicted sex offender and was imprisoned for another crime at the time police announced suspicion he was the murderer. Burnett previously denied involvement in the murder, however, on August 27, 2018 he confessed to the killing of Lavender Doe, along with the 2018 murder of Felisha Pearson. Burnette claimed he convinced the victim to enter his vehicle when she was selling items from a magazine. \n\nAs of 2018, the DNA Doe Project has taken on the case, and is currently trying to uncover Lavender Doe's identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "33321737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33321737", "title": "Logan Elm", "text": "Logan Elm\n\nThe Logan Elm that stood near Circleville in Pickaway County, Ohio, was one of the largest American elm trees (\"Ulmus americana\") recorded. The tree had a trunk circumference of and a crown spread of . Weakened by Dutch Elm Disease, the tree died from storm damage in 1964. The Logan Elm State Memorial commemorates the site and preserves various associated markers and monuments.\n\nAccording to tradition, Chief Logan of the Mingo tribe delivered a passionate speech at a peace-treaty meeting under this elm in 1774, said to be the most famous speech ever given by a Native American, now known as \"Logan's Lament\": I appeal to any white man to say, if ever he entered Logan's cabin hungry, and he gave him not meat; if ever he came cold and naked, and he clothed him not. During the course of the last long and bloody war, Logan remained idle in his cabin, an advocate for peace. Such was my love for the whites, that my countrymen pointed as they passed, and said, Logan is the friend of the white men. I have even thought to live with you but for the injuries of one man. Col. Cresap, the last spring, in cold blood, and unprovoked, murdered all the relations of Logan, not sparing even my women and children. There runs not a drop of my blood in the veins of any living creature. This has called on me for revenge. I have sought it: I have killed many: I have fully glutted my vengeance. For my country, I rejoice at the beams of peace. But do not harbour a thought that mine is the joy of fear. Logan never felt fear. He will not turn on his heel to save his life. Who is there to mourn for Logan? Not one.\nThe village of Logan Elm and the Logan Elm High School are located nearby.\n\nThe 29th annual celebration of the Logan Elm was held on October 5, 1941. Among those in attendance was poet, Frank Grubbs, who recited the poem that he wrote for the occasion. He is referred to in the article as the poet laureate of Ohio.\n\nTHE LOGAN ELM\n\nIn stately majesty it stands,\n\nIts sturdy branches spread\n\nAs if to cloister in its folds\n\nThe living and the dead;\n\nTime and the ruthless hands of men\n\nIt mates have known,\n\nUntil it rears its hoary head\n\nIn solitude alone.\n\nO, ancient elm! When Logan stood\n\nBeneath thy kindly shade,\n\nHe little dreamed his eloquence\n\nFor him a shrine had made;\n\nTho’ many moons have waxed and waned\n\nSince he, his story told,\n\nThe great tree flourishes as green\n\nAs in the days of old.\n\n‘Tis said when Indian Summer blooms\n\nAre tinting hills and downs,\n\nThe spirit of the warrior comes\n\nBack from his “hunting grounds”\n\nTo smoke once more “the pipe of peace”\n\nBeneath this ancient tree,\n\nThat stands a land-mark and a shrine\n\nTo the Mingo’s memory.\n"}
{"id": "33277028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33277028", "title": "Malko Competition", "text": "Malko Competition\n\nThe Malko Competition is an international competition for young conductors. It is held by the Danish Radio Symphony Orchestra, to commemorate its founding conductor, Nicolai Malko.\n"}
{"id": "5183630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5183630", "title": "Monitor (magazine)", "text": "Monitor (magazine)\n\nMonitor () is a weekly news magazine published in Podgorica, Montenegro.\n\nStarted on October 19, 1990 by university professor Miodrag Perović and businessman Stanislav \"Ćano\" Koprivica, the magazine appeared at a time when the single-party political system in SFR Yugoslavia had been abolished and its constituent republics were preparing for parliamentary elections with multiple parties. At the time, Socialist Republic of Montenegro was ruled by the Yugoslav Communist League's (SKJ) Montenegrin branch (SKCG); more specifically the triumvirate of Momir Bulatović, Milo Đukanović, and Svetozar Marović who were swept into power the previous year during the anti-bureaucratic revolution, an administrative putsch within Montenegrin Communist League initiated by Slobodan Milošević and carried out with the great deal of help from the state security apparatus that he controlled by this time.\n\nThe first issue of \"Monitor\" was printed in Sarajevo in 20,000 copies and then distributed in Montenegro where it sold in symbolic numbers - only couple of hundred of copies. Although the magazine listed 76 individuals as its founders (among them politicians Slavko Perović, Jusuf Kalamperović, Žarko Rakčević, Ljubiša Stanković, Dragiša Burzan, Stevo Vučinić, etc.), in actuality only Miško Perović (editor-in-chief) and Ćano Koprivica (main financier) had actual influence on magazine's editorial policy. Following the poor sales of first issue, the magazine effectively went bankrupt and was only kept alive by individual donations. The next eight issues were also printed in Sarajevo.\n\nSince Koprivica also generously financed Liberal Alliance of Montenegro (LSCG) and Social Democratic Party of Montenegro (SDPCG), \"Monitor\" was in essence another arm of the same political front. Somewhat similar in tone and political stance to other liberal publications at the time in Yugoslavia such as \"Vreme\" from Belgrade or \"Feral Tribune\" from Split, \"Monitor\" was also very critical of the rising nationalism across the country, especially of the Slobodan Milošević-led authorities in SR Serbia. Furthermore, it also frequently criticized the SR Montenegro communist leadership, considering them to be Milošević's pawns. As the League of Communists of Montenegro transformed into the Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro (DPS) in July 1991 and the country slid into the civil war, \"Monitor\" adopted a strong anti-war stance with pointed criticism of Montenegro's involvement and effort in it through the attack on Konavle and the Siege of Dubrovnik. Managed out of a family house in Podgorica's Dalmatinska Street, the magazine intensely criticized the ruling party DPS and its leading members: Montenegrin Prime Minister Milo Đukanović, Montenegrin President Momir Bulatović as well as the regime's chief ideologue and party's leader at the time Svetozar Marović. Its makeshift offices were even fire bombed during the Siege of Dubrovnik. During the same period, and especially following the creation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia after the 1992 Montenegrin referendum, \"Monitor\" was a strong supporter and advocate of Montenegrin independence, which even more aligned it politically and ideologically with LSCG and SDPCG.\n\nBy spring 1994, Koprivica mostly ended his financial support of \"Monitor\", which is when Miško Perović took over that aspect of running the magazine as well. Organizationally, the magazine was under the umbrella of Perović's Montenegropublic company. Although George Soros already had a prominent part in \"Monitor\"'s financing through the local branch of his newly founded Open Society Institute network, this affiliation became even more pronounced after Koprivica left.\n\nIn September 1995, the magazine's place in the Montenegropublic's organizational structure got changed when it was registered within the company as a distinct entity whose managing director became Željko Ivanović. On the same occasion, the same was done with Montenegropublic's other assets at the time: radio station Antena M and radio production studio Mouse.\n\nBy the late 1990s most on the list of original owners signed their stake in the magazine over to Perovic who basically became the sole owner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4252783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4252783", "title": "Nick Redfern", "text": "Nick Redfern\n\nNicholas \"Nick\" Redfern (born 1964) is a British best-selling author, journalist, cryptozoologist and ufologist. Originally from the Midlands in England, Redfern now resides in Dallas, Texas in the United States.\n\nRedfern is an active advocate of official government disclosure of UFO information, and has worked to uncover thousands of pages of previously classified Royal Air Force, Air Ministry and Ministry of Defence files on unidentified flying objects (UFOs) dating from the Second World War from the Public Record Office and currently works as a feature writer and contributing editor for \"Phenomena\" magazine.\n\nHis 2005 book, \"Body Snatchers in the Desert: The Horrible Truth at the Heart of the Roswell Story\", purports to show that the Roswell crash may have been military aircraft tests using Japanese POWs, suffering from progeria or radiation effects.\n\nRedfern attended Pelsall Comprehensive School in Pelsall from 1976 to 1981. He also worked at Dixons paint suppliers with another Ufologist Martin Lenton.\n\nRedfern joined a rock music and fashion magazine \"Zero\" in 1981, where he trained in journalism, writing, magazine production and photography, later going on write freelance articles on UFOs during the mid-1980s.\n\nFrom 1984 until 2001 he worked as a freelance feature writer for the \"Daily Express\", \"People\", \"Western Daily Press\" and \"Express & Star\" newspapers, as well as a full-time feature writer for \"Planet on Sunday\". Between 1996 and 2001 he worked as a freelance journalist for the British newsstand magazines \"The Weekender\", \"Animals, Animals, Animals\", \"Pet Reptile\", \"Military Illustrated\", \"Eye-Spy\", \"The Unopened Files\" and \"The X-Factor\".\n\nBetween 1996 and 2000 Redfern signed a three-book publishing deal with Simon & Schuster of London for the publication of \"A Covert Agenda: The British Government’s UFO Top Secrets Exposed\" (1997), \"The FBI Files: The FBI’s UFO Top Secrets Exposed\" (1998) and \"Cosmic Crashes: The Incredible Story of the UFOs That Fell to Earth\" (1999). These books were published in the United Kingdom, Canada, Russia, Poland, Australia, New Zealand and Portugal.\n\nIn 2003 Paraview-Pocket Books New York published Nick Redfern’s book \"Strange Secrets: Real Government Files on the Unknown\" in May of that year. And, in March 2004 Paraview-Pocket Books, New York, publish his book \"Three Men Seeking Monsters: Six Weeks in Pursuit of Werewolves, Lake Monsters, Giant Cats, Ghostly Devil Dogs, and Ape-Men\". This book tells the story of his relationship with Jonathan Downes and Richard Freeman of the Centre for Fortean Zoology, and has been optioned by Universal Studios. Redfern has run the U.S. branch of the Centre for Fortean Zoology since 2002. In 2007 Universal Studios bought the rights to this book in the hopes of making a film from it.\n\nRedfern works on the lecture circuit, both in the UK and overseas, and has appeared in internationally syndicated shows discussing the UFO phenomenon. Redfern is a regular on the History Channel programs \"Monster Quest\" and \"UFO Hunters\", National Geographic Channels's \"Paranormal\" and the Syfy channel's \"Proof Positive\", as well as appearing in an episode in the third season of \"\", titled \"Ghost Busters\". He has also appeared on a variety of television programmes in the United Kingdom, including \"The Big Breakfast\", \"Channel 5 News\", and \"GMTV\".\n\nHe has been identified as a member of an informal group of friends often called others as the \"Paranormal Rat Pack\" and \"The Cabal\"; other members are filmmaker Paul Kimball, and authors Greg Bishop, and the late Mac Tonnies.\n\nIn a 2002 interview, Redfern stated that \"Andy Roberts and I have a book coming out next year on an alleged UFO crash incident in Wales in 1974.\" This relates to the Berwyn Mountain UFO incident.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9567915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9567915", "title": "Old Treaty Elm", "text": "Old Treaty Elm\n\nThe Old Treaty Elm marked the Northern boundary of the Fort Dearborn Reservation, the approximate edge of the Billy Caldwell Reserve, and the trail to Lake Geneva. The tree was located in the Sauganash neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois, and stood until 1933. The marker is placed several feet west of the actual location of the trunk of the tree, which stood approximately in the middle of what is now Kilbourn Avenue, just north of Rogers Avenue, which is the Old Indian Boundary Line.\n\nThe tree was a point of reference used in the 1836 surveying of the 1600 acre reserve. It divided the reserve into two equal tracts containing 800 acres each.\nContrary to folklore, Billy Caldwell did not endorse the Treaty of Chicago under it. Nor did he receive an annuity payment under it prior to moving to Platte County, Missouri in 1835.\nThe treaty, negotiated and signed in 1833 and enacted in 1835, ceded Indian land on the western shore of Lake Michigan to the US Government in return for land west of the Mississippi River, in what was to become Missouri.\n\nBilly Caldwell History, Peter T. Gayford, https://sites.google.com/site/chiefbillycaldwellhistory/\n"}
{"id": "32401299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32401299", "title": "Operation Combat Fox", "text": "Operation Combat Fox\n\nOn 23 January 1968 North Korean patrol boats supported by two Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-21 fighters captured the USS \"Pueblo\" northeast of the North Korean island of Ung-do. The seizure of the \"Pueblo\" led to President Lyndon Johnson ordering a show of force with a massive deployment of U.S. air and navy assets to Korea. The airlift and deployment of 200+ aircraft was code named Operation Combat Fox while the deployment of six aircraft carriers plus support vessels was code named \"Operation Formation Star\". The operations were supported by the partial mobilization of reservists for the first time since the Cuban Missile Crisis. CIA A-12 \"Oxcart\" reconnaissance overflights over North Korea were used to monitor a feared retaliatory mobilization of North Korean forces and when these flights revealed no mobilization or large scale deployments by North Korean forces, \"Operation Combat Fox\" forces were stood down.\n\nPublicly, the Soviet Union responded by augmenting their naval forces in the Pacific and by sending a letter to the US president Lyndon B. Johnson on 3 February 1968 demanding that the United States scale back their build-up in the Sea of Japan. Privately however, Alexei Kosygin gave assurances to the US ambassador in Moscow (Llewellyn Thompson) on 6 February 1968 that the Soviet Union had no intention to go to war over Kim Il Sung's provocation. As a response to this overture, Lyndon Johnson agreed to withdraw one unnamed vessel \"somewhat southward\". This exchange enabled Brezhnev to make a subsequent face-saving statement to the 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union that the Soviet letter was answered by the Americans by withdrawing the USS \"Enterprise\" from DPRK's shores.\n\nFifth Air Force - Osan AFB \n\n"}
{"id": "2419348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2419348", "title": "Passover (Christian holiday)", "text": "Passover (Christian holiday)\n\nSome Christians observe a form of the Jewish holiday of Passover. The practice is found among Assemblies of Yahweh, Messianic Jews, and some congregations of the Church of God (Seventh Day). It is often linked to the Christian holiday and festival of Easter. Often, only an abbreviated \"seder\" is celebrated to explain the meaning in a time-limited ceremony. The redemption from the bondage of sin through the sacrifice of Christ is celebrated, a parallel of the Jewish Passover's celebration of redemption from bondage in the land of Egypt.\n\nChristian Passover ceremonies are held on the evening corresponding to 14 Nisan (e.g. April 5, 2012) or 15 Nisan, depending whether the particular church uses a quartodeciman or quintodeciman application. In other cases, the holiday is observed according to the Jewish calendar on 15 Nisan, which is also used by Samaritans.\n\nThe main Christian view is that the Passover, as observed by ancient Israel as well as Jews today, was a type of the true Passover sacrifice that was to be made by Jesus.\n\nAs the Israelites partook of the Passover sacrifice by eating it, most Christians commemorate the Jesus' death by taking part in the Lord's Supper, which Jesus is said to have instituted (, ). Most Protestants see the elements as symbolic of Jesus' body or as symbols of the presence and or as a memorial to quicken and confirm a faith already held, while Roman Catholic and Orthodox Christians hold that the elements are changed into Jesus' body and blood, which they then eat and drink. The Orthodox prefer to use the term, \"meteousis\" (change) rather than transubstantiation which is a Western philosophical term applied to a doctrinal concept. Lutherans describe the presence as sacramental union which means that the body and blood are \"in, with, and under\" the bread and wine. Anglicans believe that the bread and wine are outward and visible symbols and that \"The inward and spiritual grace in the Holy Communion is the Body and Blood of Christ given to his people, and received by faith,\" that is as an objective presence and subjective reception.(BCP 1976. p 859). This definition most closely approximates the words of St. John of Damascus, \"the bread and wine are the visible symbols of a spiritual reality.\"\n\nThe spiritual theme of Passover is one of salvation by the atoning blood of a perfect, spotless sacrificed lamb. For many Christians, this is the spiritual pattern seen in Passover which gives it its eternal meaning and significance. The theme is carried on and brought to its ultimate New Covenant fulfillment in the sacrificial death of Christ as the promised sacrifice.\n\nMost Christians simply no longer celebrate the Passover, since it is seen to belong rather to a Jewish or Old Testament tradition which they believe to be no longer necessary. Among those Christians who do observe the Passover, there are some differences in how this is done. Some follow the instructions that Jesus gave to his disciples at the time of his last meal before he was crucified, and share instead of roasted lamb, bread (usually unleavened) and wine. In the Christian Passover service the unleavened bread is used to represent Jesus' body, and wine represents his blood of the New Covenant (). These are a symbolic substitute for Jesus as the true sacrificial Passover \"Lamb of God\" (). It should also be noted that Passover day is followed in the Scriptures by seven days of unleavened bread (). These days have a great dual significance to the observant Christian. Just as leavening causes bread to be puffed up, so sin causes Christians to be \"puffed up\" with the sin of \"malice and wickedness,\" and therefore must \"purge out\" that \"old leaven\" and replace it with \"the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth\" (King James Version - ). Therefore, in the Christian Passover service Christ's body is represented by unleavened bread symbolizing his sinless life, for he alone had no sin (). Since these Scriptures indicate that during the seven days of unleavened bread, leavening represents sin and unleavened bread represents righteousness, when Christians remove leavening during these days they are reminded to put sin out of their lives.\n\nIn some traditions, the ceremony is combined with washing one another's feet, as Jesus did for his disciples the night that he suffered ().\n\nOther Christians celebrate the Passover as the Jews celebrate it. They roast and eat lamb, bitter herbs, and the unleavened Matza.\n\nMany Adventist, Sabbatarian Churches of God, Messianic Jews, Jehovah's Witnesses (who call it the 'Memorial of Christ's Death') and other groups observe a Christian Passover — though all do not agree on the date(s) or the related practices.\n\nSt Thomas Syrian Christians ( Nazranis) in the malabar coast of India (Kerala) have a customary celebration of Pesaha at their homes. On the evening before Good Friday the Pesaha bread is made at home. It is made with unleavened flour and they use a sweet drink made up of coconut milk and jaggery along with this bread ( can be compared to Charoset). On the Pesaha night the bread is baked or steamed in a new vessel, immediately after rice flour is mixed with water and they pierce it many times with handle of the spoon to let out the steam so that the bread will not rise ( this custom is called \" juthante kannu kuthal\" in the Malayalam language meaning piercing the bread according to the custom of Jews). This bread is cut by the head of the family and shared among the family members after prayers. In some families, a creamy dip made up of jaggery and coconut milk is used along with the Peasha bread. If the family is in mourning following a death, Pesaha bread is not made at their home, but some of the Syrian Christian neighbours share their bread with them. This custom may have its origin in their probable Jewish ancestry since many other Jewish customs like separating the sexes at church, praying with veil in their heads(women), naming conventions in line with the Jewish customs, kiss of peace( kaikasthoori) in their Holy Quorbono (mass) [???!!! - \"kiss of peace\" is NOT a Jewish custom!!!] , presentation of their babies on the 40th day after birth in the church and ceremonial bath of the dead bodies. Unlike other Christians, in their weddings the bride stands on the right side of the groom resembling the Jewish custom and during the wedding a veil is given to the bride\n\nSome differences between when groups observe passover are:\nIt was a question of defilement that gave rise to the words: “They themselves did not enter into the governor’s palace, that they might not get defiled but might eat the passover.” (Joh 18:28) These Jews considered it a defilement to enter into a Gentile dwelling. (Ac 10:28) This statement was made, however, “early in the day,” hence after the Passover meal had taken place. It is to be noted that at this time the entire period, including Passover day and the Festival of Unfermented Cakes that followed, was at times referred to as “Passover.” In the light of this fact, Alfred Edersheim offers the following explanation: A voluntary peace offering was made on Passover and another, a compulsory one, on the next day, Nisan 15, the first day of the Festival of Unfermented Cakes. It was this second offering that the Jews were afraid they might not be able to eat if they contracted defilement in the judgment hall of Pilate.—The Temple, 1874, pp. 186, 187\n\nApollinaris and Melito of Sardis were both 2nd century writers that wrote about the end of Christian celebration of the Jewish Passover.\n\nMelito's \"Peri Pascha\" (\"On the Passover\") is perhaps the most famous early document concerning the Christian non-observation of Passover.\n\nApollinaris wrote:\nChristians who kept the biblical Passover were considered Quartodeciman because they kept Passover on the 14th day of Nisan. Polycrates of Ephesus, was a late 2nd century leader who was excommunicated (along with all Quartodecimans) by Pope Saint Victor for observing the Christian Passover on the 14th of Nisan and not switching it to a Sunday resurrection celebration. He, Polycrates, claimed that he was simply following the practices according to scripture and the Gospels, as taught by the Apostles John and Philip, as well as by church leaders such as Polycarp and Melito of Sardis.\n\nAccording to the Catholic Encyclopedia, neither Jesus Christ nor the early church leaders changed the Passover celebration to Easter, \"In fact, the Jewish feast was taken over into the Christian Easter celebration.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56538880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56538880", "title": "Photo London", "text": "Photo London\n\nPhoto London is an annual photography event held at Somerset House in London in May. Galleries and publishers show and sell work by photographers, and there are curated exhibitions and talks. Awards are also given.\n\nIt was established in 2004 and ran until 2006 at the Royal Academy of Arts, then at Old Billingsgate in 2007, then stopped. It was relaunched in 2015 and has since been held at Somerset House.\n\nPhoto London was established in 2004 by Daniel Newburg and held at the Royal Academy of Arts in 2004, 2005 and 2006. In November 2006 it was purchased by Reed Exhibitions (who also owned Paris Photo). Reed ran it, with Newburg acting as creative director, in 2007 at Old Billingsgate and then stopped. Photo London was re-launched in 2015 by a company Candlestar, led by Michael Benson and Fariba Farshad.\n\nAt Photo London, galleries and publishers show and sell work by photographers, and there are curated exhibitions and talks.\n\nOther photography events held at the same time in London include the Prix Pictet exhibition at the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Deutsche Börse Photography Prize exhibition at The Photographers' Gallery, the Peckham 24 photography festival in south-east London, and Offprint, an independent photobook publishers' fair at Tate Modern.\n\nThe following awards are given as part of Photo London:\n\n"}
{"id": "22419340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22419340", "title": "Prix de Rome (Belgium)", "text": "Prix de Rome (Belgium)\n\nThe Belgian Prix de Rome () is an award for young artists, created in 1832, following the example of the original French Prix de Rome. The Royal Academy of Fine Arts Antwerp organised the prize until 1920, when the national government took over. The first prize is also sometimes called the Grand Prix de Rome. There were distinct categories for painting, sculpture, architecture and music. \n\nThe Prix de Rome was a scholarship for arts students. It was created in 1663 in France under the reign of Louis XIV. It was an annual burse for promising artists (painters, sculptors, and architects) who proved their talents by completing a very difficult elimination contest. The prize, organised by the Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture (\"Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture\"), was open to their students. The award winner would win a stay at the Palazzo Mancini in Rome at the expense of the King of France. The stay could be extended if the director of the institution deemed it desirable.\n\nExpanded after 140 years into five categories, the contest started in 1663 as three categories — painting, sculpting, and architecture; in 1803, music was added; in 1804, engraving was added. The winner of the \"First Grand Prize\" (called the \"agréé\") would be sent to The Academy of France in Rome founded by Jean-Baptiste Colbert in 1666. In 1807, Louis Napoleon created the Dutch version of the Prix de Rome. After the creation of Belgium as an independent state in 1830, the Belgian government started their own version of the Prix de Rome in 1832. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "495073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495073", "title": "Sapporo Snow Festival", "text": "Sapporo Snow Festival\n\nThe is a festival held annually in Sapporo, Japan, over seven days in February. Odori Park, Susukino, and Tsudome are the main sites of the festival.</ref>\n\nThis is one of the largest and most distinctive winter events. In 2007 (57th Festival), about two million people visited Sapporo to see the hundreds of snow statues and ice sculptures at the Odori Park and Susukino sites, in central Sapporo, and at the Satoland site. An International Snow Sculpture Contest has been held at the Odori Park site since 1974, and 14 teams from various regions of the world participated in 2008.\n\nThe subject of the statues varies and often features an event, famous building or person from the previous year. For example, in 2004, there were statues of Hideki Matsui, the famous baseball player who at that time played for the New York Yankees. A number of stages made out of snow are also constructed and some events including musical performances are held. At the Satoland site, visitors can enjoy the long snow and ice slides as well as a huge maze made of snow. Visitors can also enjoy a variety of regional foods from all over Hokkaidō at the Odori Park and Satoland sites, such as fresh seafood, potatoes and corn, and fresh dairy products.\n\nEvery year the number of statues displayed is around 400 in total. In 2007, there were 307 statues created at the Odori Park site, 32 at the Satoland site and 100 at the Susukino site. A good view of the creations can be had from the TV Tower at the Odori Park site.\n\nThe Snow Festival began as a one-day event in 1950, when six local high school students built six snow statues in Odori Park. In 1955 the Japan Self-Defense Forces from the nearby Makomanai base joined in and built the first massive snow sculptures, for which the Snow Festival has now become famous. Several snow festivals existed in Sapporo prior to the Sapporo Snow Festival, however, all of these were suspended during World War II.\n\nOn February 4, 1966, a flight from Sapporo to Tokyo crashed into Tokyo Bay killing all 126 passengers and 7 crew on board. Many of the passengers were returning to Tokyo after visiting the snow festival. Owing to the Energy crisis of 1974, snow statues were built using drums. This was due to the shortage of gasoline caused by the crisis and many of the trucks used to carry snow to the site were unavailable. In the same year, the International Snow Statue Competition started and since that year many snow statues built by teams from other countries have featured; especially from sister cities of Sapporo such as Munich.\n\nIn years when the accumulated snowfall is low, the Self-Defense Force, for whom participation is considered a training exercise, brings in snow from outside Sapporo. The Makomanai base, one of three main sites from 1965, hosted the largest sculptures, with an emphasis on providing play space for children. Use of the Makomanai site was suspended in 2005 and moved to the Sapporo Satoland site located in Higashi-ku from 2006. In 2009, the Satoland site was moved to the site. The Tsudome, located close to the Sapporo Satoland, is a dome for multiple sports events.\n\nNakajima Park was established as one of the festival sites in 1990. However, it was removed as a site in 1992. The third site, known as the , is situated in the night-life district of Susukino and includes predominantly ice carvings. The site was approved as one of the festival sites in 1983. Every year, the Susukino Queen of Ice, a female beauty contest, is held at the site.\n"}
{"id": "5734851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5734851", "title": "Skanifest", "text": "Skanifest\n\nSkanifest was a punk, ska and rock festival organized in Ciney, Belgium from 2005 until 2009. The festival's aim was to host rock, ska and punk bands at fair prices. The Skanifest ASBL (non-profit organisation) was dissolved in 2010.\n\nEach year, Skanifest tried to mix local groups starting out, more experienced local bands and artists with national, or even international, experience.\n\nThe first edition (15 April 2005) gathered around 400 people. This was the line-up:\n\n\nThe second edition (25 March 2006) was attended by around 1000 people. The line-up was:\n\n\nThe third edition took place in \"Salle Cecoco\", Ciney, Belgium on 27 January 2007.\n\nThis was the line up:\n\n\nOn 5 April 2008.\n\n\nThe fifth edition took place in \"Ciney Expo\", Ciney, Belgium on 6 February 2009.\n\nThis was the line up:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45372392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45372392", "title": "Spanish ship Real Carlos (1787)", "text": "Spanish ship Real Carlos (1787)\n\nReal Carlos was a 112-gun three-decker ship of the line built at Havanna for the Spanish Navy in 1787 to plans by Romero Landa. One of the eight very large ships of the line of the \"Santa Ana\" class, also known as \"los Meregildos\", \"Real Carlos\" served in the Spanish Navy during the French Revolutionary Wars and was destroyed with heavy loss of life during the Second Battle of Algeciras.\n\nThe \"Santa Ana\" class was built for the Spanish fleet in the 1780s and 1790s as heavy ships of the line, the equivalent of Royal Navy first rate ships. The other ships of the class were the \"Santa Ana\", \"Mexicano\", \"Salvador del Mundo\", \"Conde de Regla\", \"San Hermenegildo\", \"Reina María Luisa\" and \"Príncipe de Asturias\". Three of the class were captured or destroyed during the French Revolutionary Wars.\nIn 1793 the \"Real Carlos\" was under the command of Baltasar Sesma y Zaylorda as the flagship of Admiral Francisco de Borja. Borja led an expedition to Sardinia, capturing the islands of San Pietro Island for Spain and Sant'Antioco for France.\n\nOn 8 April 1799, \"Real Carlos\" was flagship of the Ferrol squadron under Francisco Melgarejo, alongside \"Argonauta\", \"Monarca\", \"San Agustín\", \"Castilla\" and three smaller ships. This squadron sailed in an effort to unite with the French Atlantic Fleet operating in the \"Croisière de Bruix\", but missed the rendezvous and spent much of the rest of the year at anchor in Rochefort, returning on 11 September. The following year \"Real Carlos\" participated in repelling the British Ferrol Expedition.\n\nBy July 1801, \"Real Carlos\" was at Cádiz. When a French squadron defeated a British force at the First Battle of Algeciras on 6 July, \"Real Carlos\" joined the squadron sent to escort the French from Algeciras back to Cádiz. During the night of 12 July the combined force was returning through the Straits of Gibraltar when a British squadron attacked them at the Second Battle of Algeciras. During the confused night action which followed, HMS \"Superb\" cut through the rearguard and between \"Real Carlos\" and \"San Hermenegildo\". The Spanish ships opened fire, striking one another, as a fire spread across \"Real Carlos\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s decks. In the darkness the two huge Spanish ships collided, fire spreading out of control until both exploded in a fireball that could be seen from shore. More than 1,700 men were killed in the blast, one of the greatest losses of life at sea to that time.\n\n"}
{"id": "33131919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33131919", "title": "Summer Darkness", "text": "Summer Darkness\n\nSummer Darkness is an alternative music festival in the Netherlands which was held annually from 2003 to 2013, around the second weekend in August in the city of Utrecht. Over the years its popularity has grown considerably.\n\nSummer Darkness is organised similar to Germany's Wave-Gotik-Treffen, albeit on a much smaller scale. Acts perform in various clubs throughout the city of Utrecht. The main stages are Tivoli Oudegracht, Tivoli de Helling and EKKO. There are also individual performances at the Domkerk and Leeuwenbergh church. Side events include a market, city tours and exhibitions by LARP groups.\nThe festival was a joint venture by Cybercase, Tivoli (Utrecht), EKKO and Mojo until EKKO made the decision in 2009 to quit.\n\nThere have been some minor events held under the banner of Summer Darkness. For instance since 2007 there have been several \"Summer Darkness - Winter Edition\" events.\n\nIn 2014 the festival will be taking a sabbatical from the usual summer edition, traditionally held in the last weekend of July.\nIn 2015 it was announced the festival would no longer be organised, as explained on the festival website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38296267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38296267", "title": "Suzuki Swift Sport Cup", "text": "Suzuki Swift Sport Cup\n\nThe Suzuki Swift Sport Cup is a one-make racing series in New Zealand. The series is made up of Suzuki Swift's sourced through Winger Motor Group in Hamilton, Waikato region. The series is designed to be an inexpensive way for young drivers to get into tin-top racing. Built on the standard production Suzuki Swift Super 1600 with class rules set by Motor Sport New Zealand, the cars are race-modified to set specifications to ensure even competition.\n\nThe championship first started in 2007/08, when the championship ran alongside the New Zealand Production Championship. In 2009/10, the series became its on championship running separate races from the Production Championship.\n\nIn the series' short history, there has only ever been one two-time winner; Cody McMaster in 2007/08 and 2008/09.\n\nDrivers that started on the National Circuit in the Swift Series include:\nIn 2013, the championship will go from supporting the New Zealand V8s in the summer, to supporting the V8SuperTourer series in a year-long series. This will help with the development of the young driver, and increase the opportunity for young drivers to reach the top level of motorsport in New Zealand. Drivers who graduate the Swift Cup, can now easily step into the V8 Challenge Cup to develop their V8 skills before stepping into the V8SuperTourer. Former Swift Cup driver Mark Gibson is currently following this path.\n\nThe deal with V8SuperTourer will see the Suzuki's not running on Dunlop tyres for the first time in the series history. They will be changing over to Hankook tyres.\n"}
{"id": "1210094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1210094", "title": "The Little Rascals (animated TV series)", "text": "The Little Rascals (animated TV series)\n\nThe Little Rascals is a 30-minute Saturday morning animated series produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions and King World Productions. It first aired on ABC on September 25, 1982. A spin-off based on the live-action \"Our Gang\" comedy shorts, it was broadcast as part of \"The Pac-Man/Little Rascals/Richie Rich Show\" in 1982 and then as part of \"The Monchhichis/Little Rascals/Richie Rich Show\" in 1983.\n\nThe characters were designed by Iwao Takamoto and Bob Singer by using tracing paper on top of actual photographs of the real-life characters, and used a pencil to sketch the characters. The same technique was also used in previous Hanna-Barbera spin-offs such as \"Fonz and the Happy Days Gang\" and \"Laverne and Shirley in the Army\".\n\n\"The Little Rascals\" had been animated for television twice before. In the 1960s, a series of nine clay-animated \"Little Rascals Color Specials\" were produced for syndication, presumably by Bura & Hardwick, the British studio responsible for \"Camberwick Green\", using soundtracks from the original \"Our Gang\" films. The episodes include \"Shiver My Timbers\", \"Our Gang Follies of 1936\", \"Second Childhood\", \"Hearts Are Thumps\", \"Came the Brawn\", \"Bear Shooters\", \"Readin' and Writin'\", \"The Pinch Singer\", and \"Teacher's Beau\". \n\nIn 1979, Fred Wolf produced an animated \"The Little Rascals Christmas Special\" for NBC. That company's version was further used in animated public service announcements.\n\nThe animated series and the original live-action \"Our Gang\" films differ in a number of ways. The gang now lives in a contemporary 1980s setting, with computers and television, which could be assumed that these were the descendants of the original Little Rascals. Buckwheat is now a clever inventor and is interested in science, always creating new devices for the gang, and Darla's eyes were changed from hazel to blue (although this detail was trivial given that all of the \"Our Gang\" shorts were in black-and-white). Also in the animated series, the Rascals met in a treehouse and drove around the town of Greenpoint in a dog-drawn vehicle. Also, the theme music was completely different.\n\nIn March 1984, \"Our Gang\" actor Eugene Lee, who had played Porky in the original theatrical short films as a child from 1935 to 1939, sued Hanna-Barbera Productions for nearly $2 million, claiming that the animated character was a violation of his likeness rights. He was joined in the lawsuit by other former \"Our Gang\" kids: George McFarland, who had played Spanky, Tommy Bond, who had played Butch, and Sidney Kibrick, who had played The Woim. Carl Switzer, Darla Hood and Billie Thomas, who had played Alfalfa, Darla and Buckwheat respectively were already deceased. It was found that Hanna-Barbera's license from King World did not include the likeness rights of the former child actors, and the case was settled out of court.\n\nThe animated series of \"The Little Rascals\" has been shown in the following regions:\n\nThe French dub, \"Les Petites Canailles\", replaced the original theme music with a new theme song, performed by a chorus of children over a montage of clips from both the theatrical \"Our Gang\" shorts and the animated shorts.\n\nAired as part of \"The Pac-Man/Little Rascals/Richie Rich Show\"\n\nAired as part of \"The Monchhichis/Little Rascals/Richie Rich Show\"\n\"Tiny Terror\", \"Class Act\", \"Porky-O and Julie-Et\" and \"Cap'n Spanky's Showboat\", previously aired during the first season, were rebroadcast on October 8 and 22, and November 5 and 26, 1983 respectively.\n\n\nIt was announced on Facebook on April 23, 2016 that the series will not be released on DVD due to reasons beyond Warner Archive's control.\n\n"}
{"id": "3661203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3661203", "title": "Torquemada (play)", "text": "Torquemada (play)\n\nTorquemada is an 1869 play by Victor Hugo about Tomás de Torquemada and the Inquisition in Spain. It criticized religious fanaticism and fanatical catholicism. It was first published in 1882, as a protest against antisemitic pogroms in Russia at the time.\n"}
{"id": "31837174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31837174", "title": "Trademark infringement", "text": "Trademark infringement\n\nTrademark infringement is a violation of the exclusive rights attached to a trademark without the authorization of the trademark owner or any licensees (provided that such authorization was within the scope of the licence). Infringement may occur when one party, the \"infringer\", uses a trademark which is identical or confusingly similar to a trademark owned by another party, in relation to products or services which are identical or similar to the products or services which the registration covers. An owner of a trademark may commence civil legal proceedings against a party which infringes its registered trademark. In the United States, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984 criminalized the intentional trade in counterfeit goods and services.\n\nIf the respective marks and products or services are entirely dissimilar, trademark infringement may still be established if the registered mark is well known pursuant to the Paris Convention. In the United States, a cause of action for use of a mark for such dissimilar services is called trademark dilution.\n\nIn some jurisdictions a party other than the owner (e.g., a licensee) may be able to pursue trademark infringement proceedings against an infringer if the owner fails to do so.\n\nCourts consider various factors in order to determine whether a trademark was infringed.\nThis last factor, consumer confusion, is the main topic of debate in most cases. \n\nWhere the respective marks or products or services are not identical, similarity will generally be assessed by reference to whether there is a likelihood of confusion that consumers will believe the products or services originated from the trademark owner.\n\nLikelihood of confusion is not necessarily measured by actual consumer confusion if two products do not directly compete against each other but are in proximate markets. Then, to determine consumer confusion, a court may apply one of various factor tests. The primary test comes from Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and is found in \"AMF, Inc v. Sleekcraft Boats\", 599 F.2d 341 (C.A.9) 1979. The Court there announced eight specific elements to measure likelihood of confusion:\n\nOther Courts have fashioned their own tests for likelihood of confusion—like those announced in \"In re E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co\"., 476 F.2d 1357, 177 USPQ 563 (CCPA 1973)\",\" known collectively as the \"DuPont\" factors.\n\nThe party accused of infringement may be able to defeat infringement proceedings if it can establish a valid \"exception\" (e.g., comparative advertising) or \"defence\" (e.g., laches) to infringement, or attack and cancel the underlying registration (e.g., for non-use) upon which the proceedings are based. Other defenses include genericness, functionality, abandonment, or fair use. \n\nThe ACTA trade agreement, signed in May 2011 by the United States, Japan, Switzerland, and the EU, requires that its parties add criminal penalties, including incarceration and fines, for copyright and trademark infringement, and obligated the parties to actively police for infringement.\n\nIn many countries (but not in countries like the United States, which recognizes common law trademark rights), a trademark which is \"not\" registered cannot be \"infringed\" as such, and the trademark owner cannot bring infringement proceedings. Instead, the owner may be able to commence proceedings under the common law for passing off or misrepresentation, or under legislation which prohibits unfair business practices. In some jurisdictions, infringement of trade dress may also be actionable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17934952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17934952", "title": "Treasures of the Underworld", "text": "Treasures of the Underworld\n\nTreasures of the Underworld was an exhibition featured in the New Zealand pavilion of Seville Expo '92. \n\nThe exhibition featured 48 works, comprising a total of 399 individual pieces. It was extremely successful with over half a million visitors to New Zealand's Pavilion, making it the most-visited exhibition of New Zealand art to that time. \n\nThe exhibition was curated by the art curator James Mack and featured commissions completed by New Zealand's top practitioners of object art in glass and clay at that time. \n\nThe artists who contributed works were:\n\n\nThe theme of the commissions was the celebration of the 500th anniversary of Christopher Columbus's first voyage to America. This emphasis on voyage and discovery influenced the artists to explore the connections with New Zealand and the familiar world of the South Pacific. James Mack urged each artist to stretch both materials and technique beyond Eurocentric influences. \n\nThe interest the works generated came as a surprise. Ian Fraser the Commissioner at the NZ Expo said We were overwhelmed by the enthusiasm of the response...\n\nThe work produced for this exhibition has and continues to influence the development of object art in New Zealand. The success of the exhibition also boosted the profile of ceramic and glass artists in New Zealand.\n\nAfter a personal request from Queen Beatrice of Holland, the exhibition toured to Die Nieuwe Kerk, Amsterdam, Holland, before returning to New Zealand for a nationwide tour.\n\nAfter the tours were complete the artworks were accessioned into the permanent collection of the New Zealand National Art Gallery - now the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa.\n\n"}
{"id": "958661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=958661", "title": "USS Tautog (SSN-639)", "text": "USS Tautog (SSN-639)\n\nUSS \"Tautog\" (SSN-639), a \"Sturgeon\"-class attack submarine, was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for the Tautog (\"Tautoga Onitis\"), a wrasse commonly found along the Northern Atlantic coast. The submarine was in service from 17 August 1968 to 31 March 1997.\n\nThe contract to build \"Tautog\" was awarded to Ingalls Shipbuilding in Pascagoula, Mississippi, on 30 November 1961 and her keel was laid down there on 27 January 1964. She was commissioned on 15 March 1967, sponsored by Pauline Lafon Gore, wife of United States Senator Albert Gore, Sr. (1907–1998) of Tennessee. Under sunny skies, a crowd of thousands watched as Mrs. Gore took a hearty swing with a bottle of champagne and intoned the memorial words, \"In the name of the United States of America, I christen thee Tautog.\" \"Tautog\" was commissioned 17 August 1968 under the command of Commander Buele G. Balderston.\n\nOn 30 August 1968, \"Tautog\" departed Pascagoula on her way to join the United States Pacific Fleet. She transited the Panama Canal on 8 September 1968 and arrived at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on 23 September 1968. There, she joined Submarine Squadron 12, serving as its flagship. Throughout 1969, \"Tautog\" completed her post-commissioning tests and sea trials, followed by her shakedown training cruise. She conducted the majority of these operations in the vicinity of the Hawaiian Islands, although in January and February 1969 she berthed in Puget Sound Naval Shipyard at Bremerton, Washington, for trials and repairs. She completed her shakedown training in September 1969 and, on 15 September 1969, began post-shakedown repairs and alterations which were protracted by the necessity of replacing her entire diesel generator. \"Tautog\"s repairs finally were completed on 19 February 1970, and she began normal operations out of Pearl Harbor, involving torpedo and sonar tracking exercises, culminating in \"Tautog\" earning the Battle Efficiency \"E\" in 1970 for outstanding performance. \"Tautog\" received a Navy Unit Commendation for service on or about 1 June 1969. According to Drew, 2008, \"Tautog\" monitored a test of new cruise missiles launched from an Echo II class Soviet submarine in the summer of 1969.\n\n\"Tautog\" sailed with the Seventh Fleet (Western Pacific, or WESTPAC) in 1970, making port calls in the Philippines, Hong Kong, Okinawa, Japan and Korea. Upon return to Pearl Harbor, \"Tautog\" was presented the Meritorious Unit Commendation for operations conducted during that deployment, 1 October 1970 to 1 April 1971.\n\nOn 20 June 1970, \"Tautog\" was patrolling the North Pacific Ocean near the city of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, on the Soviet Unions Kamchatka Peninsula, which was a major base for missile-armed submarines of the Soviet Navy. \"Tautog\" was attempting to trail the \"K-108\", a Soviet Navy Echo II-class guided missile submarine nicknamed \"Black Lila\". The Soviet submarine was \"close aboard\" with \"Tautog\", unaware that \"Tautog\" was in the vicinity, and the two submarines were within feet of one another for a lengthy period. Unable to determine the depth of the \"K-108\", as new depth-finding hydrophones had not yet been installed, the American submarine was at a disadvantage in such close quarters. At some points the hydrographic equipment aboard \"Tautog\" registered zero distance between the submarines. At another point \"Tautog's\" hydrophone operators assumed the \"K-108\" had risen to near the surface, placing the Soviet submarine directly above \"Tautog\". Then the operators determined the Soviet vessel was descending. The trace on the oscilloscope, that gave the American submariners at visual reference as to the distance of the \"K-108\", disappeared. Just as the captain began to say the Soviet sub was coming close aboard again, \"K-108\" slammed belly first into the top of the \"Tautog's\" sail, proof the Soviet vessel had been descending from directly above. The \"K-108's\" massive screws came into contact with the steel of the \"Tautog's\" sail and lost one screw. This was confirmed by hydrographic sound of a turbine running away aboard the Soviet sub, being no longer coupled to a propeller.\"Tautog\" suffered damage to her sail. As \"Tautog\" proceeded away from the site of the accident, her crew heard what they believed was \"K-108\" breaking up and sinking. When \"Tautog\" arrived in Pearl Harbor, a large portion of one of \"K-108\"s screws was found embedded in her sail. Over thirty years later, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, it was revealed that \"K-108\" had actually been able to return to Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. The former captain of the K-108, Boris Bogdasaryan, was able to provide a concise narrative of the collision. The collision resulted in no casualties aboard either submarine.\n\nEven though the occurrence of this event was adamantly denied by the United States and the Soviet Union, the \"Tautog\"s sail was permanently bent at a 2° angle, which made dry-docking problematic.\n\nIn 1991, the Chicago Tribune broke the story about the collision. Discovery Channel mentioned it in their TV program \"Sharks of Steel\", and the full details were finally made public in 1999 in the book \"Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story Of American Submarine Espionage\".\n\nOn 9 October 1970, \"Tautog\" departed Pearl Harbor for her first East Asian deployment. She arrived on station at Buckner Bay, Okinawa, on 23 October 1970 and joined the United States Seventh Fleet. During her tour of duty in the Western Pacific, she was completely engaged in antisubmarine warfare training, usually with units of the Seventh Fleet but, on one occasion, in a joint operation with the British Royal Navy frigate HMS \"Aurora\" (F10). She spent time in port for liberty and repairs at such places as U.S. Naval Base Subic Bay in the Philippines; Hong Kong; Yokosuka, Japan; and the South Korean port of Pusan. She concluded her first tour of duty in the Western Pacific on 28 March 1971 when she departed Yokosuka bound for Hawaii. She arrived at Pearl Harbor on 5 April 1971 and resumed her routine of upkeep in port alternated with periods at sea engaged in antisubmarine warfare training for the remainder of 1971 and during the first three months of 1972.\n\nOn 21 March 1972, \"Tautog\" put to sea for a special operation. During that mission, she called briefly at Guam and at Subic Bay. At the conclusion of the assignment, \"Tautog\" earned the Navy Unit Commendation for operations conducted during that deployment, 1 June 1972. \"Tautog\" made a liberty visit to Hong Kong before returning via Guam to Pearl Harbor, where she arrived on 31 August 1972. She conducted operations in the Hawaiian Islands for the remainder of 1972.\n\nOn 15 January 1973, \"Tautog\" entered the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard for her first regular overhaul. It was completed on 15 April 1974, when she resumed local operations out of Pearl Harbor which – except for a voyage to the Pacific Northwest which lasted from late July to early September 1974 – occupied her time until the beginning of May 1975. On 3 May 1975, she departed Pearl Harbor for another series of special operations in the Central Pacific and Western Pacific. That voyage included a period in drydock at Guam during the first week in June 1975 as well as exercises in the Philippines near Subic Bay. Ports of call once again included Subic Bay and Hong Kong but no South Korean or Japanese ports. \"Tautog\" returned to Pearl Harbor on 18 October 1975 and resumed her schedule of training and upkeep. The officers and crew were awarded the Navy Expeditionary Medal for the successful completion of their assigned mission.\n\nAttack submarine training, independent ships exercises, inspections, and evaluations, all conducted in the Hawaiian Islands operating area, consumed \"Tautog\"s energies through the end of 1976. She did not deploy overseas again until the beginning of 1977, when she got underway for a goodwill visit to Mombasa, Kenya. Departing Pearl Harbor on 3 January 1977, she reached Mombasa on 24 January 1977 and remained there for a month while her crew saw the sights and she received visitors on board.\n\n\"Tautog\" departed Mombasa on 24 February 1977 and started east toward Pearl Harbor. On the way, however, President of Uganda Idi Amin had precipitated a crisis by rounding up all Americans resident in Uganda in response to President of the United States Jimmy Carters condemnation of the murders of two of Amins Ugandan political opponents, and \"Tautog\" received orders to join a hastily organized task force built around the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier and return to the East African coast. While the United States waited for Amin to make his mind up about whether or not to release the American hostages, \"Tautog\" cruised the coast of Kenya, which stands between landlocked Uganda and the Indian Ocean, with the \"Enterprise\" task force both as a show of American resolve to protect U.S. citizens in Uganda and as a scratch force to try for a hostage rescue if one became necessary. \"Tautog\" received a Meritorious Unit Commendation for service 1 November 1976 to 5 July 1977.\n\nAmin eventually freed the hostages, and \"Tautog\" was released from the special task force and resumed her voyage east, arriving at Guam on 19 March 1977. \"Tautog\" visited Chinhae, South Korea, in April and, on 20 April 1977, arrived in Subic Bay for a series of special operations in the Philippines.\n\nEarly in May 1977, \"Tautog\" made a liberty call at Hong Kong and then returned to Subic Bay on the 18 May. Special operations occupied her time in late May and in June. On 3 July 1977, she arrived back at Pearl Harbor and began a customary post-deployment standdown to allow the crew to rest and recuperate.\n\nDuring the 1977 WESTPAC deployment, her crew enjoyed such liberty ports as Mombasa (Kenya), Guam, Chin Hae (South Korea), the Philippines, and Hong Kong. Upon return to Pearl Harbor, preparations were made for the transit to Vallejo, California, where \"Tautog\" would undergo its second major overhaul and receive a new reactor core. In December 1977 \"Tautog\" entered Mare Island Naval Shipyard and the overhaul commenced.\n\nFollowing completion of the standdown on 8 August 1977, \"Tautog\" conducted local operations in the Hawaiian area until she departed Pearl Harbor on 2 December 1977 to proceed to the Mare Island Naval Shipyard at Vallejo, California, for an overhaul. This overhaul, which included the refueling of her nuclear core, lasted nearly fifteen months, after which \"Tautog\" successfully completed her sea trials and sailed to Pearl Harbor to rejoin the Submarine Force arriving in July 1979.\n\nFollowing an intense period of training and operational exercises, \"Tautog\" again deployed on WESTPAC in March 1980. \"Tautog\" met every commitment placed on her during this period of international tension, and was awarded the Navy Expeditionary Medal for her performance. In September 1980, the ship was awarded the Battle Efficiency \"E\", Anti Submarine Warfare \"A\" and Engineering \"E\" for excellence displayed during the previous year. Port visits to Diego Garcia; the Philippines; Perth, Australia; and Guam were enjoyed by all hands. \"Tautog\" also received a Meritorious Unit Commendation for service on or around 1 June 1980.\n\n1981 found the ship and crew rested and ready to go. After a vigorous training cycle, \"Tautog\" sailed west once more in support of the Seventh Fleet in the Pacific and Indian Oceans. She became the first nuclear submarine to transit the Malacca Straits, surfaced and visited Singapore, the Philippines, Australia, Diego Garcia and Japan. Later in 1982 \"Tautog\" earned her third consecutive Engineering \"E\" and a Damage Control \"DC\" for excellence in Engineering and Damage Control.\n\nIn winter 1982, \"Tautog\" joined one of her sister ships, the USS \"Aspro,\" and journeyed to the frozen reaches of the North. She operated beneath the ice pack for two months and conducted a dual surfacing maneuver at the North Pole with USS Aspro. It was said to be the second rendezvous by two U.S. submarines at the pole and the first during winter.\n\nDuring summer 1983, \"Tautog\" once again found herself operating under the Arctic ice pack. To celebrate her arrival at the Pole, the crew had a picnic, a tug-of-war and dog sled races \"around the world\".\n\nIn 1984, following a two-month shipyard availability, \"Tautog\" entered a vigorous operational crew training period. In the spring of 1984, \"Tautog\" again journeyed west in support of Seventh Fleet operations. \"Tautog\" operated extensively in the Northern Pacific, making port visits to the Philippines, Thailand, and Japan. Again, \"Tautog\" was awarded the Navy Expeditionary Medal.\n\n\"Tautog\" completed a Western Pacific deployment in November 1984 upon her return to Pearl Harbor. After completing a standdown and a post-deployment upkeep period, she hosted prospective commanding officer operations in February 1985 and spent a three-day liberty period at Lahaina, Hawaii, on Maui.\n\nIn the summer of 1985 \"Tautog\" joined the attack submarine in hosting prospective commanding officer operations.\n\nIn October 1985, \"Tautog\" left Pearl Harbor for a Western Pacific and Indian Ocean deployment, visiting Guam; Singapore (for Christmas); Diego Garcia twice; Perth, Australia; the Philippines; and Chinhae, South Korea. On her return to Pearl Harbor \"Tautog\" picked up an Operational Reactor Safeguard Examination team.\n\nDuring the Tautog's time in Subic Bay, Ferdinand Marcos was deposed as President of the Philippines and Corazon Aquino was declared the new president. Tautog finished its refit and continued on to finish its WestPac.\n\nOnce back in Pearl Harbor in April 1986, \"Tautog\" had a change of command ceremony in which Commander Walter P. Stuermann relieved Commander T. R. Kent as commanding officer.\n\nIn October 1986, \"Tautog\" began a non-refueling overhaul at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, Bremerton, Washington. After extensive modifications and testing, \"Tautog\" returned to her homeport of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on 30 May 1989.\n\n\"Tautog\" departed on her eighth Western Pacific deployment in May 1990 visiting Singapore, Hong Kong, Subic Bay (Philippines), and Yokosuka, Japan. The ship experienced a massive typhoon which prevented her from entering Subic Bay for almost a week.\n\nBack in Pearl Harbor in November 1990, \"Tautog\" enjoyed the holidays and began preparing for her third arctic deployment. In April 1991 \"Tautog\" once again joined her sister ship, the USS \"Aspro\"for three weeks of Arctic under-ice operations, ending in a liberty port in San Francisco. After the exercise, \"Tautog\" performed an emergency main ballast tank blow from her test depth.\n\nIn summer 1991, \"Tautog\" hosted the JMSDF submarine \"Akishio\" on her mid-Pac cruise. Several members of both crews shared in each other's culture, and some former members of each crew are still in contact.\n\nDuring the 50th-anniversary remembrance observances of 7 December 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor by the Japanese Empire, \"Tautog\" held the honor of being the showcase submarine, hosting many distinguished World War II veterans.\n\nIn late January 1992, \"Tautog\" successfully fired a MK 48 Advanced Capability warshot torpedo and laid the diesel submarine ex-\"Darter\" to rest in the deep waters just south of Oahu.\n\nIn summer 1992, \"Tautog\" set sail on a WESTPAC deployment where she pulled back-to-back operations totaling approximately 150 days at sea of the approximate 180-day deployment.\n\nIn October 1993, \"Tautog\" was sent on an emergent WESTPAC with four days notice. The ship and crew participated in a joint exercise with the Japanese Maritime Self Defense Force, then enjoyed a liberty port in Hong Kong. On 3 October, ET2(SS) Pitcher lost a year of his age when the Tautog sailed across the International Date Line shortly after midnight. This incident is known as: The Great October International Date Line Demarcation Incident.\n\nIn February 1995, \"Tautog\" departed Pearl Harbor for her eleventh WESTPAC deployment conducting joint operations with Japanese, Korean and British naval forces. During this deployment the crew was still able to enjoy such liberty ports as Guam, Hong Kong, Yokosuka (Japan), Sasebo (Japan), Okinawa (Japan), Chinhae (South Korea), and Subic Bay (Philippines). \"Tautog\" was awarded the Navy Expeditionary Medal for the highly successful completion of this cruise.\n\nMisfortune arrived in February 1996 while the \"Tautog\" was conducting a personnel transfer in the mouth of Pearl Harbor. Unusual winds blowing from Maui caught the sail and \"Tautog\" drifted off course. While the Officer of the Deck was trying to reposition her, she ran into the west bank of the harbor. The damage was slight – cracking the sonar dome – but it was still a ship grounding incident and a board of inquiry was launched to determine the root cause of the incident.\n\nIn July 1996, \"Tautog\" departed on her final deployment, this time to the eastern Pacific, supporting weapons testing and weeks of daily Midshipman orientation cruises. Liberty ports included San Diego and Esquimalt (British Columbia), with a repair stop in Bangor, Washington.\n\n\"Tautog\" made her last dive on Sunday, 13 October 1996, her 1119th dive.\n\n\"Tautog\"s inactivation ceremony was held on 25 October 1996. After an inactivation period of approximately 6 months, \"Tautog\" departed her lifelong homeport of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii for the final time, en route to Puget Sound Naval Shipyard for final disposition.\n\n\"Tautog\" was decommissioned on 31 March 1997 and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register the same day. Her scrapping via the U.S. Navys Nuclear-Powered Ship and Submarine Recycling Program at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard in Bremerton began on 15 March 2003 and was completed on 30 November 2004.\n\n\"Tautog\"s sail was preserved and is now on display at Seawolf Park in Galveston, Texas. ). It suffered damage when Hurricane Ike struck the area in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2975188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2975188", "title": "Venice Biennale of Architecture", "text": "Venice Biennale of Architecture\n\nMostra di Architettura di Venezia, the architecture section of the Venice Biennale, was established in 1980, although architecture had been a part of the art biennale since 1968.\n\nAs well as addressing the academic side of architecture, the Biennale provides an opportunity for architects and designers to showcase new projects, arranged in different pavilions, each with different themes. The Architecture Biennale is currently held in the Biennale Gardens.\n\nThe 16th International Architecture Exhibition was titled Freespace and was curated by Yvonne Farrell and Shelley McNamara.\n\nAwards:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 15th International Architecture Exhibition was directed by Alejandro Aravena 28 May - 27 November. \n\nAwards:\n\n\nThe 14th International Architecture Exhibition: \"Fundamentals\". Directed by Rem Koolhaas. 7 June - 23 November, 2014.\n\nAwards:\n\nThe 13th International Architecture Exhibition: \"Common Ground\". Directed by David Chipperfield. 29 August - 25 November 2012.\n\nAwards:\n\nThe 12th International Architecture Exhibition: \"People meet in architecture\". Directed by Kazuyo Sejima. 29 August - 21 November, 2010.\n\nAwards:\n\nThe 11th International Architecture Exhibition: \"Out There: Architecture Beyond Building\". Directed by Aaron Betsky. 14 September - 23 November, 2008.\n\nAwards:\n\nThe 10th International Architecture Exhibition: \"Cities, architecture and society\". Directed by Ricky Burdett. 10 September - 19 November, 2006. The collateral section City-Port was held in Palermo until January 14, 2007. The exhibition attracted over 130,000 visitors.\n\nAwards:\n\nThe 9th International Architecture Exhibition: \"METAMORPH\". Directed by Kurt W. Forster. 12 September - 7 November, 2004. The exhibition attracted over 115,000 visitors.\n\nAwards:\n\nThe 8th International Architecture Exhibition: \"NEXT\". Directed by Deyan Sudjic. 8 September - 3 November, 2002. The exhibition attracted over 100,000 visitors.\n\nAwards:\n\nThe 7th International Architecture Exhibition: \"Less Aesthetics, More Ethics\". Directed by Massimiliano Fuksas. 18 June - 29 October, 2000.\n\nAwards:\n\nNational Pavilions\n\nThe 6th International Architecture Exhibition: \"Sensing the Future—The Architect as Seismograph\". Directed by Hans Hollein.\n\nAwards:\n\nNational Pavilions\n\nThe 5th International Architecture Exhibition. Directed by . 8 September – 6 October, 1991. \n\nAwards:\n\nNational Pavilions\n\nThe 4th International Architecture Exhibition: \"Hendrik Petrus Berlage—Drawings\". Directed by Aldo Rossi. 18 July – 28 September, 1986. Villa Farsetti, Santa Maria di Sala.\n\nThe 3rd International Architecture Exhibition: \"Progetto Venezia\" (international competition). Directed by Aldo Rossi. 20 July – 29 September, 1985. \n\nAwards:\n\nThe 2nd International Architecture Exhibition: \"Architecture in Islamic Countries\". Directed by Paolo Portoghesi. 20 November 1981 – 6 January 1982.\n\nThe 1st International Architecture Exhibition: \"The presence of the Past\". Directed by Paolo Portoghesi. 27 July – 20 October, 1980.\n\nIncluded the Strada Novissima exhibition at the Corderie dell'Arsenale, and exhibitions on Antonio Basile, the architect; The Banal Object. An Exhibition of Critics. An Exhibition of Young Architects. Homage to Gardella, Ridolfi and Johnson.\n\nTheatre of the World. The Dogana at the end of the Zattere, created by Aldo Rossi for the Architecture and Theatre Sections of the Biennale in occasion of the exhibition Venice and the Stage (winter 1979–80).\n\nUtopia and the Crisis of Anti-Nature. Architectural Intentions in Italy. Magazzini del Sale, Zattere. Director: Vittorio Gregotti.\n\nWerkbund 1907. The Origins of Design; Rationalism and Architecture in Italy during the fascist period; Europe-America, old city centre, suburbia; Ettore Sottsass, an Italian designer. Ca' Pesaro, San Lorenzo, Magazzini del Sale, Cini Foundation. Director. Vittorio Gregotti.\n\nOn the subject of the Stucky Mill. Magazzini del Sale at the Zattere. Curated by the Visual Arts and Architecture Section of the Biennale, directed by Vittorio Gregotti.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37907724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37907724", "title": "Ventura Lambrate", "text": "Ventura Lambrate\n\nVentura Lambrate is an international design show, held annually in April in Milan, Italy.\nIts sister shows, Ventura Interieur, is held biennial in October, in Courtray, Belgium, during Courtray Design Biennale Interieur and Ventura Berlin took place in October 2011 during Qubique in Berlin.\n\nThe show began in 2010 with Ventura Lambrate, and was declared an instant success, resulting that the show expanded into Germany and Belgium,\nand was renamed Ventura Projects. All shows run parallel to large design events.\n\n"}
{"id": "5024057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5024057", "title": "Versailles wedding hall disaster", "text": "Versailles wedding hall disaster\n\nThe Versailles wedding hall (), located in Talpiot, Jerusalem, Israel, was the site of the most lethal civil disaster in Israel's history. At 22:43 on May 24, 2001, during the wedding of Keren and Asaf Dror, a large portion of the third floor of the four-story building collapsed. As a result, 23 people fell to their deaths through two stories, including the groom's 80-year-old grandfather and his three-year-old second cousin, the youngest victim. Another 380 were injured, including the bride who suffered serious pelvic injuries that required surgery. Asaf, who escaped serious injury, carried her in his arms from the rubble.\n\nThe disaster shocked the Israeli public not only because it was one of the worst building disasters in the country's history, but because the event was documented on a camcorder and broadcast on local and international television.\n\nRescue efforts were carried out by the Home Front Command's Search & Rescue Unit and the Yachtza reserve unit. Rescue efforts commenced immediately after the collapse and continued until 4pm on Saturday May 26, 2001. Three people were pulled from the rubble alive, and 23 bodies were removed.\n\nAn investigation of the event concluded that the event was not caused by a terrorist attack. This was based on the testimony provided by many of the wedding guests present in the building during the disaster. Witnesses reported seeing a dangerous sag in the floor moments before the collapse. An initial inquiry blamed the collapse on the Pal-Kal method of constructing light-weight coffered concrete floor systems which was banned shortly after the completion of the wedding hall since it was known and proven to be unsafe. Further review pointed to a combination of two alternative causes.\n\nInitially, the side of the building that failed was designed to be a two-story structure, while the other side was designed to be three stories. Late in the construction process, it was decided that both sides of the building should be equal heights, and a third story was added to the shorter side. However, the live load due to occupancy is typically much greater than the design load for a roof. As a result, the structure supporting the new third story was subjected to much greater loading than was originally anticipated. The effect of this error was somewhat mitigated by the construction of partitions on the floor below, which helped redistribute the excess load well such that no damage was incurred.\n\nA few weeks before the collapse, the wedding hall owners decided to remove the partitions. With the load path eliminated, the floor above began to sag several centimetres. The owners viewed the sagging floor primarily as a cosmetic problem, and attempted to level it with additional grout and fill. However, their approach not only failed to provide additional structural capacity, it also inadvertently introduced a new and significant dead load at the weakened area.\n\nDuring the wedding event in 2001, this significantly overstressed floor section failed, resulting in the catastrophe. The engineer Eli Ron, inventor of the Pal-Kal method of construction, was arrested and subsequently indicted in August 2002 on the charge of manslaughter. Ron had not engaged in any part of the design or construction, but had sold proprietary elements necessary for construction that were installed in a deficient manner.\n\nFollowing the disaster, the \"Versailles Law\" was passed by the Parliament of Israel. This law established a special committee responsible for treating the people injured in the disaster. Moreover, an official investigation committee was established by the then Prime Minister Ariel Sharon under the leadership of the former judge Vardimos Zeiler , who was in charge of the security of public places and buildings. The Zeiler Committee on Building Safety investigated both the Versailles wedding hall collapse as well as the Maccabiah bridge collapse which occurred four years earlier in 1997, and released its final report in December 2003.\n\nIn October 2004, the three owners of Versailles wedding hall — Avraham Adi, Uri Nisim, and Efraim Adiv – were convicted of causing death by negligence and causing damage by negligence. Adi and Adiv were sentenced to 30 months' imprisonment while Nisim was sentenced to four months of community service.\n\nThe wedding hall was subsequently demolished, and as of 2017 the site remained unoccupied and sealed. Across the street from the site is a memorial garden with names of victims inscribed on a wall.\n\nIn May 2007, Eli Ron and three engineers involved in the building's construction were sentenced to prison by the Jerusalem District Court. Eli Ron received a four-year sentence, Shimon Kaufman and Dan Sheffer 22 months, and Uri Pessah six months. In December 2006, the court convicted all three men of causing death by negligence and sabotage by negligence.\n\nA memorial garden to the victims was built near the disaster site.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36152030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36152030", "title": "Way On Cemetery", "text": "Way On Cemetery\n\nWay On Cemetery is a burial place in Panama City for the country's Chinese community, many of whose ancestors immigrated during the construction of the Panama Railroad in the mid-nineteenth century. The plot was purchased in 1882 by the Sociedad Way On and designed in accordance with feng shui and numerology traditions. Construction began the next year, and the first interment was in 1911. In 1942, due to a shortage of burial places in the city, half of the property was forcibly leased by the government, but it was returned to the Chinese community in 2002. Today, traditional Tomb Sweeping ceremonies are held annually and funeral ceremonies are performed regularly.\n\nDespite its stone wall enclosures and towering entrance gate, Way On has suffered from vandalism in recent years, and faces ongoing threats due to development pressures and lack of site maintenance. The site was included on the 2012 World Monuments Watch and is classified as \"Rescue Needed\" by Global Heritage Network.\n\n"}
{"id": "2572186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2572186", "title": "Web Standards Project", "text": "Web Standards Project\n\nThe Web Standards Project (WaSP) was a group of professional web developers dedicated to disseminating and encouraging the use of the web standards recommended by the World Wide Web Consortium, along with other groups and standards bodies.\n\nFounded in 1998, The Web Standards Project campaigned for standards that reduced the cost and complexity of development while increasing the accessibility and long-term viability of any document published on the Web. WaSP worked with browser companies, authoring tool makers, and peers to encourage them to use these standards, since they \"are carefully designed to deliver the greatest benefits to the greatest number of web users\". In 2013 the project was closed.\n\nThe Web Standards Project began as a grassroots coalition \"fighting for standards in our [web] browsers\" founded by George Olsen, Glenn Davis, and Jeffrey Zeldman in 1998. By 2001, the group had achieved its primary goal of persuading Microsoft, Netscape, Opera, and other browser makers to accurately and completely support HTML 4.01/XHTML 1.0, CSS1, and ECMAScript. Had browser makers not been persuaded to do so, the Web would likely have fractured into pockets of incompatible content, with various websites available only to people who possessed the right browser. In addition to streamlining web development and significantly lowering its cost, support for common web standards enabled the development of the semantic web. By marking up content in semantic (X)HTML, front-end developers make a site's content more available to search engines, more accessible to people with disabilities, and more available to the world beyond the desktop (e.g. mobile).\n\nFounding members of the project moved on in 2002 but continued to evangelize web standards to design and business audiences. In this period, the Web Standards Project became primarily an educational organization.\n\nProject leaders were:\n\nThere were members that were invited to work on ad hoc initiatives, the Buzz Blog and other content areas of the site.\n\nThe group announced its own dissolution in a Buzz Blog post on March 1, 2013.\nThe Web Standards Project hosted projects focused on bringing relevant organizations closer to standards-compliance, dubbed Task Forces.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "237137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237137", "title": "What would Jesus do?", "text": "What would Jesus do?\n\nThe phrase \"What would Jesus do?\" (often abbreviated to WWJD) became popular, particularly in the United States but elsewhere as well, in the 1990s and as a personal motto for adherents of Christianity who used the phrase as a reminder of their belief in a moral imperative to act in a manner that would demonstrate the love of Jesus through the actions of the adherents.\n\nIn popular consciousness, the acronym signifying the question—WWJD—is associated with a type of bracelet or wristband which became a popular accessory for members of Christian youth groups, both Catholic and Protestant, in the 1990s.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church emphasizes the concept of \"Imitatio Christi\" (imitation of Christ), which is summarized well in the English phrase \"What Would Jesus Do?\"\n\nJohn Wesley, the founder of the Methodist Church, in 1766 postulated the concept of Christian perfection, a moment in the life of a Christian at which the regeneration effectuated by the Holy Spirit results in a \"perfection in love\" which means that at least at that moment one is being motivated wholly by love of God and neighbor, with no taint of sin or ulterior motives in effect. While such Christian perfection is expressed in outward action, it is also the effect of grace. Indeed, Wesley could speak of sanctification by faith as an analogous doctrine to the more widely held belief in justification by faith. Because Christian perfection is also visible in outward good works and a rigorously moral lifestyle, adherents of the Holiness movement assumed that a perfectly moral lifestyle is a consequence (not the cause) of the state of grace and ultimate salvation.\n\nCharles Spurgeon, a well-known evangelical preacher in London, used the phrase \"what would Jesus do\" in quotation marks several times in a sermon he gave on June 28, 1891. In his sermon he cites the source of the phrase as a book written in Latin by Thomas à Kempis between 1418 and 1427, \"Imitatio Christi\" (The Imitation of Christ).\n\nCharles Sheldon's 1896 book \"In His Steps\" was subtitled \"What Would Jesus Do?\" Sheldon's novel grew out of a series of sermons he delivered in his Congregationalist church in Topeka, Kansas. Unlike the previous nuances mentioned above, Sheldon's theology was shaped by a commitment to Christian Socialism. The ethos of Sheldon's approach to the Christian life was expressed in this phrase \"What Would Jesus Do\", with Jesus being a moral example as well as a Saviour figure. Sheldon's ideas coalesced with those that formed into the Social Gospel espoused by Walter Rauschenbusch. Indeed, Rauschenbusch acknowledged that his Social Gospel owed its inspiration directly to Sheldon's novel, and Sheldon himself identified his own theology with the Social Gospel.\n\nDue to a mistake by the original publisher, the copyright for Sheldon's novel was never established and multiple publishers were able to print and sell the novel. This caused the novel to be easily affordable and it sold 30 million copies worldwide, making it one of the top 50 bestselling novels ever.\n\nIn this popular novel (it had been translated into 21 languages by 1935), Rev. Henry Maxwell encounters a homeless man who challenges him to take seriously the imitation of Christ. The homeless man has difficulty understanding why, in his view, so many Christians ignore the poor:\n\n<poem>I heard some people singing at a church prayer meeting the other night,\n\n\"All for Jesus, all for Jesus,\nAll my being's ransomed powers,\nAll my thoughts, and all my doings,\nAll my days, and all my hours.\"\n\nand I kept wondering as I sat on the steps outside just what they meant by it. It seems to me there's an awful lot of trouble in the world that somehow wouldn't exist if all the people who sing such songs went and lived them out. I suppose I don't understand. But what would Jesus do? Is that what you mean by following His steps? It seems to me sometimes as if the people in the big churches had good clothes and nice houses to live in, and money to spend for luxuries, and could go away on summer vacations and all that, while the people outside the churches, thousands of them, I mean, die in tenements, and walk the streets for jobs, and never have a piano or a picture in the house, and grow up in misery and drunkenness and sin.\"</poem>\n\nThis leads to many of the novel's characters asking, \"What would Jesus do?\" when faced with decisions of some importance. This has the effect of making the characters embrace Christianity more seriously and to focus on what they see as its core — the life of Christ.\n\nIn 1993, Garrett W. Sheldon (great-grandson of the original author) and Deborah Morris published \"What Would Jesus Do? : a contemporary retelling of Charles M. Sheldon's classic In His Steps\". Garrett Sheldon states that his updated version \"is based on many actual events in the lives of believers.\"\n\nIt is possible that Sheldon was familiar with either Spurgeon or Thomas, or that he was independently inspired.\n\nA youth group leader at Calvary Reformed Church in Holland, Michigan, named Janie Tinklenberg, began a grassroots movement to help the teenagers in her group remember the phrase; it spread worldwide in the 1990s among Christian youth, who wore bracelets bearing the initials WWJD. Later, a sequel bracelet was generated with the initials \"FROG,\" to provide an answer to \"WWJD.\" FROG was an acronym for \"Fully Rely On God.\"\n\nIn 2005, Garry Wills wrote \"What Jesus Meant\", in which he examined \"What Would Jesus Really Do\" (also a book review in \"Esquire Magazine\").\n\nIn April 2010 a film, \"WWJD\", starring Adam Gregory and based on \"In His Steps\" by Charles Sheldon, was released on DVD.\nOn 31 March 2015 a sequel film was released \"WWJD What Would Jesus Do? The Journey Continues\". The second film using the moniker \"WWJD II\" was \"The Woodcarver\" which was released in 2012. It has a similar theme but different characters.\n\nThe expression has become a snowclone, sometimes for humorous effect. For example, \"What Would Jesus Buy?\", \"What Would Lincoln Do?\", \"What Would Brian Boitano Do?\", \"What Would Mary Marvel Do?\", \"What Would Johnny Cash Do?\", and \"What would Tintin do?\".\n\nThe term \"What Would Jesus Do?\" or \"WWJD\" is also perceived as a fundamental management and leadership principle given Jesus' methodology of going to the marketplace to preach and lead by example. In modern management principles, more academic and professional references are going to the gemba or Management by Walking Around.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37494949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37494949", "title": "Winterbourne View hospital abuse", "text": "Winterbourne View hospital abuse\n\nThe Winterbourne View hospital inquiry occurred at Winterbourne View, a private hospital at Hambrook, South Gloucestershire, England, owned and operated by Castlebeck. A Panorama investigation broadcast on television in 2011, exposed the physical and psychological abuse suffered by people with learning disabilities and challenging behaviour at the care home. \n\nLocal social services and the English national regulator (Care Quality Commission) had received various warnings but the mistreatment continued. One senior nurse, Terry Bryan, reported his concerns to the management at Winterbourne View and to CQC, but his complaint was not taken up.\n\nThe public funded hospital has been shut down as a result of the abuse that took place.\n\nThe undercover footage showed staff repeatedly assaulting and harshly restraining patients under chairs. Staff gave one patients cold punishment showers, left her outside in near zero temperatures, and later poured mouthwash into her eyes. They pulled patients' hair and forced medication into patients' mouths. Victims were shown screaming and shaking, and one patient was seen trying to jump out of a second floor window to escape the torment, and was then mocked by staff members. One patient was repeatedly poked in the eyes.\n\nA clinical psychologist who reviewed the footage described the abuse as \"torture\".\n\nOn 21 June 2011, 86 people and organisations wrote to the Prime Minister, David Cameron about the revelations, \"We are aware of the various actions currently being taken within and outside government – such as the DH review and CQC internal inquiry. We hope to make submissions to those both individually and collectively. However, on their own these will not be enough and a clear programme is needed to achieve change.\"\n\nThe prime minister responded saying he was “appalled” at the “catalogue of abuses” Panorama uncovered.\n\nIn June 2011 the Association of Supported Living issued a press statement, which was followed up in writing to every member of parliament in the United Kingdom, calling for community based supported living services to replace institutional services for people with learning disabilities.\n\nThe \"Daily Mail\" said \"Without the investigation by the BBC's Panorama, given huge coverage in the Mail, the abuse of patients at Winterbourne View might be continuing to this day. As it is, the secure hospital and two other care homes have been shut down, 11 guilty staff have been brought to justice – and a devastating report now exposes the serial failings of the local NHS, police and health watchdogs. For the past year, the Leveson Inquiry has focused relentlessly on the failings of the media. Never let it be forgotten how much this country owes, in the fight against cruelty and corruption, to its free Press.\"\n\nThe \"Daily Telegraph\" said, \"It is impossible to read the details of what went on at Winterbourne View, a care home for the severely disabled in Gloucestershire, without feeling repelled. In the wake of an exposé from the BBC's Panorama, 11 members of staff were convicted of almost 40 charges of neglect and ill treatment of those in their care.\"\n\nThe national regulator, the CQC did a nationwide check on facilities owned by the same company, Castlebeck Care – as a result three more institutions have been closed. The CQC reported a \"systemic failure to protect people or to investigate allegations of abuse\" and said that Castlebeck Care had \"misled\" the health watchdog.\n\nThe CQC also came under criticism for failing to respond to early warnings of abuse at the care home. It initially blamed Winterbourne managers who, the CQC said, \"effectively misled us by not keeping us informed about incidents\". However, it later emerged that managers had officially alerted the CQC to numerous allegations of staff abusing patients, dating back to February 2008, which were also reported to the police, but did not lead to any convictions.\n\nThe CQC also inspected 132 similar institutions and a Serious Case Review was commissioned – some of the roughly ten local and national enquiries were carried out to examine what went wrong, including one by NHS Southwest which was one of the first to be published and list many of the others.\nThe head of the Care Quality Commission resigned ahead of a critical government report, a report in which Winterbourne View was cited. Mencap published a report warning that similar abuse could be going on elsewhere and calling for the closure of all large institutions far from people's families.\n\nEleven people pleaded guilty to criminal offences of neglect or abuse as a result of evidence from Undercover Care and six of them were jailed. Immediately after the eleventh person pleaded guilty, the Serious Case Review was published, revealing hundreds of previous incidents at the hospital and missed warnings.\n\n\nBBC Panorama produced an investigation documentary depicting the violations at Winterbourne View Hospital titled \"Undercover Care: The Abuse Exposed\".\n\n"}
