{"id": "33080318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33080318", "title": "2MASS J21392676+0220226", "text": "2MASS J21392676+0220226\n\n2MASS J21392676+0220226 is a brown dwarf 47 light years from earth. Its surface is thought to be host to a massive storm. It was discovered in the Two Micron All-Sky Survey (2MASS).\n"}
{"id": "3100319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100319", "title": "Aerodynamic force", "text": "Aerodynamic force\n\nThe aerodynamic force is the force exerted on a body by the air (or some other gas) in which the body is immersed, and is due to the relative motion between the body and the gas. The aerodynamic force arises from two causes:\n\n\nPressure acts locally, normal to the surface, and shear force acts locally, parallel to the surface. The net aerodynamic force over the body is due to the pressure and shear forces integrated over the total exposed area of the body.\n\nWhen an airfoil (or a wing) is moving relative to the air it generates an aerodynamic force, in a rearward direction at an angle with the direction of relative motion. This aerodynamic force is commonly resolved into two components:\n\n\nIn addition to these two forces, the body may experience an aerodynamic moment also, the value of which depends on the point chosen for calculation.\n\nThe force created by a propeller or a jet engine is called \"thrust\" and it is also an aerodynamic force (since it also acts on the surrounding air). The aerodynamic force on a powered airplane is commonly represented by three vectors: thrust, lift and drag.\n\nThe other force acting on an aircraft during flight is its weight. Weight is a body force and is not an aerodynamic force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50015690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50015690", "title": "Attachment and Health", "text": "Attachment and Health\n\nAttachment and Health is psychological model which considers how attachment theory pertains to people’s preferences and expectations for the proximity of others when faced with stress, threat, danger or pain. In 1982 the American Psychiatrist, Lawrence Kolb, noticed that patients with chronic pain displayed behaviours with their healthcare providers akin to what children might display with an attachment figure, thus marking one of the first applications of attachment theory to physical health. Development of adult attachment theory and adult attachment measures in the 1990s provided researchers with the means to apply attachment theory to health in a more systematic way. Since that time it has been used to understand variation in stress response, health outcomes and health behaviour. Ultimately, the application of attachment theory to health care may enable health care practitioners to provide more personalized medicine by creating a deeper understanding of patient distress and allowing clinicians to better meet their needs and expectations.\n\nJohn Bowlby and Mary Ainsworth developed attachment theory in the 1960s while investigating the effects of maternal separation on infant development. The development of the Strange Situation task in 1965 by Ainsworth and Wittig allowed researchers to systematically investigate the attachment system operating between children and their parents. The Strange Situation involves separating infant-parent dyads and observing infant behaviours upon reunion. Infant behaviour tended to follow patterns, leading to the development of three attachment categories: Secure, Anxious-Avoidant, and Anxious-Resistant. In 1990, Ainsworth added a new category, championed by Mary Main, called Disorganized/Disoriented attachment, characterized by its less reliable pattern of behaviour.\n\nBowlby believed attachment to be a primary biological drive to achieve proximity with a caregiver that transforms across child development to also encompass a psychological drive to find security by achieving a preferred interpersonal distance with an important caregiver he called an attachment figure. Insecure attachment patterns develop when caregivers are experienced as inconsistent or unpredictable, which necessitates the development of different strategies to achieve a sense of comfort and safety within an interpersonal setting. Furthermore, he posited that attachment figures function as a \"secure base\" that facilitate environmental eexploration and that \"attachment behaviours\" are triggered by perceived stress, danger or pain, and are thus \"state dependent\".\n\nIn the late 1980s Cindy Hazan and Phillip Shaver applied attachment theory to adult romantic relationships based on observations of the interactions between adult romantic partners.☃☃ They noticed that romantic partners often prefer to be physically close, become anxious when they are separated and that stressful situations can be buffered by the presence of a romantic partner. Three main methods of measuring adult attachment have been developed (see attachment measures), with slightly different purposes and variable amounts of concordance between them. Some aim to categorize attachment style while others rate degrees of attachment anxiety and avoidance.\n\nAttachment styles refer to characteristic patterns of thought concerning the ability of self and others to help an individual achieve security. Longitudinal studies have suggested attachment is fairly stable from childhood to adulthood. When shifts do occur it is usually with good reason, with shifts away from secure attachment due to increased hardship and shifts towards secure related to finding partners in adulthood or finding symbolic attachments (God, places, pets) \n\nSecurely attached people generally have positive views about themselves and about others. They tend to agree with statements \"It is relatively easy for me to become emotionally close to others. I am comfortable depending on others and having others depend on me. I don't worry about being alone or others not accepting me.\"\n\nAnxious-preoccupied people tend to view themselves less positively than okthey view others. They are more likely to become highly anxious when they are away from their attachment partners and are at risk of becoming, or seeming, dependent. They tend to agree with statements such as “I want to be completely emotionally intimate with others, but I often find that others are reluctant to get as close as I would like\", and \"I am uncomfortable being without close relationships, but I sometimes worry that others don't value me as much as I value them.\" \n\nAvoidant-dismissive people tend to have a positive view of themselves and a less positive view of others. They often highly value independence and become uncomfortable in, or resist, situations where they become dependent on others. They tend to agree with statements such as \"I am comfortable without close emotional relationships\", \"It is very important to me to feel independent and self-sufficient\", and \"I prefer not to depend on others or have others depend on me.\" This is considered to be roughly equivalent to the anxious-avoidant style in children.\n\nFearful-avoidant people tend to have conflicted, and often negative, views of themselves and of others. They often desire to have emotional relationships but feel uncomfortable when others get too close. They tend to agree with statements such as \"I am somewhat uncomfortable getting close to others. I want emotionally close relationships, but I find it difficult to trust others completely, or to depend on them. I sometimes worry that I will be hurt if I allow myself to become too close to others.\" People with loss or trauma in childhood are at greater risk of developing this style of attachment.\n\nAnxious-Preoccupied\nPeople with anxious-preoccupied attachment tend to be hypervigilant to signs of danger and to worry or catastrophize about symptoms. In health care appointments, their narrative is full of intense negative emotion but relatively sparse in the specific detail desired by health care providers. This presentation can readily be perceived as “needy” or “dramatic”. If the healthcare provider pulls away in response it may reinforce the patient’s need to articulate their distress, creating a cycle of distress-withdrawal-distress.\n\nAvoidant-Dismissive\nPeople with avoidant dismissive attachment emphasizetheir independence and minimizing expressing distress. They may delay seeking healthcare (see healthcare utilization), minimize reporting symptoms and disclose limited personal information.\n\nFearful-Disorganized\nPeople with fearful attachment often avoid routine healthcare, but present in a crisis with volatile, intense, negative emotions. Due to their degree of distress, they can present a disorganized narrative that is difficult for providers to follow and interpret diagnostically.\n\nWorking models are representatives of the cognitive schema, or psychological structure (often unconscious), which underlie the different attachment classifications. Working models develop in children over time based on their experiences with their attachment figures. The cognitive schema for attachment consists of views of the efficacy of self and other to create security in times of distress.\n\nBartholomew and Horowitz proposed and verified a working model based on two dimensions; the view of the self (self-esteem) and the view of others (sociability)\n\nIn 2012 Maunder and Hunter combined the internal working model with the attitudes, behaviours and emotional expression of the different styles to create a prototype based classification that included severity of insecurity. This model was designed to be clinically useful, allowing healthcare providers to identify and predict the behaviours of patients whose attachment systems were activated by pain and illness.\n\nThey distinguish the different attachment styles by; 1) attachment anxiety, the discomfort someone feels when separated, 2) attachment avoidance, which is discomfort associated with closeness and 3) severity of insecurity \n\nAttachment and health interact on multiple levels. Attachment is a biologically based system tied to our response to distress and attachment styles appear to confer differences in stress physiology. Illness and pain themselves act as an “activating signal” for attachment systems, and health care providers act as attachment figures in their role addressing illness and pain. Accordingly, attachment styles influence patient perception of illness, health care utilization, medication compliance and treatment response.\n\nWhile strong social support has been linked to greater resilience to stress and lower medical morbidity and mortality, the mechanism behind this association is poorly understood. In the late 1990s, Paul Ciechanowski investigated the role of attachment styles in patients managing diabetes, finding that individuals with an avoidant-dismissive style were less likely to be compliant with treatment recommendations and had less well-controlled disease as measured by glycosylated hemoglobin. Larger scale evidence comes from a large American survey of self-reported attachment styles and physical illness conducted by McWilliams and Bailey. They found that those with insecure attachment reported more physical illness than securely attached individuals. Specifically, they found preoccupied individuals reported more heart disease, and dismissive individuals more pain conditions. A prospective study followed children until the age of 32 and found a similar pattern of results. They found that people with anxious-resistant (dismissive) styles of attachment reported vague, non-specific symptoms more often, and those with anxious-preoccupied classification had a higher rate of inflammation-based illnesses. This prospective study was particularly important because of the difficulty assigning causation in the often observed relationship between chronic pain and insecure attachment. Further support is derived from experimental pain studies that have demonstrated numerous risk factors for the development of a chronic pain disorder associated with insecure adult attachment including lower perceived control of pain, higher pain catastrophizing and higher perceived pain intensity.\n\nAttachment theory can be conceptualized as a theory of emotional regulation. Bowlby predicted that insecure attachment would be a risk factor for mental health difficulties based on ineffective, or overly rigid, strategies for reducing distress and maintaining psychological resilience. There is a substantial body of literature that supports an association between adult insecure attachment and a wide variety of mental health disorders including depression, anxiety, eating, psychotic and personality disorders. Prospective evidence (research starting with infant attachment and following up over time) is mostly limited to studies following infants into childhood or adolescence as opposed to adulthood, but does demonstrate that insecure attachment is a general risk factor for both internalizing and externalizing symptomatology. Of the handful of studies that have followed infants to adulthood, the only two clear relationships that exist are between (1) disorganized attachment and dissociative symptoms and (2) resistant attachment and anxiety disorders in late adolescence.\n\nCausal relationships between insecure attachment and mental illness may be complex. Some risk factors for insecure attachment such as loss of parental figure, and sexual or physical abuse, are also risk factors for mental health disorders. Self-report measures of attachment may be biased by mental health conditions. For example, clinical depression is often associated with negative thoughts about the self, and this cognitive bias may influence the self-report in attachment questionnaires. There may be interpersonal consequences from untreated mental health conditions. Pre-existing psychological problems can increase the likelihood of secure attachment changing to insecure attachment over time.\n\nMaunder and Hunter outline 3 ways in which insecure attachment can serve as a risk factor for health problems: 1) it may increase one’s susceptibility to stress by changing stress physiology, 2) it may be related to potentially harmful behaviours undertaken to regulate affect, and 3) it may change the way people interact with the healthcare system.\n\nSee also: stress (biology), stress (psychological)\nThe stress response in humans is largely governed by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) and sympathetic nervous system. The HPA axis has garnered particular attention from attachment researchers because it is known to be activated by social stressors. The normal response for this system is to release stress hormones, particularly cortisol, for a brief duration and then shut itself off due to negative feedback, resulting in a short, strong release of cortisol. The HPA axis also follows a circadian rhythm, with highest release within about 30 minutes to 1 hour upon awakening, called the cortisol response to awakening (CRA), and a slow taper throughout the day. Researchers have looked at both cortisol response to stress (CRS) and CRA to determine if attachment anxiety and avoidance underlie individual differences in HPA activity.\n\nFindings in the field have inconsistent. The evidence suggests that (a) individuals with high attachment anxiety perceive a higher degree of distress when faced with a stressor and have higher baseline anxiety compared to those low in attachment anxiety, (b) most studies suggest higher cortisol reactivity to stress in anxiously attached individuals, while two studies did not support this trend(c) avoidant-dismissive attachment has been less consistent, with some studies showing an increase in cortisol produced in response to a stressor, and others not finding any differences in comparison to securely attached individuals(d) fearful attachment is associated with lower cortisol both upon awakening and in response to a stressor although one study in pregnant women found less diurnal variation in those fearfully versus securely attached, leading to a higher bedtime cortisol level in the fearful group. The finding that those with fearful attachment would show small cortisol reactivity in response to a stressor may seem counterintuitive but is in line with the predictions of stress researcher Bruce McEwen, who hypothesized that frequent early stressors in life would cause an initial hyper-reactivity in the HPA axis that would over time become pathologically sluggish as the individual ages, leading to greater overall cortisol release and less adaptive responsivity.\n\nAnother related biological system that regulates stress response is the autonomic nervous system. In general, the sympathetic system is activated during times of stress and the parasympathetic system acts to decrease physical readiness for stress. These systems are sometimes called the “fight-or-flight” and “rest-or-digest” systems, respectively, and operate in a balance, as opposed to being totally on or off. Researchers can approximate the relative balance by looking at skin conductance, blood pressure and heart rate. Studies of this kind provided hard evidence that avoidant infants were truly distressed during the strange situation task despite their minimally distressed appearance as they showed elevations in heart rate when caregivers were away and took longer to return to baseline when the caregiver returned in comparison to securely attached infants. Studies of skin conductance and heart rate in adults have shown that those with avoidant attachment and anxious attachment will show markers of increased distress during attachment and non-attachment stressors compared to those securely attached.\n\nAccording to attachment theory people with insecure attachment have less effective strategies for dealing with negative emotions compared to people with secure attachment. One way in which insecurely individuals may try to regulate their distress is by using strategies or behaviours that are attractive for their short term relief but may have deleterious risks over years like eating, drug use or risky sex. \nIn a survey of 356 primary care patients in Toronto, rates of smoking, harmful drinking and obesity, were all found to be highest in those with the most severe anxious and avoidant attachment. Both attachment anxiety and attachment avoidance have been linked in separate studies to increasing the risk of eating disorders and substance use in adolescents.\n\nEating\nA review of attachment and eating disorder literature in 2010 showed rates of insecure attachment to be approximately 70% in eating disorder populations in contrast to the 30-40% prevalence in the normal population. These rates are similar to those found in other mental health populations. The review noted small trends for anxious attachment to be more highly associated with binge-purging symptomatology and avoidant attachment to be more highly associated with restrictive. The relationship between high attachment anxiety and disinhibited eating, or binge eating, has also been found in non-clinical and pre-bariatric surgery populations. The disordered eating in insecure attachment does seem to have implications for overall health as well, with one study demonstrating a relationship with higher body mass index and another demonstrating a higher risk for metabolic syndrome at mid life.\n\nDrug Use\nRecreational substances provide a powerful external means of regulating affect. Insecure attachment is considered to be one of the chief psychological constructs associated with increased risk for drug use. A small study in Germany found that drug users were less likely to be secure than non-drug users and that heroine users in particular had a markedly high rate of fearful attachment. Researchers believed that these findings were in keeping with the “self-medication” hypothesis of drug use and that heroine, as opposed to other drugs of abuse, may target attachment distress more readily by acting more directly on the opioid system. Jaak Panksepp hypothesized in the 1980s that endogenous opioids are responsible for the warm, affiliative, interpersonal feelings that come with social connection, and this has been supported by recent evidence showing that naloxone administration, an opioid blocker, results in a decreased feeling of social connection in healthy individuals. Recent work also demonstrates that attachment dimensions have bearing on natural opioid signaling, with brain scans showing that those high in attachment avoidance have decreased opioid receptor availability. In clinical samples insecure attachment is related to higher opioid use in chronic pain patients and higher analgesic consumption during labor. In a study of young adult females, drug use was one of several risky behaviours that occurred more frequently in those with insecure attachment along with unsafe driving and sexual practices.\n\nSex\nRisky sexual behaviour is defined as sexual contact with an increased risk of either unwanted pregnancy or sexually transmitted infection. In a study aimed at evaluating the evidence supporting six major risky sex theories, Leslie Simons and her colleagues found that only the social support and attachment theory had strong empirical support. In the attachment theory model, risk is enhanced in insecurely attached individuals due to negative working models of relationships, reduced closeness in intimate relationships and through decreased self-control. In terms of conscious motivations for sex, attachment anxiety is related to many attachment-related motivations including using sex for desire for emotional closeness, reassurance, self-esteem enhancement, stress reduction, the experience and exertion of power, elicitation of caregiving from a partner, protection from a partner’s anger or bad moods. Those high in attachment avoidance report using sex for power or partner manipulation and endorse a desire to use sex as a way of avoiding emotional closeness. Accordingly, there is evidence that attachment avoidance is associated with positive attitudes towards casual sex, a higher number of casual sex partners, and an interest in emotionless sex and one-night stands.\n\nTreatment adherence\nAttachment insecurity also plays an important role in how people follow the advice of the healthcare community. Attachment avoidance has consistently been linked to poorer treatment adherence and more recently to no shows in scheduled follow up appointments. Attachment avoidance has also been linked to lower rates of cervical cancer screening in both American and Iranian populations.\n\nAttachment theory predicts that people high in attachment avoidance and people high in attachment anxiety would display different utilization of health care resources based on their prototypical behavioural responses when stressed. The theory predicts that people high in attachment avoidance, when faced with an illness, are likely to minimize their symptoms, and wait longer to see a health care provider, since they view their own distress as a sign of unacceptable vulnerability and also because their internal working model dictates that other people are not useful in helping them manage distress. For those high in attachment anxiety, they would have higher distress when faced with an illness, less perceived ability to manage it on their own, and thus visit health care services more frequently to try to attain security. For those with high anxiety and high avoidance, or fearful attachment, they would be predicted to present less frequently than those with secure attachment, but show up in a crisis when they do, which may interfere with optimal care. Research findings have generally been supportive of these predictions. One of the earliest studies in the field found correlations between preoccupied attachment and increased symptom reporting and an inverse relationship between avoidant attachment and visits to health professionals. High attachment anxiety has been associated with increased symptom reporting and visits to healthcare providers, and high attachment avoidance associated with less visits and decreased treatment compliance\n"}
{"id": "28914149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28914149", "title": "Barkov Glacier", "text": "Barkov Glacier\n\nBarkov Glacier () is a glacier draining northeast between Mount Dallmann and the central part of the Shcherbakov Range, in the Orvin Mountains, Queen Maud Land. First photographed and roughly plotted by the Third German Antarctic Expedition, 1938–39, it was mapped from air photos and surveys by the Sixth Norwegian Antarctic Expedition, 1956–60, remapped by the Soviet Antarctic Expedition, 1960–61, and named after Soviet geographer A.S. Barkov.\n\n"}
{"id": "2239651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239651", "title": "Betaretrovirus", "text": "Betaretrovirus\n\nBetaretrovirus is a genus of the Retroviridae family. It has type B or type D morphology. The type B is common for a few exogenous, vertically transmitted and endogenous viruses of mice; some primate and sheep viruses are the type D.\n\nExamples are the mouse mammary tumour virus, enzootic nasal tumour virus (ENTV-1, ENTV-2), and simian retrovirus types 1, 2 and 3 (SRV-1, SRV-2, SRV-3).\n\n"}
{"id": "18622733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622733", "title": "Bio-1", "text": "Bio-1\n\nBio-1 is a consortium of partners founded in 2007 designed to identify and promote bioscience in the Central New Jersey area. It is the result of a $5 million grant made available by the Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED) program.\n\nBio-1’s goal is to make Central New Jersey (CNJ) the next “hot spot” for the global bioscience industry, by creating high-quality, high-paying jobs and a skilled workforce. The five-county BIO-1 partnership is named for the Route 1 corridor from Rutgers to Princeton, around which most of CNJ’s biotech firms are clustered. The CNJ region, comprising Hunterdon, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, and Somerset counties, has received $5 million, available under the Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED) program from the United States Department of Labor (USDOL). The WIRED grant will be used to transform the rich array of existing bioscience education and training and economic development initiatives into an into a world class bioscience talent development system.\n\nThe partnership has its roots in an initiative created by Governor Jon Corzine as part of his statewide economic strategy. This is the third WIRED investment in New Jersey, making it “the most WIRED state” in the U.S.\n\nIn collaboration with representatives of all key players in the biosciences in CNJ, the Bio-1 initiative will focus on six key strategies:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13074924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13074924", "title": "Bioindustry Park Silvano Fumero", "text": "Bioindustry Park Silvano Fumero\n\nThe Bioindustry Park Silvano Fumero (BiPCa) is a Science and Technology Park located in Canavese near Turin in the north-west of Italy.\nThe park was founded to promote and develop biotechnological research, to host companies operating research and development, and pilot production in the life science sector. Companies such as Merck Serono and Bracco chose the Park as the location for their research and development activities.\n\nThe Park offers a complete set of support services to R&D activities, not only offering research facilities and scientific services, but also flexible and attractive financing solutions, sound project management and results evaluation. \n\nThe park is the owner of the Laboratory for Advanced Methodologies (LIMA) which performs exploitation of scientific results in the fields of Chemistry, Molecular Biology, Proteomics and Bioinformatics. LIMA, thanks to its solid co-operation with the University of Turin and CNR ISPA (Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche), is also a permanent training site for graduates and researchers. \n\nA University Center in Imaging Technologies (CEIP) managed by University of Torino is also active and is focused on the use of different technologies (MRI, Ultrasound, X-ray, etc.) in order to evaluate new solutions in the diagnosis and assessment of the efficacy and efficiency of drugs.\n\nIn 2005 BiPCa has launched, with the support of Regione Piemonte, the Discovery initiative to identify and select innovative entrepreneurial ideas in the Biotech field. Eight start-ups have already been created from the beginning of the project in partnership with Eporgen venture, a Seed capital company focused on investment in new innovative entrepreneurial projects in the biotech field.\n\nBioindustry Park is also acting as system integrator for the development of a local cluster, bioPmed (http://www.biopmed.eu).\nSince 2009 Bioindustry Park acts as cluster management company for the development of the regional cluster bioPmed (www.biopmed.eu) on biotech and medtech. Created thanks to Regione Piemonte, it gathers more than 60 companies, research centres and three academic institutions (University of Turin, Università del Piemonte Orientale and Turin Polythecnic), who signed an agreement to create, build, support and animate the local cluster. \n\nAll the activities are carried out in cooperation with strong local actors, such as Turin Province and Turin Chamber of Commerce, CEIPiemonte, ALPS EEN and Patlib network and synergies with other local R&D initiatives are in place. The cluster is also founding member of the AlpsBioCluster (www.alpsbiocluster.eu) together with Rhône-Alpes Region (France), Lombardy, South Tirol, Bavaria and Western Switzerland that intends to promote and foster transalpine competitiveness in the biotech and medical sciences sectors. \n\n"}
{"id": "18765224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18765224", "title": "Bisalog", "text": "Bisalog\n\nBisalog, also \"Tagbis\", is a portmanteau of the words 'Bisaya' and 'Tagalog' which refers to either a Visayan language or Tagalog being infused with words or expressions from the other.\n\nSpeakers of Bisalog may often code-switch with English, as well, resulting in what is sometimes called \"Bistaglish\" or \"Tagbislish\".\n\nThe word also used by radio station DZRH as a news/talk show where it brings the latest news from around the provinces (via Aksyon Radyo) every Sunday at 7am.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39430585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39430585", "title": "Chanchlani Global Health Research Award", "text": "Chanchlani Global Health Research Award\n\nThe Chanchlani Global Health Research Award is a Canadian health sciences award that recognizes a world leading scholar in the area of Global Health. Each year a discipline within Global Health (i.e. Determinants of Health, Policy Development, and Innovative Solutions) is chosen by the internal review committee at McMaster University. The review committee then selects the leading researcher based on interview and impact in the field. The award recipient receives a monetary prize of $25,000 and opportunity to present their research findings to researchers and students.\n\nThe award provides opportunities for informal scientific exchanges between the scientist/scholar and faculty, postdoctoral fellows, graduate and undergraduate medical students. The award was created by the Chanchlani Family through $1 Million endowment along with a $250,000 donation at the McMaster University in 2012.\n\nSource: McMaster University\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25803468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25803468", "title": "Charles Schnetzler", "text": "Charles Schnetzler\n\nCharles Carter Schnetzler (June 3, 1930 – December 15, 2009) was a planetary scientist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. Schnetzler is best known for analyzing moon rocks brought back by the Apollo program and for studying the Earth's environment using the Landsat and the Earth Observing System. Schnetzler was born in Whiting, Indiana and grew up in Neodesha, Kansas. On November 4, 2009, Schnetzler was seriously injured after being hit by a car while walking near his home on Little Patuxent Parkway in Columbia, Maryland. He later died in his home on December 15, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "50701327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50701327", "title": "DNA teleportation", "text": "DNA teleportation\n\nDNA teleportation (also called DNA transduction) is a pseudoscientific claim that DNA produces electromagnetic signals (EMS), measurable when highly diluted in water. This signal can supposedly be recorded, transmitted electronically, and re-emitted on another distant pure water sample, where DNA can replicate through polymerase chain reaction despite the absence of the original DNA in the new water sample. The idea was introduced by the French Nobel laureate Luc Montagnier in 2009. It is similar in principle to water memory, another pseudoscientific concept popularised by another French scientist, Jacques Benveniste, in 1988.\n\nNo independent research has supported the claim, and established science does not support this theory, or provide any plausible mechanism by which it might work. In 2015, Montagnier's team published another finding similar to the original one, but using bacterial and viral DNA. Here they claim that the electromagnetic waves could be explained in terms of quantum effect.\n\nIn 2009, Montagnier and his collaborators published a paper titled \"Electromagnetic signals are produced by aqueous nanostructures derived from bacterial DNA sequences\" in which they showed that bacterial DNA can produce electromagnetic signal (EMS) that is transferred through the cell culture medium. They used the DNA of bacteria \"Micoplasma pirum\" and \"Escherichia coli\" cultured in a T lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) culture medium. They took the solution of the culture medium with all the bacteria filtered off. Absence of bacterial DNA was ascertained by polymerase chain reaction. When the solution was simply incubated for two or three weeks, the bacterial DNA was detected. They diluted the solution several times and tested for electromagnetic radiation using Fourier analysis by a method developed by Jacques Benveniste and his team in 1996. They detected electromagnetic frequencies only at high dilutions, such as ranging from 10 to 10.\n\nIn a subsequent paper published in the same year, they reported similar EMS from the DNA of HIV under high dilution of the culture medium. They used the prototype virus, HIV1 strain (the discovery for which Montangier shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2008). The experiment is more sophisticated. They used CEM cells (T cell leukemia cells) to culture the virus (HIV infected the cells). No EMS was detected an any concentration. They tested blood samples of different HIV-infected patients, such as those showing symptoms of AIDS, treated with antiretroviral therapy (ART), and untreated individuals. They found that EMS were detectable in plasma dilutions between 10 and 10. The blood samples were only from patients previously treated with ART and having no detectable viral DNA copies in their blood.\n\nThe experiment was first made in July 2005, and was repeated and filmed for a TV documentary in 2013, released on the French channel France 5 on 5 July 2014. The online journal \"Ouvertures\" detailed the test protocol through interviews with Montagnier.\n\nMontagnier's experiment can be summarised as follows:\n\n\nIt is proposed by Montagnier that some molecules interact through electromagnetic waves instead of direct contact. These waves could be trapped into coherence domains formed by water molecules vacuum spheres at quantum scales. These structures would keep the signal in the absence of the original molecule. During the PRC step of the experiment, this remaining signal could have contained the necessary information for the initial DNA to be reconstructed.\n\nThe principle is similar to Benveniste's experiment from 1997 where EMS was recorded from ovalbumine at the Northwestern University Medical School of Chicago, and transmitted through email to Benvenist's Digital Biology Laboratory in Clamart, France. After emitting the signal on pure water for 20 minutes, the water could cause an allergic shock on an isolated Guinea-pig heart allergic to ovalbumine. In both experiments the EMS reproduces the properties of the original molecules in their absence.\n\nThe 2009 publications immediately followed scientific comments and criticisms on the credibility of the purported phenomenon, as well as the authenticity of the research. According to Jeff Reimers of the University of Sydney, Australia, \"If the results are correct, these would be the most significant experiments performed in the past 90 years, demanding re-evaluation of the whole conceptual framework of modern chemistry.\" Gary Schuster, at Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, compared it to pathological science.\n\nThe credibility of the peer-review system of the journal \"Interdisciplinary Sciences: Computational Life Sciences\", in which the 2009 papers were published, was questioned. It was a new journal of which Montagnier is chairman of the editorial board. PZ Myers at the University of Minnesota Morris also described it as \"pathological science.\" He described the paper as \"one of the more unprofessional write-ups I've ever run across\" and criticized the publication process as having an \"unbelievable\" turnaround time: \"another suspicious sign are the dates. This paper was submitted on 03 January 2009, revised on 05 January 2009, and accepted on 06 January 2009\", leading him to ask: \"Who reviewed this, the author's mother? Maybe someone even closer. Guess who the chairman of the editorial board is: Luc Montagnier... This is the same nonsense and the same apparatus that Benveniste was peddling.\" The influence of Benveniste can also be inferred from one of the co-authors, Jamal Aïssa, who was Benveniste's collaborator in the research in which they claim that water memory can be transported through the internet. (It was for this research that Benveniste received his second IgNobel Prize in 1998.)\n\nPhilip Ball wrote an analysis about Montagnier's work in \"Chemistry World\", stating \"It looks like one of the most astonishing discoveries in a century, yet it was almost entirely ignored.\" He claims this experiment was never replicated and that the work was \"ignored for good reason, namely that it’s utterly implausible\".\n\nOn 28 June 2010, Montagnier spoke at the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting in Germany, \"where 60 Nobel prize winners had gathered, along with 700 other scientists, to discuss the latest breakthroughs in medicine, chemistry and physics.\" He \"stunned his colleagues ... when he presented a new method for detecting viral infections that bore close parallels to the basic tenets of homeopathy. Although fellow Nobel prize winners – who view homeopathy as quackery – were left openly shaking their heads, Montagnier's comments were rapidly embraced by homeopaths eager for greater credibility. Cristal Sumner, of the British Homeopathic Association, said Montagnier's work gave homeopathy 'a true scientific ethos'.\"\n\nMontagnier was also questioned about his beliefs on homeopathy, to which he replied: \"I can’t say that homeopathy is right in everything. What I can say now is that the high dilutions are right. High dilutions of something are not nothing. They are water structures which mimic the original molecules. We find that with DNA, we cannot work at the extremely high dilutions used in homeopathy; we cannot go further than a 10 dilution, or we lose the signal. But even at 10, you can calculate that there is not a single molecule of DNA left. And yet we detect a signal.\"\n"}
{"id": "28631172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28631172", "title": "Dilmun (Titan)", "text": "Dilmun (Titan)\n\nDilmun is a region of high albedo on Titan, Saturn's natural satellite.\n\nDilmun is located near the equator, centered on 15°N and 175 ° W.\n\nThe large dark area of Shangri-la is located in the south.\n\nDilmun was discovered in the images transmitted by the \"Cassini\" spacecraft. It received the name of Dilmun, the garden paradise in Sumerian mythology.\n"}
{"id": "1274309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274309", "title": "Direct ascent", "text": "Direct ascent\n\nDirect ascent is a method of landing a spacecraft on the Moon or another planet directly, without first assembling the vehicle in Earth orbit, or carrying a separate landing vehicle into orbit around the target body. It was proposed as the first method to achieve a manned lunar landing in the United States Apollo program, but was rejected because it would have required developing a prohibitively large launch vehicle. It was used to launch uncrewed lunar landers in the United States Surveyor program and the Soviet Luna program.\n\nThe Apollo program was initially planned based on the assumption that direct ascent would be used. This would have required developing an enormous launch vehicle, either the Saturn C-8 or Nova rocket, to launch the three-man Apollo spacecraft, with an attached landing module, directly to the Moon, where it would land tail-first and then launch off the Moon for the return to Earth. The other two options that NASA considered required a somewhat smaller launch vehicle, either the Saturn C-4 or C-5. These were Earth Orbit Rendezvous, which would have involved at least two launches to assemble the direct-landing and return vehicle in orbit; and Lunar Orbit Rendezvous (LOR), which carried a smaller two-man lunar lander spacecraft for flight between lunar orbit and the surface. LOR was the strategy used successfully in Apollo.\n\nThe Soviet Union also considered several direct ascent strategies, though in the end they settled on an approach similar to NASA's: two men in a Soyuz spacecraft with a one-man LK lander. The failure of the Soviets' N1 rocket delayed their lunar program substantially, however, and they were nowhere close to a successful N1 launch when Apollo 11 lifted off and made the first manned lunar landing. The Soviets had planned to use an LK, which looked much like a smaller version of the spider-like Lunar Module, although OKB-52 continued to develop the UR-700 modular booster for the direct ascent LK-700 ship.\n\nScience fiction movies such as \"Destination Moon\" had frequently depicted direct ascent missions.\n\n"}
{"id": "31624317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31624317", "title": "Economic recovery", "text": "Economic recovery\n\nAn economic recovery is the phase of the business cycle following a recession, during which an economy regains and exceeds peak employment and output levels achieved prior to downturn. A recovery period is typically characterized by abnormally high levels of growth in real gross domestic product, employment, corporate profits, and other indicators.\n\nThis is a turning point from Contraction to Expansion. This often results in increase in consumer confidence.\n\nThe United States of America experienced an economic recovery following the 'Great Recession' of 2008. The United States AMI (Average Median Income) has not statically changed in a dramatic since the end of the Johnson Administration (inflation adjusted). This is due to a lack of industrial policy in the United States over the last 50 years, and an over-reliance on laissez faire economics in this era.\n"}
{"id": "31336108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31336108", "title": "Electric bath (electrotherapy)", "text": "Electric bath (electrotherapy)\n\nAn electric bath is a 19th-century medical treatment in which high-voltage electrical apparatus was used for electrifying patients by causing an electric charge to build up on their bodies. In the US this process was known as Franklinization after Benjamin Franklin. The process became widely known after Franklin described it in the mid-18th century, but after that it was mostly practiced by quacks. Golding Bird brought it into the mainstream at Guy's Hospital in the mid-19th century and it fell into disuse in the early 20th century.\n\nThe source of electricity for an electric bath was usually a frictional electrical machine. The patient was seated on a wooden stool, and both the patient and the stool insulated from ground by a platform on glass legs or some other insulator. In some arrangements, the patient was lying down rather than seated. The patient was then charged with static electricity either by direct connection to one electrode of the generator (usually the positive), or else through electrostatic induction by holding a large electrode close to the patient's body. The electric tension applied was around . Treatment could take several hours. Following charging the patient was \"bathed\" in electricity, hence the name of the procedure. This can be observed in a darkened room as a luminous discharge around the patient, especially at the hair and extremeties.\n\nThe electric bath treatment was painless, but it caused the patient to warm and sweat, and the heart rate to increase. It also caused the hair to stand on end. The electric bath could form a treatment in itself. It could also be the first stage in further treatment. A common procedure was to draw sparks from the patient after charging, especially from the spine.\n\nElectricity had been in use for medical treatment since the mid-18th century. However, this was mainly at the hands of quacks and charlatans, often promoting the treatment as a universal panacea. One notorious fringe practitioner using the electric bath was James Graham. It was brought into the mainstream by Golding Bird at Guy's Hospital who ran the \"electrifying room\" there from 1836. This was not the first time electricity had been used as a treatment in a hospital, but Bird was the first to study its efficacy with scientific rigour. According to Thomas Addison, past hospital use had been \"vague and indiscriminate\". Bird was well aware of the need to overcome this bad reputation and convince his colleagues. In a series of \"Guy's Hospital Reports\", Bird identified specific treatments for specific conditions based on case studies. He was quick to highlight conditions that could not be treated so that his work was distinguished from the charlatans. Nevertheless, electrotherapy was usually considered a treatment of last resort when all else had failed.\n\nBird's most common use of the electric bath was to use the electric charge on the patient to draw off sparks by placing another electrode near the point of treatment. He used this method on the spine of chorea sufferers with some success. Another condition for which Bird used this treatment was wrist drop caused by lead poisoning. Bird found that there were some conditions for which this treatment did not work, mostly conditions where the brain or nervous system had been damaged such as epilepsy.\n\nThe process of charging up a patient with static electricity was called \"Franklinization\" after Benjamin Franklin briefly experimented in this field. He attempted to treat a number of paralytics, first with electric shocks, and then with static charging, but without much success. He described these procedures in a letter of 1757. Franklinization could also be applied locally to a wound or specific patch of skin with a hand-held array of needle electrodes. The intention was often to generate a \"static breeze\", a wind of ionized air over the skin. Alternatively, the intention could be to breathe in the ionized air as a form of ozone therapy.\n\nElectric bath apparatus for medical use were still for sale as late as 1908.\n\n"}
{"id": "58259044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58259044", "title": "Evidence For Democracy", "text": "Evidence For Democracy\n\nEvidence for Democracy (E4D) is a non-partisan Canadian non-profit organization which advocates for evidence-based policy-making in the government. It was co-founded by Katie Gibbs (Executive Director) and Scott Findlay in 2012.\n\nIn July 2012, prior to forming E4D, Katie Gibbs was one of the organizers for the Death of Evidence protest in Ottawa. Over 2,000 scientists and supporters attended the protest, which was in the form of a mock funeral, to protest then Prime Minister Stephen Harper's government funding cuts to basic science research and in response to Bill C-38. The protest's success prompted Gibbs to co-found E4D.\n\nE4D advocates for evidence-based policy-making and to build a national culture where science and evidence are valued. E4D primarily launches issue-based campaigns to address current issues which affect science, alongside panels, lectures, workshops and documentary screenings, to provide knowledge and skill-based training to the scientific community, as well as the broader public.\nOn 16 September 2013, E4D collaborated with local organizers to hold Stand Up for Science protests in 17 cities (including Toronto and Vancouver), to voice concerns for the state of science in Canada. Previous science advocacy, coupled with the Stand Up for Science protests across Canada, helped place science as a key campaign issue in the 2015 Canadian federal elections.\n\nIn March 2016, the Professional Institute of the Public Service of Canada and E4D submitted an open letter with over 5,000 Canadians signatures, to the Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Minister Navdeep Bains, and Minister Kirsty Duncan, to safeguard government scientists' right to speak through collective agreements. In July 2018, following lobbying, the Canadian federal government introduced guidelines for scientific integrity.\n\nIn September 2017, E4D launched a petition, on behalf of the Polar Environment Atmospheric Research Laboratory (PEARL), to advocate for funding for PEARL's research into Canadian atmospheric climate science. As a result of this petition and lobbying from others, the Canadian government allocated $1.6-million to allow PEARL's continued operation until fall of 2019. E4D is currently campaigning for long-term PEARL funding, and to re-introduce funding for the six Canadian climate science projects (members of the Climate Change and Atmospheric Research program) which lost their funding.\n\nThroughout 2018, E4D collaborated with local organizers to host the March for Science in 10 Canadian cities (St. John’s, Halifax, Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, Windsor, Winnipeg, Regina, Vancouver and Victoria) on Saturday 14th April 2018. In mid-2018, E4D partnered with others to launch a campaign to return environmental and natural resource decision-making to public interest, advocating for the public to contact their representative and the Minister of the Environment and Climate Change Strategy. This campaign aims to address the British Columbia government's professional reliance system.\n"}
{"id": "1780649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780649", "title": "Feynman's Lost Lecture", "text": "Feynman's Lost Lecture\n\nFeynman's Lost Lecture: The Motion of Planets Around the Sun is a book based on a lecture by Richard Feynman. Restoration of the lecture notes and conversion into book form was undertaken by Caltech physicist David L. Goodstein and archivist Judith R. Goodstein. Feynman had given the lecture on the motion of bodies at Caltech on March 13, 1964, but the notes and pictures were lost for a number of years and consequently not included in \"The Feynman Lectures on Physics\" series. The lecture notes were later found, but unfortunately without the photographs of his illustrative chalkboard drawings. One of the editors, David L. Goodstein, stated that at first without the photographs, it was very hard to figure out what diagrams he was referring to in the audiotapes, but a later finding of his own private lecture notes made it possible to understand completely the logical framework with which Feynman delivered the lecture.\n\"You can explain to people who don't know much of the physics, the early history... how Newton discovered... Kepler's Laws, and equal areas, and that means it's toward the sun, and all this stuff. And then the key - they always ask then, \"Well, how do you see that it's an ellipse if it's the inverse square?\" Well, it's God damned hard, there's no question of that. But I tried to find the simplest one I could.\"\n\nIn a non-course lecture delivered to a freshman physics audience, Feynman undertakes to present an elementary, geometric demonstration of Newton's discovery of the fact that Kepler's first observation, that the planets travel in elliptical orbits, is a necessary consequence of Kepler's other two observations.\n\nThe structure of Feynman's lecture:\n\nThe audio recording of the lectures also includes twenty minutes of informal Q&A at the blackboard with students who had attended the lecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "5782826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5782826", "title": "Fractional crystallization (chemistry)", "text": "Fractional crystallization (chemistry)\n\nIn chemistry, fractional crystallization is a method of refining substances based on differences in solubility. It fractionates via differences in crystallization (forming of crystals). If a mixture of two or more substances in solution are allowed to crystallize, for example by allowing the temperature of the solution to decrease or increase, the precipitate will contain more of the least soluble substance. The proportion of components in the precipitate will depend on their solubility products. If the solubility products are very similar, a cascade process will be needed to effectuate a complete separation. \nThis technique is often used in chemical engineering to obtain very pure substances, or to recover saleable products from waste solutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33798412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33798412", "title": "Francisco de Paula Martínez", "text": "Francisco de Paula Martínez\n\nFrancisco de Paula Martínez y Sáez (March 30, 1835 – 1908) was a Spanish zoologist.\n\n"}
{"id": "54823544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54823544", "title": "Gray Brechin", "text": "Gray Brechin\n\nGray A. Brechin (born September 2, 1947) is an American geologist, architectural historian, and English-language author. He is founder, and project scholar, of the Living New Deal Project. Brechin is a frequent and popular speaker, especially on subjects related to the history and legacy of the New Deal and the history of San Francisco.\n\nHis works include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "2341373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2341373", "title": "Hunting hypothesis", "text": "Hunting hypothesis\n\nIn paleoanthropology, the hunting hypothesis is the hypothesis that human evolution was primarily influenced by the activity of hunting for relatively large and fast animals, and that the activity of hunting distinguished human ancestors from other hominins.\n\nWhile it is undisputed that early humans were hunters, the importance of this fact for the final steps in the emergence of the genus \"Homo\" out of earlier australopithecines, with its bipedalism and production of stone tools (from about 2.5 million years ago), and eventually also control of fire (from about 1.5 million years ago), are emphasized in the \"hunting hypothesis\", and de-emphasized in scenarios that stress the omnivore status of humans as their recipe for success, and social interaction, including mating behaviour as essential in the emergence of language and culture.\n\nAdvocates of the hunting hypothesis tend to believe that tool use and toolmaking essential to effective hunting were an extremely important part of human evolution, and trace the origin of language and religion to a hunting context.\n\nAs societal evidence Buss cites that modern tribal population deploy hunting as their primary way of acquiring food. The Aka pygmies in the Central African Republic spend 56% of their quest for nourishment hunting, 27% gathering, and 17% processing food. Additionally, the !Kung in Botswana retain 40% of their calories from hunting and this percentage varies from 20% to 90% depending on the season. For physical evidence Buss first looks to the guts of humans and apes. The human gut consists mainly of the small intestines, which are responsible for the rapid breakdown of proteins and absorption of nutrients. The ape’s gut is primarily colon, which indicates a vegetarian diet. This structural difference supports the hunting hypothesis in being an evolutionary branching point between modern humans and modern primates. Buss also cites human teeth in that fossilized human teeth have a thin enamel coating with very little heavy wear and tear that would result from a plant diet. The absence of thick enamel also indicates that historically humans have maintained a meat-heavy diet. Buss notes that the bones of animals human ancestors killed found at Olduvai Gorge have cut marks at strategic points on the bones that indicate tool usage and provide evidence for ancestral butchers.\n\nAccording to the hunting hypothesis, women are preoccupied with pregnancy and dependent children and so do not hunt because it is dangerous and less profitable. Gijsbert Stoet highlights the fact that men are more competent in throwing skills, focused attention, and spatial abilities. (Experiments 1 and 2). Another possible explanation for women gathering is their inherent prioritization of rearing offspring, which is difficult to uphold if women were hunting.\n\nBuss purports that the hunting hypothesis explains the high level of human male parental investment in offspring as compared to primates. Meat is an economical and condensed food resource in that it can be brought home to feed the young, however it is not efficient to carry low-calorie food across great distances. Thus, the act of hunting and the required transportation of the kill in order to feed offspring is a reasonable explanation for human male provisioning.\n\nBuss suggests that the Hunting hypothesis also explains the advent of strong male coalitions. Although chimpanzees form male-male coalitions, they tend to be temporary and opportunistic. Contrastingly, large game hunters require consistent and coordinated cooperation to succeed in large game hunting. Thus male coalitions were the result of working together to succeed in providing meat for the hunters themselves and their families. Kristen Hawkes suggests further that obtaining resources intended for community consumption increases a male’s fitness by appealing to the male’s society and thus being in the good favor of both males and females. The male relationship would improve hunting success and create alliances for future conflict and the female relationship would improve direct reproductive success. \nBuss proposes alternate explanations of emergence of the strong male coalitions. He suggests that male coalitions may have been the result of group-on-group aggression, defense, and in-group political alliances. This explanation does not support the relationship between male coalitions and hunting.\n\nHawkes proposes that hunters pursue large game and divide the kill across the group. Hunters compete to divvy up the kill to signal courage, power, generosity, prosocial intent, and dedication. By engaging in these activities, hunters receive reproductive benefits and respect. These reproductive benefits lead to greater reproductive success in more skilled hunters. Evidence of these hunting goals that do not only benefit the families of the hunters are in the Ache and Hadza men. Hawkes notes that their hunting techniques are less efficient than alternative methods and are energetically costly, but the men place more importance on displaying their bravery, power, and prosocial intent than on hunting efficiency. This method is different as compared to other societies where hunters retain the control of their kills and signal their intent of sharing. This alternate method aligns with the coalition support hypothesis, in efforts to create and preserve political associations.\n\nThe meat from successful large game hunts are more than what a single hunter can consume. Further, hunting success varies by week. One week a hunter may succeed in hunting large game and the next may return with no meat. In this situation Buss suggests that there are low costs to giving away meat that cannot be eaten by the individual hunter on his own and large benefits from the expectation of the returned favor in a week where his hunting is not successful. Hawkes calls this sharing “tolerated theft” and purports that the benefits of reciprocal altruism stem from the result that families will experience “lower daily variation and higher daily average” in their resources.\n\nProvisioning may actually be a form of sexual competition between males for females. Hawkes suggests that male provisioning is a particularly human behavior, which forges the nuclear family. The structure of familial provisioning determines a form of resource distribution. However, Hawkes does acknowledge inconsistencies across societies and contexts such as the fluctuating time courses dedicated to hunting and gathering, which are not directly correlated with return rates, the fact that nutrition value is often chosen over caloric count, and the fact that meat is a more widely spread resource than other resources.\n\nThe show-off hypothesis is the concept that more successful men have better mate options. The idea relates back to the fact that meat, the result of hunting expeditions, is a distinct resource in that it comes in large quantities that more often than not the hunter’s own family is not able to consume in a timely manner so that the meat doesn’t go sour. Also the success of hunting is unpredictable whereas berries and fruits, unless there is a drought or a bad bush, are fairly consistent in seasonality. Kristen Hawkes argues that women favor neighbors opting for men who provide the advantageous, yet infrequent meat feasts. These women may profit from alliance and the resulting feasts, especially in times of shortage. Hawkes suggests that it would be beneficial for women to reward men who employ the “show-off strategy” by supporting them in a dispute, caring for their offspring, or providing sexual favors. The benefits women may gain from their alignment lie in favored treatment of the offspring spawned by the show-off from neighbors. Buss echoes and cites Hawke’s thoughts on the show-off’s benefits in sexual access, increased likelihood of having children, and the favorable treatment his children would receive from the other members of the society. Hawkes also suggests that show-offs are more likely to live in large groups and thus be less susceptible to predators. Show-offs gain more benefits from just sharing with their family (classical fitness) in the potential favorable treatment from the community and reciprocal altruism from other members of the community.\n\nHawkes uses the Ache people of Paraguay as evidence for the Show-off hypothesis. Food acquired by men was more widely distributed across the community and inconsistent resources that came in large quantities when acquired were also more widely shared.\n\nWhile this is represented in the Ache according to Hawkes, Buss notes that this trend is contradicted in the Hadza who evenly distribute the meat across all members of their population and whose hunters have very little control over the distribution. In the Hadza the show-off hypothesis does not have to do with the resources that result from hunting, but from the prestige and risk that is involved in big game hunting. There are possible circuitous benefits such as protection and defense. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52003847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52003847", "title": "Hyland's", "text": "Hyland's\n\nHyland's is a brand of homeopathic products sold in the United States and Canada. Hyland's operates in the United States as Hyland's Inc and in Canada as Hyland’s Homeopathic Canada Inc and is a division of Standard Homeopathic Co..\n\nThe company was founded in 1903 in Los Angeles as Standard Homeopathic Pharmacy. It was purchased by George H. Hyland in 1910 and the name was changed to Standard Homeopathic Company. Hyland's began selling products in Canada in 1990.\n\nIn 2013, the FDA conducted a review of Hyland's labeling and marketing information which revealed numerous products misbranded in violation of sections 503 and 301 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) [21 U.S.C. §§ 353 and 331]. This review included the products for \"Infant Earache Drops,\" \"Restful Legs,\" \"Teething Tablets,\" and other products. The products are marketed as over-the-counter for diagnoses and treatments that require a physician's consultation.\n\nIn 2004, Hyland's Teething Tablets were the second most popular teething product.\n\nThe FDA warned consumers about Hyland's teething products in 2010, citing concern over the toxicity of its belladonna ingredient and lack of child proof caps. Hyland's voluntarily recalled its Hyland's Teething Tablets product after the 2010 warning in both the US and Canada. Hyland's began selling a reformulated version of the product with a child proof cap in 2011.\n\nIn 2016, Hyland's indicated it would stop selling its Hyland's Teething Tablets product in the U.S. after the FDA claimed it received reports of 10 child deaths and 400 adverse effects associated with the product. Hyland's calls the FDA's claims unsubstantiated. Hyland's suggests other possible causes, noting possible allergies and citing articles listing possible causes of seizures in children unrelated to the formulation of its product. The FDA confirmed in 2017 that inconsistent and sometimes excessive levels of belladonna had been found in the product.\n"}
{"id": "42928707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42928707", "title": "Isentropic expansion waves", "text": "Isentropic expansion waves\n\nIsentropic expansion waves are created when a supersonic flow is redirected along a curved surface. These waves are studied to obtain a relation between deflection angle and Mach number. Each wave in this case is a Mach wave, so it is at an angle formula_1 , where M is the Mach number immediately before the wave. Expansion waves are divergent because as the flow expands the value of Mach number increases, thereby decreasing the Mach angle.\n\nIn an isentropic wave, the speed changes from formula_2 to formula_3, with deflection formula_4. We have oriented the coordinate system orthogonal to the wave. We write the basic (continuity, momentum and 1st, 2nd law of thermodynamics) equations for this infinitesimal control volume.\n\nAssumptions:\n\nThe continuity equation is,\n\nformula_5 ...(1.1)\n\nFirst term is zero by assumption(1).\n\nNow we consider the momentum equation for normal and tangential to shock.\n\nFor formula_8- component, \n\nSecond term of L.H.S and first term of R.H.S are zero due to assumption (2) and (1) respectively.\n\nThen,\n\nOr using continuity,\n\nExpanding and simplifying [Using the facts that, to the first order, in the limit as formula_12, formula_13 and formula_14], we obtain\n\nWe skip the analysis of the formula_19-component of the momentum and move on to the first law of thermodynamics, which is\n\nFirst term of L.H.S,next three terms of L.H.S and first term of R.H.S are zero due to assumption (3),(4) and (1) respectively.\n\nwhere,\n\nFor our control volume we obtain\n\nThis may be simplified as\n\nExpanding and simplifying in the limit to first order, we get\n\nIf we confine to ideal gases, formula_25 , so\n\nAbove equation relates the differential changes in velocity and temperature. We can derive a relation between formula_27 and formula_2 using formula_29. Differentiating (and dividing the left hand side by formula_2 and the right by formula_31 ),\n\nUsing equation 1.6\n\nHence,\n\nCombining (1.4) and (1.7)\n\nWe generally apply the above equation to negative formula_37, let formula_38. We can integrate this between the initial and final Mach numbers of given flow, but it will be more convenient to integrate from a reference state, the critical speed (formula_39) to Mach number formula_27, with formula_41 arbitrarily set to zero at formula_39,\n\nLeading to Prandtl-Meyer supersonic expansion function,\n\n \n"}
{"id": "5259953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259953", "title": "Jeremy Walsh (astronomer)", "text": "Jeremy Walsh (astronomer)\n\nJeremy R. Walsh is an astronomer working for the Space Telescope European Coordinating Facility (ST-ECF) where he is leading the Advanced Data Products group. His background is mostly in astronomical spectroscopy and he supports slitless spectroscopy with Hubble Space Telescope (HST).\n\nHis research concentrates on planetary nebulae, extra-galactic H II regions, emission line galaxies, polarimetry, spectropolarimetry and analysis software, such as for long slit spectral extraction.\n\n"}
{"id": "33789760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33789760", "title": "Johan Emil Aro", "text": "Johan Emil Aro\n\nJohan Emil Aro (1874–1928) was a Finnish entomologist.\n\nAro was a school teacher in Viborg . He worked mainly on Ephemeroptera.\n\nPartial list\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58445898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58445898", "title": "Joni Wallis", "text": "Joni Wallis\n\nJoni Wallis is a cognitive neurophysiologist and Professor in the Department of Psychology at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nWallis received her Bachelors of Science in Psychology and Neuroscience from the University of Manchester in 1995. She received her PhD in Experimental Psychology and Anatomy from the University of Cambridge, where she worked in the laboratory of .\n\nWallis moved to the United States for her postdoctoral research fellowship in the laboratory of Earl K. Miller studying neuronal activity in the prefrontal cortex, or the region of the brain that plays a key role in executive functions, which allow animals to coordinate appropriate responses to plan, reason, problem solve, and effectively reach goals. There, she explored the neural basis of how the prefrontal cortex encodes abstract rules to inform decisions under different circumstances.\n\nWallis's research centers on understanding how the frontal cortex of the brain is functionally organized to help people set and attain goals at the level of single neurons. Decision making requires weighing the costs and benefits of different courses of action. Wallis's group has investigated how cost-benefit analysis is undertaken in the brain to make effective decisions by monitoring single neuronal activity. They trained monkeys to make decisions that required integrating reward that required a certain amount of effort cost or a certain amount of delay cost. They found that single prefrontal cortex neurons played a role in encoding the type of cost decision the monkeys faced. The finding built on Wallis's previous work that found individual neurons in this region encoded several decision attributes, such as the probability of reward, the magnitude of the reward, and how much effort that reward would require. Her research group also found that neurons involved in associating stimuli with certain rewarding outcomes are found in the orbitofrontal cortex, while neurons involved in associating actions with certain rewarding outcomes are found in the anterior cingulate cortex.\n\nWallis's group has also studied the dynamics of decision making in both humans and monkeys over the period of time over which they are making a particular decision. Using primate neurophysiology and human magnetoencephalography, they measured how brain activity changed as primates and humans were making different decisions. Their findings were consistent with a mathematical model of decision making, drawing connections between economic models of choice and the underlying neuroscience. In a different study, Wallis's group was able to deduce neuronal signatures as the brains of monkeys evaluate different choices, tracking the dynamics of neurons firing over time and space in the orbitofrontal cortex of the brain. When considering two options, the group of neurons associated with each of the two options would alternate firing, flipping back and forth between the two options before finally deciding.\n\nHer research is currently supported by two Research Project Grants (R01) awarded by the National Institute of Mental Health — one for the \"Functional Architecture of the Oribitofrontal Cortex\" awarded in 2014 and the other for the \"Frontostriatal Rhythms Underlying Reinforcement Learning\" awarded in 2018. The ultimate goal of her group's work is to better understand how to develop treatments for mental illness. She was first drawn to the field after her PhD supervisor introduced her to patients who sustained damage to their orbitofrontal cortex and had difficulty making decisions, despite having other cognitive processes intact.\n"}
{"id": "54741670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54741670", "title": "Kleinite", "text": "Kleinite\n\nKleinite is a rare mineral that has only been found in the United States and Germany that occurs in hydrothermal mercury deposits. It occurs associated with calcite, gypsum and (rarely) barite or calomel. Its color can range from pale yellow/canary yellow to orange, and it is transparent to translucent. As a photosensitive mineral, its coloration darkens when exposed to light.\n\nIt has been hypothesized that kleinite formed through a \"reaction of cinnabar with oxidized meteoric water\", with this reaction being the source of kleinite's nitrogen.\n\nKleinite is named after Carl Klein (1842–1907), who was a professor of mineralogy at the University of Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "27287752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27287752", "title": "List of Apple printers", "text": "List of Apple printers\n\nApple has produced several lines of printers in its history, but no longer produces or supports these devices today. Though some early products use thermal technology, Apple's products can be broadly divided into three lines: ImageWriter (dot matrix), LaserWriter (PostScript laser), and StyleWriter (thermal inkjet).\n\nApple's first printer release was the Apple Silentype, released in June 1979, shortly after the Apple II Plus. The Silentype was a thermal printer, which used a special paper and provided 80 column output. Also compatible with the Apple III, the Silentype was a rebranded Trendcom 200.\n\nThe Apple Dot Matrix Printer (often shortened to Apple DMP) is a printer manufactured by C. Itoh and sold under Apple label in 1982 for the Apple II series, Lisa, and the Apple III. Apple followed this release with a Qume daisy wheel engine, the Apple Letter Quality Printer (also known as the Apple Daisy Wheel Printer), in January 1983. This printer could print at forty characters per second. Also in 1983, Apple released its only plotter, the Apple Color Plotter. This printer moved and rotated four color pens along the horizontal axis, the device moving the paper into order to allow its pens to render along the vertical axis. The Apple Scribe Printer was a thermal transfer printer, first introduced in 1984 alongside the Apple IIc for a relatively low retail price, and compatible with the Apple IIe computer.\n\nThe LaserWriter was a laser printer with built-in PostScript interpreter introduced by Apple in 1985. It was one of the first laser printers available to the mass market. In combination with WYSIWYG publishing software like PageMaker, that operated on top of the graphical user interface of Macintosh computers, the LaserWriter was a key component at the beginning of the desktop publishing revolution.\n\nThe StyleWriter was the first of Apple's line of inkjet serial printers, targeted mainly towards consumers. They produced print quality that was better than the dot matrix ImageWriters, and were cheaper than the LaserWriters. All but a few models contained Canon print engines, a few were rebadged Canon printers, while the last few were rebadged HP DeskJet printers.\n\nThe Apple Color Printer was the first color inkjet printer sold by Apple. Introduced in 1993 alongside the StyleWriter II, it was a rebadged Canon BJC-820 printer. Its maximum resolution was 360 DPI and connected to the computer via SCSI. Unlike many inkjet printers of the time, the Apple Color Printer did not suffer from print slowdowns caused by slow communication from the computer performing rasterization, since the SCSI bus is relatively fast. The model was discontinued in 1994 when Apple introduced the Color StyleWriter series of printers.\n\n"}
{"id": "13796169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13796169", "title": "List of Delaware state symbols", "text": "List of Delaware state symbols\n\nThe following Delaware state symbols have been approved by the Delaware General Assembly and added to the Delaware Code:\n\nThe official colors are colonial blue and buff\n\nThe seal of Delaware was first adopted on January 17, 1777, with the current version being adopted April 29, 2004. It contains the state coat of arms surrounded by the inscription \"Great Seal of the State of Delaware\" and the dates 1704, 1776 and 1787.\n\nThe flag of Delaware was first adopted on July 24, 1913. It consists of a buff-colored diamond on a field of colonial blue, with the coat of arms of the state of Delaware inside the diamond. Below the diamond, the date December 7, 1787, declares the day on which Delaware became the first state to ratify the United States Constitution. The colors of the flag reflect the colors of the uniform of General George Washington.\n\nThe strawberry was adopted as the state fruit in 2010.\n\nPeach custard pie was adopted as the state dessert in 2009.\n\"Liberty and Independence\" was approved in 1847, and derived from the Order of Cincinnati.\n\n\"Our Delaware\" was first adopted in 1925. It is a poem containing three verses written by George B. Hynson, a fourth verse written by Donn Devine, and a musical score composed by Will M. S. Brown.\n\nThis nickname was officially adopted on May 23, 2002, to commemorate the fact that on December 7, 1787, Delaware became the first of the 13 original states to ratify the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThis nickname comes from the legend that Thomas Jefferson described Delaware as a jewel among states due to its strategic location on the Eastern Seaboard.\n\nThis nickname comes from the fighting Blue Hen cocks that were carried with soldiers for entertainment during the Revolutionary War.\n\nThis nickname comes from substantial contributions Delaware has made as compared to its relatively small size.\n\nSome residents of states that were also formerly part of the 13 original colonies have given this name to Delaware as a parody or insult to its classic nickname \"The First State.\"\n\nThe Delaware Blue Hen was officially adopted on April 14, 1939, having been used as many political campaigns and publications.\n\nThe American holly (\"Ilex opaca\") was officially adopted May 1, 1939, regarded as one of Delaware's most important forest trees.\n\nThe peach blossom was officially adopted on May 9, 1895, in recognition of peach tree orchards yielding thousands of dollars worth of crop worth at that time.\n\nThe lady bug was officially adopted April 25, 1974, at the suggestion of Mollie Brown-Rust's 2nd grade class at the Lulu M. Ross Elementary School in Milford, Delaware.\n\nSillimanite was recognized by geologists in Delaware prior to 1830, is widespread throughout the schists of the Delaware Piedmont, and occurs as large masses and steam-rounded boulders at the Brandywine Springs State Park.\n\nThe weakfish (\"Cynoscion regalis\") was officially adopted in 1981 in recognition of its values as a game and food fish.\n\nMilk was officially adopted on June 3, 1983.\n\nSweet goldenrod (\"Solidago odora\") was officially adopted June 24, 1996, as indigenous to the state, commonly found in coastal areas and along the edges of marshes and thickets.\n\nBelemnite was officially adopted on July 2, 1996, at the suggestion of Kathy Tidball's third grade Quest students at Martin Luther King, Jr. Elementary School in Wilmington, Delaware. The fossil, an extinct squid with a conical shell, is commonly found along the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal.\n\nThe eastern tiger swallowtail (\"Pterourus glaucus\") was officially adopted on June 10, 1999, as indigenous to Delaware and commonly found in deciduous woods, along streams, rivers, and wooded swamps, and in towns and cities throughout Delaware. They were chosen based on a statewide vote of public and parochial students, out of suggestions from students of the Richardson Park Learning Center.\n\nGreenwich loam was officially adopted on April 20, 2000, as commonly found in all counties in Delaware and enhancing water quality, agriculture, wildlife habitat, and natural landscape beauty.\n\nThe Delaware Diamond (coordinates of right ascension 9h40m44s and declination 48°14’2”) was officially adopted on June 30, 2000, as a star of the 12th magnitude and the first star on the International Star Registry ever to be registered to an American state. It was chosen in a 1999 Delaware Museum of Natural History contest by Amy Nerlinger of Wilmington.\n\nThe horseshoe crab (\"Limulus polyphemus\") was officially adopted on June 25, 2002, in recognition of its importance and value in the medical field and as the principal food source for more than a million shore birds.\n\nThe stonefly (order Plecoptera) was officially adopted on May 4, 2005, in recognition of the importance of excellent water quality and the vital role played by healthy aquatic ecosystems. It was supported by Gunning-Bedford Middle School, Salesianum High School, Delcastle Technical High School, Dickinson High School Environmental Club, The Independence School, Springer Middle School, St. Andrews School, and The Charter School of Wilmington.\n\"Grey fox\" (\"Urocyon cinereoargenteus\") was adopted as the state wildlife animal in 2010.\n\nThe Kalmar Nyckel was adopted in 2016 as the state tall ship, serving \"as Delaware’s seagoing ambassador both at home and at many ports of call, raising awareness of the First State for thousands who see her and come on board.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1770735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1770735", "title": "List of ECMAScript engines", "text": "List of ECMAScript engines\n\nAn ECMAScript engine is a program that executes source code written in a version of the ECMAScript language standard, for example, JavaScript.\n\nThese are new generation ECMAScript engines for web browsers, all implementing just-in-time compilation (JIT) or variations of that idea. The performance benefits for just-in-time compilation make it much more suitable for web applications written in JavaScript.\n\n\nThe following engines use runtime interpreters, which do not compile into native machine code and generally run more slowly:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9025384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9025384", "title": "List of UN numbers 3201 to 3300", "text": "List of UN numbers 3201 to 3300\n\nThe UN numbers from UN3201 to UN3300 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "3236500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3236500", "title": "List of international business journals", "text": "List of international business journals\n\nThe following is a list of major and notable scholarly journals in international business. The list is not comprehensive, as there are many other journals that are published. The list contains most of the prominent journals in the field. \n"}
{"id": "11595948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11595948", "title": "Manufacture d'horlogerie", "text": "Manufacture d'horlogerie\n\nThe \"Dictionnaire professionnel illustree de l'horlogerie\" (The Illustrated Professional Dictionary of the Watchmaking Industry) defines \"manufacture\" as follows: \n\nIn the Swiss watch industry the term \"manufacture\" is used of a factory in which watches are manufactured almost completely, as distinct from an \"atelier de terminage\", which is concerned only with assembling, timing, fitting the hands and casing.\nThe concept of \"manufacture\" in the Swiss watch making industry refers to any firm that at least designs calibres, produces the movements parts thereof called ébauches, and assembles them into watches. For example, a company that does not manufacture crystals (the watch glass) or hairsprings may still be regarded as a \"manufacture\".\n\nThe following companies produce whole watches, including cases and movements:\n\n"}
{"id": "52708127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52708127", "title": "Michael Ian Bruce", "text": "Michael Ian Bruce\n\nProfessor Michael Ian Bruce DSc FAA (1938-), born and educated in England, became Professor of Physical and Inorganic Chemistry at the University of Adelaide in 1973, and was the Angas Professor of Chemistry at the University of Adelaide from 1982 until his retirement in 2009. He was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of Science in 1989.\n"}
{"id": "13627129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13627129", "title": "Mysterium Magnum", "text": "Mysterium Magnum\n\nMysterium Magnum is Latin for \"great mystery\" and has several different associations and usages. \n\nParacelsus and other alchemists employed the term \"Mysterium Magnum\" to denote primordial undifferentiated matter, from which all the Classical Elements sprang, sometimes compared with Brahman, aether and akasha.\n\nJakob Böhme (1575–November 17, 1624) a German Christian mystic wrote a treatise entitled \"The Mysterium Magnum\" (1623). \n\n\"Mysterium Magnum\" is often employed in Christian theology as a euphemism for \"sacrament\". \n\n"}
{"id": "35123529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35123529", "title": "Outline of applied physics", "text": "Outline of applied physics\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to applied physics:\n\nApplied physics – physics intended for a particular technological or practical use. \nIt is usually considered as a bridge or a connection between \"pure\" physics and engineering.\n\nApplied physics can be described as all of the following:\n\n\nFields and areas of research include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3697414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3697414", "title": "Philosophical anthropology", "text": "Philosophical anthropology\n\nPhilosophical anthropology, sometimes called anthropological philosophy, is a discipline dealing with questions of metaphysics and phenomenology of the human person, and interpersonal relationships.\n\nAugustine of Hippo was one of the first Christian ancient Latin authors with a very clear anthropological vision, although it is not clear if he had any influence on Max Scheler, the founder of philosophical anthropology as an independent discipline, nor on any of the major philosophers that followed him. Augustine has been cited by Husserl and Heidegger as one of the early writers to inquire on time-consciousness and the role of \"seeing\" in the feeling of \"Being-in-the-world\".\n\nAugustine saw the human being as a perfect unity of two substances: soul and body. He was much closer in this anthropological view to Aristotle than to Plato. In his late treatise sec. 5 (420 CE) he insisted that the body is essential part of the human person:\n\nAugustine's favourite figure to describe \"body-soul\" unity is marriage: \"caro tua, coniux tua – your body is your wife\". Initially, the two elements were in perfect harmony. After the fall of humanity they are now experiencing dramatic combat between one another.\n\nThey are two categorically different things: the body is a three-dimensional object composed of the four elements, whereas the soul has no spatial dimensions. Soul is a kind of substance, participating in reason, fit for ruling the body. Augustine was not preoccupied, as Plato and Descartes were, with going too much into detail in his efforts to explain the metaphysics of the soul-body union. It sufficed for him to admit that they were metaphysically distinct. To be a human is to be a composite of soul and body, and that the soul is superior to the body. The latter statement is grounded in his hierarchical classification of things into those that merely exist, those that exist and live, and those that exist, live, and have intelligence or reason.\n\nAccording to N. Blasquez, Augustine's dualism of substances of the body and soul doesn't stop him from seeing the unity of body and soul as a substance itself. Following Aristotle and other ancient philosophers, he defined man as a \"rational mortal animal\" – \"animal rationale mortale\".\n\nPhilosophical anthropology as a kind of thought, before it was founded as a distinct philosophical discipline in the 1920s, emerged as post-medieval thought striving for emancipation from Christian religion and Aristotelic tradition. The origin of this liberation, characteristic of modernity, has been the Cartesian skepticism formulated by Descartes in the first two of his \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" (1641).\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) taught the first lectures on anthropology in the European academic world. He specifically developed a conception of \"pragmatic anthropology\", according to which the human being is studied as a free agent. At the same time, he conceived of his anthropology as an empirical, not a strictly philosophical discipline. Both his philosophical and his anthropological work has been one of the influences in the field during the 19th and 20th century. After Kant, Ludwig Feuerbach is sometimes considered the next most important influence and founder of anthropological philosophy.\n\nDuring the 19th century, an important contribution came from post-kantian German idealists like Fichte, Schelling and Hegel, as well from Søren Kierkegaard.\n\nSince its development in the 1920s, in the milieu of Germany Weimar culture, philosophical anthropology has been turned into a philosophical discipline, competing with the other traditional sub-disciplines of epistemology, ethics, metaphysics, aesthetics. It is the attempt to unify disparate ways of understanding behaviour of humans as both creatures of their social environments and creators of their own values. Although the majority of philosophers throughout the history of philosophy can be said to have a distinctive \"anthropology\" that undergirds their thought, philosophical anthropology itself, as a \"specific discipline\" in philosophy, arose within the later modern period as an outgrowth from developing methods in philosophy, such as phenomenology and existentialism. The former, which draws its energy from methodical reflection on human experience (first person perspective) as from the philosopher's own personal experience, naturally aided the emergence of philosophical explorations of human nature and the human condition.\n\nMax Scheler, from 1900 till 1920 had been a follower of Husserl's phenomenology, the hegemonic form of philosophy in Germany at the time. Scheler sought to apply Husserl's phenomenological approach to different topics. From 1920 Scheler laid the foundation for philosophical anthropology as a philosophical discipline, competing with phenomenology and other philosophic disciplines. Husserl and Martin Heidegger (1889–1976), were the two most authoritative philosophers in Germany at the time, and their criticism to philosophical anthropology and Scheler have had a major impact on the discipline.\n\nScheler defined the human being not so much as a \"rational animal\" (as has traditionally been the case since Aristotle) but essentially as a loving being. He breaks down the traditional hylomorphic conception of the human person, and describes the personal being with a tripartite structure of lived body, soul, and spirit. Love and hatred are not psychological emotions, but spiritual, intentional acts of the person, which he categorises as \"intentional feelings.\" Scheler based his philosophical anthropology in a Christian metaphysics of the spirit. Helmuth Plessner would later emancipate philosophical anthropology from Christianity.\n\nHelmuth Plessner and Arnold Gehlen have been influenced by Scheler, and they are the three major representatives of philosophical anthropology as a movement.\n\nErnst Cassirer, a neo-Kantian philosopher, has been the most influential source for the definition and development of the field from the 1940s till the 1960s. Particularly influential has been Cassirer's description of man as a \"symbolic animal\", which has been reprised in the 1960s by Gilbert Durand, scholar of symbolic anthropology and the imaginary.\n\nIn 1953, future pope Karol Wojtyla based his dissertation thesis on Max Scheler, limiting himself to the works Scheler wrote before rejecting Catholicism and the Judeo-Christian tradition in 1920. Wojtyla used Scheler as an example that phenomenology could be reconciled with Catholicism. Some authors have argued that Wojtyla influenced philosophical anthropology.\n\nIn the 20th century, other important contributors and influences to philosophical anthropology have been Paul Häberlin (1878–1960), Martin Buber (1878–1965), E.R. Dodds (1893–1979), Hans-Georg Gadamer (1900–2002), Eric Voegelin (1901–85), Hans Jonas (1903–93), Josef Pieper (1904–97), Hans-Eduard Hengstenberg (1904–98), Jean-Paul Sartre (1905–80), Joseph Maréchal (1878–1944), Maurice Merleau-Ponty (1908–61), Paul Ricoeur (1913–2005), René Girard (1923–2015), Alasdair MacIntyre (1929–), Pierre Bourdieu (1930–2002), Hans Blumenberg, Jacques Derrida (1930–2004), Emerich Coreth (1919–2006), Leonardo Polo (1926–2013).\n\nA large focus of philosophical anthropology is also interpersonal relationships, as an attempt to unify disparate ways of understanding the behaviour of humans as both creatures of their social environments and creators of their own values. It analyses also the ontology that is in play in human relationships – of which intersubjectivity is a major theme. Intersubjectivity is the study of how two individuals, subjects, whose experiences and interpretations of the world are radically different understand and relate to each other.\n\nRecently anthropology has begun to shift towards studies of intersubjectivity and other existential/phenomenological themes. Studies of language have also gained new prominence in philosophy and sociology due to language's close ties with the question of intersubjectivity.\n\nThe academic Michael D. Jackson is another important philosophical anthropologist. His research and fieldwork concentrate on existential themes of \"being in the world\" (\"Dasein\") as well as interpersonal relationships. His methodology challenges traditional anthropology due to its focus on first-person experience. In his most well known book, \"Minima Ethnographica\" which focuses on intersubjectivity and interpersonal relationships, he draws upon his ethnographic fieldwork in order to explore existential theory.\n\nIn his latest book, \"Existential Anthropology\", he explores the notion of control, stating that humans anthropomorphize inanimate objects around them in order to enter into an interpersonal relationship with them. In this way humans are able to feel as if they have control over situations that they cannot control because rather than treating the object as an object, they treat it as if it is a rational being capable of understanding their feelings and language. Good examples are prayer to gods to alleviate drought or to help a sick person or cursing at a computer that has ceased to function.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9055893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9055893", "title": "PlanetQuest", "text": "PlanetQuest\n\nPlanetQuest is NASA's education and public outreach program centered on the science and technology of NASA’s long-term search for habitable planets beyond our solar system.\n\nMajor components of the PlanetQuest outreach program include:\n\nBegun in January 2002 and based at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, PlanetQuest is funded by the Exoplanet Exploration Program, a long-term suite of NASA missions designed to detect and characterize of Earth-like planets. The main components of Navigator include two ground-based and two space based missions:\n\nOn Earth:\nIn space:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49452645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49452645", "title": "Rectangulus", "text": "Rectangulus\n\nThe rectangulus was an astronomical instrument made by Richard of Wallingford around 1326. Dissatisfied with the limitations of existing astrolabes, Richard developed the rectangulus as an instrument for spherical trigonometry and to measure the angles between planets and other astronomical bodies. This was one of a number of instruments he created, including the \"Albion\", a form of equatorium, and a famously complicated and expensive horologium (astronomical clock).\n\nHis \"Tractus Rectanguli\", describing the rectangulus, was an influential text in medieval astronomy and at least thirty copies were known to survive. His \"Quadripartitum\" was the first text on spherical trigonometry to be published in Western Europe.\n\nThe rectangulus was a form of skeleton torquetum. This was a series of nested angular scales, so that measurements in azimuth and elevation could be made directly in polar coordinates, relative to the ecliptic. Conversion from these coordinates though was difficult, involving what was the leading mathematics of the day. The rectangulus was an analogue computing device to simplify this: instead of measuring in angular measurements it could resolve the angles to Cartesian components directly. This then simplified the further calculations.\n\nThe rectangulus was constructed as a brass pillar with a number of linear scales hinged above it. Pinhole sights on the upper arm allowed it to be pointed accurately at the astronomical target. Plumb bob lines descended from the scales above and intersected with linear scales marked on the horizontal scales below. These allowed measures to be read, not as angles, but as trigonometric ratios.\n\nTo celebrate the 600th anniversary of the Rectangulus in 1926 a replica was constructed. This is now in the Museum of the History of Science, Oxford.\n"}
{"id": "25929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25929", "title": "Regiomontanus", "text": "Regiomontanus\n\nJohannes Müller von Königsberg (6 June 1436 – 6 July 1476), better known as Regiomontanus (), was a mathematician and astronomer of the German Renaissance, active in Vienna, Buda and Nuremberg. His contributions were instrumental in the development of Copernican heliocentrism in the decades following his death.\n\nRegiomontanus wrote under the Latinized name of \"Ioannes de Monteregio\" (or \"Monte Regio\"; \"Regio Monte\"); the adjectival \"Regiomontanus\" was first used by Philipp Melanchthon in 1534. He is named after Königsberg in Lower Franconia, not the larger Königsberg (modern Kaliningrad) in Prussia.\n\nAt eleven years of age, Regiomontanus became a student at the University of Leipzig, Saxony. In 1451 he continued his studies at Alma Mater Rudolfina, the university in Vienna, Austria. There he became a pupil and friend of Georg von Peuerbach. In 1452 he was awarded the bachelor degree (\"baccalaureus\"), and he was awarded his \"magister artium\" (Master of Arts) at the age of 21 in 1457. It is known that he held lectures in optics and ancient literature.\n\nRegiomontanus continued to work with Peuerbach learning and extending the then known areas of astronomy, mathematics and instrument making until Peuerbach's death in 1461.\n\nIn 1460 the papal legate Basilios Bessarion came to Vienna on a diplomatic mission. Being a humanist scholar and great fan of the mathematical sciences, Bessarion sought out Peuerbach's company. George of Trebizond who was Bessarion's philosophical rival had recently produced a new Latin translation of Ptolemy's \"Almagest\" from the Greek, which Bessarion, correctly, regarded as inaccurate and badly translated, so he asked Peuerbach to produce a new one. Peuerbach's Greek was not good enough to do a translation but he knew the \"Almagest\" intimately so instead he started work on a modernised, improved abridgement of the work. Bessarion also invited Peuerbach to become part of his household and to accompany him back to Italy when his work in Vienna was finished. Peuerbach accepted the invitation on the condition that Regiomontanus could also accompany them. However Peuerbach fell ill in 1461 and died only having completed the first six books of his abridgement of the \"Almagest\". On his death bed Peuerbach made Regiomontanus promise to finish the book and publish it.\n\nIn 1461 Regiomontanus left Vienna with Bessarion and spent the next four years travelling around Northern Italy as a member of Bessarion's household, looking for and copying mathematical and astronomical manuscripts for Bessarion, who possessed the largest private library in Europe at the time. Regiomontanus also made the acquaintance of the leading Italian mathematicians of the age such as Giovanni Bianchini and Paolo dal Pozzo Toscanelli who had also been friends of Peuerbach during his prolonged stay in Italy more than twenty years earlier.\n\nHe went to work for János Vitéz, archbishop of Esztergom. There he calculated extensive astronomical tables and built astronomical instruments. \nIn 1467 he went to Buda, and the court of Matthias Corvinus of Hungary, for whom he built an astrolabe, and where he collated Greek manuscripts for a handsome salary.\nThe tables that he created while living in Hungary, his \"Tabulae directionum\", were designed for astrology, including finding astrological houses.\n\nIn 1471 Regiomontanus moved to the Free City of Nuremberg, in Franconia, then one of the Empire's important seats of learning, publication, commerce and art, where he worked with the humanist and merchant Bernhard Walther. Here he founded the world's first scientific printing press, and in 1472 he published the first printed astronomical textbook, the \"Theoricae novae Planetarum\" of his teacher Georg von Peurbach.\n\nRegiomontanus and Bernhard Walther observed the comet of 1472. Regiomontanus tried to estimate its distance from Earth, using the angle of parallax. According to David A. Seargeant:\n\nThe 1472 comet was visible from Christmas Day 1471 to 1 March 1472 (Julian Calendar), a total of 59 days.\n\nIn 1475, Regiomontanus was called to Rome by Pope Sixtus IV on to work on the planned calendar reform. Sixtus promised substantial rewards, including the title of bishop of Regensburg.\nOn his way to Rome, stopping in Venice, he commissioned the publication of his \"Calendarium\" with Erhard Ratdolt (printed in 1476). \nRegiomontanus reached Rome, but he died there after only a few months, in his 41st year, on 6 July 1476. \nAccording to a rumor repeated by Gassendi in his Regiomontanus biography, he was poisoned by relatives of George of Trebizond whom he had criticized in his writing; it is however considered more likely that he died from the plague.\n\nDuring his time in Italy he completed Peuerbach's \"Almagest\" abridgement, \"Epytoma in almagesti Ptolemei\". In 1464, he completed \"De Triangulis omnimodis\". \"De Triangulis\" (On Triangles) was one of the first textbooks presenting the current state of trigonometry and included lists of questions for review of individual chapters. In it he wrote:\n\nHis work on arithmetic and algebra, \"Algorithmus Demonstratus\", was among the first containing symbolic algebra. In 1465, he built a portable sundial for Pope Paul II.\n\nIn \"Epytoma in almagesti Ptolemei\", he critiqued the translation of \"Almagest\" by George of Trebizond, pointing out inaccuracies. Later Nicolaus Copernicus would refer to this book as an influence on his own work.\n\nA prolific author, Regiomontanus was internationally famous in his lifetime. Despite having completed only a quarter of what he had intended to write, he left a substantial body of work. Nicolaus Copernicus' teacher, Domenico Maria Novara da Ferrara, referred to Regiomontanus as having been his own teacher. There is speculation that Regiomontanus had arrived at a theory of heliocentrism before he died; a manuscript shows particular attention to the heliocentric theory of the Pythagorean Aristarchus, mention was also given to the motion of the earth in a letter to a friend.\n\nMuch of the material on spherical trigonometry in Regiomontanus' \"On Triangles\" was taken directly from the twelfth-century work of Jabir ibn Aflah otherwise known as Geber, as noted in the sixteenth century by Gerolamo Cardano.\n\nRegiomontanus designed his own astrological house system, which became one of the most popular systems in Europe.\n\nIn 1561, Daniel Santbech compiled a collected edition of the works of Regiomontanus, \"De triangulis planis et sphaericis libri quinque\" (first published in 1533) and \"Compositio tabularum sinum recto\", as well as Santbech's own \"Problematum astronomicorum et geometricorum sectiones septem\". It was published in Basel by Henrich Petri and Petrus Perna.\n\nThere is an image of him in Hartmann Schedel's 1493 \"Nuremberg Chronicle\". He is holding an astrolabe. Yet, although there are thirteen illustrations of comets in the \"'Chronicle\" (from 471 to 1472), they are stylized, rather than representing the actual objects. \n\nThe crater Regiomontanus on the Moon is named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25858244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25858244", "title": "Saint Petersburg State University Institute of Chemistry", "text": "Saint Petersburg State University Institute of Chemistry\n\nThe Faculty of Chemistry (since 2014 The Institute of Chemistry) at Saint Petersburg State University is one of the leading chemistry faculties in Russia.\n\nFormally, the Department of Chemistry has been created as a separate entity of Saint Petersburg State University (then Leningrad State University) in 1929. However, the history of chemistry at Saint Petersburg State University began much earlier. First chemistry laboratory and lectures in chemistry were introduced at the University in 1833. One of the first professors of chemistry was Alexander Voskresensky, a doctoral student of Justus von Liebig. Voskresensky largely contributed to the growth of chemistry classes at the University. He initiated lectures in organic chemistry (1843) and promoted first scientific projects. Later, in 1868, the chemistry division hosted then by the Department of Physics and Mathematics was split into three to form the division of organic chemistry led by Aleksandr Butlerov, the division of inorganic chemistry led by Dmitri Mendeleev and the division of analytical chemistry led by Nikolai Menshutkin. Since then, the University of Saint-Petersburg became home to one of the most elite chemistry schools in the country. Many prominent Russian chemists began their career and/or worked there. Among them are Nikolay Zinin, Alexey Favorsky, Lev Aleksandrovich Chugaev, Dmitry Konovalov, Sergei Vasiljevich Lebedev, Vyacheslav Tishchenko, Vladimir Ipatieff, Nikolay Semyonov, Boris Nikolsky, Mikhail Shultz.\n\nIn the Soviet era, the Department of Chemistry continued to grow with new divisions: colloid chemistry (1939), electrochemistry (1940), chemistry of macromolecular compounds (1944), radiochemistry (1945), physical organic chemistry (1946), theory of solutions (1950), chemistry of natural compounds (1963), quantum chemistry (1967), solid state chemistry (1978).\n\nHistorically, some of the first chemistry offices were located in the main building of Saint Petersburg State University called Twelve Collegia. The remainder of these is the Mendeleev museum located on the first floor of the central part of this enormous building. In the 20th century, the Department of Chemistry was headquartered at 41/43 Sredniy prospekt on Vasilievsky Island, about one mile west of Twelve Collegia. In the 1980s, most of the laboratories were relocated to a more spacious building in the newly constructed campus in the suburb of Peterhof.\n\nCurrently, there are 14 scientific divisions in the chemistry department:\n\n"}
{"id": "32863360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32863360", "title": "Texture advection", "text": "Texture advection\n\nIn scientific visualization, texture advection is a family of methods to densely visualize vector fields or flows (like the wind movement of a tornado). Scientists can use the created images and animations to better understand these flows and reason about them. \nIn comparison to techniques that visualise streamlines, streaklines, or timelines, methods of this family don't need any seed points and can produce a whole image at every step.\n\nThe methods have in common that they bend a whole image (or texture) according to the flow to create a new image that is warped by the flow. If that is done in small enough time steps and often enough, the images can be combined to create an animation visualising the flow.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23379410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23379410", "title": "ULAS J133553.45+113005.2", "text": "ULAS J133553.45+113005.2\n\nULAS J133553.45+113005.2 (also called ULAS1335) is a T-type brown dwarf in the constellation of Virgo. It was discovered in data from the UK Infrared Telescope (UKIRT) Infrared Deep Sky Survey (UKIDSS) Large Area Survey (LAS). Its discovery was reported June 2008.\n\nAfter identification, ULAS1335 was imaged using the UFTI camera on the UKIRT, on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, to confirm its photometric properties and location. It was spectroscopically confirmed as a T9 dwarf using the Gemini North telescope, also at Mauna Kea, and was imaged using IRAC on the Spitzer Space Telescope. The IRAC imaging confirmed it as the reddest (in near-to-mid infrared colors) T dwarf yet discovered, and by inference the coolest.\n\nULAS1334 was initially estimated to have a temperature around 550–600 K, a distance of 8–12 parsecs (26–40 light years), and a mass of 15–31 Jupiter masses. More recent spectroscopic observations, using IRS on the Spitzer Space Telescope, give an effective temperature of 500–550 K. Since these temperature estimates are based on model comparisons, they should be treated with caution until the parallax of this object has been measured.\n"}
{"id": "195961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195961", "title": "Uncle Tungsten", "text": "Uncle Tungsten\n\nUncle Tungsten: Memories of a Chemical Boyhood is a memoir by Oliver Sacks about his childhood published in 2001. The book is named after Sacks's Uncle Dave, secretary of a business named Tungstalite, which made incandescent lightbulbs with a tungsten filament, whom Oliver nicknamed Uncle Tungsten. According to family members, Oliver used the single nickname, Uncle Tungsten, to refer to a combination of Dave with several other individuals in the same family. Uncle Tungsten was fascinated with tungsten and believed it was the metal of the future.\n\nThe book combines autobiographical elements with a primer in the history and science of chemistry. However, it is not all about his youthful passion for chemistry, but also is eclectic, relating his memories of the catastrophic fire at the Crystal Palace, his terrible experiences of sadism at school, his interest in amateur chemistry, and a passing obsession with coloring his own black-and-white photographs in his home laboratory.\n\n"}
{"id": "3548726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3548726", "title": "VLSI Project", "text": "VLSI Project\n\nDARPA's VLSI (very-large-scale integration) Project provided research funding to a wide variety of university-based teams in an effort to improve the state of the art in microprocessor design, then known as VLSI. Although little known in comparison to their work on what became the internet, the VLSI Project is likely one of the most influential research projects in modern computer history. Its offspring include BSD Unix, the RISC processor concept, many CAD tools still in use today, 32-bit graphics workstations, fabless design houses and its own fab, MOSIS. A similar DARPA project partnering with industry, VHSIC, is generally considered to have had little or no impact.\n\nThe Project was the brainchild of Caltech professor Carver Mead and Xerox PARC programmer Lynn Conway in the late 1970s. At the time microprocessor design was plateauing at the 100,000 transistor level because the tools available to the designers were simply unable to deal with more complex designs. 16-bit and 16/32-bit designs were coming to market, but beyond that seemed too difficult and expensive to contemplate. Mead and Conway felt that there was no theoretical problem impeding progress, simply a number of practical ones, and set about solving these in order to make much more complex designs possible.\n\nOne of the primary efforts under VLSI was the creation of the hardware and software needed to automate the design process, which at that point was still largely manual. For a design containing hundreds of thousands of transistors, there was simply no machine short of a supercomputer that had the memory and performance needed to work on the design as a whole.\n\nTo address this problem and allow \"average\" companies to use automated tools, VLSI funded the Geometry Engine and Pixel-Planes projects at Stanford University and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (respectively) to create suitable graphics hardware at the desktop level. The former evolved into an effort to design a networked CAD workstation, known as the Stanford University Network. This is better known today under its acronym, \"SUN\", as in Sun Microsystems, which commercialized the design.\n\nTo provide a common \"software\" platform to run these new tools, VLSI also funded a Berkeley project to provide a standardized Unix implementation, known today as the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD). Almost all early workstations used BSD, including designs that evolved into Sun, SGI, Apollo Computer, and others. \nBSD later spawned several descendants, OpenBSD, FreeBSD, NetBSD, and DragonFlyBSD.\n\nCAD software was an important part of the VLSI effort. This led to major improvements in CAD technology for layout, design rule checking, and simulation. The tools developed in this program were used extensively in both academic research programs and in industry. The ideas were developed in commercial implementations by companies such as VLSI Technology, Cadnetix, and Synopsis.\n\nWith these tools in hand, other VLSI funded projects were able to make huge strides in design complexity, sparking off the RISC revolution. The two major VLSI-related projects were Berkeley RISC and Stanford MIPS, both of which relied heavily on the tools developed in previous VLSI projects. To allow design teams to produce test examples, the project also funded the building of their own fabrication facility, MOSIS (\"Metal Oxide Semiconductor Implementation Service\"), which received plans electronically. MOSIS remains in operation today.\n\nAnother important part of their fabrication process was the development of the multichip wafer, which allowed a single wafer of silicon to be used to produce several chip designs at the same time. Previously a wafer would normally be used to produce a single design, which meant that there was a definite minimum production run one could consider starting up. In contrast the multichip wafer a small batch of a chip could be produced in the middle of a larger run, dramatically lowering the startup cost and prototyping stage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35835956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35835956", "title": "WISE 0734−7157", "text": "WISE 0734−7157\n\nWISE J073444.02−715744.0 (designation abbreviated to WISE 0734−7157) is a brown dwarf of spectral class Y0, located in constellation Volans at approximately 35 light-years from Earth. It is one of the furthest Y0 brown dwarfs known.\n\nWISE 0734−7157 was discovered in 2012 by J. Davy Kirkpatrick et al. from data, collected by Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE) Earth-orbiting satellite — NASA infrared-wavelength 40 cm (16 in) space telescope, which mission lasted from December 2009 to February 2011. In 2012 Kirkpatrick et al. published a paper in The Astrophysical Journal, where they presented discovery of seven new found by WISE brown dwarfs of spectral type Y, among which also was WISE 0734−7157.\n\nTrigonometric parallax of WISE 0734−7157 is not yet measured. Therefore, there are only distance estimates of this object, obtained by indirect — spectrofotometric — means (see table).\n\nWISE 0734−7157 distance estimates\n\nThe other six discoveries of brown dwarfs, published in Kirkpatrick et al. (2012):\n"}
{"id": "3829034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3829034", "title": "Weka (machine learning)", "text": "Weka (machine learning)\n\nWaikato Environment for Knowledge Analysis (Weka) is a suite of machine learning software written in Java, developed at the University of Waikato, New Zealand. It is free software licensed under the GNU General Public License.\n\nWeka contains a collection of visualization tools and algorithms for data analysis and predictive modeling, together with graphical user interfaces for easy access to these functions. The original non-Java version of Weka was a Tcl/Tk front-end to (mostly third-party) modeling algorithms implemented in other programming languages, plus data preprocessing utilities in C, and a Makefile-based system for running machine learning experiments. This original version was primarily designed as a tool for analyzing data from agricultural domains, but the more recent fully Java-based version (Weka 3), for which development started in 1997, is now used in many different application areas, in particular for educational purposes and research. Advantages of Weka include:\n\n\nWeka supports several standard data mining tasks, more specifically, data preprocessing, clustering, classification, regression, visualization, and feature selection. All of Weka's techniques are predicated on the assumption that the data is available as one flat file or relation, where each data point is described by a fixed number of attributes (normally, numeric or nominal attributes, but some other attribute types are also supported). Weka provides access to SQL databases using Java Database Connectivity and can process the result returned by a database query. Weka provides access to deep learning with Deeplearning4j. It is not capable of multi-relational data mining, but there is separate software for converting a collection of linked database tables into a single table that is suitable for processing using Weka. Another important area that is currently not covered by the algorithms included in the Weka distribution is sequence modeling.\n\nWeka's main user interface is the \"Explorer\", but essentially the same functionality can be accessed through the component-based \"Knowledge Flow\" interface and from the command line. There is also the \"Experimenter\", which allows the systematic comparison of the predictive performance of Weka's machine learning algorithms on a collection of datasets.\n\nThe \"Explorer\" interface features several panels providing access to the main components of the workbench:\n\n\nWeka has a large number of regression and classification tools. Native packages are the ones included in the executible Weka software, while other non-native ones can be downloaded and used within R.Weka environment. Among the native packages, the most famous tool is the M5p model tree package. The full list of tools is available here. Some of the regression tools are:\n\n\nIn version 3.7.2, a package manager was added to allow the easier installation of extension packages.\nSome functionality that used to be included with Weka prior to this version has since been moved into such extension packages, but this change also makes it easier for others to contribute extensions to Weka and to maintain the software, as this modular architecture allows independent updates of the Weka core and individual extensions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "623150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623150", "title": "Windage", "text": "Windage\n\nWindage is a force created on an object by friction when there is relative movement between air and the object. Windage loss is the reduction in efficiency due to windage forces.\n\nThere are two causes of windage:\n\nThe term can refer to:\n\nAerodynamic streamlining can be used to reduce windage.\n\nThere is a hydrodynamic effect similar to windage.\n\nIn firearms parlance, the word \"windage\" refers to the sight adjustment used to compensate for the horizontal deviation of the projectile trajectory from the intended point of impact due to wind drift or Coriolis effect. By contrast, the adjustment for the vertical deviation is the \"elevation\". \"Kentucky windage\" refers to the practice of aiming to one side of the target to adjust for wind, without changing the existing settings on the gunsight.\n\n\"Windage\" can also refer to the difference in diameter between the bore and the shot, especially in muskets and cannons.\n\nIn automotive parlance, windage refers to parasitic drag on the crankshaft due to sump oil splashing on the cranktrain during rough driving, and/or dissipating energy in turbulence from the cranktrain moving the crankcase gas and oil mist at high RPM. Windage may also inhibit the migration of oil into the sump and back to the oil pump, creating lubrication problems. Some manufacturers and aftermarket vendors have developed special scrapers to remove excess oil from the counterweights and windage screens to create a barrier between the crankshaft and oil sump.\n\n"}
{"id": "11948878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11948878", "title": "World Livestock Auctioneer Championship", "text": "World Livestock Auctioneer Championship\n\nThe World Livestock Auctioneer Championship is an annual competition of livestock auctioneers who practice the auction chant typical of rural areas in the United States and Canada. The competition is sponsored by the Livestock Marketing Association, and was first held in 1963. Brian Curing won the competition in 2017. \n\nThe 1976 competition was featured in Werner Herzog's film \"How Much Wood Would a Woodchuck Chuck\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4368142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4368142", "title": "Yevgeny Tolstikov", "text": "Yevgeny Tolstikov\n\nYevgeny Ivanovich Tolstikov () (February 9, 1913 – December 3, 1987) was a Soviet polar explorer, awarded by the Hero of the Soviet Union title. He led the Third Soviet Antarctic Expedition and one of the first manned drifting ice stations in the Arctic.\n\nIn 1979, he was made deputy chairman of the State Committee for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Control.\n\nA minor planet 3357 Tolstikov discovered by Czech astronomer Antonín Mrkos in 1984 is named after him.\n"}
