{"id": "46881627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46881627", "title": "2nd Amendment Day", "text": "2nd Amendment Day\n\n2nd Amendment Day is a public awareness day observed in the United States. Its purpose is to raise awareness of and support for the fundamental right to keep and bear arms, which is codified in the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution. This amendment, along with the nine others ratified on December 15, 1791, comprise the Constitution's Bill of Rights.\n\nOklahoma observes 2nd Amendment Day on June 28. This is because the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of the 2nd Amendment in the case of \"McDonald v. City of Chicago\" on June 28, 2010.\nPennsylvania observes 2nd Amendment Day on the fourth Tuesday of May.\n\nSouth Carolina legislators passed the Second Amendment Education Act, which is a two-fold move to protect gun rights in state schools. First, it would establish Second Amendment Awareness Day each year on Dec. 15. The day would be highlighted by a poster and essay contest in which students of all grades would be encouraged to submit entries on the theme of “The Right to Bear Arms; One American Right Protecting All Others.” From the submissions, the South Carolina Legislative Sportsmen’s Caucus would select statewide winners.\n\n"}
{"id": "40757257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40757257", "title": "Ancestral domain", "text": "Ancestral domain\n\nAncestral domain or ancestral lands refers to the lands, territories and resources of indigenous peoples, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region. The term differs from indigenous land rights, Aboriginal title or Native Title by directly indicating relationship to land based on ancestry, while domain indicates relationships beyond material lands and territories, including spiritual and cultural aspects that may not be acknowledged in land titles and legal doctrine about trading ownership.\n\nIndigenous peoples may prefer to be described as custodians or guardians of their ancestral domain or lands rather than as title owners or land owners.\n\nThe concept of individual property ownership and land tenure that can be traded was often introduced as part of colonialism. While the Western model of land ownership gives an individual the property right to control land as a commodity, indigenous conceptions have a cultural and spiritual character. They invoke a mutual responsibility and relationship between land and people.\n\nProfessor Michael Dodson AM described Aboriginal Australians' idea of country using the term during his Australian of the Year speech. He said:\n\nThe term was used as early as the 1920s in the work of the International Labour Organization.\n\nInitially, the ILO was concerned with the situation of indigenous and tribal peoples in their roles as workers in the overseas colonies of European powers. It became increasingly evident that indigenous peoples were exposed to severe labour exploitation and had a need for special protection in cases where they were expelled from their ancestral domains only to become seasonal, migrant, bonded or home-based labourers. This recognition led to adoption in 1930 of the ILO's Forced Labour Convention (No. 29).\n\nFollowing the creation of the United Nations, the ILO with the participation of other parts of the UN system created the Indigenous and Tribal Populations Convention (No. 107). Convention No. 107 was adopted in 1957 as the first international treaty on this subject.\n\nThis involved the underlying assumption that the only possible future for indigenous and tribal peoples was integration into larger society, and that the state should make decisions regarding indigenous development. In 1986 an ILO committee of experts concluded that \"the integrationist approach of the Convention was obsolete and that its application was detrimental in the modern world.\" \n\nIn 1988 and 1989, the revision of Convention No. 107 was on the agenda of the International Labour Conference (ILC) and in June 1989, the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention (No. 169) was adopted.\n\nThis paved the way for the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in 2007.\n\nIndigenous peoples in Asia have used community mapping to advocate for land rights. This mapping may include documenting sacred sites and immaterial but geographically-linked traditional knowledge of land.\n\nIn 2013, the Indonesian Constitutional Court amended the 1999 Law on Forestry to return land rights to indigenous peoples whose ancestral lands are forested.\n\nIn Indonesia, there have been many land conflicts regarding indigenous community territories in resource-rich Kalimantan. According to data quoted in the Jakarta Post, following the enactment of the Masterplan for the Acceleration and Expansion of Indonesian Economic Development (MP3EI) in 2011, some 135 communities became involved in conflict with businesses. Many conflicts involve indigenous peoples' traditional cultures being uprooted by palm oil plantations, or logging or mining interests.\n\nNGOs in Indonesia set up the Ancestral Domain Registration Agency. A community mapper said the agency was created to \"be prepared for the court ruling. If it the Constitutional Court ruled that customary forests belonged to indigenous peoples, we wanted to be able to show where those customary forests were located.\" \n\nThe common term in Canada is \"traditional territory\". This can refer the entire homeland of a large ethnic group or the particular hunting and trapping grounds of a small band society. In areas where treaties have been signed, it refers to the land outside of Indian reserves in which a particular indigenous nation still claims an interest. In the case of specific rights to hunt and fish in a territory, these are called \"aboriginal rights\" and are a separate legal category from \"treaty rights\". In the case of areas where there are no treaties, such as most of British Columbia, the Supreme Court of Canada has ruled that aboriginal title applies to the entirety of a nation's claimed homeland, and not just to the particular locations of villages and other intensely-used sites. This was a unanimous ruling by the court in the 2017 case \"Tsilhqot'in Nation v British Columbia\". However, in that same year, the Canadian court rejected the spiritual use of a site as being sufficient to establish aboriginal title, in \"Ktunaxa Nation v British Columbia (Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations)\".\n\nIn the Philippines, the term is used to refer to indigenous peoples' land rights in law. Ancestral lands are referred to in the Philippines Constitution. Article XII, Section 5 says: \"The State, subject to the provisions of this Constitution and national development policies and programs, shall protect the rights of indigenous cultural communities to their ancestral lands to ensure their economic, social, and cultural well-being.\" \n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization's research on forest land ownership in the Philippines found conflicts in institutional mandates among the Local Government Code, mining law and the National Integrated Protected Areas Act, and recommended exclusive resource use rights to community-based forest management communities.\n"}
{"id": "31098468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31098468", "title": "Animal Crush Video Prohibition Act of 2010", "text": "Animal Crush Video Prohibition Act of 2010\n\nThe Animal Crush Video Prohibition Act of 2010, , was a United States law that addressed the banning of depictions of cruelty to animals to satisfy a crush fetish. The bill, , was introduced by Rep. Elton Gallegly (R-CA), and primarily modifies .\n\nThe act revised the version of 18 U.S.C. § 48 which had entered into effect on December 9, 1999 was an unconstitutional abridgment of the First Amendment right to freedom of speech by the Supreme Court. The previous law, placed into effect by enacted on December 9, 1999, aimed at banning the publication, sale, and ownership of so-called \"crush videos\", which are films that feature a person or another animal crushing or trampling another smaller animal to death. In 2010, the Supreme Court ruled that the law was too vague and broad in \"United States v. Stevens\", and, in an 8–1 decision, it nullified the 1999 law.\n\n"}
{"id": "4673801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4673801", "title": "Anti-Terrorism Act (Canada)", "text": "Anti-Terrorism Act (Canada)\n\nThe Canadian Anti-terrorism Act () (the \"Act\") was passed by the Parliament of Canada in response to the September 11, 2001, attacks in the United States. It received Royal Assent on December 18, 2001, as Bill C-36. The \"omnibus bill\" extended the powers of government and institutions within the Canadian security establishment to respond to the threat of terrorism. \n\nThe expanded powers were highly controversial due to widely perceived incompatibility with the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, in particular for the Act's provisions allowing for 'secret' trials, preemptive detention and expansive security and surveillance powers.\n\nThe \"Act\"'s passage has been compared to the government's activation of the \"War Measures Act\" in accordance to terrorist activity by the FLQ.\n\nIt was opposed by Parliamentarians Marjory LeBreton and Andrew Telegdi, and criminal defense lawyer David Paciocco, amongst others. Ziyad Mia, of the Toronto Muslim Lawyers Association, \"questioned whether the definition of terrorist activity would apply to a group that resisted, by acts of violence, the regimes of Saddam Hussein or Robert Mugabe,\" and pointed out that it criminalized the French Resistance and Nelson Mandela.\n\nIn January 2010, Zakaria Amara, from Mississauga, a suspect in the 2006 Toronto terrorism case, was sentenced to imprisonment for life. This sentence was the stiffest given so far under the Act. Saad Gaya from Oakville, a fellow suspect in the same case, was sentenced to 12 years in prison.\n\nSome of the bill's provisions were set to expire on March 1, 2007. The Harper government urged that these be renewed, while all three opposition parties were opposed. Specifically, the provisions had to do with preventative arrest and investigative hearings. On February 28, 2007, the House of Commons voted 159-124 against renewing the provisions, which later led to their expiry, as originally planned in the sunset clause.\n\nIn 2012, the Government of Canada introduced in the Senate of Canada Bill S-7, the \"Combating Terrorism Act\", which was to renew the expired provisions for a new five-year term, and introduced new crimes for leaving Canada to join or train with a terror group. The bill also increased the maximum prison sentences for some offences related to harbouring suspected terrorists. On April 19, just after the Boston Marathon bombing, the government rearranged the Parliamentary agenda to fast-track Bill S-7 to a vote on April 22 or 23, 2013. The \"Act\" received royal assent on April 25, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1973823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973823", "title": "Brown Act", "text": "Brown Act\n\nThe Ralph M. Brown Act, located at California Government Code 54950 \"et seq.\", is an act of the California State Legislature, authored by Assemblymember Ralph M. Brown and passed in 1953, that guarantees the public's right to attend and participate in meetings of local legislative bodies.\n\nThe Brown Act, originally a 686 word statute that has grown substantially over the years, was enacted in response to mounting public concerns over informal, undisclosed meetings held by local elected officials. City councils, county boards, and other local government bodies were avoiding public scrutiny by holding secret \"workshops\" and \"study sessions.\" The Brown Act solely applies to California city and county government agencies, boards, and councils. The Act has been interpreted to apply to email communication as well, leading to restrictions on the number of parties that can be copied on electronic messages. The comparable Bagley-Keene Act mandates open meetings for State government agencies.\n\nThe introduction to the Brown Act describes its purpose and intent:\n\nIn enacting this chapter, the Legislature finds and declares that the public commissions, boards and councils and the other public agencies in this State exist to aid in the conduct of the people's business. It is the intent of the law that their actions be taken openly and that their deliberations be conducted openly. The people of this State do not yield their sovereignty to the agencies which serve them. The people, in delegating authority, do not give their public servants the right to decide what is good for the people to know and what is not good for them to know. The people insist on remaining informed so that they may retain control over the instruments they have created.\n\nThe \"Sacramento Bee\" said of the act:\n\nA law to prohibit secret meetings of official bodies, save under the most exceptional circumstances, should not be necessary. Public officers above all other persons should be imbued with the truth that their business is the public's business and they should be the last to tolerate any attempt to keep the people from being fully informed as to what is going on in official agencies. Unfortunately, however, that is not always the case. Instances are many in which officials have contrived, deliberately and shamefully, to operate in a vacuum of secrecy.\n\nSupporters of the Brown Act say it still lacks enforcement (and has never had a successful prosecution)contending the law has been eroded by court decisions and government officials' efforts to block access to records. \"The unfulfilled promise, I'm afraid, that 50 years has revealed, is enforcement,\" commented Terry Francke, of the California First Amendment Coalition, on the 50th anniversary of the bill's passage in 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16893807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16893807", "title": "Chief Justice of Malta", "text": "Chief Justice of Malta\n\nThe Chief Justice of Malta is the primus inter pares of the judicial branch of Malta. The Chief Justice leads the business of the Superior Courts and is appointed by the President of Malta acting in accordance with the advice of the Prime Minister of Malta after consulting with the Leader of Opposition. \n\nThe judicial appointments committee which is constituted according to the provisions of the Constitution and chaired by the Chief Justice, is not consulted on the appointment. This to ensure that the outgoing Chief Justice would not have a say on the choice of his/her successor. \n\nWhere more than one judge is assigned to sit ordinarily in a court, or in a chamber or section of the court, the distribution of duties in general between the judges appertains to the Chief Justice. \n\nBy virtue of his office, the Chief Justice of Malta is ex officio: \n\n\nThe Chief Justice may designate one of the Magistrates sitting in the Inferior Courts as Senior Magistrate, who shall perform such duties and functions as may be assigned to his by the Chief Justice himself. \n\nIf the office of Chief Justice is vacant or if the Chief Justice is for any reason unable to perform the functions of his office, then, until a person has been appointed to and has assumed the functions of that office or until the Chief Justice has resumed those functions, as the case may be, those functions shall (except to such extent, if any, as other provision is made by law) be performed by such one of the other judges of the Superior Courts as may be designated in that behalf by the President, acting in accordance with the advice of the Prime Minister.\n\n"}
{"id": "35609797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35609797", "title": "Coloured Persons Representative Council", "text": "Coloured Persons Representative Council\n\nThe Coloured Persons Representative Council of the Republic of South Africa was a partially elected council with limited legislative powers, intended to represent coloured South Africans during the apartheid era. It was first elected in 1969, re-elected in 1975, and permanently dissolved in 1980. In 1984 the House of Representatives was created to represent coloured voters in the Tricameral Parliament.\n\n30 September 1969:\n19 March 1975:\nIn the course of its existence the CPRC only passed a small number of laws:\n"}
{"id": "23439411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23439411", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1986", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1986\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1986 was the ninth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in London, the United Kingdom, between 3 August 1986 and 5 August 1986, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher. This was a special meeting held in between the biennial CHOGMs in order to consider the recommendations of the Commonwealth Eminent Persons Group regarding economic sanctions against South Africa due to its policies of apartheid. British prime minister Margaret Thatcher's refusal to support mandatory sanctions resulted in an acrimonious meeting and almost led to a split in the Commonwealth. \n"}
{"id": "33454478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33454478", "title": "Consignment agreement", "text": "Consignment agreement\n\nA consignment agreement is an agreement between a consignee and consignor for the storage, transfer, sale or resale and use of the commodity. The consignee may take goods from the consignment stock for use or resale subject to payment to the consignor agreeably to the terms bargained in the consignment agreement. The unsold goods will normally be returned by the consignee to the consignor.\n\nIt may be accompanied by a consignment agreement (Franchising, distributorship or OEM).\nGoods are stored at the premises of the distributor, or premises of a third party, at distributor's disposal, but remain the property of the exporter.\n\nThis agreement decreases the exporter's risk because he remains the owner of the commodities in storage. The distributor does not need to pay until he has sold the commodities, so he improves his cash flow. \nBoth parties must ensure that the consignment agreement is formulated very carefully, so no room for doubt remains with regard to third parties, specifically the distributor's creditors in case of his bankruptcy. \nThe distributor and the exporter have incompatible interests. The distributor's interest will be to increase the amount of the stock in consignment because this has no effect on his cash situation. Therefore the parties should agree on reasonable stock rolling adapted to the market demand, and consider how quickly the exporter may produce and deliver additional goods in order to avoid stock disruption.\n\nFulfillment of certain conditions is requested by the customs and VAT authorities. Due to the European VAT rules, it is easier to have a consignment stock between EU countries. The distributor is required to keep accurate accounts, but dispensable to have a bonded warehouse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13519561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13519561", "title": "Copyright Act 1842", "text": "Copyright Act 1842\n\nThe Copyright Act 1842 (5 & 6 Vict. c. 45) was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom, which received the Royal Assent on 1 July 1842 and was repealed in 1911. It revised and consolidated the copyright law of the United Kingdom.\nIt was one of the Copyright Acts 1734 to 1888.\n\nIt repealed the former Copyright Acts, and provided that in future the copyright of every book published in the lifetime of its author would endure for the remainder of the author's life and for a further seven years after their death. If this period was less than forty-two years from the first publication, then the copyright would persist for a full forty-two years regardless of the date of their death. Any work published after the author's death would remain the copyright of the owner of the manuscript for the same forty-two year period.\n\nWhere copyright already existed in a work under earlier legislation, it was to be extended to that provided for by the new act, except that if the copyright had been sold it would lapse at the end of the present term of copyright, unless an extension was agreed to by both the proprietor and the author. This ensured that authors would have the opportunity to be compensated for the fact that rights they had sold some years previously, possibly for a fixed sum, had become substantially more valuable.\n\nIn an early form of a compulsory license, the Privy Council was given the authority to authorize the republication of any book which the proprietor refused to publish after the death of the author.\n\nCopyright in encyclopedias, magazines, periodicals, and series works was to be vested in the proprietors as though they were themselves the authors, saving that essays, articles, &c. first published as part of a collected periodical work, the republication right was to revert to the original author after twenty-eight years and continue for the remainder of the term.\n\nThe Act extended to dramatic works, previously covered by the Dramatic Copyright Act 1833, and to their \"right of representation\" which was to have the same term as copyright. The copyright and the right of representation of a dramatic work could be assigned separately. The Act also extended to musical works, and extended the provisions of the 1833 Act to cover such works.\n\nCopyrights were declared to be personal property, and thus capable of bequest.\n\nOne copy of any book printed after the Act came into force was to be submitted within one month of publication to the British Museum, at the expense of the publisher. The Bodleian Library, Cambridge University Library, the Advocates' Library and the Trinity College Library, Dublin, were all empowered to demand copies, which were to be delivered within a month of receiving the demand.\n\nA registry of copyrights was to be kept at Stationers' Hall, and an entry was to be taken as \"prima facie\" proof of proprietorship; an assignation of copyright recorded in the register was to be considered as having the force of a legal deed. Entry in the register was a necessary precondition to suing under the Act, but an omission did not affect the legal title, simply the ability to sue.\n\nAny illegal copies of work were forfeit, to become the property of the proprietor of the copyright, and could be recovered from their publisher by legal action. All editions published outside British jurisdiction were illegal; only the copyright proprietor was permitted to import them, and any unauthorized imports were likewise forfeit. Any illegally imported copies could be seized by customs agents, and fined on conviction at a rate of £10 plus double the value of each copy of the book. \n\nThe Act extended throughout the British Empire. It was repealed by sections 36 and 37(2) of, and schedule 3 to, the Copyright Act 1911.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28690270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28690270", "title": "Copyright troll", "text": "Copyright troll\n\nA copyright troll is a party (person or company) that enforces copyrights it owns for purposes of making money through litigation, in a manner considered unduly aggressive or opportunistic, generally without producing or licensing the works it owns for paid distribution. Critics object to the activity because they believe it does not encourage the production of creative works, but instead makes money through the inequities and unintended consequences of high statutory damages provisions in copyright laws intended to encourage creation of such works.\n\nBoth the term and the concept of a copyright troll began to appear in the mid-2000s. It derives from the pejorative \"patent trolls\", which are companies that enforce patent rights to earn money from companies that are selling products, without having products of their own for sale. It is distinguished from organizations such as ASCAP, which collect royalties and enforce copyrights of its members.\n\nOne commentator describes Harry Wall, husband of nineteenth-century British comic singer Annie Wall, as the world's first copyright troll. Wall set up \"the Authors', Composers' and Artists' Copyright Protection Office\", to collect fees for unauthorized performances of works by composers (often deceased) based on the threat of litigation for statutory damages under the Dramatic Copyright Act of 1842.\n\nIn the 2000s, the SCO Group's effort to obtain royalties in regards to the open source operating system Linux, was viewed as copyright trolling by some of the approximately 1,500 companies from whom SCO demanded licensing royalties, based on a copyright that a court eventually ruled belonged instead to Novell. Novell, by contrast, had no interest or intention of enforcing its copyright against the alleged infringers.\n\nThe term was also applied to two parties that separately sued Google in 2006, after posting content they knew would be indexed by Google's Googlebot spider, with the industry standard \"noindex\" opt-out tags deliberately omitted. After \"Perfect 10, Inc. v. Google Inc.\", adult magazine \"Perfect 10\" was described as a copyright troll for setting up image links with the intent to sue Google for infringement after Google added them to its image search service. In \"Field v. Google\", a Nevada lawyer took \"affirmative steps\" to get his legal writings included in Google's search results so that he could sue Google, and was ruled to have acted in bad faith. More recently, the term has been used to describe entities that bring questionable claims against companies in the fashion industry over purported copyrights in fabric patterns.\n\nIn 2010, copyright holding company Righthaven LLC was called a copyright troll by commentators, after it purchased copyrights to a number of old news articles from Stephens Media, at the time the publisher of the \"Las Vegas Review-Journal\", based on a business model of suing bloggers and other Internet authors for statutory damages for having reproduced the articles on their sites without permission.\n\nThe matter was covered by the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Bloomberg News\", \"Wired News\", \"Mother Jones\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"Boston Herald\", and other newspapers and news blogs, as well as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which offered to assist the defendants. The paper's competitor, the \"Las Vegas Sun\", covered all 107 of the lawsuits as of September 1, 2010, describing it as the first known instance of a copyright troll buying the rights to a news story based on finding that its copyright had been infringed. The Review-Journal's publisher responded by defending the lawsuits, and criticizing the Sun for covering them.\n\nIn August, 2010, the company entered an agreement with WEHCO Media in Arkansas to pursue similar actions, and announced that it was in negotiation with a number of other publishers. Wired Magazine described the activity as \"borrowing a page from the patent trolls\", and noted that the company was demanding $75,000 from each infringer, and agreeing to settlements of several thousand dollars per defendant.\n\nIn April 2011, a Colorado court ruled in \"Righthaven v. Hill\" that:\n\nBy the second half of 2011, defendants with resources to fight Righthaven in court were winning cases on grounds that their usage fell within the fair use doctrine and that Stephens Media had actually not assigned full ownership of the copyrighted material to Righthaven. Righthaven was also sanctioned by at least one judge for failing to disclose that Stephens Media got a 50 percent cut of any lawsuit proceeds involving the \"Review-Journal.\" Successful defendants demanded court costs and legal fees, which Righthaven refused to pay. By December 2011, Righthaven was insolvent and on the auction block.\n\nTwo lawyers have provided a framework for a legal defense against copyright trolls. Since most of the lawsuits about online copyright infringement rely on a minimal amount of information that targets non-infringers as well as infringers, there are ways to defend against the lawsuit by defense lawyers and pro se defendants that is described in the framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "617671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=617671", "title": "Digest (Roman law)", "text": "Digest (Roman law)\n\nThe Digest, also known as the Pandects (, adapted from , \"all-containing\"), is a name given to a compendium or digest of juristic writings on Roman law compiled by order of the Eastern Roman emperor Justinian I in the 6th century CE (530–533). It is divided into 50 books.\n\nThe Digest was part of a reduction and codification of all Roman laws up to that time, which later came to be known as the (lit. \"Body of Civil Law\"). The other two parts were a collection of statutes, the (Code), which survives in a second edition, and an introductory textbook, the Institutes; all three parts were given force of law. The set was intended to be complete, but Justinian passed further legislation, which was later collected separately as the (New Laws or, conventionally, the \"Novels\").\n\nThe original \"Codex Justinianus\" was promulgated in April of 529 by the C. \"Summa\". This made it the only source of imperial law, and repealed all earlier codifications. However, it permitted reference to ancient jurists whose writings had been regarded as authoritative. Under Theodosus II's Law of Citations, the writings of Papinian, Paulus, Ulpian, Modestinus, and Gaius were made the primary juristic authorities who could be cited in court. Others cited by them also could be referred to, but their views had to be \"informed by a comparison of manuscripts\".\n\nThe principal surviving manuscript is the Littera Florentina of the late sixth or early seventh century. In the Middle Ages, the Digest was divided into three parts, and most of the manuscripts contain only one of these parts. The entire Digest was translated into English in 1985.\n\nThe Digest was discovered in Amalfi in 1135, prompting a revival of learning of Roman law throughout Europe. Other sources claim it was discovered in 1070 and formed a major impetus for the founding of the first university in Europe, the University of Bologna (1088).\n\nThe codified authorities often conflicted. Therefore, Justinian ordered these conflicts to be settled and fifty of these were published as the \"quinquaginta decisiones\" (fifty decisions). Soon after, he further decreed that the works of these ancient writers, which totalled over 1,500 books, be condensed into fifty books. These were to be entitled, in Latin, \"Digesta\" (Ordered abstracts) or, in Greek, Πανδέκται \"Pandectae\" (\"Encyclopedia\"). In response to this order of December 15, 530 (\"Deo auctore\"), Tribonian created a commission of sixteen members to do the work—one government official, four professors, and eleven advocates.\n\nThe commission was given the power to condense and alter the texts in order to simplify, clarify, and eliminate conflicts among them. The Digest's organization is complex: each of the fifty books is divided into several titles, each containing several extracts, and many of the extracts have several parts or paragraphs. Research in the modern era has created a highly probable picture of how the commission carried out its task.\n\nApproximately two-fifths of the Digest consists of the writings of Ulpian, while some one-sixth belongs to Paulus. The work was declared to be the sole source of non-statute law: commentaries on the compilation were forbidden, or even the citing of the original works of the jurists for the explaining of ambiguities in the text.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27560802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27560802", "title": "Dry state", "text": "Dry state\n\nA dry state is a state in the United States in which the manufacture, distribution, importation, and sale of alcoholic beverages are prohibited or tightly restricted. While some states, such as North Dakota, entered the United States as dry states, others went dry after passage of prohibition legislation. Currently, no state in the United States remains completely dry, but some states contain dry counties.\n\nPrior to the adoption of nationwide prohibition in 1920, state legislatures in the United States passed local option laws that allowed a county or township to go dry if it chose to do so. The Maine law, passed in 1851 in Maine, was among the first statutory implementations of the developing temperance movement in the United States. Following Maine's lead, prohibition laws were soon passed in the states of Delaware, Ohio, Illinois, Rhode Island, Minnesota, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and New York; however, all but one were repealed. The debate over prohibition increased in the United States during the late nineteenth and early twentieth century as the drys, including the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), the National Prohibition Party, the Anti-Saloon League, and others, continued to support temperance and prohibition legislation, while the wets opposed it. By 1913 nine states had statewide prohibition and 31 others had local option laws, placing more than 50 percent of the United States population under some form of alcohol prohibition.\n\nFollowing two unsuccessful attempts at national prohibition legislation (one in 1913 and the other in 1915), Congress approved a resolution on December 19, 1917, to prohibit the manufacture, sale, transportation, and importation of alcoholic beverages in the United States. The resolution was sent to the states for ratification and became the Eighteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. On January 8, 1918, Mississippi became the first state to ratify the amendment and on January 16, 1919, Nebraska became the 36th state to do so, securing its passage with the required three-fourths of the states. By the end of February 1919, only three states remained as hold-outs to ratification: New Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode Island. The National Prohibition Act, also known as the Volstead Act, was enacted on October 18, 1919. Prohibition in the United States went into effect on January 17, 1920. Nationwide prohibition was repealed in 1933 with the passage of the Twenty-first Amendment on February 20 and its ratification on December 5.\n\nThis table lists the effective dates each state went dry and any dates of repeal that do not coincide with the end of national prohibition in 1933.\n\n"}
{"id": "144089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144089", "title": "Eminent domain", "text": "Eminent domain\n\nEminent domain (United States, Philippines), land acquisition (India, Malaysia, Singapore), compulsory purchase (United Kingdom, New Zealand, Ireland), resumption (Hong Kong, Uganda), resumption/compulsory acquisition (Australia), or expropriation (France, Italy, Mexico, South Africa, Canada, Brazil, Portugal, Spain, Chile, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Panama) is the power of a state, provincial, or national government to take private property for public use only if the government provides fair compensation to the property owner. However, this power can be legislatively delegated by the state to municipalities, government subdivisions, or even to private persons or corporations, when they are authorized by the legislature to exercise the functions of public character.\n\nIn the Anglo-American historical context, property taken could be used only by the government taking the property in question. The most common uses of property taken by eminent domain have been for roads, government buildings and public utilities. However, in the mid-20th century, a new application of eminent domain was pioneered, in which the government could take the property and transfer it to a private third party. This was initially done only to \"blighted\" property, on the principle that such properties had a negative impact upon surrounding property owners, but was later expanded to allow the taking of any private property when the new 3rd party owner could develop the property in such a way as to bring in increased tax revenues to the government.\n\nSome jurisdictions require that the taker make an offer to purchase the subject property, before resorting to the use of eminent domain. However, once the property is taken and the judgment is final, the condemnor owns it in fee simple, and may put it to uses other than those specified in the eminent domain action.\n\nTakings may be of the subject property in its entirety (total take) or in part (part take), either quantitatively or qualitatively (either partially in fee simple or, commonly, an easement, or any other interest less than the full fee simple title).\n\nThe term \"eminent domain\" was taken from the legal treatise \"De jure belli ac pacis\" (On the Law of War and Peace), written by the Dutch jurist Hugo Grotius in 1625, which used the term \"dominium eminens\" (Latin for \"supreme lordship\") and described the power as follows:\n...  The property of subjects is under the eminent domain of the state, so that the state or those who act for it may use and even alienate and destroy such property, not only in the case of extreme necessity, in which even private persons have a right over the property of others, but for ends of public utility, to which ends those who founded civil society must be supposed to have intended that private ends should give way. But, when this is done, the state is bound to make good the loss to those who lose their property.\n\nThe exercise of eminent domain is not limited to real property. Condemnors may also take personal property, even intangible property such as contract rights, patents, trade secrets, and copyrights. Even the taking of a professional sports team's franchise has been held by the California Supreme Court to be within the purview of the \"public use\" constitutional limitation, although eventually, that taking (of the Oakland Raiders' NFL franchise) was not permitted because it was deemed to violate the interstate commerce clause of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nA taking of property must be accompanied by payment of \"just compensation\" to the [former] owner. In theory, this is supposed to put the owner in the same position \"pecuniarily\" that he would have been in had his property not been taken. But in practice courts have limited compensation to the property's fair market value, considering its highest and best use. But though rarely granted, this is not the exclusive measure of compensation; see Kimball Laundry Co. v. United States (business losses in temporary takings) and United States v. Pewee Coal Co. (operating losses caused by government operations of a mine seized during World War II). In most takings owners are not compensated for a variety of incidental losses caused by the taking of their property that, though incurred and readily demonstrable in other cases, are deemed by the courts to be noncompensable in eminent domain. The same is true of attorneys' and appraisers fees. But as a matter of legislative grace rather than constitutional requirement some of these losses (e.g., business goodwill) have been made compensable by state legislative enactments, and may be partially covered by provisions of the federal Uniform Relocation Assistance Act.\n\nMost states use the term \"eminent domain\", but some U.S. states use the term \"appropriation\" (New York) or \"expropriation\" (Louisiana) as synonyms for the exercise of eminent domain powers. The term \"condemnation\" is used to describe the formal act of exercising this power to transfer title or some lesser interest in the subject property.\n\nThe constitutionally required \"just compensation\" in partial takings is usually measured by fair market value of the part taken, plus severance damages (the diminution in value of the property retained by the owner [remainder] when only a part of the subject property is taken). Where a partial taking provides economic benefits specific to the remainder, those must be deducted, typically from severance damages. The former owners of the property rarely receive full market value because some elements of value are deemed noncompensable in eminent domain law.\n\nThe practice of condemnation came to the American colonies with the common law. When it came time to draft the United States Constitution, differing views on eminent domain were voiced. The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution requires that the taking be for a \"public use\" and mandates payment of \"just compensation\" to the owner.\n\nIn federal law, Congress may take private property directly (without recourse to the courts) by passing an Act transferring title of the subject property directly to the government. In such cases, the property owner seeking compensation must sue the United States for compensation in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. The legislature may also delegate the power to private entities like public utilities or railroads, and even to individuals. The U.S. Supreme Court has consistently deferred to the right of states to make their own determinations of \"public use\".\n\nIn Canada, expropriation is governed by federal or provincial statutes. Under these statutory regimes, public authorities have the right to acquire private property for public purposes, so long as the acquisition is approved by the appropriate government body. Once a property is taken, an owner is entitled to \"be made whole\" by compensation for: the market value of the expropriated property, injurious affection to the remainder of the property (if any), disturbance damages, business loss, and special difficulty relocating. Owners can advance claims for compensation above that initially provided by the expropriating authority by bringing a claim before the court or an administrative body appointed by the governing legislation.\n\nIn many European nations, the European Convention on Human Rights provides protection from an appropriation of private property by the state. Article 8 of the Convention provides that \"Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home, and his correspondence\" and prohibits interference with this right by the state, unless the interference is in accordance with law and necessary in the interests of national security, public safety, economic well-being of the country, prevention of disorder or crime, protection of health or morals, or protection of the rights and freedoms of others. This right is expanded by Article 1 of the First Protocol to the Convention, which states that \"Every natural person or legal person is entitled to the peaceful enjoyment of his possessions.\" Again, this is subject to exceptions where state deprivation of private possessions is in the general or public interest, is in accordance with law, and, in particular, to secure payment of taxes. Settled case-law of ECHR provides that just compensation has to be paid in cases of expropriation.\n\nIn France, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen similarly mandates just and preliminary compensation before expropriation; and a Déclaration d'utilité publique is commonly required, to demonstrate a public benefit.\n\nNotably, in 1945, by decree of General Charles de Gaulle based on untried accusations of collaboration, the Renault company was expropriated from Louis Renault posthumously and nationalised as \"Régie Nationale des Usines Renault\"—without compensation.\n\nAfter his victory in 1066, William the Conqueror seized virtually all land in England. Although he maintained absolute power over the land, he granted fiefs to landholders who served as stewards, paying fees and providing military services. During the Hundred Years War in the 14th century, Edward III used the Crown's right of purveyance for massive expropriations. Chapter 28 of Magna Carta required that immediate cash payment be made for expropriations. As the king's power was broken down in the ensuing centuries, tenants were regarded as holding ownership rights rather than merely possessory rights over their land. In 1427, a statute was passed granting commissioners of sewers in Lincolnshire the power to take land without compensation. After the early 16th century, however, Parliamentary takings of land for roads, bridges, etc. generally did require compensation. The common practice was to pay 10% more than the assessed value. However, as the voting franchise was expanded to include more non-landowners, the bonus was eliminated. In spite of contrary statements found in some American law, in the United Kingdom, compulsory purchase valuation cases were tried to juries well into the 20th century, such as Attorney-General v De Keyser’s Royal Hotel Ltd (1919).\n\nIn England and Wales, and other jurisdictions that follow the principles of English law, the related term compulsory purchase is used. The landowner is compensated with a price agreed or stipulated by an appropriate person. Where agreement on price cannot be achieved, the value of the taken land is determined by the Upper Tribunal. The operative law is a patchwork of statutes and case law. The principal Acts are the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act 1845, the Land Compensation Act 1961, the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965, the Land Compensation Act 1973, the Acquisition of Land Act 1981, part IX of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, the Planning and Compensation Act 1991, and the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004.\n\nThe Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany states in its Article 14 (3) that \"an expropriation is only allowed for the public good\" and just compensation must be made. It also provides for the right to have the amount of the compensation checked by a court.\n\n\"Esproprio\", or more formally \"espropriazione per pubblica utilità\" (literally \"expropriation for public utility\") in Italy takes place within the frame of civil law, as an expression of the \"potere ablatorio\" (ablative power). The law regulating expropriation is the D.P.R. n.327 of 2001, amended by D.Lgs. n.302 of 2002; it supersedes the old expropriation law, the Royal Decree n.2359 of 1865. Also other national and regional laws may apply, not always giving a full compensation to the owner. Expropriation can be total (the whole property is expropriated) or partial; permanent or temporary.\n\nThe article 42 of the Italian Constitution and the article 834 of the Italian Civil Code state that a private good can be expropriated for public utility. Furthermore, the article 2 of the Constitution binds Italian citizens to respect their \"mandatory duties of political, economical and social solidarity\".\n\nThe implementation of the eminent domain follows two principles:\n\"Nazionalizzazione\" (\"nationalization\"), instead, is provided for by article 43 of the Constitution; it transfers to governmental authority and property a whole industrial sector, if it is deemed to be a natural or de facto monopoly, and an essential service of public utility. The most famous nationalization in Italy was the 1962 nationalization of the electrical power sector.\n\nArticle 33.3 of the Spanish Constitution of 1978 allows forced expropriation (\"expropiación forzosa\") only where justified on the grounds of public utility or social interest and subject to the payment of appropriate compensation as provided for in law.\n\nExpropriation. The right of state or municipality to buy property when it is determined to be of \"particular public interest\", is regulated in Expropriationslagen (1972:719). The government purchases the property at an estimated market value plus a 25% compensation. The law also states that the property owner shall not suffer economic harm because of the expropriation.\n\nIn Australia, section 51(xxxi) of the Australian Constitution permits the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws with respect to \"the acquisition of property on just terms from any State or person for any purpose in respect of which the Parliament has power to make laws.\" This has been construed as meaning that just compensation may not always include monetary or proprietary recompense, rather it is for the court to determine what is just. It may be necessary to imply a need for compensation in the interests of justice, lest the law be invalidated.\n\nProperty subject to resumption is not restricted to real estate as authority from the Federal Court has extended the states' power to resume property to any form of physical property. For the purposes of section 51(xxxi), money is not property that may be compulsorily acquired. (The following is cited by a dead link) A statutory right to sue has been considered \"property\" under this section.\n\nThe Commonwealth must also derive some benefit from the property acquired, that is, the Commonwealth can \"only legislate for the acquisition of Property for particular purposes\". Accordingly, the power does not extend to allow legislation designed merely to seek to extinguish the previous owner's title. The states and territories' powers of resumption on the other hand are not so limited. The section 43(1) of the Lands Acquisition Act 1998 (NT) grants the Minister the power to acquire land 'for any purpose whatever'. The High Court of Australia interpreted this provision literally, relieving the Territory government of any public purpose limitation on the power. This finding permitted the Territory government to acquire land subject to Native Title, effectively extinguishing the Native Title interest in the land. Kirby J in dissent, along with a number of commentators, viewed this as a missed opportunity to comment on the exceptional nature of powers of resumption exercised in the absence of a public purpose limitation.\n\nThe term \"resumption\" is a reflection of the fact that, as a matter of Australian law, all land was originally owned by the Crown before it was sold, leased or granted and that, through the act of compulsory acquisition, the Crown is \"resuming\" possession.\n\nBrazil's expropriation laws are governed by the Presidential Decree No. 3365 of July 21, 1941.\n\nArt. 19, No. 24, of the Chilean Constitution says in part, \"In no case may anyone be deprived of his property, of the assets affected or any of the essential faculties or powers of ownership, except by virtue of a general or a special law which authorizes expropriation for the public benefit or the national interest, duly qualified by the legislator. The expropriated party may protest the legality of the expropriation action before the ordinary courts of justice and shall, at all times, have the right to indemnification for patrimonial harm actually caused, to be fixed by mutual agreement or by a sentence pronounced by said courts in accordance with the law.\"\n\nIn Panama, the government must pay a fair amount of money to the owner of the property to be expropriated.\n\nThe Constitution originally provided for the right to property under Articles 19 and 31. Article 19 guaranteed to all citizens the right to 'acquire, hold and dispose of property'. Article 31 provided that \"No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.\" It also provided that compensation would be paid to a person whose property had been 'taken possession of or acquired' for public purposes. In addition, both the state government as well as the union (federal) government were empowered to enact laws for the \"acquisition or requisition of property\" (Schedule VII, Entry 42, List III). It is this provision that has been interpreted as being the source of the state's 'eminent domain' powers.\n\nThe provisions relating to the right to property were changed a number of times. The 44th amendment act of 1978 deleted the right to property from the list of Fundamental Rights. A new article, Article 300-A, was added to the constitution to provide, \"No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.\" Thus, if a legislature makes a law depriving a person of his property, it will not be unconstitutional. The aggrieved person shall have no right to move the court under Article 32. Thus, the right to property is no longer a fundamental right, though it is still a constitutional right. If the government appears to have acted unfairly, the action can be challenged in a court of law by citizens.\n\nLand acquisition in India is currently governed by The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, which came into force from 1 January 2014. Until 2013, land acquisition in India was governed by Land Acquisition Act of 1894. However the new LARR (amendment) ordinance 31 December 2014 diluted many clauses of the original act.\nThe liberalisation of the economy and the Government's initiative to set up special economic zones have led to many protests by farmers and have opened up a debate on the reinstatement of the fundamental right to private property.\n\nUnder the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, the government has the power to compulsorily acquire private land at the prevailing market rate for public purposes such as roads, highways, railways, dams, airports, etc.\n\nMany countries recognize eminent domain to a much lesser extent than the English-speaking world or do not recognize it at all. Japan, for instance, has very weak eminent domain powers, as evidenced by the high-profile opposition to the expansion of Narita International Airport, and the disproportionately large amounts of financial inducement given to residents on sites slated for redevelopment in return for their agreement to leave, one well-known recent case being that of Roppongi Hills.\n\nThere are other countries such as the People's Republic of China that practice eminent domain whenever it is convenient to make space for new communities and government structures. Singapore practices eminent domain under the Land Acquisitions Act, which allows it to carry out its Selective En bloc Redevelopment Scheme for urban renewal. The Amendments to the Land Titles Act allowed property to be purchased for purposes of urban renewal against an owner sharing a collective title if the majority of the other owners wish to sell and the minority did not. Thus, eminent domain often invokes concerns of majoritarianism.\n\nIn the Bahamas, the Acquisition of Land Act operates to permit the acquisition of land where it is deemed likely to be required for a public purpose. The land can be acquired by private agreement or compulsory purchase (s7 of the Act). Under section 24 of the Acquisition of Land Act, the purchaser may purchase the interest of the mortgagee of any land acquired under the Act. To do so, the purchaser must pay the principal sum and interest, together with costs and charges plus 6 months’ additional interest.\n\nSince the 1990s, the Zimbabwean government under Robert Mugabe has seized a great deal of land and homes of mainly white farmers in the course of the land reform movement in Zimbabwe. The government argued that such land reform was necessary to redistribute the land to Zimbabweans dispossessed of their lands during colonialism – these farmers were never compensated for this seizure.\n\n"}
{"id": "2526997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2526997", "title": "EnOcean", "text": "EnOcean\n\nThe EnOcean technology is an energy harvesting wireless technology used primarily in building automation systems, and is also applied to other applications in industry, transportation, logistics and smart homes. Modules based on EnOcean technology combine micro energy converters with ultra low power electronics, and enable wireless communications between batteryless wireless sensors, switches, controllers and gateways. \n\nIn March 2012, the EnOcean wireless standard was ratified as the international standard ISO/IEC 14543-3-10. The standard covers the OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) layers 1-3 which are the physical, data link and networking layers. \n\nThe energy harvesting wireless modules are manufactured and marketed by the company EnOcean which is based in Oberhaching, Germany. EnOcean offers its technology and licenses for the patented features within the EnOcean Alliance framework.\n\nEnOcean technology is based on the energetically efficient exploitation of slight mechanical motion and other potentials from the environment, such as indoor light and temperature differences, using the principles of energy harvesting. In order to transform such energy fluctuations into usable electrical energy, electromagnetic, solar, and thermoelectric energy converters are used. \n\nEnOcean-based products (such as sensors and light switches) perform without batteries and are engineered to operate maintenance-free. The radio signals from these sensors and switches can be transmitted wirelessly over a distance of up to 300 meters in the open and up to 30 meters inside buildings. Early designs from the company used piezo generators, but were later replaced with electromagnetic energy sources to reduce the operating force (3.5 newtons), and increase the service life to 100 operations a day for more than 25 years. \n\nEnOcean wireless data packets are relatively small, with the packet being only 14 bytes long and are transmitted at 125 kbit/s. RF energy is only transmitted for the 1's of the binary data, reducing the amount of power required. Three packets are sent at pseudo-random intervals reducing the possibility of RF packet collisions. Modules optimized for switching applications transmit additional data packets on release of push-button switches, enabling other features such as light dimming to be implemented. The transmission frequencies used for the devices are 902 MHz, 928.35 MHz, 868.3 MHz and 315 MHz. \nOn May 30, 2017 EnOcean unveiled a series of light switches utilizing Bluetooth Low Energy radio (2.4 GHz).\n\nOne example of the technology is a battery-free wireless light switch. Advantages are that\nit saves time and material by eliminating the need to install wires between the switch and\ncontrolled device, e.g., a light fixture. It also reduces noise on switched circuits, as the\nswitching is performed locally at the load. \nOther lighting applications include occupancy sensors, light sensors and key card switches. Furthermore, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (hvac) applications such as temperature sensors, humidity sensors, CO sensors, metering sensors already use EnOcean’s energy harvesting wireless technology.\n\nEnOcean GmbH is a venture-funded spin-off company of Siemens AG founded in 2001. It is a German company headquartered in Oberhaching, near Munich, which currently employs 60 employees in Germany and the USA. It is a technology supplier of self-powered modules (transmitters, receivers, transceivers, energy converter) to companies (e.g. Siemens Building Technologies, Distech Controls, Zumtobel, Omnio, Osram, Eltako, Wieland Electric, Pressac, Peha, Thermokon, Wago, Herga), which develop and manufacture products used in building automation (light, shading, hvac), industrial automation, and automotive industry (replacement of the conventional battery in tyre pressure sensors).\n\nThe company won the Bavarian Innovation Prize 2002 for its technology, the award \"Technology Pioneer 2006\" by the World Economic Forum, the \"Top-10 Product for 2007\" award by Building Green and was among the global cleantech 100 in 2011. \n\nIn November 2007, MK Electric, the manufacturer of consumer electrical fitments in the UK, adopted EnOcean technology for a wireless switches.\n\nIn April 2012, EnOcean wireless technology was ratified as the international wireless standard\nISO/IEC 14543-3-10 Information technology - Home Electronic Systems (HES) - Part 3-10:\nWireless Short-Packet (WSP) protocol optimized for energy harvesting - Architecture and\nlower layer protocols.\n\nA group of companies including EnOcean, Texas Instruments, Omnio, Sylvania, Masco, and MK Electric formed the EnOcean Alliance in April 2008 as a non-profit, mutual benefit corporation. The EnOcean Alliance aims to internationalise this technology, and is dedicated to creating interoperability between the products of OEM partners, in order to bring about the existence of a broad range of interoperable wireless monitoring and controlling products for use in and around residential,\ncommercial and industrial buildings. For this the EnOcean Alliance has drawn up the\napplication level protocols are referred to as EEPs (EnOcean Equipment Profiles). Together\nwith the three lower levels of the international wireless standard ISO/IEC 14543-3-10 the\nAlliance lay the foundation for a fully interoperable, open wireless technology. More than 250\ncompanies currently belong to the EnOcean Alliance. The headquarters of the organization is\nin San Ramon, California.\n\nMarket research company WTRS estimated that EnOcean module shipments might reach $1.4B in 2013.\n\nEnOcean is newly supported by Fhem and ago control.\nFhem and ago control are GPL licensed software suites for house automation. They are used to automate some common tasks in the household like switching lamps, shutters, heating, etc., and to log events like temperature, humidity, and power consumption. Both run as servers that are controlled via web front-end, telnet, command line, or TCP/IP directly.\n\n"}
{"id": "30824901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30824901", "title": "Ernest Gellhorn", "text": "Ernest Gellhorn\n\nErnest Gellhorn (1935–2005) was an American academic and legal scholar. He graduated from the University of Minnesota, the University of Minnesota Law School, and was a Guggenheim fellow. An expert on administrative and antitrust law, Gellhorn held a number of academic appointments, including dean of law in three universities: (Arizona State University, Case Western Reserve University, and the University of Washington). Additionally, he was Boyd Professor of Law at the University of Virginia, Foundation Professor of Law at George Mason University, and professor of law at\nDuke University.\n\nGellhorn also was active in the American Bar Association, practiced law in Washington D.C., and testified before government agencies such as the Federal Trade Commission.\n"}
{"id": "23400983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23400983", "title": "European Convention relating to the Formalities required for Patent Applications", "text": "European Convention relating to the Formalities required for Patent Applications\n\nThe European Convention relating to the formalities required for patent applications was signed at Paris on December 11, 1953. Its aim was to \"simplify and unify, as far as it is possible, the formalities required by the various national legislations for patent applications\". It was open to the signature of the members of the Council of Europe, came into force on June 1, 1955, and, after it came into force, became open to accession by all States which are members of the International Union for the Protection of Industrial Property. There were 21 ratifications or accessions to the Convention, including Israel and South Africa. Since then, all but five of the states parties have denounced the Convention (many of them in 1977 or 1978).\n\nThe Convention, along with the European Convention on the International Classification of Patents for Invention of 1954, resulted from the work of the Council of Europe's Committee of Experts in patent matters in the early 1950s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "939470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939470", "title": "Extended producer responsibility", "text": "Extended producer responsibility\n\nIn the field of waste management, extended producer responsibility (EPR) is a strategy designed to promote the integration of environmental costs associated with goods throughout their life cycles into the market price of the products. Extended producer responsibility legislation is a driving force behind the adoption of remanufacturing initiatives as it\n\"focuses on the end-of-use treatment of consumer products and has the primary aim to increase the amount and degree of product recovery and to minimize the environmental impact of waste materials\"\n\nThe concept was first formally introduced in Sweden by Thomas Lindhqvist in a 1990 report to the Swedish Ministry of the Environment. In subsequent reports prepared for the Ministry, the following definition emerged: \"[EPR] is an environmental protection strategy to reach an environmental objective of a decreased total environmental impact of a product, by making the manufacturer of the product responsible for the entire life-cycle of the product and especially for the take-back, recycling and final disposal.\n\nEPR uses financial incentives to encourage manufacturers to design environmentally friendly products by holding producers responsible for the costs of managing their products at end of life. This policy approach, which differs from product stewardship, which shares responsibility across the chain of custody of a product, attempts to relieve local governments of the costs of managing certain priority products by requiring manufacturers internalize the cost of recycling within the product price. EPR is based upon the principle that because producers (usually brand owners) have the greatest control over product design and marketing and these same companies have the greatest ability and responsibility to reduce toxicity and waste.\n\nEPR may take the form of a reuse, buy-back, or recycling program. The producer may also choose to delegate this responsibility to a third party, a so-called \"producer responsibility organization\" (PRO), which is paid by the producer for used-product management. In this way, EPR shifts the responsibility for waste management from government to private industry, obliging producers, importers and/or sellers to internalise waste management costs in their product prices and ensuring the safe handling of their products.\n\nA good example for producer responsibility organizations are the member organizations of PRO EUROPE. PRO EUROPE s.p.r.l. (Packaging Recovery Organisation Europe), founded in 1995, is the umbrella organization for European packaging and packaging waste recovery and recycling schemes. Product stewardship organizations like PRO EUROPE are intended to relieve industrial companies and commercial enterprises of their individual obligation to take back used products through the operation of an organization which fulfills these obligations on a nationwide basis on behalf of their member companies. The aim is to ensure the recovery and recycling of packaging waste in the most economically efficient and ecologically sound manner. In many countries, this is done through the Green Dot trademark of which PRO EUROPE is the general licensor. The Green Dot has evolved into a proven concept in many countries as implementation of Producer Responsibility. In twenty-five nations companies are now using the Green Dot as the financing symbol for the organization of recovery, sorting and recycling of sales packaging.\n\nIn response to all of the growing problem of excessive waste, several countries adopted waste management policies in which manufacturers are responsible for taking back their products from end users at the end of the products' useful life, or partially financing a collection and recycling infrastructure. These policies were adopted due to the lack of collection infrastructure for certain products that contain hazardous materials, or due to the high costs to local governments of providing such collection services. The primary goals of these take-back laws therefore are to partner with the private sector to ensure that all wastes are managed in a way that protects public health and the environment.\nThe goals of take-back laws are to\nTake-back programs help promote these goals by creating incentives for companies to redesign their products to minimize waste management costs, by designing their products to contain safer materials (so they do not need to be managed separately) or designing products that are easier to recycle and reuse (so recycling becomes more profitable). The earliest take-back activity began in Europe, where government-sponsored take-back initiatives arose from concerns about scarce landfill space and potentially hazardous substances in component parts. The European Union adopted a directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). The purpose of this directive is to prevent the production of waste electronics and also to encourage reuse and recycling of such waste. The directive requires the Member States to encourage design and production methods that take into account the future dismantling and recovery of their products. These take-back programs have been now adopted in nearly every OECD country. In the United States, most of these policies have been implemented at the state level, due to the political impasse at the federal level.\n\nRecycling, banning, and taxation fails to adequately reduce the pollution caused by plastic bags. An alternative to these policies would be to increase extended producer responsibility. In the US, under the Clinton presidency, the President's Council on Sustainable Development suggested EPR in order to target different participants in the cycle of a product's life. This can, however, make the product more expensive since the cost must be taken into consideration before being put on the market, which is why it is not widely used in the United States currently. Instead, there is banning or taxation of plastic bags, which puts the responsibility on the consumers. In the United States, EPR has not successfully been made mandatory, instead being voluntary. What has been recommended is a comprehensive program which combines taxation, producer responsibility, and recycling to combat pollution.\n\nMany governments and companies have adopted extended producer responsibility to help address the growing problem of e-waste — used electronics contain materials that cannot be safely thrown away with regular household trash. In 2007, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, people threw away 2.5 million tons of cell phones, TVs, computers, and printers. Many governments have partnered with corporations in creating the necessary collection and recycling infrastructure. Some argue that local and manufacturer-supported extended producer responsibility laws give manufacturers greater responsibility for the reuse, recycling, and disposal of their own products.\n\nThe kinds of chemicals found in e-waste that are particularly dangerous to human health and the environment are lead, mercury, brominated flame-retardants, and cadmium. Lead is found in the screens of phones, TVs and computer monitors and can damage kidneys, nerves, blood, bones, reproductive organs, and muscles. Mercury is found in the bulbs in flat screen TVs, laptop screens, and fluorescent bulbs, and can cause damage to the kidneys and the nervous system. Brominated flame-retardants found in cables and plastic cases can cause cancer, disruption of liver function, and nerve damage. Cadmium is found in rechargeable batteries and can cause kidney damage and cancer. Poorer countries are dumping grounds for the United States' e-waste as many governments accept money for disposing this waste on their lands. This causes increased health risks for people in these countries, especially ones who work or live close to these dumps.\n\nIn the United States, 25 states have implemented laws that require the recycling of electronic waste. Of those, 23 have incorporated some form of extended producer responsibility into their laws. According to analysis done by the Product Stewardship Institute, some states have not enacted EPR laws because of a lack of recycling infrastructure and funds for proper e-waste disposal. In contrast, according to a study of EPR legislation done by the Electronics TakeBack Coalition, states that have seen success in their e-waste recycling programs have done so because they have developed a convenient e-waste infrastructure or the state governments have instituted goals for manufacturers to meet. Essentially, these EPR programs have included some driver for increased collection of e-waste, and that is why these states have seen a greater impact on proper e-waste disposal than others. \n\nAdvocates for EPR also argue that including \"high expectations for performance\" into the laws, and ensuring that those are only minimum requirements, contribute to making the laws successful. In this way, manufacturers can be incentivized to collect more and dispose of e-waste more properly. Finally, the larger the scope of products that can be collected, the more e-waste will be disposed of properly.\n\nSimilar laws have been passed in other parts of the world as well. The European Union has taken steps to combat the issue of electronic waste management. They have restricted the use of harmful substances in member countries and have made it illegal to export waste. \n\nThe Chinese laws regarding e-waste are similar to the ones in the EU, but they focus on banning the import of e-waste. This has proven to be difficult, however, because illegal smuggling of waste still occurs in the country. In order to dispose of e-waste in China today, a license is required and plants are held responsible for treating pollution.\n\nWhen producers either face a financial or physical burden of recycling their electronics after use, they may be incentivized to design more sustainable, less toxic, and easily recyclable electronics. Using fewer materials and designing products to last longer can directly reduce producers' end-of-life costs. Thus, extended producer responsibility is often cited as one way to fight planned obsolescence, because it financially encourages manufacturers to design for recycling and make products last longer.\n\nSome people have concerns about extended producer responsibility programs for complex electronics that can be difficult to safely recycle, such as lithium-ion polymer batteries. Others worry that such laws could increase the cost of electronics because producers would add recycling costs into the initial price tag. When companies are required to transport their products to a recycling facility, it can be expensive if the product contains hazardous materials and does not have a scrap value, such as with CRT televisions, which can contain up to five pounds of lead. Organizations and researchers against EPR claim that the mandate would slow innovation and impede technological progress. \n\nOther critics are concerned that manufacturers may use takeback programs to take secondhand electronics off the reuse market, by shredding rather than reusing or repairing goods that come in for recycling. Another argument against EPR is that EPR policies are not accelerating environmentally-friendly designs because \"manufacturers are already starting to moving toward reduced material-use per unit of output, reduced energy use in making and delivering each product, and improved environmental performance.\"\n\nThe Reason Foundation argues that EPR is not clear in the way fees are established for the particular recycling processes. Fees are set in place to help incentivize recycling, but this may deter the use of manufacturing with better materials for the different electronic products. There are not set fees for certain materials, so confusion occurs when companies do not know what design features to include in their devices.\n\nEPR has been implemented in many forms, which may be classified into three major approaches:\n\nIt is perhaps because of the tendency of economic policy in market-driven economies not to interfere with consumers' preferences that the producer-centric representation is the dominant form of viewing the environmental impacts of industrial production: in statistics on energy, emissions, water, etc., impacts are almost always presented as attributes of industries (\"on-site\" or \"direct\" allocation) rather than as attributes of the supply chains of products for consumers. On a smaller scale, most existing schemes for corporate sustainability reporting include only impacts that arise out of operations controlled by the reporting company, and not supply-chain impacts According to this world view, \"upstream and downstream [environmental] impacts are ... allocated to their immediate producers. The institutional setting and the different actors' spheres of influence are not reflected\".\n\nOn the other hand, a number of studies have highlighted that final consumption and affluence, especially in the industrialised world, are the main drivers for the level and growth of environmental pressure. Even though these studies provide a clear incentive for complementing producer-focused environmental policy with some consideration for consumption-related aspects, demand-side measures to environmental problems are rarely exploited.\n\nThe nexus created by the different views on impacts caused by industrial production is exemplified by several contributions to the discussion about producer or consumer responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions data are reported to the IPCC as contributions of producing industries located in a particular country rather than as embodiments in products consumed by a particular population, irrespective of productive origin. However, especially for open economies, taking into account the greenhouse gases embodied in internationally traded commodities can have a considerable influence on national greenhouse gas balance sheets. Assuming consumer responsibility, exports have to be subtracted from, and imports added to national greenhouse gas inventories. In Denmark, for example, Munksgaard and Pedersen (2001) report that a significant amount of power and other energy-intensive commodities are traded across Danish borders, and that between 1966 and 1994 the Danish foreign trade balance in terms of CO developed from a 7 Mt deficit to a 7 Mt surplus, compared to total emissions of approximately 60 Mt. In particular, electricity traded between Norway, Sweden and Denmark is subject to large annual fluctuations due to varying rainfall in Norway and Sweden. In wet years Denmark imports hydro-electricity whereas electricity from coal-fired power plants is exported in dry years. The official Danish emissions inventory includes a correction for electricity trade and thus applies the consumer responsibility principle.\n\nSimilarly, at the company level, \"when adopting the concept of eco-efficiency and the scope of an environmental management system stated in for example ISO 14001, it is insufficient to merely report on the carbon dioxide emissions limited to the judicial borders of the company\". 7 \"Companies must recognise their wider responsibility and manage the entire life-cycle of their products ... Insisting on high environmental standards from suppliers and ensuring that raw materials are extracted or produced in an environmentally conscious way provides a start.\" A life-cycle perspective is also taken in EPR frameworks: \"Producers of products should bear a significant degree of responsibility (physical and/or financial) not only for the environmental impacts of their products downstream from the treatment and disposal of their product, but also for their upstream activities inherent in the selection of materials and in the design of products.\" \"The major impetus for EPR came from northern European countries in the late 1980s and early 1990s, as they were facing severe landfill shortages. [... As a result,] EPR is generally applied to post-consumer wastes which place increasing physical and financial demands on municipal waste management.\"\n\nEPR has rarely been consistently quantified. Moreover, applying conventional life cycle assessment, and assigning environmental impacts to producers and consumers can lead to double-counting. Using input-output analysis, researchers have attempted for decades to account for both producers and consumers in an economy in a consistent way. Gallego and Lenzen demonstrate and discuss a method of consistently delineating producers' supply chains, into mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive responsibilities to be shared by all agents in an economy. Their method is an approach to allocating responsibility across agents in a fully inter-connected circular system. Upstream and downstream environmental impacts are shared between all agents of a supply chain – producers and consumers.\n\nAuto Recycling Nederland (ARN) is a producer responsibility organisation (PRO) that organises vehicle recycling in the Netherlands. An advanced recycling fee is charged to those who purchase a new vehicle and is used to fund the recycling of it at the end of its useful life. The PRO was set up to satisfy the European Union's End of Life Vehicles Directive.\n\nThe Swiss Association for Information, Communication and Organisational Technology (SWICO), an ICT industry organisation, became a PRO to address the problem of electronic waste.\n\nThe Canada-Wide Action Plan for Extended Producer Responsibility (CAP-EPR) was adopted in Canada in 2009 under the guidance of the Canadian Council of Ministers of the Environment. The CAP-EPR followed years of waste and recycling efforts in Canada that remained largely ineffective as the diversion rates from landfills and incineration persisted. Despite three decades worth of recycling efforts, Canada fell short of many other G8 and OECD countries. Since the CAP-EPR’s 2009 inception, most provinces have enforced legislation or restrictions on a wider range of products and materials under EPR programs. “Nine out of ten provinces have [since implemented] EPR programs or [put] requirements in place… As a result of these new programs or requirements and expansion of existing ones, almost half of the product categories for Phase 1 are now covered by legislated EPR programs or requirements across Canada.”\n\nIn Germany, since the adoption of EPR, \"between 1991 and 1998, the per capita consumption of packaging was reduced from 94.7 kg to 82 kg, resulting in a reduction of 13.4%\". Furthermore, due to Germany's influence in EPR, the \"European Commission developed one waste directive\" for all of member states (Hanisch 2000). One major goal was to have all member states recycle \"25% of all packaging material\" and have accomplished the goal.\n\nIn the United States, EPR is gaining popularity \"with 40 such laws enacted since 2008. In 2010 alone, 38 such EPR bills were introduced in state legislatures across the United States, and 12 were signed into law.\" However, these laws are only at the state level as there are no federal laws for EPR. So far, \"only a handful of states have imposed five to six EPR laws as well as 32 states having at least one EPR law\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9260500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9260500", "title": "Factions of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party", "text": "Factions of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party\n\nThroughout history, there were a number of political factions within the RSDLP (Russian Social Democratic Labour Party), in addition to the major split of Bolsheviks and Mensheviks.\n\n"}
{"id": "36030876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36030876", "title": "French Sudan constitutional referendum, 1958", "text": "French Sudan constitutional referendum, 1958\n\nA referendum on the new constitution of France was held in French Sudan on 28 September 1958 as part of a wider referendum held across the French Union. The new constitution would see the country become part of the new French Community if accepted, or result in independence if rejected. It was approved by 97.54% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "27550585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27550585", "title": "Gaza flotilla raid", "text": "Gaza flotilla raid\n\nThe Gaza flotilla raid was a military operation by Israel against six civilian ships of the \"Gaza Freedom Flotilla\" on 31 May 2010 in international waters in the Mediterranean Sea. Nine activists were killed on one ship during the raid and ten Israeli soldiers were wounded, one seriously. One Turkish activist died later of his wounds. Three of the six flotilla ships, organized by the Free Gaza Movement and the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights and Freedoms and Humanitarian Relief (İHH), were carrying humanitarian aid and construction materials, with the intention of breaking the Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip. Israel had warned the flotilla to abort their mission, describing it as a provocation. \n\nOn 31 May 2010, Israeli Shayetet 13 naval commandos boarded the ships from speedboats and helicopters in order to force the ships to the Israeli port of Ashdod for inspection. On the Turkish ship MV \"Mavi Marmara\", according to the Israel's own Turkel Commission, the Israeli Navy faced resistance from about 40 of the 590 passengers, including IHH activists – described in the commission's report as a separate \"hardcore group\" – who were said to be armed with iron bars and knives. According to flotilla organizer Greta Berlin, the Israeli soldiers didn't start firing until an activist seized a gun from one of them. During the struggle, nine activists were killed including eight Turkish nationals and one Turkish American, and many were wounded. On 23 May 2014, a tenth member of the flotilla died in hospital after being in a coma for four years. Five of the activists who were killed had previously declared their desire to become shaheeds. Ten of the commandos were also wounded, one of them seriously.\n\nAccording to a UN report, all activist deaths were caused by gunshots, and \"the circumstances of the killing of at least six of the passengers were in a manner consistent with an extra-legal, arbitrary and summary execution.\" The five other ships in the flotilla employed passive resistance, which was suppressed without major incident. According to the UN report, several of the passengers were injured and the leg of one was fractured. The ships were towed to Israel. Some were deported immediately, while about 600 were detained after they refused to sign deportation orders; a few of them were slated for prosecution. After international criticism, all of the detained activists were also deported.\n\nThe raid drew widespread condemnation internationally and resulted in a deterioration of Israel–Turkey relations. Israel consequently eased its blockade on the Gaza Strip. All activists were freed, yet only the Turkish and Greek ships were returned. Israel confiscated and continues to hold the other ships, as well as most of the property (including all media recordings) of over 700 passengers.\n\nThere were several probes into the incident. A UNHRC report in September 2010 into the incident deemed the blockade illegal and stated that Israel's actions were \"disproportionate\" and \"betrayed an unacceptable level of brutality\", with evidence for \"willful killing\". The UNHRC later also set up a panel of five human rights experts to examine the conclusions of the Palmer report. The panel stated that Israel's blockade of Gaza amounted to collective punishment and was unlawful. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon announced a parallel probe in August 2010 by a four-member panel headed by Geoffrey Palmer. The Palmer report was published on 2 September 2011 after being delayed, reportedly to allow Israel and Turkey to continue reconciliation talks. The report found that the Israeli naval blockade of Gaza was legal, and that there were \"serious questions about the conduct, true nature and objectives of the flotilla organizers, particularly IHH\". The report also found that the degree of force used against the \"Mavi Marmara\" was \"excessive and unreasonable\", and that the way Israel treated detained crew members violated international human rights law.\n\nIsrael has offered Turkey $20 million in compensation for the raid. On 22 March 2013, in a half-hour telephone exchange between Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the former apologized on behalf of his nation; Erdoğan accepted the apology and both agreed to enter into further discussions. On June 29, 2016 the agreement was finalized and approved by the Israeli government.\n\nThe operation, code named \"Operation Sea Breeze\" or \"Operation Sky Winds\" was an attempt to block the Free Gaza Movement's ninth attempt to break the naval blockade imposed by Israel on the Gaza Strip. Israel proposed inspecting the cargo at the Port of Ashdod and then delivering non-blockaded goods through land crossings, but this proposal was turned down. Israeli forces then raided and seized the Gaza-bound ships in international waters of the Mediterranean.\n\nIsraeli Navy warships flanked the flotilla and an aircraft flew overhead after it ignored Israeli instructions. Speedboats were prevented from approaching the \"Mavi Marmara\" by throwing broken dishes and metal chains. The other ships were boarded from speedboats. Israeli forces were met by passive resistance on five of the ships, but clashes broke out aboard the \"Mavi Marmara\". A team of 15 Israeli Shayetet 13 naval commandos abseiled onto the ships from helicopters with paintball guns, plastic bullet riot dispersal handguns, and hidden firearms. The first team commander was thrown over the deck head down, abducted and stabbed, along with a second commando, and a third was grabbed off the rope. They were taken to an inside room and medically treated by the activists, who left the knife in the commander's stomach. A stun grenade from the abducted soldiers was thrown at the commandos and a handgun was allegedly taken from one soldiers and fired by an activist, who was intercepted. The commandos were ordered to use live fire. In the melee, five activists were killed, and two, wounded by rubber bullets, died a short time later. According to the Israeli timeline video, within 5 minutes the roof was secured, with the assistance of an extra 15 man commando unit. Only 15 minutes later the commandos began the ship takeover with live ammunition and a third team of fighters. The soldier's captors escaped, and the Israeli commander pulled the knife out of his body and jumped overboard along with a second soldier. The third, with severe head injury was left and found by his comrades later. The raid ended with nine activists killed, and dozens injured. A UNHRC fact-finding mission described six of the nine passengers' deaths as \"summary execution\" by the Israeli commandos. A BBC documentary concluded that Israeli forces had faced a violent premeditated attack by a group of hardcore IHH activists, who intended to orchestrate a political act to put pressure on Israel. The programme was criticised as \"biased\" by critics of Israel and the PSC (Palestine Solidarity Campaign) questioned why the IDF boarded the ship at night if it had peaceful intention. Seven Israeli commandos were injured in the skirmish. After seizing control of the ships, Israeli forces towed them to Ashdod and detained the passengers. Both sides place responsibility for the bloodshed on the other, and accounts of the events vary.\n\nThe raid prompted widespread international reactions and demonstrations around the world. The United Nations Security Council condemned \"those acts resulting in civilian deaths\", demanded an impartial investigation of the raid, and called for the immediate release of civilians held by Israel. Israel released all passengers of the flotilla by 6 June 2010. The incident threatened the already deteriorating relations between Turkey and Israel. Turkish president Abdullah Gül described the raid as an attack on Turkey for the first time since World War I.\n\nIsrael initially rejected calls from the United Nations and world governments for an international investigation into its raid on the Gaza aid flotilla, but later agreed to cooperate with an investigation conducted by the United Nations. Israel formed the Turkel Committee to investigate the raid. The committee, headed by retired Supreme Court of Israel judge Jacob Turkel, included two international observers. The conclusions of an internal inquiry by the Israel Defense Forces under retired general Giora Eiland were presented to the chief of staff, Gabi Ashkenazi on 12 July 2010. Eiland's report found that the naval commandos had carried out their duties with professionalism, bravery and resourcefulness, and the commanders had exhibited correct decision making. The report further determined, \"the use of live fire was justified and that the entire operation was estimable.\" In August 2010, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon announced that the U.N. would conduct an investigation of the incident. A separate investigation was conducted by the United Nations Human Rights Council. The findings of this committee, published on 22 September 2010, called the Israeli operation \"disproportionate\" and condemned its \"unacceptable level of brutality\". The UN Human Rights Council had also condemned the raid in June, before its investigation. Another resolution backing the report was passed despite American opposition and EU abstention. Israel accused the UNHRC of a biased, politicized and extremist approach. Benjamin Netanyahu described the actions of the soldiers as a clear case of self-defense. The Israeli Supreme Court, which rejected several local legal suits against the flotilla raid, wrote in its verdict, \"the soldiers were forced to respond in order to defend their lives.\"\n\nFive shipments had been allowed through prior to the 2008–09 Gaza War, but all shipments following the war were blocked by Israel. This flotilla was the largest to date. An Islamic aid group from Turkey, the İHH (İnsani Yardım Vakfı) (Foundation for Human Rights and Freedoms and Humanitarian Relief) sponsored a large passenger ship and two cargo ships.\n\nOn 22 March 2013 Netanyahu apologised for the incident in a 30-minute telephone call with Erdoğan, stating that the results were unintended; the Turkish prime minister accepted apology and agreed to enter into discussions to resolve the compensation issue. Following the telephone apology, Israel's Channel 10 television channel reported that compensation talks had commenced; however, a disparity became immediately apparent, as Turkey sought $1 million for each of the flotilla deaths, while Israel response was $100,000. As of 27 March 2013, an agreement was made between the two nations in regard to three points: 1. Compensation will only be paid to the family members of the people killed aboard the Marmara; 2. Confirmation of a signed commitment from Turkey, whereby Turkey will be unable to sue Israel over the incident; 3. The Turkish government will return the monetary compensation to Israel in the event that civilian lawsuits are ever filed by Turkish citizens; a meeting was also planned for the discussion of future relations between Turkey and Israel.\n\nOne of participants of the Gaza flotilla, Sinan Albayrak, told the Turkish newspaper \"Akşam\" in response to the Israeli apology, \"[w]hat is the importance of the apology? 'We killed nine people and are sorry' – of course it sounds ridiculous. I say this is what the state should have done. If [Turkey] only had prevented this at the start. But we asked for it. We went there ourselves.\" According to \"Hürriyet Daily News\" Semih Idiz, some Turkish citizens are even suggesting that those involved with the Mavi Marmara incident should also bring charges against the Turkish state for playing a prominent role in supporting the Mavi Marmara's mission and for failing to prevent the death of nine Turks on the ship.\n\nThe Gaza Freedom Flotilla, organized by the Free Gaza Movement and the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights and Freedoms and Humanitarian Relief (İHH), was carrying humanitarian aid and construction materials, with the intention of breaking the Israeli-Egyptian blockade of the Gaza Strip. Israel questioned the humanitarian motives of flotilla organizers, saying it had invited the organizers to use the land crossings but they had refused.\n\nThree of the flotilla ships carried only passengers and their personal belongings. Whereas in previous voyages, Free Gaza vessels carried 140 passengers in total, in this flotilla, over 600 activists were on board the \"Mavi Marmara\" alone.\n\nThree other ships carried cargo: 10,000 tons of humanitarian aid, with an estimated value of $20 million. Reports disagree about the presence and quantity of paramilitary equipment.\n\nFor the initial leg of the voyage, six of the eight ships set out on 30 May 2010 from international waters off the coast of Cyprus; the remaining two were delayed by mechanical problems. There are suggestions that the IDF or Mossad may have sabotaged three of the ships before the raid.\n\nThe IDF or the Mossad may have sabotaged three of the ships before the raid. According to the \"National Post\", Israeli deputy defense minister Matan Vilnai hinted that Israel had exhausted covert means of stalling the vessels. He said: \"Everything was considered. I don't want to elaborate beyond that, because the fact is there were not up to 10, or however many ships were [originally] planned.\" A senior IDF officer hinted to the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee that some of the vessels had been tampered with to halt them far from the Gaza or Israeli coast. According to UPI press coverage, the officer alluded to \"grey operations\" against the flotilla and said that no such action had been taken against the Mavi Marmara out of fear that the vessel might be stranded in the middle of the sea, endangering the people on board. Israel was accused of sabotaging activist ships in the past but no evidence has been found to back up these claims.\n\nThree ships – the \"Rachel Corrie\", the \"Challenger I\" and the \"Challenger II\" – suffered damage or malfunction. While the \"Challenger I\" was able to continue, the \"Challenger II\" had to turn back halfway through the journey and \"Rachel Corrie\" docked for repairs in Malta. Greta Berlin of the Free Gaza Movement said that electric wires may have been tampered with.\n\nThe ships of the Gaza flotilla raid comprised three passenger ships and three cargo ships:\n\nTwo other Free Gaza Movement ships had mechanical problems: \"Challenger 2\" (USA flagged) had to turn back halfway through the voyage and MV \"Rachel Corrie\" (Cambodia flagged) docked in Malta for repairs and continued separately.\n\nA few minutes after 9:00 pm, Sa'ar 5-class corvettes INS \"Lahav\" and INS \"Hanit\", and the Sa'ar 4-class missile boat INS \"Nitzachon\" left Haifa naval base to intercept the flotilla. The three warships had speedboats, UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters, and 71 Shayetet 13 commandos on board. The Israeli Navy made initial contact with the flotilla at 11 p.m. (2000 UTC) on 30 May, about northwest of Gaza, off the coast of southern Lebanon, in international waters, ordering the ships to follow them to port or otherwise be boarded.\n\nThe Shayetet 13 commandos who participated in the operation underwent a month of training prior to the operation, including dummy takeovers of a ship at sea with fifty soldiers performing the role of activists. The Israeli Navy said that the soldiers were trained for \"a Bil'in-type opposition\". Ron Ben-Yishai, a veteran Israeli correspondent aboard the Israeli missile boat \"INS Nitzachon\", reported that the assessment was that the passengers would show \"light resistance and possibly minor violence\". The soldiers were armed with paintball guns, stun grenades, tasers, and pistols as sidearms, which were attached to their backs. The soldiers had orders to confront protesters and peacefully convince them to give up, and if not successful, to use non-lethal force to commandeer the ship. They were instructed to use their sidearms only in an emergency, when their lives were at risk.\n\nAhead of the operation, the soldiers were briefed by Vice-Admiral Eli Marom, the commander of the Israeli Navy. Marom stated that the IDF had no intention of harming any flotilla passengers and would act professionally. He also warned soldiers that the passengers could provoke them in ways such as throwing cigarettes, spitting, and cursing, but, \"we do not respond to these types of actions. We act as professional soldiers do\".\n\nThe Israeli Navy radioed Tural Mahmut, the captain of the \"Mavi Marmara\", sending him this message: \"Mavi Marmara, you are approaching an area of hostilities, which is under a naval blockade. The Gaza coastal area and Gaza Harbour are closed to all maritime traffic. The Israeli government supports delivery of humanitarian supplies to the civilian population in Gaza Strip and invites you to enter Ashdod port. Delivery of supplies will be in accordance with the authorities' regulations and through the formal land crossing to Gaza and under your observation, after which you can return to your home ports aboard the vessels on which you arrived.\" The reply was: \"Negative, negative. Our destination is Gaza.\" Shortly after, three Israeli warships began shadowing the flotilla. Two warships flanked the flotilla on either side, but at a distance. An Israeli aircraft also flew overhead.\n\nFive days after the raid, IDF released an audio recording purporting to be of a radio exchange between the Israeli Navy and the flotilla. After Israeli warnings that the ships were approaching a blockade, voices responded \"Go back to Auschwitz!\" and \"Don't forget 9/11\". Denis Healey, the captain of \"Challenger I\", and activist Huwaida Arraf who was on the bridge of the ship, disputed the authenticity of the recording. Israel conceded that it was impossible to trace who made the comments, or from which ship, because they were made on an open channel. An Israeli journalist who was on board an IDF ship confirmed the IDF accounts.\n\nHours before the raid, the head of the İHH, Fehmi Bülent Yıldırım, declared, \"We're going to defeat the Israeli commandos–we're declaring it now. If you bring your soldiers here, we will throw you off the ship and you'll be humiliated in front of the whole world.\" Later, according to the crew, a group of about 40 İHH activists took over the ship.\n\nThe Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center (ITIC), an Israeli non-governmental organization that, according to \"Haaretz\", is \"widely seen as an unofficial branch of Israel's intelligence community\", said that, based on laptop files and passenger testimony, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had prior knowledge that the activists on the flotilla would use violence. In addition, the ITIC said a group of 40 \"militant\" activists boarded before the rest of the passengers, were not searched as they boarded, and that İHH President Fehmi Bülent Yıldırım had briefed this group with a mission of keeping Israelis from taking control of the ship.\n\nThe IDF identified a group of some 50 men who were responsible for attacking IDF soldiers. The members of this group were not carrying identity cards or passports, but each carried an envelope with some $10,000 in cash. The Israeli defense establishment suspected that the funding may have come from elements in the Turkish government. One member of the group, who was identified as its ringleader, travelled to Bursa to recruit members. The members were stationed in groups throughout the ship, mostly on the upper deck, and communicated with each other via walkie-talkies. The members were well-trained and equipped with gas masks and bulletproof vests.\n\nThe \"Mavi Maramara\" activists were divided into two groups, \"peace activists\" and a \"hardcore group\". Video footage shows the \"hardcore group\" activists prepared before the raid, praying together while wearing uniforms, taking their gas masks and makeshift weapons, and getting into position. Activists dressed in protective clothing from construction materials.\n\nThe boarding of the \"Mavi Marmara\" started in the early morning at 4:30 IST. The operation began with an attempt to board the ship from speedboats. As the boats approached, activists fired water hoses at them, and pelted them with a variety of objects. The Israelis replied with paintballs and stun grenades. One stun grenade was picked up and tossed back into a boat. When the commandos tried boarding the ship, activists cut the ladders with electric disc saws. The boats then turned slightly away from the ship, but remained close.\n\nThe IDF then sent in a Black Hawk helicopter with a 15-man assault team on board. According to the IDF, the commandos fired warning shots and dropped stun grenades prior to abseiling onto the ship. The UNHRC report on the incident concluded that the Israeli soldiers were firing live rounds from the helicopter before they landed anyone on the ship. Passengers reported gunfire, blue flares and deafening noise from the first helicopter at this time. Al Jazeera journalist Jamal Elshayyal stated that he saw one man shot in the head and others wounded. Robert Mackey of \"The New York Times\" suggested that the passengers on the ship may have mistaken flash grenades and paintball guns for deadly weapons, which enraged them. Activists and crew members used gas masks.\n\nA rope was dropped from the helicopter onto the ship, but three activists seized it and tied it to the deck. A second rope was dropped and the soldiers abseiled onto the deck. Each soldier was met with a team of resisting activists, throwing them off balance and assaulting them with makeshift weapons. The IDF also reported that a firebomb was thrown at soldiers. Meanwhile, the Israeli commandos responded with their less-lethal weaponry and attempted to physically fight off activists.\n\nThree Israeli commandos were captured. The first captured soldier, the commanding officer of the assault team, was abseiling from the helicopter when he was attacked by ten men before his feet hit the deck. He was beaten across his body and head, then picked up and thrown to the lower deck, where he was attacked by a dozen activists. They beat and choked him, removed his bulletproof vest and sidearm and smashed his helmet, and shoved him into a passenger hall below deck. The second soldier was surrounded by a team of fifteen to twenty activists in two groups. One group attacked him when he landed on the ship's roof. He fired one shot at an activist holding a knife before being subdued. The activists seized his gun and beat him as he attempted to fight them off with his back to the hull. He was picked up by his arms and legs, and thrown over the hull. He attempted to hang onto the hull with both hands, but was forced to let go when activists beat his hands and pulled him down by his legs. He was then surrounded by another group of activists, stabbed in the stomach and dragged into a lounge while being beaten. A third soldier who was lowered onto the deck saw an activist waiting to attack him with an iron crowbar. After shoving him away, he was attacked by four more activists, one of whom wrapped a chain around his neck and choked him until he lost consciousness. He was then thrown onto the bridge deck, where he was attacked by about twenty activists, who beat him, cut away his equipment, and dragged him into the lounge. The three soldiers were severely wounded and bleeding heavily. Two of the soldiers had their hands tied, and a third was unconscious and went into convulsions. During their captivity, they were subjected to physical and verbal abuse, and photographed and filmed. One of the soldiers said that he was beaten after he began moving and yelling that one of the soldiers needed a doctor, and another said that he was placed onto a couch, beaten, and threatened that he would be beaten every time he moved. Although radical activists attempted to harm them further, more moderate passengers intervened and protected the soldiers. Two were given water and one with a severe stomach wound was given a gauze pad. Hasan Huseyin Uysal, a Turkish doctor, cleaned the blood off their faces and tended to facial cuts.\n\nIsrael and the flotilla activists disagreed over whether guns seized from the captive soldiers were used by the activists. Commandos reported that at least two of the captive soldiers had their sidearms wrested away, and that there was live fire against them at a later stage. According to the IDF, activists also used firearms that they brought along with them, as investigators found bullet casings not matching IDF-issued guns. The IDF reported that the second soldier to descend from the first helicopter was shot in the stomach, and another soldier was shot in the knee. IDF Chief of Staff Gabi Ashkenazi said that activists also seized three stun grenades from soldiers.\n\nAfter the third soldier was thrown from the roof, the commandos requested and received permission to use live fire. The soldiers then opened fire with pistols, and activists dispersed to the front and back of the roof after taking casualties. An IDF medical officer on board located a secure spot, and oversaw treatment of injured soldiers. A second helicopter carrying 12 soldiers arrived over the ship. As the helicopter approached, activists attacked the IDF commandos, who repulsed them with gunshots aimed at their legs. At the same time, the speedboats trailing the ship approached again. They were met with a barrage of objects, including iron balls from slingshots, and allegedly with a burst of gunfire, forcing the boats to pull back again.\n\nSoldiers from the second helicopter successfully slid down and moved to gain control of the front of the roof and secure the lower decks. Passengers attacked them, and were dispersed with shots fired towards their legs. The first attempt to secure the lower decks was met with violent resistance, allegedly including live fire. Shortly afterward, a third helicopter arrived, carrying 14 soldiers. They successfully abseiled onto the ship, and the commander from the third helicopter met up with the commander from the second helicopter, after which the forces began moving towards the ship's bridge. They were attacked twice by activists, and responded with gunfire. The commandos reached the bridge after thirty minutes, and took command. Upon orders from the soldiers, the captain instructed all activists to enter their cabins. At this stage, most of the activists assembled on the sides of the ship retreated into the hull. The speedboats approached for a third time, and most of the remaining activists again hurled objects at the boats. Soldiers inside the boats then opened fire, taking careful aim to hit the resisting passengers and forcing the activists to disperse, enabling the soldiers to board from ladders. The soldiers were met with resistance, and responded with live fire. They managed to fight their way to the roof, where they met up with the rest of the force. An assessment was made, and three soldiers were found to be missing. A force was prepared to rush the passenger halls and locate the soldiers. According to the IDF, soldiers spotted activists escorting the three captive soldiers onto the deck. One of the captive soldiers said that the activist guarding him waved to one of the IDF naval vessels to show that they were holding Israeli soldiers. At that point, he elbowed the activist in the ribs and jumped into the water, although the guard tried to hold him back. A second soldier also jumped into the water, while the third remained unconscious on the deck. IDF soldiers dispersed the activists with non-lethal weapons, and rescued the unconscious soldier, while the two soldiers in the water were picked up by the speedboats. According to some accounts by activists and journalists, the captive soldiers were released after negotiations mediated by Haneen Zoabi, in which the IDF agreed to airlift the wounded in exchange for their release.\nThe passengers were taken one-by-one from their cabins and searched on deck. Some were handcuffed and forced to kneel for hours. Women, elderly men, and western nationals were temporarily handcuffed or uncuffed shortly afterward and allowed to sit on benches. During the course of the journey to Ashdod port, passengers were brought inside and allowed to sit down. According to the UNHRC fact-finding mission, passengers were subject to various forms of abuse.\n\nIDF Lieutenant-General Gabi Ashkenazi testified to Israel's Turkel Commission that the IDF had fired 308 live rounds and about 350 bean bag rounds and paintballs. An aide to the general said that 70 of these shots were aimed to cause injury, while the others would have been warning shots. IDF Major-General Giora Eiland said that the IDF had found evidence of four instances of soldiers coming under fire from activists, and that in at least one case, the fire came from weapons that were not stolen from commandos.\n\nThe operation to take the \"Sfendoni\" took place at the same time as the boarding of the \"Mavi Marmara\". The \"Sfendoni\" attempted to evade Israeli naval vessels. According to one soldier, the ship attempted to run down his vessel, and chased it after it evaded, but the IDF vessel made a sharp turn and positioned itself behind it. Speedboats approached the ship, and soldiers climbed onto the ship from ladders after firing plastic bullets, paintballs, and stun grenades. Some soldiers were shoved down a ladder onto the lower deck, where a group of passengers scuffled with soldiers, and an attempt was made to take a soldiers' weapon. Once on board, the soldiers advanced towards the bridge. A number of activists formed a human chain to block them, and the Israelis responded with electric shocks.\n\nRetired diplomat Edward Peck, who was on board the \"Sfendoni\", said that the commandos were well-trained, and behaved reasonably well. When two soldiers entered the bridge, an activist grabbed the wheel tightly and protested that the boat was in international waters. A scuffle then ensued between soldiers and a few activists. The soldiers used physical force, electric shocks, and stun grenades to gain control, but there were no major injuries. Paul Larudee, a 64-year-old former linguistics professor from El Cerrito, California, on board the \"Sfendoni\", was beaten and tased according to his family, who said that Israeli consular officials informed them that Larudee, a pacifist, was beaten after refusing to follow the orders of troops.\n\nWhen the boat was under Israeli control, activists were made to sit down and restrained with plastic ties. One man who complained that the plastic ties were too tight had them removed, then ran and jumped overboard, and was picked up by another boat. Passengers were searched one-by-one and then taken to the main salon. They were allowed to prepare food, but refused to eat until an IDF cameraman ceased filming them.\n\nSwedish author Henning Mankell reported that the capture of the \"Free Mediterranean\" took place about an hour after the raid on the \"Mavi Marmara\". Israeli soldiers boarded the ship from three speedboats, and managed to bypass barbed wire that had been placed around the ship. The passengers formed a human ring on the bridge to block the soldiers, and Israeli troops responded by using physical force, electric shocks, plastic and rubber bullets, paintballs, and tear gas. A reporter for the German newspaper \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" wrote that Israeli soldiers approached passengers with guns drawn and tasered a 65-year-old person from a distance of ten centimeters. All of the passengers were handcuffed and subjected to body searches and had their passports confiscated. Those who refused to cooperate were reportedly met with physical force.\n\nThe \"Challenger 1\" accelerated its course in an attempt to allow journalists on board to broadcast their photos of the ongoing raid. The ship was intercepted by two Israeli speedboats and a helicopter, and carried out evasion tactics, forcing the Israelis to pursue it for a considerable distance. According to passengers, at least one stun grenade was launched at the \"Challenger 1\" before it was boarded. Passengers on the decks formed a human chain to block the path of the troops. Soldiers opened fire with paintball guns and rubber and plastic bullets as they boarded the vessel, lightly injuring two female demonstrators. Once on board, the Israelis moved towards the fly bridge. The soldiers encountered verbal abuse, and attempts were made to shove soldiers. Some activists barricaded themselves in cabins. Activist Huwaida Arraf reported that Israeli soldiers attacked those who tried to block them with kicks, tasers, and concussion grenades, and that some people were beaten so severely that they had to be hospitalized. Arraf said that the Israelis smashed her face against the ground and stepped on it, and that they later handcuffed her and put a bag over her head. Another woman similarly had a bag placed over her head. First mate Shane Dillon reported that Israeli troops broke the nose of a Belgian woman and beat another passenger. Australian photojournalist Kate Geraghty was tasered while attempting to photograph the raid. Upon entering the bridge, the troops were met with no resistance.\n\nPassengers were handcuffed with plastic ties. Activist Huwaida Arraf reported that Israeli troops confiscated communication equipment, cameras and memory cards. Upon entering Ashdod port, several passengers joined hands and refused to disembark, protesting that they had been brought to Israel against their will from international waters. Two female passengers were handcuffed and forcibly removed, while a male passenger was threatened with a taser.\n\nThe \"Gazze 1\" was boarded by soldiers from speedboats. Passengers and crew on board offered no resistance, and the ship was commandeered without incident. Passengers were ordered onto the deck while dogs searched the ship, and were later taken to the dining hall and body-searched. They were not handcuffed, and provided with food during the journey to Ashdod.\n\nIsraeli commandos abseiled from a helicopter onto the \"Defne Y\". The ship's crane had been positioned in such a way as to make it hard or impossible to abseil onto the deck, forcing troops to descend directly to the roof. Soldiers met no physical resistance as they secured the ship, but reportedly encountered verbal abuse. Passengers cooperated with the soldiers, were not handcuffed, and kept in their cabins during the trip to Ashdod. An İHH cameraman on board the \"Defne Y\" claimed to have been beaten and interrogated for five hours over a hidden videotape.\n\nThe raid resulted in the deaths of ten activists. Nine were killed during the raid: Cengiz Akyüz (42), Ali Haydar Bengi (39), İbrahim Bilgen (61), Furkan Doğan (18), Cevdet Kılıçlar (38), Cengiz Songür (47), Çetin Topçuoğlu (54), Fahri Yaldız (43), and Necdet Yıldırım (32). The tenth to die, Ugur Süleyman Söylemez, (51), died 23 May 2014, in hospital, after having been in a coma for four years. All of the dead were members of, or volunteers for the İHH.\n\nAccording to Israeli Home Front Defense Minister Matan Vilnai, all of the dead were \"involved in the fighting\". Vilnai told a Knesset hearing, \"there were no innocents among the dead\".\n\nThe bodies of activists were taken to Israel aboard a naval vessel, and held in the Abu Kabir Forensic Institute, where an external examination was carried out. The dead were flown to Turkey on 2 June. Autopsies performed in Turkey showed that eight of the nine killed had died of 9mm gunshot wounds, with one death from an unnamed atypical round. Five had gunshot wounds to the head and at least four were shot from both back and front. According to the UNHRC report, six of the people on the flotilla showed signs of \"summary execution\", including two shot after they were severely injured.\n\nThe İHH reported that the bodies had been washed before their return to Turkey. This removed gunpowder residue and made it hard to determine the shooting distance. According to the organization, the dead had been shot from up above and it was possible to determine which weapons were used. The nine were shot 30 times in total. Dr. Haluk Ince, the director of Istanbul's Medical Examination Institute, said, \"from the analysis of the bullet distance on one of the bodies, the gun was fired between 2 and 14 centimeters' distance from the victim's head.\" Doğan was shot five times from less than 45 cm, in the face, in the back of the head, twice in the leg and once in the back.\n\nA funeral service for eight of the dead was held at Fatih Mosque in Istanbul on 3 June. The dead were taken to their hometowns, where they were buried in individual funerals. The last memorial service was held at Beyazıt Mosque in Istanbul on 4 June, and the man was later buried in Istanbul.\n\nThe raid also left dozens of activists wounded. Dr. Hazem Farouq, a dentist and Egyptian MP from the Muslim Brotherhood said passengers could not find first aid and did not have material to treat wounds. After the takeover of the ship, injured activists were taken to the roof and treated by IDF medical personnel. According to an IDF doctor, no wounded activists died after they began receiving treatment. Triage was performed in accordance with objective medical criteria, with the result that some activists were treated before soldiers. Israeli Air Force helicopters airlifted thirty-one of the wounded to Israel for emergency treatment. Another 24 injured passengers were diagnosed at Ashdod port and sent to hospitals. A total of fifty-five activists were admitted to the Israeli hospitals of Hadassah, Sheba, Rambam, Rabin, and Barzilai. Nine of the activists were in severe condition, and some underwent surgery at Rambam and Sheba hospitals. Several patients were transferred from Rabin Medical Center to Israel Prison Service medical facilities. The Turkish government sent Turkish Red Crescent personnel to Israel to treat the injured. In the following days, most patients were airlifted to Turkey by Turkish Airlines after their conditions stabilized. Two seriously injured activists remained in an Israeli hospital, as their condition was judged too severe to fly them home. Both men were flown to Turkey on 4 June, still in life-threatening condition, and were taken to Atatürk Hospital. On 6 June, a wounded Indonesian cameraman was transferred from a hospital in Israel for medical treatment in Amman before being taken back to Indonesia.\n\nIn addition to activists aboard the \"Mavi Marmara\", some of the passengers on the five other ships were injured from beatings and less-lethal weaponry, and were hospitalized in Israel.\n\nAccording to testimonies of IDF personnel, several wounded activists refused treatment, stating that they would prefer to die as shaheeds. An IDF doctor testified that in a number of cases wounded activists tried to hamper treatment by removing and tearing off medical equipment. A high-ranking naval officer testified that some of the wounded were unwilling to leave the lounge where they were laying, and that the ship's doctor had told him that there were many wounded individuals who refused to be evacuated, some of them severely injured. Some activists tried to physically block troops from reaching the wounded. IDF soldiers eventually evacuated the activists against their will in order to save their lives. According to some accounts by passengers, IDF soldiers denied medical treatment to several wounded activists who died shortly thereafter.\n\nIsrael reported that seven soldiers were injured in the clash. Four soldiers were moderately wounded, of which two were initially in critical condition, and an additional three soldiers were lightly wounded. Two of the injured soldiers sustained gunshot wounds. One was shot in the knee, in addition to three fractures and a crack in the hand, a deep cut in the left ear, a stab wound to the chest, internal bleeding, and cuts. The other one was shot in the abdomen. The remaining soldiers sustained varying injuries from beatings and stabbing. One soldier was unconscious for 45 minutes due to head and neck injuries.\n\nTwo of the injured soldiers who were rescued after jumping overboard were taken to Israel by sea, while the rest were treated by IDF medical personnel aboard the \"Mavi Marmara\" and airlifted to Israel by helicopter. The Israeli commandos wounded in the raid were taken to Rambam Hospital in Haifa, where some required surgery. While in hospital, the soldiers were visited by hundreds of people, including military officials and politicians.\n\nOn 25 December 2011, it was reported that three commandos who sustained moderate and serious injuries had still not been recognized as disabled veterans and granted state benefits. The Ministry of Defense demanded that additional proof of injury be produced, though its rehabilitation wing had already made a preliminary decision to grant them disability status. The commandos filed a lawsuit against the Defense Ministry, and hired private attorneys. A source close to the proceedings told \"Ynet\" that the soldiers were supposed to have received their benefits three or four months after the proceedings began, especially with the photographs and video footage that documented the incident.\n\nThe Israeli military said that in addition to medical aid and construction materials, they found knives, clubs, slingshots, bulletproof vests, gas masks, and night vision goggles aboard the \"Mavi Marmara\". A statement released by Foreign Affairs Minister Avigdor Lieberman stated that violence against the soldiers was pre-planned, and that \"light weaponry\" was found on the ships, including pistols that had been seized from IDF commandos. Israel stated that the naval forces \"found weapons prepared in advance and used against our forces.\" IDF photos displayed daggers, kitchen and pocket knives, metal and wooden poles, flares, wrenches and slingshots with marble projectiles said to have been used against the soldiers. The activists were said to have also lobbed stun grenades at IDF soldiers, and the IDF furnished video reflecting this. An activist said that it would have been impossible to have firearms on board because \"all the boats were carefully inspected by the government before they left the port of departure.\" Turkish officials supported the activists' account, stating that every passenger that had left Turkey had been searched with X-ray machines and metal detectors before boarding. Senior officials in the Customs Undersecretariat called the Israeli statements tantamount to \"complete nonsense\".\n\nOn 4 June Walla! reported that a senior IDF officer interviewed by Kol Israel radio said that activists threw weapons and firearms into the sea, and that bullet casings that do not match IDF firearms were found on the ship. Fehmi Bülent Yıldırım said activists had rushed some of the soldiers and snatched their weapons, but had thrown them overboard without using them.\n\nThe IDF released nearly 20 videos of the incident. Both sides were described as lacking context and confusing the issue of who initiated hostilities The videos were taken from Israeli naval vessels and helicopters using night-vision technology. The videos appeared to show activists hitting soldiers with metal pipes and a chair. A video also showed a soldier being pushed off deck by activists and thrown onto a lower deck headfirst. One video shows each commando being attacked by metal pipes and bats as he was lowered by helicopter. Other videos show activists beating one of the soldiers and trying to kidnap him.\n\nThe IDF also showed confiscated footage from the ship's surveillance cameras, which purportedly showed activists preparing for a clash hours before the Israeli Navy made contact with the ship.\n\nA video shot on board by documentary maker Iara Lee showed the captain of the boat announcing over the public address system, \"Stop your resistance ... They are using live ammunition ... Be calm, be very calm.\" Gunshots are heard. At the end a woman shouts, \"We have no guns here, we are civilians taking care of injured people. Don't use violence, we need help.\" One of the activists shows the camera a waterproofed booklet allegedly taken from the Israeli commandos listing the names, with photos, of several key people among the passengers. Lee says the video was smuggled off the ship in her underwear due to the Israeli confiscation of all photographic and film material.\n\nFollowing the boardings, Israeli naval forces towed the flotilla's vessels to Ashdod, from where the activists were taken into custody by authorities, pending deportation.\n\nSome 629 activists were detained by the Israel Prison Service, after they refused to sign deportation orders. A Turkish mother who had brought her one-year-old child with her agreed to extradition after she was advised that prison conditions were \"too harsh\" for her baby. Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs Micheál Martin described the arrests as \"kidnapping\" and questioned the logic of bringing the detainees to Israel only to deport them there, instead of giving them \"unconditional release\". Israel planned to prosecute two dozen activists, charging they had assaulted its troops. Israeli authorities planned to keep them detained while the Israel Police looked into possible charges.\n480 activists were detained and 48 were deported immediately. Reacting to intensifying international criticism of the raid, Israeli officials announced that all activists held would be released, including those who Israel had earlier threatened to prosecute. Israel began releasing activists on 1 June. On 2 June 124 activists were deported to Jordan and another 200 were taken to Ben Gurion International Airport and flown out of the country. The Israeli military said there were a total of 718 passengers on flotilla; the last one was released by 6 June 2010.\n\nA group of thirteen female activists attacked Immigration Authority personnel accompanying them to the airport for deportation. The activists began to yell and curse while in the police bus taking them to the airport, cursing officers and Israel. When they arrived at the airport, two attacked an officer, trying to push, slap and scratch him while shouting \"free Palestine\" and \"Israel is a terror state\". The two were eventually restrained by several officers. According to flotilla activist Fintan Lan Ken, an Irish-American passenger was beaten by security officials at the airport before boarding and had to be hospitalized.\n\nArab Knesset Member Haneen Zoabi was released on 1 June. She attempted to address the Knesset, but was interrupted by other lawmakers, who told her to \"go to Gaza, traitor.\" She received multiple death threats by phone and mail, and was placed under armed protection after nearly 500 people signed up to a Facebook page calling for her execution. As a punitive measure for her involvement in the flotilla raid, the Knesset stripped her of five parliamentary privileges: the right to carry a diplomatic passport, the right to financial assistance for legal expenses, the right to visit countries with which Israel does not have diplomatic relations, the right to participate in Knesset discussions, and the right to vote in parliamentary committees. A Knesset committee recommended that her parliamentary immunity be revoked, but Knesset Speaker Reuven Rivlin blocked the recommendation from being voted on.\n\nFour other Israeli Arabs who participated in the flotilla were detained and later released on bail. On 3 June, the Ashkelon Magistrates' Court accepted an appeal for their release with bail, under the conditions that they remain under house arrest until 8 June, and do not leave the country for 45 days.\n\nThe Israeli nationals who were on board were investigated on suspicion of attempting to enter the Gaza Strip unlawfully. None of them were suspected of assaulting Israeli soldiers. In September 2011, Attorney-General Yehuda Weinstein ended the investigation. The Israeli Justice Ministry stated, \"after examining the overall evidence in the case and the legal issues pertaining to the matter, the attorney general has decided to close the case as a result of significant evidentiary and legal difficulties.\"\n\nSome the activists said that they were beaten during interrogations. Mattias Gardell also said there was sleep deprivation and that he was beaten several times. They also said that treatment depended on their skin colour, ethnicity and if they had a Muslim-sounding name. One activist said they were not allowed to contact lawyers and were videotaped throughout. According to Henning Mankell, Israeli authorities confiscated their money, credit cards, mobile phones, laptops, cameras, and personal belongings including clothes. They were only allowed to keep papers. Several passengers had charges made to their confiscated debit cards and cell phones. Israel pledged to investigate the issue. An IDF officer and three soldiers were subsequently arrested by Israeli military police and charged with stealing laptops and mobile phones from passengers. Turkish journalist Adem Özköse, who was aboard the \"Marmara\", said Israel's prison was like a 5-star hotel compared to Syria's jails.\n\nA BBC investigation found that the aid consignment consisted of \"thousands of tons\" of aid, including large quantities of much needed building supplies. Israel said humanitarian aid confiscated from the ships would be transferred to Gaza, but that it would not transfer banned items such as cement. At the same briefing, they said that they found construction equipment, including concrete and metal rods, that were not allowed into Gaza. The IDF said that all of the equipment on board was examined and none of it was in shortage in Gaza. According to Israeli and Palestinian sources, Hamas refused to allow the humanitarian aid into Gaza until Israeli authorities released all flotilla detainees and allowed building materials, which are thought to make up 8,000 of the 10,000 tons of the goods, to reach them. Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh said, \"We are not seeking to fill our (bellies), we are looking to break the Israeli siege on Gaza.\"\n\nIsraeli newspapers commented that the situation must not be all that bad if Palestinians refused the aid. Hamas spokesman Ismail Radwan responded: \"We will not take any blood stained aid\", and \"If we accept the delivery of aid then we are legitimizing Israel's violent actions.\" Yet allowing: \"If the Turks ask us to let the aid shipments in, we would do it.\" On 17 June 2010, Palestinian authorities accepted the delivery of the cargo under UN supervision and coordination. However, Israel stated it \"will not transfer to Gaza the weapons and military equipment it had found aboard the \"Mavi Marmara\"\".\n\nAt midday on 31 May 2010 Israeli Navy tugboats towed ships of the aid convoy to the Israeli port of Ashdod, where the ships were impounded by Israeli authorities. NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen requested \"the immediate release of the detained civilians and ships held by Israel\". Of the seven ships detained in Israel, three of the Turkish-owned ships were unconditionally returned. The Israeli Defense Ministry reported that two of the remaining four ships were claimed, but proof of ownership wasn't provided. Nobody claimed ownership of the remaining two ships, and Israel tried to locate the owners.\n\nOne incidence of an Israeli soldier who stole electronic goods from the Turkish ship Mavi Marmara was recorded.\n\nOn 31 May 2010, Prime Minister Netanyahu asked President Obama to veto any UN Security Council condemnations of Israel, but the president refused to comply. At the UN Security Council, the US subsequently blocked demands for an international inquiry into the raid and the criticism of Israel for allegedly violating international law, as proposed by Turkey, Palestine and Arab nations.\n\nThe establishment of a formal UN Panel of Inquiry was announced in August 2010. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon completed a two-month consultation with Turkey and Israel to convene the panel that was led by former Prime Minister of New Zealand Geoffrey Palmer (Chair) and the outgoing President of Colombia, Alvaro Uribe (Vice-Chair). The launch of the panel was then followed by Ban Ki-moon's announcement of the Turkish and Israeli representatives who had been appointed by the respective leaders of the two countries: Joseph Ciechanover was appointed by Netanyahu to be the Israeli representative was and Turkey's panel member was Özdem Sanberk. In regard to Ciechanover and Sanberk, the Secretary-General publicly stated, \"Both men have distinguished records of public service.\"\n\nIn July 2011, the UN investigative committee said that the Israeli naval blockade of Gaza was legal, but that Israel used excessive force and should have waited to enforce the blockade closer to the shoreline. It also concluded that Turkey should have taken action to try to prevent the flotilla from taking place. In September 2011, the UN stated that Israel used excessive force and boarded the flotilla when it was far away from the blockade zone.\n\nOn 2 June, Israel released over 600 of the detained activists. On 4 June, the Israeli Supreme Court upheld a decision of attorney-general Yehuda Weinstein to halt the police investigation of the incident. On 5 June, the Israeli government's press division apologized for circulating a link to the satiric \"We Con the World\" video that mocked activists on board, satirizing their purportedly peaceful intentions. On 13 June, Defense Minister Ehud Barak canceled a trip to France amid threats of charges against Barak and other Israeli officials under the principle of universal jurisdiction. On 16 June, Israel added İHH to its terror watch list.\n\nPalestinian Authority president, and Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO) since 11 November 2004, Mahmoud Abbas said, \"Israel has committed a massacre,\" and declared a three-day state of mourning. Palestinian government official Mustafa Barghouti stated that Israel's actions would lead to the international boycott growing in strength. Salam Fayyad said \"Israel went beyond all that could be expected. / This [attack] is a transgression against all international covenants and norms and it must be confronted by all international forums.\"\n\nIn July 2010, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that Hamas officials cited the raid on a flotilla as evidence that there is \"more to gain\" from the international condemnation produced by Israel's use of force than by attacking Israel. Aziz Dweik, \"a leading Hamas lawmaker in the West Bank\", said \"When we use violence, we help Israel win international support. The Gaza flotilla has done more for Gaza than 10,000 rockets.\"\n\nEgypt opened its Rafah Border Crossing with the Gaza Strip to allow humanitarian and medical aid to enter following international criticism of the raid and a call for the border to be opened by Hamas's leader Khaled Meshaal. It is not clear how long it will remain open. According to an Egyptian security source, construction materials such as concrete and steel are still required to be transported via Israel's border crossings.\n\nOn 4 June 2010, a Turkish state-run news agency reported a possible trial against Israel in which a Turkish autopsy report would be used as evidence. On 29 June the İHH said that the attack on the flotilla was planned. Lawyers representing the IHH wrote to Luis Moreno Ocampo, prosecutor at the International Criminal Court (ICC) asking to prosecute the Israelis involved. Although Israel is not a member of the ICC, the lawyer said the \"Mavi Marmara\" was sailing under flag of the Comoros and many Turks were on board, and both these countries were signatories.\n\nPrior to a Gaza visit, scheduled for April 2013, Turkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan explained to Turkish newspaper \"Hürriyet\" that the fulfilment of three conditions by Israel was necessary for friendly relations to resume between Turkey and Israel: an apology for the raid (Prime Minister Netanyahu had delivered an apology to Erdogan by telephone on 22 March 2013), the awarding of compensation to the families affected by the raid, and the lifting of the Gaza blockade by Israel. The Turkish prime minister also explained in the \"Hürriyet\" interview, in relation to the April 2013 Gaza visit, \"We will monitor the situation to see if the promises are kept or not.\" At the same time, Netanyahu affirmed that Israel would only consider exploring the removal of the Gaza blockade if peace (\"quiet\") is achieved in the area.\n\nOn 26 May 2014, the criminal court in Turkey issued arrest warrants for the four Israeli military officers who oversaw the attack, turning over the warrants to Interpol. In December 2016, Turkish courts finally dismissed the cases brought before them, under extraordinary security measures due to the \"angry and disappointed Islamists\" involved.\n\nIn Israel, the Israel Police and Israel Prison Service were placed on high alert throughout the country, residents of communities close to the border with the Gaza Strip were ordered to prepare their bomb shelters, and a number of checkpoints were set up along the Israel–Gaza Strip border. The IDF placed units along the northern and southern borders on alert, and called up reservists. Roads towards the Temple Mount in Jerusalem and other controversial areas were blocked by police.\n\nIsraeli groups have suggested 'reverse flotillas' to sail to Turkey, which would bring attention to Turkey's history of oppression in Kurdistan and their attempts to suppress recognition of the Armenian Genocide.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council condemned \"those acts which resulted in the loss of lives\" and called for a prompt investigation conforming to international standards. The UN Human Rights Council called the attack outrageous and dispatched a fact-finding mission to investigate violations of international law. Unofficial responses included civilian demonstrations in Kuala Lumpur, Beirut, Tripoli, Sidon, Istanbul, Athens and Stockholm. British Prime Minister David Cameron described the Israeli offensive as \"completely unacceptable\".\n\nSeveral entertainers canceled appearances in Israel.\nIran's Red Crescent organised an aid shipment that was called off after being informed that Egypt would prevent it from passing through the Suez Canal. B. Lynn Pascoe, United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs, cautioned \"such convoys were not helpful in resolving Gaza's basic economic problems and needlessly carried the potential for escalation\".<ref name=\"SC/9990\"></ref> \"Our stated preference has been and remains that aid should be delivered by established routes\", the United Nations spokesman said, prior to new Lebanese ships sailing to Gaza on 23 July 2010, \"There are established routes for supplies to enter by land. That is the way aid should be delivered to the people of Gaza.\" Israel's United Nations Ambassador Gabriela Shalev said in letter to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon about new Gaza-bound ships: \"Israel reserves its right under international law to use all necessary means to prevent these ships from violating the ... naval blockade\".\n\nThe Gaddafi International Charity and Development Foundation, a Libyan charity organization headed by Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, chartered the MV \"Amalthea\" to deliver humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip. The ship carried food, medical supplies and pre-fabricated houses and docked at the port of El Arish, Egypt on 14 July, from where the supplies were reportedly to be taken to Gaza by road. The humanitarian aid and supplies were donated by Greek companies and charities.\n\nIsrael–Turkey relations reached a low point after the incident. Turkey recalled its ambassador, cancelled joint military exercises, and called for an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan harshly referred to the raid as a \"bloody massacre\" and \"state terrorism\", and harshly criticized Israel in a speech before the Grand National Assembly. The Turkish Grand National Assembly held a debate on whether to impose sanctions on Israel, and eventually came out with a statement criticizing the attack as illegal, demanding that Israel apologize, pay compensation, and prosecute those involved, and calling on the Turkish government to review ties with Israel and take \"effective measures\". The flotilla raid was among the issues discussed during a security meeting of Turkish military commanders chaired by Prime Minister Erdoğan.\n\nThroughout the following months, Israel–Turkey relations remained tense. Turkey demanded that Israel apologize, pay compensation to the deceased's families, and lift the Gaza blockade, and stated that it would be impossible to renew normal ties with Israel otherwise. The United States also pressed Israel to apologize. Israel rebuffed demands by both Turkey and the US.\n\nShortly before the release of the UN Palmer report, Turkey gave Israel an ultimatum to either issue an apology for the raid, or face \"Plan B\", without elaborating what action in intended to take. After Israel refused to apologize, Turkey expelled Israel's ambassador and all diplomatic personnel above second-secretary level, and reduced its own diplomatic representation in Israel to second-secretary level. Prime Minister Erdoğan also announced that Turkish warships would escort future aid flotillas to Gaza, and that Turkey would stop Israel from \"unilaterally exploiting\" natural gas resources in the Eastern Mediterranean.\n\nIn late 2011, a series of military confrontations were reported between Turkey and Israel. Turkey boosted its air and naval operations in the Mediterranean, and a Turkish warship sailed the approximate route that the flotilla took. Though it did not enter Israeli territorial waters, it sailed in ranges where warships typically update friendly nations of their presence to prevent misunderstandings. Israel then began closely monitoring Turkish naval activity. A Turkish media report said that two Israeli fighter jets and a helicopter circled over a Turkish exploration ship searching for gas reservoirs off the coast of Cyprus, breaching Cypriot airspace, ignoring warnings from Turkish air controllers in Northern Cyprus, and approaching the Turkish coastline in the process, and that they were only driven off when two Turkish fighter jets were scrambled to incercept them. The IDF denied the report. A Turkish Foreign Ministry official also told Arab ambassadors that on several occasions, Turkish fighter jets were scrambled and chased away Israeli fighter jets flying near the Syrian shore.\n\nTurkey changed its IFF (Identification Friend or Foe) radar system into re-categorizing Israeli aircraft as hostile targets, which would allow Turkish planes to engage Israeli targets, as opposed to the old system, which identified Israeli planes as friendlies and would have prevented any Turkish plane from firing at them. Turkey said that its naval submarine radar system would be changed next. A Turkish newspaper also reported that three Turkish warships ready to deploy to the Mediterranean were instructed that if they encountered any Israeli warship outside Israel's territorial waters, they would come within 100 meters and neutralize the Israeli ship's weapons system.\n\nIn 2012, \"Today's Zaman\" reported that Israeli intelligence had wiretapped the radio conversations of Turkish Air Force cadets training to fly fighter jets at the Konya 3rd Main Jet Command Base to gather intelligence on Turkish training programs and flight strategies. According to the report, Turkish intelligence discovered this, and the Turkish Air Force initiated a project to encrypt communications between fighter jets.\n\nFollowing a telephone apology from Netanyahu to Erdoğan on 22 March 2013, discussions commenced between Turkey and Israel in regard to compensation and diplomatic relations between the two countries. As of 27 March 2013, a media report anticipated a meeting that would be led by Turkish Foreign Ministry Undersecretary Feridun Sinirlioglu and Israel's Ciechanover) to discuss the specific matter of Turkey–Israel ties.\n\nFollowing the raid, Israel faced mounting international calls to ease or lift its blockade. On 17 June, Israeli Prime Minister's Office announced a decision to relax the blockade. This announcement received a cool response from the international community.\n\nThree days later, Israel's Security Cabinet approved a new system governing the blockade that would allow practically all non-military or dual-use items to enter the Gaza strip. Israel stated it would expand the transfer of construction materials designated for projects that have been approved by the Palestinian Authority as well as projects that are under international supervision. Despite the easing of the land blockade, Israel announced that it would continue to inspect at the port of Ashdod all goods bound for Gaza by sea. Internationally, this decision received mixed reactions.\n\nIn November 2010, Catherine Ashton, the European Union's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy stated that inadequate amounts of goods were entering Gaza to meet Gaza's humanitarian and reconstruction needs. Ashton also called for Israel to permit entry of construction material that UNRWA requested to rebuild schools and to Israel to allow exports from Gaza.\n\nTurkey's foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, reiterated his demands for a United Nations investigation. He said: \"We have no trust at all that Israel, a country that has carried out such an attack on a civilian convoy in international waters, will conduct an impartial investigation. To have a defendant acting simultaneously as both prosecutor and judge is not compatible with any principle of law.\"\n\nUN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said on 5 June that the IDF raid of the \"Mavi Marmara\" should be investigated by a New Zealand-led committee, with Israeli and Turkish deputies. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hoped the Israeli-led process would put an end to efforts in the United Nations to set up an international inquiry, which many Israelis fear would be biased. In Israel and around the world, some said the committee lacked sufficient credibility and investigative powers. White House backed Israeli internal inquiry into Gaza flotilla deaths and said that the Israeli inquiry meets the standard of \"prompt, impartial, credible and transparent investigation\". U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague, speaking in Luxembourg, stressed the need for \"a truly independent inquiry and a thorough investigation that the international community can respect\". Israeli Intelligence and Atomic Energy Minister Dan Meridor told Turkish media that there \"will be international elements in the commission which is going to be formed\".\n\nThe Israeli government said it would accept a limited role by non-Israelis in the investigation of the raid, but rejected an independent international inquiry, and said the country is able to conduct a credible review on its own. Analysts suggested that after the controversial UN-sponsored Goldstone Report, Israel lacks faith that the United Nations can do a credible job of investigating events related to Israel. An internal Israeli police investigation was halted by Israeli Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein. A group of Israeli Navy reserve officers issued a letter backing the call for an independent investigation.\n\nFollowing the raid, Israel's government set up the Turkel Commission, a commission of inquiry headed by Israeli Supreme Court Justice Jacob Turkel, to investigate the raid. It was chaired by Justice Turkel, and had four members: Shabtai Rosenne, Professor of International Law at Bar-Ilan University, Amos Horev, a retired Israeli Major-General and President of the Technion Institute of Technology, Miguel Deutch, Professor of Law at Tel Aviv University, and Reuven Merhav, former Director-General of the Foreign Ministry. Rosenne died at age 93 during the Commission's work, and was not replaced. The commission had two non-voting foreign observers: Former First Minister of Northern Ireland and Nobel Peace Prize laureate David Trimble, and former Judge Advocate General of the Canadian Forces Ken Watkin, both of whom were friendly to Israel according to the BBC and Der Spiegel. The Committee also contracted the services of two foreign international law experts: Professors Wolff Heintschel von Heinegg and Michael Schmitt.\n\nThe inquiry was charged with investigating the legality of the Gaza blockade, the legality of the Israeli Navy's actions during the raid, and determining whether investigations of claims of war crimes and breaches of international law conformed to Western standards. The Committee was also charged with investigating the Turkish position, and the actions taken by flotilla participants, especially the IHH, and examining the identities and intentions of the flotilla's participants.\n\nDuring the investigation, the Committee heard the testimonies of two flotilla passengers and two Israeli human rights activists. The Committee requested the assistance of the Turkish Embassy in Israel in finding the Captain of the \"Mavi Marmara\" so he could be invited to testify. The request was denied, with the response being that the Committee could look at the testimony of the Captain contained in the Turkish report. The Committee also issued an open invitation to all passengers and crew to testify, and requested assistance from the Turkish Embassy in Israel in building a list of prospective witnesses, but received no immediate reply. The Committee also heard the testimonies of three politicians including the Prime Minister, three IDF officials (one testified twice), two government bureaucrats, and a Prison official.\n\nThe 300-page Turkel Committee report found the actions of the Israeli Navy in the raid and Israel's naval blockade of Gaza were both legal under international law, and accused a group of \"IHH activists\" of having armed themselves and conducting hostilities \"in an organized manner\".\n\nTurkey and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas dismissed the Israeli investigation, and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon repeated the demand for an independent investigation, stating that the Israeli investigation will not have international credibility.\n\nAccording to \"Haaretz\" journalist Barak Ravid, UN Report of the Secretary-General's Panel of Inquiry on 31 May 2010, found that Israel's Turkel commission that investigated the events was professional, independent and unbiased. It also criticized the Turkish government's behavior in its dealings with the committee, concluding that the Turkish investigation was politically influenced and its work was not professional or independent.\n\nTurkey also established an inquiry into the events, which found, in contrast to the Israeli inquiry, the blockade and the Israeli raid to have been illegal. After the Turkish inquiry, Turkey described the raid as a violation of international law, \"tantamount to banditry and piracy\", and described the killings of activists as \"state-sponsored terrorism\". Concerning the Israeli inquiry, Turkey said its own commission was \"surprised, appalled and dismayed that the national inquiry process in Israel has resulted in the exoneration of the Israeli armed forces\".\n\nOn 23 July 2010 the United Nations Human Rights Council launched an independent fact-finding mission to investigate violations of international law that may have occurred during the flotilla raid. Israel refused to allow the panel to interview Israeli witnesses and accused the UNHRC of a history of anti-Israel bias.\n\nIn its first report, submitted in September 2010, the UN fact-finding mission found that the IDF broke international law, and that there was evidence sufficient to initiate prosecutions for breaches of the Geneva Convention. The report stated that: \"The conduct of the Israeli military and other personnel towards the flotilla passengers was not only disproportionate to the occasion but demonstrated levels of totally unnecessary and incredible violence,\" and determined that Israeli commandos summarily executed six passengers aboard the MV \"Mavi Marmara\". It cites forensic analysis indicating that Furgan Dogan was shot five times, including once in the face while he was lying on his back. \"All of the entry wounds were on the back of his body except for the face wound, which entered the right of his nose\", the report concluded. \"According to forensic analysis, tattooing around the wound in his face indicates that the shot was delivered at point-blank range.\"\n\nThe report stated: \"There is clear evidence to support prosecutions of the following crimes within the terms of of the Fourth Geneva Convention: wilful killing; torture or inhuman treatment; wilfully causing great suffering or serious injury to body or health\". The report also stated that it found no medical evidence of IDF commandos being shot. It recommended that Israel pay reparations, and also described Israel's blockade of the Gaza Strip as \"totally intolerable and unacceptable in the 21st century\".\n\nThe United States expressed concern about the tone, content and conclusions of the report, while the European Union said that it should be transferred to the UN Secretary-General's investigation. On 29 September 2010 the UN Human Rights Council voted to endorse the report, with 30 of the 47 countries voting in favor, the United States voting against, and 15 countries, including EU members, abstaining.\n\nOn 2 August 2010, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon announced that the U.N. would conduct an investigation of the incident. Geoffrey Palmer, former Prime Minister of New Zealand, presided over the committee. The four-member panel also included Álvaro Uribe, outgoing Colombian president, as vice chair, and one representative each from Israel and Turkey. The panel started its work on 10 August 2010. The terms of reference for the 'method of work' of the inquiry were given by Ban Ki Moon they are outlined in the report as follows: \"The Panel is not a court. It was not asked to make determinations of the legal issues or to adjudicate on liability ... The Panel was required to obtain its information from the two nations primarily involved in its inquiry, Turkey and Israel, and other affected States ... the limitation is important. It means that the Panel cannot make definitive findings either of fact or law. The information for the Panel's work came primarily through its interactions with the Points of Contact designated by Israel and Turkey.\" In a statement, Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said the country had nothing to hide and that it was in its interest that the truth of the events come to light throughout the world.\n\nThe report was published on 2 September 2011 after being delayed, reportedly to allow Israel and Turkey to continue reconciliation talks. The commission determined Israel's naval blockade of the Gaza Strip to be legal, but stated that the \"decision to board the vessels with such substantial force at a great distance from the blockade zone and with no final warning immediately prior to the boarding was excessive and unreasonable\". The commission questioned the motivations of the Flotilla, stating, \"There exist serious questions about the conduct, true nature and objectives of the flotilla organizers, particularly IHH.\" The commission recognized that the IDF were met with \"organized and violent resistance from a group of passengers\" upon boarding the vessel and therefore force was necessary for purposes of self-defense, but said, \"the loss of life and injuries resulting from the use of force by Israeli forces during the take-over of the \"Mavi Marmara\" was unacceptable.\"\n\nOf those killed, the report noted, \"no evidence has been provided to establish that any of the deceased were armed with lethal weapons\". It further noted, \"at least one of those killed, Furkan Dogan, was shot at extremely close range. Mr. Dogan sustained wounds to the face, back of the skull, back and left leg. That suggests he may already have been lying wounded when the fatal shot was delivered, as suggested by witness accounts to that effect.\" The lack of satisfactory explanation was pointed out:\nForensic evidence showing that most of the deceased were shot multiple times, including in the back, or at close range has not been adequately accounted for in the material presented by Israel.\n\nIn regards to the Gaza blockade, the commission writes:\nIsrael faces a real threat to its security from militant groups in Gaza ... The naval blockade was imposed as a legitimate security measure in order to prevent weapons from entering Gaza by sea and its implementation complied with the requirements of international law.\n\nThe report was also critical of the flotilla, describing it as \"reckless\". Turkey was criticized as well for not doing more to persuade flotilla participants to avoid armed conflict with Israeli soldiers. Finally, the report presented the following as rapprochement, i.e., for the re-establishment of cordial relations between Turkey and Israel:\nAn appropriate statement of regret should be made by Israel in respect of the incident in light of its consequences. Israel should offer payment for the benefit of the deceased and injured and their families ... Turkey and Israel should resume full diplomatic relations ...\n\nIsrael's ambassador to the U.S., Michael Oren, said \"We think it was a fair and balanced report\", and that Israel would not apologize to Turkey. The Israeli Prime Minister's Office stated that Israel has adopted the report, except for its conclusions regarding the use of force in the flotilla raid. Turkey criticized the report for accepting Israel's naval blockade as legal, and Turkey's president Abdullah Gul said his country considered the report \"null and void\". Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmed Davutoglu said the UN hadn't endorsed the Palmer report and that Turkey was going to challenge the legality of the blockade in the International Court of Justice.\n\nIn 2013, Fatou Bensouda, the Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, opened a preliminary examination into the incident after the government of Comoros, under whose flag the Mavi Marmara was sailing, filed a complaint over the incident. In November 2014, Bensouda decided not to pursue the case, declaring that while it was possible that war crimes were committed, the possible crimes were not grave enough to fall within the scope of the court. \n\nThe government of Comoros appealed the decision, and in June 2015, three judges of a Pre-Trial Chamber of the ICC ruled that the prosecutor made material errors in her assessment of the incident's gravity and requested that the investigation be reopened in a 2-1 majority. Bensouda appealed the decision in July 2015, citing the opinion of the dissenting judge and errors made by the majority, claiming that the Pre-Trial Chamber had exceeded it's mandate by applying a strict and mistaken standard to review the decision, and that the interpretation of the legal standard required of her was faulty. Five judges of the ICC Appeals Chamber dismissed her appeal and ordered her to reexamine the case in a 3-2 majority ruling. \n\nBensouda subsequently reopened a probe into the incident, and her office received over 5,000 pages of additional evidence, including testimonies from more than 300 \"Mavi Marmara\" passengers and Turkish autopsy reports, as well as arguments in defense of the action from Israeli Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit and his Senior Adviser Gil Limon. In November 2017, after examining the case for two years, Bensouda reaffirmed her previous conclusion and announced that there was no basis for prosecution due to the fact that any possible crimes committed were not on a large scale or as part of a plan or policy, and thus fell outside of the court's mandate, criticizing the judges' analysis on how to examine the gravity of the Israeli soldiers' conduct, and for disregarding the fact that the soldiers had encountered violent resistance. Bensouda also noted that many of the witnesses who provided testimony had apparently received help in wording their testimonies, and rejected some other testimonies on the basis of the witness' involvement in violent activities, and others on the basis that testimony was provided on things the witness could not possibly have seen.\n\nTurkey's Istanbul Bakırköy prosecutor's office, assisted by the Ankara prosecutor's office, opened a criminal investigation. Possible charges, against Benjamin Netanyahu, Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Chief of Staff Gabi Ashkenazi, would include murder, injury, attacking Turkish citizens, and piracy.\n\nIn May 2011, Istanbul state prosecutor Mehmet Akif Ekinci wrote to the Israeli Justice Ministry, demanding that it disclose the names and addresses of the soldiers who took part in the raid. The demand was reportedly based on the testimonies of over 500 activists aboard the \"Mavi Marmara\". There was no response to the request.\n\nIn September 2011, IHH-affiliated lawyer Ramzan Turk claimed the organization had given Istanbul's chief prosecutor the names of ten Israeli soldiers involved in the raid. Turk claimed that the names were given to the IHH by IDF soldiers who did not take part in the raid and \"regretted the incident\". The prosecutor reportedly also approached Turkish intelligence, seeking a list of Israelis involved in the operation.\n\nOn 26 September, the MIT, Turkey's national intelligence agency, submitted to the state prosecution a list of 174 Israelis it claimed were involved in the raid. Benjamin Netanyahu topped the list as the \"primary responsible party\". The list also included all of Israel's cabinet ministers, a variety of high and low-ranking officers, and the photographs of ten soldiers who could not be identified by name. \"Today's Zaman\" reported that the MIT had operated agents inside Israel to confirm the soldiers' identities, a claim denied by the Turkish government. According to a report in \"Sabah\", photographs and information from various media sources helped in the identification of the soldiers, and Turkish intelligence agents apparently tracked down the soldiers on Facebook and Twitter. However, a \"Ynet\" report later revealed that the soldiers listed as having taken part in the raid had already completed their military service by the time of the raid, and that the names included those of a Golani Brigade maintenance officer, a Paratroopers Brigade company commander, and an Artillery Corps battery commander. The IDF Spokesperson's Office stated that the names were \"recycled\" from previous lists that were published on anti-Israel websites during the Gaza War. Military officials claimed that the list was created for psychological warfare purposes.\n\nOn 9 May 2012, the Turkish Justice Ministry announced that the State Prosecutor's Office had completed its probe into the raid. Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin said that the Israeli Foreign Ministry had been approached with a request for the names of IDF soldiers who took part, and said that the soldiers would be indicted in Turkish courts when Israel complied. Israel did not grant the request. On 23 May, Istanbul state prosecutor Mehmet Akif Ekinci prepared indictments carrying life sentences for four Israeli commanders involved in the raid: Chief of Staff Gabi Ashkenazi, Navy commander Eli Marom, Air Force intelligence chief Avishai Levy, and military intelligence chief Amos Yadlin, charging each of them with first-degree murder, assault, and torture. The indictment called for ten life sentences to be imposed on each of them: nine for every activist killed, and one for a wounded activist still in a coma. On 28 May, they were indicted by an Istanbul court after a panel of judges voted unanimously. In the 144-page indictment, they were accused of inciting murder and injury.\n\nIn June 2012, Israeli State Comptroller Micha Lindenstrauss released a report on the decision-making process leading to the flotilla raid. It found major fault with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's decision-making process over the events, stating that he failed to organize an orderly and coordinated discussion with other Israeli leaders, instead consulting Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman in undocumented meetings. Netanyahu was also criticized for his failure to call a cabinet meeting to discuss the matter, despite the requests of Defense Minister Ehud Barak, IDF Chief of Staff Gabi Ashkenazi, and Strategic Affairs Minister Moshe Yaalon. He instead consulted the forum of seven, a group of seven cabinet ministers with no constitutional basis, once before leaving to visit North America. The meeting took place five days before the raid, and relevant officials, including the Justice and Internal Security Ministers, were not invited, and the discussion was not in line with national security-related decision-making protocols. The report also found fault with Netanyahu failing to hold a discussion with the defense and foreign ministers to start a dialogue that could result in a diplomatic and political effort to prevent the flotilla from leaving or prevent it from getting as far as it did.\n\nThe report found fault with Netanyahu's failure to allow the National Security Council to deal with the matter. The NSC held its first meeting on 12 May, and its requests to be involved in discussions on the strategy used to deal with the raid were denied. The report claimed that this conduct was illegal and damaging to the NSC's ability to aid leaders in making decisions.\n\nOverall, Lindenstrauss found that the strategy for dealing with the flotilla was hastily put together and did not follow the recommendations of the Winograd and Lipkin-Shahak Commissions, which had examined the government's decision-making process following the 2006 Lebanon War.\n\nThe Foreign Press Association, which represents hundreds of journalists in Israel and the Palestinian territories, complained that Israel is validating its own account by selectively using the seized video and equipment from reporters on board. FPA also criticized Israel's use of captured material without permission. Journalist Paul McGeough told his consul-general \"we were robbed of any electronic equipment that we had\" and \"Fairfax will fight this ... I could be back in Israel within two weeks to contest this.\" Israeli public radio reported that authorities had banned the media from providing any information about the dead and wounded, and who was taken to hospital in Israel. The censorship order was later lifted.\n\nA spokesman for the U.S. State Department said, \"We will look into the circumstances of the death of an American citizen, as we would do anywhere in the world at all times\", noting that the FBI could get involved, \"working with the host government\", \"if we think a crime has been committed\".\n\nIn addition to governmental investigation, relatives of the Turkish citizens killed in the raid had conducted an unceasing campaign to find Israeli officials guilty of these fatalities. Even following the Israeli official apology and Turkish agreement to refrain from legal action against Israeli officials, the families of IHH activists kept pursuing their case and even managed to get the support of the government of the Comoros in referring the case to the ICC.\n\nIn 2015, an arrest warrant was issued in Spain for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, former Defense Minister Ehud Barak, former IDF Chief of Staff Moshe Ya'alon, former Interior Minister Eli Yishai, Minister without Portfolio Benny Begin and Vice Admiral Eli Marom. The warrant was issued by federal judge José de la Mata of the National Court. The police and Civil Guard were ordered to inform the court if any of the indicted entered Spain. In accordance to a Spanish Supreme Court decision, legal procedures shall only be initiated when one of the seven indicted set foot in Spanish soil. Judge de la Mata noted that all signatory states to the Fourth Geneva Convention have a duty to seek any accused of serious infractions to the Convention, “as in the present case”.\n\nForeign Ministry spokesperson Emmanuel Nachshon said the judge’s order is considered \"a provocation\", and that Israel is working with the Spanish authorities to get it canceled, hoping \"it will be over soon.\"\n\nIn December 2016, Turkish courts finally dismissed the cases brought before them, under extraordinary security measures due to the \"angry and disappointed Islamists\" involved.\n\nInternational law experts differed over the legality of the Israeli action in published assessments following the raid. Legal commentators generally agreed that Israel was required to respond with a proportional use of force in the face of violent resistance, but the degree of proportionality was disputed.\n\nA fact-finding mission of the UNHRC claimed that Israel had broken international law. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay condemned the Israeli raid, saying it involved disproportionate use of force and that the Gaza blockade was illegal. Richard Falk, professor emeritus of international law at Princeton University said that the \"ships that were situated in the high seas where freedom of navigation exists, according to the law of the seas\". Anthony D'Amato, a professor of international law at Northwestern University School of Law, said the raid was illegal and that a legitimate blockade would have required a state of war between Israel and Hamas, which he said was not the case.\n\nIn September 2011, a United Nations report concluded that the Israeli naval blockade was legal, but that the Israeli action was \"excessive\". The finding declaring the naval blockade legal was rejected by a UNHRC panel of five independent human rights experts, stating that it amounted to collective punishment and was unlawful.\n\nHarvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz, Chicago Law School Professor Eric Posner, and Johns Hopkins international law Professor Ruth Wedgwood, said that the naval blockade and the boarding in international waters were in accord with long-standing international law, and comparable to other blockades in unrelated, historical conflicts. Dershowitz and Posner also defended the specific use of force as legal.\n\nIn November 2014, Fatou Bensouda, Prosecutor for the International Criminal Court (ICC), stated that there \"is a reasonable basis to believe that war crimes under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court were committed on one of the vessels, the Mavi Marmara, when Israeli Defence Forces intercepted the 'Gaza Freedom Flotilla' on 31 May 2010\". However, she declined to further pursue the case as it \"would not be of sufficient gravity to justify further action by the ICC.\"\nRepresentatives of the Comoros, on whose behalf the case was referred to the ICC, appealed the prosecutor's decision, and in July 2015 a pre-trial chamber ruled that Bensouda had made errors in her decision to dismiss the case. \nBensouda appealed, but in November 2015 the appeals chamber of the International Criminal Court upheld the decision of the pre-trial chamber. Bensouda then launched another preliminary investigation, reviewing more than 5,000 pages of documents and more than 300 statements from passengers. In November 2017, she reaffirmed her previous decision not to investigate, concluding that while war crimes may have been committed on the Mavi Marmara ship and her conclusion does not excuse any crimes which may have been perpetrated, the incident wasn't serious enough to merit ICC involvement.\n\nFollowing upon the event and the various video clips presented by both Turkey and Israel, Iranian filmmaker Saeed Faraji created \"Freedom Flotilla\", a 56-minute documentary film about the event as his first feature length film project. The film aired in three parts on 7, 8 and 9 November 2010, on Iran Television Channel 1 and Channel 4.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35305313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35305313", "title": "Habitat Conservation Plan", "text": "Habitat Conservation Plan\n\nA Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) is a required part of an application for an Incidental Take Permit, a permit issued under the United States Endangered Species Act (ESA) to private entities undertaking projects that might result in the destruction of an endangered or threatened species. It is a planning document that ensures that the anticipated take of a listed species will be minimized or mitigated by conserving the habitat upon which the species depend, thereby contributing to the recovery of the species as a whole.\n\nThe importance of preserving rare species was legally recognized in 1973 when the Endangered Species Act (ESA) was signed into federal law. The purpose of the ESA is not only to protect species that have been listed as threatened or endangered, but also to conserve the ecosystems upon which those species depend. In aiming to protect species in danger of becoming extinct, the ESA prohibits actions that have the potential to result in a \"taking\" of any listed species. The term \"take\" under the ESA refers to any attempt or action involving the harassment, harm, pursuit, hunting, shooting, wounding, killing, trapping, capturing, or collecting of any listed species. Under this definition, the alteration of habitat that results in injury to, or death of, any listed species by preventing essential behavior (such as breeding, feeding or sheltering) is considered unlawful \"harm\". The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) are the lead agencies tasked with the implementation of the ESA and are therefore responsible for regulating prohibited and allowable activities. While the primary objective of the ESA is the protection of endangered species, and the take of such species is considered unlawful, the ESA is not absolute. In 1982, amendments were made to the 1973 ESA which authorize the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce to allow the take of federally listed species (Endangered Species Act, Section 10a(1)(B)). When non-federal activities that would otherwise be legal have the potential to result in the take of a listed species for example, they may be allowed under an Incidental Take Permit, obtained through the USFWS. To mitigate the take of listed species, Section 10 of the ESA requires that parties wishing to obtain an Incidental Take Permit must submit a conservation plan, hereafter referred to as a \"Habitat Conservation Plan\" or \"HCP,\" with their application.\n\nIn determining the party to prepare a HCP and application for an Incidental Take Permit, two primary factors must be considered; first, the party must be capable of overseeing the implementation of the HCP once approved and second, the party must be capable of funding the implementation of the HCP. Beyond these requirements, parties can vary based on the scope of the proposed action. For example, a single landowner may be the sole preparer of a HCP if they intend to obtain an Incidental Take Permit for an action on their own property and they are the only interested party. For large-scale projects such as those covering a region of land rather than a single property, or those with multiple interested parties rather than a single landowner, the permittee may be a group such as a local or governmental agency.\n\nFor large-scale projects, applicants have the option of forming a steering committee composed of persons, such as stakeholders, with an interest in the HCP planning area or affected species. The purpose of a steering committee is to provide the applicant with direction, guidance, advice, and assistance in developing the HCP. Although the development and participation of a steering committee is not a requirement in preparing a HCP, it can be found valuable in facilitating the HCP process when multiple groups with differing interests and opinions regarding the project are involved.\n\nAfter the applicant and steering committee members have been determined, consultation with USFWS and NMFS is recommended to ensure that responsible parties have a thorough understanding of requirements and resources available for the development phase of the HCP.\n\nOnce the applicant has decided to initiate the development of a HCP, they must identify the species of concern that the HCP will be developed for. All federally listed animal species that have the potential to be impacted by the proposed action/project must be included in this list. Additional unlisted species may also be considered in the HCP. Including these additional species may be beneficial in some cases, if the proposed action has the potential to impact species that are not federally listed at the time the HCP is being developed but are anticipated to be listed within the active duration of the permit; in which case, the HCP would need to be revised to include the newly listed species and may further delay the proposed action.\n\nHabitat-based approach\n\nAn alternative method to developing a HCP for target species of concern is to develop a HCP for a particular habitat type. Under this approach, a specific habitat type found within the HCP area is selected as the focus of the HCP by the permittee and USFWS/NMFS based on the species known to use the habitat. The habitat-based HCP must consider all sensitive species known to use the particular habitat type and all of their habitat-related needs. All species considered within the habitat-based HCP may be included under the Incidental Take Permit. The benefit of developing a habitat-based HCP rather than a species-based HCP is that, if prepared properly, a single HCP would theoretically benefit multiple species or an entire ecosystem rather than only protecting the species listed under the ESA.\n\nOnce the target species or habitat type to be considered in the HCP have been identified, the geographic boundaries of the planning area need to be established. It is important to be precise when defining the land area to which the HCP will apply, with regards to impacts associated with the proposed action, to circumvent potential problems in later phases of the development process. The geographic boundaries of the HCP should encompass all areas that will be directly impacted by the proposed action and any areas where an incidental take has the potential to occur as a result of the proposed action.\n\nAfter delineating the boundaries of the HCP area and the species within that area to be included in the HCP, current biological information for each of those species must be obtained. Data pertaining to the species' ecology, geographical distribution, and occurrence is required and may be available from existing sources. Guidance for locating this information is provided by USFWS and NMFS. If existing information is not available or sufficient for the requirements of the HCP, biological studies must be completed to supplement this requirement. If a biological study is determined necessary, USFWS and NMFS can suggest appropriate methods based on the species of concern.\n\nAfter sufficient biological information has been collected for each of the species included in the HCP, the applicant must provide a discussion of all proposed activities that have a potential to result in an incidental take of said species. This portion of the HCP is where the applicant provides a detailed comprehensive description of the proposed action/project, which can vary in depth based on the scale of the project and HCP area. For the purpose of long-term planning, applicants are encouraged to include any actions that they have control over that are reasonably foreseeable to occur during the active permit period.\n\nLow-Effect HCP\n\nDue to the varying degrees by which a species may be impacted from a project, the Low-Effect HCP category is established to distinguish projects that are expected to have \"minor or negligible effects on federally listed, proposed, or candidate species and their habitats or environmental values or resources\". Low-Effect HCPs have a simplified and shortened application/approval process compared to a regular HCP. USFWS and NMFS will review the HCP and determine if it may be considered within the low-effect category or not.\n\nIn requesting a permit that will authorize the incidental take of a listed species, the applicant must determine the extent of the potential take. To do this, the methods for calculating incidental take must be established. First, the number of individuals of each species, or number of acres of specific habitat, of concern that occur within the geographic boundaries of the HCP area must be determined. Subsequently, incidental take may be calculated based on the number of animals expected to be \"killed, harmed, or harassed\" as a result of the proposed action/project. If the applicant is incapable of determining the number of individuals/acres that occur in the area or the number that are expected to be impacted, incidental take may be calculated based on the acres of habitat anticipated to be affected by the proposed project. Once the number of individual species or acres of habitat are confirmed, the probability that proposed activities will result in the take of a species must be evaluated.\n\nAfter an allowable level of take is determined, the applicant may begin to prepare the mitigation program. Because projects requiring an Incidental Take Permit are so diverse, applicable mitigation measures should be equally diverse; therefore, limits and rules are not established for this process.\n\nCommon mitigation measures often include the following: \n\nThe general goals of a mitigation program are to offset the immediate incidental take by either positively contributing to the species as a whole or to the objectives of the recovery plan designed for that species by USFWS.\n\nMitigating for habitat loss\n\nMost projects requiring an Incidental Take Permit involve impacts to, or losses of, habitat. Mitigating for habitat loss requires either the replacement or protection of habitat within the HCP area or at another location. This may be accomplished through a variety of methods including:\n\nExamples of habitat mitigation programs\n\n\nIn general, it is recommended that habitat mitigation be located reasonably close to the location of habitat impacted by the proposed action/project, provide similar habitat types, and support the same species expected to be impacted by the proposed action/project; however, these attributes vary from project to project. It is typically expected that the extent of mitigation should mirror the proposed impact. For example, if a project will result in permanent destruction of habitat, mitigation measures will likely require either the creation of new habitat or the protection of habitat, and mitigated habitat should be permanently protected. Similarly, mitigation for Low-Effect HCPs and small projects may involve a payment to a fund or purchasing mitigation credits.\n\nTo ensure the effectiveness of the HCP, it is essential for monitoring to be implemented throughout the development of the action/project and following its completion. HCP monitoring programs are recommended to incorporate the following features:\n\nEvery HCP is required to identify the funding that will be provided for its implementation. Sufficient funding must be provided for all proposed activities, including those relating to any necessary surveys, monitoring programs, mitigation programs, and construction of the proposed project. Funding amounts and contributors will vary based on the scale of the proposed project. Projects impacting large areas of land, for example, typically require funding from multiple sources. The HCP must identify all financial contributors and planned allocation of funds.\n\nPermittees are required to include a discussion of other options, besides the proposed action/project, that would not result in the proposed taking. It is common for this discussion to include two alternatives; one being a \"no action\" alternative under which a permit would not be issued and the proposed project would not be developed, the other being a specific project alternative that would result in a reduced impact/take than the proposed project. All alternatives considered during the permit application and HCP development process must be included. Following the discussion of possible alternatives, the permittee must explain why each of the alternatives was deemed unsuitable and not chosen as the proposed project.\n\nIn the development phase of the HCP process, applicants are encouraged to consider elements that have the potential to change over time. Given the unpredictable nature of the future, it would be impossible to prepare for every situation that has the potential to arise. For this reason, an assurance policy is incorporated in the HCP process.\n\nNo Surprises Policy\n\nThe No Surprises Policy is designed to protect Incidental Take Permit-holders from having to make future revisions to their approved plan due to unforeseen circumstances. This means that once a permittee has prepared a HCP deemed adequate by USFWS/NMFS, has been issued an Incidental Take Permit, and is successfully implementing the approved HCP, USFWS and NMFS will not require revisions be made to the accepted plan (such as additional mitigation) if unexpected circumstances arise.\n\nHabitat conservation plans may vary to some degree in content; however, there are certain elements that are universally required. Inclusion of the following is required of every HCP:\n\nOnce the degree of incidental take is calculated based on the factors discussed above, it is up to UFSWS and NMFS to determine if the proposed incidental take should be authorized. When evaluating the estimated level of take, the following criteria (outlined in ESA section 10(a)(2)(B)) are employed to determine if the incidental take is acceptable:\n\n\nThe HCP must be consistent with these criteria before being approved for an Incidental Take Permit. If the estimated level of take is determined to exceed allowable amounts by USFWS and NMFS, the HCP must be revised to further reduce the potential for take. This is often most easily achieved by increasing the amount of land that will remain undisturbed.\n\nImplementing Agreements are made between the permittee and USFWS/NMFS to assure that the permittee will follow through on their obligation to implement the mitigation program identified by the HCP. They are individually tailored for HCPs and include all applicable permit conditions and requirements of the parties involved. They are signed by all parties, thereby establishing the intent of adhering to the terms identified by the HCP. Implementing Agreements are not required of every HCP; they are most often utilized for large-scale projects involving multiple parties and are rarely used for Low-Effect HCPs.\n\nSince its inclusion in the ESA in 1982, the process of habitat conservation planning has been steadily gaining momentum. Between 1982 and 1992, the USFWS had approved a total of 14 HCPs and had issued 14 incidental take permits. As of December 2005, over 430 HCPs had been officially approved, varying in size and scope, with many more in the development phase.\n\nCongress addressed taking restrictions in the 1990s by creating additional agreements to assist in species recovery. Instituted by USFWS and NMFS, safe harbor agreements and candidate conservation agreements are incentive-driven and voluntary. Because of their greater flexibility for property owners, these agreements are likely to become more popular.\n\nSimilar to HCPs, Safe Harbor Agreements (SHAs) are voluntary agreements between non-federal landowners and USFWS or NMFS. SHAs encourage landowners to create, enhance, or maintain habitat for threatened or endangered species on their property. Prior to the agreement, landowners and agencies establish baseline conditions for the habitat to be capable of supporting the species. The agency provides assurances to the landowners and guarantees that, if the conditions of the SHA are met, the landowners will not be subject to any additional requirements than previously agreed upon. Incidental take by the landowner is authorized as long as the species does not fall below the agreed-upon baseline conditions. Landowners are not bound indefinitely to SHAs and can either renew or let the agreements expire. This allows landowners to freely manage their property, including development, as long as they maintain baseline conditions. As of 2009, USFWS had entered into over 70 SHAs.\n\nSimilar to SHAs, Candidate Conservation Agreements (CCAs) are voluntary agreements between private or public parties (including landowners, state, local, and federal agencies) and USFWS or NMFS. CCAs aim to protect candidate species that are in decline and vulnerable to becoming endangered if measures are not taken to protect their habitat. CCAs encourage landowners to create, enhance, or maintain habitat for these species on their property. CCAs do not provide assurances for landowners or authorize incidental take.\n\nCandidate Conservation Agreements with Assurances (CCAAs) are voluntary agreements between non-federal landowners and USFWS or NMFS. CCAAs provide assurances and authorize a specific allotment of incidental take by the landowner.\n\nHCPs are designed to be flexible to accommodate a range of projects that vary greatly in size and scope, from single-property developments to hundreds of thousands of acres involving multiple parties. An HCP created for construction of a single-family home on a 0.44-acre lot in Scotts Valley, California proposed mitigation and minimization measures aimed at the endangered Mount Hermon June beetle (Polyphylla barbata) and Ben Lomond spineflower (Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana). Measures for the 5,856 ft project included no development on the land where the spineflower is located and elimination of non-native plants growth on the land to prevent competition. Measures to protect the beetle took into account breeding and flight activities and proposed landscaping to promote the beetle's habitat.\n\nAlternatively, the large-scale HCP created for 211,700 acres of the Headwaters Forest in Northern California near Eureka dealt with the largest old-growth redwood ecosystem in the United States. The threatened northern spotted owl (\"Strix occidentalis caurina\") and marbled murrelet (\"Brachyramphus marmoratus\") rely on the large redwoods for nesting as well as the threatened coho salmon (\"Oncorhynchus kisutch\"), who are dependent on the habitat's stream for spawning. Pacific Lumber Company, Scotia Pacific Holding Company, and Salmon Creek Company (collectively known as PALCO) created an HCP in 1998 that addressed road building and timber harvest as the greatest threats to the species. The resulting extensive mitigation and monitoring measures provided strict restrictions for land use, including buffers and operational limitations in riparian areas with active murrelet nests. The HCP also maintained that northern spotted owl nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat be provided and maintained.\n\nThe environmental community and landowners take different stands on HCPs.\n\nStrengths:\n\nWeaknesses:\n\nThe number of approved HCPs has grown since the first HCP was created in 1983 for San Bruno Mountain in San Mateo County, California. Congress wanted the San Bruno Mountain HCP to serve as a model for future HCPs in that it was created from \"an independent exhaustive biological study\" and that it considered the habitat of the mission blue butterfly (Aricia icarioides missionensis) \"to allow for enhancement of the survival of the species\".\nThis model has drawn concern because it focuses more on species survival, while the intent of HCPs is to aid species recovery; and has resulted in HCPs being frequently challenged in court. In \"Sierra Club v. Babbitt, 15 F. Supp. 2D 1274 (S.D.Ala.1998)\", the Plaintiff challenged the USFWS issuance of Incidental Take Permits to the developers of two beachfront condominium projects based on the HCPs submitted as part of the application process. The Plaintiffs argued that the HCPs created for the endangered Alabama beach mouse (\"Peromyscus polionotus ammobates\") did not fulfill the requirements of ESA section 10(a)(2)(B) requiring the development of \"a mitigation program that will minimize and mitigate the impacts of the proposed taking to the maximum extent practicable\". Additionally, the Plaintiff argued that there was insufficient biological data for the Alabama beach mouse species in the HCP, including population abundance, to determine allowable levels of take. The Court found for the Plaintiffs and remanded the decision to issue the Incidental Take Permits to USFWS.\n"}
{"id": "363804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363804", "title": "House of Assembly", "text": "House of Assembly\n\nHouse of Assembly is a name given to the legislature or lower house of a bicameral parliament. In some countries this may be at a subnational level.\n\nHistorically, in British crown colonies as the colony gained more internal responsible government, the House of Assembly superseded the (usually unelected) Legislative Council as the colonial legislature, often becoming the lower house.\n\n"}
{"id": "52103500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52103500", "title": "Infomaniak", "text": "Infomaniak\n\nInfomaniak is Switzerland's largest web-hosting company, also offering live-streaming and video on demand services.\n\nThe company started as a user group founded in 1990 by Boris Siegenthaler in the Canton of Geneva, offering a bulletin board system to its members. In 1994, Siegenthaler and fellow developer Fabian Lucchi opened the Siegenthlaer & Lucchi computer store in the Genevan suburb of Châtelaine. They offered low-cost, custom-built computers – acting as an alternative to the larger distributors available at the time. The same year, the pair purchased a modem and 64 kbs line, becoming the first privately owned Internet service provider in the canton (after CERN and the University of Geneva). From 1995 on and for a few months, the store offered complimentary internet access to all customers who purchased a computer with them.\nIn May 1997, Infomaniak became a fully-fledged ISP with the creation of TWS Infomaniak SA – the company developed its offer based on low-cost internet access and web-hosting services alongside its staple of computer equipment retail.\n\nOn 1 January 1998, the Swiss state monopoly on telecom services came to an end and new providers were allowed onto the Swiss market. Sunrise, a joint-venture between Tele Danmark and BT, started offering free internet access services, forcing the company to revise its strategy: in 1999, TWS Infomaniak was reincorporated to create Infomaniak Network. They specialised in web-hosting services for private users and small and medium-sized enterprises, including basic.ch, the first Swiss web radio.\n\nBy 2003, Infomaniak was the largest web-host in Western Switzerland, and by July 2005, it was the largest web-radio broadcaster in Western Switzerland and France.\n\nIn 2007, the company created and launched their sustainability charter. As a result, it implemented a number of key measures including joining an ethical pension fund on behalf of its employees, a commitment to sustainable travel, and donating 1% of its annual revenue to a range of NGOs.\n\nIn 2010, the company created a subsidiary – Infomaniak Entertainment – marking the company's expansion into the ticketing, staff, and accreditation-management.\n\nInfomaniak's main business remains as a webhost and registrar. In 2011, the company announced that they managed more than 100,000 domain names. They opened their third data centre in 2014. As with all their facilities, the new data centre was fully sustainable – using 100% renewable energy and low-voltage technologies. The centre was heralded as the \"greenest there is in Switzerland\" with a PUE under 1.1 which won the company the Geneva sustainability prize. A few months later, Infomaniak obtains its ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certifications for environmental and energy management systems.\n\nInfomaniak fully switched to SSD technology at the end of 2015. The latest figures from the company suggest that it managed more than 200,000 domain names, 150,000 site, and 350 radio/TV stations in 2016. It has also become one of the first web companies to implement the new Let's Encrypt SSL Certificates.\n\nAccording to CEO Boris Siegenthaler, Infomaniak's customer base is composed of businesses (70%) and individuals (30%), small to mid-sized businesses representing a significant portion of sales. Around 30% of customers come from France and Belgium, and as of 2016, the company had 60 employees.\n"}
{"id": "36054398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36054398", "title": "International Association of Labour Law Journals", "text": "International Association of Labour Law Journals\n\nThe International Association of Labour Law Journals is a learned society that aims to promote the international study and exchange of labour law publications. It consists of twenty-one law reviews published in countries across the world. The current president is Steven L. Willborn (University of Nebraska-Lincoln College of Law).\n\nThe association seeks to fulfil three principal goals: (1) Further academic achievement in the areas of labour and employment law; (2) Foster sharing of information relevant to the publishing process; and (3) Create greater connections between the editors-in-chief of national and international labour and employment law journals.\n\nThe late Italian jurist Marco Biagi was instrumental in forming the Association, originally called the Club of Labour Law Journals, and served as its first president. Biagi was assassinated in 2002 by the Red Brigades-PCC. In his honour, the Association Awards the Marco Biagi Award each year for the best paper on comparative or international labour law by a young scholar.\n"}
{"id": "49163120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49163120", "title": "International Review of Law and Economics", "text": "International Review of Law and Economics\n\nThe International Review of Law and Economics is an academic journal covering the intersection of law and economics. It was established in 1981 and is published by Elsevier. The editors-in-chief are S.A. Baker\n(Washington University in St. Louis), G. Dari-Mattiacci (Universiteit van Amsterdam), N. Garoupa (Texas A&M University and Católica Global Law School), E.A. Helland (Claremont McKenna College), and J. Klick (University of Pennsylvania). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.570.\n"}
{"id": "40657131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40657131", "title": "Jotwell", "text": "Jotwell\n\nThe Journal of Things We Like (Lots), better known as Jotwell, is an online legal journal specializing in short reviews of recent scholarship relevant to the law. It is run from the University of Miami School of Law and appears at jotwell.com. Unlike many typical law journals, most of which are edited by students, \"Jotwell\" is primarily edited by the faculty editors of each section.\n\nFounded in 2008, \"Jotwell\" publishes short reviews (or “jots”) by law professors of what they believe to be the best recent scholarship relevant to their field. These jots are typically 500–1,000 words.\n\n\"Jotwell\" is organized into sections, each reflecting a subject area of legal specialization, such as constitutional law, corporate law, and intellectual property law. Each section is managed by section editors with independent editorial control. The section editors select 10-20 contributing editors, each of whom commits to writing once a year, ensuring that every section publishes an article once or twice per month.\n\nThe main site, jotwell.com, aggregates the content from all the sections. New articles appear between three and five times per week. All content is available for free and open to reader comment. \"Jotwell\" carries no advertising and is supported by the University of Miami School of Law.\n\n\"Jotwell\" editor-in-chief is A. Michael Froomkin, the Laurie Silvers & Mitchell Rubenstein Distinguished Professor of Law at the University of Miami School of Law. \"Jotwell\" is published using WordPress and a custom theme.\n\nAll \"Jotwell\" articles are available under a Creative Commons license, the Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 License.\n\n\"Jotwell\" states that its objective is to help academics and others identify the best recent legal scholarship, a task made necessary by the proliferation of law reviews – more than 350 in North America alone. The journal’s mission statement also argues that new scholarly intermediaries are needed now that major journals such as the \"Harvard Law Review\" and the \"Yale Law Journal\" no longer function as “gatekeepers of legitimacy”.\n\nIn an article published in 2012, Ross E. Davies, a professor at George Mason University School of Law and the editor-in-chief of \"The Green Bag\" suggested that if \"Jotwell\" were to expand \"its coverage to include the best old (as well as new) legal scholarship, and occasionally narrowing its focus to the questions presented in a Supreme Court case, it could produce first rate amicus briefs of scholarship\" which would help the Supreme Court find scholarship relevant to its decisions.\n\nIn 2014, the ABA Journal selected Jotwell as one of its 'Blawg 100' - the top legal blogs of 2013.\n\n\"Jotwell\" has also been called an example of a trend towards web-only law journals. It has been criticized as \"highly US-centric\" even if \"really neat\". \"Jotwell\" has also been criticized for focusing too much on \"articles placed in top law journals.\"\n\nThe number of sections has grown gradually since 2008. Currently the sections—each of which is organized as its own independent blog—are: Administrative Law, Classics, Constitutional Law, Corporate Law, Courts Law, Criminal Law, Cyberlaw, Equality, Family Law, Health Law, Intellectual Property Law, Jurisprudence, Lex (which includes Arbitration, Art & Cultural Property Law, Education Law, Election Law, Energy Law, Environmental Law, Immigration Law, Librarianship & Legal Technology and native Peoples Law), Legal History, Legal Profession, Tax Law, Tort Law, Trusts & Estates, and Work Law.\n"}
{"id": "12992431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12992431", "title": "KidsCo", "text": "KidsCo\n\nKidsCo was an international children's entertainment brand founded by Canadian broadcaster Corus Entertainment's Nelvana, American-based producer DIC Entertainment, and European broadcaster Sparrowhawk Media Group in April 2007. By the end of 2007, Sparrowhawk was purchased by media conglomerate NBC Universal, thus giving the company its share in the brand. In June 2008, DiC Entertainment was acquired by Cookie Jar Group, thus also having a stake. In May 2012, Cookie Jar's minority shares in KidsCo were brought by NBCUniversal and Corus, which saw NBCUniversal become majority shareholder with a 51% share while Corus obtained a 43.8% share.\n\nKidsCo was closed down worldwide on early 2014 by its owners, in light of NBCUniversal's acquisition of US children's network Sprout and \"growing challenges in the international children's television industry. The network was based in London at the time of its closure.\n\nThe first KidsCo networks were launched in Poland, Romania and Turkey on September 7, 2007. The channel also launched in Hungary, and Russia.\n\nOn January 1, 2008, KidsCo launched in the Philippines on SkyCable and in the Arab World on Orbit Showtime on March 20, 2008. On the first trimester of 2009 the channel was launched in Portugal on Optimus Clix. The channel become available also on Vodafone Casa TV platform on July 25, 2010.\n\nOn November 15, 2009, KidsCo launched in Australia on Foxtel.\n\nIn November 2009, Kidsco launched in Greece on Conn-x TV and in Cyprus on CytaVision. In November 2010 KidsCo became carried via Greece's IPTV On Telecoms platform. On May 1, 2010 Kidsco launched in South Africa on TopTV and on DStv on July 12, 2010.\n\nOn January 8, 2013, KidsCo began broadcasting from Corus Quay in Toronto - a state-of-the-art facility that will broadcast the channel to over 100 territories in 18 languages. A refreshed logo, on-air look and website was also launched.\n\nCiting growing challenges in the international children's television industry, and the addition of the competing USA channel Sprout to NBC's portfolio due to its recent acquisition by Comcast, KidsCo announced that it would shut down in early 2014.\n\nThe first KidsCo feed to close was in Turkey on January 1 (New Year's Day 2014). The main KidsCo feeds in Southeast Asia and Australia closed down soon after on February 13. The channels did not have replacements. \n\nThe latest news about Kidsco: Hashtag Kids Co. opened April 16 in Fulshear. The store specializes in clothing for children and other retail items, such as shoes, accessories and toys. Featured brands include Natives and Under Armour for Kids.\n\nNot all of the above shows available in all areas.\n"}
{"id": "12512031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12512031", "title": "Laws against Holocaust denial", "text": "Laws against Holocaust denial\n\nHolocaust denial, the denial of the systematic genocidal killing of approximately six million Jews in Europe by Nazi Germany in the 1930s and 1940s, is illegal in 16 European countries and Israel. Many countries also have broader laws that criminalize genocide denial. Of the countries that ban Holocaust denial, some, such as Austria, Germany, Hungary, and Romania, were among the perpetrators of the Holocaust, and many of these also ban other elements associated with Nazism, such as the expression of Nazi symbols.\n\nLaws against Holocaust denial have been proposed in many nations (in addition to those nations that have criminalized such acts) including the United States and the United Kingdom. Such proposals for laws have received criticism and faced opposition, most significantly, from Civil Rights and Human Rights advocates who contend that the such laws would violate people's established rights of Freedom of Speech and Freedom of Expression. Organizations representing Jews and other groups victimized during the Holocaust have generally been split, in opinion, about such laws. \n\nScholars have pointed out that countries that specifically ban Holocaust denial generally have legal systems that limit speech in other ways, such as banning \"hate speech\". According to D. D. Guttenplan, this is a split between the \"\"common law countries\" of the United States, Ireland and many British Commonwealth countries from the \"civil law countries\" of continental Europe and Scotland. In civil law countries the law is generally more proscriptive. Also, under the civil law regime, the judge acts more as an inquisitor, gathering and presenting evidence as well as interpreting it\". Michael Whine argues that Holocaust denial can inspire violence against Jews; he states, \"Jews' experience in the post-World War II era suggests that their rights are best protected in open and tolerant democracies that actively prosecute all forms of racial and religious hatred\".\n\nJános Kis and in particular András Schiffer feel the work of Holocaust deniers should be protected by a universal right to free speech. \nAn identical argument was used by the Hungarian Constitutional Court (Alkotmánybíróság) led by László Sólyom when it struck down a law against Holocaust denial in 1992.\n\nThe argument that laws punishing Holocaust denial are incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights have been rejected by institutions of the Council of Europe (the European Commission of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights) and also by the United Nations Human Rights Committee.\n\nHistorians who oppose such laws include Raul Hilberg, Richard J. Evans, and Pierre Vidal-Naquet. Other prominent opponents of the laws are Timothy Garton Ash, Christopher Hitchens, Peter Singer, and Noam Chomsky. An uproar resulted when Serge Thion used one of Chomsky's essays without explicit permission as a foreword to a book of Holocaust denial essays (see Faurisson affair). These laws have also been criticized on the grounds that education is more effective than legislation at combating Holocaust denial and that the laws will make martyrs out of those imprisoned for their violation.\n\nWhile Australia lacks a specific law against Holocaust denial, Holocaust denial is prosecuted in Australia under various laws against \"hate speech\" and \"racial vilification\". Gerald Fredrick Töben and his Adelaide Institute are the best-known case of someone being prosecuted in Australia for Holocaust denial.\n\nIn Austria, the Verbotsgesetz 1947 provided the legal framework for the process of denazification in Austria and suppression of any potential revival of Nazism. In 1992, it was amended to prohibit the denial or gross minimisation of the Holocaust.\n\nIn Belgium, Holocaust denial was made illegal in 1995.\n\nIn May 2007 Ekrem Ajanovic, a Bosniak MP in the Bosnian Parliament proposed a legislation on criminalizing the denial of Holocaust, genocide and crimes against humanity. This was the first time that somebody in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament proposed such a legislation. Bosnian Serb MPs voted against this legislation and proposed that such an issue should be resolved within the Criminal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Following this, on 6 May 2009 Bosniak MPs Adem Huskic, Ekrem Ajanovic and Remzija Kadric proposed to the BH parliament a change to the Criminal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina where Holocaust, genocide and crimes against humanity denial would be criminalized. Bosnian Serb MPs have repeatedly been against such a legislation claiming that the law \"would cause disagreement and even animosity\" according to SNSD member Lazar Prodanovic.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, Holocaust denial and denial of communist-perpetrated atrocities is illegal.\n\nIn France, the Gayssot Act, voted for on July 13, 1990, makes it illegal to question the existence of crimes that fall in the category of crimes against humanity as defined in the London Charter of 1945, on the basis of which Nazi leaders were convicted by the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg in 1945–46. When the act was challenged by Robert Faurisson, the Human Rights Committee upheld it as a necessary means to counter possible antisemitism. Similarly, the applications of Pierre Marais and Roger Garaudy were rejected by the European Court of Human Rights, in 1996 and 2003.\n\nIn 2012, the Constitutional Council of France ruled that to extend the Gayssot Act to the Armenian Genocide denial was unconstitutional because it violated the freedom of speech. The Gayssot Act itself, however, was found consistent with the Constitution four years later.\n\nIn Germany, \"Volksverhetzung\" (\"incitement of the people\") is a concept in German criminal law that bans incitement to hatred against segments of the population. It often applies to (though not limited to) trials relating to Holocaust denial in Germany. In addition, Strafgesetzbuch § 86a outlaws various symbols of \"unconstitutional organisations\", such as Nazi symbolism or the ISIS flag.\n\nThe definition of section 6 of the Code of Crimes against International Law referenced in the above § 130 is as follows:\n\nThe following sections of the German criminal code are also relevant:\n\nIn September 2014, with a vote of 54 out of 99 present of the 300-member Hellenic Parliament (the body was in summer session at the time), Greece amended its 1979 law 'On the penalization of actions or activities intending unto racial discrimination' (N.927/1979) to make malicious denial of the Holocaust and other crimes against humanity for the purposes of inciting violence, discrimination or hatred or by way of threat or insult, a criminal offense. In contrast to other European countries, the Greek law is not a blanket ban on expressing the opinion that a genocide did not take place, but rather requires an additional condition of intending to cause violence, incite hatred or threaten or insult a protected group.\n\nThis law was harshly criticised at the time of its passage for its vague language and alleged infringement of freedom of expression. In a letter signed by 139 Greek historians, they argued that \"as international experience has shown, such provisions lead down dangerous paths: they critically wound the democratic and inalienable right to freedom of speech, while simultaneously not being at all effective in terms of fighting racism and nazism. Indeed, they often lead to the opposite result, allowing the enemies of democracy to present themselves to public opinion as \"victims\" of censorship and authoritarianism. The conditions set forth in the bill, being highly vague and fluid, are unfortunately not a guarantee.\" \n\nThe first prosecution under Article 2 of the law was brought against German historian Heinz A. Richter, who was tried in absentia for denying Nazi atrocities in Crete during World War II. The court found Richter not guilty on the grounds that, while his work was proven to contain historical inaccuracies, there was no evidence he intended to incite hatred against the people of Crete and that the 2014 law was unconstitutional, as it violated the principle of freedom of speech. . Though the finding of unconstitutionality is not finally binding, as it was issued by a court of first instance, as of March 2018, no one has been successfully convicted in Greece for genocide denial under this law .\n\nThe National Assembly of Hungary declared the denial or trivialization of the Holocaust a crime punishable by up to three years' imprisonment on February 23, 2010. The law was signed by President László Sólyom in March 2010. On June 8, 2010, the newly elected Fidesz-dominated parliament changed the formulation of the law to \"punish those, who deny the genocides committed by national socialist or communist systems, or deny other facts of deeds against humanity\". The word \"Holocaust\" is no longer in the law.\n\nIn 2011, the first man was charged with Holocaust denial in Budapest. The Court sentenced the man to 18 months in prison, suspended for three years, and probation. He also had to visit either Budapest's memorial museum, Auschwitz or Yad Vashem in Jerusalem. He chose his local Holocaust Memorial Center and had to make three visits in total and record his observations.\n\nIn January 2015, the court ordered far-right on-line newspaper \"Kuruc.info\" to delete its article denying the Holocaust published in July 2013, which was the first ruling in Hungary of its kind. The Association for Civil Liberties (TASZ) offered free legal aid to the website as a protest against restrictions on freedom of speech, but the site refused citing the liberal views of the association, and also refused to delete the article.\n\nIn Israel, a law to criminalize Holocaust denial was passed by the Knesset on July 8, 1986.\n\nThe Italian parliament, extending an anti-racism law from 1975, approved Law 16 June 2016 n. 115, criminalizing the spreading of Holocaust denial and making conviction for the crime subject to imprisonment for two to six years. \n\nAlthough not specifically outlining national socialist crimes, item five of section 283 of Liechtenstein's criminal code prohibits the denial of genocide.\n\nIn Lithuania, approval and denial of Nazi or Soviet crimes is prohibited.\n\nIn Luxembourg, Article 457-3 of the Criminal Code, Act of 19 July 1997 outlaws Holocaust denial and denial of other genocides. The punishment is imprisonment for between 8 days and 6 months and/or a fine. The offence of \"negationism and revisionism\" applies to:\n\nWhile Holocaust denial is not explicitly illegal in the Netherlands, the courts consider it a form of spreading hatred and therefore an offence. According to the Dutch public prosecution office, offensive remarks are only punishable by Dutch law if they equate to discrimination against a particular group. The relevant laws of the Dutch penal code are as follows:\n\nIn Poland, Holocaust denial and the denial of communist crimes is punishable by law.\n\nAlthough denial of the Holocaust is not expressly illegal in Portugal, Portuguese law prohibits denial of war crimes if used to incite to discrimination.\n\nIn Romania, Emergency Ordinance No. 31 of March 13, 2002 prohibits Holocaust denial. It was ratified on May 6, 2006. The law also prohibits racist, fascist, xenophobic symbols, uniforms and gestures: proliferation of which is punishable with imprisonment from between six months to five years.\n\nIn May 2014, Russia's President Vladimir Putin signed a law making the denial of Nazi crimes and \"wittingly spreading false information about the activity of the USSR during the years of World War Two\" or portraying Nazis as heroes a criminal offence.\n\nIn Slovakia, Holocaust denial has been a crime since 2001 (law 485/2001), and the penal law (300/2005) specifies in §422d that \"who publicly denies, denies, approves or tries to justify the Holocaust, crimes of regimes based on fascist ideology, crimes of regimes based on communist ideology or crimes of other similar movements that use violence, the threat of violence or the threat of other serious harm with the aim of suppressing the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons shall be punished by imprisonment of six months to three years\".\n\nGenocide denial was illegal in Spain until the Constitutional Court of Spain ruled that the words \"deny or\" were unconstitutional in its judgement of November 7, 2007. As a result, Holocaust denial is legal in Spain, although justifying the Holocaust or any other genocide is an offence punishable by imprisonment in accordance with the constitution.\n\nHolocaust denial is not expressly illegal in Switzerland, but the denial of genocide and other crimes against humanity is an imprisonable offence.\n\nThe European Union's Executive Commission proposed a European Union-wide anti-racism xenophobia law in 2001, which included the criminalization of Holocaust denial. On July 15, 1996, the Council of the European Union adopted the Joint action/96/443/JHA concerning action to combat racism and xenophobia. During the German presidency there was an attempt to extend this ban. Full implementation was blocked by the United Kingdom and the Nordic countries because of the need to balance the restrictions on voicing racist opinions against the freedom of expression. As a result, a compromise has been reached within the EU and while the EU has not prohibited Holocaust denial outright, a maximum term of three years in jail is optionally available to all member nations for \"denying or grossly trivialising crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes\".\n\nThe EU extradition policy regarding Holocaust denial was tested in the UK during the 2008 failed extradition case brought against the suspected Holocaust denier Frederick Toben by the German government. As there is no specific crime of Holocaust denial in the UK, the German government had applied for Toben's extradition for racial and xenophobic crimes. Toben's extradition was refused by the Westminster Magistrates' Court, and the German government withdrew its appeal to the High Court.\n\nLaws against Holocaust denial have been enforced in most jurisdictions that have them. Convictions and sentencings include:\n\n"}
{"id": "8666686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8666686", "title": "Layered Model of Regulation", "text": "Layered Model of Regulation\n\nThe layered model of telecommunication regulation is a proposal for nascent US telecommunication public policies that mimic the horizontal characteristics of Internet Protocol communication and the OSI model. Advocates of layered telecommunication policies argue that current US regulations are not longer appropriate for new information technologies as functionally similar services (such as DSL and cable modems) are not governed by a common set of rules but instead subject to separate regulatory systems written for each distinct media type such as the telephone or cable television systems.\n\nThe layered policy model proposes a regulatory system that classifies technologies based on their common layered characteristics instead of regulating each communication technology with a disparate set of rules. Horizontal policy advocates argue that this modular approach to regulation promotes competition by forcing all telecommunication services to adhere to a uniform set of characteristic-based rules, thereby enhancing the competitive characteristics of an open marketplace.\n\nLayered policy advocates argue that horizontal policies will provide regulatory clarity for current technologies and they will also be adaptable to future technologies. Layered policies could also provide an equal framework for local governments to provide municipal broadband services in a fair and competitive manner alongside private telecommunication providers.\n\n"}
{"id": "31132969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31132969", "title": "Mangold v Helm", "text": "Mangold v Helm\n\nMangold v Helm (2005) C-144/04 was a case before the European Court of Justice (ECJ).\n\nMangold was a 56-year-old German man employed on a fixed term contract in a permanent full-time job. The German government introduced the so-called Employment Promotion Act 1996 (\"Beschäftigungsförderungsgesetz\") which allowed fixed term contracts for a two-year maximum, and otherwise were unlawful unless they could be objectively justified. But even this protection was removed (apparently to \"promote employment\") if the employee was over 60. Further amendments then changed the age to 52. Mr Mangold claimed that the lack of protection, over age 52, was unjustified age discrimination.\n\nThe ECJ held in its judgment the German law contravened the Employment Equality Framework Directive, even though it did not have to be implemented until the end of 2006. It said that, in general terms, legislation that lets employers treat people differently because of their age “offends the principle” in international law of eliminating discrimination on the basis of age. The ECJ ruled that national courts must set aside any provision of national law which conflicts with the directive even before the period for implementation has expired.\n\nBecause it recognised that equal treatment is a general principle of EU law, \"Mangold v Helm\" is significant for three critical reasons. First, it means that a claim for equal treatment is available for private citizens on a horizontal direct effect basis. It is unnecessary to wait for a Directive to have been implemented before making a claim to have caused discrimination. Second, it means that member state and EU legislation, like Directives, may be challenged on the ground that they fail to comply with the general principle of equal treatment. Third, because the court did not limit its remarks to the particular grounds of discrimination presently found in the equal treatment Directives (on sex, race, and disability, belief, sexual orientation and age) it follows that claims against unjustified discrimination on the basis of other characteristics may be possible (such as caste, education, property or military service). It would be likely to reflect the jurisprudence from the European Convention on Human Rights, where Article 14 which lists similar grounds to those already in the EU Directives but also adds \"or other status\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20938550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20938550", "title": "Marine Insurance Act 1906", "text": "Marine Insurance Act 1906\n\nThe Marine Insurance Act 1906 (8 Edw. 7 c.41) is a UK Act of Parliament regulating marine insurance. The Act applies both to \"ship & cargo\" marine insurance, and to P&I cover. \n\nThe Act was drafted by Sir Mackenzie Dalzell Chalmers, who had earlier drafted the Sale of Goods Act 1893. The Act is a codifying act, that is to say, it attempts to collate existing common law and present it in a statutory (i.e. “codified”) form. In the event, the Act did more than merely codify the law, and some new elements were introduced in 1906. The Marine Insurance Act 1906 has been highly influential, as it governs not merely English Law, but it also dominates marine insurance worldwide through its wholesale adoption by other jurisdictions.\n\nTwo modern statutes, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (“CIDRA”) and the Insurance Act 2015 have made amendments to the law of insurance.\n\nThe most important sections of this Act include:\n\nSchedule 1 of the Act contains a list of definitions; schedule 2 contains the model policy wording.\n\nThe Marine Insurance Act 1906 was beginning to show its age, and a consultative process has been underway to reform the Act. During the review. the Law Commission examined \"inter alia\" the issues of uberrimae fidei, disclosure and insurable interest. Insurance involves the transference of risk in return for payment of a premium, and it is necessary for the assured to make to the insurer a full disclosure of all material risks.\n\nIt had been expected that both the 1906 and 1909 Act might be repealed and replaced by a single new statute, closely resembling its predecessor, with similar phraseology and section numbering. Perhaps disappointingly, the reforms have taken a different course: two new statutes, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (“CIDRA”) and the Insurance Act 2015 have addressed insurance in general, and have amended the law in several ways.\n\nPart 5 of the Insurance Act 2015 addresses \"Good faith\" as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "6720465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6720465", "title": "Minor in Possession", "text": "Minor in Possession\n\nIn the United States, a Minor in Possession, or a MIP, (also referred to as a PAULA, Possession of Alcohol Under the Legal Age) is illegal, typically a misdemeanor. In California, depending on the county in which the person is charged, the crime may also be charged as an infraction. Anyone who is under the age of 21 and possesses alcohol in the United States, with the exception of special circumstances, is violating the law of the state.\n\nThe term \"Minor in Possession\" is a misnomer, because Americans between 18 and 20 years old are not minors but legal adults, except for residents of Mississippi and 18-year-old residents of Alabama and Nebraska.\n\nPunishments for minors in possession vary greatly from state-to-state. Since alcohol enforcement (and the establishment of drinking ages) is the responsibility of the individual states, only local and state agencies can legally write a minors in possession citation. As such, each state levies its own fines and punishments for a minors in possession.\n\nIn some states, a simple first-time minors in possession without any other circumstances (such as driving or public intoxication) may only involve a fine of $100–200. Often fines are reduced or eliminated provided the person convicted completes a program such as alcohol education, probation, or community service. In some states, a fine is eliminated, supplemented or accompanied with a loss of the accused driver license for a period of time ranging from 30 days to 12 months. For example, violation of California's Business & Professions Code Section 25662, regarding persons under 21 in possession of alcohol, carries a punishment of $250 and a mandatory revocation of driving privileges for one year in accordance with Vehicle Code Section 13202.5.\n\nSubsequent offenses or a person with a preexisting criminal record may frequently receive a full fine, or in some extreme cases, several days in jail. In many cases a third MIP may result in a loss of the accused driver's license until the age of 21.\n\nIn Washington State, the statutes impose that: providing to and possession of alcohol by minors (persons under 21) is a gross misdemeanor with a potential of $5,000 and a year in jail. Washington State's law does not apply to liquor given or permitted to be given to a person under the age of twenty-one years by a parent or guardian and consumed in the presence of the parent or guardian. Additionally, this RCW does not authorize consumption or possession of liquor by a person under the age of twenty-one years on any premises licensed by the state, such as a bar or restaurant. Also, A person under the age of twenty-one years who experiences alcohol poisoning and is in need of medical assistance shall not be charged or prosecuted under subsection (2)(a) of this section, if the evidence for the charge was obtained as a result of the poisoning and need for medical assistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "343375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343375", "title": "Monopoly on violence", "text": "Monopoly on violence\n\nThe monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force, also known as the monopoly on violence (), is a core concept of modern public law, which goes back to Jean Bodin's 1576 work \"Les Six livres de la République\" and Thomas Hobbes' 1651 book \"Leviathan\". As the defining conception of the state, it was first described in sociology by Max Weber in his essay \"Politics as a Vocation\" (1919). Weber claims that the state is the \"only human Gemeinschaft which lays claim to the monopoly on the legitimated use of physical force. However, this monopoly is limited to a certain geographical area, and in fact this limitation to a particular area is one of the things that defines a state.\" In other words, Weber describes the state as any organization that succeeds in holding the exclusive right to use, threaten, or authorize physical force against residents of its territory. Such a monopoly, according to Weber, must occur via a process of legitimation.\n\nMax Weber wrote in \"Politics as a Vocation\" that a fundamental characteristic of statehood is the claim of such a monopoly. His expanded definition was that something is \"a 'state' if and insofar as its administrative staff successfully upholds a claim on the 'monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force' () in the enforcement of its order.\" Weber's concept has been formalized to show that the exclusive policing power of the state benefits social welfare via private property, provided the state acts benevolently in the interest of its citizens.\n\nAccording to Weber, the state is that \"human community that (successfully) claims the monopoly of the legitimate use of violence within a given territory.\" The public police and military are its main instruments, but private security might also be considered to have \"the 'right' to use violence\" so long as the sole source of this perceived right is state sanction. Weber applied several caveats to his discussion of the state's monopoly of violence:\n\nRobert Hinrichs Bates argues that the state itself has no violent power; rather, the people hold all the power of coercion to ensure that order and other equilibriums hold up. The implication of this is that there is a frontier of well-being in stateless societies, that can only be surpassed if some level of coercion or violence is used to elevate the complexity of the state. In other words, without investing in troops, police, or some sort of enforcement mechanism, early states cannot enjoy the law and order (or prosperity) of more developed states.\n\nThe capacity of a state is often measured in terms of its fiscal and legal capacity. Fiscal capacity meaning the state's ability to recover taxation to provide public goods, and legal capacity meaning the state's supremacy as sole arbiter of conflict resolution and contract enforcement. Without some sort of coercion, the state would not otherwise be able to enforce its legitimacy in its desired sphere of influence. In early and developing states, this role was often played by the \"stationary bandit\" who defended villagers from roving bandits, in the hope that the protection would incentivize villagers to invest in economic production, and the stationary bandit could eventually use its coercive power to expropriate some of that wealth.\n\nIn regions where state presence is minimally felt, non-state actors can use their monopoly of violence to establish legitimacy and order. For example, the Sicilian Mafia originated as a protection racket providing buyers and sellers in the black market with protection. Without this type of enforcement, market participants would not be otherwise confident enough to trust their counter-parties for valid contract enforcement and the market would collapse.\n\nEven in illicit and underground markets (somewhat akin to stateless societies), violence is used to enforce contracts in the absence of accessible legal conflict resolution. Charles Tilly continues this comparison to say that warmaking and statemaking are actually the best representations of what organized crime can grow into.\n\nAccording to Raymond Aron, international relations are characterized by the absence of widely acknowledged legitimacy in the use of force between states.\n\nMartha Lizabeth Phelps, writing in \"Politics & Policy\", takes Weber's ideas on the legitimacy of private security a step further. Phelps claims that the use of private actors by the state remains legitimate if and only if military contractors are perceived \nas being controlled by the state.\n"}
{"id": "26352268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26352268", "title": "Montana Justice Foundation", "text": "Montana Justice Foundation\n\nThe Montana Justice Foundation (MJF), founded in 1979, is a charitable, non-profit organization that purports to make justice accessible to all Montanans.\n\nThe MJF is the charitable arm of the State Bar of Montana. It funds and supports organizations committed to ensuring that all Montanans, especially the vulnerable and under served, have meaningful access to the civil justice system. IOLTA (Interest on Lawyers Trust Accounts) funds are collected by the MJF and distributed through a comprehensive grants program. The MJF strategically and objectively allocates its resources to dozens of outstanding legal aid organizations and access to justice initiatives in the state of Montana. Its primary focus is the funding of the Montana Legal Services Association. However, as IOLTA funds permit, other grants are awarded. Past grantee organizations have included Domestic Violence Education & Services (DOVES), CASA of Missoula, Eastern Montana CASA/GAL, Community Mediation Center of Bozeman, The Nurturing Center, Community Dispute Resolution Center of Missoula, and Cascade County Law Clinic.\n\nClients who receive assistance through guarantee organizations are primarily at 125% of the Federal poverty rate or lower. The legal services provided focus on clients’ most basic human needs: preserving housing, protecting subsistence income, obtaining access to health care, providing food and clothing for families and maintaining their safety, independence, and dignity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2894648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2894648", "title": "National Committee for Modification of the Volstead Act", "text": "National Committee for Modification of the Volstead Act\n\nThe American Federation of Labor's National Committee for Moderation of the Volstead Act was created in January 1931. It was headed by Matthew Woll, who testified before a Congressional committee that workers and organized labor opposed prohibition. Labor leadership argued that the 18th Amendment establishing prohibition was the first instance in American history when an amendment to the United States Constitution denied rights instead of creating or expanding them. The Committee's activities helped lead to the repeal of prohibition. \n"}
{"id": "25214820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25214820", "title": "Naz Foundation v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi", "text": "Naz Foundation v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi\n\nNaz Foundation v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi is a landmark Indian case decided by a two-judge bench of the Delhi High Court, which held that treating consensual homosexual sex between adults as a crime is a violation of fundamental rights protected by India's Constitution. The verdict resulted in the decriminalization of homosexual acts involving consenting adults throughout India. This was later overturned by the Supreme Court of India in Suresh Kumar Koushal vs. Naz Foundation, in which a 2 judge bench reinstated Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code. However, even that was overturned by a 5 judge bench in Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India in 2018, decriminalizing homosexuality once again. \n\nSection 377 of the Indian Penal Code, introduced during British rule of India, criminalizes \"carnal intercourse against the order of nature\". This phrase was interpreted to mean all forms of sexual activity other than heterosexual penile-vaginal intercourse.\n\nThe movement to repeal Section 377 was led by the Naz Foundation (India) Trust, a non-governmental organization, which filed a lawsuit in the Delhi High Court in 2001, seeking legalisation of homosexual intercourse between consenting adults. This was the second such petition, the first filed in 1994 by AIDS Bhedbhav Virodhi Andolan. In 2003, the Delhi High Court refused to consider a petition regarding the legality of the law, saying that the petitioners had no \"locus standi\" in the matter. Naz Foundation appealed to the Supreme Court of India against the decision of the High Court to dismiss the petition on technical grounds. The Supreme Court decided that Naz Foundation had the standing to file a public interest lawsuit in this case, and sent the case back to the Delhi High Court to reconsider it on the merits.\n\nIn 2006, the National AIDS Control Organisation filed an affidavit stating that the enforcement of Section 377 violates LGBT rights. Subsequently, there was a significant intervention in the case by a Delhi-based coalition of LGBT, women's and human rights activists called \"Voices Against 377\", which supported the demand to \"read down\" section 377 to exclude adult consensual sex from within its purview.\n\nThe case came up for hearing before a bench comprising Chief Justice Ajit Prakash Shah and Justice S. Muralidhar, and the judgment was delivered on 2 July 2009. The Court located the rights to dignity and privacy within the right to life and liberty guaranteed by Article 21 (under the fundamental Right to Freedom charter) of the Constitution, and held that criminalization of consensual gay sex violated these rights.\n\nThe Court also held that Section 377 offends the guarantee of equality enshrined in Article 14 (under the fundamental Right to Equality charter) of the Constitution, because it creates an unreasonable classification and targets homosexuals as a class. Public \"animus\" and disgust towards a particular social group or vulnerable minority, it held, is not a valid ground for classification under Article 14. Article 15 of the Constitution forbids discrimination based on certain characteristics, including sex. The Court held that the word \"sex\" includes not only biological sex but also sexual orientation, and therefore discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation is not permissible under Article 15. The Court also noted that the right to life under Article 21 includes the right to health, and concluded that Section 377 is an impediment to public health because it hinders HIV-prevention efforts.\n\nThe Court did not strike down Section 377 as a whole. The section was declared unconstitutional insofar it criminalises consensual sexual acts of adults in private. The judgement keeps intact the provision insofar as it applies to non-consensual non-vaginal intercourse and intercourse with minors. The court stated that the judgement would hold until Parliament chose to amend the law.\n\nAccording to an eyewitness account, as the Chief Justice read out the conclusion, \"an audible gasp went around the room. By the time the Chief Justice had finished reading the conclusion of the judgment, people were openly weeping and there were handshakes and hugs all around.\" Within hours, news of the judgment was being carried by international news sites. Lawrence Liang called it India's \"Roe\" moment. Activists, commentators and organizations like UNAIDS lauded the decision, while some religious leaders and politicians voiced displeasure over the judgment.\n\nSome special leave petitions were filed in the Supreme Court requesting an interim stay of the judgment, pending an appeal. However, the Supreme Court rejected those requests. A batch of appeals were filed with the Supreme Court, challenging the Delhi High Court judgment. On 27 March 2012, the Supreme Court reserved verdict on these. After initially opposing the judgment, the Attorney General G. E. Vahanvati decided not to file any appeal against the Delhi High Court's verdict, stating, \"insofar as [Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code] criminalises consensual sexual acts of adults in private [before it was struck down by the High Court] was imposed upon Indian society due to the moral views of the British rulers.\"\n\nOn December 11, 2013, the Supreme Court's two member bench (Justices G. S. Singhvi and S. J. Mukhopadhaya) overturned the decision of the Delhi High Court. It said that the 2009 order of the High Court is \"constitutionally unsustainable as only Parliament can change a law, not courts\".\n\nBut, on 6 September 2018, a five judge constitutional bench of the Supreme Court of India, in a landmark judgement, decriminalized homosexuality and banned discrimination based on sexual orientation.\n\n"}
{"id": "34332468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34332468", "title": "NewsRight", "text": "NewsRight\n\nNewsRight, LLC (formerly News Licensing Group, NLG) is an online content-tracking and licensing company. The company tracks original content using encoded hidden data which sends back to the registry information on where the content is being used. This information is used by NewsRight to convert unauthorized websites, blogs and newsgathering services into paying customers. The company does not own the copyrights to the content; its role is limited to brokering business relationships and contracts.\n\nNewsRight was launched on January 5, 2012 as a partnership between the Associated Press and 28 other news organizations. David Westin, former head of ABC News, was named its first CEO. The AP began their own tracking technology in October 2010—known as News Registry—to help publishers track and license their content online. News Registry was spun off as the News Licensing Group (NLG) in July 2011 before being launched in its current form in January 2012. As of January 2012, negotiations are ongoing to bring aboard Gannett Company, Tribune Company, Cox Enterprises and News Corporation as participants.\n\nThe company's launch is said by analysts to be motivated by news-filtering services such as Meltwater and news aggregators such as \"The Huffington Post\". The AP has spent years fighting the free sharing of content online which has disrupted its traditional role as a newswire.\n\n"}
{"id": "53226889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53226889", "title": "Planning permission", "text": "Planning permission\n\nPlanning permission or developmental approval refers to the approval needed for construction or expansion (including significant renovation) in some jurisdictions. It is usually given in the form of a building permit (or construction permit). Generally, the new construction must be inspected during construction and after completion to ensure compliance with national, regional, and local building codes. Planning is also dependent on the site's zone – for example, one cannot obtain permission to build a nightclub in an area where it is inappropriate such as a high-density suburb. Failure to obtain a permit can result in fines, penalties, and demolition of unauthorized construction if it cannot be made to meet code. House building permits, for example, are subject to local housing statutes. The criteria for planning permission are a part of urban planning and construction law, and are usually managed by town planners employed by local governments. Since building permits usually precede outlays for construction, employment, financing and furnishings, they are often used as a leading indicator for developments in other areas of the economy.\n\nAs part of broadcast law, the term is also used in broadcasting, where individual radio and television stations typically must apply for and receive permission to construct radio towers and radio antennas. This type of permit is issued by a national broadcasting authority, but does \"not\" imply zoning any other permission that must be given by local government. The permit itself also does not necessarily imply permission to operate the station once constructed. In the U.S., a construction permit is valid for three years. Afterwards, the station must receive a full license to operate, which is good for seven years. This is provided by a separate broadcast license, also called a \"license to cover\" by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the United States. Further permission or registration for towers may be needed from aviation authorities.\n\nIn the U.S., construction permits for commercial stations are now assigned by auction, rather than the former process of determining who would serve the community of license best. If the given frequency allocation is sought by at least one non-commercial educational (NCE) applicant, or is on an NCE-reserved TV channel or in the FM reserved band, the comparative process still takes place, though the FCC refuses to consider which radio format the applicants propose.\n\nIn Canada, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission maintains a comparative process in issuing permits, ensuring that a variety of programming is available in each area, and that as many groups as possible have access to free speech over radio waves.\n"}
{"id": "5222720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5222720", "title": "Privacy law", "text": "Privacy law\n\nPrivacy law refers to the laws that deal with the regulating, storing, and using of personally identifiable information of individuals, which can be collected by governments, public or private organizations, or other individuals.\n\nPrivacy laws are considered within the context of an individual's privacy rights or within reasonable expectation of privacy.\n\nPrivacy laws can be broadly classified into:\n\nAPEC created a voluntary Privacy Framework that was adopted by all 21 member economies in 2004 in an attempt to improve general information privacy and the cross-border transfer of information. The Framework consists of nine Privacy Principles that act as minimum standards for privacy protection: Preventing harm, Notice, Collection limitation, Use of personal information, Choice, Integrity of personal information, Security safeguards, Access and correction, and Accountability.\n\nIn 2011, APEC implemented the APEC Cross Border Privacy Rules System with the goal of balancing \"the flow of information and data across borders ... essential to trust and confidence in the online marketplace.\" The four agreed-upon rules of the System are based upon the APEC Privacy Framework and include self-assessment, compliance review, recognition/acceptance, and dispute resolution and enforcement.\n\nArticle 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which was drafted and adopted by the Council of Europe in 1950 and currently covers the whole European continent except for Belarus and Kosovo, protects the right to respect for private life: \"Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence.\" Through the huge case-law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, privacy has been defined and its protection has been established as a positive right of everyone.\n\nThe Council of Europe also addressed privacy protection in regards to the Internet in 1998 when it published \"Draft Guidelines for the protection of individuals with regard to the collection and processing of personal data on the information highway, which may be incorporated in or annexed to Code of Conduct.\" The Council developed these guidelines in conjunction with the European Commission, and they were adopted in 1999.\n\nThe 1995 Data Protection Directive (officially Directive 95/46/EC) recognized the authority of National data protection authorities and required that all Member States adhere to universal privacy protection standards. Member States must adopt strict privacy laws that are no more relaxed than the framework provided by the directive. Additionally, the Directive outlines that non-EU countries must adopt privacy legislation of equal restriction in order to be allowed to exchange personal data with EU countries. Furthermore, companies in non-EU countries must also adopt privacy standards of at least equal restriction as provided in the Directive in order to do business with companies located in EU countries. Thus, the Directive has also influenced the development of privacy legislation in non-European countries. The proposed ePrivacy Regulation, which would replace the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive 2002, also contributes to EU privacy regulations.\n\nThe General Data Protection Regulation will replace the Data Protection Directive of 1995 when it takes effect on 25 May 2018. A notable contribution that will come from the General Data Protection Regulation is its recognition of a \"right to be forgotten\", which requires any group that collects data on individuals to delete the data related to an individual upon that individual's request. The Regulation was influenced by the aforementioned European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nIn 1980, the OECD adopted the voluntary OECD Guidelines Governing the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows of Personal Data in response to growing concerns about information privacy and data protection in an increasingly technological and connected world. The OECD Guidelines helped establish an international standard for privacy legislation by defining the term \"personal data\" and outlining fair information practice principles (FIPPs) that other countries have adopted in their national privacy legislation.\n\nIn 2007, the OECD adopted the Recommendation on Cross-border Co-operation in the Enforcement of Laws Protecting Privacy. This framework is based on the OECD Guidelines and includes two cooperation based model forms to encourage the enforcement of privacy laws among member states. The Recommendation is also notable for coining the term \"Privacy Enforcement Authority.\"\n\nArticle 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of the United Nations of 1966 also protects privacy: \"No one shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to unlawful attacks on his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.\"\n\nOn 18 December 2013, the United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution 68/167 on the right to privacy in the digital age. The resolution makes reference to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and reaffirms the fundamental and protected human right of privacy.\n\nFor a comprehensive global summary of data privacy laws (2017), click here to access Greenleaf's article documenting the change of privacy regulations throughout the international landscape.\n\nThe current state of privacy law in Australia includes Federal and state information privacy legislation, some sector-specific privacy legislation at state level, regulation of the media and some criminal sanctions. The current position concerning civil causes of action for invasion of privacy is unclear: some courts have indicated that a tort of invasion of privacy may exist in Australia. However this has not been upheld by the higher courts, which have been content to develop the equitable doctrine of Breach of Confidence to protect privacy, following the example set by the UK. In 2008, the Australian Law Reform Commission recommended the enactment of a statutory cause of action for invasion of privacy.\n\nThe Bahamas has an official data protection law that protects the personal information of its citizens in both the private and public sector: Data Protection Act 2003 (the Bahamas Law). The Bahamas Law appoints a data protection commissioner to the Office of Data Protection to ensure that data protection is being held. Even though there is legislation enforced in the Bahamas through the Data Protection Act 2003, the act lacks many enforcements since a data protection officer doesn't need to be in office nor does any group or organization need to notify the Office of Data Protection when a hacker has breached privacy law. Also, there are no requirements for registering databases or restricting data flow across national borders. Therefore, the legislation does not meet European Union standards, which was the goal of creating the law in the first place. \n\nThe Bahamas is also a member of CARICOM, the Caribbean Community.\n\nBelize is currently part of the minority of countries that do not have any official data privacy laws. However, the Freedom of Information Act (2000) currently protects the personal information of the citizens of Belize, but there is no current documentation that distinguishes if this act includes electronic data.\n\nAs a consequence of the lack of official data privacy laws, there was a breach of personal data in 2009 when an employee's laptop from Belize's Vital Statistics Unit was stolen, containing birth certification information for all citizens residing in Belize. Even though the robbery was not intentionally targeting the laptop - the robber did not predict the severity of the theft - Belize was put in a vulnerable position which could have been avoided if regulations were in order.\n\nA Brazilian citizen's privacy is protected by the country's constitution, which states:\n\nIn August 14th, 2018 Brazil enacted a full-fledged data protection bill. The bill has 65 articles and has many similarities to the GDPR. The first translation into English of the new data protection law was published by Ronaldo Lemos, a Brazilian lawyer specialized in technology, on that same date.\n\nIn Canada, the federal \"Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act\" (PIPEDA) governs the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information in connection with commercial activities and personal information about employees of federal works, undertakings and businesses. It generally does not apply to non-commercial organizations or provincial governments. Personal information collected, used and disclosed by the federal government and many crown corporations is governed by the \"Privacy Act\". Many provinces have enacted similar provincial legislation such as the Ontario \"Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act\" which applies to public bodies in that province.\n\nThere remains some debate whether there exists a common law tort for breach of privacy. There have been a number of cases identifying a common law right to privacy but the requirements have not been articulated.\n\nIn \"Eastmond v. Canadian Pacific Railway & Privacy Commissioner of Canada\" Canada's Supreme Court found that CP could collect Eastmond's personal information without his knowledge or consent because it benefited from the exemption in paragraph 7(1)(b) of PIPEDA, which provides that personal information can be collected without consent if \"it is reasonable to expect that the collection with the knowledge or consent of the individual would compromise the availability or the accuracy of the information and the collection is reasonable for purposes related to investigating a breach of an agreement\".\n\nComputer Processed Personal Information Protection Act was enacted in 1995 in order to protect personal information processed by computers. The general provision specified the purpose of the law, defined crucial terms, prohibited individuals from waiving certain rights.\n\nAn archipelago located in the Pacific, the country of Fiji was founded on the tenth of October 1970. In its constitution, the people inhabiting the land are granted the right to privacy. The exact workings from the constitution is the following: \"Every person has the right to personal privacy, which includes the right to — (a) confidentiality of their personal information; (b) confidentiality of their communications; and (c) respect for their private and family life\". But in this very same constitution, it is expressed that it is possible \"to the extent that it is necessary\" for a law to be passed that limits or impacts the execution of the right to privacy law. Another privacy related law can be seen in section 54 of the Telecommunications Promulgation passed in 2008, which states that \"any service provider supplying telecommunications to consumers must keep information about consumers confidential\". Billing information and call information are no exceptions. The only exception to this rule is for the purpose of bringing to light \"fraud or bad debt\". Under this law, even with the consent of the customer, the disclosure of information is not permitted. Other Privacy laws that have been adopted by this country are those that are meant to protect the collected information, cookies and other privacy-related matter of tourist. This is in regards to (but not limited to) information collected during bookings, the use of one technology of another that belongs to said company or through the use of a service of the company, or when making payments. Additionally, as a member of the United Nations, the Fiji is bound by the universal declaration of Human Rights which states in article two \"No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks\".\n\nFrance adopted a data privacy law in 1978. It applies to public and private organizations and forbids gathering sensitive data about physical persons (sexuality, ethnic, political or religious opinions ...). The law is administered by the Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés (CNIL), a dedicated national administration.\n\nGermany is known to be one of the first countries (in 1970) with the strictest and most detailed data privacy laws in the world. The citizens' right to protection is stated in the Constitution of Germany, in Art. 2 para. 1, and Art. 1 para. 1. The citizens' data of Germany is mainly protected under the Federal Data Protection Act (1977) from corporations, which has been amended the most recently in 2009. This act specifically targets all businesses that collect information for its use. The major regulation protects the data within the private and personal sector, and as a member of the European Union (EU), Germany has additionally ratified its act, convention, and additional protocol with the EU according to the EU Data Protection Directive 95/46 EC.\n\nIn Germany, there are two kinds of restrictions on a transfer of personal data. Since Germany is part of the EU Member States, the transfer of personal data of its citizens to a nation outside the EEA is always subject to a decent level of data protection in the offshore country. Secondly, according to German data policy rules, any transfer of personal data outside the EEA symbolizes a connection to a third party which requires a reason. That reason may be for emergency reasons and a provision must be met with consent by the receiver and the subject of the data. Keep in mind that in Germany, data transfers within a group of companies are subject to same treatment as transfer to third-parties if the location is outside the EEA.\n\nSpecifically the Federal Data Protection Commission is in charge of regulating the entirety of the enforcement of data privacy regulations for Germany. In addition, Germany is part of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The Federal Data Protection Commission of Ireland is a member of the International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners, European Data Protection Authorities, the EU Article 29 Working Party, and the Global Privacy Enforcement Network.\n\nRegarding the protection of children, Germany is potentially the first nation that has played an active role in banning the share of data within toys connected to Wifi and the Internet, like for instance, \"My Friend Cayla\". The group in charge of protecting the data of children is the Federal Network Agency (the Bundessnetzagentur). \n\nDuring the military dictatorship era the 57 AK law prohibited taking photos of people without their permission but the law has since been superseded. The 2472/1997 law protects personal data of citizens but consent for taking photos of people is not required as long as they aren't used commercially or are used only for personal archiving (\"οικιακή χρήση\" / \"home use\"), for publication in editorial, educational, cultural, scientific or news publications, and for fine art purposes (e.g. street photography which has been uphold as legal by the courts whether done by professional or amateur photographers). However, photographing people or collecting their personal data for commercial (advertising) purposes requires their consent. The law gives photographers the right to commercially use photos of people who have not consented to the use of the images in which they appear if the depicted people have either been paid for the photo session as models (so there is no separation between editorial and commercial models in Greek law) or they have paid the photographer for obtaining the photo (this, for example, gives the right to wedding photographers to advertise their work using their photos of newly-wed couples they photographed in a professional capacity). In Greece the right to take photographs and publish them or sell licensing rights over them as fine art or editorial content is protected by the Constitution of Greece (Article 14 and other articles) and free speech laws as well as by case law and legal cases. Photographing the police or children and publishing the photographs in a non-commercial capacity is also legal.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the law governing the protection of personal data is principally found in the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486) which came into force on 20 December 1996. Various amendments were made to enhance the protection of personal data privacy of individuals through the Personal Data (Privacy) (Amendment) Ordinance 2012. Examples of personal data protected include names, phone numbers, addresses, identity card numbers, photos, medical records and employment records. As Hong Kong remains a common law jurisdiction, judicial cases are also a source of privacy law. The power of enforcement is vested with the Privacy Commissioner (the \"Commissioner\") for Personal Data. Non-compliance with data protection principles set out in the ordinances does not constitute a criminal offense directly. The Commissioner may serve an enforcement notice to direct the data user to remedy the contravention and/or instigate the prosecution action. Contravention of an enforcement notice may result in a fine and imprisonment.\n\nThe Right to Privacy is a fundamental right and an intrinsic part of Article 21 that protects life and liberty of the citizens and as a part of the freedoms guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution. In June 2011, India passed a new privacy package that included various new rules that apply to companies and consumers. A key aspect of the new rules requires that any organization that processes personal information must obtain written consent from the data subjects before undertaking certain activities. Application of the rule is still uncertain. The Aadhar Card privacy issue became controversial when the case reached the Supreme Court.. The hearing in the Aadhaar case went on for 38 days across 4 months making it second longest SC hearing after the landmark Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala.\n\nOn August 24, 2017, a nine-judge bench of Supreme Court in Justice K. S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) and Anr. vs Union Of India And Ors. unanimously held that the right to privacy is an intrinsic part of right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution.\n\nPreviously, the Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008 made changes to the Information Technology Act, 2000 and added the following two sections relating to Privacy:\n\nThe island of Ireland is under the Data Protection Act 1988 and amended by the Data Protection Act 2003 along with the EU Data Protection Directive 95/46 EC, which regulates the utilization of personal data. Data Protection Act 1988 along with 2003 is known as the DPA and protects data within the private and personal sector. The DPA ensures that when data is transported, the location must be safe and in acknowledgement of the legislation to maintain data privacyWhen collecting and processing data, some of the requirements are listed below:\nSpecifically the Data Protection Commissioner oversees the entirety of the enforcement of data privacy regulations for Ireland. All persons that collect and process data must register with the Data Protection Commissioner unless they are exempt (non-profit organizations etc.) and renew their registration annually.\n\nConsidering the protection of internet property and online data, the ePrivacy Regulations 2011 protects the communications and higher-advanced technical property and data such as social media and the telephone.\n\nIn relation to international data privacy law that Ireland is involved in, the British-Irish Agreement Act 1999 Section 51 extensively states the relationship between data security between the United Kingdom and Ireland.\n\nIn addition, Ireland is part of the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.\n\nThe Data Protection Commissioner of Ireland is a member of the International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners, European Data Protection Authorities, the EU Article 29 Working Party, Global Privacy Enforcement Network, and the British, Irish, and Islands Data Protection Authorities.\n\nIreland is also the main international location for social media platforms, specifically LinkedIn and Twitter, for data collection and control for any data processed outside the United States.\n\nThe Jamaican constitution grants its people the right to \"respect for and protection of private and\nfamily life, and privacy of the home\". Although the government grants its citizens the right to privacy, the protection of this right is not strong. But in regards to other privacy laws that has been adopted in the country of Jamaica, the closest one is the Private Security Regulation Authority Act. This act passed in the year 1992, established the Private Security Regulation Authority. This organization is tasked with the responsibility of regulating the private security business and ensuring that everyone working as a private security guard is trained and certified. The goal of this is to ensure a safer home, community, and businesses. One of the reasons as to why this law was passed is that as trained workers, the guards could ensure maximum Customer service and also with the education they received they would be equipped how best to deal with certain situations as well as avoid actions can that could be considered violations, such as invasion of privacy. Additionally, as a member of the United Nations, the Jamaica is bound by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which states in article two \"No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks\".\n\nThe Act on the Protection of Personal Information was fully enacted in 2005 to protect the rights and interests of individuals while taking consideration of the usefulness of personal information. The law applies to business operators that hold the personal information of 5,000 or more individuals.\n\nKenya at the moment does not have a strong general privacy protection law for its constituents. But in chapter 4 — The Bill of Rights and in the second part which is titled \"Rights and Fundamental Freedoms,\" of the consitiution privacy is allocated its own section. There we see that the Kenyan government express that all its people have the right to privacy, \"... which includes the right not to have — (a) their person, home or property searched; (b) their possessions seized; (c) information relating to their family or private affairs unnecessarily required or revealed, or (d) the privacy of their communications infringed\". Now with that said, though this country grants its people the right to privacy, there seems to be no document out there that protect these specific privacy laws privacy laws. Regarding privacy laws relating to data privacy, like many African countries as expressed by Alex Boniface Makulilo, Kenya's privacy laws are far from the European 'adequacy' standard\". Kenya is making progress. As of today, the country does have laws that focus on specific sectors. The following are the sectors: communication and information. The law pertaining to this is called the Kenya Information and Communication Act. This Act makes it illegal for any licensed telecommunication operators to disclose or intercept information that is able to get access through the customer's use of the service. This law also grants privacy protection in the course of making use of the service provided by said company. And if the information of the customer is going to be provided to any third party it is mandatory that the customer is made aware of such an exchange and that some form of agreement is reached, even if the person is a family member. This act also goes as far as protecting data for Kenyans especially for the use of fraud and other ill manners. Additionally, as a member of the United Nations, Kenya is bound by the universal declaration of Human Rights which states in article two \"No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks\".\n\nAfter their independence from Great Britain in 1957, Malaysia's existing legal system was based primarily on English common law. The following common law torts are related to personal information privacy and continue to play a role in Malaysia's legal system: breach of confidence, defamation, malicious falsehood, and negligence. In recent years, however, the Court of Appeal in Malaysia has referred less to English common law and instead looked more toward other nations with similar colonial histories and whose written constitutions are more like the Malaysian Constitution. Unlike the courts in these other nations, such as India's Supreme Court, the Malaysian Court of Appeal has not yet recognized a constitutionally protected right to privacy.\n\nIn June 2010, the Malaysian Parliament passed the Personal Data Protection Act 2010, and it came into effect in 2013. It outlines seven Personal Data Protection Principles that entities operating in Malaysia must adhere to: the General Principle, the Notice and Choice Principle, the Disclosure Principle, the Security Principle, the Retention Principle, the Data Integrity Principle, and the Access Principle. The Act defines personal data as \"'information in respect of commercial transactions that relates directly or indirectly to the data subject, who is identified or identifiable from that information or from that and other information.\"\n\nA notable contribution to general privacy law is the Act's distinction between personal data and sensitive personal data, which entails different protections. Personal data includes \"information in respect of commercial transactions ... that relates directly or indirectly to a data subject\" while sensitive personal data includes any \"personal data consisting of information as to the physical or mental health or condition of a data subject, his political opinions, his religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar nature.\" Although the Act does not apply to information processed outside the country, it does restrict cross-border transfers of data from Malaysia outwards. Additionally, the Act offers individuals the \"right to access and correct the personal data held by data users\", \"the right to withdraw consent to the processing of personal data\", and \"the right to prevent data users from processing personal data for the purpose of direct marketing.\" Punishment for violating the Personal Data Protection Act can include fines or even imprisonment.\n\nOther common law and business sector-specific laws that exist in Malaysia to indirectly protect confidential information include:\n\nOn 5 July 2010, Mexico enacted a new privacy package focused on treatment of personal data by private entities. The key elements included were:\n\nIn New Zealand, the Privacy Act 1993 sets out principles in relation to the collection, use, disclosure, security and access to personal information.\n\nThe introduction into the New Zealand common law of a tort covering invasion of personal privacy at least by public disclosure of private facts was at issue in \"Hosking v Runting\" and was accepted by the Court of Appeal. In \"Rogers v TVNZ Ltd\" the Supreme Court indicated it had some misgivings with how the tort was introduced, but chose not to interfere with it at that stage.\n\nComplaints about privacy are considered by the \"Privacy Commissioner\"\n\nFederal Republic of Nigeria's constitution offers its constituents the right to privacy as well as privacy protection. The following can be found in the constitution pertaining to this: \"The privacy of citizens, their homes, correspondence, telephone conversations and telegraphic communications is hereby guaranteed and protected\". Additionally, as a member of the United Nations, Nigeria is bound by the universal declaration of Human Rights which states in article twelve \"No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks\". Nigeria is one of the few African countries that is building on the privacy laws. This is evident in the fact that Nine years later in the year 2008, the Cybersecurity and Information Protection Agency Bill was passed. This bill is responsible for the creation of the Cybersecurity and Information Protection Agency. This agency is tasked with the job of preventing cyberattacks and regulating the Nigerian information technology industry. Additional laws have been passed that are meant to prevent the disclosure of information without permission and the intercepting of some form of transaction with or without evil intent.\n\nIn Article III, Section 3, paragraph 1 of the 1987 Constitution of the Philippines lets its audience know that \"The privacy of communication and correspondence shall be inviolable except upon lawful order of the court, or when public safety or order requires otherwise as prescribed by law\". Not only does this country grant the Filipinos the right to privacy, but it also protects its people's right to privacy by attaching consequences to the violation of it thereof. In the year 2012, the Philippines passed the Republic Act No. 10173, also known as the \"Data Privacy Act of 2012\". This act extended privacy regulations and laws to apply to more than just individual industries. This act also offered protection of data belonging to the people regardless of where it is stored, be it in private spheres or not. In that very same year, the cybercrime prevention law was passed. This law was \"intended to protect and safeguard the integrity of computer and communications systems\" and prevent them from being misused. Not only does the Philippines have these laws, but it has also set aside agents that are tasked with regulating these privacy rules and due ensure the punishment of the violators. Additionally, with the constitution, previous laws that have been passed but that are in violation of the laws above have been said to be void and nullified. Another way this country has shown their dedication in executing this law is extending it to the government sphere as well. Additionally, as a member of the United Nations, the Philippines is bound by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which states in article two \"No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks\".\n\nApplicable legislation:\n\nAs a general rule, consent of the individual is required for processing, i.e. obtaining, organizing, accumulating, holding, adjusting (updating, modifying), using, disclosing (including transfer), impersonating, blocking or destroying of his personal data. This rule doesn't apply where such processing is necessary for performance of the contract, to which an individual is a party.\n\nSingapore, like other Commonwealth jurisdictions, relies primarily on common law, and the law of confidence is employed for privacy protection cases. For example, privacy can be protected indirectly through various common law torts: defamation, trespass, nuisance, negligence, and breach of confidence. In February 2002, however, the Singaporean government decided that the common law approach was inadequate for their emerging globalized technological economy. Thus, the National Internet Advisory Committee published the Model Data Protection Code for the Private Sector, which set standards for personal data protection and was influenced by the EU Data Protection Directive and the OECD Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy. In the private sector, businesses can still choose to adopt the Model Code, but in 2005 Parliament decided that Singapore needed a more comprehensive legislative privacy framework.\n\nIn January 2013, Singapore's Personal Data Protection Act 2012 came into effect in three separate but related phases. The phases continued through July 2014 and dealt with the creation of the Personal Data Protection Commission, the national Do Not Call Registry, and general data protection Rules. The Act's general purpose \"is to govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal data by organisations\" while acknowledging the individual's right to control their personal data and the organizations' legal needs to collect this data. It imposes eight obligations on those organizations that use personal data: consent, purpose limitation, notification, access, correction, accuracy, protection/security, and retention. The Act prohibits transfer of personal data to countries with privacy protection standards that are lower than those outlined in the general data protection rules. The Personal Data Protection Commission is responsible for enforcing the Act, which is based primarily on a complaints-based system. The punishments for violating the Act can include being ordered by the Commission to stop collecting and using personal data, to destroy the data, or to pay a penalty of up to $1 million.\n\nSingapore has also passed various sector-specific statutes that more indirectly deal with privacy and personal information, including:\n\nThere are also more specific acts for electronically stored information:\n\nThe Constitution of South Africa guarantees the most general right to privacy for all its citizens. This provides the main protection for personal data privacy so far.\n\nThe Protection of Personal Act 2013 (POPI) was signed into act, focusing on data privacy and is inspired by other foreign national treaties like the United Kingdom. Minimum requirements are presented in POPI for the act of processing personal data, like the fact that the data subject must provide consent and that the data will be beneficial, and POPI will be harsher when related to cross-border international data transfers, specifically with personal information. However, POPI won't be in full effective until an estimated date of 2018 as it is still being deliberated by the National Council of Provinces.\n\nThe recording of conversations over phone and internet is not allowed without the permission of both parties with the Regulation of Interception of Communications and Provision of Communications Related Act (2002).\n\nIn addition, South Africa is part of the Southern African Development Community and the African Union.\n\nThe Data Act is the world's first national data protection law and was enacted in Sweden on 11 May 1973. The law was then superseded on 24 October 1998 by the Personal Data Act (Sw. \"Personuppgiftslagen\") that implemented the 1995 EU Data Protection Directive.\n\nThe main legislation over personal data privacy for the personal and private sector in Switzerland is the Swiss Federal Protection Act, specifically the Data Protection Act, a specific section under the Swiss Federal Protection Act. The Data Protection Act has been enacted since 1992 and is in charge of measuring the consent of sharing of personal data, along with other legislation like the Telecommunication Act and the Unfair Competition Act. The Act generally guides on how to collect, process, store, data, use, disclose, and destruct data. The Data Inspection Board is in charge of overseeing data breaches and privacy enforcement.\n\nPersonal data must be protected against illegal use by \"being processed in good faith and must be proportionate\". Also, the reason for the transfer of personal data must be known by the time of data transfer. Data not associated with people (not personal data) is not protected by the Data Protection Act.\n\nIn the case of data transfer to unsafe data protection countries, these are the major regulations required by the Data Protection Act:\n\nSwitzerland is a white-listed country, meaning that it is a nation that has proper levels of data protection under the surveillance by the European Commission (EU Commission). Switzerland is not under the EU Data Protection Directive 95/46 EC. However, the data protection regulations are sufficient enough under European Union (EU) regulations without being a member of the EU.\n\nIn addition, Switzerland is part of the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.\n\nThe Data Inspection Board of Switzerland is a member of the International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners, European Data Protection Authorities, the EU Article 29 Working Party, and the Nordic Data Protection Authorities.\n\nThe right to privacy is not explicitly mentioned in the Republic of China Constitution, but it can be protected indirectly through judicial interpretation. For example, article 12 of the Constitution states \"the people shall have freedom of confidentiality of correspondence\" while article 10 states \"the people shall have freedom of residence and of change of residence.\" Along with several other articles that assert the Constitution's protection of freedoms and rights of the people, the Grand Justices are able to decide how privacy protection fits into the legal system. The Justices first made reference to privacy being a protected right in the 1992 \"Interpretation of Council of Grand Justices No. 293 on Disputes Concerning Debtors' Rights,\" but it was not directly or explicitly declared to be a right.\n\nIn 1995, Taiwan passed the Computer-Processed Personal Data Protection Act which was influenced by the OECD Guidelines and enforced by each separate Ministry depending on their industry sector responsibility. It only protected personal information managed by government agencies and certain industries. In 2010, Taiwan enacted the Personal Data Protection Act that laid out more comprehensive guidelines for the public and private sectors and was still enforced by individual Ministries. In the 2010 Act, personal data is protected and defined as any \"data which is sufficient to, directly or indirectly, identify that person\", and includes data such as name, date of birth, fingerprints, occupation, medical records, and financial status, among many others.\n\nA few other administrative laws also deal with communication-specific personal privacy protection:\n\nAdditionally, chapter 28 of the Criminal Code outlines punishments for privacy violations in article 315, sections 315-1 and 315-2. The sections primarily address issues of search and seizure and criminal punishment for wrongful invasion of privacy.\n\nFinally, articles 18(I),184(I), and 195(I) of the Taiwanese address the \"personality right\" to privacy and the right to compensation when one injures the \"rights\" of another, such as when someone uses another's name illegally.\n\nThailand's unique history of being an authoritarian buffer state during the Cold War and being under the constant threat of a coup d'état means that privacy laws have so far been limited in order to preserve national security and public safety. Thailand uses bureaucratic surveillance to maintain national security and public safety, which explains the 1991 Civil Registration Act that was passed to protect personal data in computerized record-keeping and data-processing done by the government.\n\nThe legislature passed the Official Information Act 1997 to provide basic data protection by limiting personal data collection and retention in the public sector. It defines personal information in a national context in relation to state agencies. Two communication technology related laws, the Electronic Transactions Act 2001 and the Computer Crime Act 2007, provide some data privacy protection and enforcement mechanisms. Nevertheless, Thailand still lacks legislation that explicitly addresses privacy security.\n\nThus, with the need for a more general and all-encompassing data protection law, the legislature proposed the Personal Data Protection Bill in 2013, which is heavily influenced by the OECD Guidelines and the EU Directive. The draft law is still under evaluation and its enactment date is not yet finalized.\n\nAs a member of the European Convention on Human Rights, the United Kingdom adheres to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees a \"right to respect for privacy and family life\" from state parties, subject to restrictions as prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society towards a legitimate aim.\n\nHowever, there is no independent tort law doctrine which recognises a right to privacy. This has been confirmed on a number of occasions.\n\nThe right to privacy is not explicitly stated anywhere in the Bill of Rights.\nThe idea of a right to privacy was first addressed within a legal context in the United States. Louis Brandeis (later a Supreme Court justice) and another young lawyer, Samuel D. Warren, published an article called \"The Right to Privacy\" in the \"Harvard Law Review\" in 1890 arguing that the United States Constitution and common law allowed for the deduction of a general \"right to privacy\".\n\nTheir project was never entirely successful, and the renowned tort expert and Dean of the College of Law at University of California, Berkeley, William Lloyd Prosser argued that \"privacy\" was composed of four separate torts, the only unifying element of which was a (vague) \"right to be left alone\". The four torts were:\nOne of the central privacy policies concerning minors is the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which requires children under the age of thirteen to gain parental consent before putting any personal information online.\n\nFor additional information on Privacy laws in the United States, see:\n\nThough the right to privacy exists in several regulations, the most effective privacy protections come in the form of constitutional articles of Uzbekistan. Varying aspects of the right to privacy are protected in different ways by different situations.\n\nVietnam, lacking a general data protection law, relies on Civil Code regulations relating to personal data protection. Specifically, the Code \"protects information relating to the private life of a person.\" The 2006 Law on Information Technology protects personal information, such as name, profession, phone number, and email address, and declares that organizations may only use this information for a \"proper purpose\". The legislation, however, does not define what qualifies as proper. The 2005 Law on Electronic Transactions protects personal information during electronic transactions by prohibiting organizations and individuals from disclosing \"part or all of information related to private and personal affairs ... without prior agreement.\" The 2010 Law on Protection of Consumers' Rights provides further protection for consumer information, but it does not define the scope of that information or create a data protection authority; additionally, it is only applicable in the private sector.\n\nIn 2015, the Vietnam legislature introduced the Law on Information Security, which ensures better information safety and protection online and in user's computer software. It took effect on 1 July 2016 and is Vietnam's first overarching data protection legislation.\n\n\"Source\"\n\n"}
{"id": "32459032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32459032", "title": "Shell bill", "text": "Shell bill\n\nA shell bill is a legislative bill, typically with no substantive provisions, that is introduced for purposes of later being amended to include the actual legislative proposals advanced by the introducer. This device is used for a number or purposes, such as conforming to the rules adopted by a legislative body as to timely introduction of legislation or abiding by constitutional procedural requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "17245641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17245641", "title": "Social Democratic Union of Workers and Smallholders", "text": "Social Democratic Union of Workers and Smallholders\n\nSocial Democratic Union of Workers and Smallholders (, TPSL) was a political party in Finland. TPSL originated as a fraction of the Social Democratic Party of Finland, headed by Emil Skog and Aarre Simonen. Skog was the former chairman of SDP and was in dispute with the incumbent chairman, Väinö Leskinen. The party was founded in 1959, had seats in the parliament in 1959–1970 and was dissolved in 1973. It was generally identified as being politically between SDP and SKDL (a Communist-dominated organization).\nThe fraction split from SDP in 1959 after few years of infighting, and retained SDP's party platform until 1967, opining that SDP didn't follow its own platform. The main cause for the rift was that SDP's party leadership, particularly Väinö Tanner and Väinö Leskinen wanted to develop the party towards a \"general party\" appealing to the entire public. TPSL in contrast, as the name suggests, wanted SDP to be a special interest party for the workers and small farmers. Leskinen wanted to co-operate with the right wing, based SDP politics on the general population, and his economic policy was conservative and deflatory, and he criticised agricultural subsidies. In contrast, Skog's fraction wanted to co-operate with the agrarians and other leftists in popular front governments (\"kansanrintamahallitus\"), and base their politics exclusively on the trade unions. For example, Heikki Laavola has written that the disagreement was not over left vs. right ideology; all of Tanner, Leskinen, Skog and Simonen had been formerly active in anti-Communist pursuits. Disagreements between and about individuals played a role; Tanner had actually been convicted (under Soviet pressure) for being responsible to the Continuation War, and as such, he being the leader of SDP was a problem to the Soviets.\n\nThe rift was accompanied by a division in associated societies and the trade unions. The main trade union, Central Organisation of Finnish Trade Unions, was controlled mostly by Skog's men, as was the youth league, sports federation and women's league. The first example was that SDP's leadership wanted the worker's sports federation to associate with the right-wing sports federation in order to qualify for entry to Olympics, which Skog's fraction disputed as bourgeoise.\n\nTPSL had 13-15 representatives of 200 in the parliament after the split in 1959, gained only two in 1962 elections, got seven representatives in 1966 and permanently dropped out of the parliament in 1970. Significantly, TPSL co-operated with the especially powerful President Urho Kekkonen, and was a partner in coalition cabinets (Karjalainen I, Paasio I, Koivisto I). In 1963, SDP changed its policy such that good relations with Kekkonen and Soviet Union were a new priority, thus removing a significant cause for disagreement. Skog himself returned to SDP in 1965. TPSL radicalized and became more Soviet-friendly, but lost its popular support, and was dissolved in 1973. The decision was made in December 1972 as TPSL board voted 10–3 for the return to the SDP. A minority faction, including Simonen and some other former MPs, formed the Socialist Workers Party.\n"}
{"id": "14964788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14964788", "title": "Soering v United Kingdom", "text": "Soering v United Kingdom\n\nSoering v United Kingdom 161 Eur. Ct. H.R. (ser. A) (1989) is a landmark judgment of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) which established that extradition of a young German national to the United States to face charges of capital murder violated Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) guaranteeing the right against inhuman and degrading treatment.\n\nThe applicant, Jens Soering, is a German national, born in 1966, who was brought by his parents to the United States at 11. In 1984, he was an 18-year-old honour student at the University of Virginia, where he became good friends with Elizabeth Haysom, a Canadian national two years his elder.\n\nHaysom's parents, William Reginald Haysom and Nancy Astor Haysom, lived 65 miles from the university, in Boonsboro (a suburb of Lynchburg). According to the account provided later to local police, Soering and Elizabeth Haysom decided to kill Haysom's parents; and, to divert suspicion, they rented a car in Charlottesville and drove to Washington D.C. On 30 March 1985, Soering drove to the Haysom residence and dined with the unsuspecting couple. During or after dinner, he picked a quarrel and viciously attacked them with a knife. Both were found with their throats slit and with stab and slash wounds to the neck and body.\n\nIn October 1985, Soering and Elizabeth Haysom fled to Europe; and, on 30 April 1986, they were arrested in England, United Kingdom on charges of cheque fraud. Six weeks later, a grand jury of the Circuit Court of Bedford County, Virginia, indicted Soering with the capital murder of the Haysoms, as well as their separate non-capital murders. On 11 August 1986, the United States requested extradition for the pair, based on the 1972 extradition treaty. A warrant was issued under section 8 of the Extradition Act 1870 for the arrest of Soering, and he was committed to await the Home Secretary's order to extradite him to the United States.\n\nSoering filed a petition for \"habeas corpus\" with the Divisional Court and requested permission for judicial review of the decision to commit him, arguing that the Extradition Act 1870 did not authorise extradition for a capital charge. He also cited article IV of the US-UK extradition treaty, which provides that an extradition request for an offence carrying the death penalty can be refused if the requesting country has not given \"assurances [...] that the death penalty will not be carried out\". No specific assurance was given by the United States, or the State of Virginia, that prosecutors would not seek the death penalty or that Soering would not be executed. The UK government received only an undertaking from the Commonwealth Attorney of Bedford County to the effect that:-\n\nSoering contended that this assurance was worthless. The Virginia authorities later communicated to the UK government that they would not offer further assurances, as they intended to seek the death penalty against Soering.\n\nOn 11 December 1987, Lord Justice Lloyd in the Divisional Court admitted that the assurance \"leaves something to be desired\" but refused the request for judicial review, stating that Soering's request was premature, as the Home Secretary had not yet accepted the assurance.\n\nSoering appealed to the Judicial Committee of the House of Lords, which rejected his claim on 30 June 1988. He, then, petitioned the Home Secretary without success, the latter authorising extradition on 3 August 1988.\n\nAnticipating this outcome, Soering had filed a claim with the European Commission of Human Rights (ECHR) on 9 July 1988, asserting that he would face inhuman and degrading treatment contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights (\"the Convention\") were he to be extradited to the USA, it being likely that the death penalty would be applied.\n\nSoering's arguments that the use by a non-Convention State of the death penalty would engage the right to life were novel, in that Article 2(1) of the Convention expressly permits the use of the death penalty, and Article 3 had never been interpreted to bring the death penalty, per se, within the prohibition of \"inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment\". The applicant, therefore, sought to make it clear that this was not the simple application of a punishment prescribed by law, but rather his exposure to the death row phenomenon, where he would be kept in detention for an unknown period, awaiting execution. The ECHR requested that no extradition take place pending the deliverance of its judgment.\n\nSoering's application was declared admissible on 10 November 1988, and the European Commission of Human Rights gave its judgment on 19 January 1989. It decided, by six votes to five, that in this particular case the extradition would not constitute inhuman or degrading treatment. It did, however, accept that the extradition of a person to a country \"where it is certain or where there is a serious risk that the person will be subjected to torture or inhuman treatment the deportation or extradition would, in itself, under such circumstances constitute inhuman treatment.\"\n\nOn 7 July 1989, the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) handed down a unanimous judgment affirming the Commission's conclusion that Article 3 could be engaged by the extradition process and that the extraditing state could be responsible for the breach where it is aware of a real risk that the person may be subject to inhuman or degrading treatment. Amnesty International intervened in the case and submitted that, in the light of \"evolving standards in Western Europe regarding the existence and use of the death penalty\", this punishment should be considered as inhuman and degrading and was therefore effectively prohibited by Article 3. This was not accepted by the ECHR, as the Convention does allow for the death penalty's use in certain circumstances. It followed that Article 3 could not stand in the way of the extradition of a suspect simply because they might be subject to the death penalty.\n\nHowever, even if the extradition itself would not constitute a breach of Article 3, such factors as the execution method, the detainee's personal circumstances, the sentence's disproportionality to the gravity of the crime, and conditions of detention could all violate Article 3. To answer this question, the Court had to determine whether there was a \"real risk\" of Soering's being executed. The Court found that \n\nDeparting from the Commission's ruling, the ECHR concluded that the \"death row phenomenon\" did breach Article 3. They highlighted four factors that contributed to the violation: \n\nAs the ECtHR concluded:\nThe UK government obtained further assurances from the US regarding the death penalty before extraditing Soering to Virginia. He was tried and convicted of the first degree murders of the Haysoms and, on 4 September 1990, sentenced to two consecutive life terms. He is serving his sentence at the Buckingham Correctional Center in Dillwyn, Virginia.\n\nElizabeth Haysom did not contest her extradition from the UK and pleaded guilty to conspiring to kill her parents. On 6 October 1987, the court sentenced her to 45-years-per-count to be served consecutively. She is serving her sentence at the Fluvanna Correctional Center for Women.\n\n\"Soering v. United Kingdom\" is important in four respects:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5108520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5108520", "title": "Supreme Administrative Court (Portugal)", "text": "Supreme Administrative Court (Portugal)\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court () is a court in Portugal that deals with matters pertaining to administrative and fiscal legal relations. This court functions without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "33831601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33831601", "title": "Tali Rights", "text": "Tali Rights\n\nTali Rights, The Collecting Society of Film and Television Creators in Israel Ltd. [Hevrat HaTamlugim shel Yotzrei HaKolnoa V'HaTelevizia B'Israel], is the copyright collecting society for Israeli screenwriters and directors.\n\nTali represents the public performance rights, rental rights, broadcasting rights and the making available to the public rights, as well as the rights to collect remuneration for the use of blank tapes, in regards to script and direction creations of its members.\n\nTALI was founded in 2000 by the community of Israeli screenwriters and directors led by the scriptwriter Avi Shemesh (C.E.O. of TALI until 2008, then chairman of the board from 2008 to 2012) and the director Ori Inbar who initiated the struggle for recognizing the director as author (chairman of the board until 2005) . The shareholders of TALI are the artists themselves, with each screenwriter and director, veteran and newcomer alike, holding an equal share.\n\nTALI manages the public performance rights, leasing rights, broadcast rights and public access rights, as well as the rights to collect blank media levies with regard to the screenplays and directed works of its members. \nTALI collects royalties for the use of its members' works within the State of Israel and distributes them among its members in accordance with a formula whose parameters are known. It has established a database about its members' works, through which it manages the reporting, the use of the works and the distribution of royalties. \nMembership in TALI does not require a membership fee; its overhead costs are deducted from the royalties paid by the users. Each TALI member has full control over the number of screenplays and/or directed works, or rights to them, that he turns over to TALI's management, and he can exclude any works or rights at any stage.\n\nTALI’s repertoire includes, among other items:\n\nTALI has licensing agreements with various users, including broadcasters, internet sites, cellular providers and other companies that use audiovisual works. In this context TALI has licensing agreements with: Channel 10, Keshet, Reshet, YES, HOT, the Israel Broadcasting Authority, Educational Television, Walla, Mako, Partner (Orange), Cellcom, Pelephone, and others\n\nTALI is headed by a 10-member board of directors. Avi Shemesh, one of the organization]s founders, is chairman of the board. The board is meant to include five screenwriters and five directors (though today it actually numbers five screenwriters and three directors).\nUnder the board is the CEO, who is responsible for implementing the policy of the board, and under the CEO there are two departments: the Membership and Documentation Department and the Finance and Disbursal Department. The company has eight employees.\n\n\nTALI represents nearly 1,500 artists who are shareholders.\nTALI manages an estimated 100,000 Israeli audiovisual works. (TALI's database currently contains only those works that were used in recent years, a total of 65,000.)\nEach year, some 11,000 works are added to TALI's repertoire.\n\nOn 13 July 2011, TALI announced that it had signed a licensing agreement with HOT that ended a years-long dispute between them. \n\n"}
{"id": "28901492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28901492", "title": "Treaty of Nürtingen", "text": "Treaty of Nürtingen\n\nThe Treaty of Nürtingen was a treaty in German history, signed on 25 January 1442. It divided the county of Württemberg between count Ludwig I and his brother count Ulrich V. The Stuttgart half went to Ulrich and included (among others) the cities of Cannstatt, Göppingen, Marbach, Neuffen, Nürtingen, Schorndorf and Waiblingen. The Urach half went to Ludwig and included (among others) the cities of Balingen, Calw, Herrenberg, Münsingen, Tuttlingen and Tübingen. It had been preceded by a division of Württemberg on different lines one year earlier for the marriage of Ulrich V to Margarethe von Cleve, intended to last four years. This division was rescinded by the Treaty of Münsingen on 14 December 1482 and reinstated by the Treaty of Esslingen in 1492.\n\n"}
{"id": "1417773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1417773", "title": "Wireless Telegraphy Acts", "text": "Wireless Telegraphy Acts\n\nWireless Telegraphy Act is (with its variations) a stock short title used for legislation in the Republic of Ireland, South Africa and the United Kingdom relating to wireless telegraphy.\n\nThe Wireless Telegraphy Acts are laws regulating radio communications in the United Kingdom.\n\nWireless telegraphy as a concept is defined in British law as \"the sending of electro-magnetic energy over paths not provided by a material substance.\"\n\nThe term telegraphy, although best known in relation to the electric telegraph, relates to the sending of messages over long-distances. Wireless telegraphy is differentiated from electrical telegraphy in that the messages are transmitted via electromagnetic means (light or radio) rather than via a physical electrical cable connection.\n\nThe current (2018) supervisor of the UK's electromagnetic spectrum is the communications regulator, Ofcom.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1301424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301424", "title": "Wood-plastic composite", "text": "Wood-plastic composite\n\nWood-plastic composites (WPCs) are composite materials made of wood fiber/wood flour and thermoplastic(s) (includes PE, PP, PVC, PLA etc.).\n\nIn addition to wood fiber and plastic, WPCs can also contain other ligno-cellulosic and/or inorganic filler materials. WPCs are a subset of a larger category of materials called natural fiber plastic composites (NFPCs), which may contain no cellulose-based fiber fillers such as pulp fibers, peanut hulls, bamboo, straw, digestate, etc.\n\nChemical additives seem practically \"invisible\" (except mineral fillers and pigments, if added) in the composite structure. They provide for integration of polymer and wood flour (powder) while facilitating optimal processing conditions.\n\nIn recent years, people in the flooring industry starts referring to WPC as a type of floor that has a basic structure of top vinyl veneer plus a rigid extruded core (the core can be made without any wood fiber). WPC is now an established product category within LVT. This type of WPC is different than the WPC decking and is not intended for outdoor usage.\n\nWood-plastic composites are still new materials relative to the long history of natural lumber as a building material. The most widespread use of WPCs in North America is in outdoor deck floors, but it is also used for railings, fences, landscaping timbers, cladding and siding, park benches, molding and trim, window and door frames, and indoor furniture. Wood-plastic composites were first introduced into the decking market in the early 1990s. Manufacturers claim that wood-plastic composite is more environmentally friendly and requires less maintenance than the alternatives of solid wood treated with preservatives or solid wood of rot-resistant species. These materials can be molded with or without simulated wood grain details.\n\nWood-plastic composites (WPCs) are produced by thoroughly mixing ground wood particles and heated thermoplastic resin. The most common method of production is to extrude the material into the desired shape, though injection molding is also used. WPCs may be produced from either virgin or recycled thermoplastics including HDPE, LDPE, PVC, PP, ABS, PS, and PLA. Polyethylene-based WPCs are by far the most common. Additives such as colorants, coupling agents, UV stabilizers, blowing agents, foaming agents, and lubricants help tailor the end product to the target area of application. Extruded WPCs are formed into both solid and hollow profiles. A large variety of injection molded parts are also produced, from automotive door panels to cell phone covers.\n\nIn some manufacturing facilities, the constituents are combined and processed in a pelletizing extruder, which produces pellets of the new material. The pellets are then re-melted and formed into the final shape. Other manufacturers complete the finished part in a single step of mixing and extrusion.\n\nDue to the addition of organic material, WPCs are usually processed at far lower temperatures than traditional plastics during extrusion and injection molding. WPCs tend to process at temperatures of about 50 °F (28 °C) lower than the same, unfilled material, for instance. Most will begin to burn at temperatures around 400 °F (204 °C). Processing WPCs at excessively high temperatures increases the risk of shearing, or burning and discoloration resulting from pushing a material that’s too hot through a gate which is too small, during injection molding. The ratio of wood to plastic in the composite will ultimately determine the melt flow index (MFI) of the WPC, with larger amounts of wood generally leading to a lower MFI.\n\nWPCs do not corrode and are highly resistant to rot, decay, and Marine Borer attack, though they do absorb water into the wood fibers embedded within the material. Water absorption is more pronounced in WFCs with a hydrophilic matrix such as PLA and also leads to decreased mechanical stiffness and strength. The mechanical performance in a wet environment can be enhanced by an acetylation treatment. WFCs have good workability and can be shaped using conventional woodworking tools. WPCs are often considered a sustainable material because they can be made using recycled plastics and the waste products of the wood industry. Although these materials continue the lifespan of used and discarded materials, they have their own considerable half life; the polymers and adhesives added make wood-plastic composite difficult to recycle again after use. They can however be recycled easily in a new wood-plastic composite, much like concrete. One advantage over wood is the ability of the material to be molded to meet almost any desired shape. A WPC member can be bent and fixed to form strong arching curves. Another major selling point of these materials is their lack of need for paint. They are manufactured in a variety of colors, but are widely available in grays and earth tones. Despite up to 70 percent cellulose content (although 50/50 is more common), the mechanical behavior of WPCs is most similar to neat polymers. Neat polymers are polymerized without added solvents. This means that WPCs have a lower strength and stiffness than wood, and they experience time and temperature-dependent behavior. The wood particles are susceptible to fungal attack, though not as much so as solid wood, and the polymer component is vulnerable to UV degradation. It is possible that the strength and stiffness may be reduced by freeze-thaw cycling, though testing is still being conducted in this area. Some WPC formulations are sensitive to staining from a variety of agents.\n\nWPC boards show good set of performance but monolithic composite sheets are relatively heavy (most often heavier than pure plastics) which limits their use to applications where low weight is not essential. WPC in a sandwich-structured composite form allow for combination of the benefits of traditional wood polymer composites with the lightness of a sandwich panel technology. WPC sandwich boards consist of wood polymer composite skins and usually low density polymer core which leads to a very effective increase of panel's rigidity. WPC sandwich boards are used mainly in automotive, transportation and building applications, but furniture applications are also being developed. New efficient and often in-line integrated production processes allow to produce stronger and stiffer WPC sandwich boards at lower costs compared to traditional plastic sheets or monolithic WPC panels.\n\nThe environmental impact of WPCs is directly affected by the ratio of renewable to non-renewable materials. The commonly used petroleum-based polymers have a negative environmental impact because they rely on non-renewable raw materials and the non-biodegradability of plastics.\n\nThe types of plastic normally used in WPC formulations have higher fire hazard properties than wood alone, as plastic has a higher chemical heat content and can melt. The inclusion of plastic as a portion of the composite results in the potential for higher fire hazards in WPCs as compared with wood. Some code officials are becoming increasingly concerned with the fire performance of WPCs.\n\n"}
